Provisions of general application, relating to the judges,
and certain other officers of the courts.
Article 1. General powers, duties, liabilities, and disabilities of
judges and officers acting judicially.
2. Attorneys and counsellors at law.
3. General provisions concerning certain ministerial officer?,
connected with the administration of justice ; and
special provisions concerning officers of that descrip
tion, attached to two or more courts.
ARTICLE FIRST.
General Powers, Duties, Liabilities, and Disabilities
op Judges, and Officers acting Judicially.
g 46. Judge not to sit where he is
judge not to practice in a
a party, etc., or has not
cause which has been beheard argument.
fore him.
47. Judge not to be interested
\ 51. Judge not to take fees for
in costs.
advice in certain cases.
48. Disability of judge in cer52. Substitution of one officer
tain appeals.
for another in special
49. Judge or judge's partner
proceeding.
not to practice in his
53. Proceedings before subcourt,
stituted officer.
50. Judge's partner or clerk not
54. Judge to file certificate of
to practice before him;
age, etc.
23 Stat
§ ^®* L-Aw'd 1883.] A judge shall not sit as such in, or
Ke e799 take any part in the decision of, a cause or matter to which he
6 Dem. 12. ' 's a Party; or in which he has been attorney or counsel, or in
114N.Y.439. which he is interested, or if he is related by consanguinity or
affinity to any party to the controversy within the sixth
degree. The degree shall be ascertained by ascending from
the judge to the common ancestor ; and descending to the
Sarty, counting a degree for each person in both lines, indu
ing tne judge and party, and excluding the common ancestor.
A judge, other than a judge of the court of appeals, shall not
decide, or take part in the decision of a question which was
argued orally in the court, when he was not present and sit
ting therein as a judge.
§ 47. A judge shall not, directly or indirectly, be inter
ested in the costs of an action or special proceeding, brought
before him, or in a court of which he is, or is entitled to act as
a member, except an action or a special proceeding to which he
is a party, or in which he is interested.
§ 48. Where an appeal has been taken to a court of ses
sions, in which a town in the county is interested, a justice of
the peace, who is a resident of that town, shall not sit as a
justice of sessions, upon the hearing of the appeal. Except as
specified in this section, a judge of a court of record is not dis
qualified, from hearing or deciding an action or special pro
ceeding, matter, or question, by reason of his being a resident
or a tax-payer of a town, village, city, or county, interested
therein.
§ 49. A judge shall not practice or act as an attorney or
counsellor, in a court of which he is, or is entitled to act as a
member, or in a cause originating in that court. A law partner
of, or person connected in law business with a judge, shall not
practice or act as an attorney or counsellor, in a court, of
which the judge is, or is entitled to act as a member, or in a
cause originating in that court; except where the latter is a member of a court, ex-offlcio, and does not officiate or take
part, as a member of that court, in any of the proceedings
therein. An ex-offlcio judge shall not, directly or indirectly,
be interested in the costs, or the compensation of an attorney
or counsellor, in the court of which he is ex-offlcio a judge.
§ 50. lAm'd 1877.] The law partner or clerk of a judge
shall not practice before him, as attorney or counsellor in any
cause, or be employed in any cause which originated before
him. A judge shall not act as attorney or counsellor in anv
action or special proceeding, which has been before him in his
official character.
§ 51. A judge or other judicial officer, shall not demand
or receive a fee or other compensation for giving his advice
in a matter or thing pending before him, or which he has rea
son to believe will be brought before him for decision ; or for
preparing a paper or other proceeding, relating to such a mat
ter or thing ; except a justice of the peace, in a case where a
fee is expressly allowed to him by law.
§ 52. In case of the death, sickness, resignation, removal
from office, absence from the county, or other disability of an
officer, before whom a special proceeding has been instituted,
where no express provision is made by law for the continuance
thereof, it may be continued before the officer's successor, or
any other officer residing in the same county, before whom it
might have been originally instituted ; or, if there is no such
officer in the same county, before an officer in an adjoining
county, who would originally have had jurisdiction of the sub
ject-matter, if it had occurred or existed 111 the latter county.
§ 53. At the time and place specified in a notice or order,
for a party to appear, or for any other proceeding to be
taken, or at the time and place specified in the notice to be
given, as prescribed in this section, the officer substituted as
{irescribed in the last section, or in any other provision of
aw, to continue a special proceeding instituted before another,
may act, with respect to the special proceeding, as if it had
been originally instituted before him. But a proceeding shall
not be taken before a substituted officeer, at a time or place,
other than that specified in the original notice or order, until
notice of the substitution, and of the time and place appointed
for the proceeding to be taken, has been given, either r>y per
sonal service or by publication, in such manner and for
such time as the substituted officer directs, to each party
who may be effected [affected] thereby, and who has not
appeared before either officer. Where, after a hearing
has been commenced, it is adjourned to the next judicial day,
each day to which it is so adjourned, is regarded, for the pur
poses of this section, as the day specified in the original notice
or order, or in the notice to appear before the substituted
officer, as the case requires.
§ 54. A judge of a court of record must, within ten days
after he enters on the duties of his office, make and sign a cer
tificate, stating his age, and the time when his official term
will expire, either by completion of a full term, or by reason
of the disability of age, prescribed in the constitution. The
certificate must be filed in the office of the Secretary of State,
who must keep a record of the time of the commencement
and termination of the official term, of each judge of a court
of record.
§ 55. A party to a civil action, who is of full age, may
prosecute or defend the same in person or by attorney, at his
election, unless he has been judicially declared to be incompe
tent to manage his affairs. Each provision of this act,
relating to the conduct of an action, wherein the attorney for
the party is mentioned, includes a party prosecuting or defendingin person, unless otherwise specially prescribedtherein,
or unless that construct ion is manifestly repugnant to the
context. If a party has an attorney in the action, he cannot
appear to act in person, where an attorney may appear or
act, either by special provision of law, or by the course and
practice of the court.
§ 58. [Am'd 1880.] A citizen of the State, of full age,
hereafter applying to be admitted to practice as an attorney
or counsellor in tiie courts of record of the State, must be
examined at a general term of the supremo court by the
1'ustices holding the term, or a committee appointed by them,
f it is found that such person has complied with the rules
established by the court of appeals for that purpose, and
such person is approved by the justices holding the term, for
good character and learning, the court must direct an order
to be entered, stating those facts, and admitting such person
to practice as an attorney and counsellor in all the courts of
record of the State. Whereupon, after qualifying as pre
scribed in section fifty-nine of this act, such person is entitled
to practice accordingly; subject, nevertheless, to suspension
or removal from office, as prescribed by law. The race or
Bex of such person shall constitute no cause for refusing such
person admission to practice in the courts of record in this
State as an attorney and counsellor.
§ 57. The rules established by the court of appeals, touch
ing the admission of attorneys and counsellors to practice in
the courts of record of the State, shall not be changed or amended, except by a majority of the judges of that court.
A copy of each amendment of those rules must, within Hve
days after it is adopted, be filed in the office of the Secretary
of State ; who must transmit a printed copy thereof to the
clerk of each county, and to the presiding justice of the
supreme court, in each judicial department, and also cause
the same to be published, in the next ensuing volume of the
session laws.
§ 58. [AnVd 1877.] Nothing contained in the last two
sections prevents the court of appeals from dispensing, in the
rules established by it, with the whole or any part of the
stated period of clerkship, required from an applicant, or
with an examination, where the applicant is a graduate of
the Albany law school, the law department of Union Univer •
sity, or of the law department of the University of the city of
New York, or of the law school of Columbia College, or of
the law department of Hamilton College, and produces his
diploma upon his application for admission.
§ 59. Each person, admitted as prescribed in the last
three sections, must, upon his admission, take the Constitu
tional oath of office in open court, and subscribe the same in a
roll or book, to be kept in the supreme court for that purpose.
The clerk, upon the payment of the fees allowed W law,
must deliver to the person admitted, a certificate under his
hand and official seal, stating that such person has been so
admitted, and that he has taken and subscribed the Constitu
tional oath of office, as prescribed in this section.
§ 60. A person, regularly admitted to practice as attor
ney and counsellor, in the courts of record of the State,
whose office for the transaction of law business is within the
State, may practice as such attorney or counsellor, although
he resides in an adjoining State. But service of a paper,
which might be made upon him at his residence, if he was a
resident of the State, may be made upon him, by depositing
the paper in a post-office in the city or town where his office is
located, properly inclosed in a post-paid wrapper, directed to
him at his office. A service thus made is equivalent to per
sonal service upon him.
§ 61. The clerk, deputy-clerk, or special deputy-clerk of a
court shall not, during his continuance in office, practice as
attorney or counsellor in that court.
§ 62. A sheriff, under-sheriff, deputy-sheriff, sheriff's clerk,
constable, coroner, crier, or attendant of a court, shall not,
during his continuance in office, practice as an attorney or
counsellor in any court.
§ 63. [ArrCd 1879.] A person shall not ask or receive, ,
_
directly or indirectly, compensation for appearing as attor- « , ?• , on"
ney in a court in the city and county of New York, or in the
'
eounty of Kings, or make it a business to practice as an at
torney in a court in either of those counties, unless he has been
regularly admitted to practice, as an attorney or counsellor
iu the courts of record of the State.
§ 64. A person who violates the last section is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be punished by imprisonment in the • , ?' , on'
county jail, not exceeding one month, or by a fine of not less
'
'
than one hundred dollars, or more than two hundred and fifty
dollars, or by both such fine and imprisonment. A judge or justice of the peace, within the city and county of New York,
or the county of Kings, who knowingly permits to practice in
iiis court, a person who has not been regularly admitted to
practice in the courts of record of the State, is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be punished as prescribed in this sec
tion. But this and the last section do not apply to a case,
where a person appears in a cause to which he is a party.
§ 65. If au attorney dies, is removed or suspended, or
17 Civ. Pro. otherwise becomes disabled to act, at any time before judg86ment in an action, no further proceeding shall be taken in the
action, against the party for whom he appeared, until thirty
days after notice to appoint another attorney, has been given
to that party, either personally, or in such other manner as
the court directs.
Id "no '
6ii How. Pr.
488.
3 Civ. Pro.
1*1.
i?'aSi' n
C 114
30 Hun 521.
65' How.' Pr!
465.

§ 66. [Am'd 1879.] The compensation of an attorney or
counsellor for his services, is governed by agreement, express
or implied, which is not restrained bylaw. From the commencement of an action or the service of an answer containing a counterclaim, the attorney who appears for a party has
a Hen upon his client's cause of action or counterclaim, which
attaches to a verdict, report, decision or judgment in his
client's favor and the proceeds thereof in whosoever hands
they may come ; and cannot be affected by any settlement
between the parties before or after judgment.
07 How. Pr. 267 ; 3 How. Pr. N. S. 373 ; 54 Super. Ct. (J. & S.) 477 : 13
Civ. Pro. 32; 112 N. Y. 167; 12 N. Y. State Rep. 117; 25 Id; 559; 2
Dem. 466.

§ 67. {Am'd 1800, 1801.] An attorney and counsellor,
2« N Y
wno *s S11'"^ °* any deceit, malpractice, crime or mis
state Rep. demeanor, or, wlio is guilty of any fraud or deceit in pro641. ceedings by which he was admitted to practice as an attorney
and counsellor of the courts of record of this State, may be
•
suspended from practice, or removed from office, by the
supreme court, at a general term thereof. Any person being
an attorney and counsellor-at-law, who shall be convicted of a
felony, shall, upon such conviction, cease to be an attorney and
counsellor-at-law, or to be competent to practice law as such.
Whenever any attorney and counsellor-at-law shall be con
victed of a felony there may be presented to the general term
of the supreme court a certified or exemplified copy of the
judgment of such conviction, and thereupon the name of the
person so convicted shall, by order of the court, be stricken
from the roll of attorneys. Upon a reversal of such convic
tion, or pardon by the president of the United States or
governor of this State, the general term shall have power to
vacate or modify such order of debarment.
§ 68. [Am'd 1800.] Before an attorney or counsellor is
112N.Y.157. suspended
or removed as prescribed in the last section, a copy
of the charges against him must be delivered to him, and he
must be allowed an opportunity of being heard in his de
fence. The presiding justice of the general term making the
order of reference in such charges may make an order direct
ing the expenses of such proceedings to be paid out of any
monies applicable thereto.
§ 69. The suspension or removal of an attorney or coun
sellor, by the supreme court, operates as a suspension or re
moval in every court of the State.
§ 70. An attorney or counsellor, who is guilty of any de
ceit or collusion, or consents to any deceit or collusion, with
intent to deceive the court or a party, forfeits to the party injured by his deceit or collusion, treble damages. He is also
guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 71. An attorney or counsellor, who willfully delays his
ient's cause, with a view to his own gain, or willfully receives
money, or an allowance for or on account of money, which
he has not laid out or become answerable for, forfeits to the
party injured, treble damages.
§ 72. If an attorney knowingly permits a person, not being his general law partner, or a clerk in his office, to sue out
a mandate, or to prosecute or defend an action in his name,
he, and the person who so uses his name, each forfeits to the
party, against whom the mandate has been sued out, or the
action prosecuted or defended, the sum of fifty dollars, to be
recovered in an action.
§ 73. An attorney or counsellor shall not, directly or indirectly, buy, or be in any manner interested in buying, a
bond, promissory note, bill of exchange, book-debt, or other
thing in action, with the intent and for the purpose of bringing
an action thereon.
§ 74. [Am'd 1879.] An attorney or counsellor shall not,
by himself, or by or in the name of another person, either be
fore or after action brought, promise or give, or procure to be
promised or given, a valuable consideration to any person, as
an inducement to placing, or in consideration of having placed,
in his hands, or in the hands of another person, a demand of
any kind, for the purpose of bringing an action thereon. But
this section does not apply to an agreement between attorneys
and counsellors, or either, to divide between themselves the
compensation to be received.
§ 75. An attorney or counsellor, who violates either of
the last two sections, is guilty of a misdemeanor; and, on conviction thereof, shall be punished accordingly, and must be
removed from office by the supreme court.
§ 76. The last three sections do not prohibit the receipt,
by an attorney or counsellor, of a bond, promissory note, bill
of exchange, book-debt, or other thing in action, in payment
for property sold, or for services, actually rendered, or for a
debt antecedently contracted ; or from buying or receiving a
bill of exchange, draft, or other thing in action, for the pur
pose of remittance, and without intent to violate either of those
sections.
§ 77. The last four sections apply to a person prosecuting
an action in person, who does an act, which an attorney or
counsellor is therein forbidden to do.
§ 78. An attorney or counsellor shall not, directly or in
directly, advise concerning, aid, or take any part in, the defense
of an action or special proceeding, civil or criminal, brought,
carried on, aided, advocated, or prosecuted as AttorneyGeneral, district-attorney, or other public prosecutor, by
a person with whom he is interested or connected, either di
rectly or indirectly, as a law partner ; or take or receiue, di
rectly or indirectly, from a defendant therein, or other person,
a fee, gratuity, or reward, for or upon any cause, considera
tion, pretense, understanding, or agreement whatever, either
express or implied, having relat on thereto, or to the prosecu
tion or defense thereof.
§ 79. An attorney or counsellor, who has brought, car
ried on, aided, advocated, or prosecuted, or has been in any
wise connected with, an action or special proceeding, civil or
criminal, as Attorney-General, district-attorney, or other pub
lic prosecutor, shall not, at any time thereafter, directly or
indirectly, advise concerning, aid, or take any part in, the de
fence thereof; or take or receive, either directly or indirectly,
from a defendant therein, or other person, a fee, gratuity, or
reward, for or upon any cause, consideration, pretense, under
standing, or agreement, either express or implied, having re
lation thereto, or to the prosecution or defense thereof.
§ 80. An attorney or counsellor, who violates either of
the last two sections, is guilty of a misdemeanor; and, on
conviction thereof, shall be punished accordingly, and must be
removed from office by the supreme court.
§ 81. This article does not prohibit an attorney or counsel
lor from defending himself in person, if prosecuted either
civilly or criminally.
General Provisions concerning certain Ministerial
Officers, connected with the Admistration of
Justice ; and special Provisions concerning Officers
of that Description, attached to Two or more Courts.
$ 82. Qualifications of stenogg 90. Certain assistants not to be
rapher.
appointed referees, re83. General duty of stenogceiversorcommissionera
rapher; notes, when to
91. Criers; county judges exbe filed.
cept in Kings to appoint.
§ 82. Each stenographer, specified in this act, is an officer
of the court or courts, for or by which he is appointed ; and,
before entering upon the discharge of his duties, must sub
scribe the Constitutional oath of office, and file the same in
the office of the clerk of the court, or, in the supreme court,
in the office of the clerk of the county where the term sits, or
the judge resides, by which or by whom he is appointed. A
person shall not be appointed to the office of stenographer,
unless he is skilled in the stenographic art.
"^un,144.
§ 83. Each stenographer, specified in this act, must, under
tne direction of the judge, presiding at or holding the term or
sitting which he attends, take full stenographic notes of the
testimony, and of all other proceedings, in each cause tried
or heard thereat, except when the judge dispenses with his
services in a particular cause, or with respect to a portion of the proceedings therein. The court, or a judge thereof, may
in its or his discretion, upon or without an application for that
purpose, make an order, directing the stenograper to file
with the clerk, forthwith or within a specified time, the origi
nal stenographic notes, taken upon a trial or heating ; where
upon the stenographer must file the same accordingly.
§ 84. The original stenographic notes, taken by a steno- £7{I.un'!**!
grapher, are part of the proceedings in the cause ; and, unless 30 Id- 4sr'they are filed, pursuant to an order, made as prescribed in
the last section, they must bo carefully preserved by the
stenographer, for two years after the trial or hearing ; at the
expiration of which tune he may destroy the same. If the
stenographer dies, or his office becomes otherwise vacant,
before the expiration of that time, they must be delivered t>i
his successor in office, to be held by him with like effect, as if
they had been taken by him. They must be written out at
length by the stenographer, if a judge of the court so directs,
or if the stenographer is required so to do, by a person en
titled by law to a copy of the same, so written out. Unless
such a direction is given, or such a requisition is made, the
stenographer is not bound so to write them out.
§ 85. Each stenographer, specified in this act, must, upon
request, furnish, with all reasonable diligence and without
charge, to the judge holding a term or sitting, which he has
attended, a copy written out at length from his stenographic
notes, of the testimony and proceedings, or a part thereof, upon
a trial or hearing, at that term or sitting. But this section
does not affect a provision of law, authorizing the judge to
direct a party or the parties to an action or special proceed
ing, or the county treasurer, to pay the stenographer's fees
for such a copy.
Ji 86. Each stenographer, specified in this act, must like
wise, upon request, furnish, with all reasonable diligence, to
the defendant in a criminal cause, or a party, or his attorney
in a civil cause, in which he has attended the trial or hearing.
a copy, written out at length from his stenographic notes, ol
the testimony and proceedings, or a part Siereof, upon the
trial or hearing, upon payment, by the person requiring the
same, of the fees allowed by law. If the district-attorney or
the Attorney-General requires such a copy, in a criminal
cause, the stenographer is entitled to his fees therefore ; but ho
must furnish it, upon receiving a certificate of the sum to
which he is so entitled ; which shall be a county charge, and
must be paid by the county treasurer, upon a certificate, like
other county charges.
§ 87. The provisions of the last five sections are also ap
plicable to each assistant-stenographer, now in office, or
appointed or employed, pursuant to any provision of this act ;
except that the stenographic notes, taken by an assistantstenographer, must, if he dies or his office becomes otherwise
vacant, be delivered to the stenographer, to be held by him
with like effect, as if they had been taken by him.
8 88. The board of supervisors of each county must povide for the payment of the sums, chargeable upon the treas
ury of the county, for the salary, fees, or expenses of a
stenographer or assistant stenographer ; and all laws relating
to raising money in a county, by the board of supervisors
thereof, are applicable to those sums.
§ 89. [Am'd 1870.] Each county clerk may, from time to
time, by an instrument in writing, filed in his office, appoint,
and at pleasure remove, one or more special deputy-clerks, to
attend upon any or all of the terms or sittings of the courts of
which he is clerk. Each person so appointed must, before he
enters upon the duties of his office, subscribe, and file in the
Clerk's office, the Constitutional oath of office ; and he pos
sesses the same power and authority as the clerk, at any
sitting or term of the court which ho attends, with respect to
the business transacted thereat.
§ 90. [Am'd 1877.] No person holding the office of clerk,
deputy clerk, special deputy clerk, or assistant in the clerk's
Office, of a court of record or of the surrogate's court, within
either of the counties of New York or Kings, shall hereafter
be appointed, by any court or judge, a referee, receiver or
commissioner, except by the written consent of all the parties
to the action or special proceeding, other than parties in de
fault for failure to appear or to plead.
§ 91. [AnCd 1883.] The county judge of each county, ex
cept Kings, from time to time, may appoint, and at pleasure
remove, a crier for the courts of record held in his county ;
who is entitled to a compensation, fixed and to be paid as
prescribed by law.
§92. A sheriff, deputy-sheriff, or constable, attending a
term of a court of record, must, when required by the court,
act as crier therein ; and he is not entitled to any additional
compensation for that service.
§ 93. {Am'd 1884, 1889, 1890, 1891.] The judges or a ma
jority of them of each of the following named courts, towit : The supreme court within the first judicial district,
the court of common pleas for the city and county of New
York, and the superior court of the city of New York, from
time to time, may appoint and at pleasure remove such atten
dants upon the court of which they are respectively members,
including, where the justices of the supreme court make the
appointment, the circuit court, and the court of oyer and
terminer, as they think necessary for the due transaction of
the business thereof, not exceeding five attendants for each
part and four for the general term. The justices of the
supreme court within the first judicial district may, upon the
request of any justice, designate one of the said court atten
dants to also act as clerk of such justice for such time ns they
may designate, and the attendant so designated shall receive
but one salary for his services as both attendant and justice's
clerk, to be fixed by the board of estimate and apportionment
of the city of New York. The justices of the supreme court
for the first judicial district or a majority thereof may appoint,
and at their pleasure remove, an official interpreter of the
said court, who shall be entitled to receive a salary of two
thousand five hundred dollars per annum, and to be paid as
prescribed by law. Before entering upon his official duties,
he must subscribe and file in the office of the clerk of the city
and county of New York the constitutional oath of office.
He must attend any court or before any justice where his
services are required, and the justices of the court, or a
majority of them, may, by order, regulate his attendance.
§ 94. [Am'd 1877.] The board of supervisors of the
county of Kings may appoint an interpreter, to attend the
terms of the courts of record, except the county court, held in
that county, at which issues of fact are triable ; who shall
hold his office during good behavior.
§ 95. The following judges, to wit: the justices of the
supreme court for the second judicial district, residing in
Kings county, or a majority of them ; the judges of the city
court of Brooklyn, or a majority of them ; the county judge of Kings county ; and the surrogate of Kings county ; may des
ignate how many attendants and messengers, for the appoint
ment of whom no provision is otherwise made by law, are
required to attend upon the the terms and sittings of the
courts, of which they are respectively members ; including,
where the justices of the supreme court make the designation,
the circuit court and court of oyer and terminer. Notice of
each designation must be given to the sheriff of Kings county,
by the clerk of the court. The sheriff must thereupon appoint
as many qualified persons, to fill those offices for each court,
as the judges thereof have designated. The number of those
officers may, from time to time, be increased or diminished,
and new appointments may be made, in like manner. A i>erson so appointed may be removed from office, by the judge of
the court to which he is assigned ; or, if he is assigned to the
supreme court, or the city court of Brooklyn, by a majority of
the judges ; and the sheriff shall not re-appoint, for the same
court, a person so removed.
§ 90. Each of the persons, appointed as prescribed in the
last section, must attend, from day to day, the terms and sit
tings, within the county of Kings, of the court to which he is
assigned, to preserve order, and to perform whatever services
may be required of him, by the judge presiding thereat.
§ 97. The sheriff of each county, except New York and
Ki'n°^, must, within a reasonable time before the sitting, in
his county, of a special term of the supreme court, or a term
of the circuit court, county court, court of oyer and terminer,
or court of sessions, notify, in writing and personally, as many
constables of his county, 'as he has been directed to notify, by
the court, or the judge who is to hold or preside at the term,
to appear and attend upon the term, during its sitting.
§ 98. If such a direction has not been given by the court
or the judge, the sheriff may in like manner notify as many
constables, as he deems necessary, for the purposes specified
in the last section.
§ 99. Each constable seasonably notified, as prescribed in
the last two sections, must attend the term accordingly ; and
for each day's neglect, he may be fined by the court, at the
term which he was notified to attend, a sum not exceeding
five dollars.
§ 100. A sheriff, to whom a mandate of any description,
is delivered to be executed, must, without compensation, give
to the person delivering the same, if required, a minute in
writing, signed by the sheriff, specifying the names of the
parties, the general nature of the mandate, and the day and
hour of receiving the same.
§ 101. [Am'd 1877.] A sheriff or other officer, serving a
mandate, must, upon the request of the person served, deliver
to him a copy thereof; without compensation.
§ 102. [Ain'd 1877.] A sheritt, or other officer, to whom
a mandate is directed and delivered, must execute the same
according to the command thereof, and make return thereon
of his proceedings, under his hand. For a violation of this
provision, he is liable to the party aggrieved, for the dam
ages sustained by hint ; in addition to any fine, or other pun
ishment or proceeding, authorized by law. A mandate
directed and delivered to a sheriff may be returned, by deposit
ing the same in the post-office, properly enclosed in a post
paid-wrapper, addressed to the clerk, at the place where his
office is situated ; unless the officer, making the return in the
name of the sheriff, resides in the place where the clerk's
office is situated.
§ 103. [Ani'd 1877.] A sheriff, or other officer, to whom is
delivered, for service or execution, a mandate, authorized by
law to be issued, by a judge or other officer, in a special pro
ceeding, who willfully neglects to execute the same, may lie
fined by the judge, in a sum not exceeding twenty-five dollars,
and is liable to the party aggrieved, for his damages sustained
thereby.
§ 104. If a sheriff, to whom a mandate is directed and
delivered, finds, or has reason to apprehend, that resistance
will be made to the execution thereof, he may command all
the male persons in his county, or as many as he thinks proper,
and with such arms as he directs, including any military
organization armed and equipped, to assist him in overcoming
the resistance, and, if necessary, in arresting and confining
the resisters, tlieir aiders and abettors, to be dealt with accord
ing to law.
§ 105. The sheriff must certify to the court, from which
or by whose authority the mandate was issued, the names of
the resisters, their aiders and abettors, as far as he can ascer
tain the same, to the end that they may be punished for their
contempt of the court. .
i; 106. A person, commanded by a sheriff to assist him, as prescribed in the last section but one. who, without lawful
cause, refuses, or neglects to obey the command, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
§ lOT. If it appears to the Governor, that the power of a
county will not be sufficient, to enable the sheriffthereof to
serve or ex cute the process or other mandates, delivered to
him, he must, on the application of the sheriff order such a
military force, from another county or counties, as is necessary.
§ 108. [Am'd 1879.] Where it is especially prescribed by
law, that a sheriff must, or may, in his discretion, empanel a
jury to try the validity of a claim or title to, or of the right of
possession of goods or effects, seized by him by virtue of a
mandate in an action, interposed by a person not a party to the
action, the trial must be conducted in the following manner,
except as otherwise specially provided by law:
1. The sheriff must, from time to time, notify as many per
sons to attend, as it is necessary, in order to form a jury of
twelve persons, qualified to serve as trial jurors in the county
court of the county, or, in the city and county of Sew Yors,
hrfhe court of common pleas for that city and county, to try
the validity of the claim.
2. Upon the trial, witnesses may be examined, in behalf of
the claimant, and of the party, at whose instance the property
claimed was taken by the sheriff. For the purpose of com
pelling a witness to attend and testify, the sheriff, upon the ap
plication of either party to the inquisition, must issue a subpoena,
us prescribed in section eight hundred and fifty-four of this
act, and with like effect ; except that a warrant to apprehend
or to commit a witness, in a case specified in section eight
hundred and fifty-five or section eight hundred and fiftysix of this act, may be issued by a judge of the court in which
the action is brought^ or by the county judge, or, in the city
and county of New \ ork, by a judge of the court of common
pleas fur that city and county.
3. The sheriff or under sheriff must preside upon the trial.
A witness, produced by cither party, must be sworn by the
presiding officer, and examined orally in the presence of the
jury. A witness, who testifies falsely upon such an examina
tion, is guilty of perjury in a like case, and is punishable in
like manner, as upon the trial of a civil action.
§ lOQ. Upon such a trial there are no costs- but the fees of
the sheriff, jurors, and witnesses must be taxed, bv a judge of
the court, or the county judge of the county, or, in the city
and county of New York, by a judge of the court of common
pleas for that city and county, and must be paid as follows :
1. If the jury, by their verdict, find the title, or the right of
l>ossession to the property claimed, to be in the claimant ; by
the party at whose instance the property was taken by the
sheriff.
2. If they find adversely to the claimant, with respect to all
the property claimed ; by the claimant.
H. If they find the title, or the right of ])ossession to only a
part of the property claimed, to be in the claimant ; each
party must pay his own witnesses' fees ; and the sheriff's and
jurors1 fees must be paid, one-half by each party to the in
quisition.
Before notifying the jurors, the sheriff may, in his discre
tion, require each of the parties to the controversy to deposit
with him such reasonable sum, as may be necessary to cover
his legal fees, and the jurors' fees. The sheriff must return to each party the balance of the sum so deposited by him, after
deducting the fees, lawfully chargeable to that party, as pre
scribed in this section.
§ 110. A person arrested, by virtue of an order of ar
rest, in an action or special proceeding brought in a court of
record ; or of an execution issued upon a judgment rendered
in a court of record ; or surrendered in exoneration of his bail ;
must be safely kept in custody, in the manner prescribed by
law, and, except as otherwise prescribed in the next two sec
tions, at his own expense, until he satisfies the judgment ren
dered against him, or is discharged according to law.
§ 111. [Am'd 1886.] No person shall be imprisoned within the prison walls of any jail for a longer period than three
months under an execution or any other mandate against the
I>erson *° enforce the recovery of a sum of money less
tnan ^ve hundred dollars in amount or under a commitment upon a fine for contempt of court in the non-payment
°f alimony or counsel fees in a divorce case where the
amount so to be paid is less than the sum of Ave hundred dol
lars ; and where the amount in either of said cases is five
hundred dollars or over, such imprisonment shall not continue
for a longer period than six months. It shall bo the duty of
the sheriff in whose custody any such person is held to dis
charge such person at the expiration of said respective peri
ods without any formal application being made therefore. No
person shall be imprisoned within the jail liberties of any jail for
a longer period than six months upon any execution or other
mandate against the person, and no action shall be commenced
against the sheriff upon a bond given for the jail liberties by
such person to secure the benefits of such liberties, as provid
ed in articles fourth and fifth of this title for an escape made
after the expiration of six months' imprisonment as aforesaid.
Nothwithstanding such a discharge in either of the above ca
ses, the judgment creditor in the execution, or the person at
whose instance the said mandate was issued, has the same
remedy against the property of the person imprisoned which
he had before such execution or mandate was issued ; but the prisoner shall not be again imprisoned upon a like process
issued in the same action or arrested in any action upon any
judgment under which the same may have been granted. Ex
cept in a case hereinbefore specified nothing in this section
shall effect a commitment for contempt of court.
§ 112. [Am'd 1883.] In any county, if a prisoner, actual- »* Hun, 528.
ly confined in jail, makes oath before the sheriff, jailor, or
deputy-jailor, that he is unable to support himself duriug his
imprisonment, his support shall be a county charge.
§ 1 13. A sheriff or other officer shall not charge a person,
whom he has arrested, with any sum of money, or demand, or
receive from him money, or any valuable thing, for any drink,
victuals, or other thing, furnished or provided for the officer,
or for the prisoner, at any tavern, ale-house, or public victual
ing, or drinking-house.
§ 114. A sheriff or other officer shall not demand or re
ceive from a person, arrested by him, while in his custody, a
gratuity or reward, upon any pretense, for keeping a prisoner
out of jail ; for going with him or waiting for him to find bail,
or to agree with his adversary ; or for any other purpose.
§ 115. If a person arrested is kept in a house other than
the jail of the county, the officer arresting him, or the person
in whose custody he is, shall not demand or receive from him
any greater sum, for lodging, drink, victuals, or any other
thing, than has been theretofore prescribed by the court of
sessions of the county; or, if no rate has been prescribed by
the court of sessions, than is allowed by a justice of the peace
of the same town or city, upon proof that the lodging or other
thing was actually furnished, at the request of the prisoner.
And such an officer or person shall not, in any case or upon
any pretext, demand or receive compensation for strong,
spirituous, or fermented liquor, or wine, sold or delivered to
the prisoner.
§ 1 16. A prisoner so kept in a house, may send for and
have beer, ale, cider, tea, coffee, milk, and necessary food,
and such bedding, linen and other necessary things, as he
thinks fit, from whom he pleases, without detention of the
same or any part thereof by, or paying for the same, or any
part thereof to, the officer arresting him, or the person in
whose custody he is.
§ 117. A sheriff, jailor, or other officer, shall not demand
or receive money, or any valuable thing, for chamber rent in a
jail ; or any fee, compensation, or reward, for the commit
ment, detaining in custody, release, or discharge of a prisoner,
other than the fees expressly allowed therefore by law.
§ 118. A sheriff or other officer, who has lawfully arrest
ed a prisoner, may convey his prisoner through one or more
other counties, in the ordinary route of travel, from the place
where the prisoner was arrested, to the place where he is to
be delivered or confined.
§ 1 19. A prisoner so conveyed, or the officer having him
in custody, is not liable to arrest in any civil action or special
proceeding, while passing through another county
§ 120. The building, now used as a jail in the city of New
York, for the confinement of prisoners in civil causes, shall
continue to be the jail of the city and county of New York, for
the confinement of such persons; and the sheriff of the city
and county of New York shall have have the custody thereof,
and of the prisoners in the same.
§ 121. The buildings, now used as the jails of the other
counties of the State, shall continue to be the jails of those
counties respectively, until other buildings have been designa
ted or erected for that purpose, according to law ; and the
sheriff of each county shall have the custody of the jail or jails
of his county, and of the prisoners in the same.
§ 122. The sheriff of a county, in which there is more than
one jail, may confine a prisoner in either ; and may remove
him from one jail to another, within the county, whenever he
deems it necessary for his safe keeping, or for his appearance
at court.
§ 123. A prisoner, arrested in a civil cause, must not be
kept in a room, in which any prisoner, detained on a criminal
charge or conviction, is confined.
§ 124. Male and female prisoners must not be put in the
same room ; except that a husband and his wife may be put
or kept together, in a room wherein there are no other prison
ers.
8 125. A sheriff, or other officer, who willfully violates any
of the foregoing provisions of this title, forfeits to the person
aggrieved, treble damages. He is also guilty of a misdemean
or, and shall be punished accordingly. A conviction also ope
rates as a forfeiture of his office.
§ 1 26. The board of supervisors of each county, except
New York, must appoint some reputable physician, duly au
thorized to practice medicine, as the physician to the jail of
the county. If there is more than one jail they must appoint
a physician to each. The common council of the city of New
York must appoint a similar physician, to the jail of that city
and county. The physician to a jail holds his office at the
pleasure of the board which appointed him, except in the
county of Kings. In that county, the term of his office is three
years.
§ 127. If the physician to a jail, or, in case of a vacancy,
a physician acting as such, and the warden or jailor, certify
in writing, that a prisoner, confined in the jail in a civil cause,
is in such a state of bodily health, that his life will be endaogered, unless he is removed to a hospital for trealmug. tke
county judge, or, in the city and county it Sf» Y'"-eifc. ■»► *<
the judges of the court of common pieas. n*x«t. 35*^0 ufwition, make an order, directing the removal of -x* pr»i«.««r »
a hospital within the county, designated by tee- ?*Lz~ . '-r. J
there is none, to such nearest b^pitj as tt>e .'. i^~ : "»t:t*;
that the prisoner be kept in the custody of tbe <:i_-: "^ t - . f
the hospital, until he has sufficiently recov.?~i fr v. t_s _1ness, to be safely returned to the jail : that ux c-^^i -*:»r :f
the hospital then notify the warden or jaL-i-r. a&i \-^-.z iiie fil
ter thereupon resume custody of the praui«r. if -.or fr.-. ter
actually escapes, while going to. rema.Ti — g al. or rv:.-.-^.u2
from the hospital, a new execution may be i=e»=*i as?u£££ i«s
Eerson, if he was in custody by virtue of an eieccEa-.n ; <r. if
e was in custody by virtue of an order of arrest, a c-ttt -.r^ier
of arrest may be granted, upon proof by af&iivr: ■: f ti>? 'itSL*
specified in this section, witbimt other pro>-f. aoi ■m-zi&.m aa
undertaking.
§ 1 28. Strong, spirituous, or fermented &;->",r, cr ^ri»«>,
shall not, on any pretense, be sold within a hrr :*?--■? u*^*i ae*i
established as a jaiL Spirituous, fermented or <r.z*x u. jr.
except cider, and that quality of beer caued tabte-oeer. -ri.1
not be brought into a jail for the use of a per*o ot-j»i
therein, without a written permit by the phyaciao to a* ja^i,
which must be delivered to and kept by tbe keeper -±r-r*f,%
specifying the quantity and kind of liquor whieh may be f jrnished, the name of the prisoner for whom, a&d t&e \±zuc auring which the same may be furnished.
§ 129. Such a permit shall not be granted tn>5e«* tbe
physician is satisfied, that the liquor allowed to be fcnmfced
is necessary for the health of the prisoner, for who* use it is
permitted and that fact must be stated in the permit.
§ 1 30. A person who brings into or sells in a jail, stror^j,
spirituous, fermented, or other liquor, or wine, coctmry to toe
foregoing provisions of this article ; or a sheriff, keeper of a
jail, assistant-keeper, or an officer, or person emploved in or
about a jail, who knowingly suffers liquor or wine to be =<,Id or
used therein, contrary to this article, is guilty of a misde
meanor, and shall be punished accordingly. A convictioa also
operates as a forfeiture of his office.
§ 131. A sheriff or jailer, upon whom a paper in an action
or"special proceeding, directed to a prisoner in his custody, is ji ^bb.
lawfully served, or to whom such a paper is delivered for a c. 17i.
prisoner, must, within two days thereafter, deliver the same
to the prisoner, with a note thereon of the time of tbe service
thereof upon, or the receipt thereof by him. For a neglect or
violation of this section, the sheriff or jailor, guilty thereof, is
liable to the prisoner for all damages occasioned thereby.
§ 132. Subject to reasonable regulations, which the sher
iff may establish for that jxirpose, a sheriff, jailor, or other of « Hun. 179.
ficer, who has the custody of a prisoner, must permit such
access to him as is necessary, for the i>crsoiial service of a
paper in an action or special proceeding, to which the prison
er is a pally, and which must be personally served.
§ 133. A sheriff must receive into his jail and keep a pris
oner, committed to the same, by virtue of civil process issued
bv a court of record, instituted under the authority of the
Tjnited States, until he. is discharged by the due course of the laws of the United States, in the same manner as if he •was
committed by virtue of a mandate in a civil action, issued from
a court of the State. The sheriff may receive, to his own use,
the money payable by the United States for the use of the
jail.
§ 134. A sheriff, or jailer, to whose jail a prisoner is com
mitted, as prescribed in the last section, is answerable for his
safe keeping, in the courts of the United States, according to
the laws thereof.
% 135. lAru'd 1877.] If there is no jail in a county ; or the
338.
jail becomes unfit or unsafe for the confinement of some or all
of the prisoners, or is destroyed by fire or otherwise ; or if a
pesfilential disease breaks out in the jail, or in the vicinity of
the jail, and the physician to the jail certifies that it is likely
to endanger the health of any or all of the prisoners in the
jail ; the county judge, or, in the city and county of New
York, the chief-judge of the court of common pleas, must, by
an instrument in writing, filed with the clerk of the county,
designate another suitable place within the county, or the jail
of a contiguous county, for the confinement of some or all of
the prisoners, as the case requires. The place so designated
thereupon becomes, to all intents and purposes, except as
otherwise prescribed in this article, the jail of the county for
which it has been so designated, and for the purposes ex
pressed in the instrument designating the same.
rjllnn,184.
g 13Q_ The designation may be modified or revoked, by
the judge making the same, by a like instrument in writing,
filed with ihe clerk of the county.
§ 137. The county clerk must serve a copy of the desig
nation, duly certified by him, under his official seal, on the
sheriff and keeper of the jail of a contiguous county so desig
nated. The sheriff of that county must, upon the delivery of
the sheriff of the county for which the designation is made,
receive into his jail, and there safely .keep, all persons who
may be lawfully confined therein, pursuant to this article ,
and he is responsible for their safe keeping, as if he was the
sheriff of the county for which the designation is made.
§ 138. If a prisoner has been admitted to the liberties of
the jail of the county, for which the designation is made, he
must, notwithstanding, remain within those liberties ; but he
may be removed by the sheriff, to whom he has given bond
for the liberties, to the jail or other place so designated, and confined therein, in a case, where the sheriff might confine
him in the jail of his own county.
§ 139. If a person, who is arrested, before or after the
designation, by the sheriff of the county for which the desig
nation is made, becomes entitled, after the designation, and
before his removal, to the liberties of the jail, he must be ad
mitted to the liberties of the jail of that county, as if the
designation had not been made; but he may be removed by
the sheriff to the jail, or other place, so designated, and con
fined therein, in a case, where the sheriff might confine him in
the jail of his own county.
§ 140. If a person confined in or removed to the jail of a
contiguous county, designated as prescribed in this article,
becomes entitled to the liberties of the jail, the sheriff of that
county must admit him to the jail liberties, as if he had been
originally arrested by that sheriff, on a mandate directed to
him
§ 141. When a jail is erected for the county, for whose
use the designation was made, or its jail is rendered fit and
safe for the confinement of prisoners, or the reason for the
designation of another jail or place has otherwise ceased to
be operative, the designation must be revoked, as prescribed in
this article.
§ 142. The county clerk must immediately serve a copy
of the revocation, duly certified by him under his official seal,
upon the sheriff of the same county ; who must remove the
prisoners belonging to his custody, and confined without his
county, to his proper jail. If a prisoner has been admitted to
the jail liberties in the other county, he must also be removed;
and he is entitled to the liberties or the jail of the county, to
which he is removed, without a new bond, as if he had been
originally admitted to the jail liberties in that county ; and
the bond given by him applies accordingly to those liberties.
§ 143. If, by reason of a jail, or a building near a jail,
being on fire, there is reason to apprehend that some or all of
the prisoners confined in the jail, may be injured, or may es
cape, the sheriff or keeper of the jail may, in his dircretion,
remove them to some safe and convenient place, and there
confine them, until they can be safely returned to the jail ; or,
if the jail is destroyed, or so injured, that it is unfit or unsafe
for the confinement of the prisoners, until a designation is
made, as prescribed in section one hundred and thirty-five of
this act.
§ 144. Ifthecountyjudge,orthechief-iudgeofthecourtof
common pleas for the city and county of New York, is absent
or unable to act, of if his office is vacant, a designation, or the
revocation or modification thereof, as prescribeain this article,
may be made, in any county, except New York, by the spe
cial county judge or the district attorney, or in the city and
county of New York, by any judge of the court of common
pleas.
§ 145. The following are the liberties of the jail for each
snL AIX! i?3 of the counties specified, to wit :
i"neni880 c
For tho city and county of New York, the whole of that
,;YC_
city and county
For the county of Onondaga, the whole of the city of Syra
cuse.
For the county of Monroe, the whole of the city of Rochester.
For the county of Erie, the whole of the city of Buffalo.
For the county of Dutchess, the whole of the city of Poughkeepsie.
For the county of Kings, the whole of that county.
For the county of Albany, the whole of the city of Albany.
For the county of Jefferson, the whole of the city of Watertown.
For the county of Herkimer, the whole of the village of
Herkimer.
For the county of Rensselaer, the whole of the city of Troy.
§ 146. The liberties of the jail in each of the other counties
of the State, as heretofore established, shall continue to be the
liberties thereof, until they are altered, or new liberties are
established, as prescribed by law.
§ 14"7. Where the liberties of a jail are altered or estab
lished, by resolution of the board of supervisors, as prescribed
by law, a space of ground, adjacent to the jail, and not ex
ceeding five hundred acres in quantity, must be laid out as
the jail liberties, in a square or rectangle as nearly as may be ;
but a stream of water, canal, street, or highway, may be
adopted as an exterior line, notwithstanding it is not in a
straight line, or is not at right angles with the other exterior
lines of the liberties. A resolution establishing or altering jail
liberties, must contain a particular description of their bound
aries ; and as soon as may be after its adoption, the bound
aries must be designated by monuments, enclosures, posts, or
other visible and permanent marks, at the expense of the
county.
§ 148. The county clerk must, within one week after a
resolution of the board of supervisors, establishing or altering
jail liberties, has been filed in his office, deliver an exemplified
copy thereof to the keeper of the jail who must keep the same
exposed to public view, in an open and public part of the jail,
and exhibit it to each person admitted to the liberties of the
jail, at the time of his executing a bond for that purpose.
r
136

§ 149. [Am,d 1886.] A person in the custody of a sheriff
by virtue of an order of arrest ; or of an execution in a civil
action ; or in consequence of a surrender in exoneration of his
bail, is entitled to be admitted to the liberties of the jail, upon
delivering to the sheriff an undertaking as prescribed in the
next section.
§ 150. [Ain't! 1886.] The undertaking must bo executed
by the prisoner and one or more sufficient sureties*, resident h 67 N. V .237.
and householders or freeholders of the county, in a penalty at
least twice the sum iu which the sheriff was required to bold
the defendant to bail, if he is in custody under an order of
arrest, or has been surrendered in exoneration of his bail
before judgment ; or directed to be collected by the execution,
if he is in custody under an execution ; or remaining um-ollected upon a judgment against him if lie has been surrendered
after judgment ; conditioned that the person so in cuxtrxly
shall remain a prisoner, and shall not, at any time or in any
manner, escape or go without the liberties of the jail, until
discharged by due course of law.
The provisions regulating the justification of bail, contained
in article third of title first of chapter seventh of this act,
govern, except as otherwise expressly prescribed in this
article with respect to the notice of justification of the sure
ties ; the officers before whom they must justify ; the substi
tution of new sureties or a new undertaking ; the examination
and qualifications of the new sureties, and the allowance of the
undertaking. But after the allowance the undertaking must
be delivered to the party at whose instance the prisoner is in
custody.
§ 151. [Am'd 1886.] An undertaking so taken is held for
the indemnity of the sheriff taking it, and of the party at
whose instance the prisoner executing it is confined.
§ 152. [Am'd 1886.1 If the party at whose instance the
gnsoner is in custody discovers that a surety therein is insufcient, he may, upon proof of the fact, by affidavit or other
wise, apply to the court or to a judge thereof, on whose process
or mandate such prisoner is in custody, or to the county judge
of the county where such prisoner is confined, and the court
or a judge thereof, or such county judge may make an order
committing such prisoner to close confinement in the jail until
another undertaking, with good and sufficient sureties, is
offered.
§ 153. iAm'd 1886.] One or more of the sureties in an un
dertaking given for the liberties of a jail may surrender the
principal at any time before judgment is rendered against
them in an action on the undertaking, but they are not exon
erated thereby from a liability incurred before making the
surrender.
§ 154. [Am'd 1886.] The surrender must be made as fol
lows : The surety or surties making it must take the principal
to the keeper of the jail, who must, upon his or their written
requisition to that effect, take the principal into his cutody
and indorse upon the undertaking given for the liberties, an
acknowledgment of the surrender, and also, if required give
the surety or sureties a certificate, acknowledging the sur
render.
§ 155. [ylm'dl886.] The going at large within the liber
ties of the jail in which he is in custody, of a prisoner who has
executed such an undertaking, or of a prisoner who would be
entitled to the liberties upon executing such an undertaking,
is not an escape. But the going at largo beyond the liberties
by a prisoner, without the assent of the party at whose in
stance he is in custody, is an escape, and the sheriff in whose
custody he was, or his sureties, has the same authoiitv to pursue and retake him as if he had escaped from the jail. Such
an escape forfeits the undertaking for the liberties, if any,
subject to the provisions of the next article of this title.
§ 156. [Am'd 1877.] Where a person, who has been in
dicted for a criminal offense, is held by a sheriff, by virtue of
a mandate in a civil action or special proceeding, the court,
in which the indictment is pending, may make an order, re
quiring the sheriff to bring him before the court , whereupon
the court may make such disposition of the prisoner, as to it
seems proper. The sheriff's fees and expenses, in so doing,
are a county charge of the county wherein the court is sitting.
1UN.Y.584,
§ 157. A prisoner, committed to jail upon process for
contempt, or committed for misconduct in a case prescribed
by law, must be actually confined and detained within the
jail, until he is discharged by due course of law, or is removed
to another jail or place of confinement, in a case prescribed
by law. A sheriff or keeper of a jail, who suffers such a pris
oner to go or be at large out of his jail, except by virtue of a
writ of habeas corpus, or by the special direction of the court
committing him, or in a case specially prescribed by law ; is
liable to the party aggrieved, for his damages sustained
thereby, and is guilty of a misdemeanor. If the commitment
was for the non-payment of a sum of money, the amount
thereof, with interest, is the measure of damages.
fl58. [Am'd 1886.] Where a prisoner in a sheriff's cusy goes or is at large beyond the liberties of the jail, with
out the assent of the party at whose instance he is in custody,
the sheriff is answerable therefore until an undertaking for tne
liberties of the jail is given and approved, in an action against
him as follows :
1. If the prisoner was in custody by virtue of an order of
arrest or in consequence of a surrender in exoneration of his
bail before judgment, the sheriff is answerable to the extent
of the damages sustained by the plaintifff.
2. If the prisoner was in custody by virtue of any other
84 N. Y. 446. mandate or in consequence of a surrender in exoneration of
his bail after judgment, the sheriff is answerable for the debt,
damages, or sum of money, for winch the prisoner was com
mitted.
§ 159. A sheriff or other officer, who demands or receives
a reward, gratuity, or other valuable thing, to procure, assist,
connive at, or permit an escape of a prisoner in his custody,
is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished accordingly.
A conviction also operates as a forfeiture of his office, and dis
qualifies him forever thereafter from holding the same.
§ 10O. [Am'd 1880.] In an action brought on an under
taking for the jail liberties, it is a defense that the prisoner
voluntarily returned to the liberties of the jail from which he
escaped or was recaptured by, or surrendered to the sheriff
from whose custody he escaped before the commencement of
the action. The defendants may make that or any other de
fence to the action, which might be made by the sheriff to an
action against him for the escape.
§ 161. But if judgment has been rendered against the
sheriff, in an action brought for the escape, and due notice uf
the pendency of the action was given to the prisoner and his
sureties, to enable them to defend the same, the judgment
against the sheriff is conclusive evidence of his right to re
cover against the prisoner and his sureties, to w-liom the
notice was given, as to any matter which was or might have
been controverted, in the action against the sheriff.
§ 162. [Am'd 1886.1 In an action brought by a sheriff on
an undertaking for the jail liberties, if it appears to the court,
upon a motion made in behalf of the sheriff, that judgment
has been rendered against him for the escape of the prisoner,
and that due notice of the pendency of the action against him
was given to the prisoner and his sureties to enable them to
defend the same, the court must order a summary judgment
for the plaintifff ; and the judgment must be entered accord
ingly, with costs.
§ 163. But to entitle a sheriff to move for such a judg
ment, he must have served a copy of his complaint, and given
twenty days' notice of the motion.
§ 164. If it appears, on the hearing of the motion, that
the defendants have a meritorious defense, which was not
controverted in the action against the sheriff, and which by
law could not have been so controverted, the court may stay
proceedings on the judgment, with such limitations and upon
such terms, as it deems just, until a trial in the action ; but
the judgment must stand as a security for the sheriff. If the
defense is established, the court must vacate the judgment,
and render judgment for the defendant.
§ 165. [Am'd 1886.] In an action brought by a sheriff on
an undertaking for the jail liberties, a judgment against him
for the escape of the prisoner is evidence of the damages sus
tained by him, as if it had been collected ; and he may recover
his reasonable attorney's and counsel fees and other expenses
in defending the action against him, as part of his damages.
§ 166. [Am,'dl886.] If an undertaking for the jailliberties is forfeited before the same is duly allowed, the party at
whose instance the prisoner was confined, or in case of his
death, his executor or administrator, may elect to bring an
action on the undertaking.
§ 167. [Am'd 1880.] The person so electing may main
tain an action, on the undertaking in a case where an action 16 Hun, 428.
might be maintained by. the sheriff, and he may recover the
same damages for the breach of the condition which he might
have recovered in an action against the slieiilT for the escape.
§ 168. [Am'dl886.] The commencement of such an ac
tion shall be deemed an election and is a bar to an action by
or on behalf of such person against the sheriff or other officer
accepting such an undertaking, for an escape by the prisoner executing the undertaking, amounting to a breach of the con
dition thereof, unless the escape was with the assent of the
sheriff or other officer.
§ 169..[/l>n'dmS6.] In an action brought as provided in
the three last sections, the defendant may make any defense
which he might make if the action was brought by the sheriff.
§ 170. [Aiu'd 188(i.] If the person so entitled to bring an
action on the undertaking for the jail liberties, in lieu of making such election brings an action against the sheriff for the
escape, the court may, except where the escape was made
with sheriff's assent, stay proceedings upon a judgment re
covered against the sheriff, with such limitations and upon
such terms as it deems just, until he has had a reasonable
time to prosecute the undertaking and collect a judgment
recovered thereon.
§ 171. In an action against a sheriff or other officer, for
the escape of a prisoner, it is a defense, that the escape was
without the assent of the defendant, and that at the com
mencement of the action, he had the prisoner within the lib
erties, either by his voluntary return, or by recapture.
§ 172. In an action or special proceeding, to which the
sheriff of a county is a party, a coroner of the same county
has all the power, and is subject to all the duties of a sheriff,
in a cause to which the sheriff is not a party ; except as other
wise specially prescribed by law.
§ 173. A mandate in a civil action or special proceeding
which must or may be executed by the coroners, or by a cor.
orer of a county, must be directed either to a particular cor,
oner, or generally to the coroners of that county. Where
such a mandate is directed generally to the coroners of a
county, or requires them to do any act, it may be executed,
and a return thereto may be made and signed, by one of
them, but such an act or return does not affect the others.
§ 174. [AnCd 1886.] "Where a mandate requiring the ar
rest of the sheriff of the county, is directed to a coroner, he
must execute the same in the manner prescribed by law, with
respect to the execution of a similar mandate by a sheriff,
and he is authorized to take an undertaking mi the arrest, or
an undertaking for the jail liberties in a like case, and in
like manner, and with like effect, as where such an undertak
ing may be taken by a sheriff.
§ 175. "Where the actual confinement of a sheriff by a cor
oner, on a mandate, is required or authorized by law, he must
be confined by the coroner, in a house situated within the libtrties of the jail of the county, other than the sheriff's house
or the jail, in the same manner as a sheriff is required bv 1™
to confine a prisoner in the jail.
^ ™ Dv law
* ^t17^' That,Jl0,use thereupon become the jail of the coun
ty, for the use of the coroner ; and each nrovit An „* i
lating the
to the
jail is
orconfined
to an escape
from the jaU applies
applies thereto,
twl
while
sheriff
therein.
§ 177. lAm?d 1880.] A sheriff so arrested m„«+ v.
, •*
ted to the liberties of the jail of the coimty in T ke cW ™H
upon executingahkeundertakingtothe coVoner. as pretriK H
by law for a prisoner in the sheriff's custody. Fo^arT^,^
of the sheriff from the liberties, the coroner isTable fa^C
same manner and to the same extent as a sheriff f„r as mil™
escape, and he may make the same defense as a sheriff
^ i ^8- .WS'd,?588-l The kroner may prosecute an .,„
dertakmg for the liberties taken by him and is^enHf l»H ? u n
the rights and subject to all the liabilife^prescribed bvW
with respect to a similar undertakingtaken by a sheriff %
undertaking may be assigned bv him to the rtt? V' u
instance the sheriff was arrested and thJ .=,£*. ty at w£oso
may be had thereupon as upon an undertaldn^^C6^111^
signed by a sheriff In a similar case
ng tafam and as"
§ 179. A person arrested bv a coroner in o„
special proceeding, in which the sheriff of fho
\ a<?tlOD or
tfff, must be confined in the jail of thl countv inTi* " PLainsuch a confinement is required or aSthori^'by faw "buttT
coroner is not liable for an escape of tho «Jiy
i but the
jail after he has been confined Sel * A ^"ZTso'S^
must be kept and treated, in all respects liW?^ conflned
fined by the sheriff.
inspects, llke a prisoner ^^
§ 180. lAm'd 1886.1 A person so arrests k,
entitled to be discharged, or^The hbertfel ol th^iaTTThe
case requires, upon giving an undertaking to thl ^onlr^n
the like manner, and in a like case in whlA, „
coroner in
by a sheriff would be ent tied to be%rohaT4dPInT ST^1
ties. The undertaking so givenmust be in Iil r!» to,the- hY?Tto that required to be^given to a^heriff Sff f'mila/

feet, and may be assigned ^^LTu^^^.

manner and to the same extent, asaSii' Same
pose a like defense.
snerur, and may mterTITLE IV.
Powers, duties and liabilities of an incoming and outao
xng sheriff, respectively, touching the matters included '
in this chapter.*
\ 182. Certificate to be furnished
185 Former sheriff („
to new sheriff.
„„? sheriff to execute
184. Jails,
process,
to be
delived
to newetc.,
sheriff.

187 <&
Certain «*»
K?;to^be
^ *j
W"

by new sheriff.
L.*l8Wct6^.laW reSulati°8 sheriffs in the county of New York, see
J 188. Delivery of prisoners, pro
cess, etc., how enforced.
 189. Under-sheriff, etc., when
to comply with the fore
going provisions.

.1 How. Pr.
§ 182. Where a new sheriff has been elected or appoint
or S. 236.
ed, and has qualified and given the security required by law,
2N. Y.Supp. the clerk of the county must furnish to the new sheriff a certi5Wflcate, under his hand and official seal, stating that the person
so appointed or elected, has so qualified and given security.
84 N. Y. 222.
§ 186. Upon the commencement of the new sheriffs term
of office, and the service of the certificate on the former sher
iff, the latter's powers as sheriff cease, except as otherwise
expressly prescribed by law.
§ 184. "Within ten days after the service of the certificate!
upon the former sheriff, he must deliver to his successor :
1. The jail, or if there are two or more, the jails of the
county, with all their appurtenances, and the property of the
county therein.
2. All the prisoners then confined in the jail or jails.
8. All process, orders, commitments, and all other papers
and documents, authorizing, or relating to the confinement or
custody of a prisoner, or, if such a process, order, or commit
ment has been returned, a statement in writing of the con
tents thereof, and when and where it was returned.
83 N. Y. 174
■*. All mandates, then in his hands, except such as he has
" fully executed, or has begun to execute, by the collection of
money thereon, or by a seizure of or levy on money or other
property, in pursuance thereof.
88 N Y 403
§ 185. At the time of the delivery, the former sheriff
' '
' must execute an instrument, reciting the property, documents,
and prisoners delivered, specifying particularly the process or
other authority, by which each prisoner was committed and is
detained, and whether the same has been returned or is de
livered to the new sheriff. The instrument must be delivered
to the new sheriff, who must acknowledge, in writing, upon a
duplicate thereof, the receipt of the property, documents and
prisoners, therein specified ; and deliver such duplicate and
acknowledgment to the former sheriff.*
§ 186. Notwithstanding the election or appointment of a
new sheriff, the former sheriff mnst return, in his own name,
each mandate which he has fully executed ; and must proceed
with and complete the execution of each mandate which he
has begnn to execute, In the manner specified in subdivision
fourth of the last section but one.
84 N.Y. 222.
§ 187. Where a person, arrested by virtue of an order of
arrest, is confined, cither in jail, or to the liberties thereof, at
the time of assigning and delivering the jail to the new sher
iff, the order, if it is not then returnable, must be delivered to
the new sheriff, and be returned by him at the return day
thereof, with the proceedings of the former sheriff and of the
new sheriff thereon.
§ 188. If the former sheriff neglects or refuses to deliver
to his successor, the jail, or any of the property, documents or
prisoners in his charge, as prescribed in this title, his succes
sor must, notwithstanding, take possession of the jail, and of
the property of the county therein, and the custody of the
•
* For Inw regulating sheriffs office in New York county, see L,.
lSuUuKZSglO.
prisoners therein confined, and proceed to compel the deliv
ery of the documents withheld, as prescribed by law.
§ 189. If, at the time when a new sheriff qualifies, and
gives the security required by law, the office of the former
sheriff is executed by Ins under-sheriff, or by a coroner of the
county, or a person specially authorized for that pur]K>se, he
must comply with the provisions of this title, and perfonu
the duties thereby required of the former sheriff.
§190. [Am'c?1883.] The court of appeals has exclusive
jurisdiction to review, upon appeal, every actual determination, made at a general term, by the supreme court, or by
either of the superior city courts, in either of the followingcases, and no others :
1. Where a final judgment has been rendered, in an action
commenced in either of those courts, or brought there from
another court ; and upon such an appeal, to review an inter
locutory judgment or intermediate order, involving the mer
its, and necessarily affecting the final judgment.
2. Where an order has been made in such an action, affectin<r a substantial right; and not resting in discretion, which
either (first) in effect determines the action, and prevents a •
final judgment, or (second) discontinues the action, or (third)
grants or refuses a new trial, or (fourth) strikes out a plead
ing or part of a pleading, "or (fifth) decides an interlocutory

gj NIdY' o"'gi
94 jd. 248 •
103 Id. 378;
104 Id. 20O;
Id. 234; Id.
661; JjJ {?■
ijj?'

13 Week.
J^'-^'rf^'.
?j; -j\ 1J2 i
1,J1 j^ 57 ' '
§ Hun 584.
82 N. Y. SOU;
87 Id. 15!;'
I.I. r>27 ; lii5
Id. 57.
Yapplication, or a question of practice, or (sixth) determines a
statutory provision of the State to be unconstitutional, and
the determination appears from the reasons given for the
decision, or is necessarily implied in the decision.
8. Where a final order, affecting a substantial right, has
been made in a special proceeding, or upon a summary application in an action, after judgment ; and, upon such an
appeal, to review any intermediate order, involving the
merits, and necessarily affecting the order appealed from.
4. When an interlocutory judgment has been entered on the
decision of a demurrer, provided that the appeal shall be
taken within sixty days after the service oil the attorney for
the appellant of a copy of the judgment and notice of the
entry thereof, and provided also that, excepting in the case
of appeals now pending, the general term shall certify that in
its opinion the question arising therein is of sufficient import
ance to render a decision by the court of appeals desirable
before proceeding farther.
So much of the provisions of the subdivision hereby added
to said section one hundred and ninety as precedes the second
proviso thereof, shall apply to appeals already pending in the
court of appeals, as well as to those that may hereafter be
brought, excepting that so much of said subdivision as limits
the time for the taking of said appeals shall not be applicable
to appeals already pending.

§1274, Con§ 191. [Am'd 1877, 1887, 1888.] But the jurisdiction, consol." Act.
ferred by the last section, is subject to the following limita75 N. Y. 156 ; tions, exceptions, and conditions :
94 Id. 518;
101 Id. 17 ; 107 Id. 645 ; 108 Id. 518 ; 117 Id. 75.

24 n y
!• -A-n appeal cannot be taken, from an order granting a new
State Rep. trial, on a case or exceptions, unless the notice of appeal con638 tains an assent, on the part of the appellant, that if the order
is affirmed, judgment absolute shall be rendered against the
appellant.
3. An appeal cannot be taken in an action commenced in a
court of a justice of the peace or in the city court of New
York, or in a district court of that city, or in the city court of
Yonkers, or in a justice's court of a city, unless the court
below allows the appeal by an order made at the general term
which rendered the determination, or at the next general term
after judgment is entered thereupon. An action discontinued
because the answer set forth matter showing that the title to
real property came in question, and afterward prosecuted in
another court, is not deemed to have been commenced in the
court wherein the answer was interposed, within the meaning
of this subdivision.
34 Hun, 584.
3. An appeal cannot be taken from a judgment, or from an
92 I'wh *n' or(^er granting or refusing a new trial, except in an action or
'2 ,g?
special proceeding affecting the title to real property, or an
lioN Y 500- 'utc'res'' therein, if the matter is controversy, excluding costs,
Id. 062' 111 is less than five hundred dollars; unless the court below, by
Id! 577; 114 an order made at the general term which rendered the deterId. 209; 123 urination, or at the next general term after judgment is
Id. 650.
entered thereupon, allows the appeal, on the ground that a ques
tion of law is involved, which ought to be reviewed by the
Court of appeals.
If an appeal is taken, by the plaintifff, from a judgment
rendered in an action not founded upon a contract, the sum for
which the complaint demands judgment, or, if the action is to recover one or more chattels, the value of the chattels, as
stated in the complaint, is deemed to be the amount of the
matter in controversy, within the last subdivision, unless the
defendant has interposed a counterclaim ; in which case the
counterclaim must be included, in determining the amount in
controversy.
8 192. [.Am'o! 1887.] An appeal from an Interlocutory 102 N. Y.688.
judgment over-ruling or sustaining a demurrer, and an ap
peal from an order under subdivision second of the last sec
tion but one, except an order which in effect determines the
action and prevents a final judgment, or discontinues the
action, or grants or refuses a new trial upon a case or ex
ceptions, may be noticed for hearing on a motion day and
heard as a motion.
§ 193. The court may from time to time make, alter,
ana amend, rules, not inconsistent with the Constitution or
statutes of the State, regulating the practice and proceedings
in the court, and the admission of attorneys and counsellorsat-law, to practice in all the courts of record of the State.
§ 1 94. The judgment or order of the court of appeals
must be remitted to the court below, to be enforced according m • ' • <02to law. Upon an appeal from an order granting a new trial,
on a case or exceptions, if the court of appeals determines
that no error was committed in granting the new trial, it
must render judgment absolute upon the right of the appel •
lant ; and after its judgment has been remitted to the court
below an assessment of damages, or any other proceeding,
requisite to render the judgment effectual, may be had in the
latter court.
§ 195. Upon a second and each subsequent appeal, in
cluding a case where a former appeal has been dismissed for
a defect or irregularity, the time of the filing the return,
upon the first appeal, determines the place of the cause upon
the calendar.
§ 190. The terms of the court of appeals must be appoint
ed to be held, at such times and places as the court thinks
proper, and continued as long as the public interest requires.
§ 197. A term of the court may be appointed to be held
in a building, other than that designated by law for holding
courts. A term may be adjourned from the place where it is
appointed to be held, to another place in the same city. One
or more of the judges may adjourn a term, without day, or to
a day certain.
§ 198. The court may, from time to time, by an order
entered in its minutes, appoint and remove its clerk, its re
porter, and such attendants as it deems necessary.
ARTICLE SECOND.
The Clerk of the Court.
I 199. Clerk of the court of
§ 203. Money In custody of clerk
appeals to give bond ;
to be deposited in bank,
rooms for his office.
204. Clerk to report to court
200. To appoint a deputy.
of appeals concerning
Powers of deputy.
money.
201. May employ assistants in
205. Amount deposited to be
his office. Special depcertified by cashier,
uty.
206. Court may order money to
202. Is successor of former
be invested ; restrictions
clerk of court of appeals.
as to drawing money
from hank.
§ 207. Court may appoint person to examine accounts.
g 208. Court may make rules
concerning money.

§ 199. The clerk of the court of appeals, before entering
ujxm the duties of his office, must subscribe and file the Con
stitutional oath of office, and must execute and file in the
Comptroller's office a bond to the people of the State, in the
penalty of twenty-live thousand dollars, with two sufficient
sureties, approved by the Comptroller and conditioned for the
faithful performance of the duties of his office. If the bond is
forfeited by a breach of its condition, the court of appeals
must, by order, direct an action to be brought thereon. The
money recovered must be applied, under the direction of the
court of appeals to indemnify the persons aggrieved by the
breach, in proportion to their respective losses, and to make
good any other loss, occasioned by the breach. The clerk
must keep his office at the city of Albany, and the trustees
of the State Hall must assign him suitable rooms therein for
that purpose.
§ 200. Tne- clerk, by a writing, under his hand and the
seal of the court, filed in his office, from time to time must
appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a deputy clerk, who is
entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by
law. Before entering upon his duties, the deputy-clerk must
subscribe and file in the clerk's office the Constitutional oath
of office. While the clerk is absent from his office, or from
the sitting of the court, or the office of clerk is vacant, the
deputy-clerk has all the powers and is subject to all the duties
of the clerk.
§ 201. [Am'd 1877.] The clerk may, with the approba
tion, in writing, of the judges of the court, or a majority of
them, employ as many assistants in his office as are necessary.
He may from time to time appoint, and at pleasure remove,
his assistants. Each assistant is entitled to a compensation, fix
ed and to be paid as prescribed by law. The clerk may appoint
one of his assistants as special deputy-clerk ; who possesses,
in the absence of the clerk and the deputy-clerk, the same
power and authority as the clerk at any sitting of the court
which he attends, with respect to the business transacted
thereat.
§ 202. All money, stocks, securities, bonds, mortgages
and other things in action, and other property, which, were
possessed by the last clerk of the court of appeals, elected by
the people, by virtue of his office, have been transferred to,
and have become possessed by and vested in, the clerk ap
pointed by the court, as the successor in office of the last
elected clerk, notwithstanding the change in the mode of
appointment to the office and in the tenure thereof.
§ 203. All money now in the custody or under the con
trol of the clerk, and all other money which may hereafter be
paid to or received by him on account of a fund, or in a cause,
must bo deposited, until invested as prescribed in this article,
in such bank or banks as the court of appeals directs. Ac
counts thereof must be kept with tho banks in manner and
form as the court directs.
§ 204. On the first Tuesday of January, and on the first
Tuesday of July in each year, the clerk must transmit to the
chief-judge a statement, verified by his affidavit, of all money then remaining in court or in his hands, which must specify :
1. The fund or the title of the cause iu or on account of
which each sum of money was paid.
2. The party by whom it was paid, and generally for what
purpose3. The time of payment and the amount paid.
4. The bank in which it is deposited.
§ 205. The statement must be accompanied with a certi
ficate of the cashier of each bank in which a deposit is stated
to have been made, to the effect that the total amount stated
to be deposited is actually in the bank, placed to the credit of
the clerk, as clerk of the court of appeals, and not min
gled with any other account.
§ 206. The court may, by order, direct any portion of the H Abb. N.
money to be invested in the public debt of the State, or of the C. 3*.
United States, or in approved interest-bearing mortgages
upon real property. It may in like manner direct any sum of
money, or any security, to be transferred or disposed of, as
the court thinks proper. The clerk shall not invest any
money, except pursuant to such a direction. Money deposited
shall not be drawn from the bunk, except on a check, signed
by the clerk and countersigned by the chief-judge, or, iu his
absence, by an associate judge of the court.
§ 207. The court may also, from time to time, appoint a
suitable person to examine the accounts kept by, and the
securities in the custody of the clerk, who shall bo paid by the
Comptroller for that service a reasonable sum, certified by
the chief-judge,
£ 208. The court may also, from time to time, make such
regulations concerning the money and securities specified in
this article, making deposits, keeping accounts and drawing
money, as it deems proper ; but each regulation so made must
be entered in the minutes.
§ 209. The rejiortcr appointed by the court of appeals is
styled the State reporter j and cucii provision of a statue,
wherein the State reporter is mentioncd,'applies to the offioer
thus appointed.
<S 210. The State reporter must report every cause, de
termined in the court of appeals, which the court directs him,
or which the public interest) in his judgment, requires him to
report. To enable him to perform that duly, the judges of
the court must deliver to him the written opinions, rendered
in eaeh cause so determined. Each decision of the court,
which is reported, must be so reported as soon as practicable
after it is made; and if the reporter neglects faithfully to perform that duty, it is the duty of the court to remove him from
office.
§211. The State reporter shall not have any pecuniary in
terest in the reports; but a contract for the publication thereof,
under his supervision, must, from time to time, be made, in
behalf of the people, by the State reporter, Secretary of State,
and Comptroller, with the person or persons who agree to
furnish to the Secretary of State, so many copies of each vol
ume, as may be needed to enable him to comply with the next
section but one ; and also to publish and sell the reports, on
terms the most advantageous to the public, regard being had
to the proper execution of the work, and at a price not ex
ceeding three dollars for a volume of not less than five hun
dred pages. Each contract, so entered into, must provide for
the publication of the reports, for three years from the expira
tion of the time, specified for that purpose in the last contract.
If the State reporter, Secretary of State, and Comptroller unite
in determining, that a contract has not been faithfully kept
by the person or persons agreeing so to publish the reports,
they may, by an instrument in writing under their hands,
filed in the office of the Secretary of State, annul the same
from a time specified in the instrument ; and thereupon they
may enter into a new contract, for the publication of the re
ports, for three years from the time so specified. Before en
tering into a contract, the State reporter, Secretary of State,
and Comptroller must advertise for, receive, and consider
proposals for the publication of the reports.
§ 212. [Am'd 1877.] Neither the State reporter nor any
other person shall obtain a copyright for the opinions contained
in the reports ; and the same may be published by any per
son. But the copyright of the statements of facts, of the
head-notes, and or all other notes or references, prepared by
the State reporter, must be taken by, and shall be vested in
the Secretary of State, for the benefit of the people of the
State.
§ 213. Of the copies of each volume of the reports, fur
nished to the Secretary of State, he must deliver one to the
clerk of each county, for the use of the county, and deposit
one in the office of the Attorney-General, one with the clerk of
the court of appeals, for the use of that court, and three in the
State library.
§ 214. A State reporter must, on the appointment of his
successor, deliver to him all papers in his hands, pertaining to
a cause which he has not reported, or which are not necessary
to be retained by him, to complete the publication of a vol
ume which is then partly printed.
§ 215. A State reporter, after the expiration of his term
of office, shall not deliver a paper specified in the last section,
or a copy thereof, to any person other than his successor in
office, or the publisher of a partly printed volume; except
that a copy of such a paper may be furnished by him, during
a vacancy* in the office, to a judge of the court, or to the at
torney for a party to the cause to which it relates.
£ 216. The State reporter must deposit with the clerk of
the court, all opinions delivered to him, which are not to be re
ported, immediately after the publication of the reports of the
other cases, decided at the same time. They must be proper
ly filed and preserved, by the clerk,
§ 217. The general jurisdiction in law and equity, which J 1103 t*>nthe supreme court of the State possesses, under the provisions sol- Act.
of the Constitution, includes all the jurisdiction, which was
possessed and exercised by the supreme court of the colony of
New York, at any time, and by the court of chancery in Eng
land, on the fourth day of July, seventeen hundred and seven
ty-six, with the exceptions, additions, and limitations, created
and imposed by the Constitution and laws of the State. Sub
ject to those exceptions and limitations, the supreme court of
the State has all the powers and authority of each of those
courts, and exercises the same in like manner.
§ 218. The supreme court, upon the application of either
party, may, and. in a proper case, must make an order,
directing that an issue of fact, joined in an action or special
^—
proceeding, pending
-nay other court of record, except a
superior city cour*
:ne court of the city of New York, /
or a county cor
-Mrcuitcourtmanothercountv
ercouawVon such terms and under such regulations as it deems just ;
and thereupon the issue must be tried accordingly. After
the trial, the clerk of the county, in which it has taken place,
must certify the minutes thereof ; which must be filed with the
clerk of the court, in which the action or special proceeding
is ponding. The subsequent proceedings in the last mentioned
court must be the same, as it the issue had been tried therein.
§ 219. The departments into which the State is divided,
for the purposes of organizing and holding general terms of the
supreme court, are styled, in this act, judicial departments.
There is a general term of the supreme court in each judicial
department, composed of a presiding justice and two asso
ciate justices, designated from the whole bench of justices of
the supreme court, as prescribed in the next two sections.
The justices so designated are styled in this act, general term
justices.
§ 220. A presiding justice shall act as such, during his
official term as a justice of the supreme court, and an asso
ciate justice for five years from the thirty-first day of Decem
ber, next after his designation ; or until the earlier close of
his official term. But the Govenor may, at any time, upon
the written request of a general term justice, revoke his
designation.
§ 221. Within three months before a vacancy is to occur
by lapse of time, or as soon after its occurrence as'practicable,
the Govenor must designate, from the whole bench of justices
of the supreme court, another presiding or associate justice,
as the case requires. The person so designated shall act as
presiding or associate justice, for the period specified in the
last section. When a vacancy occurs, for any cause except
lapse of time, the Govenor must designate a presiding or
associate justice, as the case requires. An associate justice,
thus designated, shall act for his predecessor's unexpired
time, or until the earlier close of his official term.
§ 222. Where the Governor revokes the designation of
a general term justice, as prescribed in the last section but
one he may prescribe the duties to be performed by that
justice, in holding court in any part of the State, from the
time of such revocation until the taking effect of the next
appointment of terms, as prescribed in section two hundred
and thirty-two of this act, for the judicial department to
which that justice belongs.
§ 223. A designation of a general term justice, or a
revocation thereof, must be in writing, and filed in the office
of the Secretary of State. The request of the justice whose
designation is revoked, must be filed with the revocation.
§ 224. A presiding justice, designated for a judicial de
partment, may preside at a general term, held in another
department, if the presiding justice of that department is
absent, or disqualified from acting ; and an associate justice
may act as such, at a general term held in another depart
ment, in place of an associate justice of that department, who
is in like manner absent or disqualified.
§ 225. [Arrid 1877.] On or before the first day of De
cember, in the year eighteen hundred and seventy-eight, and
each second year thereafter, the general term justices in each
judicial department, or a majority of them, must appoint the times and places for holding: the general terms of the hi|jiiii»
hourt, within their judicial department, for two rears Iron tie
first day of January, of the year then next following. They
must so designate at least one general term in each year,
to be held in each of the judicial districts composing tike de
partment.
§ 226. An appointment so made must be signed by the
justices making it, and filed on or before the fifteenth day of
December of the same year, in theofhee of Secretary of Slate;
who must immediately thereafter publish a. copy thereof in
the newspaper printed at Albany, in which legal notices are
required to be published, at least once in each week, for four sue
cessive weeks. The expense of the publication is payable out
of the treasury of the State.
§ 227. If an appointment of general terms is not made or
filed, before the expiration of the time specified therefore in the
last two sections, it may be made or filed at the earliest con
venient time thereafter; and the terms appointed thereby may
be held pursuant to the same, after it has been published for
the length of time, prescribed in the last section.
§ 228. lAm'd 1881.] If a presiding justice is not present,
at the time and place appointed for holding a general term,
the associate justice present, having the shortest time to
serve, or, if two are present, who have the same time
to serve, the elder of them, must act as presiding justice,
until a presiding justice attends. If only one general term
justice is present, he may select one or "two justices of the
supreme court, to hold with him the general term, until two
general term justices attend. If only two general term jus
tices are present, they may select a justice of the supreme
court to hold general term with them.
§ 229. [Repealed 1877.]
§ 230. A general term may be held by two justices ; and
the concurrence of two justices is necessary to pronounce a
decision. If two do not concur, a re-argument must be or
dered.
§ 231. Where an order for a re-argument has been made,
as prescribed in the last section, and one of the general terni
justices of that judicial department is not qualified to sit in
the cause, the order directing the re-argument may, in the
discretion of the general term, direct it to take place, and the
cause to be decided, in another judicial department, specified
in the order. And where two of the general term justices, in
a department, are not qualified to sit in a cause, to be beard
at the general term of that department, an order may be
made, upon notice, by the other general term justice, or at a
special term of the court held in that department, directing
that the cause be heard and decided in another judicial de
partment, specified in the order. But this section does not
prevent the cause from being heard and decided, in the same
judicial department, by two qualified justices, if an order,
directing the same to be heard and decided in another depart
ment, has not been made.
§ 232. [Am'd 1886.] On or before the first day of Decern- f J11^on'
ber, in the year eighteen hundred and seventy-seven, and
every second year thereafter, the justices of the supreme
court, for each judicial depart*uent, or a majority of them
,pm
-f^fty-seve-*
n. and
.s of the sua h,
supreme
x majority o:o \ii
of them must appoint the times and places for holding the special
terms of the supreme court, and terms of the circuit courts
and courts of oyer and terminer within their department, for
two years from the first day of January of the year next
following. If, for any reason, such an appointment is not
made before the expiration of the time so specified, it must be
made at the earliest convenient time thereafter. At least
one special term of the supreme court, and two terms of the
circuit court, and of the court of oyer and terminer, must be
appointed to be held in each year, in each county separately
organized. Fulton and Hamilton counties shall be deemed
one county for the purposes of this section. Two or more
terms of the circuit court may be appointed to be held, and
may be held at the same time in the city and county of New
York.
§ 233. An appointment so made must be signed by the
justices making it, and immediately filed in the office of the
Secretary of State, who must publish a copy thereof in the
newspaper, printed at Albany, in which legal notices are re
quired to be published, at least once in each week, for three
successive weeks, before the holding of a term in pursuance
thereof. The expense of the publication is payable out of the
treasury of the State.
§ 234. The Governor may, when, in his opinion, the public
interest so requires, appoint one or more extraordinary general
or special terms of the supreme court, or terms of a circuit
court, or court of oyer and terminer. He must designate the
time and place of holding the same, and name the justice who
shall hold, or preside at each term, except a general term ; and
he must give notice of the appointment, in such manner as, in
his judgment, the pubUc interest requires.
§ 235. Any justice of the supreme court has power to sit
at a general term, or to hold a special term of the supreme
court, or a term of the circuit court, or to preside at a term
of the court of oyer and terminer, for the whole or any por
tion of the term ; and to act upon any business, which regu
larly comes before the term in which he is sitting ; except
where he is personally disqualified from sitting, in a particular
action or special proceeding. Each justice must, at all rea
sonable times, when not engaged in holding court, transact
such judicial business as may be done out of court.
§ 236. [Arrid 1880.] The Governor may, when, in his
i 1110 Con- opinion, the public interest so requires, designate one or more
sol. Act
judges of the superior court or the city of New York, or of
the court of common pleas of the city and county of New
York, to hold terms of tne circuit court, and special terms of
the supreme court in that city. The designation must be in
writing, and must specify each term, and the judge designa
ted to hold the same. A case or exceptions, in a cause tried at
such term, must be settled before the judge who held the
same ; and a judge thus designated may, after the expiration
of the period of such designation, decide, finally determine,
and dispose of any action, proceeding or motion, that may
have been tried or heard before him ; and such judge, during
the period of such designation, posseses, within the city of
New York, all the powers of a justice of the supreme court,
in or out of court, to make orders in any action or special
proceeding in the supreme court.
§ 237. If a general or special term of the supreme court,
or a term of the circuit court, or court of oyer and terminer,
duly appointed, is in danger of failing, the Governor may
designate one or more justices of the supreme court, as the
case requires, to preside at the term of the court of oyer and
terminer, or to hold the term of the supreme court, or circuit
court, in the absence of the justice or justice appointed to
preside at or hold the same.
§ 238. The place api>ointed within each county, for hold
ing a special term of the supreme court, at which issues of fact
are triable, or a term of the circuit court, or court of over
and terminer, must be that designated by statute, for holding
the county or circuit court.
§ 239. A special term of the supreme court may h* ad
journed to a future day, and to the chambers of any justice
of the court, residing within the judicial district, by an entry
in the minutes ; and then adjourned from time to time, as the
justice holding the same directs. An action triable by the
court, without a jury, which was upon the calendar of the
term before it was adjourned, may be tried at a term so ad
journed, and held at chambers, by consent of both parties,
but not otherwise. In that case, the attendance of the clerk,
the sheriff, the crier, or a constable, is not required, unless the
justice directs one or more of those officers to attend.
§ 240. Each judge of the superior court of Buffalo may,
within that city, make an order in an action or special pro
ceeding, pending in the supreme court, which a justice of the
supreme court may make, out of court.
t241. A judge of a superior city court, within his city, 25Hun,2M;
a county judge, within his county, possesses, and upon 4« Id.W.
proper application must exercise, the power conferred by law, 121N.Y.679.
in general language, upon an officer authorized to perform the
duties of a justice of the supreme court at chambers, or out of
court.
§ 242. lAm'd 1877, 1879.] A general term must lie at
tended by the sheriff of the county in which it is held, his
under sheriff, or one of his deputies ; by two constables or
police officers, notified by the sheriff; by a crier for courts
within the county ; and by the county clerk, or his deputy or
special deputy ; all of whom must act under the direction of
the court, or of the presiding justice. The sheriff of the
county must cause the room in which the general term is held
to be properly heated, ventilated, lighted and kept comfort
ably clean and in order. The court may enforce the perform
ance of that duty by the sheriff. The sheriff must also provide
the court with all necessary stationery and minute books
ujjon the written requisition of the court or of the justice pre
siding at the term.
8 243. The fees of a crier, a sheriff, a constable or a
police officer, for attending a general term, and all expenses
incurred by a sheriff in obedience Ui the last section, must be
audited by the Comptroller, and paid out of the treasury of
the State. The fees and proper charges of the clerk, for ser
vices rendered at or preparatory to a general term, and not
legally chargeable to an attorney or a party, are a county
charge.
§ 244. The reporter of the decisions of the supreme court
is styled the supreme court reporter ; and each provision of a
statute, wherein the supreme court reporter is mentioned, ap
plies to that officer.
§ 245. The term of office of the supreme court reporter is
five years from the time of his appointment, and until his
successor is appointed and qualifies. He must be appointed
aud may be removed, for cause, by the general term justices
of the supreme court, or a majority of such of them as attend
at a convention, held as prescribed in the next two sections.
An appointment or removal must be in writing ; it must be
signed by the justices making it, and filed in the office of the
Secretary of State ; otherwise it is of no effect.
§ 246. [Airid 1877.] The general term justices of the su
preme court must meet in convention, at the capitol in the city
of Albany, at noon of the day when the term of office of the su
preme court reporter expires, for the purposeof appointing a su
preme court reporter in his place. If that day is Sunday or a
public holiday, the a mvention must be held at the same time and
place, on the first day thereafter, not being Sunday or a public
holiday. If an appointment is not made at such a meeting, it
may be made at a special meeting of the convention, held as
prescribed in the next section. The supreme court reporter
may be removed at such a special meeting.
§ 247. A special meeting of the convention, for the ap
pointment or removal of a supreme court reporter, must be
held at the capitol in the city of Albany ; but it may be ad
journed to any other place. It may be called by a presiding
justice, by written or printed notice stating the object of the
meeting, and served, personally or through the post-office, up
on each of the general term justices, at least two weeks be
fore the time appointed therefore. If the object of the meet
ing is to consider the question of the removal of the supreme
court reporter, the notice must be accompanied with a copy
of the grounds, alleged for the removal ; and both must be
served upon the supreme court reporter, personally, or by
leaving them at Ins last place of residence, with some person
of suitable age and discretion, at least ten days before the
time appointed for the meeting.
§ 248. In each cause heard, at a general term of the su
preme court, the attorney or counsel for each party must de
liver to the clerk, for the use of the supreme court reporter, a
duplicate of each paper furnished by him for the use of the
court. The clerk must collect those papers from the counsel;
and immediately after the adjournment of the term, he must
transmit them, and certified copies of all the decisions, made
at that term, to the supreme court reporter, at the latter's ex
pense. Each judge who renders a written opinion in a cause
decided at a general term, must transmit it, or a certified copy
thereof, to the supreme court reporter, who must pay the expense of transmission, and also, where a copy is transmitted,
the expense of copying, not exceeding eight cents for each
folio.
§ 249. [Am'd 1885.] The supreme court reporter is not
entitled to a salary. He must report mid publish such of tlio
decisions at the general or special terms of the court, as ho
deems it for the public interest to have reported. He must
also report and publish the decision in a particular cause, which
the court, at a general or special term, specially directs him to
report. Not more than four volumes of his reports shall be
published in any one year. He must prepare for each volume,
and cause to be published therewith, the usual digest, head
notes, tables of contents, and index.
§ 250. The supreme court reporter must cause the re
ports, published as prescribed in the last section, to be kept
constantly for sale to persons within the State, at a price
not exceeding two dollars and fifty cents, for a volume of
not less than seven hundred pages.
§ 251. [Am'd 1880, 1883.] The justices of the supreme
court for the first judicial district, or a majority of them,
must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a stenographer
for each term of the circuit court, for the general term
of the supreme court, and for each special term of the su
preme court which constitutes a separate part. Each ste
nographer so appointed is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be
paid as prescribed by law ; he must attend all the sittings of
the part for which he is appointed. If the judge requires a
copy of any proceedings written out at length from the ste
nographic notes, he may make an order directing one-half of
the stenographer's fees therefore to be paid by each of the
parties to the action or special proceeding, at the rate of ten
cents per each folio so written out, and may enforce payment
thereof. Any such copy shall be accessible to and may be ex
amined by any of the counsel in the cause. If there are two
or more parties on the same side, the order may direct either
of them to pay the sum payable by their side for the stenog
rapher's fees, or it may apportion the payment thereof among
them as the judge deems just.
§ 252. The judge who holds, in the first judicial district,
an"extraordinary term of the circuit court, or an extraordinary special term of the supreme court, must appoint a
stenographer for that term, who is entitled to a compensation,
at the rate and in the manner prescribed by law for the offi
cial stenographer.
§ 253. The judge presiding at a term of the court of oyer
an'd terminer, held in and for the city and county of New York, must designate a stenographer of the supreme court, to
act as stenographer for that term during its sitting, who is
not entitled to any compensation in addition to his salary ;
except that, if a copy of any proceedings, written out at
length from the stenographic notes, if required for the use of
the presiding judge or the district attorney, the stenograph
er's fees therefore are payable, on his certificate, as a county
charge.
t$ 254. [Am?d 1881.] The justices of the supreme court
residing in the county of Kings, or a majority of them, must
appoint and may at pleasure remove three stenographers who
shall severally attend, as directed by the respective judges
appointing them, the general and special terms of the supreme
court, and the terais of the circuit court and court of oyer
and terminer in the county of Kings, and shall each receive
an annual salary of twenty-five hundred dollars, and the ex
pense thereof shall be raised with the annual tax levy as a
county charge.
§ 255. The stenographer, appointed as prescribed in the
last section, may, with the consent of the judge holding or
presiding at a special term of the supreme court, or term of
the circuit court, or court of oyer and terminer, employ an
assistant-stenographer, to aid him in the discharge or his
duties at that term, whose compensation must be paid by the
stenographer, and shall not become a county charge.
» 1171,1177,
§ 256. [ArrOd 1877.] Each justice of the supreme court
Consol. Act. for the second judicial district who does not reside in the
county of Kings must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a
stenographer, who must attend, as directed by the justice ap
pointing him, the general and special terms of the supreme
court, and the terms of the circuit court and court of oyer and
terminer held in the counties of Suffolk, Queens, Richmond,
Westchester, Rockland, Putnam, Dutchess, or Orange, and,
when not thus officially engaged, the stated terms of the
county court, in each of those counties.
§ 257. Each stenographer, appointed as prescribed in the
last section, is entitled to a salary fixed by law. To make up
and pay the salaries, the board of supervisors of each of the
said counties must annually levy, and cause to be collected,
as a county charge, a proportionate part of the sum necessary
to pay the same, to be fixed by the Comptroller of the State,
in accordance with the amount of the taxable real and per
sonal property in each county, as shown by the last annual
assessment-roll therein. The treasurer of each county must
pay over the sum so raised, to the Comptroller of the State,
who must thereupon pay the salary of each stenographer in
equal quarterly payments, under the direction of the justict
making the appointment.
§ 258. [ArtCd 1882, 1883, 1884, 1885, 1886, 1887, 1888, 1890.]
The justices of the supreme court, or a majority of them,
for each judicial district, excepting the first and second,
shall appoint and may at pleasure remove three steno
graphers of the supreme court for such district. Each of
such stenographers shall attend such circuit courts, special
terms of the supreme court, and courts of oyer and terminer,
in his judicial district as he shall be assigned to attend by the
justices of the supreme court, or a majority of them, for such
district. Each of such stenographers shall receive an annual
salary of twenty-five hundred dollars, to be paid by the Comptroller of the State, in equal quarterly payments, upon the
certificate of a justice of the supreme court of the judicial
district for which he shall have been appointed.
§ 259. [Am'd 1885, 1889, 1890.] To provide the means to
pay such salary the Comptroller of the State shall, on or
before the first day of November in each year, fix and trans
mit to the clerk of the Board of Supervisors in each of the
counties in said district a statement of the sum to be raised
by such Board of Supervisors, in accordance with the amount
of taxable real and personal property in each of said counties
as shown by the last annual assessment-roll therein. The
Boards of Supervisors in each of such counties shall annually
levy and cause to be collected in such county, and to be paid
over to the county treasurer thereof, the sum so fixed by the
Comptroller to be raised by such Board of Su]>ervisors, and
such county treasurer shall pay such sum to the Comptroller
of the State for the payment of said salaries. Until the first
day of January, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, the clerks
of the counties composing the seventh judicial district in
which a term of court specified in section one of this act is
held, must furnish the stenographer attending the same with
a certificate of the number of days the term nas been in ses
sion. Upon the certificate so furnishedj the supreme court or
special term thereof, held within said judicial district, may,
not oftener than once in six months, by order, apportion to
each county in said district such a portion of the stenograph
er's salary as the number of days during which one or more
terms were in session in that county bears to the whole num
ber of days during which the terms were in session in that
district since the last apportionment was made. Upon the pre
sentation of a certified copy of such an order each county
treasurer must pay to the stenographer, from the court fund,
or the fund from which jurors are paid, the sum so appor
tioned to his county.
§ 260. Each of those stenographers is also entitled to
payment of his actual and necessary expenses, while attend
ing court, including stationery and ten cents for each mile for
his actual travel, between the place of holding each term and
his residence, going and returning, or from term to term, as
the case may be. The amount thereof must be certified by
the judge holding or presiding at the term, and must be paid,
upon his certificate, by the treasurer of the county where the
term is held, from the court fund, or the fund from which
jurors are paid. But mileage shall not be computed beyond
the bounds of the judicial district, except where the usual
line of travel, from one point to another within that district,
passes partly through another judicial district.
§ 261. [Repealed.] The repeal to take effect on 1 Jan
uary, 1891.
§ 262. [Am'd 1890.] If an official stenographer shall not
be in attendance at a term of the circuit court, special term
of the supreme court, or court of oyer and terminer, where
issues of fact are triable, the justice presiding at the term
may in his discretion employ a stenographer who shall be paid
sucn compensation as the justice shall by his certificate fix,
not to exceed ten dollars for each day's attendance, and ten
cents for each mile for travel to and from his residence to the
place where the term is held, together with a reasonable sum
for his necessary expenses and stationery. The sum so fixed 
shall be a charge upon the county in which the term shall be
held, and shall be paid by the county treasurer upon such
certificate, from the court fund or the fund from which
jurors are paid. If an official stenographer of the judicial
district in which such term shall be held shall have been duly
assigned to attend such term, the justice shall cause an order
of the court to be entered at such term, that the portion of
the sum so paid by the county treasurer, which was allowed
for the per diem compensation for the services of the steno
grapher employed at such term, shall be deducted from the
salary of the official stenographer who shall have been so
assigned to attend such term, and the clerk of such county
shall transmit to the Comptroller a certified copy of such
order, and the Comptroller shall deduct such amount from
the salary of such official stenographer and pay the same to
the treasurer of said county.
§ 263. The civil jurisdiction of each of the superior city
1154, 1163, courts extends to the following actions and special proceed(«sol.Act. ings, in addition to the jurisdiction, power and authority con364
ferred upon it, in a particular case, by special statutory provi102N.Y. 38
s'on :
1. To an action of ejectment ; for the partition of real prop
erty ; for dower ; to foreclose a mortgage upon real property or upon a chattel real : to exmnpr' uk o"inaiBlw «** i faa
to real property : for waste : i-.ir & nuHau*-^ ■ w-ii nrwcirr* a.
judgment directing a couvex-anix- rf t*»l inwr- ai"
every other action to rera*rer. tp- v jr-ucu-* i. nitumr.n fttablishing, determining. 6>fniiiir. J rief-nu: ummlhnr "• om-r*wise affecting an estate, n^nr- iiut. liet or (TOte- nn^« a.
real property or a chattel rea^ lias juradirrti'iL an***-.* - uider this subdivision only where TAe rea. pwoi^TT^ t* vn.-i tut
action relates is situated wjtfam u«t cut vser* tut tar: 1- j.cated.
2. To an action for any otter cans'- wies»: tiit canst o* ai'tion arose within that city : it wnere tnt o^i-nmar ■• i. re*dent of that city ; or where ii»«r simuiijut it jfersunar; »»— re
upon the defendant therem ; or wbere me act**. *■ LT.>i.jrni
to recover a penalty, or for «it cru^r m» of acuta. £!'. *a.
by the charter, a by^aw or as "-dmano? «if -mur ?tt.
3. To an action to recover dairo-r^s '.rm nyuryv rea"
property, or a chattel rest! : or for lie iireaxa. of a etwriracL.
express or implied, relating to reawpr- •perry or n emme ream
where the real property tirmavid wiuui. una w. or rwrt
the defendant is a resident of tiiat city or -wiim; uit Hmmtai
is personally served upon the defencca:: Ui^rvu*
4. To an action to recover a chattel : i* foremw or enforce
a lien upon personal property; or Vl> rusxnrer daaiacet !■«■ aa
injury to personal property ; where ti»e property to wmeL u«r
action relates is situated within Uiat city at Lue tinte » net me
action is commenced. If tiie property oi«uiu»u> o5 out or more
shares in the capital stock of a aometiuc <?.»rp<«na.-*<ni »»r fuiistock association, whose prmt-ipaj \Axix of oufiioet** «>di;*-.j or
established within that city, or of» debt aut front, urwuwv.
or a thing in action, in the pymBcaioB <t under tiiv coutro -*
such a corporation or jomt-st/x.-k a**/.**.ial*iii. it i*- d*^in*-^ *-'■ I*
situated within that city, within the mwmmy of tint, mud: \ ision.
5. To a judgment creditor's action: where the judgment •i;>- lieJLT-SB.
on which the action is founded was recovered in the suine
court.
6. To an action for any cause brought by a resident of the
city wherein the court is located, against a natural person, who
is not a resident of the State.
7. To an action brought by a resident of that city against a
foreign corporation, either (one) to recover damages for the
breach of a contract, express or implied, or a sum payable by
the terms of a contract, express or implied where the "contract
was made, executed or delivered within the State, or where
the cause of action arose within the State ; or (two) where a
warrant of attachment, granted in the action, has been actu
ally levied within that city, upon property of the corporation ;
or (three) where the summons is served by delivery of a copy
thereof, within that city, to an officer of "the corporation, as
prescribed by law.
8. To the custody of the person and the care of the proper
ty, concurrently with the supreme court, of a person residing
in that crty, or residing without the State and sojourning in
that city, who is incompetent to manage his affairs by reason
of lunacy, idiocy, or habitual drunkenness ; and to any special
proceeding which the supreme court has jurisdiction to enter
tain, for the appointment of a committee of the person or
of the property of such an incompetent person, or for the sale
or other disposition of the real property, situated within that
city, of a person, wherever resident, who is so incompetent, or who is an infant ; or for the sale or other disposition of the
property, or the voluntary dissolution of a domestic corpora
tion, whose principal place of business is located or established
within that city ; or for the sale or other disposition of the real
property, situated within that city, of a domestic corporation,
wherever it is located.
9. To any other special proceeding which the supreme court
has jurisdiction to entertain, where the person against whom
it is brought is a resident of that city, I r the mandate by which
the special proceeding is commenced is personally served up
on him within that city, or all the acts or omissions upon which
it is founded were done or committed within that city, or
the subject thereof is situated within that city ; or where the
special proceeding is brought for such a purpose, or under
such circumstances that the superior city court would have
jurisdiction of an action for the like purpose, or under the like
circumstances, by the terms of subdivision first of this section.
§ 264. For the purpose of determining the jurisdiction of a
sol Act "" suPer'or c'ty court, in a case specified in the last section, a do
mestic corporation or joint-stock association, whose principal
1)lace of business is established, by or pursuant to a statute, or
>y its articles of association, or is actually located, within the
city wherein the court is located, is deemed a resident of that
city; and personal service of a summons, made within that city,
as prescribed in this act, or personal service of a mandate,
whereby a special proceeding is commenced, made within that
city, as prescribed in this act for personal service of a sum
mons, is sufficient service thereof upon a domestic corporation,
wherever it is located.
gust? <»»
§ 265. "Where an action or a special proceeding is brought
sol. A"t
against two or more parties, and the jurisdiction of a superior
city court depends upon the residence of a party, within the
city wherein the court is located ; or personal service upon him,
within that city, of the summons or the mandate for the com
mencement of the special proceeding ; or the levying of a
warrant of attachment within that city ; and jurisdiction is
thus acquired as against one or more, but not as against all of
them, the jurisdiction, with respect to the others, is governed
by the following rules :
1. Where the action or special proceeding is founded upon
a contract, upon which two or more persons are jointly liable,
and the court has or acquires jurisdiction thereof, as against
one of them, it has jurisdiction thereof as against all the per
sons so jointly liable. But this subdivision does not extend to
a case, where the liability is several, as well as joint.
2. Where an action or a special proceeding brought against
a public officer, together with one or more private persons, is
founded upon an official act or omission ; or where an action
or special proceeding brought against a corporation, together
with one or more natural persons, is founded upon an act or
omission of the corporation ; and the court has or acquires
jurisdiction thereof, as against the public officer or the cor
poration; it has jurisdiction thereof as against all persons,
who are necessary parties to the complete determination of
the controversy.
3. Where it is not necessary to the complete determination
of the controversy, that all the parties thereto should be
subjected to the jurisdiction of the court, the action or special
proceeding may be discontinued or dismissed, as to the par
ties over whom the court has not jurisdiction, and proceed as to the others, as if they were the only parties against
whom it was brought.
§ 266. The jurisdiction of a superior city court, ta an } ii».Codaction or a special proceeding brought therein, must always »l- Actbe presumedTlt is not necessary to set forth in a complaint «»«■ Pr
in such an action, or in the petition or other statement of the ,„ AW) v
case in such a special proceeding, any of the jurisdictional c ia
facts specified in section two hundred and sixty-three of this 102 j». r. 38.
act • and where the defendant in the action, or the person
against whom the special proceeding is instituted, appears,
the want of jurisdiction, by reason of the non-existence or
any of those facts, is a matter of defense, and is waived by
the appearance, unless it is pleaded in defense.
8 267. Where a superior city court has jurisdiction of an ' '"J1 f°n'
action or special proceeding, it possesses the same jurisdiction, •*"■ »"•
authority, and power, in and over the same, and m the course
of the proceedings therein, which the supreme court possesses
in a like case ; and it may render any judgment, or grant
either party any relief, which the supreme court might render
or grant in a like case, and may enforce its mandates in like
manner as the supreme court. And each judge of the superior
city court possesses the same power and authority, in the
action or special proceeding, which a justice of the supreme
court possesses, in a like action or special proceeding, brought
in the supreme court.
8 268. Each judge of a superior city court also possesses J 1131, Conthe same power and authority, in a special proceeding, which soL Act
can be lawfuUy instituted before him, out of court, which a
justice of the supreme court possesses in a like special pro
ceeding, instituted before him in like manner.
8 269. The supreme court may, by an order, made at any ? 1132, Contime after joinder of an issue of fact, and before the trial there- »»';*<*•
of remove to itself an action or a special proceeding pending 12 Hun, 633.
in a superior city court, for the purpose of changing the place
of trial or hearing thereof. Where an order for a removal is
made as prescribed in this section, the place of trial or hear
ing must be changed by the same order to another county. A
certified copy of the order must be filed in the office of the
clerk of the court, in which the action or special proceeding
was commenced. Thereupon it is removed into the supreme
court • and the subsequent proceedings therein must be the
same, as if it had been originally brought m the supreme
court.
8 270. An order for the removal of an action or special g 1133, Conproceeding, as prescribed in the last section, can be made sol. Act.
onlv upon notice, and by a special term of the supreme court,
wherethe motion might be made, if the action or special pro
ceeding was pending in the supreme court, and brought in the
county where the superior city court is located ; and in a
case where an order, changing in like manner the place of
trial or hearing, would be granted, if the action or special
proceeding was pending in the supreme court.
8 271. An appeal from an order, made upon such a g 1134, Conmotion, must be taken and heard in like manner, as if the sol. Act.
action or special proceeding was pending in the supreme
court, and triable in the county to which the place of trial is
changed. Such an appeal brings up to the general term, and
thence to the court of appeals, if the order is appealable to that court, all questions which were before the special term,
and the appellate tribunal must dispose of the same, as if they
were originally presented to it.
§ 272. An order to stay proceedings, for the purpose of
affording an opportunity to make such an application for
removal, may be made by a judge, authorized to make an
order to stay proceedings, either in the court where the action
or special proceeding is pending, or in the supreme court, and
with like effect, and under like circumstances.
§ 273. If all the judges of a superior city court are, for
anv reason, incapable of sitting upon the trial of an action, or
the hearing of a special proceeding pending therein, or if all, or
all but one, of the judges of a superior city court are incapable
of sitting upon the hearing of an appeal therein, the judges of
the court, or a majority of them, must make and file in the
office of the clerk of the court a certificate of the fact.
Thereupon the action or special proceeding is removed to the
supreme court ; and the subsequent proceedings therein must
be the same as if it had been originally brought in the supreme
court.
§ 274. The supreme court, where the parties manifest in
writing their consent, must make an order directing that an
action or special proceeding, pending in that court and triable
in a county where a superior city court is located, be removed
to the superior city court, or, in the city of New York, to
either of those courts therein, as specified in the consent. A
certified copy of the order must be filed in the office of the
clerk of the court to which the action or special proceeding is
ordered to be removed. Thereupon it is removed accord
ingly ; and all subsequent proceedings therein must be the
same as if it had been originally brought in the superior city
court.
§ 275. Where an action or special proceeding is removed
from one court to another, as prescribed in this article, the
clerk of the court from which it is removed must forthwitli
deliver to the clerk of the court to which it is removed all
papers filed therein, and certified copies of all minutes and
entries relating thereto, which must be filed, entered, or re
corded, as the case requires, in the office of the last mentioned
clerk. If the action or special proceeding is removed to the
supreme court, and the place of trial or hearing changed, the
delivery must be made to the clerk of the county in which the
order of removal directs the trial or hearing to be had.
§ 276. The removal of an action or special proceeding, as
prescribed in this article, does not invalidate or in auy manner
impair, a process, provisional remedy, or other proceeding,
or a bond, undertaking, or recognizance, in the action or
special proceeding so removed ; each of which contitiues to
have the same validity and effect as if the removal had not
been made. Where bail has been given, the surrender of the
defendant in the court to which the action or special proceed
ing was removed, has the same effect as a surrender in the
court from which it was removed would have had if the
action or special proceeding had remained therein.
£ 277. In an action or special proceeding brought in a
superior city court, an order may be made without notice, or
an order to stay proceedings may be made upon notice by
the county judge of the county where the court is situated, or of the county where the attorney for the applicant resides, in
a c-I« Xre a judge of the superior c,ty court might make
the same out of court, and with like effect.
§ 278 A superior city court has power, in an action or ( uth c*r
Mx.cialproceedf..g of which it has jurisdiction *<>*"••" "-J -.1. Act.
Process and other mandates into any county of the Stat.-, f.«£rviS or execution, and to enforce obedience thereto, w.th
like power and authority as the supreme court.
8 279 A special proceeding, instituted before a judge of
theWrior rourt of Buffalo, or the city court of Brr**lvn or
"prodding commenced before a judge of either of those
courts out of court, in an action or special proceeding pend££ta\°"courtVmay be continued, from tune to time before
on% or more other judges of the same court, as prescribed by
aw, w*h respect to like proceedings, before a judge of a
court of record in the city of New York.
8 280 The judges of each superior city court, or a ma- giH2,1172,
iority of them, must, from time to time appoint the times for vow*,!.**.
olX- the general special, and trial terms of their c«rt.
They must alio assign the judges to hold each of the torn.*,
an7dSSSiate the trial terms at which .SHues of fact arc
tri»We hv a iurv A general, a special, and one or more trial
W may oe appointed to be hern, and may be held, at the
§ im7time The judges, or a majority of them, must also apSomt reasonable times, when a judge: must attend^at charnEers, and designate the udge to attend for that purpose^
§ appointment, made as prescribed in this section, must
SeS^by the 'judg^ malcing the same and filed m the
Herkfoffice A copy thereof must be published m the newsPaper printed in Albany, in which legal notices are required
to be published, and in two newspapers printed in the city
where the court is located, at least once in each week for
three successive weeks, before a term is held by virtue thereof.
§ 281 A general term of a superior city court must be J 1143, Conheld by at least two judges. Two must concur to determine »ol. Act.
a cause • otherwise it must be reheard ; except that if the re
maining judge or judges are disqualified to sit upon an apiT the judgment or order appealed from must be affirmed,
unless a rehearing is directed.
8 282 A special term or a trial term of a superior city $ 1144, Concourt must be held by one judge.
sol. Act.
8 283. When the chief-judge of a superior city court cer- , u46 Con.
tiHes that a book of minutes, records, indices, or dockets of 8ol, Act.
iud^nents, in the office of the clerk of the court, has become
in mutilated, or injured, that it cannot be conveniently used
or correctly examined^ the clerk of the court must cause a
copy thereof to be maue. The expense of making the copy,
not exceeding ten cents for each folio, is a charge, in the city
ofNe^Tork" upon that city, and in the city ofBuffalo, or the
citv of Brooklyn, upon the county where the court is located ;
anaftmustbepaJtTby the Comptroller of the city of New
Vork or the county treasurer, as the case requires, upon the
certificate of the clerk, that the copy was made pursuant to
his direction. The copy, when certified by the clerk to be a
correct copy of the original, has, presumptively, the effect of
the original? The original must be preserved, and may be re
ferred to at any time, by the direction of a judge ot the court.
§ 284. Each superior city court has a clerk, who is apil77, Con- pointed, and may be removed at pleasure, by the judges of
sol. Act.
the court, or a majority of them. Each clerk, by a writing
under his hand and the seal of the court, filed in his office,
must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a deputy-clerk.
The deputy-clerk has all the powers, and may perform all the
duties of the clerk, when the office of clerk is vacant, or at the
clerk's office, when the clerk is absent therefrom, or at a term
or sitting of the court, which the deputy-clerk attends. Each
clerk and each deputy-clerk must subscribe and file in the
clerk's office, the Constitutional oath of office ; and is entitled
to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law.
§ 285. [ArtVd 1879.] A special-deputy clerk of a supe|ni Vet n" r'or c"y c°urt, appointed as prescribed by law; posseses the
same powers as the clerk, at a sitting or term of the court
which he attends, with respect to the business transacted
thereat.
§ 286. [ArtVd 1877.] In addition to the jurisdiction de1154, 1163, fined in sections two hundred and sixty-three, two hundred
Consol. Act. an(j sixty -four and two hundred and sixty-five of this act, the
court of common pleas for the city and county of New York,
has power and jurisdiction to vacate and set aside a judgment
entered in any court held within that city and county, upon a
forfeited recognizance, upon the terms and conditions specially
prescribed by law for that purpose ; to remit a fine or forfeited
recognizance, in a case where a county court can remit the
same, and in like manner ; and to entertain any special pro
ceeding, which, in any county except New York, may be in
stituted in the county court.
§ j1*3 Con"
§287. The court of common pleas for the city and county
301 Hun 491 of New York, and the superior court of the city of New York,
consist of six judges for each court ; one of whom must from
time to time, as a vacancy occurs, be appointed chief-judge
of his court, as prescribed in the Constitution.
J 1148 Con8 288. The clerk of each of those courts may appoint and
sol. Act.
at pleasure remove, such special deputy-clerks and other as
sistants, as he deems necessary ; but a special deputy-clerk or
an assistant, so appointed, is not entitled to any compensation
out of the treasury of the city of New York, unless his com
pensation is fixed by law, or allowed pursuant to law.
■ l'1!9 tC°n
§ 28©. The judges of each of those courts, or a majority
|°('.jve pro of them, must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a ste406.
nographer for each term of the court, for the trial of issues of
fact, constituting a distinct part. Each stenographer so ap
pointed is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed
by law. He must attend all the sittings of tne part for which
he is appointed. If the judge requires a copy of any proceed
ings, written out at length from the stenographic notes, he may make an order directing one-half of the stenographr-'^
fees therefore. to be paid hy each of the parties to the anion or
special proceeding, at the rate of ten cents for each to**' *«
written oat. and mar enforce payment thereof I' ther* ;;rr
two or more parties on the same side, the orrie~ may direct
either of them to pay the sum payable by their writ, for thr
stenographer's fees, or it may apportion the payment thereof
among them, as the judge deem- just
§ 280. The judge who holds an extraordinary tr»: term
of either of those courts, must appoint a stenographer fo- thu:
term, who is subject to all the provisions of law reiatinc to at,
assistant stenographer, and is entitled to a compensatiot. al
the rate and in the manner prescribed by law for the offi
cial stenographer.
§ 281. The judges of each of those courts, or a majority
of them, must appoint, and may at pleasure removt, one crier
for their court. Each crier so appointed is entitled to a sal
ary. fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law. fie it not en
titled to any other compensation.
§ 292. In addition to the jurisdiction defined in sections
two hundred and sixty-three, two hundred and sixty-four.
and two hundred and sixty-five of this act. the junsdiet k>i, of
the superior court of Buffalo extends to the following actions
and special proceedings :
1. To an action founded upon a contract., where the defend
ant, or, if there are two or more defendants, where either of
them, is a resident of that city, or occupies a tenement for
the transaction of his or their ordinary business, in that city ;
or where the summons is served upon either of them in that
city ; or where the contract was made in that city.
2. To an action for any other cause, where toe defendant,
or, if there are two or more defendants, where all the defend
ants proceeded against, occupy a tenement in that, city, for
the transaction of their ordinary business.
3. To an action to recover damages against oneor more com
mon carriers, not beiug residents of the State, where the
defendant, or, if there are two or more defendants jointly
liable, where one of them has pro|>orty in that city.
4. To an action against a domestic corporation, which trans
acts its general business in that city, or has an office or
agency in that city, for the transaction of business ; or against
a foreign corporation, which has property in that city, or an
agency' therein,
5. To an action or special proceeding against the city of
Buffalo, or an officer thereof.
§ 293. The court also posseses and exercises, within the
city of Buffalo, in any matter which arises, or the subject
whereof is located or situated within that city, jurisdiction,
power and authority, concurrent and co extensive with those
conferred upon the supreme court, in a like case, by any
statutory provision.
§ 294. The court also possesses exclusive jurisdiction and
power as follows :
1. Where an action, commenced in a justice's court in the
city of Buffalo, has been discontinued upon the delivery of an
undertaking, because the title to real property came in ques
tion, it possesses exclusive jurisdiction of an action for the
same cause, brought pursuant to the undertaking.
3. It has exclusive power to remit a fine imposed or a rec
ognizance estreated by it.
§ 295. The court consists of three judges ; one of whom
must, from time to time, as a vacancy occurs, be appointed
chief judge, as prescribed in the Constitution.
§ 293. At least four general terms and six trial terms of
the court must be appointed to be held in each year.
§ 297. [An/I'd 1879.] An issue of law in an action in the
court must be tried at the general term.
§ 298. The clerk of the court is entitled, in addition to his
salary, for any service performed by him, to the fee allowed
by law to a county clerk, for a similar service, performed in
the supreme court, or the court of oyer and terminer.
§ 299. Where the deputy-clerk of the court dies, resigns,
removes from the city, is removed from office, or becomes
otherwise incapable of acting, the clerk must appoint a de]>uty-clerk in his place. The clerk, if the judges of the court,
or a majority of them, deem it necessary for the proper trans
action of its business, from time to time must appoint, aud
may at pleasure remove, in the manner prescribed by law for
the appointment and removal of a deputy-clerk ; a special
deputy -clerk, whose compensation must be paid by the clerk.
§ 300. [AirVd 1880.1 The judges of the court, or a major
ity of them, must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a
stenographer of the court and an assistant stenographer who
is entitled to a salary fixed and to be paid as prescribed by
law. He or his assistant must attend each term of the court
where issues of fact in civil or criminal causes are triable, and
shall report and transcribe opinions for the judges of said
court, or either of them, when required, without additional
compensation; and shall, within twenty days after notice by
a party that he intends to appeal, move for a new trial, or
make a case or a bill of exceptions in any action or special
proceeding in which a trial has been had in said court, Hie
with the clerk of said court a transcript of the minutes taken
by him on such trial. The stenographer making such transcript
.shall be entitled, upon the certificate of the judge holding the
court at which the trial took place, to receive the sum of six
cents for each one hundred words of such transcript, to be
paid as follows :
1. In a civil action or special proceeding by the treasurer of
the city of Buffalo. '£. In a criminal action or special proceeding by the county treasurer of the county of Eric : provided,
however, that no greater sum than one thousand dollar* shall
be paid out in any one year for the transcripts of tie stenojii iihie minutes to be made and hied pursuant to the pro
visions of this act.
§ 301. [Am'd 1S88.] The judges, »r a majority >fth«-in.
from time to time, must appoint, and may at pleasure nimif,
a crier for the court, who is entitled to a salary fixed and to
be paid as prescribed by law, and an officer for the o u-t v he
shall perform such duties as the court shall prescribe. He
shall receive an annual salary of one thousand dollar*, which
shall bepaid by the city of Buffalo ax other city office! * are
paid. He shall take the oath of office prescribed by the Ccostitution, and shall possess all the powers of a patrolman of
the city of Buffalo. The said officers shall receive no O/mpensation except their respective salaries.
§ 302. The sheriff of the county of Erie, or bis undersheriff, or a deputy-sheriff, designated by him, and as many
policemen of the city of Buffalo, as the court directs, must at
tend each term of the court. A policeman, in attendance
upon a term of the court, may, under the direction of the
judge presiding at or holding the term, notify talesmen or
additional jurors, and execute a mandate of the court, i<«-u«d
in a case of contempt, with like effect and in like manner a-> if
he was the sheriff. But a policeman is not entitled U» .my
fees, or other compensation, except his salary, for a serv.ee
performed by him, as prescribed in this section.
§ 303 [Am,d 1880, 1887.] The chief judge, or m case of
his inability from any cause to act, then one of the o'h'-T
judges, and the clerk of the court, together with the assesw.rn
of the city of Buffalo, must in the month of May in each yiir,
meet at the assessor's office and make out, certify and file in
the clerk's office, a list of not less than six hundred resident*
of that city, not exempt fromjury duty, and qualified to serve
as trial jurors in the court. The persons named in such list
must be selected from those assessed on the last annual ward
assessmentrolls of the city, and in making such selection they
shall take the names of such only as are :
1. Male citizens of the United States and residents of the
city.
2. Not less than twenty-one, nor more than sixty years of
age,
3. At the time, assessed for personal property belonging to
them in their own right to the amount of two hundred and
fifty dollars, or who shall have a freehold estate in real prop
erty in the county of Erie belonging to them in their own
right, or in the right of their wives, to the value of one hun
dred and fifty dollars.
4. In the possession of their natural faculties, and not in
firm or decrepit.
5. Free from all legal exceptions, of fair character, of
approved integrity, of sound judgment, well informed, and
able to read and write the English language understanding!}-,
and whose name does not appear on the list of jurors drawn
for the circuit court for the county of Erie. Only such per
sons as shall possess the above qualifications, and who have
not served twelve days the previous year as trial jurors in
this court, shall be qualified to serve as trial jurors. The
court at any term thereof, may make an order directing the assessors and clerk of the court to meet with one of the judges
and to make out, certify and file in the clerk's office, within a
time specified in the order, a new list of jurors, or a list of
any number of additional jurors ; and it may punish an omis
sion to obey such order as a contempt. The list made out in
pursuance of the provisions of this section shall contain the
Christian and surname at length of the persons named there
in, their respective places of residence and their several occu
pations in so far as the same can be ascertained.
§ 304. [>im'dl887.] At least fourteen days before the
time appointed for holding a term of the court, where issues of
fact in civil or criminal causes are triable, the clerk of the
court, in the presence of a judge thereof must draw from the
list so returned by the assessors, the names of sixty persons
or such other number as the court, at any term thereof directs
to serve as trial jurors. The drawing must be conducted as
prescribed by law for the drawing of trial jurors by a eountv
clerk, except that notice thereof is not necessary A list of
the names of the persons so drawn must be certified bv the
attending judge and the clerk, and delivered to the sheriff of
Erie comity, who shall thereupon notify each of the persons
named in said list, in the manner prescribed by law fornotifv
ing a juror to attend a term of the circuit court, and shall at
the same time notify such person to attend before said iud^e
or one of the judges of the court, at the chambers thereof "at
a time mentioned in said notice to be fixed by the judge pres
ent at the drawing of such trial jurors, and which shall be
stated in the list delivered to the sheriff, not less than ei<»ht
days before the time appointed for the holding of a term of
said court, for the purpose of answering concerning his quali
fications as a juror. A person so notified must attend and
answer accordingly. If he fails to attend as specified in the
notice, for any cause except physical inability, or some other
cause satisfactory to the judge, or if he refuses to be sworn
or to answer any legal or pertinent question put to him bv the
judge, he shall be guilty of contempt, and punished accord
ingly.
At the time mentioned in said notice, the iudge
shall examine upon oath, all such persons as appear before
him pursuant to such notice for the purpose of ascertaining
whether they possess the qualifications for jurors prescribed
by law, and may in his discretion, direct the clerk to take
the deposition of such persons ; and all such depositions shall
be filed by the clerk in his office. All applications to be
excused from service as such juror, and all claims for ex
emption from service as such juror must be made by the
person so notified to appear at this time. Persons not quali
fied to act as jurors pursuant to the provisions of this act and
persons claiming exemption for any cause and satisfying the
judge of their right to such exemption, shall be excused from
serving as jurors. From the number thus found to be qualified
to serve as jurors, the judge and clerk shall make a list the
names of thirty-six persons, who shall have been drawn to
serve as trial jurors, and shall certify and file the list with the
clerk, and the persons so selected and certified shall consti
tute the trial jurors for that term, and the names of those
persons not disqualified shall be returned to the box Persons
who appear before a judge for examination, pursuant to the
provisions of this section, shall be entitled to the same fees as
jurors summoned to attend a term of the circuit court The
judge holding a term may in his discretion, excuse a trial juror from service for a limited time at that term, where the
exigencies of his business or other cause require his tempor
ary absence. The judge may also discharge for the term,
one or more jurors notified and attending, whose further
attendance is not required for the trial of issues at that term,
or he may discharge until a day certain, one or more jurors
notified and attending, whose attendance will not be required
for the trial of issues until that day. Each juror so discba r«:ed until a certain day must attend, upon the opening of the
court on that day and thereafter until he is discharged, with
out further notice. If he fails to so do, he is liable to the same
punishment and the same proceedings must be taken as if be
had failed to attend at the time fixed in the notice given to
him. Except as above provided a court or judge shall not ex
cuse a person liable to serve as a trial juror, and duly drawn
and notified, unless it be shown by the oath of the juror, or by
the oath of another person acquainted with the facts, that
the cause for his excuse did not exist at the time he was re
quired to appear before the judge at chambers.
§ 305. lAm'd 1887.] The sheriff must notify each of the
persons drawn as trial jurors as provided by section three
hundred and four of this act, as prescribed by'law for notify
ing a juror drawn to attend a term of the circuit court. Before the day fixed for the juror to appear before the judge as
provided by section three hundred and four, the sheriff must
file the list with the clerk, accompanied with his return,
specifying who were notified and the manner in which each
person was notified. The clerk must make the same disposi
tion of the ballots containing the names of the jurors who
have served, of those who did not appear, and of those who
were discharged, as prescribed by law with respect to the
circuit court. Each juror attending a term of the court must
be paid by the county of Erie, the same compensation as a
juror attending the circuit court.
§ 306. At a term where issues of fact, in civil or criminal
causes, are triable, the court may, in its discretion, direct
additional jurors to be drawn from any list returned by the
assessors, and require the sheriff, or a policeman in attend
ance upon the term, forthwith to notify them to attend ; and
if a person so drawn cannot be found, the court may cause
his name to be returned to the box.
§ 307. The city court of Brooklyn consists of three judges;
one of whom must, from time to time, as a vacancy occurs, be
appointed chief-judge of the court, as prescribed in the Con
stitution.
§ 308 . The court is always open for the transaction of
any business, for which notice is not required to be given to
an adverse party. At least ten terms thereof, for the trial of issues of law or of fact, must be appointed to be held in each
year.
§ 309. The judges of the court, or a majority of them
may appoint as many special deputy-clerks and assistants iii
the clerk's office as they deem necessary. Each officer so
appointed is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as pre
scribed by law.
§ 310. The clerk of the court is entitled, in addition to
his salary, for any service performed by him, to the fee
allowed by law to a county clerk, for a similar service.
§ 811. [Am'd 1879.] The sheriff of the county of Kin<*s.
his under-sheriff, or a deputy-sheriff designated by him must
attend each term or sitting of the court. If a deputy-sheriff
is designated to attend he shall be entitled to the same
compensation as is allowed by law to messengers and attend
ants upon said court and shall be paid in the same manner
The judge or judges holding the term may require more than
one deputy-sheriff to attend should it be deemed necessary.
§ 312. The expenses of the court are a county charge
and must be allowed and paid in like manner as other couutv
charges.
§ 313. The judges of the court, or a majority of them,
from time to time must appoint, and may at pleasure remove
one or two stenographers, as they deem it necessary for the
business of the court. Each stenographer so appointed is
entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law
He must attend each term of the court, where issues of fact in
civil or criminal causes are triable. If two stenographers are
appointed, the judges of the court must assign to each his
share of the business. A stenographer may, with the assent
of the judges of the court, or a majority of them, appoint an
assistant-stenographer, to aid him in the discharge of his
duties, whose compensation is payable by the stenographer
and is not a county charge.
f315. lAm'd 1877.] The jurisdiction of the marine court i iHM,MiVd
he city of New York extends to the followiug cases :
*> Con»ol.
1. An action against a natural person, or against a foreign
c '
or domestic corporation, wherein the complaint demands judg
ment for a sum of money only, or to recover one or more
chattels, with or without damages for the taking or detention
thereof.
2. An action to foreclose or enforce a lien upon real property
in the city of New York, created, as prescribed by statute, in
favor of a person, who has performed labor upon, or furnished
materials to be used in the construction, alteration, or repair
of a building, vault, wharf, fence, or other structure ; or who
has graded, filled in, or otherwise improved, a lot of land, or
the sidewalk or street in front of or adjoining a lot of land.
3. An action to foreclose or enforce a lien, for a sum not
exceeding two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest, upon
one or more chattels.
4. The taking and entry of a judgment, upon the confession
of one or more defendants, where the sum, for which judg
ment is confessed, does not exceed two thousand dollars,
exclusive of interest from the time of making the statement,
upon which the judgment is entered.
§ 316. lAm'd\m, 1889.] The jurisdiction conferred by 8 1209, Conthe last section is subject to the following limitations and sol. Act.
regulations :
1. In an action wherein the complaint demands judgment
for a sum of money only, the sum for which judgment is
rendered in favor of the plaintifff, cannot exceed two thousand
dollars, exclusive of interest, and costs as taxed ; except where
It is brought upon a bond or undertaking, given in an action
or special proceeding in the same court, or before a justice
thereof ; or to recover damages for a breach of promise of
marriage ; or where it is a marine cause, as that expression is
defined in the next section. Where the action is brought upon
a bond or other contract, the judgment must be for the sum
actually due, without regard to a penalty therein contained ;
and, where the money is payable in instalments successive
actions may be brought for the instalments as they become
due.
2. In an action to recover one or more chattels, a judgment
cannot be rendered in favor of the plaintifff, for a chattel or
chattels, the aggregate value of which exceeds two thousand
dollars
§ 317. The following actions are styled in this act, ma- |0i"acI.
rine causes, and the court possesses the same jurisdiction of 2N.Y.Supp.
such an action, as the supreme court of the State :
620.
1. An action in favor of a person, belonging to a vessel in
the merchant service, against the owner, master, or comman
der thereof, for the reasonable value of services, or for the
breach of a contract to pay for services, rendered or' to be
rendered on board of the vessel, during a voyage, wholly or
partly performed, or intended to be performed by it.
2. An action in favor of or against a person, belonging to or
on board of a vessel in the merchant service, to recover' dam
ages for an assault, battery, or false imprisonment, committed
on board the vessel, upon the high seas, or in a place without
the United States.
But this section does not confer upon the marine court authority to proceed, as a court of admiralty or maritime ju
risdiction.
§ 318. The court has not, nor has either of the justices
thereof, power to naturalize an alien.
§ 310. The supreme court, at a term held in the first judicial district, may, by an order made at any time after joinder of an issue of fact, and before the trial thereof, remove to
itself an action brought in the marine court, for the purpose of
changing the place of trial thereof. Where an order for re
moval is made, as prescribed in this section, the place of trial
must be changed by the same order to another county, and
the subsequent proceedings therein must be the same as if the
action had been originally brought in the supreme court. The
provisions of sections three hundred and forty-four, three
hundred and forty-flve and three hundred and forty-six of
ihis act, apply to an application to remove such an action, and
to the proceedings upon and subsequent to the removal, as if
the marine court was specified in those sections in place of
the county court, and a justice thereof in place of the county
judge.
§ 320. [Am'd 1877.] The court consists of six justices, one
0f wnom is the chief-justice of the court. Each justice must
perform his share of the labors and duties appertaining to the
office. One of the justices must attend at the chambers of the
court, from ten o'clock in the morning until four o'clock in the
afternoon of each day, except Sunday, a public holiday, or a
day upon which the inhabitants of the city of New York gen
erally refrain from business. Each justice, while in the rooms
of the court, and not actually engaged in the performance of
other official duties, must act upon any application for his of
ficial action, properly made to him. The justice, assigned to
a trial term or a special term, must remain in attendance, un
til the day calendar is disposed of, or for such other time as is
reasonable.
§ 321. Where it appears presumptively, to the satisfaction
°^ *'ne Governor, that a justice of the court has been guiltjy of
corruption, or other gross misconduct in office ; or habitually
neglects to perform his share of the labors and duties apper
taining to the office ; or is incapable of properly discharging
the same ; the Governor may, in his discretion, make an order,
suspending that justice from the exercise of the duties of his
office, and directing that his compensation cease. Such an
order must recite the grounds upon which it is made ; and it
remains in force, unless it is sooner revoked by the Governor,
until the final adjournment of the next session of the Legisla
ture ; or, if the Legislature is then in session, until the final ad
journment of that session.

§ 1217, Con§ 322. The justices of the court, or a majority of them
sol. Act.
must, from time to time, as a vacancy occurs in the office of
chief-justice, designate one of their number to be chief-justice.
A certificate of the designation, under the hands of the jus
tices making the same, must be filed in the office of the clerk
of the court. The person so designated shall be chief-jus
tice during his term of office. The chief-justice has the like
authority, within the jurisdiction of the. court, as a presiding
justice of the supremo court ; and when he is present and is
not disqualified, he must preside at a general term.
§ 323. The justices of the court, or a majority of them,
may, from time to time, establish rules of practice for the
court, not inconsistent with this act, or with the general rule*
of practice, established as prescribed in section seventeen of
this act. The latter govern the practice in the court, a-s far
as they are applicable thereto.
§ 324. The court is always open for the transaction of any
business, for which notice is not required to be given to an adverse party. The justices of the court, or a majority of thcin,
from time to time must appoint, and may alter, the times of
holding general, special, and trial terms of thecourt. They must
prescribe the duration of the terms ; designate the trial* terms
at which jurors are required to attend ; and assign the justice
or justices to preside and attend, at each of the terms so ap
pointed. In case of the inability of a justice to preside or at
tend, another justice may preside or attend in his place. Each
trial and special term must be held by one justice ; and each
general term by at least two justices. Two or more general,
special, or trial terms may be appointed to be held at the same
time. The concurrence of two justices is necessary to pro
nounce a decision at a general term. If two do not concur, a
re-argument must be ordered. The justices holding a general
term may order a re-argument, before themselves, or at a
subsequent general term, of a cause heard by them, or at a
previous general term.
§ 325. Each term so appointed must be held at the city
hall in the city of New York, except that auxiliary or additional parts for the transaction of any business specified in
the appointment, may be held elsewhere within the city of
New York, as designated in the appointment. An appoint
ment must be published in two newspapers, published in the
city of New York, at least once in each week, for three suc
cessive weeks, before a term is held in pursuance thereof.
§ 323. Each of the justices mav, within the city of New
York, administer an oath, or take a deposition, or the acknowledgement or proof of the execution of a written instrument,
and certify the same, in like manner and with like authority
and effect, as a justice of the supreme court.
§ 327. In an action brought in the court, an order cannot
be made, or a warrant of attachment granted, by an officer,
other than a justice of the court ; and each provision of this
act, which empowers an officer, other than a judge of the
court in which an action is brought, to make an order therein,
must be construed as being exclusive of an action brought in
the marine court.
§ 328. [Am'd 1801.] The court has a clerk, who is appointed and may be removed at pleasure, by the justices
thereof, or a majority of them. He must, by a written instrument under his hand, filed in his office, appoint, and may at
pleasure remove, three deputy clerks and not more than
eleven assistants. The clerk is responsible for the faithful
discharge of his duty by each deputy clerk and eneli assistant.
The clerk, each deputy clerk, and each assistant is entitled
to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law.
§ 329. lAm'd 1877.] The clerk, and also each deputyclerk, before he enters upon the duties of his office, must subscribe, and file in the office of the clerk of the city and county
of New York, the Constitutional oath of office. The [each] deputy-clerk has all the powers, and may perform all the
duties of the clerk, when the office of clerk is vacant, or at
the clerk's office when the clerk is absent therefrom, or at a
term or sitting of the court which the deputy-clerk attends.
M22S Con§330. [Am'd 1877.] The clerk may designate as many of
sol. Act
Ills assistants as the justices of the court, or a majority of
them, deem necessary, as special deputy-clerks. Each spe
cial deputy-clerk possesses, in the absence of the clerk and a
deputy-clerk, the same powers as the clerk, at any sitting or
term of the court which he attends, with respect to the busii transacted thereat.
LJ2ActC°n"
§ 331. [Am'd 1877.] The clerk must receive, for the use
of the city of New York, the fees allowed by law. He shall
not perform any service, for which a fee is allowed by law,
until the fee therefore is paid to him. He must, on the first
day of each mouth, or within three days thereafter, render to
the Comptroller of the city, an account, under oath, of all
fees received, directly or indirectly, during the preceding
month, by him, or by a deputy-clerk, or either of his assist
ants, for any official service ; and he must, at the same time,
pay the same into the treasury of the city of New York.
When the return and payment are so made, the clerk is en
titled to receive his compensation, for the period included in
the return. He is not entitled to compensation for a period
for which he has not made his return and payment.
soI.^clTs"
§ 332. [AnVd 1877.] The clerk of the court must appoint
amend'd by three stenographers of the court, and may at pleasure remove
L. 1889, o either of them. The justices of the court, or a majority of
19.
them, must from time to time assign each of the stenogra
phers to duty at the trial terms.
Each stenographer is
entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by
law. He must attend each term to which he is assigned.
3 1228 Con§ 333. [Am'd 1877.] The clerk of the court from time to
sol. Act.
time must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, an official
interpreter of the court, who is entitled to a salary, fixed and
to be paid as prescribed by law. Before entering upon his
official duties, lie must subscribe, and file in the office of the
clerk of the city and county of New York, the Constitutional
oath of office. He must attend any trial or special term of
the court, where his services are required ; and the justices of
the court, or a majority of them, may, by order, regulate his
attendance.
j> 1229, Con§ 334. If the official interpreter knowingly and willfully,
sol. Act.
falsely interprets any evidence, matter, or thing, between a
witness and the court, or a justice thereof, in the course of an
action or special proceeding, he is guilty of perjury.
3 1230 Con§ 335. [.■iniM 1K77.] The clerk of the court must appoint,
sol. Act.
and may at pleasure remove as iniiny attendants upon the
31 Hun, 215. court as he deems necessary, not exceeding thirteen. The
87N.Y.4<>9. justices of the court, or a majority of them, may regulate
their attendance. Each attendant is entitled to a salary,
lixed and to l>o paid as prescribed by law.
a loii f
loii »„i
sol.
" Act.
'

§ 336. The clerk, the deputy-clerk, an assistant to the
clerk, the official interpreter, or an attendant, shall not receive any fee or compensation, except his salary, for any
. pfllcial service performed by him.
§ 337. [Am'd 1877.] A justice of the court may, by an
instrument under his hand, suspend a stenographer, or an
officer specified in the last section, for a period not exceeding
ten days from the filing thereof. Such an instrument must
express the cause of the suspension ; it must be filed in the
office of the clerk of the city and county of New York ; and
it may be revoked, at any time before the expiration of the
period of suspension, by an instrument filed in like manner,
under the hand of the justice who executed the first instru
ment, or the hands of a majority of the justices of the court.
Where such an instrument has been revoked, the officer shall
not be again suspended for the same cause.
§ 338. A mandate of the court can be executed only
within the city of New York, except as follows :
1. An execution upon a judgment rendered therein, for a
sum exceeding twenty-five dollars, may be issued out of the
court, tested in the name of the chief-justice thereof, to the
sheriff of any county, wherein the judgment has been duly
docketed.
2. A subpoena may be served within either of the counties of
Richmond, Kings, Queens, or Westchester.
3. A warrant to apprehend a witness for a failure to obey a
subpoena, may be executed by the sheriff of the city and
county of New York, or a marshal of that city, within either
of those counties.
4. An order duly made, in an action pending in the court,
requiring the performance of an act by a party thereto, or by
an officer, may be served upon a person bound to obey the
order, and his obedience thereto may be required in any part
of the State.
,
5. An order to show cause, why a person should not be pun
ished for a contempt of the court, may be served by any
person in any part of the State.
6. A warrant to apprehend, and bring before the court, a
person charged with such a contempt, may be executed by the
sheriff of the city and county of New York, or a marshal of
that city, in any part of the State.
§ 330. In an action brought in the court, an order of ar- , 
rest, a warrant of attachment, an execution, or a requisition j | A'ct
to replevy a chattel, must be directed to and executed by the
sheriff. Any other mandate, which must have been directed
to and executed by the sheriff of the city and county of Ni'w
York, if it issued out of the supreme court, may, where it
issues out of the marine court, be directed to and executed
either by that sheriff, or a marshal of that city, named there
in. A marshal is entitled to the same fees as the sheriff, upon
a mandate directed to him, or upon the service of a summons;
and each provision of law, relating to the execution of a man
date by the sheriff, and the power and control of the court
over the sheriff executing the same, applies to the marshal.
The return of a marshal to such a mandate, or his certificate
of the execution thereof, or of the service of any paper served
by him, has the same force and effect as the like return and
certificate of a sheriff.
R 340. [Arid 1877.] * The jurisdiction of each county court
extends to the following actions and special proceedings, in
addition to the jurisdiction, power, and authority, conferred
upon a county court, in a particular case, by special statutory
provision :
l. To an action for the partition of real property ; for dower ;
for the foreclosure, redemption, or satisfaction of a mortgage
upon real property ; or to procure a judgment requiring the
specific performance of a contract, relating to real property ;
where thereal property^ to which the action relates, is situated
within the county ; or to foreclose a lien upon a chattel, in a
case specified in section seventeen hundred and thirty-seven
of this act, where the lien does not exceed one thousand dol
lars in amount, and the chattel is found within the county.
2. To an action in favor of the executor, administrator or
assignee of a judgment creditor, or, in a proper case, in favor
of the judgment creditor to recover a judgment for money
remaining due upon a judgment rendered in the same court.
3. To an action for any other cause, where the defendant is,
or, if there are two or more defendants, where all of them are,
at the time of the commencement of the action, residents of the
county, and wherein the complaint demands judgment for a
sum of money only, not exceeding one thousand dollars ; or
to recover one or more chattels, the aggregate value of which
does not exceed one thousand dollars, with or without dam
ages for the taking or detention thereof.
4. To the custody of the person and the care of the property,
concurrently with the supreme court, of a resident of the
county, who is incompetent to manage his affairs, by reason
of lunacy, idiocy, or habitual drunkeness ; and to every spe
cial proceeding, which the supreme court has jurisdiction to
entertain, for the appointment of a committee of the person
or of the property, of sr.eh an incompetent person, or lor the
sale or other disposition of the real property, situated within
the county, of a person, wherever resident, who is so incompe
tent for either oi the causes aforesaid, or who is an infant ; or
for the sale or other disposition of the real property, situated
within the county, of a domestic religious corporation.
J5 341. For the purpose of determining the jurisdiction of
a county court, in either of the cases specified in the last sei?tion, a domestic corporation or joint-stock association, whose
principal place of business is established, by or pursuant to a
statute, or by its articles of association, or is actually located
within the county, is deemed a resident of the county, and
personal service of a summons, made within the county, us
prescribed in this act, or personal service of a mandate,
whereby a special proceeding is commenced, made within
the county, as prescril>ed in this act for personal service of
a summons, is sufficient service thereof upon a domestic
corporation, wherever it is located.
§342. [Am'd 1877.] If the county judge is, for any cause,
incapable to act in an action or special proceeding, pending
in the county court, or before him, he must make, and file in the
office of the clerk, a certificate of the fact ; and thereupon the
special county judge, if any, and if not disqualified, must act
as county judge in that action or special proceeding. Upon
the filing of the certificate, where there is no special county
judge, or the special county judge is disqualified, the actiou
or special proceeding is removed to the supreme court, if it is
then pending in the county court ; if it is pending before the
county judge, it may be continued Wefore any justice of the
supreme court within the same judicial district. The supreme
court, upon the application of either party, made upon notice,
and upon proof that the county judge is incapable to act in an
action or special proceeding pending in the county court, may,
and if the special county judge is also incapable to act, must,
make an order removing it to the supreme court. Thereupon
the subsequent proceedings in the supreme court must be the
same as if it had originally been brought in that court, ex
cept that an objection to the jurisdiction may be taken, which
might have been taken in the county court.
§ 343. The supreme court may, by an order, made at any
time after joinder of an issue of fact, and before the trial
thereof, remove to itself an action, brought in a county court,
under subdivision second or subdivision third of the last sec
tion but two, for the purpose of changing the place of trial
thereof. Where an order for removal is made, as prescribed
in this section, the place of trial of the action must be changed
by the same order to another county ; and the subsequent
proceedings therein must be the same, as if the action had
been originally brought in the supreme court.
§ 344. An order of removal, made as prescribed in either
of the last two sections, takes effect upon the entry thereof in
the office of the county clerk. Where the order directs that
the action be tried in another county, the clerk with whom it
is entered, must forthwith deliver to the clerk of that county,
all papers filed therein, and certified copies of all minutes
and entries relating thereto ; which must be filed, entered, or
recorded, as the case requires, in the office of the last men
tioned clerk. The provisions of section two hundred and
seventy-one of this act apply to an appeal taken from such an
order.
§ 345. An order to stay proceedings, for the purpose of
affording an opportunity to make the application for removal,
may be made by the county judge, or by a judge authorized
to make such an order in the supreme court and with like
effect and under like circumstances.
§ 340. The removal
val of
ol ■»•> action or special proceeding, as prescribed in this title, does not invalidate, or in any
manner impair, a process, provisional remedy, or other pro
ceeding, or a bond, undertaking, or recognizance in the action
or special proceeding so removed ; each of which continues to
have the same validity and effect, as if the removal had not
been made. Where bail was given, the surrender of the
defendant in the supreme court has the same effect, as a sur
render in the county court would have had, if the action or
special proceeding had remained therein.
§ 347. A county court has power, in an action or special
proceeding of which it has jurisdiction, to send its process and
other mandates into any county of the State, for service or
execution, and to enforce obedience thereto, with like power
and authority as the supreme court.
24 Hun, 548.
§348. Where a county court has jurisdiction of an action
or a special proceeding, it possesses the same jurisdiction,
power and authority in and over the same, and in the course
of the proceedings therein, which the supreme court possesses
in a like case ; and it may render any judgment, or grant
either party any relief, which the supreme court might render
or grant in a like case, and may enforce its mandates in like
manner as the supreme court. And the county judge pos
sesses the same power and authority, in the action or special
proceeding, which a justice of the supreme court possesses, in
a like action or special proceeding, brought in the supreme
court.
§ 349. The county judge also possesses 'the same power
and authority, in a special proceeding, which can be lawfully
instituted before him, out of court, which a justice of the su
preme court possesses in a like special proceeding, instituted
before him in like manner.
§ 350. Upon the application of a person, who has been
fined by a court, or of a person whose recognizance has be
come forfeited, or of his surety, the county court of the county
in which the term of the court was held, where the fine was
imposed, or the recognizance taken, may, except as otherwise
prescribed in the next section, upon good cause shown, and
upon such terms as it deems just, make an order, remitting
the fine, wholly or partly, or the forfeiture of the recognizance,
or part of the penalty thereof ; or it may discharge the recog
nizance. If a fine so remitted has been paid, the county
treasurer, or other officer, in whose hands the money remains,
must pay the same, or the part remitted, according to the
order.
§ 351. The last section does not authorize a county court,
to remit any part of a fine, exceeding two hundred and fifty
dollars, imposed by a court of oyer and terminer, or a court
of sessions, upon a conviction for a criminal offense ; or a fine,
to any amount, imposed by a court upon an officer or other
person, for an actual contempt of court, or for disobedience
to its process, or other mandate ; or to remit or discharge a
recognizance, taken in its county, for the appearance of a per
son in another county. In the latter case, the power of re
mitting or discharging the recognizance is vested in the
county court of the county, in which the person is bound to
appear.
i$ 352. An application for an order, as prescribed in the
last section but one, cannot be heard, until such notice thereof as the court deems reasonable, has been given to the districtattorney of the county, and until he has had an opportunity
to examine the matter, and prepare to resist the application.
And upon granting such an order, the court must always im
pose, as a condiction [condition] thereof, the payment of the
costs and expenses, if any, incurred in an action or special
proceeding for the collection of the fine, or the penalty of the
recognizance.
§ 353. Where a person has been fined by a court of
special sessions, or by a justice of the peace, upon a convic
tion for an offense, and has been committed to jail for non
payment of the fine, the county court of the county may make
an order, remitting the fine, wholly or partly, and discharg
ing him from his imprisonment. The power conferred by this
section must be exercised in the manner prescribed, and sub
ject to the provisions contained, in the last three sections.
§ 354. In an action or special proceeding in a county
court, an order may be made without notice, or an order to
stay proceedings may be made upon notice, by a justice of
the supreme court, or by the county judge of the county
where the attorney for the applicant resides, in a case where
the county judge, in whose court the action or special pro
ceeding is brought, may make the same, out of court ; and
with like effect.
§ 355. [Am'd 1877.] The county court is always open for
the transaction of any business, for which notice is not re
quired to be given to an adverse party, except where it is
specially prescribed by law, that the business must be done
at a stated term. The county judge must, from time to time,
appoint the times and places for holding terms of his court.
At least two terms, for the trial of issues of law or of fact,
must be appointed to be held in each year. Each term may
continue as long as the county judge deems necessary. The
county judge may, by a new appointment, change the day
appointed for holding a term, or appoint one or more addi
tional terms, or dispense with the holding of a term, without
affecting any other term or terms theretofore appointed to be
held. Each term must be held at the place designated by
statute for that purpose ; except that the county judge may,
from time to time, adjourn a term to any place within the
county, for the hearing and decision of motions and appeals,
and trials and other proceedings without a jury ; and may
appoint as many terms as he thinks proper to be held, either
at the court house or elsewhere in the county, for the same
purpose.
§ 353. Each appointment, made as prescribed in the last
section, must be filed in the county clerk's office, and a copy
thereof published, at least once in each week, for three suc
cessive weeks before a term is held, changed, or dispensed
with, by virtue thereof, in the newspaper in the city of Al
bany, in which legal notices are required to be published, and
also in at least one newspaper, published in the county, and
as many additional newspapers, published therein, as the
county judge prescribes. The expense of the publication is
a county charge. *
§ 357. Jurors for the terms of the county court, at which
issues of fact are triable by jury, and of the court of sessions,
* See h, 1884, c. 133, repealing " -is providing lor a State paper. must be drawn and notified in the same manner as for a term
of the circuit court.
§ 358. [Arid 1883.] The board of supervisors of any
county, exoept Kings, Livingston, Monroe, Cortland, Oswego,
Westchester and Onondaga, may, in their discretion, provide
for the employment of a stenographer for the county court
and court of sessions thereof, and when said board of super
visors shall so provide, the stenographer shall be appointed by
the presiding judge of said courts, and said board of super
visors must fix his compensation, and provide for the pay
ment thereof, in the same manner as other county expenses
are paid.
§ 359. [Am'd 1877.] The county judge of the county of
Kings, from time to time, must appoint, and may at pleasure
remove, a stenographer, to be attached to the county court
and the court of sessions of the county of Kings • who is en
titled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law.
He must attend each trial of an issue of fact in the county
court or court of sessions. The stenographer, appointed as
prescribed in this section, may, with the consent or the county
judge, appoint an assistant stenographer, to aid him in the
discharge of his duties, whose compensation shall be paid by
the stenographer, and is not a county charge.
§ 360. [Arrid 1877.] The county judge and the surrogate
of the county of Kings, from time to time, must appoint, and
may at pleasure remove, an interpreter, to be attached to the
county court, the court of sessions, and the surrogate's court
of the county of Kings. Before entering upon the discharge
of his duties, he must file in the county clerk's office the Con
stitutional oath of office, and an additional oath, which may
be incorporated into the Constitutional oath, to the effect that
he will fully and correctly interpret and translate each ques
tion propounded to a witness, and each answer thereto.
§ 36 1 . [Am'd 1878, 1883, 1886, 1888, 1890.] The judge hold
ing or presiding at a term of the county court or court of
sessions in either of the counties of Livingston, Niagara, Mon
roe, Onondaga, Oswego, or Cortland where issues of fact are
triable, may employ a stenographer to take stenographic
notes upon trials thereat, who is entitled to a compensation to
be certified by the judge, not exceeding ten dollars for each
day's attendance, at the request of the judge. The stenogra
pher's compensation is a charge upon the county, and in the
counties of Livingston and Onondaga must be audited, allowed
and paid as other county charges: and in the counties of Mon
roe, Niagara, Oswego and Cortland must be paid by the
county treasurer, on an order of the court, granted on the af
fidavit of the stenographer and the certificate of the judge
that the services were rendered. The judge of the county
court and court of sessions of Erie county may appoint and
may at pleasure remove a stenographer of said courts, who
must attend each term of the said courts where issues of fact
in civil or criminal ciuses are triable, and shall receive there
for a salary of fifteen hundred dollars per annum, together
with las necessary expenses for stationery, to be paid by the
treasurer of said county of Erie, in equal monthly install
ments, on the certificate of the judge of said courts that the
services have been actually performed or the expenses neces
sarily incurred. Said stenographer shall also report and
transcribe opinions for the judge of said courts, as well as
special proceedings where a stenographer is required, without
additional compensation.
§ 362. The people of the state will not sue a person for or
with respect to real property, or the issues or profits thereof, by
reason of the right or title of the people to the same, unless
either :
1. The cause of action accrued within forty years before the
action is commenced ; or,
2. The people, or those from whom they claim, have re
ceived the rents and profits of the real property, or of some
part thereof, within the same period of time.
§ 363. An action shall not be brought for or with respect
to real property, by a person claiming by virtue of letters pat
ent or a grant, from the people of the State, unless it might
have been maintained by the people, as prescribed in this title,
if the patent or grant had not been issued or made.
§ 364. Where letters patent or a grant of real property,
issued or made by the people of the State, are declared void
by the determination of a competent court, rendered upon an
allegation of a fraudulent suggestion or concealment, or of a
forfeiture, or mistake, or ignorance of a material fact, or
wrongful detaining, or defective title ; an action of ejectment,
to recover the premises in question, may be commenced, either
by the people, or by a subsequent patentee or grantee of the
same premises, his heirs, or assigns, within twenty years after
the determination is made ; but not after that period.
§ 365. An action to recover real property, or the posses
sion thereof, cannot be maintained by a party, other than the 27 Uun,162.
people, unless the plaintifff, his ancestor, predecessor, or grant
or, was seized or possessed of the premises in question, within
twenty years before the commencement of the action.
§ 366. A defense or counterclaim, founded upon the title
to real property, or to rents or services out of the same, is not effectual, unless the person making it, or under whose title it
is made, or his ancestor, predecessor, or grantor, was seized or
possessed of the premises in question, within twenty years be
fore the committing of the act, with respect to which it is
made.
§ 367. An entry upon real property is not sufficient or
valid as a claim, unless an action is commenced thereupon,
within one year after the making thereof, and within twenty
years after the time, when the right to make it descended or
accrued.
§ 368. In an action to recover real property, or the possession thereof, the person who establishes a legal title to the
premises is presumed to have been possessed thereof, within
the time required by law ; and the occupation of the premises,
by another person, is deemed to have been under and in sub
ordination to the legal title, unless the premises have been
held and possessed adversely to the legal title, for twenty
years before the commencement of the action.
§ 369. Where the occupant, or those under whom he
claims, entered into the possession of the premises, under claim
of title, exclusive of any other right, founding the claim upon
a written instrument, as being a conveyance of the premises
in question, or upon the decree or judgment of a competent
court ; and there has been a continued occupation and posses
sion of the premises, included in the instrument, decree, or
judgment, or of some part thereof, for twenty years, under
the same claim ; the premises so included are deemed to have
been held adversely ; except that where they consist of a
tract, divided into lots, the possession of one lot is not deemed
a possession of any other lot.
£ 370. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possessiOIlj by a person claiming a title, founded upon a written in
strument, or a judgment or decree, land is deemed to have
been possessed and occupied in either of the following cases :
1. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.
2. Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure.
8. Where, although not inclosed, it has been used for the
supply of fuel, or of fencing timber, either for the purposes of
husbandry, or for the ordinary use of the occupant.
Where a known farm or a single lot has been partly im
proved, the portion of the farm or lot that has been left not
cleared, or not inclosed, according to the usual course and
custom of the adjoining country, is deemed to have been oc
cupied for the same length of time, as the part improved and
cultivated.
§371. Where there has been an actual continued occupayon 0f premises, under a claim of title, exclusive of any other
right, but not founded upon a written instrument, or a judg
ment or decree, the premises so actually occupied, and no
others, are deemed to have been held adversely.
§ 372. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession, by a person claiming title, not founded upon a written
instrument, or a judgment or decree, land is deemed to have
been possessed and occupied in either of the following cases,
and no others :
1. Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure.
2. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.
§ 373. Where the relation of landlord and tenant has existed between any persons, the possession of tbc tenant is
deemed the possession of the landlord, until the expiration of
twenty years after the termination of the tenancy : or, where
there has been no written lease, until the expiration of twentj
years after the last payment of rent ; notwithstanding that
the tenant has acquired another title, or has claimed to bold
adversely to his landlord. But this presumption shall not be
made, after the periods prescribed in this section.
§ 374. The right of a person to the possession of real
property is not impaired or affected, by a descent being cast,
in consequence of the death of a person in possession of the
property.
§ 375. If a person, who might maintain an action to re- J?
cover real property, or the possession thereof, or make an J?*» r.n
entry, or interpose a defense or counterclaim, founded on the
title to real property, or to rents or services out of the same,
is, when his title first descends, or his cause of action or right
of entry first accrues, either :
1. Within the age of twenty-one years ; or,
2. Insane ; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon
conviction of a criminal offense, for a term less than for life ;
The time of such a disability is not a part of the time, lim
ited in this title, for commencing the action, or making the
entry, or interposing the defense or counterclaim ; except
that the time so limited cannot be extended more than ten
years, after the disability ceases, or after the death of the
person so disabled.
389. Actions by the people sub397. Defence or counterclaim.
ject to the same limita§ 376. [im'd 1877.] A final judgment or decree for a
sum of money, or directing the payment of a sum of money,
heretofore rendered in a surrogate's court of the State, or
heretofore or hereafter rendered, in a court of record within
the United States, or elsewhere, is presumed to be paid and
satisfied, after the expiration of twenty years from the time,
when the party recovering it was first entitled to a mandate
to enforce it.
This presumption is conclusive ; except as
against a person, who, within twenty years from that time,
makes a payment or acknowledges an indebtedness of some
Eart of the amount recovered by the judgment or decree ; or
is heir or personal representative ; or a person whom he
otherwise represents. Such an acknowledgment must be in
writing, and signed by the person to be charged thereby.
§ 377. If the proof of payment, under the last section,
consists of the return of an execution partly satisfied, the ad
verse party may show, in full avoidance of the effect thereof,
that the alleged partial satisfaction did not proceed from a
payment made, or a sale of property claimed, by him, or by a
person whom he represents.
26 Hun, 173.
§ 378. A person may avail himself of the presumption
created by the last section but one, under an allegation that
the action was not commenced, or that the proceeding was not
taken, within the time therein limited.
§ 379. An action to redeem real property from a mort
gage, with or without an account of rents and profits, may be
maintained by the mortgagor, on those claiming under "him,
against the mortgagee in possession, or those claiming under
him, unless he or they have continuously maintained an ad
verse possession of the mortgaged premises, for twenty years
after the breach of a condition of the mortgage, or the non-ful
fillment of a covenant therein contained.
26 Hnn, 173.
§ 380. The following actions must be commenced within
116 N.Y. 351. the following periods, after the cause of action has accrued.
102 N.Y. 423.
21 Abb. N.
C. 479.

§ 381. [Arrid 1877.] Within twenty years :
An action upon a sealed instrument.
_,
But where the action is brought for breach of a covenant of
seizin, or against encumbrances, the cause of action is for the
purposes of this section only, deemed to have accrued upon an
eviction, and not before.

31 Hun, 129,

§ 382. [Am'd 1877.] Within six years :
afFd in 102 N. Y. 494; 13 Abb. N. C. 413; 42 Hun, 628; 115 N. 7. 80; 31
N. Y. State Rep. 17 ; 123 N. Y. 152.
48 N.Y. Sup1. An action upon a contract obligation or liability, express
er. Ct. ( J . & or implied ; except a judgment or sealed instrument.
S.) 211.
9 N y. State Eep. 716.
37 Hun, 397.
2. An action to recover upon a liability created by statute ;
except a penalty or forfeiture.
62 How. Pr.
8. An action to recover damages for an injury to property,
255.
or a personal injury ; except in a case where a different
41 Hnn, 600; period is expressly prescribed in this chapter.
53 N.Y. Sup- erCt (J &8.)331.

th *i'fin^ fl'*
a i>alv 2"9
48 N Y.SnV
er. Ct. (J.&
8.) 454.
!> N. Y. State
Rep. 701.

4. An action to recover a chattel.
5. An action to procure a judgment, other than for a sum
°^ monev> on ^he ground of fraud, in a case which, on the
thirty-first day of December, eighteen hundred and forty -six,
was cognizable by the court of chancery. The cause of action,
i" such a case, is not deemed to have accrued, until the discovery, by the plaintifff, or the person under whom he claims,
of the facts constituting the fraud.
6N y. Supp. 4; 25 N. Y. State Rep. 575; 26 Id. 714; 116N.Y.351.
6. An action to establish a will. Where the will has been
lost, concealed, or destroyed, the cause of action is not deemed
to have accrued, until the discovery, by the plaintifff, or the person under whom he claims, of the facts upon which it*
validity depends.
7. An action upon a judgment or decree, rendered in a 25 Clan, an.
court not of record, except a decree heretofore rendered in a 1 Cl». Pro.
surrogate's court of the State. The cause of action, in such a 240.
case, is deemed to have accrued, when final judgment i* **"•?• _
rendered.
r
§ 383. lAm'd 1877.] Within three years :
»z!». T.SM,
1. An action against a sheriff, coroner, constable, or other *""*•
officer, for the non-payment of money collected upon an 21 Hun, a*.
execution.
3. An action against a constable, upon any other liability
incurred by him, by doing an act in his official capacity, or by
the omission of an official duty ; except an escape.
3. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture,
where the action is given to the person aggrieved, or to that
person and the people of the State ; except where the statute
imposing it prescribes a different limitation.
4. An action against an executor, administrator, or receiver, ing K Y.sna.
or against the trustee of an insolvent debtor, appointed, as 47 Hnn, is.
prescribed by law, in a special proceeding, instituted in a
court or before a judge, brought to recover a chattel, or dam
ages for taking, detaining, or injuring personal property, by
the defendant, or the person whom he represents.
5. An action to recover damages for a personal injury, W N. Y. vu,
resulting from negligence.
Y f * ^
(J A S.)44; 109N.Y.311, afFg, 35 Hun, 44; 112 N.Y. 550, rer'g 14,01?.
Pro. 248 ; 13 Week. Dig. 418.
§ 384. "Within two years :
1. An action to recover damages for libel, slander, assault,
battery, or false imprisonment.
2. An action upon a statute, for a forfeiture or penalty to
the people of the. State.
§ 385. "Within one year :
4 ^ntn. L.
1. An action against a sheriff or coroner, upon a liability ""Ji7incurred by him, by doing an act in his official capacity, or by *■> Hl,n- *»■
the omission of an official duty ; except the non-payment of
money collected upon an execution.
2. An action against any other officer, for the escape of a
prisoner, arrested or imprisoned by virtue of a civil mandate.
§ 386. In an action brought to recover a balance due 2 I>em. 0:10.
upon a mutual, open, and current account, where there have 7 Civ Pro.
been reciprocal demands between the parties, the cause of 282.
action is deemed to have accrued from the time of the last
item, proved in the account on either side.
§ 387. An action upon a statute for a penalty or for
feiture, given wholly or partly to any person who will prose
cute for the same, must be commenced within one year after
the commission of the offense ; and if the action is not com
menced within the year by a private person, it may be
commenced within two years thereafter, in behalf of the
people of the State by the Attorney-General, or the districtattorney of the county where the offense was committed.
8 388. An action, the limitation of which is not specially
,bb N
prescribed in this or the last title, must be commenced within c H
ten years after the cause of action accrues.
§ 389. The limitations, prescribed in this title, apply alike
to actions brought in the name of the people of the State, or
for their benefit, and to actions by private persons.
§ 390. Where a cause of action, which does not involve
the title to or possession of real property within the State,
accrues against a person, who is not then a resident of the
State, an action cannot be brought thereon in a court of the
State, against him or his personal representative, after the
expiration of the time, limited, by the laws of his residence,
for bringing a like action, except by a resident of the State,
and in one of the following cases :
1. Where the cause of action originally accrued in favor of
a resident of the State.
2. Where, before the expiration of the time so limited, the
person, in whose favor it originally accrued, was or became a
resident of the State ; or the cause of action was assigned to,
and thereafter continuously owned by, a resident of the State.
§ 391. [Am'd 1877.] If a person, against whom a cause of
action exists, dies without the State, the time which elapses
between his death, and the expiration of eighteen months
after the issuing; within the State, of letters testamentary or
letters of administration, is not a part of the time limited for
the commencement of an action therefore, against his executor
or administrator.
§ 392. [Am'd 1877.] For the purpose of computing the
time, within which an action must be commenced in a court
of flic State, by an executor or administrator, to recover
personal property, taken after the death of a testator or
intestate, and before the issuing of letters testamentary or
letters of administration ; or to recover damages for taking,
detaining, or injuring personal property within the same
period ; the letters are deemed to have been issued, within
six years after the death of the testator or intestate. But
where an action is barred by this section, any of the next of
kin, legatees, or creditors, who, at the time of the transaction
upon which it might have been founded, was within the age
or twenty-one years, or insane, or imprisoned on a criminal
charge, may, within five years after the cessation of such
a disbility, maintain an action to recover damages by reason
thereof ; in which he may recover such sum, or the value
of such property, as he would have received upon the llnal
distribution of the estate, if an action had been seasonably
commenced by the executor or administrator.
§ 393. This chapter does not affect an action to en force
the payment of a bill, note, or other evidence of debt, issued
by a moneyed corporation, or issued or put in circulation as
money.
§ 394. [4m'(i 1877.] This chapter does not affect an ac
tion against a director or stockholder of a moneyed corpora
tion, or banking association, to recover a penalty or forfeit
ure imposed, or to enforce a liability created by law ; but
such an action must he brought within three years after the
cause of action has accrued.
§ 395. An acknowledgement or promise, contained in a
writing signed by the party to be charged thereby, is the only
competent evidence of a new or continuing contract, whereby
to take a case out of the operation of this title. But this section does not alter the effect of a payment of principal or in- N. Y. Slate
terest.
Rep. 674.
§ 336. If a person, entitled to maintain an action specified 5 Redf. |gg
in this title, except for a penalty or forfeiture, or against a
sheriff or other officer for an escape, is, at the time when the
cause of action accrues, either :
1. Within the age of twenty-one years ; or,
2. Insane ; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon
conviction of a criminal offense, for a term less than for life ;
The time of such a disability is not a part of the time, lim
ited in this title for commencing the action: except that the
time so limited cannot be extended more than five years by
any such disability, except infancy ; or, in any case, more
than one year after the disability ceases.
§ 397. A cause of action, upon which an action cannot be
maintained, as prescribed in this title, cannot be effectually in
terposed as a defense or counterclaim.
§ 398. [Am,d 1877.] An 'action is commenced against a
defendant, within the meaning of any provision of this act,
which limits the time for commencing an action, when the
summons is served on him ; or, on a co-defendant who is a
joint contractor, or otherwise united in interest with him.
§ 399. An attempt to commence an action, in a court of
record, is equivalent to the commencement thereof against
each defendant, within the meaning of each provision of this
act, which limits the time for commencing an action, when the
summons is delivered, with the intent that it shall be actually
served, to the sheriff, or, where the sheriff is a party, to a coroner of the county, in which that defendant or one or two or
more co-defendants, who are joint contractors, or otherwise
united in interest with him, resides or last resided ; or, if the
defendant is a corporation, to a like officer of the county, in
which it is established by law, or wherein its general business
is or was last transacted, or wherein it keeps or last kept, an
office for the transaction of business. But in order to entitle a
plaintifff to the benefit of this section, the delivery of the summons to an officer must be followed, within sixty days after
the expiration of the time limited for the actual commence
ment of the action, by personal service thereof upon the de
fendant sought to be charged, or by the first publication of
the summons, as against that defendant, pursuant to an order
for service upon him in that manner.
§ 400. The last section, excluding the provision requiring
a publication or service of the summons within sixty days, ap
plies to an attempt to commence an action in a court not of
record, where the summons is delivered to an officer author
ized to serve the same, within the city or town wherein the
person resides or the corporation is located, as specified in
that section ; provided that actual service thereof is made
with due diligence.
§ 401- ^Am'd m7< 1S88-1 If- when 1hc cause of action accrues against a person he is without the State, the action may
be commenced within the time limited therefore, after his return into the State. If, after a cause of action has accrued
against the person, he departs from and resides without the
State and remains continuously absent therefrom for the
space of one year or more, or if, without the knowledge of the
person entitled to maintain the action, he resides within the
State under a false name the time of his absence or of such res
idence within the State under such false name is not a part of
the time limited for the commencement of the action. But
this section does not apply while a designation made as pre
scribed jn section four hundred and thirty or in subdivision
second of section four hundred and thirty-two of this act
remains in force.
§ 402. If a person, entitled to maintain an action, dies before the expiration of the time limited for the commencement
thereof, and the cause of action survives, an action may be
commenced by his representative, after the expiration of that
time, and within one year after his death.
§ 403 [Am'd 1879, 1891.] The term of eighteen months
after the death, within this State, of a person against whom a
cause of action exists, or of a person who shall have died
within sixty days after an attempt shall have been made to
commence an action against him pursuant to the provision of
section three hundred and ninety-nine of this act, is not a part
of the time limited for the commencement of an action against
his executor or administrator. If letters testamentary or let
ters of administration upon his estate are not issued, within
the State, at least six mouths before the expiration of the time
to bring the action, as extended by the foregoing provision of
this section, the term of one year after such letters are issued
is not a part of the time limited for the commencement of
such an action.
§ 404. Where a person is disabled to sue in the courts of
the State, by reason of either party being an alien subject or
citizen of a country at war with the United States, the time of
the continuance of the disability is not a part of the time lim
ited for the commencement of the action.
8 405. If an action is commenced within the time limited
therefore, and a judgment therein is reversed on appeal, with
out awarding a new trial, or the action is terminated iu
any other manner than by a voluntary discontinuance, a dis
missal of the complaint for neglect to prosecute the action,
or a final judgment upon the merits ; the plaintifff, or, if he
dies, and the cause of action survives, his representatives may
commence a new action for the same cause, after the expira
tion of the time so limited, and within one year after such a
reversal or termination.
§ 406. Where the commencement of an action has been
stayed by injunction, or by other order of a court or judge, or
by statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance of the
stay is not a part of the time, limited for the commencement
of the action.
§ 407. Where an injury results from the act or omission
of a deputy or agent, the time, within which an action to re
cover damages by reason thereof, must bo commenced by the
Frincipal, against the deputy or agent, must be computed
rom the time, when a judgment against the principal, for the
act or omission, is first recovered by the aggrieved person ;
and a subsequent reversal or setting aside of the judgment
does not extend the time.
§ 408. A person cannot avail himself of a disability unless
it existed when his right of action or of entry accrued.
§ 409. Where two or more disabilities co-exist, when the
the right of action or of entry accrues, the limitation does not
attach, until all are removed.
§ 410. Where a right exists, but a demand is necessary
to entitle a person to maintain an action, the time, within
which the action must be commenced, must be computed
from the time, when the right to make the demand is com
plete ; except in one of the Following cases :
1. Where the right grows out of the receipt or detention of
money or property, by an agent, trustee, attorney, or other
person acting in a fiduciary capacity, the time must be com
puted from the time, when the person, having the right to
make the demand, has actual knowledge of the facts, upon
which that right depends.
2. Where there was a deposit of money, not to be repaid at
a fixed time, but only upon a special demand, or a delivery of 99 N,Y. 491.
personal property, not to be returned, specifically or in kind,
at a fixed time or upon a fixed contingency, the time must be
computed from the demand.
§411. Where the persons, who might be adverse parties
in an action, have entered into a written agreement to submit
to arbitration, or to refer the cause of action, or a controversy
in which it might be available, or have entered into a written
submission thereof to arbitrators ; and before an award, or
other determination thereupon, the agreement or submission
is revoked, so as to render it ineffectual, by the death of either
party thereto, or by the act of the person against whom the
action might nave been brought ; or the execution thereof,
or the remedy upon an award or other determination there
under, is stayed by injunction, or other order procured by
him from a competent court or judge ; the time which has
elapsed, between the entering into the written submission or
agreement, and the revocation thereof, or the expiration of
the stay, is not a part of the time, limited for the commence
ment of the action.
§ 412. Where a defendant in an action has interposed an 21N.Y.State
answer, in support of which he would be entitled to rely, at Rep. 295.
the trial, upon a defense or counterclaim then existing in his
favor, the remedy upon which, at the time of the commence
ment of the action, was not barred by the provisions of this
chapter ; and the complaint is dismissed, or the action is dis
continued, or abates in consequence of the plaintifffs death :
the time which intervened between the commencement and application to the court, where the complaint sets forth one or
more causes of action, each consisting of the breach of an
express contract to pay, absolutely or upon a contingency, a
sum or sums of money, fixed by the terms of the contract, or
capable of being ascertained therefrom, by computation only;
or an express or implied contract to pay money received or
disbursed, or the value of property delivered, or of services
rendered by, to, or for the use of, the defendant or a third
person ; and thereupon demands judgment for a sum of
money only. This section includes a case, where the breach
of the contract, set forth in the complaint, is only partial ; or
where the complaint shows that the amount of the plaintifffs
demand has been reduced by payment, counterclaim, or other
credit.
§ 421. The defendant's appearance must be made by
serving upon the plaintifffs attorney, within twenty days after
serv*i°e of the summons, exclusive of the day of service, a
notice of appearance, or a copy of a demurrer or of an an
swer. A notice or pleading, so served, must be subscribed by
the defendant's attorney, who must add to his signature his
office address, with the particulars prescribed in section four
hundred and seventeen of this act, concerning the office ad
dress of the plaintifffs attorney.
§ 422. [Am'dlSn.] A defendant, upon whom the plain* ^as serve<i> "with the summons, a copy of the complaint,
must serVe a copy of his demurrer or answer upon the plain
tiffs attorney, before the expiration of the time, within which
the summons requires him to answer. If a copy of the com
plaint is not so served, a notice of appearance entitles him
only to notice of the subsequent proceedings, unless within
the same time he demands the service of a copy of the com
plaint as prescribed in section four hundred and seventy-nine
of this act.
§ 423. [Am'd 1877.] Where a personal claim is not made
against a defendant, a notice, subscribed by the plaintifff's at
torney, setting forth the general object of the action, a brief
description of the property affected by it, if it affect specific
real or personal property, and that a personal claim is not
made against him, may be served with the summons. If the
defendant so served, unreasonably defends the action, costs
may be awarded against him.
§424. A voluntary general appearance of the defendant
is equivalent to personal service ot the summons upon him.
§ 425. The summons may be served by any person, other
than a party to the action, except where it is otherwise
specially prescribed by law. The plaintifffs attorney may,
by an indorsement on the summons, fix a time within which
the service thereof must be made : in that case, the ser
vice cannot be made afterwards. Where a summons is de
livered for service to the sheriff of the county, wherein the
defendant is found, the sheriff must serve it, and return it,
with proof of service, to the plaintifffs attorney, with reason
able diligence.
§ 426. [Am'd 1879.] Personal service of the summons
upon a defendant, being a natural person, must be made by
delivering a copy thereof, within the State, as follows :
1. If the defendant is an infant, under the age of fourteen
years, to the infant in person, and also to his lather, mother, or guardian ; or, if there is none within the State, to the per
son having the care and control of him, or with whom he
resides, or in 'whose service he is employed.
, 2. If the defendant is a person judicially declared to lie in
competent to manage his affairs in consequence of lunacy,
idiocy, or habitual drunkenness, and for whom a committee
has been appointed, to the committee, and also to the defend
ant in person.
3. If the action is against a sheriff, for a cause specified
in section one hundred and fifty-eight of this act, by deliver
ing it to the defendant in person, or to his under-sheriff in
person, or at the office of the sheriff during the hours when it
is required by law to be kept open, to a deputy-sheriff or a
clerk in the employment of the sheriff, or other person in
charge of the office.
4. In any other case, to the defendant in person.
§ 427. If the defendant is an infant of the age of fourteeu 34Hun,is:i;
years, or upwards, or if the court has, in its opinion, reason- 47 Id. 606.
able ground to believe, that the defendant, by reason of
habitual drunkenness, or for any other cause, is mentally
incapable adequately to protect his rights, although not judi
cially declared to be incompetent to manage his affairs, the
court may, in its discretion, with or without an application
therefore, and in the defendant's interest, make an order, itouiring a copy of the summons to be also delivered, in behalf
of the defendant, to a person designated in the order, and
that service of the summons shall not be deemed complete,
until it is so delivered
8 428. [Am'd 1877.] In a case specified in subdivision
first or second of section four hundred and twenty-six of this s Month L.
act, where the court has, in its opinion reasonable ground to Bui. 'J9.
believe, that the interest of the person,other than the defendant,
to whom a copy of the summons has been delivered, is adverse
to that of the defendant, or that, for any reason, he is not a
fit person to protect the rights of the defendant, it may like
wise make an order, as prescribed in the last section. In a
case specified in subdivision second, the court may, as a part
of the same order, or by a separate order, made, in like man
ner and upon like ground, at any stage of the action, appoint
a special guardian ad litem to conduct the defense for the incompetant defendant, to the exclusion of the committee, and
with the same powers, and subject to the same liabilities, as a
committee of the property.
§ 429. Where the defendant has been judicially declared 15 civ. Pro
to""be incompetent to manage his affairs, in consequence of 89.
lunacy, and it appears satisfactorily to the court, by affidavit,
that the delivery of a copy of the summons to him, in person,
will tend to aggravate his disorder, or to lessen the probability
of his recovery, the court may make an order, dispensing
with such delivery. In that case, a delivery of a copy of the
summons, to a committee duly appointed for him, is sufficient
personal service upon the defendant.
g 430. A resident of the State of full age, may execute, lOr>N.Y. 340.
under his hand, and acknowledge, in the manner required by
law to entitle a deed to be recorded, a written designation of
another resident of the State, as a person upon whom to serve
a summons, or any process or other paper for the commence
ment of a civil special proceeding, m any court or before any
officer, during the absence from the United States of the person making the designation ; and may file the same, with
the written consent of the person so designated, executed
and acknowledged in the same manner, in the office of the
clerk of the county, where the person making the desig
nation resides. The designation must specify the occupa
tion or other proper addition, and the residence of the per
son making it, and also of the person designated ; and it
remains in force during the period specified therein, if any;
or, if no period is specified for that purpose, for three years
after the filing thereof. But it is revoked earlier, by the
death or legal incompetency of either of the parties thereto ;
or by the filing of a revocation thereof, or of the consent,
executed and acknowledged in like manner. The clerk must
file and record such a designation, consent, or revocation ;
and must note, upon the record of the original designation,
the filing and recording of a revocation. Wlfile the desig
nation remains in force, as prescribed in this section, a sum
mons, or any process or other paper for the commencement of
a civil special proceeding, against the person making it, in
any court or before any officer, may be served upon the per
son so designated, in like manner and with like effect, as if it
was served upon the person making the designation, notwith
standing the return of the latter to the United States.
g 431. Personal service of the summons upon a defendaIlfj being a domestic corporation, must be made by deliver
ing a copy thereof, within the State, as follows :
1. If the action is against the mayor, alderman, [aldermen]
and commonalty of the city of New York, to the mayor,
comptroller, or counsel to the corporation.
2. If the action is against any other city, to the mayor,
treasurer, counsel, attorney, or clerk ; or, if the city lacks
either of those officers, to the officer performing correspond
ing functions, under another name.
3. In any other case, to the president or other head of the
corporation the secretary or clerk to the corporation, the
cashier, the treasurer, or a director or managing agent.
§ 432. [Am'd 1877.] Personal service of the summons,
upon a defendant, being a foreign corporation, must be made
by delivering a copy thereof, within the State, as follows :
*• To the president, treasurer, or secretary; or, if the corporation lacks either of those officers, to the officer perfonnlnS corresponding functions, under another name.
a. To a person designated for the purpose by a writing, un
der the seal of the corporation, and the signature of its presi
dent, vice-president, or other acting head, accompanied with
the written consent of the person designated, and filed in the
office of the Secretary of State. The designation must specify
a place, within the State, as the office or residence of the
person designated ; and, if it is within the city, the street,
and street number, if any, or other suitable designation of the
particular locality. It remains in force, until the filing in the
same olliee of a written revocation thereof, or of the consent,
executed in like maimer ; but the person designated may,
from time to time, change the place specified as his office or
residence, to some other place within the State, by a writing,
executed by him, and filed in like manner. The Secretary of
State may require the execution of any instrument, specified
i n this section, to be authenticated as he deems proper, and
he may refuse to file it without such an authentication. An
exemplified copy of a designation so filed, accompanied with a certificate that it has not been revoked, is presumptive
evidence of the execution thereof, and conclusive evidence ot
the authority of the officer executing it.
3. If such a designation is not in force, or if neither the per- 104N.Y.4/7.
son designated, nor an officer specified in subdivision first of
this section, can be found with due diligence, and the corpor
ation has property within the State, or the cause of notion
arose therein ; to the cashier, a director, or a managing ageut
of the corporation, within the State.
§ 433. The provisions of this article, relating to themo<ie
of service of a summons, apply likewise to the service of any
process or other paper, whereby a special proceeding is com
menced in a court, or before an officer, except a proceeding
to punish for contempt, and except where special provision
for the service thereof is otherwise made by law.
§ 434. Proof of service, as prescribed in this article, must
be made by affidavit, except as follows :
1. If the service was made by the sheriff, it may be proved
by his certificate thereof.
2. If the defendant served is an adult, who has not been
judicially declared to be incompetent to manage his affairs,
the service may be proved by a written admission, signed by
him, and either acknowledged by him, and certified in like
manner as a deed to be recorded in the county, or accom
panied with the affidavit of a person, other than the plaintifff,
showing that the signature is genuine.
A certificate, admission, or affidavit of service of a sum
mons, must state the time and place of service. A written
admission of the service of a summons, or of a paper accom>anying the same, imports, unless otherwise expressly stated
tlherein, or otherwise plainly to be inferred from its contents,
that a copy of the paper was delivered to the person signing
the admission.
ARTICLE SECOND.
Substitutes fob pebsostal, Sebvice in Special. Cases.
g 435. Order for service of sumg 440. By whom order may be
moos when defendantnot
made ; contents of order.
found, etc.
441. When publication must be
436. How service must be made.
commenced; when ser437. Papers to be filed; proof
vice deemed complete.
of service.
442. Papers to bo filed; notice
438. Cases in which service of
to defendant.
summons by publication^443. Id.; when service is made
etc., may be ordered.
without the State.
439. Papers upon which order
444. Proof of service.
for publication may be
445. Defendant when allowed
made.
to defend.
§435. [Am'd 1877 & 1880.] Where a summons is issued in
any court of record, an order for the service thereof upon a
defendant residing within the State may be made by the court
or a judge thereof, or the county judge of the county where
the action is triable, upon satisfactory proof, by the affidavit
of a person, not a party to the action, or by the return of the
sheriff of the county where the defendant resides, that proper
and diligent effort has been made to serve the summons upon
the defendant, and that the place of his sojourn cannot be as
certained, or, if he is within the State, that he avoids service,
so that personal service cannot be made.
§ 436. [Am'd 1877.] The order must direct, that the service of the summons be made, by leaving a copy thereof, and
of the order, at the residence of the defendant, with a person
of proper age, if upon reasonable application, admittance can
be obtained, and such a person found who will receive it : or,
if admittance cannot be so obtained, nor such a person found,
by affixing the same to the outer or other door of the defend
ant's residence, and by depositing another copy thereof, prop
erly inclosed in a post-paid wrapper, addressed to him, at his
place of residence, in the post-office at the place where he
resides.
§ 437. The order, and the papers upon which it was
granted, must be filed, and the service must be made, within
ten days after the order is granted ; otherwise the order be
comes inoperative. On filing an affidavit, showing service
according to the order, the summons is deemed served, and
the same proceedings may be taken thereupon, as if it had
been served by publication, pursuant to an order for that pur
pose, made as prescribed in the next section.
§ 438. [AirOd 1879 & 1884.] An order, directing the service of a summons upon a defendant, without the State, or by
publication, may be made in either of the following cases :
u AM) N c ^
1. Where, the defendant to be served is a foreign corporation ; or, being a natural person, is not a resident of the State;
or where, after diligent inquiry, the defendant remains un
known to the plaintifff, or the plaintifff is unable to ascertain
whether the defendant is or is not a resident of the State.
2. Where the defendant, being a resident of the State, has
departed therefrom, with intent to defraud his creditors, or
to avoid the service of a summons ; or keeps himself concealed
therein, with like intent.
3. Where the defendant, being an adult, and a resident of
the State, has been continuously without the United States
more than six months next before the granting of the order,
and has not made a designation of a person, upon whom tr
serve a summons in his behalf, as prescribed in section fou
hundred and thirty of this act ; or a designation so made n
longer remains in force ; or service upon the person so desi;
nated cannot be made within the State, after diligent effor
4. Where the complaint demands judgment annulling
marriage, or for a divorce, or a separation.
5. Where the complaint demands judgment, that the d<
fendant be excluded from a vested or contingent interest n
or lien upon, specific real or personal property within tl
State ; or that such an interest or lien in favor of either part
be enforced, regulated, defined or limited ; or otherwise a
fecting the title to such property.
6. Where the defendant is a resident of the State, or a d
mestic corporation ; and an attempt was made to common)
the action against the defendant, as required in chapter four
of this act, before the expiration of the limitation applicable
thereto, as fixed in that chapter ; and the limitation would
have expired, within sixty days next preceding the applica
tion, if the time had not been extended by the attempt to
commence the action.
7. Where the action is against the stockholders of a corpo
ration, or joint-stock company, and is authorized by a law of
the State, and the defendant is a stockholder thereof.
When a copy of the summons is required by subdivision first
or subdivision second of section four hundred and twenty-six of this act, or by section four hundred and twenty-nine of
this act, to be delivered to a person other than the defendant,
an order, directing the service of a copy of the summons upon
such person without the State, or by publication, may be made
as prescribed in this section, as if such person was the defend
ant in the action, and upon a verified complaint and the same
proof with respect to such person, as is required in the next
succeeding section with respect to a defendant. And sections
four hundred and forty to four hundred and forty-four, both
inclusive, apply to the proceedings in like manner as if such
person was a defendant.
§ 439. [Am?d 1877, 1879.] The crder must be founded
upon a verified complaint, showing a sufficient cause of action
against the defendant to be served, and proof by affidavit of
the additional facts required by the last section ; and also,
where the application is made upon tl le ground that the de
fendant is a foreign corporation, or not a resident of the
State, or in a case specified in subdivision fourth, fifth, or
seventh of the last section, that the pl'intiff has been or will
be unable, with due diligence, to make personal service of the
summons.
§ 440. [Am'd 1879, 1889.] The order may be made by a
judge of the court or the county jui Ige of the county where
the action is triable. It must direct that service of the sum
mons, upon the defendant named or described in the order,
be made by publication thereof in t tvo newspapers, designa
ted in the order as most likely to give notice to the defendant
for a specified time, which the judge deems reasonable, not
less than once a week for six successive weeks ; or, at the op
tion of the plaintifff, by service of the summons, and of a copy
of the complaint and order, without the State, upon the de
fendant personally, and if he is an infant under the age of
fourteen years, also upon the perron with whom he is sojourn
ing ; or, if the defendant is a corporation, upon an officer
thereof, specified in section 431 ov 432 of this act. It must also
contain, either a direction that, t>n or before the day of the
first publication, the plaintifff <i Fposit in a specified post-office,
one or more sets of copies of the summons, complaint and or
der, each contained in a securely closed post-paid wrapper,
directed to the defendant, at, a place specified in the order; or
a statement that the judge being satisfied by the affidavits
upon which the order wba granted, that the plaintifff cannot,
with reasonable diligeace, ascertain a place or places where
the defendant would probably receive matter transmitted
through the post-offici, dispenses with the deposit of any
papers therein.

13 Week.
Dig. 209.
27 Hun, 40.
3 Civ. Pro.
69 ; 4 id.275.
36 Hun, L'Jl.
Id. 317.
112 N. Y.382.
§ 441. [Am?d 1777.] The first publication, in each news
paper designated in the order, or the service upon the defend
ant without the State, must be made within three months af
ter the order is granted. For the purpose of reckoning the
time within which the defendant must appear or answer, ser
vice by publication is complete upon the day of the last pub
lication, pursuant to the order ; and service made without the
State i-j complete upon the expiration thereafter of a time
equal to that prescribed for publication.
§ 442. [Am'd 1877.] Where service is made by publica- 4 Month. 1j.
cation, the summons, complaint, and order, and the papers Bui. 36.
upon which the order was made, must be filed with the clerk, 38 Hun, 152. on or before the day of the first publication ; and a notice,
subscribed by the plaintifffs attorney, and directed only to the
defendant or defendants to be thus served, substantially in
in the following form, the blanks being properly filled up,
must be subjoined to and published with the summons :
"To
: The foregoing summons is served upon
you, by publication, pursuant to an order of
" (nam
ing the judge and his official title), " dated the
day of
, 18 , and filed with the complaint in the office of the
clerk of
, at
"
§ 443. [Am'd 1877.] Where service is made without the
State, the papers specified in the last section must be previ
ously filed ; and a notice must be served with the summons,
in all respects like the notice required by the last section, ex
cept that the words, " without the State of New York," must
be substituted for the words, "by publication."
§ 444. Proof of the publication of the summons and no
tice must be made by the affidavit of the printer or publisher,
or his foreman or principal clerk. Proof of deposit in the
post-office, or of delivery, of a paper required to be deposited
or delivered by the provisions of this article, must be made by
the affidavit of the person, who deposited or delivered it.
30 NY State
§ 445. [im'd 1877.] Where the summons is served, purRep! 694.
suant to an order made as prescribed in this article, and the
defendant so served does not appear, he, or his representa
tive, on application and sufficient cause shown, at any time
before final judgment, must be allowed to defend the action ;
and, except in an action for divorce, or wherein the contrary
is expressly prescribed by law, the defendant, or his repre
sentative, must, in like manner, upon good cause shown, and
upon just terms, be allowed to defend, after final judgment,
at any time within one year after personal service of written
notice therof ; or, if such a notice has not been served, within
seven years after the filiug of the judgment-roll. If the de
fence is successful, and the judgement, or any part thereof,
has been collected or otherwise enforced, such restitution may
thereupon be compelled, as the court directs ; but the title to
property, sold, to a purchaser in good faith, pursuant to a di
rection contained in the judgment, or by virtue of an execu
tion issued upon the same, shall not be affected thereby.
418. Parties united in interest,
4f>l. When defendant or his
when to be joined ; when
his name is unknown,
one or more may sue or
etc., may sue without per45:!. Supplemental summons,
son beneficially inter§ 440. All persons having an interest in the subject of the
action, and in obtaining the judgment demanded, may lie
joined as plaint ill's, except as otherwise expressly prescribed
in this act.
HTN.Y.44'2; SN.Y.Supp. 189.
§ 447. Any person may be made a defendant who has,
or claims an interest in the controversy, adverse to the plaintifff, or who is a necessary party defendant, for the complete
determination or settlement of a question involved therein;
except as otherwise expressly prescribed in this act.
14 N. Y. State Rep. 360; 47 Hun, 239.
^ 448. Of the parties to the action, those who are united
in interest must be joined as plaintifffs or defendants, except as
otherwise expressly prescribed in this act. But if the consent
of any one, who ought to be joined as a plaintifff, cannot be
obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason therefore
being stated in the complaint And where the question is one
of a common or general interest of many persons ; or where
the persons, who might be made parties, are very numerous,
and it may be impracticable to bring them all before the
court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of all.
§ 449. lAm,d 1877.] Every action must be prosecuted in
the name of the real party in interest, except that an executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue, without joining
with him the person for whose benefit the action is prosecuted,
A person, with whom or in whose name, a contract is made
for the benefit of another, is a trustee of an express trust,
within the meaning of this section.
Rep. 77 ; Id. 843 : 53 Hun, 91.
§ 450. [Arrid 1877, 1879, 1800.] In an action or special proceeding a married woman appears, prosecutes or defends
alone or joined with other parties as if she was single. It is
not necessary or proper to join her husband with her as a par
ty in any action or special proceeding affecting her separate
property. The husband is not a necessary or proper party to an
action or special proceeding to recover damages to the person,
estate or character of his wife, and all sums that may be re
covered in such action or special proceedings shall be the sepa
rate property of the wife. The husband is not a necessary or
proper party to an action or special proceeding to recover
damages to the person, estate or character of another on ac
count of the wrongful acts of his wife committed without his
instigation.
§ 451. [Am'd 1879.] Where the plaintifff is ignorant of
the name or part of the name of a defendant, he may designate that defendant, in the summons, aud in any other process or proceeding in the action, by a fictitious name, or by as
much of his name as is known, adding a description, identifying the person intended. Where the plaintifff demands judgment against an unknown person, he may designate that
person as unknown, adding a description, tending to identify
him. In either case, the person intended is thereupon regard
ed as a defendant in the action, aud as sufficiently described
therein, for all purposes, including service of the summons, as
prescribed in article second of the last title. When the name,
or the remainder of the name, or the person, becomes known, an order must, ho made by the court,, upon such notice and
such terms as it prescribes, that the proceedings already taken
be deemed amended, by the insertion of the true name, in
place of the fictitious name or part of a name, or the desig
nation as an unknown person ; and that all subsequent pro
ceedings be taken under the true name.
J5 452. The court may determine the controversy, as be
tween the parties before it, where it can do so without prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their rights; but where
a complete determination of the controversy cannot be had
w'tnout the presence of other parties, the court must direct
them to be brought in. And wnere a person, not a party to
the action, has an interest in the subject thereof, or in real
property, the title to which may in any manner be affected
by the judgment, and makes application to the court to be
madeaparty.it must direct him to be brought in by the
ProPer amendment.
Rep. 978; 27 Id. 302 j 34 Id. 351 ; 123 N.Y. 632.
§ 453. [Am'd 1877.] Where the court directs a new de
fendant to be brought in, and the order is not made upon his
own application, a supplemental summons must be issued,
directed to him, and in the same form as an original sum
mons ; except that, in the body thereof, it must require the
defendant to answer the original or the amended complaint,
and the supplemental complaint, or either of them, as the case
requires. And each provision of this chapter, relating to per
sonal service, or a substitute for personal service of au origi
nal summons, applies to such a supplemental summons.
§ 454. [AirVd 1877.1 Two or more persons, severally lia238
' a^'e uP°n the same written instrument, including the parties
to a bul of exchange or a promissory note, whether the action
is brought upon the instrument, or by a party thereto to re
cover against other parties liable over to nim, may, all or any
of them, be included as defendants in the same action, at the
the option of the plaintifff.
§ 455. The joinder of a person, as defendant in an action,
with another person, as prescribed in the last section, does not
affect his right to any order or other relief, to which he would
have been entitled, if he had been separately sued in the
action.
24 Hun 266§ 456. Where a summons, issued against two or more de25 Id. 266. ' fendants, alleged to be severally liable, is served upon some.
but not upon all of them, the plaintifff may proceed against
those upon whom it is served, as if they were the only defend
ants named therein. Where it is served upon all of them, the
plaintifff may take judgment against one or more of them,
where he would be entitled to judgment, if the action was
against him or them alone. Where judgment is so taken, the
clerk must, upon the plaintifffs application, enter un order.
directing that the action be severed, and that the plaintifff
may proceed against the other defendants. In any subse
quent proceeding, the plaintifff may use, together with a cer
tified copy of such an order, a copy of a paper constituting a
part of the judgment-roll, with like effect as if it was the
original.
§ 457. The last three sections do not affect a defense or
other objection of a defendant, growing out of the failure to
join in the action two or more persons jointly liable ; and, as
regards the other parties to the action, persons jointly liable
are regarded as one party, for every purpose contemplated
by those sections.
§ 458. [Am'd 1891, amendment to take effect September 1, tg N y g
1891.] A poor person, whether an adult or infant, not being er Qt \j [£
of ability to sue, who alleges that he has a cause of action 8.J115.
against another person, may apply by petition to the court in
which the action is pending, or in which it is intended to be
brought, for leave to prosecute as a poor person, and to have
an attorney and counsel assigned to conduct his action.
§ 459. [Am?d 1891, amendment to take effect September I,
1891.] The petition must state :
1. The nature of the action brought or intended to be
brought.
2. That the applicant is not worth one hundred dollars
besides the wearing apparel and furniture necessary for him
self and his family, and the subject matter of the action.
It must be verified by the applicant's affidavit, unless the
applicant is an infant under the age of fourteen years, and in
that case by the affidavit of his guardian appointed in said
action, and supported by a certificate of a counsellor-at-law to
the effect that he has examined the case and is of the opinion
that the applicant has a good cause of action.
§ 460. The court to which the petition is presented, if 49 N.Y. Supsatisfied of the truth of the facts alleged, and that the appli- er Ct. J. &
cant has a good cause of action, may, by order, admit him to °-> ll°prosecute as a poor person, and assign to him an attorney
and counsel to prosecute his action, who must act therein
without compensation.
§ 461. A person so admitted, may prosecute his action,
without paying fees to any officer; and he shall not be pre
vented From prosecuting tne same, by reason of his being
liable for the costs of a former action, brought by him against
the same defendant, [and] if judgment is rendered against
him, or his complaint is dismissed, costs shall not be awarded
against him.
§ 462. If a person so admitted is guilty of improper con
duct in the prosecution of his action, or of willful or unneces
sary delay, the court may, in its discretion, annul the order
admitting him to prosecute
poor person • and heishall
thereafter be deprived "^
vileges conferred thereby.
§ 463. A defendant in an action involving his right, title,
or interest, in or to real or personal property, may petition
the court, in which the action is pending, for leave to defend
the action as a poor person, and to have an attorney and
counsel assigned to conduct his defense.
115N.Y.520.
§ 464. The petition must contain the same matters, re
specting the ability of the petitioner, required to be contained
in a petition for leave to prosecute as a poor person ; and it
must be supported by a similar certificate, relating to the
defense.
§ 465. The provisions of this article, relating to the order,
to be made upon an application for leave to prosecute as a
poor person, and the proceedings subsequent thereto, apply to
the order and subsequent proceedings, upon an application for
leave to defend as a poor person.
38 Hun, 301.
§ 466. An order, made as prescribed in this article, does
not authorize the petitioner to take or maintain an appeal, as
a poor person , but where an appeal is taken by the adverse
party, the order is applicable, in favor of the petitioner, as
respondent in the appeal.
§ 467. "Where costs are awarded in favor of a person,
who has been admitted to prosecute or defend as a poor per
son, as prescribed in this article, they must be paid over to
his attorney, when collected from the adverse party, and dis
tributed among the attorney and counsel assigned to the poor
person, as the court directs.
\ 474. Guardian not to receive
Guardian for infant plainpioperty until security
tiff must be appointed.
given.
Application therefore.
475. Security.
Application for appoint476. Last two sections not to
ment of guardian for inapply to general guardfant defendant.
ian.
Guardian, how appointed.
477. Liability of defendant's
Clerk, when to act.
guardian for coats.
Guardian for absent in§ 468. Where an infant has a right of action, ho is en
titled to maintain an action thereon ; and the same shall not
be deferred or delayed, on account of his infancy.

er.Ct. (J. &
§ 469. [ylm'd 1891, amendment to take effect September 1,
8.) 216.
1891.] Before a summons is issued in the name of an infant plaintifff,
17 Abb. N. a competent and responsible person must be appointed to appear as
C. 391.
his guardian for the purpose of the action, who shall be responsible
for the costs thereof, except where such infant prosecutes as n poor
fierson as provided for under section four hundred and fifty-nine of
his act, in which case security for costs shall not be required.
17 Abb. N.
§ 470. The guardian must be appointed upon the applicai7 ft1" ka« tion of tne infant> lf ne is °f tne aSe of fourteen years, or
17 Hun, 643. UpWards ; or, if he is under that age, upon the application of
his general or testamentary guardian, if he has one, or of a
relative or friend. If the application is made by a relative or
friend, notice thereof must be given to his general or testa
mentary guardian, if he has one ; or, if he has none, to the
person with whom the infant resides.
"loo*' N'
§ 4*11. [Xm'dl879.] An infant defendant must also ap
pear by guardian, who must be a competent and responsible
person, appointed upon the application of the infant, if he is of the age of fourteen years, or upwards, and applies within
twenty days after personal service of the summons, or after
service thereof is complete, as prescribed in section four hun
dred and forty-one of this act ; or, if he is under that age, or
neglects so to apply, upon the application of any other party
to the action, or of a relative or friend of the infant. Where
the application is made by a person, other than the infant,
notice thereof must be given to his general or testamentary
guardian, if he has one within the State ; or, if he has none, to
the infant himself, if he is of the age of fourteen years, or
upwards, and within the State ; or, if he is under that age,
and within the State, to the person with whom he resides.
§ 472. [AitVd 1879.] The court in which the action is 34 Hun, 4.11.
brought, or a judge thereof, or, if the action is brought in the 6 Civ. Pro.
supreme court, the county judge of the county where the 305.
action is triable, may appoint a guardian ad litem for an in
fant, either plaintifff or defendant, as prescribed in this article.
The clerk must act in that capacity for an infant defendant,
where the court or the judge appoints him. No person, other
than the clerk, shall be appointed a guardian ad litem, unless
his written consent, duly acknowledged, is produced to the
court or judge making the appointment.
§ 473. \_ArrCd 1877, 1889.] Where an infant defendant residesout of the State or resides within the State and is tempo
rarily absent therefrom, the court may, in its discretion, make
an order designating aperson to be his guardian ad litem, unless
he, or some one in his behalf, procures such a guardian to be
appointed, as prescribed in the last two sections, within a
specified time after service of a copy of the order. The court
must give special directions in the order, respecting the ser
vice thereof, which may be upon the infant. The summons
may be served by delivering a copy to the guardian so ap
pointed, with like effect as where a summons is served with
out the State upon an adult defendant, pursuant to an order
for that purpose, granted as prescribed in section four hun
dred and thirty-eight of this act ; except that the time to ap
pear or answer is twenty days after the service of the sum
mons, exclusive of the day of service.
§ 474. Except in a case where it is otherwise specially
prescribed by law, a gnardian, appointed for an infant, as
prescribed in this article, shall not be permitted to receive
money or property of the infant, other than costs and ex
penses allowed to the guardian by the court, until he has
given sufficient security, approved by a judge 01 the court, or
a county judge, to account for and apply the same, under the
direction of the court.
§ 475. The security must be a bond to the infant, in such
penalty as the judge directs, not less than twice the sum, or
the value of the property, to be received, executed by the
guardian and at least two sureties approved by the judge,
and filed in the office of the clerk. The infant, or any other
party to the action, may afterwards apply for an order, di
recting a new bond to be given, with an increased penalty ; or
the court may so direct, of its own niotiou.
§ 476. The last two sections do not apply to the general ,_ ,( . ».
guardian of the infant, who has been appointed his guardian q 33j' '
ad litem, as prescribed in this article ; but the court may, at
any time, require the general guardian to give additional
§ 477. A person appointed guardian, as prescribed in this
article for an infant defendant in an action, is not UaWe for
the^H0l°fAhhea0tl0J?'ilnIess sPecia"y charged therewith by
the order of the court, for personal misconduct.
§ 479. [Am'd 1877.] If a copy of the romnlnint ;*
*
delivered to a defendant, at the tn?e of the de?™? y of a copv
of the summons to him, either within or without the State his
attorney may, at any time within twenty days after the ser
vice of the summons is complete, serve up6n the plaints
attorney a written demand of a copy of the comtil-.lSf , i ■ i
must be served within twenty days^thereafterfe^em "„° i
may be incorporated into the notice of appearance Bu
where the same attorney appears for two or more defend
a^S! T^ Tef?°Py of the complaint need be served Zm
him ; and if, after service of a copy of the complaint uEon
him, as attorney for a defendant, he appearsX,X
defendant, the last defendant must answer the comdaint
within twenty days after he appears in the action? COmPldlnt
§ 480 If the plaintifffs attorney fails to serve acoovof
the complaint, as prescribed iu the last section, the defen
ant may apply to the court for a dismissal of the complain!.
13 Abb. N.
f> T^1;itThe,Tv"lpla!nt m,ISt confai" =
c- 21°;„ ,Ui S ■}■, the action, specifying the name of the court
4 (iv. Pro. >n which it is brought; if it is brought iu the supreme c^rt
112.
the name of the county, which the plaintifff designates Vs h
:j. A demand of the judgment to which the plaintifff sup
poses himself entitled.
JS 482. [AviVd 1877.] In an action triable by the court,
without a jury, the plaintifff may, in a proper case, demand
an interlocutory judgment, ana also a final judgment, dis
tinguishing them clearly.
§ 483. Where the complaint sets forth two or more causes
of action, the statement of the facts constituting each cause of
action must be separate and numbered.
{5 484. [Am'd 1877.] The plaintifff may unite in the same
complaint, two or more causes of action, whether they are
such as were formerly denominated legal or equitable, or
both, where they are brought to recover as follows :
N. S. 46; 31 Hun. 596; 32 Id. 332; 52 Super. Ct. (J. & S.) 299 ; 9 Civ.
Pro. 141; 24 N. Y. State Rep. 185; 27 Id. 635.
1. Upon contract, express or implied.
a. For personal injuries, except libel, slander, criminal con
versation, or seduction.
3. For libel or slander.
4. For injuries to real property.
5. Real property, in ejectment, with or without damages
for the withholding thereof.
6. For injuries to personal property.
7. Chattels, with or without damages for the taking or
detention thereof.
8. Upon claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract,
or by operation of law.
9. Upon claims arising out of the same transaction, or tran
sactions connected with the same subject of action, and not
included within one of the foregoing subdivisions of this sec
tion.
But It must appear, upon the face of the" complaint, that all
the causes of action, so united, belong to one of the foregoing
subdivisions of this section ; that they are consistent with
each other ; and, except as otherwise prescribed by law, that
they affect all the parties to the action ; and it must appear
upon the face of the complaint, that they do not require
different places of trial.
§ 485. [Repealed 1877.]
§ 486. [Repealed 1877.]
§ 487. The only pleading on the part of the defendant is.
either a demurrer or an answer,
security for the faithful discharge of his trust be
money or property of the infant, under a iudcn
in the action.
§ 477. A person appointed guardian, aspn
article, for an infant defendant in an action is
the costs of the action, unless specially charged
the order of the court, for personal misconduct.
§ 478. The first pleading, on the part of t
the complaint.
§ 479 Um'eU877.] If a copy of the con
delivered to a defendant, at the time of the deln
of the summons to him, either within or without
attorney may, at any time within twenty days
vice of the summons is complete, serve upon
attorney a written demand of a copy of the con
must be served within twenty days thereafter
may be incorporated into the notice of app
where the same attorney appears for two or
ants, only one copy of the complaint need b(
him ; and if, after service of a copy of the cc
him, as attorney for a defendant, he appear
defendant, the last defendant must answer
withm twenty days after he appears in the acti.
§ 480 If the plaintifffs attorney fails to se
the complaint, as prescribed iu the last seetio.
ant may apply to the court for a dismissal of t
13 Abb. N.
C 2lu.
4 civ. Pro.
112.
f?Abb- N<
c. 430.
31 Hun 432
§ 481 The complaint must contain:
. i- ..n? "V16 ol tlie action, specifying the nam.
I? which it is brought ; if it is brought in the su
the name of the county, which the plaintifff des
Pa?e«itrialj ^nd the names of all the parties
plaintifff and defendant.
'\ A pIam ,ancl Poncise statement of the fact
«acb cause of action, without unnecessary repei
orth. in his »Hn,(
Ijoth, as he
mjininat«-«l
m must be
erpoaed »»
ly refer to
set forth,
expreariy
aiot. or to
set forth.
it is suffiitigale or
■s for the
iry, or an
meaning

fcaatos
rttjarrUmt^.
S»iSl> __ :
kUQ.a-v.,

piain ■
he a

everel;
part vj
*»uo be
fir.-,
of the
tof the
Le the
leas if
Tof the
r other
■plaint

"Bin-wm,
* MaanrrtvaMcuntex'"

tsefo> up
/ .'a ciaim,
•ion of the
, a* nprjQ a
.uatbemade
the merit* of
.erified atpre* «t fan*.

•*•»

* >—<—•
a *•*. %..
t"tfc<
§ 488. [Am'd 1877.] The defendant may demur to the
119N.Y. 348. complaint, where one or more of the following objections
thereto appear upon the face thereof.
1. That the court has not jurisdiction of the person of the
defendant.
2. That the court has not jurisdiction of the subject of the
action.
3. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue.
4. That there is another action pending between the same
.. _
„.. parties, for the same cause.
13 Daly 302
5- That there is a misjoinder of parties plaintifff.
'
6. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant.
26 Hun 10T
^' That causes of action have been improperly united.
13 Daly 302.
8. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to con'
' stitute a cause of action.
§ 489. [Repealed 1877.]
31 Hun, 301;
§ 490. [Ani'd 1877.] The demurrer must distinctly specify
33 Id. 419.
the objections to the complaint ; otherwise it may be disre
garded. An objection, taken under subdivision first, second,
fourth or eighth of section four hundred and eighty-eight of
this act, may be stated in the language of the subdivision ;
an objection, taken under either of the other subdivisions,
must point out specifically the particular defect relied upon.
§ 491. [Repealed. 1877.]
§ 492. The defendant may demur to the whole complaint,
or to one or more separate causes of action, stated therein.
In the latter case, he may answer the causes of action not de
murred to.
§ 493. The defendant may also demur to the reply, or to
a separate traverse to, or avoidance of, a defense or coun
terclaim, contained in the reply, on the ground that it is in
sufficient in law, upon the face thereof.
BlN^Y.Snp§494. The plaintifff may demur to a counterclaim or a desTi 88
fence consisting of new matter, contained in the answer, on
13 NY Slate *ne ground tnat it 's insufficient in law, upon the face thereof.
Rep. 643.
§ 405. [Am'd 1877.] The plaintifff may also demur to a
counterclaim, upon which the defendant demands an affirma
tive judgment, where one or more of the following objections
thereto, appear on the face of the counterclaim :
1. That the court has not jurisdiction of the subject thereof.
2. That the defendant has not legal capacity to recover
upon the same.
3. That there is another action pending between the same
parties, for the same cause.
4. That the counterclaim is not of the character specified in
section five hundred and one of this act.
5. That the counterclaim does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.
§ 496. [Am'd 1877.] A demurrer, taken under the last
section, must distinctly specify the objections to the counter
claim ; otherwise it. may bo disregarded. The mode of specifyiug the objections is the same, as where a demurrer is taken
to a complaint.
§ 497. [Am'd 1877.] Upon the decision of a demurrer,
either at a general or special term, or in the court of appeals,
the court may, in its discretion, allow the party in fault to
answer.
plead anew or amend, upon such terms as are just. If a de
murrer to a complaint is allowed, because two or more causes
of action have been improperly united, the court may, in its
discretion, and upon such terms us are just, direct that the
action be divided into as many action^ as are necessary
for the proper determination of the causes of action therein
stated.
§498. lAm'd 1877.] Where any of the matters cnumerated in section four hundred and eighty-eight of this act as
grounds of demurrer, do not appeir on'the face of the com
plaint, the objection may be taken by answer.
§ 499. If such an objection is not taken, either by demurrer or answer, the defendant is deemed to have waived it ;
except the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, or the
objection that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.
98N.Y.239; 108 Id. 445; 119 Id. 348; 122 Id. 631.

34 Hun, 602.
H9N.Y.348.

20 Hun, 107 ;
31 Id. 596.
"° p,^ ■,?"'£
yr. ijjg
§ 500. lAm'd 1877.] The answer of the defendant must
contain :
110 N. Y. 150.
1. A general or specific denial of each material allegation
of the complaint controverted by the defendant, or of any
knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a belief.
2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense
or counterclaim, in ordinary and concise language, without
repetition.
§ 501. [Am'd 1877.] The counterclaim, specified in the
last section, must tend, in some way, to diminish or defeat
the plaintifff's recovery, and must be one of the following
causes of action against the plaintifff, or, in a proper case,
against the person whom he represents, and in favor of the
defendant, or of one or more defendants, between whom
and the plaintifff a separate judgment may be had in the
action :
23 Abb. N. C. 60.
1. A cause of action, arising out of the contract or transact
ion set forth in the complaint as the foundation of the plain
tiff's claim, or connected with the subject of the action.
2. In an action on contract, any other cause of action on
contract, existing at tfcc commencement of the action.
§ 502. ]4m'iJ 1877.] But the counterclaim, specified in
subdivision second of the last section, is subject to the followin0' rules :
T. If the action is founded upon a contract, which has been
assigned by the psyty thereto, other than a negotiable prom
issory note or bill of exchange, a demand, existing against the
fiarty thereto, or an assignee of the contract, at the time of
he assignment thereof, and belonging to the defendant, in
good faith, before notice of the assignment, must be allowed
as a counterclaim, to the amount of the plaintifffs demand, if
it might have been so allowed against the party, or the
assignee, while the contract belonged to him.
a If the action is upon a negotiable promissory note or bill
of exchange, which has been assigned to the plaintifff after it
became due, a demand, existing against a person who assign
ed or transferred it, after it became due, must be allowed as
a counterclaim, to the amount of the plaintifff's demand, if it
might have been so allowed against the assignor, while the
note or bill belonged to him.
3. If the plaintifff is a trustee for another, or if the action is
in the name of a plaintifff; who has no actual interest in the
contract upon which it is founded, a demand against the
plaintifff shall not be allowed as a counterclaim ; but so much
of a demand existing against the person whom he represents,
or for whose benefit the action is brought, as will satisfy the
plaintifff's demand, must be allowed as a counterclaim, if it
might have been so allowed in an action brought by the per
son beneficially interested*
§ 503 [Am'd 1877.] Where a counterclaim is establish
ed'" which equals the plaintifffs demand, the judgment must
be' in favor of the defendant. Where it is less than the
plaintifffs demand, the plaintifff must have judgment for the
residue only. Where it exceeds the plaintifffs demand, the
defendant must have judgment for the excess, or so much
thereof as is due from the plaintifff. Where part of the ex
cess is not due from the plaintifff, the judgment does not
prejudice the defendant's right to recover, from another per
son, so much thereof as the judgment does not cancel.
§ 504. In a case not specified in the last section, where a
counterclaim is established, which entitles the defendant to
an affirmative judgment, demanded in the answer, judgment
must be rendered For the defendant accordingly.
§ 505. In an action against an executor or an adminis
trator, or other person sued in a representative capacit5", the
defendant may set forth, as a counterclaim, a demand belong
ing to the decedent, or other person whom he represents, where
the person so represented would have been entitled to set
forth the same, in an action against him.
§ 506. In an action brought by an executor or adminis
trator, in his representative capacity, a demand against the
decedent, belonging, at the time of his death, to the defend
ant may be set forth by the defendant as a counterclaim, as
if tlie action had been brought by the decedent in his life-time;
and, if a balance is found to be due to the defendant, judg
ment must be rendered therefore against the plaintifff, in his
representative capacity. Execution can be issued upon such
a judgment, only in a case where it could be issued upon a
judgment, in an action against the exeqptor or administrator.
§ 507. [Am'd 1879.] A defendant may set forth, in his
answer, as many defenses or counterclaims, or Ijoth, as he
has, whether they are such as were formerly denominated
legal or equitable. Each defense or counterclaim must be
separately stated, and numbered. Unless it is interposed as
an answer to the entire complaint, it must distinctly refer to
the cause of action which it is intended to answer.
§508. [Am'd 1877.] A partial defense may be set forth,
as prescribed in the last section; but it must be expressly
stated to be a partial defense to the entire complaint, or to
one or more separate causes of action, therein set forth.
Upon a demurrer thereto, the question is, whether it is suffi
cient for that purpose. Matter tending only to mitigate or
reduce damages, in an action to recover damages for the
breach of a promise to marry, or for a personal injury, or an
injury to property, is a partial defense, within the meaning
of this section.
§ 509. [Am'd 1877.] Where the defendant deems him
self entitled to an affirmative judgment against the plaintifff,
by reason of a counterclaim interposed by him, he must
demand the judgment in his answer.
§ 510. [.Repeated 1877.]
§ 511. [.Am'd 1877, 1879.] Where the answer of the defendant, expressly or by not denying, admits a part of the
plaintifff's claim to be just, the court, upon the plaintifffs
motion, may, in its discretion, order, that the action be severed;
that a judgment be entered for the plaintifff for the part so
admitted ; and, if the plaintifff so elects, that the action be
continued, with like effect, as to the subsequent proceedings,
as if it had been originally brought for the remainder of the
claim. The order must prescribe the time and manner of the
plaintifff's election. If the plaintifff elects to continue the
action, his right to costs upon the judgment is the same, as if
it was taken in an action brought for only that part of the
claim. If the plaintifff does not elect to continue the action
costs must be awarded, as upon final judgment in any other
case.
§ 512. In an action upon contract, where the complaint
demands judgment for a sum of money only, if the defendant,
by his answer, does not deny the plaintifffs claim, but sets up
a counterclaim amounting to less than the plaintifffs claim,
the plaintifff, upon filing with the clerk an admission of the
counterclaim, may take judgment for the excess, as upon a
default for want of an answer. The admission must be made
a part of the judgment-roll.
§ 513. A defense, which does not involve the merits of
the action, shall not be pleaded, unless it is verified as pre
scribed in title second of this chapter.
§ 514. [Am'd 1877.] Where the answer contains a counter- 2l Abb u.
claim, the plaintifff, if he does not demur, m-iy reply to the c.136.
counterclaim. The reply must contain a general or specific denial of each materia] allegation of the counterclaim, con
troverted by the plaintifff, or of any knowledge or informa
tion thereof sufficient to form a belief ; and it may set forth in
ordinary and concise language, without repetition, new matter
not inconsistent with the complaint, constituting a defense
to the counterclaim.
^ 515. If the plaintifff fails to reply or demur to the counter
claim, the defendant may apply, upon notice, for judgment
thereupon ; and, if the case requires it, a reference may be
ordered, or a writ of inquiry may be issued, as prescribed in
chapter eleventh of this act, where the plaintifff applies for
judgment.
46N.Y.8uper. cV(J. &
s. i 21.
63 How. Pr.
1''9'

§ 516. Where an answer contains new matter, constituting a defense by way of avoidance; the court may, in its
discretion, on the defendant's application, direct the plaintifff
t0 reply to the new matter. In that case, the reply, and the
proceedings upon failure to reply, are subject to the same
rules as in the case of a counterclaim.

ercwj"*
§617. {Am'd 1877.] A reply may contain two or more
S.)2l!
distinct avoidances of the same defense or counterclaim ; but
they must be separately stated and numbered.
§ 518. This chapter prescribes the form of pleadings in
21 Hun, 332. atl action, and the rules by which the sufficiency thereof is
determined, except where special provision is otherwise made
by law.
§ 519. The allegations of a pleading; must be liberally :ir, Hun, 571.
construed, with a view to substantial justice between the SON. Y. Sup
er. Ct. (J &
parties.
8.) 301.
§ 520. A pleading mnst be subscribed by the attorney for 4 Month. L.
the party. A copy of eaeh pleading, subsequent to the com Bui. 18.
plaint, must be served on the attorney for the adverse party, 11 Civ. Pro.
within twenty days after service of a copy of the preced 304.
ing pleading.
§ 521. [Ani'd 1S84.] Where the judgment may deter 87 N. Y. 40
mine the ultimate rights of two or more defendants, as be rev'g 20
104.
tween themselves, a defendant who requires such a determi 90 Hun,
N. Y. 306,
nation must demand it in his answer, and must at least twenty rev'g 13
days before the trial serve a copy of his answer upon the Week. Dig.
attorney for each of the defendants to be affected by the de
57.
termination, and personally, or as the court or judge may 47 N.Y. Sup
direct, upon defendants so to be affected who have not duly er, Ct. (J. &
174.
appeared therein by attorney. The controversy between the S5 )Civ.
Pro.
defendants shall not delay a judgment, to which the plaintifff 106.
is entitled, unless the court otherwise directs.
36 Hun, 168;
43 Id- 521 ; 3 N. Y. Supp. 415; 50 Hun, 236; 22 Abb. N. C. 304.
§ 522. Each material allegation of the complaint, not 90 N.Y. 110,
controvered by the answer, and each material allegation of ntf'g24Hun,
new matter in the answer, not controverted by the reply, 265.
where a reply is required, must, for the purposes of the action,
be taken as true. But an allegation of new matter in the
answer, to which a reply is not required, or of new matter in
a reply, is to be deemed controverted by the adverse party,
by traverse or avoidance, as the case requires.
Hun, 150.
§ 523. Where a pleading is verified, each subsequent 25
2 Civ. Pro.
pleading, except a demurrer, or the general answer of an in 34.
fant by his guardian ad litem, must also be verified. But the 33 Hun, 238.
verification may be omitted, in a case where it is not other 6 Civ. Pro.
wise specially prescribed by law) where the party pleading 3P.
would be privileged from testifying, as a witness, concerning 103 N.Y. 242.
an allegation or denial contained in the pleading. A pleading 21 Abb. N.
cannot be used, in a criminal prosecution against the party, C.214.
as proof of a fact admitted or alleged therein.
§ 524. The allegations or denials in a verified pleading 14 Abb. N.
must, in form, be stated to be made by the party pleading. C. 36.
Unless they are therein stated to be made upon the informa 33 Hun. 143.
tion and belief of the party, they must be regarded, for all 110 N.Y. 100.
purposes, including a criminal prosecution, as having been
made upon the knowledge of the person verifying the plead
ing. An allegation that the party has not sufficient knowledge
or information, to form a belief, with respect to a matter,
must, for the same purposes, be regarded as an allegation
that the person verifying the pleading has not such knowledge
or information.
§ 525. [Ani'd 1879.] The verification must bo made by 3 Abb. N. C.
the affidavit of the party, or, if there are two or more parties 13.
united in interest, and pleading together, by at least one of 1 Month L.
Bui. 29.
them, who is acquainted with t he facts, except as follows :
23 Week.
Dig. a*! ; 41 Hun, 58 ; 20 Abb. N. C. 1.
1. Where the party is a domestic corporation, the verifica
15 Civ. Pro.
tion must be made by an officer thereof.
2. Where the people of the State are, or a public officer, in 259
their behalf, is the party the verification may be made by any
porsoii acquainted with the facts,
3. Where the party is a foreign corporation ; or where the
party is not within the county where the attorney resides, or
if the latter is not a resident of the State, the county where
he has his office, and capable of making the affidavit ; or, if
there are two or more parties united in interest, and pleading
together, where neither of them, acquainted with the facts, is
within that county, and capable of making the affidavit ; or
where the action or defense is founded upon a written instru
ment for the payment of money only, which is in the possession
of the agent or the attorney ; or where all the material alle
gations of the pleading are within the personal knowledge of
the agent or the attorney ; in either case, the verification
may be made by the agent of or the attorney for the party.
§ 526. The affidavit of verification must be to the effect,
that the pleading is true to the knowledge of the deponent
except as to the matters therein stated to be alleged on information and belief, and that as to those matters he believes it
to be true' Where Jt is made by a person, other than the
party, he must set forth, in the affidavit, the grounds of his
belief, as to all matters not stated upon his knowledge, and
■ the reason why it is not made by the party.
§ 527. Where the complaint is not verified, and the an
swer sets up a counterclaim, and also a defense by way of
denial or avoidance, the affidavit of verification may be made
to refer exclusively to the counterclaim. In that case, the
last three sections are applicable to the affidavit and the
oounterclaim, as if the latter was a separate pleading.
§528 The remedy for a defective verification of a plead
ing is to treat the same as an unverified pleading. Where
the copy of a pleading is served without a copy of a sufficient
verification, in a case where the adverse party is entitled to a
verified pleading, he may treat it as a nullity, provided he
gives notice, with due diligence, to the attorney of the adverse
party, that he elects so to do.
§ 529. A defendant is not excused from verifying his answer to a complaint, charging him with having confessed or
suffered a judgment, or executed a conveyance, assignment
or other instrument, or transferred or delivered money or
personal property, with intent to hinder, delay, or defraud
his creditors ; or with being a party or privy to such a trans
action by another person, with like intent towards the credi
tors of that person ; or with any fraud whatever, affecting a
right or the property of another.
§ 530. [Am'd 1877.] In pleading a private statute, or
a right derived therefrom, it is sufficient to designate the
statute by its chapter, year of passage, and title, or in some
other manner with convenient certainty, without setting
forth any of the contents thereof.
§ 531. It is not necessary for a party to set forth in a
pleading, the items of an account therein alleged ; but in that
case, he must deliver to the adverse party, within ten days
after a written demand thereof, a copy of the account, which
if the !'lea'li"g is verified, must be verified by his affidavit, to
the effect, that he believes it to be true ; or, if the facts are
within the personal knowledge of the agent or attorney for
the Party' or tlie Party is not within the county where the
attoraey resides, or capable of making the affidavit, by the
atndavit of the agent or attorney. If he fails so to do he is precluded from giving evidence of the account. The court, Id. 771 ; 30
or a judge authorized to make an order in the action, may Id- 18°.
direct the party to deliver a further account, where the one
delivered is defective. The court may, in any case, direct a
bill of the particulars of the claim of either party to be de
livered to the adverse party.
§ 532. In pleading a judgment, or otherdeteiinination, of
a court or officer of special jurisdiction, it is not necessary to
state the facts conferring jurisdiction; but the judgment or
determination may be stated to have boon duly given or
made. If that allegation is controverted, the party pleading must, on the trial, establish the facts conferring jurisdiction.
f533. In pleading the performance of a condition pre- 4 c!iv. Pro.
ent in a contract, it is not necessary to state the facts con- 112.
stituting performance ; but the party may state, generally,
that he, or the person whom he represents, duly performed
all the conditions on his part. If that allegation is contro
verted, he must, on the trial, establish performance.
§ 534. Where a cause of action, defense, or counterclaim,
is founded upon an instrument for the payment of money
only, the party may set forth a copy of the instrument, and
state that there is due to him thereon, from the adverse
partVj a specified sum, which he claims. Such an allegation
is equivalent to setting forth the instrument, according to its
legal effect.
§535. It is not necessary, in an action for libel or slander,
to state, in the complaint, any extrinsic fact, for the purpose
of showing the application to the plaintifff, of the defamatory
matter : but the plaintifff may state, generally, that it was
published or spoken concerning him ; and, if that allegation is
controverted, the plaintifff must establish it on the trial. In
such an action, the defendant may prove mitigating circumstances, notwithstanding that he has pleaded or attempted to
prove a justification.
§ 536. [Am'd 1877.] In an action to recover damages for 93N. Y. 515.
the breach of a promise to marry, or for a personal injury, or 32 Hun, 628.
an injury to property, the defendant may prove, at the trial,
facts, not amounting to a total defense, tending to mitigate
or otherwise reduce the plaintifff's damages, if they are set
forth in the answer, either with or without one or more de
fences to the entire cause of action. A defendant, in default
for want of an answer, may, upon a reference or inquiry to
ascertain the amount of the plaintifff's damages, prove facts
of that description.
§ 537. [Am'd 1877, 1879.] If a demurrer, answer, or reply is frivolous, the party prejudiced thereby, upon a previous notice to the adverse party, of not less than five days,
may apply to the court or to a judge of the court for judgment thereupon, and judgment may be given accordingly. If
the application is denied, an appeal cannot be taken from the
determination, and the denial of the application does not
grejudice any of the subsequent proceedings of either party.
osts, as upon a motion, may be awarded upon an applica
tion pursuant to this section.
§ 538. A sham answer or a sham defense may be stricken out by the court, upon motion, and upon such terms as the
court deems just.
§ 539. A variance, between an allegation in a pleading
and the proof, is not material, unless it has actually misled
the adverse party, to his prejudice, in maintaining his action
or defense, upon the merits. If a party insists that he has
been misled, that fact, and the particulars in which he has
been misled, must be proved to the satisfaction of the court.
Thereupon the court may, in its discretion, order the pleading
to be amended, upon such terms as it deems just.
§ 540. Where the variance is not material, as prescribed
in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found
according to the evidence, or may order an immediate amend
ment, without costs.
§ 541. Where, however, the allegation to which the proof
is directed, is unproved, not in some particular or particulars
only, but in its entire scope and meaning, it is not a case of
variance, within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.
§ 542. Within twenty days after a pleading, or the an
swer or demurrer thereto, is served, or at any time before the
period for answering it expires, the pleading may be once
amended by the party, of course, without costs, and without
prejudice to the proceedings already had. But if it is made
to appear to the court, that the pleading was amended for the
f>urpose of delay, and that the adverse party will thereby
ose the benefit of a term, for which the cause is or may be
noticed, the amended pleading may be stricken out, or the
pleading may be restored to its original form, and such terms
imposed as the court deems just.
§ 543. Where a pleading is amended, as prescribed in
the last section, a copy thereof must be served upon the
attorney for the adverse party. A failure to demur to, or
answer the amended pleading, within twenty days thereafter,
has the same effect as a like failure to demur to, or answer the
original pleading.
§ 544. [im'ii 1877.] Upon the application of either party,
the court may, and, in a proper case, must, upon such terms
as are just, permit him to make a supplemental complaint,
answer or reply, alleging material facts which occurred after
his former pleading, or of which he was ignorant when it was
made ; including the judgment or decree of a competent
court, rendered after the commencement of the action, de
termining the matters in controversy, or a part thereof. The
party may apply for leave to make a supplemental pleadinjr,
either in addition to, or in place of, the former pleading. Iu
the former event, if the application is granted, a provisional
remedy, or other proceeding already taken in the action, is
not affected by the supplemental pleading ; but the right of
the adverse party to have it vacated or set aside, depends
upon the case presented by the original and supplemental
pleadings.
§ 545. [Ain,d 1877.] Irrelevant, redundant, or scanda
lous matter contained in a pleading, may be stricken out, upon
the motion of a person aggrieved thereby. Where scandalous
matter is thus striken out, the attorney whose name is sub
scribed to the pleading may be directed to pay the costs of
the motion, and his failure to pay them may be punished as a
contempt of the court.
§546. [Airi'd 1877.] Where one or more denials or allcgu- 36 Hun, 70.
tions, contained in a pleading, are so indefinite or uncertain
that the precise meaning or application thereof is not appar
ent, the court may require the pleading to be made definite
and certain, by amendment.
§ 547. [Repealed 1877.]
§ 548. [Am!d 1877.] A person shall not be arrested in a
civil action or special proceeding, except as prescribed by
statute. The writ of ne exeat is hereby abolished.
§ 549. [Am'd 1877, 1879, 1886.] A defendant may be ar
rested in an action, as prescribed in this title, where the ac
tion is brought for either of the following causes :
12 Daly, 516; 8 N. Y. State Rep. 851; 21 Abb. N. C. 257; 22 Id. 73; 23 Id.
93; 25 N. Y. State Rep. 629; 5 N.Y.Supp. 716; 6 Id. 405 ; 122N.Y.551.
1. To recover a fine or penalty.
2. To recover damages for a personal injury ; an injury to
property, including the wrongful taking, detention or conversion of personal property ; breach of a pr< unise to marry ;
misconduct or neglect in office, or in a professienal employ
ment ; fraud or daceit; or to recover a chattel where it is al
leged in the complaint that the chattel or a part thereof has
been concealed, removed or disposed of so that it cannot be
found or taken by the sheriff and with intent that it should not
be so found or taken, 01 to deprive the plaintifff of the benefit
thereof ; or to recover for money received or to recover property or damages for the conversion or misapplication of prop
erty where it is alleged in the complaint that the money was
received or the property was embezzled or fraudulently mis
applied by a public officer or by an attorney, solicitor or
counsellor, or by an officer or agent of a corporation or bank
ing association in the course of his employment, or by a fac
tor, agent, broker, or other person in a fiduciary capacity.
Where such allegation is made, the plaintifff cannot recover
unless he proves the same on the trial of the action; and a
judgment for the defendant is not a bar to the new action to
recover the money or chattel.
3. To recover monies, funds or property held or owned by
j^e state, or held or owned officially or otherwise for or in be
half of a public or governmental interest by a municipal or
other public corporation, board, officer, custodian, agency or
agent, of the State or of a city, county, town, village or
other division, subdivision, department or portion of the State
which the defendant has without right obtained, received,
converted or disposed of ; or to recover damages for so ob
taining, receiving, paying, converting or disposing of the
same.
4. In an action upon contract, express or implied, other than
a promise to marry, where it is alleged in the complaint that
the defendant was guilty of a fraud in contracting or incurrm& tne lability, or that ne nas since the making of the contract, or in contemplation of making the same, removed or
disposed of his property with intent to defraud his creditors,
or is about to remove or dispose of the same with like intent ;
but where such allegation is made, the plaintifff cannot recover unless he proves the fraud on the trial of the action ; and a
judgment for the defendant is not a bar to a new action to recover upon the contract only.
§ 550. [im'ii 1877, 1S79, 1886.] A defendant may also be
arrested in an action wherein the judgment demanded requires
tne performance of an act the neglect or refusal to perform
which would be punishable by the court as a contempt where
the defendant is not a resident of the State, or being a resi
dent, is about to depart therefrom, by reason of which nonresidence or departure there is danger that a judgment or an
order requiring the performance of the act will be rendered
ineffectual.
§ 551. [Am'd 1877, 1886.] In a case specified in the last
section the order of arrest can be granted only by the court,
is always in its discretion, and may be granted or servea
either before or after final judgment, unless an appeal from
the judgmentjs pending upon which security has been given
sufficient to stay the execution thereof. In either of the cases
specified in section five hundred and forty-nine the order
cannot be served after final judgment ; but it maybe granted
where a proper case therefore is presented at any time before
final judgment.
22Hun,5G5.
g 552. The recovery of judgment in a court, not of the
State, for the same cause of action ; or, where the action is
founded upon fraud or deceit, for the price or value of the
property obtained thereby ; does not affect the right of
plaintifff to arrest the defendant, as prescribed in this title.
§ 553. [Am'd 1877.] A woman cannot be arrested, as
prescribed in this title, except in acase where the order can be
granted only by the court ; or where it appeal's, that the u.o~tion is to recover damages for a willful injury to person,
character or property.
§ 554. [Am'ii 1877.] A lunatic, an idiot, or an infant un
der the age of fourteen years, if arrested, may be discharged
from arrest, as a privileged person, in the discretion of the
court. The application for his discharge may be made, in his
behalf, by a relative, or by any other person whom the court
or judge permits to represent him, for the purpose.
§ 555. A person prosecuted in a representative capacity,
as heir, executor, administrator, legatee, devisee, next of
kin, assignee, or trustee, cannot be arrested, as prescribed in
this title, except for his personal act.
§ 556. lAm'd 1877.] An order for the arrest of the defendant, except at otherwise prescribed in section five hun
dred and fifty-one of this act, must be obtained from a judge
of the court in which the action is brought, or from any
county judge.
§ 557. lAnVd 1877, 1879.] The order may be granted,
in a case specified in section five hundred and forty-nine of
this act, where it appears by the affidavit of the plaintifff or
any other person, that a sufficient cause or action exists
against the defendant, as prescribed in that section. It may
be granted, in a case specified in section five hundred and
fifty of this act, upon the like proof that a sufficient cause of
action exists against the defendant, as prescribed in that sec
tion, and of the other matters, extrinsic to the cause of action,
specified in that section. The affidavit may also contain any
statement tending to determine the amount of bail to be re
quired.
S- 558. [Am'd 1877, 1879, 1886.] Subject to the provisions
of the last preceding section the order may be granted at any
time after the commencement of the action. It may also be
granted to accompany the summons, but at any time after
the filing or service of the complaint the order of arrest must
be vacated on motion if the complaint fails to set forth a sufficient cause of action as required by section five hundred
and forty-nine of this act, but where the order is applied for
after the filing or service of the complaint, the court before
granting the same may without notice direct the service of an amended complaint so as to conform to the allegations re
quired in subdivisions two and four of section five hundred
and forty-nine of this act.
?} p"n,P231'
§ 559- lAm'd 1879.] Except where the action is brought
433
r° ^or a cause specified in subdivision third of section five hun
dred and forty-nine of this act, or in a case where it is spe
cially prescribed by law that security may be dispensed with,
or the security to be given is specially regulated by law, the
judge, before he grants the order, must require a written un
dertaking, on the part of the plaintifff, with two sufficient
sureties, to the effect that, if the defendant recovers judg
ment, or if it is Anally decided that the plaintifff was not en
titled to the order of arrest, the plaintifff will pay all costs
which may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages
which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding
the sum specified in the undertaking, which must be at least
equal to one-tenth of the amount of Dail required by the order,
and not less than two hundred and fifty dollars.
§ 560. Where the order can be granted only by the
C821
court, an undertaking on the part of the plaintifff may be disEensed with. If it is required, its form, and the security to
e given thereupon, must be such as the court prescribes.
33 Hun, 114.
§ 561. [Am'd 1877.] The order must be subscribed by the
plaintifff's attorney, and, except where it is granted by the
court, by the judge. It may be directed, either to the sheriff
of a particular county, or, generally, to the sheriff of any
county. It must require the sheriff forthwith to arrest the
defendant, if he is found within his county ; to hold him to
bail in a specified sum ; and to return the order, with his pro
ceedings thereunder, as prescribed by law. The plaintifff's
attorney may, at his option, by an endorsement upon the
order, or, where it was granted by the court, upon the copy
thereof, delivered to the sheriff, fix a time within which the
defendant must be arrested. In that case he cannot be
arrested afterwards under the same order.
§ 562. [Am'd 1877, 1879.] The order of arrest, or, where
it is granted by the court, a certified copy thereof, subscribed
by the plaintifffs attorney ; and in either case, the papers
upon which the order was granted, with the undertaking, if
any, must be delivered to the sheriff, who, upon arresting the
defendant, must deliver to him a copy thereof. The papers
upon which the order was granted, with the undertaking if
any, must be filed with the order of arrest, or a certified copy
thereof, at the time prescribed for filing the same in section
five hundred and ninety of this act.
§ 563. The sheriff must execute the order by arresting
the defendant, if he is found within his county, and keeping
him in custody, until discharged by law.
§ 564. [Am'd 1877.] This title does not abridge or affect
a privilege from arrest given by law, or a right of action for
a breach thereof. A privileged person is entitled to be dis
charged from arrest, where other provision is not made there
for by law, by the court, or a judge thereof ; or by the county
judge of the county, or a judge of a superior city court of the
city, where the arrest was made. The order must be made,
upon proof, by affidavit, of the facts entitling the applicant to
the discharge ; and the arrest and discharge are not a bar to
a new arrest, after the privilege has ceased. The court or judge may make the order without notice, or may require
notice to be given to the sheriff, or to the plaintifff, or to both.
§ 565. An officer of a court of record, appointed or elect
ed pursuant to law, is privileged from arrest, during the
actual sitting, which he is required to attend, of a term of the
court of which he is an officer, and no longer ; but an attorney
or counsellor is not thus privileged, unless lie is employed in a
cause, to be heard at that term.
§ 566. Except where an order of arrest can bo granted
only by the court, a defendant, arrested before answer, has
twenty days after the arrest, in which to answer the com
plaint ; and judgment must be stayed accordingly.
§ 567. [Am'd 1877.] Except where an order of arrest can
be granted only by the court, a defendant, arrested as pre
scribed in this title, may, at any time before final judgment,
or, if he was arrested within twenty days before final judg
ment, at any time within twenty days after the arrest, apply
to vacate the order of arrest ; or to reduce the amount of
bail ; or to increase the security given by the plaintifff ; or for
one or more of those forms of relief, together, or in the alter
native. In a case where the order of arrest can be granted
only by the court, a like application may be made, at any
time within twenty days after the arrest ; and an application
to increase the security given by the plaintifff, may be made
at any time before final judgment.
§ 568. [Am'd 1877.] An application, specified in the last
section, may be founded only upon the papers upon which the
order was granted ; in which case, it must be made to the
court, or, if the order was granted by a judge out of court, to
the same judge, in court or out of courtj and with or without
notice, as he deems proper, and the application must be heard
, upon those papers only. Or it may be founded upon proof,
by affidavit, on the part of the defendant ; in which case, it
must be made to the court, or, if the order was granted by a
judge, out of court, to any judge of the court, upon notice ;
and it may be opposed by new proof, by affidavit, on the part
of the plaintifff, tending to sustain any ground of arrest reci
ted in the order, and no other, unless the defendant relies upon
a discharge in bankruptcy, or upon a discharge or exonera
tion, granted in insolvent proceedings ; in which case, the
plaintifff may show any matter in avoidance thereof, which he
might show upon the trial.
§ 572. [Am'd 1877, 1882, 1886.] Except in a case where an
order of arrest can be granted only by the court if the plain
tiff unreasonably delays the trial of the action or neglects to
enter judgment therein within ten days after it is in his power
to do so, or neglects to issue execution against the person of
the defendant within ten days after the return of the execu
tion against the property, and in any event neglects to issue
the same within three months after the entry of the judgment,
or whenever it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court
that the plaintifff in an action, or a judgment creditor in a
judgment, delays the enforcement of his remedies therein by
collusion, or for the purpose of allowing the debtor to remain
in prison under the mandate in any other action, before the issuing of the mandate in favor of such creditor, so as to pro
duce a continued and extended imprisonment by virtue of
the separate mandates in the different actions, the defendant
must upon his application, made upon notice to the plaintifff,
be discharged from custody if ho has already been taken
under the mandate against him in such action ; or if he has
not yet been imprisoned therein, be relieved from imprison
ment by virtue of such mandate, by the court in which the ac
tion was commenced, unless reasonable cause is shown why the
application should not be granted. A defendant discharged
as prescribed in this section shall not be arrested upon an exe
cution issued upou the judgment in the action.
§ 573. The defendant, at any time before he is in con- •
tempt, where the order can be granted only by the court, or,
in any other case, at any time Before execution against his
Eerson, must be discharged from arrest, either upon giving
ail, or upon depositing the sum specified in the order of
arrest. The defendant may give bail, or make the deposit,
immediately upon his arrest at any hour of the day or night ;
and he must have reasonable opportunity to see * for and to
procure bail, before being committed to jail.
8 574. Where the defendant is actually confined in the
jail, by virtue of an order of arrest, and final or interlocutory
judgment has been rendered against him in the action, but an
execution against his person hits not been issued, he may elect,
either to give a bond for the liberties of the jail, or to give
bail or make a deposit, as prescribed in this article.
118 N. V. 187:
§ 575. The defendant may give bail, by delivering to the
122 lil. 551. sheriff a written undertaking, in the sum specified in the order
of arrest, executed by two or more sufficient bail, stating
their places of residence and occupations, to the following
effect :
1. If the order of arrest could be granted only by the court,
that the defendant will obey the direction of court, or of an
appellate court, contained in an order or a judgment, requir
ing him to perform the act specified in the order ; or, in de
fault of his so doing, that he will, at all times, render himself
amenable to proceedings to punish him for the omission.
• So in original.
2. If the action is to recover a chattel, that the defendant
will deliver it to the plaintifff, if delivery thereof is adjudged
in the action, and will pay any sum recovered against him in
the action.
3. In any other case, that the defendant will, at all times,
render himself amenable to any mandate which may be issued
to enforce a final judgment against him in the action.
§ 576. lAm'd 1877, 1879.] It is not necessary that the
undertaking should be approved or accompanied with an
affidavit of justification of the bail. But the officer taking tho
acknowledgment of the undertaking, must, if the sheriff so re
quires, examine under oath, to a reasonable extent, the per
sons offering to become bail, concerning their property and
their circumstances. The examination must be reduced to
writing, subscribed by the bail, and annexed to the under
taking.
§ 577. [.Am'd 1879.] Within three days after bail is given,
the sheriff must deliver to the plaintifff's attorney copies,
certified by him, of the order of arrest, return and underta
king. The plaintifff's attorney, within ten days thereafter,
must serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does not accept
the bail ; otherwise he is deemed to have accepted them, and
the sheriff is exonerated from liability.
§ 578. Within ten days after the receipt of the notice,
the sheriff or the defendant may serve upon the plaintifff's
attorney, notice of the justification of the same or other bail,
specifying the place of residence and occupation of each
of the latter, before a judge of the court, or a county judge,
at a specified time and place ; the time to be not less than five
nor more than ten days thereafter, and the place to be within
the county where one of the bail resides, or where the defend
ant was arrested. If other bail are given, a new undertaking
must be executed, as prescribed in section five hundred and
seventy five of this act.
§ 579. The qualifications of bail are as follows :
1. Each of them must be a resident of, and a householder or
freeholder within the State.
2. Each of them must be worth the sum specified in the or
der of arrest, exclusive of property exempt from execution :
but the judge, on justification, may allow more than two bail
to justify, severally, in sums less than that specified in the or
der, if the whole justification is equivalent to that of two suf
ficient bail
§ 580. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail
must attend before the judge, at the time and place men
tioned in the notice, and be examined on oath, on the part of
the plaintifff, touching his sufficiency, in such manner as the
judge, in his discretion, thinks proper. The judge may, in his
discretion, adjourn the examination from day to day, until it
is completed ; but such an adjournment must always be to the
next judicial day, unless by consent of parties. If required
by the plaintifffs attorney, the examination must be reduced
to writing, and subscribed by the bad.
§ 58 1 . If the judge finds the bail sufficient, he must annex 93 N.Y. 67.
the examination to the undertaking, indorse his allowance
thereon, and cause them to be filed with the clerk. The sher
iff is thereupon exonerated from liability.
§ 582. The defendant may, instead of giving bail, deposC. 221.
it with the sheriff the sura specified in the order. The sheriff
must thereupon give the defendant a certificate of the depos
it, and discharge him from custody.
m
§ 583. The sheriff must, within four days after the der <wn
posit, pay it into court. He must take, from the officer reO. Sw.
ceiving it, two certificates of the payment, one of which ho
must deliver to the plaintifff, and the other to the defendant.
For a default in making the payment, the official bond of the
sheriff may be prosecuted, as in any other case of delinquency.
1 How. Pr.
§ 584. If money is deposited, as prescribed in the last two
N. 8. 274.
sections, bail may be given, and may justify upon notice, at
18 Abb. [N. any time before the expiration of the right to be discharged on
C. 320.
bail. Thereupon the ludge, before whom the justification is
• had, must direct, in the order of allowance, that the money
deposited be refunded to the defendant, or his representative,
and it must be refunded accordingly.
18 Abb' N'
§ 585. If money deposited is not refunded, as prescribed
C. 320.
jn the last section, it is, in a case, where the order of arrest
could be granted only by the court, subject to the direction of
the court, as justice requires, before and after the judgment.
In any other case, if it remains on deposit, when final judg
ment is rendered for the plaintifff, it must be applied, under
the direction of the court, in satisfaction of the judgment ; and
the surplus, if any, must be refunded to the defendant, or his
representative. If the final judgment is for the defendant, or
the action abates, or is discontinued, the sum deposited, and
remaining unapplied, must be refunded to the defendant or
his representative.
18 Abb. N.
§ 588. At any time before the deposit is paid into court,
C. 320.
the defendant may deliver to the sheriff a written direction,
to pay it to a third person, therein specified, in the event that
the defendant becomes entitled to a return thereof; but with
out expressing any other contingency. The direction must be
acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like manner as a
deed to be recorded ; and the sheriff must deliver it to the of
ficer who receives the deposit, who must note the substance
•
thereof, with the entries or the deposit, in his books, and upon
the two certificates of payment into court. The money tnus
deposited is deemed the property of the third person, subject
to the plaintifffs interest therein ; and subject to the rights of
a creditor of the defendant, where the direction was given for
the purpose of hindering, delaying, or defrauding creditors.
The money, or the residue thereof, must be paid to the third
person, where, by the provisions of the last two sections, it is
required to be refunded to the defendant, or his representa
tive.
§ 58"7- [Am'cj 1877.] If, after the defendant is arrested,
* Month, li jje escapes or js rescued, or the bail, if any, given by him, do
2 Oiv Pro. not Justify, when they are not accepted, or if the sheriff fails
5j_ '
' to pay the deposit into court as required by section five hunered and eighty-three of this act, tne sheriff is liable as bail.
But the sheriff may, except in an action to recover a chattel,
discharge himself from liability, by the giving and justifica
tion of bail, as follows :
1. If the case is one where the order could be granted only
by the court, at any time before the court directs the perform
ance of the act specified in the order.
2. In any other case, at any time before an execution is
issued against the person of the defendant, upon a judgment
in the action.
§ 588. If judgment is recovered against the sheriff, upon
his liability as bail, and an execution thereon is returned
wholly or partly unsatisfied, the official bond of the sheriff
may be prosecuted, as in any other case of delinquency.
§ 589. [Am'd 1877.] The bail taken upon the arrest, unless
they justify, or other bail are given and justify, are liable to
the sheriff for all damages, which he sustains by reason of the
omission.
§ 590. ,4m'd 1879.] Within ten days after the defendant
is arrested if he does not give bail, or if he gives bail, within
ten days after the justification of the bail, the sheriff must file
with the clerk the order of arrest, or, where it was granted
by the court, the certified copy thereof, delivered to him,
with his return thereupon endorsed, the papers upon which
the order of arrest was granted, and the undertaking given
on the part of the plaintifff. Where an order of arrest, direct
ing the arrest of two or more defendants, has been executed
as to one or more, but not as to all of them, the sheriff may
file a copy of the order of arrest, instead of the original.
§ 591. Except in an action to recover a chattel, the bail
may surrender the defendant in their own exoneration, or the
defendant may surrender himself in exoneration of the bail,
before the expiration of the time to answer, in an action
against them. The surrender must be made to the sheriff of
the county, where the defendant was arrested.
§ 592. Where the bail surrender the defendant, the sur
render must be made in the following manner :
L They must take the defendant to the sheriff, and require
him, in writing, to take the defendant into his custody.
2. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail must be
delivered to the sheriff, who must detain the defendant in his
custody thereupon, as upon the original mandate, and must,
by a certificate in writing, acknowledge the surrender. Upon
the application of the bail, made upon notice to the plaintifff's
attorney, and upon production of the sheriffs certificate and
a copy of the undertaking, a judge of the court, or the county
judge of the county where the action is triable, may make an
order, directing that the bail be exonerated. On filing the
order and the papers used on the application therefore, the bail
are exonerated accordingly. m
| 593. \Am>& 1877.] For the purpose of surrendering the
defendant, the bail, at any place or at any time before they
are finally charged, may themselves arrest him, or, by a
written authority, endorsed on a certified copy of the under
taking, may empower another person to do so. And one or
more of the bail may thus arrest and surrender the defendant,
although the others do not join with him or them, for that
purpose.
i
§ 594. Where the defendant surrenders himself in exon
eration of his bail, he must present himself to the sheriff, and
require the sheriff, in writing, to take him into custody, in
exoneration of his bail. The sheriff must detain him accord
ingly, as prescribed in subdivision second of section five hun
dred and ninety-two of this act ; and, if requested by the bail,
at any time after the surrender, the sheriff must, by a certifi
cate in writing, acknowledge the surrender. An order for
the exoneration of the bail may be procured, as prescribed in
section five hundred and ninety-two of this act.
§ 595. Where the sheriff is liable as bail, he has all the
rights and privileges, and is subject to all the duties and
liabilities of bail ; and bail given by him, in order to discharge
himself from liability, must be regarded as the bail of the de
fendant in the action. But this section does not apply to an
action to recover a chattel ; or to a case where a defense
arises to an action against the bail, in consequence of an act
or omission of the sheriff.
§ 596. In case of failure to comply with the undertaking,
the bail may be proceeded against by action, and not other
wise.
§ 691'. An action may be brought, as prescribed in tb%
Jas* section, in a case where the order of arrest could be
granted only by the court, at any time after the bail have
failed to comply with their undertaking. Where the under
taking was given in an action to recover a chatteh an action
may De brought thereupon, at any time after the return,
wholly or partly unsatisfied, of an execution for the delivery of
the possesion of the chattel, with respect to which the order
of arrest was granted. In any other case, an action cannot
be brought, as prescribed in the last section, until the follow
ing requisites have been complied with :
1. An execution, against the property of the defendant,
must have been issued to the sheriff of the county in which he
■was arrested, and returned by that sheriff, wholly or partly
unsatisfied.
2. An execution, against the person of the defendant, must
have been issued to the same sheriff, and by him returned, not
less than fifteen days after its receipt, to the effect that the
defendant could not be found within his county.
§ 598. [Am'd 1877.] The sheriff must diligently endeavor
to enforce an execution issued and delivered to him, its pre
scribed in the last section, notwithstanding any direction he
may receive from the plaintifff, or his attorney.

88 N Y 611
§ 599. [Am'd 1877.] In an action against bail, it is a de4i>n!y. Sup- fence, that an execution, against the property, or against the
er. Ct (J. & person, of the defendant in the original action, was not issued,
S.) 206.
as prescribed in section five hundred and ninety-seven of this
act ; or that it was not issued in sufficient time to enable the
sheriff to enforce it ; or that a direction was given, or other fraudulent or collusive means were used, by the plaintifff or
his attorney, to prevent the service thereof.
§ 600. If the defendant in the orignal action, after his
discharge upon bail, is imprisoned, either within or without
the State, upon a criminal charge, or a conviction of a criminal offense, the court, in which an action against the bail is
pending, may, before the expiration of the time to answer,
and upon notice to the adverse party, make such an order for
the relief of the bail, as justice requires.
§ 601. [Am'd 1877.] Except in an action to recover a
chattel, the bail must be exonerated where either of the fol
lowing events occurs, before the expiration of the time to
answer in an action against them :
1. The death of the original defendant.
3. His legal discharge from the obligation to render himself
amenable to the process, direction, or proceedings, with re
spect to which the undertaking^of the bail was made.
3. His surrender to the sheriff of the county where he was
arrested, as prescribed in this article.
Where either event occurs, after the commencement of the
action against the bail, the court may, in its discretion, impose
the payment of the plaintifff's costs and expenses, incurred
after the return of the execution against the person, as a con
dition of allowing the exoneration. And the court may, by
an order, made upon notice to the adverse party, grant such
further time as it deems just, after answer, for the surrender
of the original defendant. In that case, his surrender, within
the time so granted, has the same effect, as if it had been
made before answer.
§ 602. The writ of injunction has been abolished. A tem
porary injunction may be granted by order, as prescribed in
this article.
§ 0O3. Where it appears, from the complaint, that the
plaintifff demands and is entitled to a judgment against the
defendant, restraining the commission or continuance of an
act, the commission or continuance of which, during the pendency of the action, would produce injury to the plaintifff, an
injunction order may be granted to restrain it. The case provided for in this section, is described in this act, as a case
where the right to an injunction depends upon the nature of
the action.
§ 604. [Am'd 1877.] In either of the following cases, an
injunction order may also be granted in an action :
1. Where it appears, by affidavit, that the defendant, dur
ing^ the pendency of the action, is doing, or procuring, or
suffering to be done, or threatens, or is about to do, or to pro
cure, or suffer to be done, an act, in violation of the plaintifff's
rights, respecting the subject of the action, and teuding to
render the judgment ineffectual, an injunction order may be
granted to restrain him therefrom.
«•> H .w. Pr.
2. Where it appears, by affidavit, that the defendant, dur
518.
ing the pendency of the action, threatens, or is about to
1:5 Civ. Pro. remove, or to dispose of his property, with intent to defraud
440.
the plaintifff, an injunction order may be granted to restrain
the removal or disposition.
§ 605. Where a duty is imposed by statute upon a State
24 Week.
officer, or board of State officers, an injunction order to re
Iiir. 174.
4(3 JIim,607. strain him or them, or a person employed by him or them,
from the performance of that duty, or to prevent the execu
tion of the statute, shall not be granted, except by the su
preme court, at a general term thereof, sitting in the depart
ment in which the officer or board is located, or the duty is
required to be performed ; and upon notice of the application
therefore to the officer, board, or other person to be restrained.
§ 606. Except where it is otherwise specially prescribed
52 N.Y. Sup
er. Vt. (J. & by law, an injunction order may be granted by the court in
S.)53.
which the action is brought, or by a judge thereof, or by any
county judge ; and where it is granted by a judge, it may be
enforced as the order of the court.
§ 607. [Arrid 1877.] The order may be granted, where it
appears to the court or judge, by the affidavit of the plaintifff,
or any other person, that sufficient grounds exist therefore.
§ 608. [An/I'd 1877.] The order may be granted to accom
pany the summons, or at any time after the commencement
of the action and before final judgment.
$5 609. [AirCd 1877.] The order may be granted, upon or
without notice, in the discretion of the court or judge, unless
the defendant has answered ; in which case, it can be granted
only upon notice, or an order to show cause. Where an appli
cation for an injunction is made upon notice, or an order to
show cause, either before or after answer, the court or judge
may enjoin the defendant, until the hearing and decision of
the application.
3 Month. L.
Bui. <«.
12 N.Y.Stftte
Rep- 370.
Hi 1 iv. Pro.
129.

§ 610. The injunction order must briefly recite the grounds
for the injunction. Where it is granted by the court, it must
be served by delivering a certified copy thereof ; where it is
granted by a judge, it must, be served by showing the original
order, and delivering a copy thereof. Service of the order,
upon a corporation, may be made as prescribed in this act, for
making personal service of a summons upon a corporation.
Copies of the papers, upon which the order was granted, must
be delivered with the copy of the order.
§ 611. An injunction order shall not be granted, to stay
the trial of an action, in which the complaint demands judg
ment for a sum of money only, after issue hits been joined
therein, unless the party applying therefore gives an under
taking to the party enjoined, "with sufficient sureties, to the
effect, that he will pay to the party enjoined, or his repre
sentative, all damages and costs, which may be recovered by
him in the action stayed by the injunction, not exceeding a
sum, specified in the undertaking; and, also, all damages and
costs tnat may be awarded to him, in the action in which the
injunction order is granted.
§012. An injunction order shall be not granted, to stay
proceedings in an action specified in the last section, after ver
dict, report, or decision, and before final judgment thereupon,
unless a sum of money, sufficient to cover the sum awarded by
the verdict, report, or decision, and the costs of the action, is
first paid, by the party applying for the injunction into the
court, in which his action is commenced, or an undertaking for
the payment thereof, with interest, is given, as prescribed in
this article.
§ 613. [ArrCd 1877.] An injunction order shall not bo
granted, to stay proceedings upon a judgment for a sum of
money, unless the following requisites are complied with, by
the party applying therefore :
1. The full amount of the judgment, including interest and
costs, must be paid by him, into the court in which his action
is commenced ; or an undertaking in lieu thereof must be
given, as prescribed in this article.
2. He must also give an undertaking, with sufficient sure
ties, to pay to the party enjoined, all damages and costs,
which may be awarded to him by the court, in the action in
which the injunction order is granted ; not exceeding a sum,
specified in the undertaking.
§ 814. Money paid into court, as prescribed in the last two
sections, may be paid over, by the direction of the court, to
the party whose proceedings are stayed, upon his giving an
undertaking to the people of the State, with sufficient sureties,
in a sum fixed by the court, to pay the money and interest, or
any part thereof, as directed in the order or judgment of the
court.
§ 615. Where money so paid into court has been paid
over to the party whose proceedings are stayed, if the final
decision of the action, in which the injunction order is granted,
is against the party obtaining it, the court must give such directions, as justice requires, with respect to cancelling the un
dertaking given by the successful party ; making perpetual
the injunction staying collection of the judgment ; and requir
ing the judgment to be discharged of record.
§ 616. An injunction order shall not be granted, to stay
proceedings in an action of ejectment, or for dower, after
verdict, report, or decision, unless the party applying there
for gives an undertaking, with sufficient sureties, to pay to
the party enjoined, or his representative, all damages and
costs, not exceeding a sum specified in the undertaking, which
may be awarded to him, in the action wherein the injunction
was granted.
§ 6 1 7. Where an undertaking is given, as prescribed in
the last section, the damages to be paid, upon the vacating of
the injunction order, or the decision of the action against the
party obtaining it, include, not only the reasonable rents and
profits of the real property, recovered by the verdict, report,
or decision, but all waste committed upon the property, after
the granting of the injunction.
r? wf£k'
§ 618. In a case, where money is required by the foreDig. 448.
going sections of this article, to be paid into court, the court or
judge may dispense with the payment, and may require the
party to give, in lieu thereof, an undertaking, with two or
more sureties, to pay the sum specified, with interest, as di
rected by the court. If an undertaking is required, in addi
tion to the deposit, both undertakings may be contained in the
same instrument, at the election of the party applying for the
injunction.
§ 610. The foregoing sections of this article do not apply
to a case, where an injunction order is applied for, to stay
proceedings in another action, on the ground that a judgment,
verdict, report, or decision therein was obtained by actual
fraud. In that case, the court or judge granting the injunc
tion order may dispense with the deposit of money, or the
execution of an undertaking, except as prescribed in the next
section.
§ 620. [Am'd 1877.] Where special provision is not other11 Civ. Pro. wiSe made by law for the security to be given upon an iujuucsl°tion order, the party applying therefore must give an under
taking, executed by him, or t>y one or more sureties, as the
court or judge directs, to the effect, that the plaintifff will pay
to the party enjoined, such damages, not exceeding a sum,
specified in the undertaking, as he may sustain by reason of
the injunction, if the court finally decides that the plaintifff
was not entitled thereto.
§ 621. The foregoing provisions of this article do not
affect any special statutory provision, whereby security upon
granting an injunction order may be dispensed with, in a par
ticular case, or the security to be given in a particular case is
otherwise regulated.
§ 622. [Repealed 1877.]
31 Hun, 309.
§ 623. [Am'd 1877.] The damages, sustained by reason
of an injunction, may be ascertained and determined by the
court, or by a referee, appointed by the court, or by a writ of
inquiry or otherwise, as the court shall direct; and the decision
of the court thereupon, or an order confirming the report of
the referee, is conclusive, as to the amount of those damages, upon all the persons who have executed the undertaking, un
less it is reversed upon appeal. The court may in its discre
tion, direct that the sureties have notice of the hearing, or of
an appeal, and may prescribe the time and manner of giving
them notice.
§ 624. Where the defendant enjoined was an officer of a
corporation, or joint stock association, or a bailee, agent,
trustee, or other representative of another, and the damages
sustained by him, are less than the sum specified in the under
taking, the court or the referee may also separately ascertain
and determine the damages sustained, by reason of the in
junction, by the corporation, association, or person, whom the
defendant represent s, to an amount not exceeding the surplus
of the sum specified in the undertaking ; and those damages
may be recovered in a separate action, brought as prescrib
ed m the next section.
§ 625. Where the damages have been ascertained by the
decision of the court, or the confirmation of a referee's re
port, as prescribed in the last two sections, any person, entitled
to the benefit of an undertaking, executed pursuant to the
provisions of this title, may bring an action thereon, with
out further leave of the court.
§ 626. Where the injunction order was granted without
notice, the party enjoined may apply, upon the papers upon
which it was granted, for an order vacating or modifying the
injunction order. Such an application may be made, without
notice, to the judge who granted the order, or who held the
term of the court where it was granted ; or to the general
term of the court. It cannot be made without notice, to any
other judge or term, unless the applicant produces proof, by
affidavit, that, by reason of the absence or other disability of
the judge who granted the order, the application cannot be
made to him ; and that the applicant will be exposed to great
injury, by the delay required for an application upon notice.
The affidavit must be filed with the clerk ; and a copy there
of, and of the order vacating or modifying the injunction
order, must be served upon the plaintifff's attorney, before
that order takes effect.
§ 627. [Am'd 1877, 1879.1 Where the injunction order
was granted without notice, or where it was granted upon
notice with leave to apply to vacate or modify it, the party
enjoined may apply upon notice, to the judge who granted it,
or to the court, at a term where a contested motion in the
action may be heard, for an order, vacating or modifying the
injunction order. Such an application may be founded upon
the papers upon which the injunction was granted ; or upon
proof, lby affidavit, on the part of the defendant, or both.
Where it is founded upon proof on the part of the defendant ;
it may be opposed by new proof, by affidavit, on the part of
the plaintifff, tending to sustain the injunction.
55 628. The granting or denial of an application, made as
prescribed in the last section, founded only upon the papers upon which the injunction order was granted, does not preju
dice a subsequent application, seasonably made founded upon
proof, by affidavit, on the part of the defendant. And the
granting or denial of either application does not prejudice a
subsequent application, seasonably made, founded upon the
failure of a complaint, which had not been made at the time
of the former application to set forth a cause of action, suffi
cient to entitle the plaintifff to the injunction order, upon one
or more grounds, recited therein.
_ 629. lArrfd 1883, 1884.] Upon the hearing of an application upon notice to vacate or modify an injunction order,
tne court or judge may require a new undertaking in the
same or in a different sum to be given by the plaintifff with the
like sureties and to the like effect as upon granting an original
order. The persons executing the new undertaking become
liable thereon as if they had executed it upon the granting of
the original order. The persons who executed the original
undertaking remain liable thereon until the new undertaking
is given and approved and no longer. Upon such hearing the
court or judge may, where the alleged wrong or injury is not
irreparable, and is capable of being adequately compensated
for in money, vacate the injunction order upon the defend
ant's executing an undertaking in such form and amount and
with such sureties as the court or judge shall direct, condi
tioned to indemnify the plaintifff against any loss sustained by
reason of vacating such injunction order.
§630. Upon the hearing of a contested application for an
injunction order, or to vacate or modify such an order, a
verified answer has the effect only of an affidavit.
§ 635. [Arri'd 1877.] A warrant of attachment against
the property of one or more defendants in an action, may be
granted upon the application of the plaintiff, as specified in
the next session* where the action is to recover a sum of
money only, as damages for one or more of the following
causes :
32 Hun, 255; 38 Id. 202 ; 1(18 N.Y. 270.
1. Breach of contract, express or implied, other than a contract to marry.
2. Wrongful conversion of personal property.
3. Any other injury to personal property, in consequence of
negligence, fraud or other wrongful act.

28 Hun, 22.
11 Abb. N.
C. 176.
ijl.{?un,3ni.
* 1T- rro'

^ Y R| .
H " ' ^
47 Hun, 23,.

§ 636. [Arri'd 1877.] To entitle the plaintifff to such a war- 23 Alb. L. J.
rant, he must show, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the 2'sjudge granting the same, as follows :
1*4 -I" 4!>l
WN.Y.141; 26 Hun, 24 ; 27 Id. 517; 4 Civ. Pro. 319; 29 Hnn, 265; 6
'
Civ. Pro. 268 n. ; 15 Abb. N. C. 354; Id. 480 ; 41 Hun, 60 ; 91 N.Y. 608.
1. That one of the causes of action specified in the last sec- 27 Hun, 242.
tion exists against the defendant. If the action is to recover lis N.Y. 4 •:<;
damages for breach of a contract, the affidavit must show l'9 Id. "*'•
that the plaintifff is entitled to recover a sum stated therein,
over and above all counterclaims known to him.
2. That the defendant is either a foreign corporation or not lt AbD
a resident of the State ; or, if he is a natural person and a c. 175.
resident of the State, that he has departed therefrom, with
intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of a
summons, or keeps himself concealed therein with the like in
tent ; or, if the defendant is a natural person, or a domestic
corporation, that he or it has removed, or is about to remove,
property from the State, with intent to defraud his or its
creditors ; or has assigned, disposed of, or secreted, or is
about to assign, dispose of, or secrete property, with the like
intent

N

§ 637. [Arri'd 1877.] A warrant of attachment, against
the property of one or more defendants in an action, may also 91 N. Y. 668.
be granted, upon the application of the plaintifff, where the
complaint demands judgment for a sum of money only ; and
it appears, by affidavit, that the action is brought to recover
money, funds, credits, or other property, held or owned by
the State, or held or owned, officially or otherwise, for or in
behalf of a public governmental interest, by a municipal or
other public corporation, board, officer, custodian, agency,
or agent, of the State, or of a city, county, town, village,
or other division, subdivision, department, or portion of the
State, which the defendant has, without right, obtained,
received, converted, or disposed of ; or in the obtaining, re
ception, payment, conversion, or disposition of which, with
out right, he has aided or abetted ; or to recover damages for
so obtaining, receiving, paying, converting, or disposing of
the same ; or the aiding or abetting thereof. In order to en
title the plaintifff to a warrant of attachment, in a case speci
fied in this section, he must show, by affidavit, to the satis
faction of the judge granting it, that a sufficient cause of
action exists against the defendant, for a sum, stated in the
affidavit.
* So in original.
§ 638. [Am'd 1877.] The warrant may be granted by a
judge of the court, or by any county judge, to accompany the
summons, or at any time after the commencement of the
ac'''oni an<^ Dei°re final judgment therein. Personal service
°* *ne summons must be made upon the defendant, against
whose property the warrant is granted, within thirty days
after the granting thereof; or else, before the expiration of
the same time, service of the summons by publication must be
commenced, or service thereof must be made without the
State, pursuant to an order obtained therefore, as prescribed
in this act ; and if publication has been, or is thereafter com
menced, the service must be made complete by the continu
ance thereof.
§ 639. [Am'd 1877.1 The plaintifff procuring the warrant
must, within ten days after the granting thereof, cause the
affidavits, upon which it was granted, to be filed in the office
of the clerk.
§ 640. The judge, before granting the warrant, must
require a written undertaking, on the part of the plaintifff,
with sufficient sureties, to the effect, that if the defendant
recovers judgment, or if the warrant is vacated, the plaintifff
will pay all costs, which may be awarded to the defendant,
and all damages, which he may sustain by reason of the
attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the underta
king, which must be at least two hundred and fifty dollars.
But this section does not apply to a case, where the action is
brought for a cause specified in section six hundred and thirtyseven of this act, or where it is specially prescribed by law
that security may be dispensed with, or where the security to
be given is specially regulated by law.
§ 641. The warrant must be subscribed by the judge and
*ne plS'iutin*'8 attorney, and must briefly recite the ground of
the attachment. It may be directed, either to the sheriff of a
fiarticular county, or, generally, to the sheriff of any county,
t must require the sheriff to attach and safely keep, so much
of the property, within his county, which the defendant has,
or which he may have, at any time before final judgment in
the action, as will satisfy the plaintifffs demand, with costs
and expenses. The amount of the plaintifffs demand must be
specified in the warrant, as stated m the affidavit. Warrants
may be issued at the same time, to sheriffs of different coun
ties.
§ 642. It is not a defense to an action npon an underta
king, given upon granting a warrant of attachment, that the
warrant was granted improperly, for want of jurisdiction, or
for any other cause.
§ 643. {Repealed 1877.]
8 644. [Am'd 1877.] The sheriff must immediately execute the warrant, by levying upon so much of the personal
and real property of the defendant, within his county, not
exempt from levy and sale by virtue of an execution, as will
satisfy the plaintifffs demand, with the costs and expenses.
He must take into his custody all books of account, vouchers,
and other papers, relating to the personal property attached,
and all evidences of the defendant's title to the real property
attached, which he must safely keep, to be disposed of, as
prescribed in this title. The sheriff, to whom a warrant of
attachment is delivered, may levy, from time to time, and as
often as is necessary, until the amount, for which it was
issued, has been secured, or final judgment has been rendered
in the action, notwithstanding the expiration of his term of
office.
§ 645. The real property, which may be levied upon by
virtue of a warrant of attachment, includes any interest in
real property, either vested or not vested, which is capable of
being aliened by the defendant.
§ 646. Under a warrant of attachment against a foreign
corporation^ other than a corporation created by or under the
laws of the United States, the sheriff may levy upon the sum
remaining unpaid upon a subscription to the capital stock of
the corporation, made by a person within the county ; or upon
one or more shares of stock therein, held by such a person, or
transferred by him, for the purpose of avoiding payment
thereof.
§ 647. The rights or shares which the defendant has in
the stock of an association or corporation, together with the
interests and profits thereon, may be levied upon ; and the
sheriff's certificate of the sale thereof entitles the purchaser
to the same rights and privileges, with respect thereto, which
the defendantnad, when they were so attached.
§ 648. Upon a cause of action arising upon contract ; including a
bond, promissory note, or other instrument for the payment of
money only, negotiable or otherwise, whether past due, or yet
to become due, executed by a foreign or domestic govern
ment, state, county, public officer, association, municipal or
other corporation, or by a private person, either within or
without the State, which belongs to the defendant, and is
found within the county. The levy of the attachment there
upon is deemed a levy upon, and a seizure and attachment of,
the debt represented thereby.
§ 649. lAnVd 1870, 1889.] A levy under a warrant of at
24 N.Y.State
tachment must be made as follows :
Rep. 740.
14 Abb. N. C. 383 ; 115 N. Y. 251 116 Id. 492.
1. Upon real property, by filing with the clerk of the coun
ty where it is situated, a notice of the attachment, stating the
names of the parties to the action, the amount of the plain
tiff's claim, as stated in the warrant, and a description of the
particular property levied upon.
The notice must be subscribed by the plaintifff's attorney,
adding the office address ; and must be recorded and indexed
by the clerk, in the same book, in like manner, and with like
effect, as a notice of the pendeucy of an action.
2. Upon the personal property capable of manual delivery,
39 Hun, 35. including a bond, a promissory note, or other instrument for
32N.Y.8tate
the
payment of money, by taking the same into the sheriffs
Rep. 206.
actual custody. He must thereupon, without delay, deliver
to the person from whose possession the property is taken, if
any, a copy of the warrant, and of the affidavits upon which
it was granted.
3. Upon other personal property, by leaving a certified copy
of the warrant, and a notice showing the property attached,
with the person holding the same ; or, if it consists of a de
mand, other than as specified in the last subdivision, with the
person against whom it exists; or, if it consists of right or share
in the stock of an association or corporation, or interest or
profits thereon, with the president, or other head of the asso
ciation or corporation or the secretary, cashier, or managing
agent thereof.
4. Upon property discovered in any action brought as pre
scribed in subdivision two of section six hundred and fifty-five
of this1 act, by entering in the proper clerk's office, the judg
ment rendered in said action, and thereafter levying on said
property in the manner prescribed in subdivisions one, two
and three of this section.
§ 650. Upon the application of a sheriff, holding a war
1 Month. L.
rant of attachment, the president or other head of an associa
Bill. 42.
25 Hun, 441. tion or corporation, or the secretary, cashier, or managing
13 Civ. Pro. agent thereof, or a debtor of the defendant, or a person hold
77.
ing property, including a bond, promissory note, or other in
strument for the payment of money, belonging to the defend
ant, must furnish to the sheriff a certificate, under bis hand,
specifying the rights or number of shares of the defendant,
in the stock of the association or corporation, with all divi
dends declared, or encumbrances thereon ; or the amount,
nature, and description of the property, held for the benefit of
the defendant, or of the defendant's interest in property so
hold, or of the debt or demand owing to the defendant, as the
case requires.
§ 851. If a person, to whom application is made, as prescribed in the last section, refuses to Rive such a certificate :
or if it is made to appear, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of
the court, or a judge thereof, or the county judge of the
county to which the warrant is issued, that there is reason to
suspect that a certificate given by him is untrue, or that it
fails fully to set forth the facts, required to be shown thereby;
the court or judge may make an order, directing him to attend, at a specified time, and at a place within the county to
which the warrant isissued, and suDmit to an examination un
der oath, concerning the same. The order may, in the discre
tion of the court or judge, direct an appearance before a ref
eree named therein.
§ 652. Except as otherwise prescribed in the next section
the owner or master of a vessel, on board of which goods of a
defendant, against whom a warrant of attachment is issued,
have been shipped for transportation, without reshipment or
transshipment in the State, to a port or place without the
State, may transport and deliver them according to their des
tination, notwithstanding the warrant ; unless the plaintifff,
his agent or attorney, executes to the owner or the master of
the vessel, a written undertaking, with sufficient sureties, in a
sum specified therein, to pay him all expenses, damages, and
charges, which may be incurred by him, or to which ne may
be subjected, for unlading the goods from the vessel, and for
all necessary detention of the vessel, for that purpose. The
undertaking must be approved, with respect to its form, the
sum specified therein, and the sufficiency of the sureties, by a
judge of the court, or the county judge of the county wherein
the vessel is situated, or, in the city and county of New York,
by a judge of a superior city court within that city and county.
§ 853. The last section does not apply, where the owner
or master, before the shipment of the goods, had actual infor
mation of the granting of the warrant, or where he has, in
any wise, connived at, or been privy to, the shipment thereof,
for the purpose of screening them from legal process, or of
hindering, delaying, or defrauding creditors.
§ 054. The sheriff must, immediately after levying under
a warrant of attachment, make, with the assistance of two
disinterested freeholders, a description of the real property,
and a just and true inventory of the personal property, upon
which it was levied, and of the books, vouchers, and other
papers taken into his custody, stating therein the estimated
value- of each parcel of real property attached, or of the inter
est of the defendant therein, and of each article of personal
property, enumerating such of the latter as are perishable.
The inventory must be signed by the sheriff and the apprais
ers ; and must, within five days after the levy, be filed in the
office of the clerk of the county, where the property is at
tached.
§ ©55. [Am'd 18*).] 1. The sheriff must, subject to the
direction of the court or judge, collect and receive all debts,
effects and things in action attached by him. He may main
tain any action or special proceeding in his own name or in
the name of the defendant, which is necessary, for that pur
pose, or to reduce to his actual possession an article of per
sonal property, capable of manual delivery, but of which he
has been unable to obtain possession, and he may discontinue
such an action or special proceeding, at such time and on such,
terms, as the court or judge directs,
3. Where the summons was served without the State, or by
publication, pursuant to an order obtained for that purpose,
as prescribed in chapter fifth of this act ; and where the de
fendant has not appeared in the action (otherwise than specally) but has made default and before entering final judgment,
the sheriff may in aid of said attachment, maintain an action
against the attachment debtor, and any other person or per
sons, or against any other person or persons to compel the
discovery of any thing in action, or other property belonging
to the attachment debtor : and of any money, thing in action,
or other property due to him, or held in trust for him, or to
prevent the transfer thereof, or the payment or delivery
thereof, to him, or any other person, and the sheriff may, iu
aid of said attachment, also maintain any other action against
the attachment debtor and any other person or persons, or
against any other person or persons, which may now be main
tained by a judgment creditor in a court of equity, either be
fore the return of an execution in aid thereof, or after the
return of an execution unsatisfied. The judgment in any of
the above-mentioned actions must provide and direct that the
said property shall be applied by the sheriff, to the satisfac
tion of any judgment winch the plaintifff may obtain in the
attachment action.
25 Hun, 367.
§ 656. [im'd 1877.] If property attached, other than a
vessel, is perishable, the court or judge may, by an order
made, with or without notice, as the urgency of the case in
its or his opinion requires, direct the sheriff to sell it at public
auction, and thereupon the sheriff must sell it accordingly. If
it consists of live animals, the same proceedings may be had,
but such notice shall be given to the parties to the action, of
the application for the order, as the court, or judge prescribes.
The order directing the sale must prescribe the time and place
of the sale, and notice thereof must be given in such manner
and for such time as is prescribed in the order. The sheriff
must retain in his hands the proceeds of the sale, after de
ducting his expenses, as allowed by the court or judge.
§ 65V. If goods or effects, other than a vessel, attached
31 Hun, 256. as the property of the defendant, are claimed by or in behalf
of another person, as his property, the sheriff may, in his dis
cretion, empanel a jury to try the validity of the claim.
§ 658. [AnVd 1877, 1888.] If, by their inquisition, the jury
find the property of the goods or effects to have been in the
claimant, at the time of the levy, the sheriff must forthwith
deliver them to him or his agent, unless the plaintifff gives an
undertaking with sufficient sureties, to indemnify the sheriff
for the detention thereof. If the undertaking is given the
sheriff must detain the goods or effects, as the property of the
defendant; and in the county of New York, where an under
taking is given to indemnify the sheriff, he must, within two
days alter the giving of the said undertaking, cause the same
to be filed in the office of the court out of which the attach
ment was issued, and serve upon the claimant or his agent,
and the attaching creditor or the attorney, whose name is
.subscribed to the warrant of attachment, a copy of the said
undertaking, with a notice of the justification of the sureties
thereon. The justification must take place before a judge of
the court out of which the attachment was issued, at a time to
be specified in the notice, which must not be less than two nor
more than five days after tiio serving of the said notice. For the purpose of justification each of the sureties upon the un
dertaking must attend before the judge at the time and place
mentioned in the notice, and be examined on oath on the part
of the claimant, or his agent or attorney, touching his suffi
ciency, in such manner as the judge, in his discretion, thinks
proper. The examination may be adjourned from day to
day until it is completed, but such adjournment must always
be to the next judicial day. If required by the claimant, his
assignee or other representative, the examination must be re
duced to writing and subscribed by the sureties. If the judge
finds the sureties sufficient he must annex the examination
to the undertaking, indorse his allowance thereon, and cause
the said undertaking, together with the examination of the
sureties, to be filed with the clerk of the court. Thereupon
the sheriff is released and discharged from all further liability,
by reason of the taking and detention of the property seized.
When any such undertaking shall have been approved and
filed, as hereinabove provided, the clerk of the court in which
the same shall be filed shall immediately index the same in
the general index book in his office under the title of the suit
in which the attachment is issued.
§ 658. If the property is found to be in the defendant,
the finding does not prejudice the right of the claimant to
bring an action, to recover the goods or effects, or the value
thereof.
§ 660. Where a vessel, belonging to a port or place in the
United States or a share or interest therein, is attached, the
court or judge, on the application, within thirty days there
after, of a person claiming title thereto, or of his agent, must
appoint three indifferent persons to make a valuation thereof.
§ 601. [Arti'd 1877.] A valuation of a vessel, or of a
share or interest therein, made as prescribed in this article,
must be in writing, and subscribed by the appraisers ; each of
whom must take and subscribe an affidavit, annexed thereto,
to the effect, that the valuation is in all respects, just and
fair, and that the value of the vessel, share, or interest is truly
stated therein, according to the deponent's belief. The valur
ation must be immediately returned to the court or judge ;
and, after an undertaking is given, or after the expiration of
the time to give an undertaking, as prescribed in the next
section, it must be delivered to the sheriff.
§ 662. Within two days after the valuation is returned,
the claimant or his agent may execute an undertaking to the
sheriff, •with sufficient sureties, approved by the court or
judge, who must justify in twice the appraised value, to the
effect, that, in an action to be brought on the undertaking,
the claimant will establish that he was the owner of the vessel,
share, or interest, at the time of the levy thereupon ; and
that, in case of his failure to do so, he will pay the amount of
the valuation, with interest from the date of the undertaking,
to the sheriff ; or, if the warrant is vacated or auuulled, to
the defendant, or his personal representative.
§ 663. Upon such an undertaking being executed and de
livered to the sheriff, the court or judge must make an order,
directing the vessel or share to be discharged from the attach
ment. Thereupon the sheriff must discharge the same accor
dingly.
§ 664- The court or judge may, upon the application of either party, at any time before the warrant is vacated or
annulled, direct the sheriff to commence an action upon the
undertaking, upon such terms and conditions, and under such
regulations, between him and the applicant, as it or he deems
just. And if the warrant of attachment is vacated or an
nulled, the defendant in the attachment, his assignee or per
sonal representative, may commence and maintain an action
upon the undertaking, or may be substituted, in place of the
sheriff, in an action pending thereupon.
§ 665. In such an action, the claimant may show, in bar
of a recovery, that he was the owner of the vessel, share, or
interest, at the time when it was attached. If judgment
passes against him, the plaintifff is entitled to recover the
amount of the valuation, with interest from the date of the
undertaking.
§ 666. Where a foreign vessel, or a share or interest
therein, is attached, it must be valued, as prescribed in sec
tions six hundred and sixty, and six hundred and sixty-one of
this act, upon the application of a person, who makes affi
davit, to the effect that he is the owner thereof, or that he is
the agent of a person, naming him and his residence, whom he
believes to be the owner of the vessel, share, or interest atr
tached.
§ 667. [Am'd 1877.] Such notice of the application must
be given to the plaintifff, as the court or judge deems reas
onable.
§ 668. Within three days after the valuation is returned,
the plaintifff must give, to the person in whose behalf the
claim is made, an undertaking, with sufficient sureties, ap
proved by the court or judge, who must justify in twice the
appraised value, to the effect that they will pay such damages
as may be recovered for seizing the vessel, share, or interest,
in an action brought against the sheriff, or the plaintifff in the
attachment, within three months from the approval of the
undertaking, if it appears therein that the vessel, share, or
interest belonged, at the time of attaching it, to the person in
whose behalf the claim is made.
f669. Unless such an undertaking is given, the court or
ge must grant an order discharging the vessel, share, or
interest so claimed, from the attachment ; whereupon the
sheriff must discharge the same accordingly.
8 670. If, after such an undertaking is given by the plain
tiff, the warrant is vacated or annulled, or the attachment is
discharged asyto the vessel, share, or interest, the defendant
or his agent is entitled to claim the same, or the proceeds
thereof, if it has been sold, only upon hisshowing; to the satis
faction of the court or judge, that the undertaking has been
discharged ; or giving to the plaintifff an undertaking, with
sufficient sureties, approved by the court or judge, who must
justify in twice the appraised value, to the effect, that they
will indemnify the plaintifff against all charges and expen
ses, in consequence of the undertaking.
§ 671. If the undertaking of the plaintifff is not discharged,
or he is not indemnified, as prescribed in this article, within
one month after the defendant becomes entitled to claim the
vessel, share, or interest, as so prescribed, it may be sold by
the sheriff, in whose custody it is, upon an order of the court or judge ; and the 'proceeds of the sale must Be paid to- the
persons who executed the undertaking, for their indemnity.
§ 672. If a claim is not made, by or in behalf of an owner
of a domestic vessel, or of a share or interest therein, within
thirty days after it is attached, or if the proper undertaking
is not executed by the claimant ; or if a claim is not made,
within that time, by or in behalf of the owner of a foreign
vessel, or of a share or interest therein ; the vessel, share, or
interest, may be sold by the sheriff, under an order of the
court or judge, upon the application of the plaintifff, if, in the
opinion of the court or judge, a sale is necessary. •
§ 673. Where a share or interest in a vessel, foreign or
domestic, is attached, if the proper claim to it is not made, by
or in behalf of an owner thereof, within thirty days there
after, it may be sold by the sheriff, under an order of the
court or judge, upon the application of a joint owner, or his
agent.
§ 674. lAm'd 1877.] The sheriff must keep the property
attached by him, or the proceeds of property sold, or of a
demand collected by him, to answer any judgment that may
be obtained against the defendant in the action.
§ 675. But the court, upon the application of either party
to the action, may direct the sheriff, either before or after the
expiration of his term of office, to pay into court the proceeds
of a demand collected, or property sold ; or to deposit them
in a designated bank or trust company, to be drawn out only
upon the order of the court.
§ 676. lAm'd 1877.] Where the proceeds of the property
sold, and of the demands collected by the sheriff, exceed the
amount of the plaintifff's demand, with the costs and expenses,
and of all other warrants of attachment or executions in the
sheriff's hands, chargeable upon the same ; the court, or the
judge who granted the warrant, upon the application of the
defendant, or of an assignee of, or purchaser from the defend
ant, and upon notice to the plaintifff, and the plaintifffs in the
other warrants, or executions, may, at any time during the
pendency of the action, make an order, directing the sheriff
to pay over the surplus to the applicant, and to release from
the attachment the remaining real and personal property at
tached.
§ 677. [Am'dim.] The plaintifff, by leave of the court
or judge, procured as prescribed in the next section, may
bring and maintain, in the name of himself and the sheriff
jointly, by his own attorney and at his own expense, any
action which, by the provisions of this title, may be brought by
the sheriff to recover property attached, or the value thereof,
or a demand attached, or upon an undertaking given, as pre
scribed in this title, by a person other than the plaintifff ; the
plaintifff, in his own name and the sheriff's jointly, may also
bring and maintain any action which, by the provisions of
subdivision two of section six hundred and flfty-nye of article
second of this title, may be brought by the sheriff. The sheriff
must receive the proceeds of such an action, but he is not liable
for the costs or expenses thereof. Costs may be awarded in
such an action against the plaintifff in the warrant, but not
against the sheriff.
§ 678. The court or judge must grant leave to bring such
an action, where it appears, that due notice of the application therefore has been given to the sheriff ; bnt, before doing so,
C.4:i3.
the court or judge may require that notice of the application
be given to the plaintifff, in any other warrant against the
same defendant. And such terms, conditions, and regula
tions may be imposed, in the order granting leave, as the
,
court or judge thinks proper, for the due protection of the
rights and interest of all persons, interested in the disposition
of the proceeds of the action.
110 N Y 83
§ 679. Leave may, in like manner and with like effect, be
' ' ' granted to the plaintifff in the warrant, to be joined with the
sheriff, in an action brought by the sheriff, in a case where he
might have procured leave to bring the action, as prescribed
in the last two sections. Upon an application therefore, the
court or judge may, in a proper case, require the plaintifff to
provide for the expenses in the action, already incurred by
the sheriff. The application must be denied, in case of an un
reasonable delay in making it ; or where an application was
made, before the action was brought, and the plaintifff neg. lected or refused, without a good excuse therefore, to comply
with the terms, conditions or regulations then imposed.
§ 680. The court or judge may, upon the application of the
sheriff, or of the defendant in the warrant, during the pen
dency of an action, brought as prescribed in the last three
sections, direct as to the conduct, discontinuance, or settle
ment of the same, and as to the application or disposition of
the money or property recovered therein, as justice requires.
§ 68 1 . Upon the application of either party, and proof of
the neglect of the sheriff, the court or judge may, by order,
require the sheriff to return an inventory. Disobedience to
such an order may be punished, as a contempt of the court.
§682. [Am'ti 1877.] The defendant, or a person who has
acquired a lien upon, or interest in, his property, after it was
attached, may, at any time before the actual application of
tne attached property, or the proceeds thereof, to the payDient of a judgment recovered in the action, apply to vacate
or modify tilic warrant, or to increase the security, given by
the paintiff, or for one or more of those forms of relief, togeth
er, or in the alternative.
§ 683. An application, specified in the last section, may
be founded only upon the papers upon which the warrant \v;.s
granted ; in which case, it must be made to the court, or, if
the warrant was granted by a judge out of court, to the same judge, in court or out of court, and with or without no- 31 Hun, 424.
tice, as he deems proper. Or it may bo founded upon proof, 42 Hiin'sw.
by affidavit, on the part of the defendant ; in which case, it
must be made to the court, or, if the warrant was granted by
a judge out of court, to any judge of the court, upon notice ;
aud it may be opposed by new proof, by affidavit, on the part
of the plaintifff, tending to sustain any ground for the attach
ment, recited in the warrant, and no other, unless the defend
ant relies upon a discharge in bankruptcy, or upon a discharge
or exoneration, granted in insolvent proceedings ; in which
case, the plaintifff may show any matter, in avoidance there
of, which he might show upon the trial.
§ 687. The defendant may, at any time after he has ap- 3 Abb. N. C.
peared in the action, and before final judgment, apply to the 9judge who granted the warrant, or to the court for an order .
to discharge the attachment, as to the whole or a part of the
property attached.
§ 688. [4m't? 1877.] Upon such an application, the de- 16Hun,C24;
fendant must give an undertaking, with at least two sufficient 3" Id- ''■>•
sureties, to the effect that he will, on demand, pay to the
plaintifff the amount of any judgment which may be recovered
in the action against him, not exceeding a sum specified in t lie
undertaking, with interest. The sum so specified must be at
least equal to the amount of the plaintifff's demand, as speci
fied in his affidavit ; or, at the option of the defendant, equal
to the appraised value, according to the inventory, of the
property attached ; or, if the application is to discharge the
attachment, as to a part only of the property attached, to the
appraised value of that portion.
§ 689. Where there are two or more defendants, and an
application is made, as prescribed in the last two sections, by
one or more, but not by all of them, the undertaking must
provide for the payment of any judgement, which may be re
covered against any of the defendants in the action, unless
the applicant makes proof, by affidavit, to the satisfaction
of the court or judge, that the property, with respect to
which the application is made, belongs to him separately ; in
which case, the undertaking must provide for the payment of
any judgment, which may be recovered in the action against the
applicant, either alone or jointly with any other defendant.
Where an application is made, as prescribed in this section, at
least two days' notice thereof, with a copy of the affidavit,
must be served upon the plaintifff's attorney, who may oppose
the application by proof, Dy affidavit, that one or more of the
other defendants own, or have an interest in the property.
§690. [Arri'd 1877.] An undertaking, given as prescribed
in the last two sections, must be forthwith filed with the clerk.
A copy thereof, with a notice of the filing must be forthwith
served upon the plaintifffs attorney ; who may, within three
days thereafter, give notice to the sheriff, that he excepts to
the sufficiency of the sureties. Thereupon the sureties must
justify upon the like notice, and in like manner, as bail upon
an arrest ; or a new undertaking must be given, with new
sureties, who must justify in like manner. If the plaintifff does
not except, as prescribed in this section, he is deemed to have
waived all objection to the sureties.
§ 69 1 . The sheriff is responsible for the sufficiency of the
sureties ; and he may retain possession of the property at-,
tached, and the proceeds thereof, until the objection to them
is waived, as prescribed in the last section, or they, or the
new sureties, justify.
§ 692. The last five sections are applicable, where a ves
sel, or a share or interest therein is attached. If it is neces
sary, to enable the defendant to discharge the attachment,
the court or judge may, by order, stay any proceedings speci
fied in article second of this title, or extend the time to do any
act therein specified.
§ 693. If a warrant of attachment is levied upon the
interest of one or more partners, in goods or chattels of a
partnership, the other partners, who are not defendants in
the action, or any of them, may at any time before final judg
ment, apply to the judge who granted the warrant, or to the
court, upon an affidavit showing the facts, for an order to
discharge the attachment, as to that interest.
§ 694. [Am'd 1877.] Upon such an application, the appli
cant must give an undertaking, with at least two sufficient
sureties, to the effect that they will pay to the sheriff, on de
mand, the amount of any judgment, wnich may be recovered
against the partner who is defendant in the action ; or which
may be recovered against him, in any other action, wherein
the other partners are not defendants, and wherein a war
rant of attachment, or an execution, may come to the sheriff's
hands, at any time before the warrant of attachment, which
was so levied, is vacated or annulled ; not exceeding a sum,
specified in the undertaking, which must not be less than the
value of the interest of the defendant, in the goods or chattels
seized by virtue of the attachment, as fixed Dy the court or
judge. If the value, in the opinion of the court or judge, is
uncertain, the sum shall be such as the court or judge deter
mines.
§ 695. For the purpose of fixing the sum, or determining
the sufficiency of the sureties, the court or judge may receive
affidavits or oral testimony, or may direct a reference.
§ 696. [Arid 1877.] The court or judge may direct, that
the plaintifff have notice of an application for a discharge of
property, as prescribed in this article, or of the hearing under
an order of reference, made as prescribed in the last section ;
and if the applicant does not appear, where notice has been
given^ the application may be dismissed or denied.
§ 697. Where two or more warrants of attachment,
against the same defandant, are delivered to the sheriff of
the same county, to be executed, their respective preferences,
and the rules, where a levy, or a levy and sale, have been
made under a junior warrant, are the same, as where two or
more executions, against the property of the same defendant,
are delivered to the sheriff of the same county, to be exe
cuted.
§ 698. Where a domestic vessel, or a share or interest
therein, has been attached, and afterwards released, as pre
scribed in this title ; or where the personal property of a
partnership, of which the defendant was a member, has been
attached, and the attachment afterwards discharged, upon
the application of another partner, as prescribed in this title ;
another warrant, against the same defendant, shall not be
levied on the same property, by the sheriff of the same or of
any other county, until after the (irst warrant has been
vacated or annulled. But, except as thus prescribed, where a
second warrant, against the same defendant, is delivered to
the same sheriff, he must execute it, by a levy upon property
within his county, and he must thereupon take the same pro
ceedings, as if the levy was made under the first warrant.
§ 701. Where a foreign vessel, or a share or interest
therein, has been attached and valued, as prescribed in article
second of this title, and the plaintifff, in the first warrant of
attachment, fails to give an undertaking to prevent the re
lease thereof, the court or judge may grant to the plaintifff in
a second warrant, then in the sheriffs hands for execution, an
extension, of not more than three days thereafter, within
which to furnish an undertaking, in all respects like the one to
be furnished by the first plaintifff. And if he furnishes it,
within that time, he has the same rights and privileges, and is
subject to the same duties and liabilities, with respect to the
vessel and its proceeds, and the subsequent proceedings re
lating thereto, as if his was the first warrant.
§ 702. If a foreign vessel, or a share or interest therein,
has been attached, and afterwards released, by reason of the
failure of the plaintifff, in the first or the second warrant, to
give an undertaking to prevent the release, it shall not be
again attached, under warrant against the same defendant,
which had been delivered to the sheriff of the same county,
before the expiration of the time within which the underta
king should have been furnished. But it may be again at
tached, under a subsequent warrant against the same defendant ; in which case, the plaintifff therein, and the plaintifff in
each warrant subsequently delivered to the sheriff, have the
same rights, and privileges, and are subject to the same duties
and liabilities, with respect to the vessel and its proceeds, and
the subsequent proceedings relating thereto, as if the warrant,
under which it was attached, was the first warrant.
§ 703. Where the plaintifff in a warrant of attachment
has commenced an action, in the name of himself and the
sheriff jointly, as prescribed in this title, a plaintifff in a junior
warrant may apply to the court or judge, to direct as to the
conduct, discontinuance, or settlement of the same, or to im
pose terms, conditions and regulations as to the continuance
thereof, in the interest of the applicant ; and such order may
be made thereupon, as justice requires. If the first warrant
is vacated, or the attachment thereunder is released or dis
charged, without affecting the cause of action prosecuted by
the plaintifff therein and the sheriff jointly, the plaintifff in the
warrant next in order, may, upon his own application, be sub
stituted as joint plaintifff with the sheriff, by an order, made
as upon an application for leave to bring such an action.
§ 704. A plaintifff in a second warrant may apply to the
court or judge, upon notice to the plaintifff in the first war
rant, and to the sheriff, for leave to bring and maintain, in
the name of himself and the sheriff jointly, any action, which
might be brought in the name of the senior plaintifff and the
sheriff. If it appears that the plaintifff in the first warrant
neglects or refuses to be joined with the sheriff in such an
action, or to comply with the terms, conditions, and regula
tions, imposed, either upon granting him an order for that
purpose, or upon the hearing of an application, made as pre
scribed in this section, the court or judge may grant to the
plaintifff in the second warrant, leave to bring and maintain
such an action, in the name of himself and the sheriff jointly,
with like effect, as if his was the first warrant.
§ 705. Where there are more than two warrants of attach
ment, against the same defendant, the plaintifffs in the third and
each subsequent warrant have, according to their respective
priorities, the same rights and privileges, as against the plaint
iffs in all senior warrants, which the plaintifff in the second
warrant has, as against the plaintifff in the first, and are sub
ject to the same duties and liabilities ; except that a second
extension of the time, within which to furnish an undertaking
to prevent the release of a foreign vessel, or a share or inter
est therein, shall not be granted. And the plaintifffs in two or
more junior warrants of attachment, may, by agreement
amoug themselves, take jointly, and for their common benefit,
any proceeding, permitted by this title to be taken, by the
plaintifff in a second or subsequent warrant of attachment ;
provided that it does not interfere with the preferential or
other right of an intermediate plaintifff.
§ 706. Where a levy, under a warrant of attachment in
an action, has been made, an execution against property, ujxm
a final judgment in favor of the plaintifff therein, recovered
after the expiration of the term of office of the sheriff, who
made the levy, must nevertheless be directed to an * exe
cuted by that sheriff, unless another person is designated by
law to complete the unfinished business pertaining to his office;
or, in that case, to the person so designated.
§ 707. [Arri'd 1877.] Where a defendant, who has not id Week,
appeared, is a non-resident of the State, or a foreign corpor- Dig. 46.
ation, and the summons was served without the State, or by
publication, pursuant to an order obtained for that purpose,
as prescribed in chapter fifth of this act, the judgment can be
enforced only against the property which has been levied
upon, by virtue of the warrant of attachment, at the time
when the judgment is entered. But this section does not de
clare the effect of such a judgment, with respect to the appli
cation of any statute of limitation.
§ 708. [Am'd 1877.] Where an execution against prop
erty is issued upon a judgment for the plaintifff, in an action in
which a warrant of attachment has been levied, the sheriff
must satisfy it, as follows :
1. He must pay over to the plaintifff all money attached by
him, and the proceeds of all salesof perishable property, or of
any vessel or share or interest therein, or animals, sold by
him, or of any debts, or other things in action collected or
sold by him ; or so much thereof as is necessary to satisfy the
judgment.
2. If any balance remains due, he must sell, under the exe
cution, the other personal property attached, or so much
thereof as is necessary ; including rights or shares in the stock
of an association or corporation, or a bond or other instru
ment for the payment of money, executed and issued, with
the interest coupons annexed, if any, by a government, State,
county, public officer, or municipal or other corporation, which
is in terms negotiable, or payable to the bearer or holder, the
principal whereof is not then payable ; but not including any
other debt or thing in action. If the proceeds of that property
are insufficient to satisfy the judgment, and the execution re
quires him to satisfy it out of any other personal property of
the defendant, he must sell the personal property, upon which
he has levied by virtue of the execution. If the proceeds of
the personal property, applicable to the execution, are in
sufficient to satisfy the judgment, the sheriff must sell, under
the execution, all the right, title, and interest, which the
defendant had in the real property attached, at the time
when the notice was filed, or at any time afterwards, before
resorting to any other real property.
3. If personal property attached, belonging to the defend- 9* N- Y- 609ant, has passed out of the hands of the sheriff, without having
has
M•
been sold or converted into money, and the attachment has
' So in original.
not been discharged, as to that property, he must, if practi
cable, regain possession thereof ; and, for that purpose, ne has
all the authority which he had, to seize the same under the
warrant. A person who willfully conceals or withholds such
property from him, is liable to double damages, at the suit of
the party aggrieved.
4. Until the judgment is paid, he may collect the debts and
other things in action attached, and prosecute any underta
king, which he has taken in the course of the proceedings, and
apply the proceeds thereof to the payment of the judgment.
5. At any time after levying the attachment, the court,
upon the petition of the plaintifff, accompanied with an affi
davit, specifying fully all the proceedings of the sheriff, since
the levy under the warrant, the property attached, and the
disposition thereof ; and the affidavit of the sheriff, showing
that he has used diligence, in endeavoring to collect the debts
and other things in action attached, and that a portion there
of remains uncollected ; may direct the sheriff to sell the re
maining portion, upon such terms, and in such manner, as it
thinks proper. Notice of the application must be given to the
defendant's attorney, if the defendant appeared in the action.
If the summons was not personally served on the defendant,
and he did not appear, the court may make such order as to
the service of notice, as it thinks proper ; or may grant the
application without notice.
§ V09. [ArrCd 1877.] Where a warrant of attachment is
vacated, or annulled, or an attachment is discharged, upon
the application of the defendant, the sheriff must, except in a
case where it is otherwise specially prescribed by law, deliver
over to the defendant, or to the person entitled thereto, upon
reasonable demand, and upon payment of all costs, charges,
and expenses, legally chargeable by the sheriff, all the attach
ed personal property remaining in his hands, or that portion
thereof, as to which the attachment is discharged ; or the pro
ceeds thereof, if it has been sold by him.
§ 710. Where the sheriff is required, by this title, to de
liver attached property, or the proceeds thereof, to the de
fendant, he must also deliver to him, unless otherwise specially
directed by the court or judge, all books of account, vouchers,
evidences of debt, muniments of title, or other papers, rela
ting to the property, either real or personal, or to its proceeds;
together with all undertakings, relating thereto, which he has
taken in the course of the proceedings, and which have not
been fully satisfied ; except an undertaking, given by the
defendant, upon the discharge of property. He must also
deliver a written assignment duly acknowledged, of each
undertaking, so delivered, and of each other instrument, to
which the defendant is thus entitled, an assignment of which
is necessary to perfect or protect the defendant's title there
to. The defendant must also, but upon his own application
only, be substituted in the place of the sheriff, or the sheriff
and the plaintifff jointly, in an action brought as prescribed in
this title ; but the court or judge may impose, as a condition
of granting the order of substitution, such terms as justice re
quires, with respect to idemnity and payment of expenses.
The defendant's rights, with respect to property attached and
not disposed of, and an undertaking, or other instrument, to
which he is thus entitled, are the same as those of the sheriff
while the warrant was still in force, except where his rights
are specially defined or regulated by law.
§ 711. [Am'd 1877.] At any time after the warrant of
attachment has been vacated or annulled, or the attachment
has been discharged as to real property attached, the court
may, in its discretion, upon the application of any person
aggrieved, and upon such notice as it deems just, direct,
that any notice, filed for the purpose of attaching the proper
ty, be cancelled of record, by the clerk of the county where it
is filed and recorded. The cancellation must be made by a
note, to that effect, on the margin of the record, referring to
the order ; and, unless the order is entered in the same clerk's
office, a certified copy thereof must, at the same time, be filed
therein.
§ 7 1 2. Where a warrant of attachment has been vacated
or annulled, the sheriff must forthwith file, in the clerk's of
fice, the warrant, with a return of his proceedings thereon.
Upon the application of either party, and proof of the sheriff's
neglect, the court may direct him so to do, forthwith, or with
in a specified time.
§ 713. In addition to the cases, where the appointment of
a receiver is specially provided for by law, a receiver of property, which is the subject of an action, in the supreme court, a
superior city court, or a county court, may be appointed by
the court, in either of the following cases :
1. Before final judgment, on the application of a party who
establishes an apparent right to, or interest in, the property,
where it is in the posssesion of an adverse party, and there is
danger that it will be removed beyond the jurisdiction of the
court, or lost, materially injured, or destroyed.
2. By or after the final judgment, to carry the judgment into
effect, or to dispose of the property, according to its direc
tions.
3. After final judgment, to preserve the property, during
the pendancy of an appeal.
The word, "property," as used in this section, includes the
rents, profits, or other income, and the increase, of real or per
sonal property.
§ 7 14. [Am!d 1877, 1879.] Notice of an application, for the
appointment of a receiver, in an action, before judgment
therein, must be given to the adverse party, unless Be has
failed to appear in the action, and the time limited for his ap
pearance has expired. But where an order has been made,
as prescribed in section four hundred and thirty-eight of this
act, the court may, in its discretion, appoint a temporary re
ceiver, to receive and preserve the property, without notice,
or upon a notice given by publication or otherwise, as it thinks
proper.
§ 715. lAm'd 1877.] A receiver, appointed in an action
or special proceeding, must, before entering upon his duties,
execute and file with the proper clerk, a bond to the people,
with at least two sufficient sureties, in a penalty fixed, by the
court, judge or referee, making the appointment, conditioned
for the faithful discharge of his duties as receiver. And the
court ; or, where the order was made out of court, the judge
making the order, by or pursuant to which the receiver was ap
pointed ; or his successor in office, may, at any time, remove the
receiver, or direct him to give a new bond, with new sureties,
with the like condition. But this section does not apply to a
case, where special provision is made by law, for the security
to be given by a receiver, or for increasing the same, or for
removing a receiver.
§ 716. A receiver, appointed by or pursuant to an order
or a judgment, in an action in the supreme court, a superior
eity court, or a county court, or in a special proceeding for
the voluntary dissolution of a corporation, may take and
hold real property, upon such trusts and for such purposes as
the court directs, subject to the direction of the court, from
time to time, respecting the disposition thereof.
ARTICLE SECOND.
Deposit, Delivery, or Conveyance of Property.
g 717. Court may order a deposit g 718. When sheriffmay take and
or delivery of property in
convey, etc., property,
certain cases.
§ 717. {Amd -1877.] Where it is admitted, by the pleading
or examination of a party, that he has, in his possession or un
der his control, money, or other personal property capable of
delivery, which, being the subject of the action or special pro
ceeding, is held by him as trustee for another party, or which
belongs or is due to another party, the court may, in it discre
tion, grant an order, upon notice, that it be paid into, or de
posited in court, or delivered to that party, with or without
secutity, subject to the further direction of the court.
§ 7 18. Where the court has directed a deposit or delivery,
as prescribed in the last section ; or where a judgment directs
a party to make a deposit or delivery, or to convey real prop
erty ; if the direction is disobeyed, the court, besides punish
ing the disobedience as a contempt, may, by order, require
the sheriff to take, and deposit or deliver the money or other
personal property, or to convey the real property, in confor
mity with the direction of the court.
J 719. Arrest, injunction, and at- J 720. Counterclaim; right to protacliment; when not to
visional remedy in case
be granted together.
of.
§ 719. [Am'd 1S79.] Where an application for an order
of arrest, an injunction, and a warrant of attachment, or two
of them, is made, iu the same action, against the same defend
ant, and it satisfactorily appears that, under the particular
circumstances of the case, two or all of them are not necessary
for the plaintifffs security, the court or judge may, in its or his
discretion, require the plaintifff to elect between them. Where
an application is made, to obtain, vacate, modify, or set aside an order of arrest, injunction order, or warrant of attach
ment, the court or judge must finally decide the same, within
twenty days after it is submitted for decision.
§ 720. [Amid 1879.] Where the defendant interposes a
counterclaim, and thereupon demands an affirmative judg
ment against the plaintifff, his right to a provisional remedy is
the same as in an action brought by him against the plaintifff
for the cause of action stated in the counterclaim, and de
manding the same judgment. And for the purpose of apply
ing to such a case the provisions of this act, the defendant is
deemed the plaintifff, the plaintifff is deemed the defendant,
and the counterclaim so set forth in the answer is deemed the
complaint.
§ 721. [Amid 1879.] In a court of record, where a ver
dict, report, or decision has been rendered, the judgment shall
not be stayed, nor shall any judgment of a court of record be
impaired or affected by reason of either of the following imperfections, omissions, defects, matters, or things, in the process, pleadings, or other proceedings :
1. For want of a summons, or other writ.
2. For any fault or defect in process ; or for misconceiving
a process, or awarding it to a wrong officer.
3. For an imperfect or insufficient return of a sheriff or
other officer ; or because an officer has not subscribed a re
turn, actually made by him.
4. For a variance between the summons and complaint.
5. For a mispleading, insufficient peading * or jeofail.
6. For want of a warrant of attorney by either party.
7. For the appearance by attorney of an infant party, if the
verdict, report, or decision, or the judgment is in his favor.
* So in original.
8. For omitting to allege any matter, without proof of
which the verdict, report, or decision ought not to have been
rendered.
9. For a mistake in the name of a party or other person ; or
in a sum of money ; or in the description of property ; or in
reciting or stating a day, month, or year ; where the correct
name, sum, description, or date has been once rightly stated,
in any of the pleadings or other proceedings.
10. For a mistake in the name of a juror or officer.
11. For an informality in entering judgment, or making up
the judgment-roll.
12. For au omission on the part of a referee to be sworn ; or
for any other default or negligence of the clerk, or any other
officer of the court, or of a party, his attorney or counsel, by
which the adverse party has not been prejudiced.
§ 722. Each of the omissions, imperfections, defects, and
variances, specified in the last section, and any other of like
nature, not being against the right and justice of the matter,
and not altering tie issue between the parties, or the trial,
must, when necessary, be supplied, and the proceeding amen
ded, by the court wherein the judgment is rendered, or by an
appellate court.
§ 723. [Am'd 1877.] The court may, upon the trial, or at
any other stage of the action, before or after judgment, in
furtherance of justice, and on such terms as it deems just,
amend any process, pleading, or other proceeding, by adding
or striking out the name of a person as a party, or by correc
ting a mistake in t he name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect, or by inserting an allegation material to the
case ; or, where the amendment does not change substantially
the claim or defense, by conforming the pleading or other
proceeding to the facts proved. And, in every stage of the
action, the court must disregard an error or defect, in the
pleadings or other proceedings, which does not affect the
substantial rights of the adverse party.
50 N.Y. Super. (Ct.J. & S.)301; 34Hun.4:il; 38 Id. 528 ; 107 N. Y. 645;
4N.Y.Supp. 804; 121 N. Y. 546: 122 Id. 461.
§ 724. The court may likewise, in its discretion, and upon
such terms as justice requires, at any time within one year
after notice thereof, relieve a party from a judgment, order,
or other proceeding, takeE against him through his mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect ; and may supply
an omission in any proceeding. Where a proceeding, taken
by a party, fails to conform to a provision of this act, the
court may, in like manner, and upon like terms, permit an
amendment thereof, to conform it to the provision.
17 Week. Dig. 354; 18 Id. 510; 14 Abb. N. C. 90; Id. 510; 35 Hun,
162; 3 N. Y. Supp. 120; 6 Id. 58'. ; 28 N. Y. State Rep. 474 ; 112 N. Y.
325 ; 119 Id. 414.
§ 725. A court, to which a return is made by a sheriff or
other officer, or by a subordinate court or other tribunal, may,
in its discretion, direct the return to be amended, in matter
of form., either before or after judgment.
§ 726. Where an original pleading or paper is lost, or
withheld by any person, the court may authorize a copy to be
filed and used, instead of the original.
§ 727. A process, pleading, or record, shall not be altered,
by the clerk or any other officer of the court, or by any other person, "wirana: ijii dzresraaj a: tnt- warn c~ o:
rf :wrra]*exsn: aumarrn -.zxceii" n. i. csa* *«erf i. mm
re in* u2xa?3b?5 t SMersalir jMiLBanseL r»~ iav t* «bnk &
lu&admr
§ 72B. lb>«nca LUk.. ar*aeree: «. ta* tit* a'k
iffisi-rai- di»fe iin imwr u i c n»i*ia«rn>r tcme-U' ok ju»ka. ur stiecw. iritrgaimg, k wntct. c t- hul
$' V3Q. _s. t*t<ii[ n-mia^-i3iEinc tow «". rr- fiaast- t. «r
grres> ~vy t. itCTW. iiiuuiu Bur xr t. tejb: <r Trnvitesn <r ti
rat? £ Ttmcwdmr s-arfceran iJ r oonmrm> sinK-anu^];; ».
tie iarrn mer-eior iwes^. iwec rr- Hit sxmn. anr ««r=- is
vary ■Eberefrfm. "w in? Tr-fTudfee of tar Ttpii& of xat jur(y.
a> irinm. or inr -w-nose Bfateii: r 5 r^--a.
§ 730. "Where sod & J«m£ or nncienaikm!: »f- iji mum t. ^.k.^
the end nffiner or buoy, line ~wnuic br aninann*. t> re
ceive tL nr 70 em«rmn. twiwrfdnca rae<wnusn.~; iht~r.i.'
if a -wat Tieriecx. ttarr nat aTniiiriaint o: i» neTsms- vnx
ex*««n#d a. amend & artcnTTlmr'y : anc E shut taereunox. be
vakkd. frcs& xhe unat of iff -executaooi.

Trader, amd n&er ifptrrr ou 'wimm *> 'nW «uJw-» wr^j
TEL. Tender after mh.
I TvTt lami'- o'T^ftwa n offer
73L Asnftam it » naic imt>
73fc- I«etendantV nfte- u n»
eours.
•mxmiitm : pTwejwdipyy
7^3. Ssbc: of gnificHtTK irnidftr731, Tin -tr r* oftrinsxeQ iram
73b- Plaintiff* oinr- xr wmiii'^
r*tftnFHrx. eic
m»t snunwTruami . av*735. Beqmrinr arnnwNim nf
pwdnic uifima..
ecmninenew oluun.
Tafi. Ofter anc K*^>nam, ty
736. OiferTe IjqrodsK-'dainagttwtunc smrjwrihpx.
eandrocin&ior.
g 731. "Wberp tiie canpliiim imiuiiy luoTTnent f.ir &
sum of rooBex c*r^T : ^nd "Uit- fc^xi.ir. is br.^upin ~u- Ttw^^r i
sum <>erLSLLii. c»r "sriijefc may "bif- T*eduoed t..' oerLamtr ry ^t.culatioo : or to reoc<rer durnhgref- f fir & cssu&i or miMiuiitairT
persona] injurr. or a like mjurr to property ; ti>e otCfui.^utiu
or his attorney, may. at any tine nef ore tie tnal tono«r to
the plaintifff, or hi= attorney, such a sum of mosey, a* be oitdceives to be sufficient to make amends for tie ltiury. or to
pay the plaintifffs demand: to^etber vnh the costs of tjw
action, to that tune.
§ 732. [Am'd 1ST7.] A tender, made as prcsn-TSM ic tbe
last section, does not avail the defendant, unless the trKincy
is accepted, or is paid into court and notice thereof in *r:;5j
served upon the plaintifff's attomev before the trial and t> :;hin ten days after the tender. If tbe plaintifff takes out the
amount paid in, he accepts the tender.
§ 733. If it appears, upon the trial, that the sum so ten
dered was sufficient to pay the plaintifff's demand, or to make
amends for the injury, and also to pay the costs of the act umi,
to the time of the tender, the plaintifff cannot recover costs or
interest, from the time of the tender, but must pay the de
fendant's costs from that tune.
§ 734. If the plaintifff proceeds in the action, after accept
ing the tender, the sum accepted must be deducted from the
recovery, and judgment rendered for the residue, if luiy ;
and if the tender aud acceptance do not appear in the pleadings, a memorandum thereof must be annexed to the judg
ment-roll. The plaintifff's right to recover costs, and his lia
bility to pay costs to the defendant, are determined by the
amount of the residue.
§ 735. The attorney for a party may, at any time before
the trial, exhibit to the attorney for the adverse party, a
paper, material to the action, and request a written admis
sion of its genuineness. If the admission is not given, within
four days after the request, and the paper is proved or ad
mitted on the trial, the expenses incurred by the party ex
hibiting it, in order to prove its genuineness, must be ascer
tained at the trial, and paid by the party refusing the
admission ; unless it appears to the satisfaction of the court,
that there was a good reason for the refusal.
§ 736. In an action to recover damages for breach of a
contract, the defendant's attorney may, with the answer,
serve upon the plaintifff's attorney, a written offer, that, if
the defendant fails in his defense, the damages may be as
sessed at a specified sum. If the plaintifff serves notice, that
he accepts the offer, with or before the notice of trial, and
damages are awarded to him on the trial, they must be
assessed accordingly.
§ 737. [4m« 1877.] If the plaintifff does not accept the
offer, he can not prove it, upon the trial. But if the damages,
awarded to him, do not exceed the sum offered, the defend
ant is entitled to recover the expenses, necessarily incurred
by him in preparing for the trial of the question of damages.
The expenses must be ascertained and the amount thereof
determined, by the judge, or the referee, by or before whom
the cause is tried.
48 N. Y.Sup§ 738. [ArrCd 1877.] The defendant may, before the trial,
«r. Ct. (3 & serve upon the plaintifff's attorney, a written offer, to allow
8.) 449.
judgment to be taken against him, for a sum, or property, or
3 Cir. Pro. to the effect, therein specified, with costs. If there are two
r2m th t or more defendants, and the action can be severed, a like
BulSt
offer may be made by one or more defendants, against whom
17 Ahb. N. a separate judgment may be taken. If the plaintifff, within
C. 103; 20 Id! ten days thereafter, serves upon the defendant's attorney, a
321.
written notice that he accepts the offer, he may file the sum49 Hun,29. mons, complaint, and offer, with proof of acceptance, and
24N.Y.8tate thereupon the clerk must enter judgment accordingly. If
kfte
notice of acceptance is not thus given, the offer cannot be
121 NY. 644. given in evidence upon the trial ; but, if the plaintifff fails to
obtain a more favorable judgment, he cannot recover costs
from the time of the offer, but must pay costs from that
time.
§ 739. [AnCd 1877.] Where the defendant sets up a coun
terclaim, to an amount greater than the plaintifff's claim, or
sufficient to reduce the plaintifff's recovery below fifty dollars,
the plaintifff may serve, upon the defendant's attorney, a
written offer, to allow judgment to be taken against him, for
a specified sum, with costs, or against the defendant for a
specified sum, and against the plaintifff for costs. If the de
fendant, within ten days thereafter, serves, upon the plaintifff's
attorney, notice that he accepts the offer, either party may
file the summons, complaint, answer, and offer, or copies
thereof and proof of acceptance; and thereupon the clerk
must enter judgment accordingly. If notice of acceptance is not thus given, the offer cannot be given Jn evidence, upon
the trial ; but, if the recovery is not more favorable to the
defendant than that so offered he will not be entitled to re
cover costs from the time of the offer, but must pay cosU
from that time.
§ 740. Unless an offer or an acceptance, made as pre
scribed in either of the last four sections, is subscribed by the
party making it, his attorney must subscribe it, and annex
thereto his affidavit, to the effect that he is duly authorized to
make it, in behalf of the party.
Payment of money into court, and care and disposition
thereof.
§ 743. A party bringing money into court, pursuant to
the direction of the court, is discharged thereby from all
further liability, to the extent of the money so paid in.
§ 744. The general rules of practice may contain regula
tions, concerning the payment of money into court, in an
action, and the care and disposition thereof, which shall govern,
where provision is not otherwise made by law.
§ 745. Unless the court otherwise specially directs, money, » iosb conpaid into court, must be paid, either directly, or by the officer sol. Act.
who is required by law first to receive it, to the county treas
urer of the county, where the action is triable. Where it is
paid to an officer, other than the county treasurer, he must
pay it to the county treasurer, within four days after he re
ceives it. In the city of New York, he must pay it to the
chamberlain, within two days after he receives it. A bond,
mortgage, or other security, or a certificate or transfer of
stock, taken upon the investment of money paid into ourt,
must be taken to the county treasurer of the county where
the fund belongs, in his name of office ; or to such other county
treasurer, as the court specially directs. But this and he
next section do not prevent the court, upon the application of
a party to an action, from directing in what manner or place,
money, paid into court in the action, shall be deposited or in
vested.
$ 746. Provision may be made, in the general rules of
practice, for the deposit, in a bank or trust company, of money
paid iuto court ; for the investments thereof in the public debt of the United States, or of a State, or for loaning it upon ap
proved interest-bearing mortgages upon real property ; and
for the transferring or disposing, from time to time, of the
money, or any investment, or security. But the money must
be deposited or loaned in the county where the fund belongs,
where that can be done conveniently and safely, and with
advantage to the parties interested.
§ 747. The supreme court may direct that money, paid
U 1161, 1265,
Cousol.Act. into that court, in an action brought therein, or a bond, mort
gage, or other security, or public stock, in the possession or
under the control of a county treasurer, which represents
money so paid in, be transferred and delivered to a general
or special guardian, committee, or other trustee, upon his giv
ing, or if he has given security, satisfactory to the court, for
the faithful execution of his trust ; or that a bond, mortgage,
or other security, or public stock, be taken by and in the name
of the guardian, committee, or other trustee ; and be collect
ed, invested, or loaned, as the court directs, or as prescribed
in the general rules of practice.
g? llfl, 1265,
§ 748. Each superior city court, each county court, and
Oonaol. Act. the marine court of the city of New York, possesses, with respect to money, paid into that court, in an action brought
therein, or a bond, mortgage or other security, or public stock,
in or upon which it has been invested or loaned, the power
and authority conferred upon the supreme court, by the last
sectfon.
§ 74©. [Am'dWFt.] A county treasurer, or other officer,
or a guardian, committee, or other trustee, in whose name is
taken a bond, mortgage, or other security, or public stock,
representing money, paid into court, in an action ; or to whom
stock or a security, or an account, deed, voucher, receipt, or
other paper, representing or relating to such money, is trans
ferred^ delivered, made, or given, pursuant to law, is vested
with title for the purposes of the trust : and may bring an
action upon or in relation to the same, in his official or repre
sentative character.
§ 750. On the expiration of the official term of a county
treasurer, or where a vacancy occurs in his office, by death or
otherwise, all public stock, bonds, mortgages; and other se
curities, held by him, as prescribed in this title, vest in his
successor in office ; and all money deposited, as prescribed in
this title, in a bank, trust company or other depository, to
his credit, vests in, and must be carried to, the account of his
successor in office.
§ 75 1 . Money, paid into court, in an action, and deposited
in a bank or trust company, to the credit of a county treasurer,
shall not be paid out without the production of a certified copy
of an order of the court, for that purpose, countersigned by
the judge, by whose direction it is made.
§ 752. The accounts of a county treasurer, with respect
to money received by him, as prescribed in this title, with
each bank or trust company, in which it is deposited, must be
kept, so as to show, in the cash-books of the bank or company,
and in the books of the county treasurer, in what particular
action, or on what account, each item of money credited or
charged, was deposited or paid out.
§ 753. [Am'd 1877.] A county treasurer, who has, in his possession or tinder his control, money, bonds, mortgages, or other
securities, or public stock, as prescribed in this title, must, ouce in each
year, at the time prescribed by special order, or by the general rules
of practice, make a report to the court, into which the money was
paid, containing a statement of his accounts for the preceding year,
or since the last account was rendered, and of the funds and securi
ties under his control, relating to the money paid into that court. The
statement must show, as to eacn action separately, the amount on hand
uninvested; the time when each Bum of money was received; the
time, amount, and other description of each payment, investment,
or loan ; the amount deposited in each bank or trust company ; and
the balance on deposit therein; and also all publicstock, bonds, mort*
gages, and other securities, representing the remainder of the fund.
The statement must be accompanied with a certificate of the proper
officer of each bank or trust company, in which a deposit is made, to
the effect, that the total amount, stated to be remaining on deposit, is
actually in that bank or company, placed to the credit of the county
treasurer, in the action, and not mingled with any other account. If.
ihe court, at anytime, deems the security given by the county treas
urer insufficient to protect the funds and securities in his hands, and
under his control, it must make an order directing him to make the
security satisfactory to the court.
§ 764. Each provision of this title, relating to a county
treasurer, applies to the chamberlain of the city of New York, with
respect to money paid into court, in an action triable in the city and
county of New York, or with respect to money, or a bond, mortgage,
or other security, or public stock, representing money paid into
court; except where special provision, with respect to tn» same, is
otherwise made by law.
761. When court may order ac§ 755. [Arri'd 1891, amendment to take effect September 1,
1891.] An action does not abate by any event, if the cause of action
survives or continues. A special proceeding does not abate by any
event, if the right to the relief sought in such special proceeding sur
vives or continues, but this provision as to a special proceeding applies
only to cases where a party dies after this act takes effect.
§ 756. In case of a transfer of interest or devolution of
liability, the action maybe continued, by or against the original party; unless the court directs the person, to whom the interest is transferred, or upon whom the liability is devolved, to be substituted in
the action, or joined with the original party, as the case requires.
i Civ. Pro. 76; 94 N. Y. 519; 23 Week. Big. 193; 1 How. Pr. N. S. 508; 43
Han, 328.
§ 757. [Am?d 1877, 1879, 1891. amendment to take effect
September 1,1891.] In case of the death, of a sole plaintifff or a sole
defendant, if the cause of action survives or continues, the court
must, upon a motion, allow or compel the action to be continued, by or
against his representative or successor in interest. In case of the
death of a sole party to a special proceeding after this act takes effect,
if the right to the relief sought in such proceeding survives or continues, the court must, upon a motion, allow or compel such proceeding to be continued by or against his representative, or successorin interest This provision as to a special proceeding does not apa hjt qox>
|0j A*ct

3 Dem. 236.
H5N.Y. 493.

17 weeu
jjtK oga"
9 Dem 4*89
iu \yeek "
^j„ 119'
§ 758. [Am>d 1877.] In case of the death of one of two or
more plaintifffs, or one of two or more defendants, if the entire
cause °' action survives to or against the others, the action
mav proceed in favor of or against the survivors. But the estate of a person or party jointly liable, upon contract, with
others, shall not be discharged by his death ; and the court
may make an order to bring in the proper representative of
the decedent, when it is necessary so to do, for the proper disposition of the matter ; and where the liability is several as
well as joint, may order a severance of the action so that it
may proceed separately against the representative of the de
cedent, and against the surviving defendant or defendants.
23 Abb. N.
8 759. In case of the death of one of two or more plainC. 290.
tiffs, or one of two or more defendants, if part only of the
cause of action, or part or some of two or more distinct causes
of action, survives to or against the others, the action may
proceed, without bringing in the successor to the rights or lia
bilities of the deceased party ; and the judgment shall not af
fect him, or his interest in the subject of the action. But
where it appears proper so to do, the court may require or *
to compel the successor, or a person who claims to be the suc
cessor, to be brought in as a party, upon his own application
or upon the application of a party to the action.
§ 760. [Am'd 1879.] In a case specified in the foregoing
2JAbb. N.o. sections of this title, where such a person applies in his own
behalf, the court may direct that he be made a party, by
amendment of the pleadings, or otherwise, as the case re
quires. Where an application is made by the plaintifff, to
bring in such a person as defendant, the court may direct that
a supplemental summons issue, and that supplemental plead
ings be made. Where an application is made by a defendant,
to bring in such a person, the court may, and where the pro
tection of the applicant's rights requires it, must permit the
defendant to commence a cross action for that purpose. The
cross action must be brought in the same court, unless the order
otherwise specially directs. If it directs that the action be
commenced in another court, the latter court may, by order,
at any time after the cross action is commenced, remove to it
self the original action, with like effect, as if it had been
brought therein. Unless the court otherwise directs, the orig
inal action and the cross action must be tried, and judgment
rendered therein, as if they were one action.
§ 761. [Am'd 1877. At any time after the death of the
plaintifff, or after the marriage of the plaintifff, where it affects
the rights of either party, the court m»iy, in its discretion,
upon notice to such persons as it directs, and upon the appli
cation of the adverse party, or of a person whose interest is
affected, direct that the action abate, unless it is continued
by the proper parties, within a time specified iu the order,
not less than six months, nor more than one year, after the
granting thereof.
§ 762 The foregoing provisions of this title do not apply
to a case where special provision is otherwise made by law.
♦So in originnl.
§ 763. If either party to an action dies, after an accepted
offer to allow judgment to be taken, or after a verdict, report, or decision, or an interlocutory judgment, but before
final judgment is entered, the court must enter final judg
ment, in the names of the original parties ; unless the offer,
verdict, report, or decision, or the interlocutory judgment, is
set aside.
§ 764. [AtrCd 1881, 1890.] After verdict, report or decision in an action to recover damages for a personal injury,
the action does not abate by the death of a party, but the
subsequent proceedings are the same as in a case where the
cause of action survives. And in case said verdict, report or
decision is reversed upon questions of law only, said action
does not abate by the death of the party against whom the
same was rendered.
§ 765. This title does not authorize the entry of a judgment against a party, who dies before a verdict, report, or
decision is actually rendered against him. In that case the
verdict, report, or decision is absolutely void.
§ 766. Where an action or special proceeding is authorized
or directed by law, to be brought by or in the name of a pubhe officer, or by a receiver, or other trustee, appointed by
virtue of a statute, his death or removal does not abate the
action or special proceeding ; but the same may be continued
by his successor, who must, upon his application, or that of a
party interested, be substituted for that purpose, by the order
of the court, a copy of which must be annexed to the judg
ment-roll.
§ 767. A direction of a court or judge, made, as pre
scribed in this act, in an action or special proceeding, must be
in writing, unless otherwise specified in the particular case.
Such a direction, unless it is contained in a judgment, is an
order.
§ 768. An application for an order is a motion.
§ 769. [Am'd 1879.] A motion, upon notice, in an action
in the supreme court, must be made within the judicial district, in which the action is triable, or in a county adjoining
that in which it is triable ; except that where it is triable in
the first judicial district, the motion must be made in that district ; and a motion, upon notice, cannot be made in that
district, in ap action triable elsewhere. But this section does
not apply to a case, where it is specially prescribed by law,
that a motion may be made in the county, where the appli
cant, or other person to be affected thereby, or the attorney
resides.
§ 770. In the first judicial district, a motion which else9 Daly, 44. where must be made in court, may be made to a judge out of
26 Hun, 542. court, except for a new trial on the merits.
§771. Where notice of a motion is given, or an order to
show cause is returnable, before a judge, out of court, who,
at the time fixed for the motion, is or will be absent, or un
able, for any other cause, to hear it, the motion may be trans
ferred, by his order, made before or at that time, or by the
written stipulation of the attorneys for the parties, to another
judge before whom it might have been originally made.
13 Hun, 579;
§ 772. [ArrVd 1877. Where an order, in an action, may
25 Id. 254. be made by a judge of the court, out of court, and without
5 Month. L. notice, and the particular judge is not specially designated by
?"h 88' 20 'aw( may ^e ma<^e Dv anv Ju<*ge °f the court, in any part
13 Abb N °^
State ; or, except to stay proceedings after verdict,
' '. 374.
report, or decision, by a justice of the supreme court, or by a
48 Hun, 76. judge of a superior city court within the city wherein his
court is located, or by the county judge of the county where
the action is triable, or in which the attorney for the ap
plicant resides. Where such an order grants a provisional
remedy, it can be vacated only in the mode specially pre
scribed by law in any other case, it may be vacated or
modified, without notice, by the judge who made it, or, upon
notice, by him, or by the court.
§ 773. The limitation, contained in the last section, of the
county judges, who may make an order, does not apply to a
case where it is prescribed in this act, in general words, that
a particular order may be made by a county judge, or by any
county judge.
§ 774. [Am'd 1877.] An order, made by a judge of a
court other than the court in which the action is pending, may
be reviewed in the same manner, as if it was made by a judge
of the court, in which the action is pending.
27 Hun, 21.
§ 775, Am'd 1377.] An order to stay proceedings in an
2 Civ. Pro. action, for a longer time than twenty days, shall not be made
**°by a judge, out of court, except to stay proceedings under an
order or judgment appealed from, or where it is made upon
notice of the application to the adverse party, or in cases
where special provision is otherwise made by law.
§ 776. If an application for an order, made to a judge of
the court, or to a county judge, is wholly or partly refused,
or granted conditionally, or on terms ; a subsequent applica
tion, m reference to the same matter, and m the same stage of
the proceedings, shall Oe made only to the same judge, or to the
court. If it is made to another judge, out of court, an order
granted thereupon must be vacated by the .judge who made
it , or, if he is absent, or otherwise unable to hear the appli
cation, by any judge of the court, upon proof, by affidavit, of
the facts.
8 777 Where an application is made to the court for
judgment, it cannot be withdrawn, without the express per
mission of the court ; and a subsequent application for judg
ment shall not be made, at a term held by another judge, ex
cept where the first application is so withdrawn ; or where
the directions, given thereupon, require an act to be done,
before judgment can be rendered ; or where the fact of the
former application is stated, and the proceedings thereupon, and subsequent thereto, are fully set forth, in the papers upon
which the application is made.
§ 778. A person making an application, forbidden by the
last two sections, with knowledge of the previous application,
shall be punished by the court, for a contempt
§ 779. {Ani'd 1877, 1879, 1883, 1884.1 Where costs of a
motion, or any other sum of money, directed by an order to
be paid, are not paid within the time fixed for that purpose
by the order, or if no time is so fixed, within ten days after
the service of a copy of the order, an execution against the
personal property only of the party required to pay the
same, may be issued by any party or person to whom the
said costs or sum of money is made payable by said order, or
in case permission of the court shall be first obtained by any
party or person having an interest in compelling payment
thereof, wnich execution shall be in the same form, as nearly
as may be, as an execution upon a judgment, omitting the recitals and directions relating to real property ; and all proceedings on the part of the party required to pay the same,
except to review or vacate the order, are stayed without further direction of the court, until the payment thereof. But
the adverseparty may, at his election, waive the stay of proceedings. Where the order directs that the cost of a motion
abide the advent of the action, or where costs of a motion,
awarded by an order, have not been collected when final
judgment is entered, they may be taxed as part of the costs
of the action or set off against costs awarded to the adverse
party, as the case requires. But nothing herein contained
shall be so construed as to relieve a party or person from
punishment as for contempt of court for disobediance to an
order in any case when the remedy of enforcement by such
proceedings now exist.
§ 780. lAm'd 1890.] Where special provision is not otherwise made by law, or by the general rules of practice, if notice
of a motion, or of any other proceeding in an action, before a
court or a judge, is necessary, it must, if personally served,
be served at least eight days before the time appointed for
the hearing ; unless the court or a judge thereof, or a county
judge of the county where the action is triable, or in which
the attorney for the applicant resides, upon an affidavit showing grounds therefore, makes an order to show cause why the
application should not be granted ; and, in the order, directs
that service thereof, less than eight days before it is return
able, be sufficient.
§ *78 1 . Where the time, within which a proceeding in an
action after its commencement, must be taken, has begun to
run, and has not expired, it may be enlarged, upon an affidavit
showing grounds therefore, by the court, or by a judge author
ized to make an order in the action.
J 782 In a case specified in the last two sections, the
davit, upon which the order was granted, or a copy there
of must be served with a copy of the order ; otherwise, the
order may be disregarded.
§ 783. After the expiration of the time, within which a
pleading must be made, or any other proceeding in an action,
after its commencement, must be taken, the court, upon good
cause shown, may, in its discretion, and upon such terms as
justice requires, relieve the party from the consequences of
an omission to do the act, and allow it to be done ; except as
otherwise specially prescribed by law.
6N.Y.Supp. 581.
§ 784. A court, or a judge, is not authorized to extend the
time, fixed by law, within which to commence an action : or
to take an appeal ; or to apply to continue an action where a
party thereto has died, or has incurred a disability or Jie
time fixed by the court, within which a supplemental com
plaint must be made, in order to continue an action ; or an
action is to abate, unless it is continued by the proper parties.
A court, or a judge, cannot allow either of those acts to be
done, after the expiration of the time fixed by law, or by the
order, as the case may be, for doing it ; except in a case
specified in the next section.
§ 785. lAm'd 1877.] Where a party entitled to appeal
from a judgjnent or order, or to move to set aside a final
judgment lor error in fact, dies either before or after this
chapter takes effect, and before the expiration of the time
within which the appeal may be taken, or the motion made, the
court may allow the appeal to be taken, or the motion to be
made, by the heir, devisee, or personal representative of the
decedent, at any time within four months after his death.
§ 786. Where an action is brought for the collective bene
fit of the creditors of a person, or of an estate, or for the
benefit of a person or persons, other than the plaintifff, who
will come in and contribute to the expense of the action,
notice of a direction of the court, contained in a judgment or
order, requiring the creditors, or other person or persons to
exhibit their demands, or otherwise to come in, must be pub
lished, once in each week, for at least three successive weeks,
and as much longer as the court directs, in the newspaper,
published at Albany, in which legal notices are required to be
fiublished, and in a newspaper, published in the county where
he act is required to be done.*
§ 787. The period of publication of a legal notice, in an
action or special proceeding, brought in a court, either of
record or not of record, or before a Judge of such a court,
must be computed, so as to exclude the first day of publica• See Ij. 1884, c. 133, repealing all acts providing for a Stale paper. tion, and include the day. on which the act or event, of which
notice is given, is to happen, or which completes t he full period
of publication.
§ 788. [Am'd 1877.] The time within which an act. in an 93 N. T. M.
action or special proceeding, brought, as specified in the last 4* Horn, lit
section, is required by law to be done, must be computed, by l* °"T- ^>r',■
excluding the first, and including the last dav : except where J* - . . it is otherwise specially prescribed by law. If the last day is !? .>\
Sunday or a public holiday, it must be excluded. Where the
act is required to be done within two days, and an interven
ing day is Sunday, or a public holiday," it must also be ex
cluded.
§ 789. A trial, amotion, appeal, or hearing, in an action by
the people to recovermoney, funds, credits, or other property,
held or owned by the State, or held or owned, officially or
otherwise for, or m Dehalf of, a public or governmental in
terest, by a municipal or other public corporation, or by a
board, officer, custodian, agency or agent of the State, or of a
city, county, townj village, or other division, subdivision, de
partment, or portion of the State, which the defendant has,
without right, obtained, received, converted, or disposed of ;
or to recover damages, or other compensation, for so obtain
ing, receiving, paying, converting, or disposing of the same ;
or the aiding or abetting thereof ; is entitled, on the applica
tion of the Attorney-General, to a preference over any other
business, at a term or sitting of any court of the State, irre
spective of its place upon the calendar.
§ 790. A criminal action, including an appeal or other
proceeding in a criminal cause, is entitled, under the direction
of the court, to preference in the trial or hearing thereof, over
all civil actions and special proceedings, except as prescribed
in the last section.
§ 791. [Am'd 1877, 1879, 18Sa, 1883, 1881, 1887.] Civil causes "Km
are entitled to preference among themselves, in the trial or is Week.
hearing thereof, in the following order, next after the causes Dig. 113.
specified in the last section but one :
91 NY- XS9.
67 How. Pr. 510.
1. An action or special proceeding brought by or against 92 N. Y. 647.
the people of the State, or by or against any State officer or
board of State officers as such, and in winch the people or
such officer or board, appear by the Attorney-General ; where
the Attorney-General has given notice, at the time of service
or notice of trial or argument, of a particular day in the
term on which he will move it. If the action or special pro
ceeding is not moved by him for trial or argument on that
day, or as soon thereafter in the same term as the court can
hear it, the other party may then move the trial or argument;
otherwise it shall not be moved out of its order at that term,
except by the special order of the court.
2. An action or special proceeding in which the mayor, ald
ermen and commonalty of the city of New York, or a board of officers, exercising powers conferred by a statute for the
protection of public health, of public or private property, or
for the prevention or punishment of violations of a statute re
lating to either of those subjects, or the commissioners of
pilots in the city of New York, are parties ; where a notice
similar to the notice prescribed in the last subdivision, has
been served by their attorney at the time of service of the
notice of trial or argument. The provisions of the last sub
division, relating to moving the trial or argument, apply to a
cause within this subdivision.
3. In the court of appeals or the supreme court, an appeal
taken by either party, in an action or special proceeding,
other than as specified in subdivision first of this section,
where the people of the State, or a board of State officers are
sole parties, or a State officer is sole party, plaintifff or defend
ant.
4. In the court of appeals, an action, a party to which has
died, pending the action, where the pendency of the action
prevents a final settlement of the estate of the deceased
party.
5. In any court, an action or special proceeding in which an
executor, or an administrator, or an infant, or a receiver ap
pointed by the court, or general assignee for the benefit of
creditors, is the sole plaintifff or sole defendant ; an action or
special proceeding for the construction ol; or an adjudication
upon a will, in which the administrator, with the will annexed,
or the executor of the will is joined, as plaintifff or defendant,
with one or more other parties, and in the court of appeals or
the supreme court, an appeal from the decree or decision of a
surrogate's court, determining a will to be valid and admit
ting it to probate, or determining an instrument offered for
probate as a will to be invalid or not entitled to probate as
such, or granting general letters of administration or direct
ing the distribution of a fund or payment of money by an
executor or an administrator in pursuance of an order or de
cree made on an intermediate, final or judicial accounting or
otherwise by an administrator or an executor.
6. An action for dower, where the plaintifff makes proof, by
affidavit, to the satisfaction of the court, or a judge thereof,
that she has no sufficient means of support, aside from the
estate in controversy.
7. An action against a corporation or joint-stock association,
issuing bank notes or any kind of paper credits to circulate as
money, or by or against the receiver of such corporation or
association. An action in which a county or town is sole plain
tiff or defendant.
"" '^■n ac^'on against a corporation founded upon a note or
other evidence of debt, for the absolute payment of money.
An action upon an undertaking given upon an appeal to the
court of appeals or to stay the execution on an appeal to the
court of appeals.
9. An action against a sheriff, in his official capacity, or an
action by a sheriff or late sheriff, to recover for a breach of
the obligation of a bond or bonds, or an instrument or instru
ments of indemnity, or an undertaking or undertakings given
to him in his official capacity.
10. A cause
to preference
bycourt
the general
rules ol
prance,
or byentitled
the special
order of the
in the particular
case. Where an issue of law and an issue of fact, or two or
more other questions of different natures, come before the
same term ol the court for trial or hearing, the preference
given by this section affects only the order in which the issues
or questions of the same nature are to be disposed of.
§ 792. Where a writ of mandamus or of prohibition has
l>ccn issued, from the general term, to a special term, or a
judge of the same court, $he cause may, in the discretion of
the court, or, where an appeal is taken therein to the court
of appeals, in the discretion of that court, be preferred over
any of the causes specified in the last section.
§ 793. [Am'd 1879, 1888.] No action or special proceeding shall be placed as a preferred cause upon the calendar of
any circuit court or trial term or special term of any court,
but the party desiring a preference of any cause shall serve
upon the opposite party, with his notice of trial, a notice that
an application will be made to the court, at the opening there
of, for leave to move the same as a preferred cause ; and if
the right to a preference depends upon facts which do not ap
pear in the pleadings or other papers upon which the cause is
to be tried, the notice must be accompanied by an affidavit
showing such facts. The application for a preference shall be
made at the opening of the court, and if it shall appear that
the cause is entitled to a preference and is intended to be
moved for trial at the term at which the application is made,
the court may direct that it shall be so heard. Where the
right to a preference, in an appellate court, depends upon
facts which do not appear in the pleadings or other papers
upon which the cause is to be heard, the party desiring a
preference must procure an order therefore from the court or
a judge thereof upon notice to the adverse party. A copy of
the order must be served with or before the notice of argu
ment. Such an order is not appealable ; but it may be vacated
by the judge or judges holding the term at which the pre
ferred cause is noticed for hearing. But a preliminary order
is not requisite; in an appellate court, in a case embraced
within subdivision first or second of section seven hundred
and ninety-one ; and the order in a case embraced within sub
division six of that section may be made ex parte, in the ap
pellate court, and is conclusive.
§ 794. [Am'd 1888, 1889.] When any action or special
proceeding, placed upon the calendar of a term of a court of
record, held in the city and county of New York, is regularly
called and passed, or is put over the term by stipulation,
without a postponement by the court, for good cause shown, it
must thenceforth be placed on the same or a future calendar
as if the date of the issue was the time when it was thus
passed ; and any cause which shall be thus passed or put over
the term, after it has been advanced as a preferred cause,
shall lose its right to a preference.
§ 795. In a case specified in the last section, the party
placing the cause upon the calendar, for a subsequent term,
must state, in the note of issue, the date of the issue, as pre
scribed in that section. If he omits to do so, by reason where
of the cause retains its priority on the calendar, the court, on
the application of the adverse party, or of its own motion,
may strike the cause from the calendar.
ARTICLE THIRD.
Service of Papers.
796. Paper mav be served per\ 797. Other modes of service.
sonally. Style and weight •
798. Double time when served
of paper regulated.
through the post-office.
799. When paper to be served
on attorney ; when ser
vice not required.
When service may be made
on clerk for non-resident.
I 801. 8ervice through branch
post-office in New York
city.
802. This arti
not applicable
to service of summons,
. etc.
§ 796. [An/I'd 1888.] A notice or other paper in an action
may be served on a party or an attorney either by delivering
it to him personally or in the manner prescribed in the next
section. All papers so served or required to be filed in an
action, shall be plainly and legibly written or printed in black
ink upon durable paper of good material, and, if imprinted by
typewriter, such paper shall be of linen quality equal in
weight to sixteen pounds to the double cap ream, of seven
teen by twenty-eight inches in size, and service of filing of
papers printed or written upon such paper with such ink shall
be deemed a compliance with the terms of this section. The
transcribed minutes of a stenographer taken in any civil or
criminal action, or in any hearing or special proceeding, civil
or criminal, shall be written or typewritten on paper of the
size hereinafter specified ; and all cases, briefs, points or
other papers required or used on an appeal from any judg
ment, determination or order of any court or board shall be
printed (when required to be printed by the rules of any
court) on paper of a uniform size, as follows : The paper
must be ten and one half inches by eight inches, and bound on
the edge of the greatest length.
2 Abb. N. C
§ 797. [Am'd 1879.] Where the service is not personal, it
454 ; 21 Id. may be made as follows :
214.'
1. Upon a party or an attorney, through the post-office, by
ir.N.Y.Rtate depositing the paper, properly enclosed in a post-paid wrapIt' p. 818.
per, in the post-office of the party or the attorney serving it,
directed to the person to be served, at the address, within
the State, designated by him for that purpose, upon the pre
ceding papers in the action ; or, where he has not made such
a designation, at his place of residence, or the place where he
keeps an office, according to the best information which can
conveniently be obtained concerning the same.
2. Upon an attorney, during his absence from his office, by
12N.Y.State leaving the paper with his partner or clerk therein, or with a
Rep. 6G3.
person having charge thereof.
3. Upon an attorney, if there is no person in charge of his
office, and the service is made between six o'clock in the
morning and nine o'clock in the evening, either by leaving it,
in a conspicuous place in his office, or by depositing it, inclosed
in a sealed wrapper, directed to him in his office letter-box ;
or, if the office is not open, so as to admit of leaving the paper
therein, and there is no office letter-box, by leaving it at nis
residence, within the State, with a person of suitable age and
discretion.
4. Upon a party, by leaving the paper at his residence
within the State, between six o'clock in the morning and nine
o'clock in the evening, with a person of suitable age and dis
cretion.
§ 798. Where it is prescribed in this act, or in the general
23N.Y.8tate
rules of practice, that a notice must be given, or a paper must
Rep. 396
be served, within a specified time, before an act is to be done;
or that the adverse party has a specified time, after notice or
service, within which to do an act ; if service is made through
the post-office, the time so required or allowed is double tie time specified ; except that service of notice of trial may Ikmade, through the post-office, not less than sixteen days before
the day of trial, including the day of service.
§ 709. Where a party has appeared, a notice or other
paper, required to be served in an action, must be served upon his attorney. If a defendant has not appeared, service of
a notice or other paper, in the ordinary procedings in the
action, need not be made upon him, unless he is actually con
fined in jail, for want of bail.
§ 800. Where a party to an action, who has appeared in
person, resides without the State, or his residence cannot,
with reasonable diligence, be ascertained, and he has not
designated an address, within the State, upon the preceding
papers, service of a paper upon him may be made, by serv
ing it on the clerk.
§ 801. In the city of New York, where a paper is served, ? 1081, Con
or a return is made, through the post-office, the deposit of the sol. Act.
package in a branch post-office has the same effect, as a
deposit in the general or principal post-office of that city.
§ 802. This article does not apply to the service of a sum
mons, or other process ; or of a paper to bring a party into
contempt ; or to a case where the mode of service is specially
prescribed by law.
§ 803. A court of record, other than a justices' court, in
a city has power to compel a party to an action pending
therein, to produce and discover, or to give to the other
party, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy,
of a book, document or other paper, in his possession or under
his control, relating to the merits of the action, or of the defense therein.
§ 804. The general rules of practice must prescribe the cases, in which a discovery or inspection may be so compelled,
and the proceedings for that purpose, where the same are not
prescribed in this act.
§ 805. To entitle a party to procure such a discovery or 53 N.Y. Supinspection, he must present a petition, praying therefore, and er. Cl (J. &
verified by affidavit, to the court, or to a judge authorized to S.) 263.
make an order in the action ; upon which an order may be
made, directing the party, against whom the discovery or
inspection is sought, to allow it, or, in default thereof, to show
cause before the court, at a time and place, and upon a notice,
therein specified, why the prayer of the petition should not
be granted ; and, if necessary or proper, that his proceedings
be stayed until the hearing of the application, although the
stay exceeds twenty days.
§ 8O0. An order, made as prescribed in the last section,
may be vacated, by the judge who granted it, or by the court,
upon satisfactory proof, by affidavit :
1. That it ought not to have been granted, or that it has
been complied with ; or,
2. That the party required to make the discovery, or permit
the inspection, has not the possession or control of the book,
document, or other paper, directed to be produced or in
spected.
10 Civ. Pro.
§ 807. Upon the return of the order to show cause, the
178.
court may make such an order, with respect to the discovery
or inspection prayed for, as justice requires. Where either is
directed,, a referee may be appointed by the order, to direct
and superintend it ; whose certificate, unless set aside by the
court, is presumptive, and, except in proceedings for con
tempt, conclusive evidence, of compliance or non-compliance
with the terms of the order. A fixed sum, not exceeding
twenty dollars, may be added to the costs of the motion, for
the fees of the referee.
§ 808 Where an order, made as prescribed in the last
section, directs a discovery or inspection, the party in whose
behalf it was made, may, upon proof, by affidavit, that the
adverse party has failed to obey it, and upon notice to him,
apply to the court, for an order to punish him for the failure.
Upon the hearing of the application, the court may, upon the
payment of such a sum, for the expenses of the applicant, as
the court fixes, and upon compliance with such other terms,
as it deems just to impose, permit the party in default to com
ply with the order for a discovery and inspection ; and, for
that purpose, it may direct that the application to punish him
stand over to a future time. Upon the final hearing of th»
application to punish the party in default, the court, in a
proper case, may direct that his complaint be dismissed, or
his answer or reply be stricken out, and that judgment be
rendered accordingly ; or it may make an order, striking out
one or more causes of action, defenses, counterclaims, or
replies, interposed by him ; or that he be debarred from main
taining a particular claim or defense, in relation to which the
discovery or inspection was sought. Where the party has
failed to obey an order, allowing an inspection by the adverse
party, and requiring him to furnish a copy, or permit a copy
to be taken, the court may also direct that the book, docu
ment or other paper, be excluded from being given in evi
dence ; or it may punish the party for a contempt ; or both.
§ 809. A book, document, or other paper, produced under
an order, made as prescribed in this article, has the same
effect, when used by the party requiring it, as if it was pro
duced upon notice, according to the practice of the court.
§ 810. \_Am'd 1877.] A bond or undertaking, given in an
action or special proceeding, as prescribed in this act, must be acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like manner, as
a deed to be recorded.
§ 811. [Am'd 1886.] Where a provision of this act requires a bond or undertaking, with sureties, to be given by or
on behalf of a party or other person, he need not join with the
sureties in the execution thereof, unless the provision requires
him to execute the same ; and the execution thereof by one
surety is sufficient, although the word "sureties" is us^ed,
unless the provision expressly requires two or more sureties ;
and the execution of any such bond or undertaking by any
Fidelity or Surety company authorized by the laws of this
State to transact business, shall be equivalent to the execu
tion of said bond or undertaking by two sureties, provided the
same is approved by a judge of the court in which such bond
or undertaking is given ; and such company if excepted to,
shall justify through its officers or attorney iu the manner re
quired by law. Any' such company may execute any such
bond or undertaking as surety by the hand of its officers, or
attorney, duly authorized thereto by resolution of its board
of directors, a certified copy of which resolution under the
seal of said company shall be filed with each bond or under
taking.
§ 812. A bond or undertaking, executed by a surety or
sureties, as prescribed in this act, must, where two or more
persons execute it, be joint and several in form ; and, except
as otherwise expressly prescribed by law, it must be accom
panied with the affidavit of each surety, subjoined thereto, to
the effect, that he is a resident of, and a householder or a free
holder within, the State, and is worth the penalty of the bond,
or twice the sum specified in the undertaking, over all the
debts and liabilities, which he owes or has incurred, and ex
clusive of property exempt by law from levy and sale under
an execution. A bond or undertaking given by a party, with
out a surety, must be accompanied by his affidavit to the
same effect. The bond or undertaking, except as otherwise
expressly prescribed by law, must be approved by the court,
before which the proceeding is taken, or a judge thereof, or the
judge, before whom the proceeding is taken. The approval
must be indorsed upon the bond or undertaking.

67 How. Pr.
273.

f)B gow pr_
75.

§ 813. [Am'd 1885.] But where the penalty of the bond, 1 riem 171
or twice the sum specified in the undertaking, is five thousand
"
'
dollars, or upwards, the court or judge may, in its or his dis
cretion, allow the sum, in which a surety is required to justify,
to be made up by the justification of two or more sureties,
each in a smaller sum. But, in that case, a surety cannot
justify in a sum less than five thousand dollars; and, where
two or more sureties are required by law to justify, the same
person cannot so contribute to make up the sum, for more than
one of them.
§ 814. Where a bond or undertaking has been given, as
prescribed by law, in the course of an action or special pro- 4 i'iv. Pro.
ceeding, to the people or to a public officer, for the benefit of *}f\
a party or other person interested, and provision is not spec 100 N.Y. 2ti).
ially made by law for the prosecution thereof ; the party or
other person, so interested, may maintain an action in his own
name, for a breach of the condition of the bond, or of the
terms of the undertaking ; upon procuring an order, granting
him leave so to do. The order may be made by the court, in which the action is or was pending ; or by a superior city
court, the marine court of the city of New York, or a county
court, if the bond or undertaking was given in a special pro
ceeding, pending before a judge or that court ; or, in any
other case, by the supreme court. Notice of the application
therefore must be given, as directed by the court or judge, to
the persons interested in the disposition of the proceeds.
§.815 A bond or undertaking, given in an action or special
proceeding, as prescribed in this act, continues in force, after
the substitution of a new party in place of an original party,
or any other change of parties ; and has thereafter the same
force and effect, as if then given anew, in conformity to the
change of parties.
§ 8 1 0. A bond or undertaking, required to be given by
this act, must be filed by the clerk of the court : except where,
in a special case, a different disposition thereof is directed by
the court, or prescribed in this act.
§ 817- Where two or more actions, in favor of the same
plaintifff against the same defendant, for causes of action
which may be joined, are pending in the same court, the
cour* may> m ■ts discretion, by order, consolidate any or all
of them, into one action.
§818. Where one of the actions is pending in the supreme
court; and another is pending in another court, the supreme
court may, by order, remove to itself the action in the other
court, and consolidate it with that in the supreme court.
§ 819. Where separate actions are commenced against
two or more joint and several debtors, in the same court, and
for the same cause of action, the plaintifff may, in auy stage
of the proceedings, consolidate them into one action.
§ 820. [Arri'd 1877.] A defendant, against whom an acfc'on to recover upon a contract, or an action of ejectment, or
an action to recover a chattel, is pending, may, at any time
before answer, upon proof, by affidavit, that a person, not ;i
party to the action, makes a demand against him for the same
debtor property, without collusion with him, apply to the
court, uixm notice to that person and the adverse party, for
an order to substitute that person in his place, and to dis
charge him from liability to either, on his paying into court
the amount of the debt, or delivering possession of the prop
erty, or its value, to such person as the court directs. The
court may, in its discretion, make such an order
§ 821. [Am'd 1877.] Where, in an action against two or
more defendants, the plaintifff unreasonably neglects to serve
the summons upon one or more of them, without whose presence a complete determination of the controversy cannot be
had, the court may, in its discretion, upon the application of a
defendant who has appeared in the action, dismiss the com
plaint as against him, and render judgment accordingly.
§ 822 [Am'd 1879.] Where the plaintifff unreasonably
neglects to proceed in the action against the defendant, or
one or more defendants, against whom a separate judgment
may be taken, the court may, in its discretion, upon the appli
cation of the defendant or defendants, or any of them, against
whom he so neglects to proceed, dismiss the complaint as
against the moving party or parties, and render judgment
accordingly.

5 Week. Dig.
589.
J8,?11™
4 Month. L.
Bul. 42.

§ 823. Feigned issues have been abolished. In a case,
where neither party can, as of right, require a trial by jury of
an issue of fact arising upon the pleadings or where a ques
tion of fact, not in issue upon the pleadings, is to be tried, an
order for the trial thereof by a jury may be made, stating,
distinctly and plainly, the questions of fact to be tried. Such
an order is the only authority necessary for the trial. <
§ 824. The summons, and each pleading in an action;
must be filed with the clerk, by the party in whose behalf it is
served, within ten days after the service thereof. If the
party fails so to file it, the adverse party, on proof of the failure,
is entitled, without notice, jo an order from a judge, that it
be filed within a time specified in the order, or be deemed
abandoned.
§ 825. A return or other paper in a special proceeding, 5 N. Y. Supwhere no other disposition thereof is prescribed by law, must •'■ CU (J. &
be filed, and an order therein must be entered, with the clerk 8-) 69of the county in which the special proceeding is taken, if it is
before a county officer, or a judge of a court established in a
city ; if before a justice of the supreme court, with the clerk
of a county designated by the justice ; or, if no designation is
made by him, of a county where one of the parties resides.
§ 823. [Am'd 1877.] Where a notice, or other proceed
ing, is required by law to be published in a newspaper pub
lished in a county, and no newspaper is published therein,
or to be published oftener than any newspaper is regularly
published therein, the publication may be made in a news
paper of an adjoining county, except where special provision
is otherwise made by law.
§ 827. [Am'd 1877.] Where a provision of this act author
izes the court to approve an undertaking or the sureties there
to ; or to make an examination or inquiry, or to appoint an
appraiser, receiver, or trustee ; it may direct a reference to
one or more persons designated in the older, either to make
the approval, examination, inquiry or appointment, or to re
port the facts to the court, for its action thereupon. And
where, according to the practice of the court of, chancery, on
the thirty-first day of December, eighteen hundred and fortysix, a matter was referable to the clerk, or to a master in
chancery, a court having authority to act thereupon, may
direct a reference to one or more persons, designated in the
order, with the powers which were possessed by the clerk, or
aie master in chancery, except wheic it is otherwise specially
described by law.
8 828. Except as otherwise specially prescribed in this
title, a person shall not be excluded or excused from being a
witness, by reason of his or her interest in the event of an
action or special proceeding ; or because he or she is a party
thereto ; or the husband or wife of a party thereto, or of a
person in whose behalf an action or special proceeding;
brought, prosecuted, opposed, or defended.
§ S20. lAm'd 1877, 1881.] Upon the trial of an action, or
^ne nearm? upon the merits of a special proceeding, a party
or person interested in the event, or a person from, through
or under whom such a party or interested person derives his
interest or title by assignment or otherwise, shall not be examined as a witness in his own behalf or interest, or in behalf
0f the party succeeding to his title or interest against the executor, administrator or survivor of» a deceased person, or the
oommitteof a lunatic, or a person deriving his title or interest
from, through, or under a deceased person or lunatic, by as
signment or'otherwise concerning a personal transaction or
communication between the witness and the deceased person
or lunatic, except where the executor, administrator, survivor.
committee or person so deriving title or interest is examined
m h's own behalf^ or the testimony of the lunatic or deceased
person is given in evidence concerning the same trunsac
ion or communication. A person shall not be deemed intested for the purposes of this section by reason of being a «8 N. Y. Ml.
stockholder or officer of any banking corporation which is a 211 Hun', all;
party to the action or proceeding, or interested in the event 29 Id. 608.
thereof.
92 N. Y. 239 ■ 34 Hun, 97 ; 95 N. Y. 48 ; 3 Dem. 37 ; Id. 324 ; 35 Hun, 198 ;
37 Id. 628; Id. 656; 41 Id. 203; 104 N. Y. 606; 105 Id. 832; 1 Conn.&M;
110 V. Y.513; 3N. Y.Slipp. 518; 112 N. Y. 426; Id.403; 113 Id. 386; 114
Id. 287; 117 Id. 91; Id. 500; Id. 606; 118 Id. 46; 24 N. Y. State Rep. 322;
Id. 332; Id. 685; 25 Id. 3»9 ; 26 Id. 242; Id. 504; Id. 840; 27 Id. 900; 120
N. Y. 536; 121 Id. 675; 29N. Y. State Rep. 882; 33 Id. 775; 34 Id. 448.

§ 830. [Am'd 1878,1879.] Where a party has died since „.„„„.„
the trial of an action, on the hearing upon the merits of a r„d 863-ai
special proceeding, the testimony of the decedent, or of any id ^v. '
person who is rendered incompetent by the provisions of the
fast section, taken or read in evidence at the former trial or
hearing, may be given or read in evidence at a new trial or
hearing by either party, subject to any other legal objection
to the competency of the witness, or to any legal objection to
his testimony or any question put to him.
§ 831. [Am'd 1877, 1879, 1880, 1887.] A husband or wife
is not competent to testify against the other, upon the trial of
an action, or the hearing upon the merits of a special proceeding, founded upon an allegation of adultery, except to prove
the marriage or disprove the allegation of adultery. A busband or wife shall not be compelled, or without the consent of
the other if living, allowed to disclose a confidential communication made by one to the other during marriage. In an
action for criminal conversation, the plaintifffs wife is not a
competent witness for the plaintifff, but she is a competent
witness for the defendant, as to any matter in controversy ;
except that she cannot, without the plaintifffs consent, dis
close any confidential communication had or made between
herself and the plaintifff.
§ 832. [Am'd 1879.] A person who has been convicted of
a crime or misdemeanor is, notwithstanding, a competent
witness in a civil or criminal action or special proceeding ; but
the conviction may be proved for the purpose of affecting the
weight of his testimony, either by the record, or by his crossexamination, upon which he must answer any question, relevant to that inquiry ; and the party cross-examining him is
not concluded by his answer to such a question.

« Hun 424
hon.y'. 386!
1 2 Civ. Pro!
111.
24N.Y.8tate
SeK'll8"p
6}

I Civ. Pro.
**v,
b,j| "jJJ
al jj y 241
112 How. Pr.
148.
121 N.Y. 266.

§ 833. A clergyman, or other minister of any religion,
shall not be allowed to disclose a confession made to him, in
his professional character, in the course of discipline, enjoined
by the rules or practice of the religious body, to which he be
longs.
§ 834. A person, duly authorized to practice physic or
surgery, shall not be allowed to disclose any information
which he acquired in attending a patient, in a professional
capacity, and which was necessary to enable him to act in
that capacity.
103 Id. 573; 20 Abb. N. C. 162; 45 Hun. 307; Id. 430 ; 106 N. Y. 298; 53
Hun, 217 ; 23 N. Y. State Rep. 706 : 24 Id. 938 ; 25 Id. K43 ; 26 Id. 242 ;
27 Id. 905; 112 N. Y.493; 118 N. Y. 77; 3 N. Y. Hupp. 518; 53Huu,398;
24 N. Y. State Rep. 633 ; 34 N. Y. SUne Rip. 8j4.

-. „ Y igs
19 |jun' 55!
24 Id. 43*; 32
Id. 306. '
va N.Y. 56 ;
101 Id. 126;
§ 835. An atttorney or counsellor-afc-law shall not be
allowed to disclose a communication, made by his client to him, or
nis advice given thereon, in the course of his professional employ: ment19 Abb. N.C. 101; 5 Dem. 154; «Hun,151: 111 N. Y.220; 6 N. Y. Supp.397; 24
N. Y. State Rep. 7C5; 26 Id. 64; Id. 9SJ; Ti Id- 606; 28 Id. 342; 34 Id. 448; 51 Hun,
351.
ill NY m
§ 830' Mm'd1877, 1891.] The last three sections apply
• to any examination of a person as a witness unless the provisions
thereof are expressly waived upon the trial or examination by the
person confessing—the patient or the client. But a physician orsurgt-on may upon a trial or examination disclose any information as to
the mental or physical condition of a patientwho is deceased, which
he acquired attending such patient professionally, except confidential
communications and such facts as would tend to disgrace the memory
- : '
of the patient, when the provisions of eight hundred and thirty-four
have been expressly waived on such trial or examination by the per
sonal representatives of the deceased patient or if the validity of the
last will and testament of such deceased patient is in question, by the
executor or executors named in said will.
§ 837. A competent witness shall not be excused from
answering a relevant question, on the ground cnly that the Answer
may tend to establish the fact that he owes a debt, or is otherwise
subject to a civil suit. But this provision does not require a witness
to give an answer, which will tend to accuse himself of a crime or
misdemeanor, or to expose him to a penalty or forfeiture ; nor does
it vary any other rule, respecting the examination of a witness.
§ 838. The testimony of a party, taken at the instance
of the adverse party, orally or by deposition, may be rebutted by
other evidence.
§ 830. The admission of a member of an aggregate cor
poration, who is nota party.shall not be received as evidence against
the corporation, unless it was made concerning and while engaged in
a transaction, in which he was the authorized agent of the corporation.
§ 840. [Am?d 1877.] A seal upon an executory instru
ment, hereafter executed, is only presumptive evidence ofa sufficient
consideration, which may be rebutted, as if the instrument was not
§ 841. [Amtd 1880, 1889, 1891.] A person upon whose
life an estate in real property depends, who remains without the
United States, or absents himself in the State or elsewhere for seven
years together, is presumed to be dead in an action or special pro
ceeding concerning the property in which his death comes in ques
tion, unless it is affirmatively proved that he was alive within that
time. And where in any action of partition in this State any portion
of the proceeds of the sale of real property is or has been paid into
court, or paid to the treasurer of any county for any unknown heirs,
and has remained unclaimed for twenty-five years, after such pay
ment by any person entitled thereto, the lapse of twenty-five years
after such payment raises the presumption of the death of such un
known heirs at the time of the sale of such real property and before
such payment, and after the lapse of twenty-five years after such pay
ment it shall be presumed that there were no such unknown heirs
living at the time of such sale or payment, and in any action or pro
ceeding taken for the purpose of disti ibuting and paying over such
proceeds, all such unknown heirs are presumed and they shall he
presumed to have been dead at the time ol such sale and before such
payment into court, or to the treasurer of any county.
§ 848. lAmd 1S7T.] If tiie court or officer, before wh;oh
or whom a person is offered as a witness, is sal ;>:u\i. that anypeculiar mode of swearing, in lieu of. or 111 a<lait:on to laym$f
the hand upon and kissing the gospels, is. in Ins opinion, iih»rr>
solemn and obligatory, the court or < ffioor may, in its or his
discretion, adopt that mode of swearing the wiiuos.
§ 849. [Am'd 1S77.; A person believing in it rolijiion,
other than the Christian, may be sworu itouonling to Um peculiar ceremonies, if any, of his religion, instead of as pre
scribed in section eight hundred and forty-five or section
eight hundred and forty-six of this act.
§ 850. The court or officer may examine an infant, or a
person apparently of weak intellect, produced before it or
him, as a witness, to ascertain his capacity and the extent of
his knowledge ; and may inquire of a person, produced as a
witness, what peculiar ceremonies in swearing he deems most
obligatory.
§ 85 1 . A person swearing, affirming or declaring, in any
form, where an oath is authorized by law, is lawfully sworn,
and is guilty of perjury, in a case wnere he would be guilty of
the same crime, if he had sworn by laying his hand upon and
kissing the gospels.
§ 852. A subpoena, issued out of the court, to compel the
attendance of a witness, and, where the subpoena so requires,
to compel him to bring with him a book or paper, must be
served as follows :
1. The original subpoena must be exhibited to the witness.
2. A copy of the subpoena, or a ticket containing its sub
stance, must be delivered to him.
3. The fees allowed by law, for travelling to, and returning
from, the place where he is required to attend, and for one
day's attendance, must be paid or tendered to him.
§ 853. A person so subpoenaed, who fails, without reason
able excuse, to obey the subpoena, or a person who fails, with
out reasonable excuse, to obey an order, duly served upon
him, made by the court or a judge, in an action, before or
after final judgment therein, requiring him to attend, and be
examined, or so to attend, and bring with him a book or a
paper, is liable, in addition to punishment for contempt, for
the d images sustained by the party aggrieved in consequence
of the failure, and fifty dollars in addition thereto. Those
sums may be recovered in one action, or in separate actions.
If he is a party to the action in which he was subpoenaed,
the court may, as an additional punishment, strike out his
pleading.
8 854. [Am?d 1877.] Where a judge, or an arbitrator,
referee, or other person, or a board or committee, has been heretofore, or is hereafter expressly authorized by law, to
hear, try, or determine a matter or to do any other act in an
official capacity, in relation to which proofs may be taken, or
the attendance of a person as a witness may be required ; or
to require a person to attend, either before him or it, or be
fore another judge, or officer, or a person designated in a
commission issued by a court of another State or country, to
give testimony, or to have his deposition taken, or to be ex
amined ; a subpocena may be issued, by and under the hand
of the judge, arbitrator, referee, or other person, or the
chairman, or a majority, of the board or committee, requiring
the person to attend ; and also, iu a proper case, to bring
with him a book or a paper. The subpoena must be served, as
prescribed in section eight hundred and fifty-two of this act
This section does not apply to a matter arising, or an act to
be done, in an action in a court of record.
§ 855. [ArrVd 1877, 1879.] A person who is duly subpoenaed
as prescribed in the last section, must obey the subpoena. If
he fails so to do, without a reasonable excuse, he is liable, in
addition to any other punishment which may be lawfully in
flicted therefore, for the damages sustained by the person
aggrieved, in consequence of the failure, and fifty dollars in
addition thereto, to be recovered as prescribed in section
eight hundred and fifty-three of this act. If he fails to attend,
the person issuing the subpoena, if he is a judge of a court or
record or not of record, or if not, then any judge of such a
court, upon proof by affidavit of the failure to attend, must
issue a warrant to the sheriff of the county, commanding him
to apprehend the defaulting witness, and bring him before the
officer, person, or body, before whom or which his attendance
was required.
§ 853. [Arri'd 1879.] If the person subpoenaed and atN_
tending or brought as prescribed in the last section, before an j/™ ' gjji
officer, or other person or a body refuses without reasonable
P" "'
cause to be examined, or to answer a legal and pertinent
question, or to produce a book or paper which he was directed
to bring by the terms of the subpoena, or to subscribe his
deposition after it has been correctly reduced to writing, the
person issuing the subpoena, if he is a judge of a court of
record, or not of record, may forthwith, or if he is not, then
any judge of such court may up011 proof by affidavit of the
facts by warrant commit the offender to jail, there to remain
until he submits to do the act which he was so required to do
or is discharged according to law.
§ 857. A warrant of commitment, issued as prescribed in 27 N.Y.si 'to
the last section, must specify particularly the cause of the Rep. 35J.
commitment ; and, if the witness is committed for refusing to
answer a question, the question must be inserted in the war
rant.
§ 858. A warant to apprehend or commit a person, issued
as prescribed in this title, must be directed to the sheriff of
the county where the person is, and must be executed by him,
in the same manner, as a similar mandate issued, by a court
of record, in an action.
§ 859. The foregoing sections of this title do not apply to
a subpoena issued by a justice of the peace ; or to a witness
subpoenaed to attend a court held by a justice of the peace ;
or to a case where special provision is otherwise made by law,
for compelling the attendance of a witness.
§ 860. A person duly and in good faith subpoenaed or
ordered to attend, for the purpose of being examined, in a
case where his attendance may lawfully be enforcod by at
tachment or by commitment, is privileged from arrest in a
civil action or special proceeding, while going to, remain
ing at, and returning from, the place where he is required to
attend.
§ 861. The court from which a subpoena, served in good
faith, was issued, or by which an order was made, requiring a
person to attend, for the purpose of being examined ; or a
judge thereof, upon proof, by affidavit, of the facts, must
make an order, directing the discharge of a witness or other
person, from an arrest made in violation of the last section.
§ 862. [Am'd 1877.] A justice of the supreme court, in
any part of the State, or a county judge, or a judge of a
superior city court, within his district, has the like authority
as a judge of the court, to make an order for a discharge, in
a case specified in the last section. Upon satisfactory proof,
by affidavit, of the facts, he must also make an order, direct
ing the discharge of a person arrested, in violation of section
eight hundred and sixty of this act, where a subpoena, served
in good faith upon the person arrested, was issued as pre
scribed in section eight hundred and fifty-four of this act
8 Ciy. Pro.
§ 863. An arrest made contrary to the foregoing provis386.
' ions of this title, is absolutely void, and is a contempt of the
court, if any, from which the subpoena was issued, or by
which the witness was directed to attend. An action may be
maintained, by the person arrested, against the officer or
other person making such arrest, in which the plaintifff is en
titled to recover treble damages. A similar action may also
be maintained, in a like case, by the party in whose behalf
the witness was subpoenaed, or the order procured, to recover
the damages sustained by him, in consequence of the arrest
§ 864. [Atn'd 1877.] But a sheriff, or other officer, or
person, is not so liable, unless the person claiming an exemp
tion from arrest, makes, if required by the sheriff or officer,
an affidavit to the effect that he was legally subpoenaed or
ordered to attend, and that he was not so subpoenaed or
ordered by his own procurement, with the intent of avoiding
arrest. In his affidavit he must specify the court or officer,
the place of attendance, and the cause in which he was so
subpoenaed or ordered. The affidavit may be taken before
the officer arresting him, and exonerates the officer from lia
bility for not making the arrest.
§ 865. The foregoing provisions of this title, relating to a
person required, by an order of a court, to attend, apply,
where such an attendance is required by the terms of a judg
ment.
§ 866. The record of a conveyance of real property, or
any other record, or document, whereof a transcript duly cer
tified may by law be read in evidence, shall not be removed,
by virtue of a subpoena duces tecum, from the office iu which
it is kept ; except temporarily, by the clerk having it in cus
tody, to a term or sitting of the court of which he is clerk ; or
by the officer, having it in custody, to a term or sittiug of a
court, or a trial before a referee, held in the city or town
where his office is situated. Where it is required at any other
place it may be removed, by order of the supreme court, a superior city court, or a county court, made in court, and en
tered in the minutes ; specifying that the production of the
original, instead of a transcript, is necessary.
§ 867. [Arid 1877, 1879.] A person shall not be compell- -. _
ed to produce, upon a trial or hearing, a book of account
otherwise than by an order requiring him to produce it, or a
subpoena duces tecum. Such subpoena must be served at least
five days before the day when he is required to attend. At
any time after service of such a subpoena, or order, the wit
ness may obtain upon such a notice as the judge, referee, or
other officer prescribes, an order relieving him wholly or
partly from the obligations imposed upon him by the sub
poena, or the order for production, upon such terms as justice
requires, touching the inspection of the book, or any portion,
thereof or taking a copy thereof, or extracts therefrom, or
otherwise. An order may be made, as prescribed in this
section, by a judge of the court, or, in a special proceeding
pending out of court before an officer, by the officer, or, in
either case, by a referee duly appointed in the cause, and
authorized to hear testimony. A justice of the peace, or other
judge of a court not of record, may make such an order in an
action brought in his court, at any time after the commence
ment thereof.
§ 868. The production, upon a trial, of a book or paper,
belonging to or under the control of a corporation, may be
compelled, in like manner as if it was in the hands, or under
the control, of a natural person. For that purpose a sub
poena duces tecum, or an order, made as prescribed in the
last section, as the case requires, must be directed to the
president, or other head of the corporation, or to the officer
thereof, in whose custody the book or paper is.
§ 869. In a case specified in the last section, or where a
subpoena duces tecum, or an order, made as prescribed in
section eight hundred and sixty-six or section eight hundred
and sixty-seven of this act, requires a public officer to attend,
and bring a book or paper under his control, the subpoena or
order is deemed to be sufficiently obeyed, if the book or paper
is produced by a subordinate officer or employee of the cor
poration, or in the public office, who possesses the requisite
knowledge to identify it, and to testify respecting the pur
poses for which it is used. If the personal attendance of a
particular officer of the corporation or public officer is requir
ed, a subpoena, without a duces tecum clause, must also be
served upon mm.
§ 870. [Am'd 1877, 1878.] The deposition of a party to an
aotion pending in a court of record or of a person who expects
to De a Party to an action about to be brought in such a court
other than a court specified in subdivisions sixteenth, seventeenth, eighteenth or nineteenth of section two of this act
may be taken at his own instance or at the instance of an adverse party or of a co-plaintifff or co-defendant at any time be
*ore
tria* as PresonDed in tnis article.
12 Civ. Pro 4; 101 N. Y. 176; 109 Id. 81.
? 1369, Con§ 871. [Am'd 1877.] The deposition of a person not a
sol. Act.
party, whose testimony is material and necessary to a party
to an action, pending in a court of record, other than a court
specified in subdivision sixteenth, seventeenth, eighteenth or
nineteenth of section two of this act ; or to a person who ex
pects to be a party to an action, about to be Brought in such
a court, by a person other than the person to be examined,
may also be taken, as prescribed in this article.
4 vAbb. N.
§ 872. lAm'd 1877, 1879, 1880.] The person desiring to
C- 248; Id. take a deposition, as prescribed in this article, may present to
!?i
.„„ a judge of the court in which the action is pending, or, if it is
19 Week
Pendmg in the supreme court, to a county judge, or, if an
Dig. 375.'
action is not pending, but is expected to be brought, to a judge
37 Hun, 232; of the supreme court, or of a superior city court, or to a
Id. 531.
county judge, an affidavit setting forth as follows :
53N.Y.Super. Ct. (J. &S.)263; 12 N.Y. State Rep. 130; 109N.Y.81;24
N. Y. State Rep. 860; 25 Id. 189 ; 63 Hun, 347.
1. The names and residences of all the parties to the action,
and whether or not they have appeared ; and, if either of
them has appeared by attorney, the name, and the residence
or office address of the attorney, or, if no action is pending
the names and residences of the expected parties thereto.
8. If an action is pending, the nature of the action and the
substance of the judgment demanded, and, if the application
is made by the defendant before answer, or by either party
after answer, the nature of the defense.
3. If no action is pending, the nature of the controversy
•Which is expected to be the subject thereof.
4. The name and residence of the person to be examined,
and that the testimony of such person is material and neces
sary for the party making such application, or the prosecution
or defense of such action ; and, at the option of the applicant,
the place where he is sojourning, or where he regularly tran
sacts business.
11 Abb. N. 5. If an action is pending, that the person to be examined is
C. 419.
about to depart from the State ; or that he is so sick or infirm
32 Hun, 12. as to afford reasonable ground to believe that he will uot be
%m '
' aole to attend tne trial i or tnat any other special circum3NY Sudd dances exist which render it proper that he should be exam<%l[ "
iQed as prescribed in this article. But this subdivision does
not apply to a case where the person to be examined is a party
to the action.
6. If no action is pending, that the person expected to be the
adverse party is of full age, and a resident of the State, or
sojourning within the State ; or that he has an office within
the State where he regularly transacts business in person,
specifying the place, and, if it is in a city, the street and
street number, or other designation of the particular locality;
or, if two or more persons are expected to be adverse parties,
that each is of full age, and so resident or sojourning, or has
such an office ; also the circumstances which render it neces
sary for the protection of the applicant's rights that the wit
ness's testimony should be perpetuated.
7. Any other fact necessary to show that the case comes
within one of the last two sections, and if the party sought to
be examined is a corporation, the affidavit shall state the
name of the officers or directors thereof, or any of them
whose testimony is necessary and material, or the books and
papers as to the contents of which an examination or inspec
tion is desired, and the order to be made in respect thereto
shall direct the examination of such persons and the produc
tion of such books and papers.
§ 873. Um'd 1877, 1879, 1884.] The judge, to whom such
an affidavit is presented, must grant an order for the examination, if an action is pending ; if no action is pending, he must
grant it, if there is reasonable ground to believe that an action
will be brought, as stated in the affidavit, and that the application is made in good faith to preserve the expected testimony ; otherwise he mast dismiss the application. Where
the person to be examined is a party to a pending action, or
is expected to be a party to an action to be brought, the
order may, in the discretion of the judge, designate and limit
the particular matters as to which he shall be examined The
order must require the party or person to be examined to ap
pear before the judge, or before a referee named in the order,
for the purpose of taking the examination, at a time and place
therein specified. The order must also direct the time of the
service of a copy thereof ; which must be made within the
State, not more than twenty, nor less than five days before
the time fixed for the examination, unless special circumstan
ces, making a different time of service necessary, are shown
in the affidavit, and that fact is recited in the order.
§ 874. [im'd 1877, 1882.] Witnesses' fees, at the rate
prescribed by law in an action in the supreme court, must be
paid or tendered when the order is served upon the party or
other person required to attend. If the party or person so
served fails to obey the order, his attendance may be com
pelled and he may be punished, in like manner, and the pro
ceedings thereon are the same, as if he failed to obey a sub
poena issued from the court in which the action is pending, or,
if no action is pending from the court of which the judge is a
member
§ 875. [Arid 1879.] A copy of the order, and of the affidavit upon which it was granted, must be served upon the
attorney for each party to the action, in like manner as a pa
per in the action ; or, if a party has not appeared in the action,
they must be served upon him, as directed by the order. If
no "action is pending, tney must be personally served upon
each of the persons named therein as expected adverse par
ties.
§ 876. [Ara'd 1879.] Upon proof, by affidavit, that scrvice of a copy of the order and of the affidavit has been
duly made, as directed in the order, the judge or the referee
must proceed to take the deposition of the witness, at the time
and place specified in the order. He may from time to time,
adjourn the examination to another day, and to another place,
within the same county. Sections eight hundred and fifty-six,
eight hundred and fifty-seven, and eight hundred and fiftyeight of this act apply to the examination of a party or a per
son expected to be an adverse party, taken as prescribed in
this article.
§ 877. [Arid 1877, 1882.] Where the party or other per
son to be examined is confined in a prison or jail within the
State, under a sentence for a felony, that fact must be stated
in the affidavit, and his deposition may be taken as prescribed
in the foregoing sections, as if he was not so confined, except
that in such a case, the granting or refusing the order, and if
granted, the appointment of a referee to take the testimony,
is always in the discretion of the judge. The order must re
quire the production of the prisoner oy the person in charge
of the prison or jail, at the prison or jail ; but it may prescribe
such regulations and restrictions with respect thereto as the
judge deems proper.
§ 878. [Repealed, 1877.]
§ 879. [Arri'd 1883.] The parties to an action may stipu
late in writing that the deposition of a competent witness, to
be used therein, may be taken befoi* a judge or referee, at a
time and place specified in the stipulation, either orally or
upon interrogatories to be agreed upon in like manner. The
witness may be subpoenaed to attend the examination as
upon a trial, and the judge or referee may take his deposition,
as if an order had been made by the court directing it to be
so taken. But this section does not apply to a case specified
in section eight hundred and seventy-seven of this act.
33 Hun, 1.
§ 880. [.iire'<Z1879.] The examination of a party, or an expected party, is subject to the same rules as it he was exami ned upon the trial. The judge or referee, upon every other ex
amination, taken as prescribed in this article, must insert there
in every answer or declaration of the person examined, which
either party requires to be inserted. The deposition, when
completed, must be carefully read to and subscribed by the
person examined ; must be certified by the judge or referee
taking it ; and, within ten days thereafter, must be filed in the
office of the clerk ; or, if no action is pending, in the office of
the clerk of the county in which it was taken ; together with
the stipulation or order under which it was taken ; the affida
vit upon which the order was granted ; and proof of the ser
vice of a copy of the order and of the affidavit. If, upon an
examination before a referee, the person examined refuses to
answer any question, the referee must report the fact to the
court or judge, who must determine whether the question is
relevant, and whether the witness is bound to auswer it.
§ 881. The deposition, or a certified copy thereof, may be
read in evidence by either party, at the trial of, or upon the as
sessment of damages, by writ of inquiry, or upon a reference,
or otherwise, in the action specified in the original affidavit
or stipulation; or any other action thereafter brought, lx'tween the same parties, or between any parties claiming un
der them, or either of them ; or, if no action is pending, au.action thereafter brought, between the persons named in the
original affidavit as expected parties, or between persons
claiming under them or either of them.
§ 882. [Am'd 1883.] But such a deposition, except that of «» v v zra
a party, taken at the instance of an adverse party, or a depo' ^^
sition taken in pursuance of a stipulation, as prescribed in tnis
article, shall not be so read in evidence until it nas been satisfac
torily proved, that the witness is dead, or is unable personally
to attend by reason of his insanity, sickness or other infirmity,
or that he is confined in a prison or jail ; or that he has been
and is absent from the State, so that his attendance could not
with reasonable diligence be compelled by subpoena.
§ 883. A deposition, so read in evidence, has the same ef- > j^ confect, and no other, as the oral testimony of the witness would sol. Act.
have ; and an objection to the competency or credibility of the
witness ; or to the relevancy or substantial competency of a
question put to him, or of an answer given by him ; may be
made, as if the witness was then personally examined, and
without being noted upon the deposition.
§ 884. The original affidavits, filed with such a deposition,
or certified copies thereof, are presumptive evidence of the
facts therein contained, to show a compliance with the provi
sions of this article.
§ 885. \_Am'd 1887.] Where a party intends to make or . Month L
oppose a motion in a court of record, other than a court speci- J,™ 3 ' '
fled in subdivision sixteen, seventeen, eighteen or nineteen of 27 Hiin, 352.
section two of this act, and it is necessary for him to have the 3 Civ. Pn>.
affidavit or deposition of a person not a party, to use upon the 448; 4 Idmotion, the court, or a judge authorized to make an order in 214the cause, may, in its or his discretion, make an order appoin- * $ Y^fij! , '
ting a referee to take the deposition of that person. The order '£ m"
must be founded upon proof, by affidavit, that the applicant 4 r>m. 212.
intends to make the motion, or that notice of a motion has been a> Abb. N.
given, which the applicant intends to oppose. The affidavit 0. 172.
must specify the nature of the motion, and must show that the 2 N. Y.Supp.
affidavit or deposition is necessary thereon, and that such per- 2*2'
son has refused to make an affidavit of the facts which the ap
plicant verily believes are within his knowledge. The order
may be made upon or without notice. The person to be examhied may be subpoenaed, and compelled to attend, as upon the
trial. The deposition, when taken, must be delivered to the
attorney for the party who procured the order, unless the or
der provides for a different disposition thereof.
§ 886. Where a person to be examined, as prescribed in m civ. pro.
this article, is a resident of the State, he shall not be required 178.
to attend in any county, other than that in which he resides, 31 Hun, 05.
or where he has an office for the regular transaction of busi' ness, in person. Where he is not a resident, he shall not be re
quired to attend in any other county, than that wherein he is
served with a subpoena, unless, for special reasons, stated in
the affidavit, the order otherwise directs.
§ 887. \_AftCd 1879.] In a case specified in the next sec
2 Pern. 298.
4N.Y.Supp. tion, where it appears, by affidavit, on the application of
703.
either party, that the testimony of one or more witnesses, not
within the State, is material to the applicant, a commission
may be issued, to one or more competent persons, named
therein, authorizing them, or any one of them, to examine the
witness or witnesses named therein, under oath, upon the
interrogatories annexed to the commission ; to take and certify
the deposition of each witness, and to return the same, and
the commission, according to the directions given in or with
the commission. The applicant, or any other party to the
action, may be thus examined.
8 888. Such a commission may be issued, in either of the
4 N.Y.Supp.
following cases :
703.
1. Where a party to an action, brought in a court of record,
is in default for want of an appearance or pleading, and the
testimony is required upon the assessment of damages, by a
writ of inquiry, or upon a reference ; or otherwise, to enable
the court to render the proper final judgment.
2. Where final judgment has been rendered against the
adverse party, in an action brought in a court of record ; and
the testimony is required, in order to carry the judgment into
effect.
3. Where an appeal from a final judgment, rendered in the
supreme court, a superior city court, the marine court of the city
of New York, or a county court, or a motion for a new trial
in either of those courts, is pending ; and the testimony will
be material and necessary to the applicant in the prosecution
or defense of the action, if a new trial is granted.
4. Where the application is made before the joinder of the
issue, in an action brought in either of the courts, specified in
the last subdivision ; and there is reason to apprehend, that
before issue is joined, and an application for a commission
can thereafter be made, the witness will die, or become unable
to give his testimony, or remove, so that his testimony cannot
be taken.
5. Where an issue of fact has been joined, in an action
pending in a court of record, and the testimony is material to
the applicant, iu the prosecution or defense thereof.
§ 889. In a case specified in subdivision third of the last section, if the appeal has been taken to another court, the
application must oe made to the court in which the judgment
was rendered ; and an order, directing the commission to be
issued, may be granted or refused, in the discretion of that
oourt. In a case specified in either of the other subdivisions
of that section, the application may be made to the court, or
a judge thereof, or, in the supreme court, to the county judge
of the county, where the action is triable ; and it must be
granted, upon satisfactory proof of the facts authorizing it,
unless the court or judge has reason to believe, that the appli
cation is not made in good faith, or unless an order for an
open commission, or for taking depositions, is made as pre
scribed in this article. Notice of the application must be given
to the adverse party, unless he is in default for want of an
appearance. Upon granting the order, the court or judge
may, in any case, impose such terms as justice requires.
§ 890. Where the order is made by a judge, out of court,
it must be entered in the office of the clerk. It shall be grant
ed, only in a case, where the court would grant it, and upon
the same terms ; and it is subject to the control of the court.
§ 891. Unless the interrogatories, to be annexed to the
commission, are settled by consent of the parties, they must
be settled, upon notice, by a judge of the court, or, in the su
preme court, by the county judge of the county, where the
action is triable, as prescribed in the general rules of practice.
§ 892. The interrogatories, when settled, must be annex
ed to the commission. Either party must be allowed to insert
therein any question, pertinent to the issue, which he pro
poses. Unless the parties stipulate in writing, or the order
granting the commission prescribes, how it shall be returned,
the judge must indorse, upon the commission, the proper
direction for that purpose. Unless the court or judge thinks
proper to direct it to be returned by an agent, it must be re
turned through the post-office.
§ 893. [Am'd 1877.] Where an issue of fact, joined in an
action, is pending in the supreme court, a superior city court,
the marine court of the city of New York, or a county court,
the parties may stipulate, in writing, or the court to which,
or the judge to whom an application for a commission is made,
may, in its or his discretion, direct, in the order, that a com
mission issue without written interrogatories, and that the
depositions be taken upon oral questions ; or that a commis
sion issue, to take the deposition of one or more witnesses,
designated in the order, partly upon oral questions, and partly
upon written interrogatories, or to take the deposition of one
or more witnesses, designated in the order, upon oral ques
tions, and one or more witnesses, designated in the order,
upon written interrogatories.
§ 894. Where an issue of fact, joined in an action, is ]oAbb.NC
pending in either of the courts specified in the last section, the 324.
parties may stipulate, in writing, or the court, or a judge
thereof, or, in the supreme court, the county judge of the
county where the action is triable, may, in its or his discre
tion, upon the application of either party, and upon satis
factory proof, by affidavit, that one or more witnesses, not
within the State, are material and necessary in the prosecu
tion or defense of the action, make an order, upon such terms
as it or he deems proper, directing that an open commission issue, or that depositions be taken, as prescribed in the follow
ing sections of this article.
4 Dem. 330.
8 895. [ArrCd 1879.] The last two sections are not appli
cable where the adverse party is an infant, or the committee
of a person judicially declared to be incapable of managing
his affairs, by reason of lunacy, idiocy, or habitual drunken
ness ; or where the testimony is to be taken elsewhere than in
the United States or in Canada. Nor can the applicant be ex
amined in his own behalf, as prescribed in those sections,
except by consent of the parties.
§ 896. Where a commission is issued, to take testimony
without written interrogatories, as prescribed in section eight
hundred and ninety-three or section eight hundred and ninetyfour of this act, notice of the time and place of the examina
tion of a witness, by virtue thereof, naming the witness, must
be served as prescribed in section eight hundred and ninetynine of this act.
§ 897. An open commission must be directed to one or
more persons, named therein, and must authorize them, or
any one of them, to examine any witness who may be pro
duced by either party, on or before a day specified therein,
upon oral questions to be put to the witness, when he is pro
duced ; to take and certify the deposition of each witness so
examined ; and to return the same, and the commission, im
mediately after the expiration of the time limited for the
production of witnesses, according to the directions, given in
or with the commission,
§ 898. An order, directing that depositions be taken,
must specify the time within which they must be taken, and
the manner in which they must be returned. It may also
contain such additional directions, not inconsistent with the
next section, with respect to the time and manner of giving
notice, as the court or judge deems proper. The order must
be entered in the clerk's office ; and a certified copy thereof
must be annexed to each deposition, or set of depositions, re
turned as prescribed in the following sections of this article.
§ 899. A deposition may be taken, pursuant to such an
order, before a person mutually agreed upon by the parties,
or a chancellor, or a judge of a court of record, or the mayor
or other chief magistrate of a city, or a justice of the peace of
the State or Territory, where the witness is ; who is not
counsel or attorney for either party, and would not be dis
qualified, by reason of affinity or consanguinity to a party, or
interest in the event, from serving as a juror upon the trial of
the action, within the State. Written notice of the time and
place of taking a deposition, specifying the name of the wit
ness, and the person before whom it will be taken, must be
served by the party, at whose instance it is taken, upon the
attorney for the adverse party. The time for serving such a
.' , .
notice must be, at least, five judicial days before the deposi
tion is taken ; and one judicial day, in addition, for each fifty
miles, by the usual route of travel, between the residence of
the attorney for the adverse party, and the place where the
deposition is to be taken.
§ 900. TTpon the examination of a witness, without writ
ten interrogatories, by virtue of a commission, or of an order
to take depositions, the commissioner, or the person before whom the deposition is taken, must take down, or cause to be
taken down, as prescribed in the next section, the substance
of the witness's testimony ; unless he is directed, in the coinmission or the order, or required by the person appearing for
either party, to insert in the deposition any or all of the
questions or answers, word for word. Unless the commission
or order otherwise directs, the person, appearing for either
party, may ask any question, which he deems proper, and the
witness's answer must be taken accordingly, the objections
thereto being reserved, without being specified at the time of
examination. A copy of this section must be unnexed to each
commission to take testimony without written interrogatories,
and to each certified copy of an order to take a deposition.
fQOl. The person, to whom a commission is directed, or
ore whom a deposition is taken, unless otherwise expressly
directed in the commission. Or in the order for taking the
depositions, must execute the commission, or the order, as
follows :
1. He must publicly administer, to each witness examined,
an oath or affirmation to testify the truth, the whole truth,
and nothing but the truth, as to the matters representing
which the witness is to be examined^
2. He must reduce the examination of each witness to wri
ting, or cause it to be reduced to writing, by a disinterested
person. After it has been carefully read, to or by the wit
ness, it must be subscribed by the witness.
3. If an exhibit is produced and proved, the exhibit, or, if
the witness, or other person having it in his custody, does not
surrender it, a copy thereof, must be annexed to the deposi
tion to which it relates, subscribed by the witness proving it,
and numbered or otherwise identified, in writing thereupon,
by the commissioner, or person taking the deposition, who
must subscribe his name thereto.
4. The commissioner, or person taking the deposition, must
subscribe his name to each half sheet of the deposition ; he
must annex all the depositions and exhibits to the commission,
or to a certified copy of the order for taking the deposition,
with the certificate specified in the next section ; and he must
close them up under his seal, and address the packet, to the
clerk of the court, at his official residence.
5. If there is a direction, on the commission, or in the order,
to return the same through the post-office, he must immediate
ly deposit the packet, so addressed, in the post-office, and pay
tne postage thereon.
6. If there is a direction, on the commission, or in the order,
to return the same by an agent of the party, at whose in
stance it was issued or granted, the packet so addressed must
be delivered to the agent.
7. Where a commission is directed to two or more persons,
one or more of them may execute it, as prescribed in this and
the next section.
A copy of this and of the next section must be annexed to
each commission, or order to take depositions, authorized by
this article.
§ 002. The commissioner or other person, before whom
one or more depositions are taken, must subscribe, and annex
to each deposition, a certificate, substantially in the following
form, the blanks being properly filled up :
, do certify that
, the witness, per
sonally appeared before me on the
day of
,
at
o'clock in the
noon, at the
, in.
the State "(or "Territory") "of
, and after being
sworn" (or" affirmed," as the case may be), "to testify the
truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, did depose
to the matters contained in the foregoing deposition, and did,
in my presence, subscribe the same, and indorsed the exhibits
annexed thereto. And I further certify that I have subscri
bed my name to each half-sheet thereof, and to each exhibit.
And I further certify that
appeared in behalf of the
, and that
appeared in behalf of the

»
§ 903. The certificate, specified in the last section, is a
sufficient return to a commission.
§ 904. If the packet, specified in section nine hundred and
one of this act, is delivered to an agent, he must deliver it to
the clerk, to whom it is addressed, or to a judge of the court,
either of whom must receive and open it, upon the agent ma
king affidavit, that he received it from the hands of the com
missioner, or the person who took the deposition, and that it
has not been opened or altered, since he so received it.
§ 905. If the agent is dead, or, from sickness or other casu
alty, is unable to deliver the packet personally, as prescribed
in the last section, it must be received, by the clerk or judge,
from the hands of any other person, upon the latter making an
affidavit, that he received it from the agent ; that the agent is
dead, or otherwise unable to deliver it ; that it has not been
opened or altered since he received it, and that he believes
that it has not been opened or altered, since it came from the
hands of the commissioner, or the person who took the deposi
tion.
a Abb N
§ 906. The clerk or judge, who receives and opens the
c 332
packet, as prescribed in the last two sections, must indorse
thereupon, and sign, a note of the time of the receipt and open
ing thereof, and immediately file it in the office of the clerk, to
gether with the affidavit of the person, who delivered it to
him.
§ 907. If the packet is transmitted through the post-of
fice, the clerk, to whom it is addressed, must receive it from
the post-office, open it, indorse thereupon, and sign, a like note
of the time of the receipt and opening thereof, and immediate
ly file it in his office.
§ 908. A commission may issue, or an order to take depo
sitions may be made, by consent, in a case where either may
be directed by the court or a judge, as prescribed in this arti
cle. On filing a stipulation to that effect, signed by the attor
neys for the parties, the clerk must enter an order accordingly:
and thereupon the attorney for the party, procuring the order,
may insert in the commission, or indorse upon or annex to it,
or the order, the necessary directions for the execution and re
turn thereof, according to the stipulation.
§ 909. A commission, or copy of an order to take depo
sitions, with the certificates, returns, depositions, and exhibits
thereto annexed, must remain on file in the office of the clerk,
unless otherwise provided by the stipulation of the parties, or
unless the court, by a special order, directs them to oe filed in
the office of another clerk. They are always open to the in
able to maJi lie a^Ttf list jui;?^^;. «'i> A^itk-^ vk\-^.M,4
and lesifvias.
§ 913. L?tiers rneasrrr ibst iv t*s«w>.; *-vc: o :>vr .^' 5^
courts specsSed ia TJ>e iisa >tfv;? cl r. :» ix-r-iw. v.- .< ,\»*
where a cooiniiis*"*! may t* «*?->!M. a> ;»->->\:-NNi ■-< ^,*
article, upon satjsfacsi.rv prvvsf. Vy a^" ;..<,\ -.:. :>.;: :>o-v «
good reason to beJieve, tha: :ho «v?s of ;.xuy \\ ' . N- Ksto»"
promoted tbereby. than by the tsstrn^ v»f « ^wsiNvhsi ; Os^
withstanding that a commissixi i\»n Iv oxo'tiuM. m I ho vs><mt iy
to which they are sent. Letters ro-sralory oaii Iv iv«iovl oivlv
to examine one or more witnesses, nixxt written mlorrtv>!i»
tories, annexed thereto: whioh must 1h> fn>«to«l »»ii mm 1 1^1,
and the depositions must bo lvturued, tts prvswibotl 1« U»tt» article, with respect to the interrogatories annexed to a com
mission, and the depositions taken thereunder.
ARTICLE THIRD.
Depositions, taken within the State, for use without
the State.
§ 914. In what case8 deposition
\ 918. Justice of the peace may
may be taken.
subpoena witness.
915. Subpoena to witness.
919. Taking and return of dep916. Contents of subpoena.
osition.
917. Subpoena when no com920. Penalty for not appearing.
mission is issued.
a l:tnl, con§914. A party to an action, suit, or special proceeding,
sol. Act.
civil or criminal, pending in a court without the State, either
in the United States, or in a foreign country, may obtain, in
the manner prescribed in this article, the testimony of a wifrness within the State, to be used in the action, suit, or special
proceeding.
§ 0 1 5. Where a commission to take testimony, within the
State, has been issued from the court, in which the action, suit,
or special proceeding is pending ; or where a notice has been
given, or any other proceeding has been taken, for the pur
pose of taking the testimony, within the State, pursuant to
the laws of the State or countrv, wherein the court is located,
or pursuant to the laws of the United States if it is a court of
the United States ; the commission, notice, or other paper,
authorizing the testimony to be taken, may be presented, in
behalf of the party desiring to obtain it, to a justice of the
supreme court, or a county judge, with proof, by affidavit,
that the testimony of the witness is material to the party.
The judge must thereupon issue a subpoena to the witness,
commanding him to appear before the commissioner named in
the commission ; or before a commissioner, within the State,
for the State, Territory, or foreign country, in which the
notice was given, or the proceeding taken ; or before the
officer designated in the commission, notice, or other paper,
by his title of office ; at a time and place specified in the
subpoena, to testify in the action, suit, or special proceeding.
§ 916. The place, where the witness is commanded to
attend, must be within the county in which he resides or so
journs ; or, if it is in another county, not more than forty
miles distant from his residence, or the place of his sojourn.
3 1391, Con8 917. [l»'(i 1877.] Where an action, suit, or special
«ol. Act.
proceeding is pending in a court of another State, or of a TerriD Civ. Pro. tory, or of the United States, and proof is made, by affidavit,
l^to the satisfaction of a justice ot the supreme court, or a
county judge, as follows :
1. That a person, residing or sojourning within the State, is
a material witness for either party.
2. That a commission, to take the testimony of the witness,
has not been issued.
8. That, according to the course and practice of the court,
in which the action, suit, or special proceeding is pending, the
deposition of a witness, taken as the one applied for is re
quired to be taken, is authorized to be received in evidence
on the trial or hearing.
The judge must issue a subpoena, commanding the witness
to appear before him, at a specified time, and at a place with
in the county in which the witness resides or sojourns, to
testify in the action, suit, or special proceeding.
§ 918. [Am?d 1877.] "Where proof is made, by affidavit
or otherwise, to the satisfaction of a justice of the peace :
1. That a civil action, suit, or special proceeding is pending
in a court of another State, or of a Territory, or of the United
States.
2. That a person, residing or sojourning in the town or city,
in which the justice resides, is a material witness for either
party.
3. That according to the practice of the court, in which the
action, suit, or special proceeding is pending, the deposition of
a witness, taken as the one applied for is required to be
taken, is authorized to be received in evidence on the trial or
hearing.
The justice must issue a subpoena, commanding the witness
to appear before him, at a specified time, and at a place with
in the town or city, in which the witness resides or sojourns,
to testify in the action, suit or special proceeding.
§ 919. The officer before whom a witness appears, in a
case specified in this article, must take down his testimony in
writing ; and must certify and transmit it to the court, in
which the action, suit, or special proceeding is pending, as the
practice of that court requires,
§ 920. A person, who fails to appear, at the time and
place specified in a subpoena, issued as prescribed in this
article, and duly served upon him ; or to testify ; or to sub
scribe his deposition, when correctly taken down ; is liable to
the penalties, which would be incurred in a like case, if he was
subpceuaed to attend the trial of an action in a justice's court"
and, for that purpose, the officer, before whom he is required
to appear, possesses all the powers of a justice of the peace
upon a trial.
§ 921. Where the officer, to whom the legal custody of a
Ea'per belongs, certifies, under his hand and official seal, that
e has made diligent examination, in his office, for the paper,
and that it cannot be found, the certificate is presumptive
evidence of the facts so certified, as if the officer personally
testified to the same
§ 922. Where a public officer is required or authorized,
by special provision of law, to make a certificate or an affi
davit, touching an act performed by him, or to a fact ascer
tained by him, in the course of his official duty ; and to file or
deposit it in a public office of the State ; the certificate or
affidavit, so filed or deposited, or an exemplified copy there
of, is presumptive evidence of the facts therein alleged, ex
cept where the effect thereof is declared or regulated, by
special provision of law.
2W s'upp
§ °23, LAm,d 1877-] The certificate of a notary public of
65s!
the State, under his hand and seal of office, of the present18N.Y.8tate ment by him, for acceptance or payment, or of the protest,
Rep. 1013.
for non-acceptance or non-payment; of a promissory note or
bill of exchange, or of the service ot notice thereof on a party
to the note or bill ; specifying the mode of giving the notice,
the reputed place of residence of the party to whom it was
given, and the post-office nearest thereto ; is presumptive
evidence of the facts certified, unless the party, against whom
it is offered, has served upon the adverse party, with his
pleading, or, within ten days after joinder of an issue of fact,
an original affidavit, to the effect, that he has not received
notice of non-acceptance, or of non-payment of the note or
bill. A verified answer is not sufficient as an affidavit, within
the meaning of this section.
§ 924. In case of the death or insanity of a notary public
of the State, or of his absence or removal, so that his personal
attendance, or his testimony, cannot be procured, in any
mode prescribed by law, his original protest, under his hand
and official seal, the genuineness thereof being first duly
proved, is presumptive evidence of a demand of acceptance,
or of payment, therein stated ; and a note or memorandum,
personally made or signed by him, at the foot of a protest, or
in a regular register of official acts, kept by him, is presump
tive evidence that a notice of non-acceptance or non-payment
was sent or delivered, at the time, and in the manner, stated
in the note or memorandum.
§ 925. Proof of the presentment, for acceptance or pay
ment, of a promissory note or bill of exchange, payable in
another State, or in a Territory, or foreign country, or of a
protest of the note or bill, for non-acceptance, or non-payment,
or of the service of notice thereof, on a party to the note or
bill, may be made, in any manner authorized by the laws of
the State, Territory, or county, where it was payable.
§ 926. [Im'd 1877.] The affidavit of the printer or pub
lisher of a newspaper, published within the State, or of his
foreman or principal clerk, showing the publication of a notice
or other advertisement, authorized or required, by a law of
the State, to be published in that newspaper, annexed to a
printed copy of the notice or other advertisement, may be
read in evidence ; and is presumptive evidence of the publi
cation, and, also, of the matters stated therein, showing that
the deponent is authorized to make the affidavit. But this
section does not apply to a case, where the affidavit is re
quired by law to be filed, unless it has been duly filed ; or to a
case, where the mode of proving a publication is otherwise
specially prescribed by law.
§ 927. Where it is necessary, upon the trial of an action,
to prove the service of a notice, an affidavit, showing the ser
vice to have been made by the person making the affidavit, is
presumptive evidence of the service, upon first proving that
he is dead or insane, or that his personal attendance cannot
be compelled, with due diligence.
§ 928. [ArrCd 1879.] An original certificate of a marriage,
within the State, made by the minister or magistrate by whom
it was solemnized ; the original entry thereof, made, pursuant
to law, in the office of the clerk of a city or town within the
State ; or a copy of the certificate, or of the entry, duly certi
fied, is presumptive evidence of the marriage.
§ 929. Where a party wishes to prove an act or trans
action of a foreign corporation, the book or books of the
corporation may be used for that purpose, as presumptive
evidence, whether any or all of the parties are or are not
members of the corporation.
§ 930. If an original book is not produced at the trial, as
prescribed in the last section, a copy thereof, or of an entry
therein, verified as prescribed in the next section, may be
used, with like effect as the original book ; provided that the
f>arty, intending to use the copy, gives the adverse party at
east ten days' notice of his intention, specifying briefly the
nature of the evidence proposed to be given. But this and
the next section do not apply, where the foreign corporation
is a party to the action, and seeks to prove its own act or
transaction, In its own behalf.
§ 931. The copy must be verified by the deposition, taken
as prescribed by law, or the oral testimony, taken at the trial,
of the person who made it, or of a person who has examined
and compared it with the original book, or the entry therein.
The witness must testify that the copy produced is correct ;
that he made it, or compared it with the original ; and that
he then knew that the original book so copied, or containing
the entry, was the book of the corporation : or that it was
then acknowledged to him to be such, by an officer or receiver
of the corporation, or a person having the custody thereof,
naming the person who made the acknowledgment ; and he
must specify where, and in whose custody, the original was
then kept.
§ 932. [Am'd 1877.] A statute or joint resolution, passed
bythe Legislature of the State, maybe read in evidence from
a newspaper, designated as prescribed by law, to publish the
same, until six months after the close of the sossion at which
it was passed ; and at any time, from a volume printed under
he direction of the Secretary of State.
§ 933. [Am'd 1879.] A copy of a paper filed, kept, enRep. 921.
tered, or recorded, pursuant to law, in a public office of the
State, the officer having charge of which has, pursuant to law,
an official seal ; or with the clerk of a court of the State, or
with the clerk or secretary of either house of the Legislature,
or of any otner public body or public board, created by au
thority of a law of the State, and having, pursuant to law, a
seal ; or a transcript from a record kept pursuant to law, in
such a public office or by such a clerk or secretary, is evi
dence, as if the original was produced. But, to entitle it to be
used in evidence, it must be certified by the clerk of the court,
under his hand and the seal of the court, or by the officer hav
ing the custody of the original, or his deputy or clerk, appoint
ed pursuant to law, under his official seal, and the hand of the
person certifying ; or by the presiding officer, secretary, or
clerk of the public body or board, appointed pursuant to law,
under his hand, and except where it is certified by the clerk
or secretary of either house of the Legislature, under the of
ficial seal of the body or board.
§ 934. A copy of a paper filed, pursuant to law, in the
office of a town clerk, or a transcript from a record kept
therein, pursuant to law, certified by the town clerk, is evi
dence, with like effect as the original
§ 935. A conveyance, acknowledged or proved, and cer
121N.Y.477. tified in the manner prescribed by law, to entitle it to be re
corded in the county where it is offered, is evidence, without
further proof thereof. Except as otherwise specially pre
scribed by law, the record of a conveyance, duly recorded,
within the State, or a transcript thereof, duly certified, is evi
dence, with like effect as the original conveyance.
N„
§ 938. The certificate of the acknowledgment, or of the
• • "" proof of a conveyance, or the record, or the transcript of the
record, of such a conveyance, is not conclusive ; and it may
be rebutted, and the effect thereof may be contested, by a
party affected thereby. If it appears that the proof was
taken upon the oath of an interested or incompetent witness,
the conveyance, or the record or transcript thereof, shall not
be received in evidence, until its execution is established by
other competent proof.
§ 937. Any instrument, except a promissory note, a bill
of exchange, or a last will, may be acknowledged, or proved,
and certified, in the manner prescribed by law for taking and
certifying the acknowledgement or proof of a conveyance of
real property ; and thereupon it is evidence, as if it was a
conveyance of real property.
. § 638,. The docket-book of a justice of the peace, within
the State, or a transcript thereof, certified by him, is evidence
before him, of any matter required by law to be entered by
him therein.
§ 939. A transcript from the docket-book of a justice of
the peace, within the State, subscribed by him, and authenti
cated, by a certificate of the clerk of the county in which the
justice resides, under his hand and official seal, to the effect,
that the person, subscribing the transcript, was, at the date
of the judgment therein mentioned, a justice of the peace of
that county ; and that the clerk is acquainted with his hand
writing, and verily believes that the signature to the transcript is genuine ; is evidence of any matter stated In the
transcript, which is required by law to* entered by the justice
in his docket-book.
§ 040. [Amid 1877.] The proceedings in an action brought,
or a special proceeding instituted, before a justice of the
peace, within the State, may also be proved by the oath of the
justice. In case of his death or absence, they may be proved
by the original minutes of the proceedings, Kept by him, pur
suant to law, accompanied with proof of his handwriting ; or
by a copy of the minutes, sworn to, by a competent witness,
as having been compared with the original entries, with proof
that those entries were in the handwriting of the justice.
§ 941. lAm'd 1877.] An act, ordinance, resolution, by
law, rule or proceeding of the common council of a city, or
of the board of trustees of an incorporated village, or of a
board of supervisors, within the State, may be read in evi
dence, either from a copy thereof, certified by the city clerk,
village clerk, clerk of the common council, or clerk of the
board of supervisors ; or from a volume printed by authority
of the common council of the city, or the Doard of trustees of
the village, or the board of supervisors.
g 942. A printed copy of a statute, or other written law,
of another State, or of a Territory, orof a foreign country, or a
printed copy of a proclamation, edict, decree, or ordinance, by
the executive power thereof, contained in a book or publica
tion, purporting or proved to have been published by the
authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted, as
evidence of the existing law, in the judicial tribunals thereof,
is presumptive evidence of the statute, law, proclamation,
edict, decree, or ordinance. The unwritten or common law of
another State, or of a Territory, or of a foreign country, may
be proved, as a fact, by oral ev idence. The books of reports
of cases, adjudged in the courts thereof, must also be admit
ted, as presumptive evidence of the unwritten or common law
thereof.
g 043. A copy of the record, or any other proceeding, of
a court of the United States, is evidence, when certified by
the clerk or offleer, in whose custody it is required by law to
be.
§ 944. [Am'd 1877, 1879.] A copy of a record or other
paper, remaining in a department of the government of the
United States, is evidence, when certified by the head, or ac
ting chief officer, for the time being, of that department ; or
when certified by the officer in whose charge it is, pursuant to
a statute of the U nited States or otherwise in accordance with
a statute of the United States, relating to certifying the same.
The record of the observations of the weather, taken under
the direction of the signal service of the United States, when
certified by the officer in charge thereof, at the place where
they were taken and are kept, is presumptive evidence of the
matters of fact stated therein.
o70
§ 945. The record of a bill of sale, mortgage, hypotheca' ' tion, or conveyance of a vessel, belonging to a port or place,
within the United States, recorded in the office of the collec
tor of customs, where the vessel is registered or enrolled,
which was acknowledged or proved, before it was recorded,
in like manner as a deed to be recorded within the State; or a
transcript of such a record, duly certified by the collector ; is
evidence, with the like effect as the original.
§ 940. A conveyance of real property, situated without
the State, acknowledged, or proved, and certified, in like
manner as a deed to be recorded within the county wherein it
is offered in evidence, is evidence, without further proof
thereof, as if it related to real property situated within the
State. A conveyance of real property, situated within an
other State, or a Territory of the United States, which has
been duly authenticated, according to the laws of that State
or Territory, so as to be read in evidence in the courts thereof,
is evidence in like manner.
§ 947. An exemplification of the record of a conveyance
Of real property situated without the State, and within the
United States, which has been recorded in the State or Terri
tory, where the real property is situated, pursuant to the
laws thereof, when certified under the hand and seal of the of
ficer, having the custody of the record, is, if the original can
not be produced, presumptive evidence of the conveyance,
and of the due execution thereof.
§ 948. A transcript from the docket-book of a justice of
the peace, within an adjoining State, of a judgment rendered
by him ; a transcript of his minutes of the proceedings in the
cause, previous to the judgment ; or of an execution issued
thereon ; or of the return of an execution ; when subscribed
by the justice, and authenticated as prescribed in the next
section, is presumptive evidence of his jurisdiction in the
cause, and of the matters shown by the transcript.
§ 949. Such a transcript must be authenticated by a cer
tificate of the justice, annexed thereto, to the effect, that it is
in all respects correct, and that he had jurisdiction of the
cause ; and also by a certificate of the clerk or prothonotary
of the county, in which the justice resided at the time of ren
dering the judgment, uuder his baud and the seal of the court
of common pleas, or other county court of the county, to the
effect that the person, subscribing the certificate attached to
the transcript, was, at the date or the judgment, a justice of
the peace of that county ; and that the signature thereto is
in his own handwriting.
§ ©50. The judgment and other proceedings, and the jus
tice's authority to render the judgment, may also be proved,
by the production of the docket, or of a copy of a judgment
or other proceedings ; and the oral testimony of the justice, to
the truth and correctness thereof, and to his authority to ren
der the judgment.
§ 951. The last three sections do not prevent the introduc
tion of evidence, to controvert any of the proof, in relation to
the validity of a judgment therein specified.
§ 952. A copy of a record, or other judicial proceeding, of 46 Hun, 469.
a court of a foreign country, is evidence, when authenticated
as follows :
1. By the attestation of the clerk of the court, with the seal
of the court affixed, or of the officer in whose custody the re
cord is legally kept, under the seal of his office.
a. By a certificate of the chief-judge or presiding magistrate
of the court to the effect, that the person, so attesting the re
cord, is the clerk of the court ; or that he is the officer, in
whose custody the record is required by law to be kept ; and
that his signature to the attestation is genuine.
3. By the certificate, under the great or principal seal of
the government, under whose authority the court is held, of
the Secretary of State, or other officer having the custody of
that seal, to the effect, that the court is duly constituted^
specifying generally the nature of its jurisdiction ; and that
the signature of the chief-judge or presiding magistrate, to
the certificate specified in the last subdivision is genuine.
§ 953. A copy of a record, or other judicial proceeding, of 46 Hun, 469.
a court of a foreign country, attested by the seal of the court,
in which it remains, must also be admitted in evidence, upon
due proof of the following^ facts :
1. That the copy offered has been compared by the witness
with the original, and is an exact transcript of the whole of
the original.
2. That the original was, when the copy was made, in the
custody of the clerk of the court, or other officer legally hav
ing charge of it.
3. That the attestation is genuine.
§ 954. [Arri'd 1877.] Nothing in this article is to be con
strued, as declaring the effect of a record or other judicial
proceeding of a foreign country, authenticated, so as to be
evidence.
§ 955. [Repealed 1877.]
§ 956. [Am'd 1877.] A copy of a patent, record or other 95 n.y. 625.
document remaining of record in a public office of a foreign
country, certified according to the form in use in that country,
is evidence when authenticated as follows :
1. By the certificate under the hand and official seal of a
commissioner appointed by the governor to take the proof or
acknowledgment of deeds in that country, to the effect that
the patent, record or document is of record in the public of
fice, and that the copy thereof is correct and certified in due
form.
2. By a certificate under the hand and official seal of the
Secretary of State annexed to that of the commissioner, to
the same effect as prescribed by law for the authentication of
the certificate of such a commissioner upon a conveyance to
be recorded within the State. The certificate of the commissioner, thus authenticated, is presumptive evidence that the
copy of the patent, record or document is certified according
to the form in use in the foreign country.
§ 957. Where a transcript, exemplification, or certified
!>"> N. Y. 624. copy of a record or other paper, is declared by law to be evi46 Hun, 370. <jence, an(i special provision is not made for the form of the
certificate, in the particular case, the person, authorized to
certify, must state, in his certificate, that it has been com
pared by him with the original, and that it is a correct trans
cript therefrom, and of the whole of the original.
93 N. Y. 624.
§ 958. If the officer, or the court, body, or board, in
whose custody an original paper, specified in the last section,
is required to be, by the laws of the State, or of another State,
or of the United States, or of a Territory thereof, or of a
foreign country, has, pursuant to those laws, an official seal,
the certificate must be attested by that seal. If the certificate
is made by the clerk of a county, within the State, it must be
attested by the seal of the county.
§ 959. [Arri'd 1877.] The last section does not require the
seal of a court to be affixed to a certified copy of an order,
or of a paper filed therein, or entry made, where the copy
is used in the same court, or before an officer thereof ; or,
in the supreme court, where it is used in a circuit court, or
a court ofoyer and terminer.
§ 960. lAm'd 1877.] Where a seal of a public officer or
of a corporation is authorized or required by law, it may be
impressed directly on the paper.
§ 961. A surrogate, county clerk, register, clerk of a
court, or other person, having the custody of the records or
other papers in a public office, within the State, must, upon re
quest, and upon payment of, or offer to pay, the fees allowed
by law, or, it no fees are expressly allowed by law, fees at
the rate allowed to a county clerk for a similar service,
diligently search the files, papers, records, and dockets in bis
office ; and either make one or more transcripts therefrom,
and certify to the correctness thereof, and to the search, or
certify that a document or paper, of which the custody legally
belongs to him, cannot be found. If he refuses, or unreason
ably neglects or delays, to make such a search, or to furnish
such a transcript or certificate, or makes a false certificate, he
is guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 962. Nothing in title fourth of this chapter prevents
the proof of a fact, act, record, proceeding, document, or
other paper or writing, according to the rules of the common
law, or by any other competent proof.
§ 004. An issue of law arises only upon a demurrer. An
issue of fact arises, in either of the following cases :
1. Upon a denial, contained in the answer, of a material
allegation of the complaint, or upon an allegation, contained
in the answer, that the defendant has not sufficient knowl
edge or information to form a belief, with respect to a mate
rial allegation of the complaint.
2. Upon a similar denial or allegation, contained in the re
ply, with respect to a material allegation of the answer.
3. Upon a material allegation of new matter, contained in
the answer, not requiring a reply ; unless an issue of law is
joined thereupon.
4. Upon a material allegation of new matter, contained in
the reply ; unless an issue of law is joined thereupon.
§ 965. [Am'd 1879.] An issue, either of law or of fact,
must be tried as prescribed in this chapter, unless it is disposed
of as prescribed in chapter sixth of this act.
§ 966. [Am'd 1877.] Where an issue of law and an issue
of fact arise in one action, the issue of law must be first dis
posed of, except as otherwise prescribed in the next section.
§ 967. [Am'd 1877.] A separate trial, between the plain
tiff and one or more defendants, of some or all of the issues of
fact, or one trial of some or all of the issues of law, or a change
in the order of disposition of the issues, may be directed by
the court, in its discretion. Such a direction may be given,
in an order, made upon notice ; or, except where an applica
tion for such an order has been denied, it may be given, by
the judge holding the term, where those issues are regularly
upon the calendar for trial, either with or without the entry
of an order.
§ 968. [Am'd 1877.] In each of the following actions, an
'ssue °'" ^ac* must be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial is
wa'ved, or a reference is directed :
106 N. Y. 319 ; 109 Id. 202 ; 25 N. Y. State Rep. 52 ; Id. 271 ; 12 N. Y. State
Eep. 512.
1. An action, in which the complaint demands judgment for
a sum of money only.
2. An action of ejectment; for dower; for waste; for a
nuisance ; or to recover a chattel.
§ 969. An issue of law, in any action, and an issue of fact
in an action not specified in the last section, or wherein provision for a trial by a jury is not expressly made by law, must
be tried by the court, unless a reference or a jury trial is di
rected.
§ 970. [Am'd 1877, 1891, amendment to take effect Septem
ber 1, 1891.] Where a party is entitled by the constitution or
by express provision of law, to a trial by a jury, of one or
more issues of fact, in an action not specified in section nine
hundred and sixty-eight of this act, or where one or more
questions arise on the pleadings as to the value of property,
or as to the damages which a party may be entitled to recov
er, either party may apply, upon notice, at any time to the
court for an order directing all snch issues or questions to be
distinctly and plainly stated, for trial accordingly. Upon
the hearing of the application the court must cause such issues
or questions to be distinctly and plainly stated. The subse
quent proceedings are the same as where questions arising
upon the issues are stated for trial by a jury in a case where
neither party can, as of right, require such a trial ; except
that the finding of the jury, upon each issue or question so
stated, is conclusive in the action, unless the verdict is set
, aside or a new trial is granted.
§ 971. [Am'd 1877.] In an action, where a party is not
entitled, as of right, to a trial by a jury, the court may, in its
discretion, upon the application of either party, or without
application, direct that one or more questions of fact, arising
upon the issues, be tried by a jury, and may cause those ques
tions to be distinctly and plainly stated for trial accordingly.
§ 972. [im'il 1877.] If the questions, directed to be tried by a jury, as prescribed in the last two sections, do not embrace all the issues of fact in the action, the remaining issues
of fact must be tried by the court, or by a referee.
§ 973. [Repealed 1877.]
§ 974. [Am'd 1877.] Where the defendant interposes a
counterclaim, and thereupon demands an affirmative judgment against the plaintifff, the mode of trial of an issue of fact,
arising thereupon, is the same, as if it arose in an action,
brought by the defendant, against the plaintifff, for the cause
of action stated in the counterclaim, and demanding the same
judgment.
§ 975. An issue, the disposition of which is not necessary
to enable the court to render the appropriate judgment, is not
required to be tried.
§ 976. An issue of law, or an issue of fact, triable by a
jury or by the court, must be tried at a term held by one
judge only, except as otherwise prescribed in section two hun
dred ninety-seven of this act. In the supreme court, an issue
of fact, triable by a jury, must be tried in the circuit court ;
and an issue of fact, triable by the court, or an issue of law,
may be tried in the circuit court, or at a special term of the
supreme court, as prescribed in the general rules of practice.
§ 977. [Am?d 1877, 1882.] At anytime after the joinder
of issue, and at least fourteen days before the commencement
of the term, either party may serve a notice of trial The
party serving the notice must file with the clerk a note of
issue, stating the title of action, the names of the attorneys,
the time when the last pleading was served, the nature of the
issue, whether of fact or of law ; and if an issue of fact,
whether it is triable by a jury, or by the court, without a
jury. The note of issue must be filed at least twelve days
before the commencement of the term. The clerk must there
upon enter the cause upon the calendar, according to the date
of the issue. The clerk must prepare the calendar and have
the necessary copies ready for distribution at least five days
before the commencement of the term. In the city and county
of New York and in the county of Kings, where a party has
served a notice of trial, and filed a note of issue, for a term,
at which the cause is not tried, it is not necessary for him to
serve a new notice of trial, or file a new note of issue for a
succeeding term ; and the action must remain on the calendar
until it is disposed of.
§ 978. [Am'd 1877.] The issues on the calendar must be
arranged by the clerk, in the following order :
1. Issues of fact.
2. Issues of law.
Where a jury is in attendance, the issues must be disposed
of in the same order ; unless, for the convenience of parties,
or the dispatch of business, tne judge holding the term other
wise directs.
§ 979. Where a jury is not in attendance, issues of law
have a preference over issues of fact ; unless the judge holding
the term otherwise directs.
§ 980. [Arrid 1877.] Either party, who has served the
notice, may bring the issue to trial ; and, in the absence of the
adverse party, unless the judge holding the term, for good
cause, otherwise directs, may proceed with the cause, and
take a dismissal of the complaint, or a verdict, decision, or judgment, as the case requires. An inquest, for want of an
affidavit of merits, cannot be taken where the answer is veri
fied.
§ 98 1 . Where the issue is brought to trial by the plaintifff,
he must furnish the court with copies of the summons and
pleadings, and of the offer, if any has been made. Where the
issue is brought to trial by the defendant, and the plaintifff
does not furnish those papers, they must be furnished by the
defendant.
§ 982. Each of the following actions must be tried in the
county, in which the subject of the action, or some part there
of, is situated : an action of ejectment ; for the partition of
real property ; for dower ; to foreclose a mortgage upon real
property; or upon a chattel real ; to compel the determination
of a claim to real property ; for waste ; for a nuisance ; or
to procure a judgment, directing a conveyance of real prop
erty ; and every other action to recover, or to procure a
judgment, establishing, determining, defining, forfeiting, an
nulling, or otherwise affecting, an estate, right, title, lien, or
other interest, in real property, or a chattel real. But where
all the real property, to which the action relates, is situated
without the State, the action must be tried, as prescribed in
section nine hundred and eighty-four of this act.
§ 983. lAm'd 1877, 1890.] An action for either of the fol
lowing causes, must be tried in the county where the cause of
action, or some part thereof, arose.
1. To recover a penalty or forfeiture, imposed by statute,
except that where the offense, for which it is imposed, was
committed on a lake, river or other stream of water, situated
in two or more counties, the action may be tried in any county
bordering on the lake, river or stream, and opposite to the
place where the offense was committed. But in an action
where the people of the State arc a party to recover a pen
alty for trespass upon the lands of the forest preserve the
action may be tried in a county adjoining the county where
the cause of action arose.
2. Against a public officer, or a person specially ap]x>inted
to execute his duties, for an act done, in virtue of his office, or
for an omission to perform a duty, incident to his office ; or
against a person, who by the command or in the aid of a pub
lic officer, has done anything touching his duties.
3. To recover a chattel distrained, or damages for distrain
ing a chattel.
§ 984. An action, not specified in the last two sections
must be tried in the county, in which one of the parties resided, at the commencement thereof! If Micaer -./ ^>»» ?a.** «» jr-j TJte^
then resided in the State, it may betnrd ja ut 5jmrj jriu^a. *-y c
the plaintifff designates, for that parpnae. m'tae h»k it ac
complaint.
§ 085. If the county, designated is -£■* crjnc.^-an_ w -^»
place of trial, is not the proper county, the aeEjtav Bay **■«withstanding be tried therein : unjevt r.a>»
changed to the proper county, upon -.£»* ■via.*.* : .rf -ju» »*fendant, followed by the consent of tbe ptaaerfE. <*■ t*w --e-a*r
of the court.
§ 983. Where the defendant demac-it -ins tie *E*-» s»»
tried in the proper county, his attorney ara* Krr< «?«« t*e
plaintifff's attorney, with the answer, or be? .*» w i »ce c< tM
answer, a written demand accordinziy. The A
j must
specify the county, where the defendia* rw=.:r~t T*» a<-. r &
to be tried. If the plaintifff's attorney dr<» lr.i fcrr-.» u» w—:ten consent to the change, as propr/seri by tie a/<Muri.
within five days after service of toe demsu^l, lit <fel**>aur. *
attorney may, within ten days thereafter, aer-re nodee c< a
motion to change the place of t rial.
§ 987. The court may, by order, change the peace of tna». j2Hv*.7L
in either of the following cases :
1. Where the county, designated for that porfnae ia tie
complaint, is not the proper county.
2. Where there is reason to believe, that aa unparuai tnal
cannot be had in the proper county.
3. Where the convenience of witnesses, and \w. et»d» of ja»- l* Week.
tice, will be promoted by the change.
tog. mm.
§ 988. [im'd 1877.] Where the place of trial i* chafi/>d
to another county, the subsequent proceeding*, tiu.. be h^f in
the county to which the change Is made, the same a* if it had
been designated in the complaint, astbe place of trial : exoei*t
as otherwise directed by the court, or provided by the writ
ten consent of the parties, filed with the clerk. And the clerk
of the county, from which it is changed, must forthwith de
liver to the clerk of the county, to' which it is changed, all
papers filed in the action, and certified copies of all minutes
and entries relating thereto, which must be hied, entered, or
recorded, as the case requires, in the office of the last-named
clerk. '„. ^ §989. [AmM 1877.] An order to change the place of trial
takes effect, upon the entry thereof, in the office of the clerk
of the county, from which the place of trial is changed. But
for the purposes of the place of hearing a motion to set it
aside, or an appeal therefrom, the place of trial is deemed
unchanged.
§ 990. [AnCd 1879.] An issue of law may be tried in any
county within the judicial district embracing the county
rein the action is triable; but after the trial, the decision.
ill other papers relating to the trial must be filed, and
. judgment rendered must be entered in the last named
county.
§ 991. This article |s applicable to an action in the su
preme court only.
§ 902. An exception may be taken to the ruling of the
court or of a referee, upon a question of law, arising upon the
trial of an issue of fact. Except as prescribed in section one thou
sand one hundred and eighty or this act,' an exception cannot
be taken to a ruling, upon a question of fact. For the pur
poses of this article, a trial by a jury is regarded as continu
ing, until the verdict is rendered.
^ 993. Upon the trial of an issue of fact by a referee, or
by the court, without a jury, a refusal to make any finding
whatever, upon a question of fact, where a request to find
thereupon is seasonably made by either party, or a finding
without any evidence tending to sustain it, is a ruling upon a
question of law, within the meaning of the last section.
§ 994. Where an issue of fact is tried by a referee, or by
the court, without a jury, an exception to a ruling, upon a
question of law, made after the cause is finally submitted
must be taken, by filing a notice of the exception in the clerk's
office, and serving a copy thereof upon the attorney for the
adverse party. The exception may be so taken, at any time
before the expiration of ten days after service, upon the at
torney for the exceptant, of a copy of the decision ot the court,
or report of the referee, and a written notice of the entry of
'udgment thereupon. If the notice of exception is filed before
lie entry of final judgment, it must be inserted in the judg
ment-roll ; if afterwards, it must be annexed to the judgnientroll. In either case, it constitutes apart of the papers, upon
which an appeal from the judgment must be heard.
§ 995. In any other ease, an exception must be taken, at
the time when the ruling is made, unless' it is taken to the
charge given to flic jury ; in which cast-, it must be taken hefore the jury have rendered their verdict. It must, at the
time when it is taken, be reduced to writing by the except
ant, or entered in the minutes.
ij 995. A ruling, to which an exception is taken, as pre1001. Motion for new trial at
general term,when triai
was by courtor referee.
1002. When motion for new
trial to be made at spe
cial term. Restrictions
thereupon.
1003. Application of this article
to trials of specific ques
tions by jury ; special
provisions applicable
thereto.
1004. Motion for new hearing,
after trial of specific
questions by a referee.
1006. Final judgment, etc., not
stayed, Dy motion for a
new trial. Motion may
be heard afterwards.
1006. When exception not to
prejudice motion for
new trial.
1007. Notes of stenographer
may be treated as min
utes of the judge.scribed in the last four section's can be reviewed only upon
an appeal from the judgment, rendered after the trial ; except
in a case, where it is expressly prescribed by law, that a mo
tion for a new trial may be made thereupon.
§ 997. [.4m'(f1877.] Where a party intends to appeal
from si judgment, rendered after the trial of an issue of fact,
or to move for a new trial of such an issue, he must, except as
otherwise prescribed by law, make a case, and procure the
same to be setteled and signed, by the judge or the referee,
by or before whom the action was tried, as prescribed in the
general rules of practice ; or, in case of the death or disability
of the judge or referee, in such manner as the court directs.
The case must contain so much of the evidence, and other pr</ceedings upon the trial, as is material to the questions to be
raised thereby, and also the exceptions taken by the party
making the case. If it afterwards becomes necessary to
separate the exceptions, the separation may be made, and the
exceptions may be stated, with so much or the evidence and
other proceedings, as is material to the questions raised by
them, in a case, prepared and settled, as directed in the gener
al rules of practice ; or, in the absence of directions therein,
by the court, upon motion. It is not necessary to state, in a
case, that a finding upon the facts, or a ruling upon the law,
was made, where the finding or ruling appears, in a referee's
report, or in the decision of the court, upon a trial by the
court, without a jury.

31 Hun, 140.
S3 !*. Y. 3KJ;
S>( Id. 3*8.
37 Hun, 275.
24.VY.SUUe
Kep. 6<2 ; 34
Id. 110.
1SJN.Y.130

§ 998. It is not necessary to make a case, for the purpose
of moving for a new trial, upon the minutes of the judge, who 25 Hun, 156.
presided at a trial by a jury ; or upon an allegation of irregu
larity, or surprise ; or where a party intends to appeal from a
judgment entered upon a referee's report, or a decision of the
court upon a trial, without a jury, and to rely only upon ex
ceptions, taken as prescribed in section nine hundred and
ninety-four of this act.
§ 999. [Am'd 1889.] The judge presiding at a trial by a
jury may, in his discretion, entertain a motion, made upon his
minutes, at the same term, to set aside the verdict, or a direc
tion dismissing the complaint and grant a new trial upon ex
ceptions ; or because the verdict is for excessive or insufficient
damages, or otherwise contrary to the evidence or coutrary
to law. If an appeal is taken from the order made upon the
motion, it must be heard upon a case prepared and settled in
the usual manner.
24N.YJ3tateRep. 360. 123N.T.120.
§ lOOO. [Am'd 1877, 1883.] Upon the application of a
party who has taken one or more exceptions, the judge, pre
siding at a trial by a jury, may in his discretion, at any time
during the same term, direct an order to be entered, that the
exceptions so taken be heard, in the first instance, at the gen
eral term ; and that judgment be suspended in the mean time.
At any time before the hearing of the exceptions, the order
may be revoked, 'or modified, upon notice, in court or out of
court, by the judge who made it ; or it may be set aside for
irregularity, by the court, at any term thereof. Unless it is
so revoked or set aside, the exceptions must be heard upon a
motion for a new trial, which must be decided by the general
term. The motion is deemed to have been made when the order was granted ; and either party may notice it for hear
ing at the general term upon the exceptions.
§ lOOl. Where the decision or report, rendered upon the
^r'a' °' an 'ssue °f fact DJr the court, without a jury, or by a
referee. directs an interlocutory judgment to be entered;
anc^ further proceedings must be taken, before the court, or a
judge thereof, or a referee, before a final judgment can be
entered ; a motion for a new trial, upon one or more exceptions, may be made at the general term, after the entry of
the interlocutory judgment, and before the commencement of
the hearing directed therein. The time within which the
party must except, for that purpose, to a ruliug of law, made,
upon such a trial, by the judge or the referee, after the close
of the testimony, is ten days after service of a copy of the de
cision or report, and notice of the entry of the interlocutory
judgment thereupon.
§ 1002. [Airid 1884, 1890.] In a case not specified in the
last three sections, a motion for a uew trial must in the first
instance be heard and decided at the special term, but where
ik'sf°unded upon an allegation of error in a finding of fact
or rumlS upon the law, made by the judge upon the trial, it
cann°t Be made unless notice therefore be given before the exFiiration of the time within which an appeal can be taken
rom the judgment, and it cannot be heard at a special term
held by another judge unless the judge who presided at the
trial is dead or his term of office has expired, or he is disquali
fied for any reason, or he specifically directs the motion to be
heard before another judge. And a trial by a referee can not
be reviewed by a motion for a new trial founded upon such
an allegation except in a case specified in the last section.
§ 1003. The provisions of this article, relating to the proceedings to review a trial by a jury, are applicable to the
trial, by a jury, of one or more specific questions of fact,
arising upon the issues, in an action triable by the court. But,
except in a case specified in section nine hundred and seventy
of this act, a new trial may be granted, as to some of the
questions so tried, and refused as to the others ; and an error,
in the admission or exclusion of evidence, or in any other rul
ing or direction of the judge, upon the trial, may, in the dis
cretion of the court which reviews it, be disregarded; if that
court is of opinion, that substantial justice does not require
that a new trial should be granted. Where the judge, who
presided at the trial, neither entertains a motion for a new
trial, nor directs exceptions, taken at the trial, to be heard at
the general term, a motion for a new trial can be made only
at the term, whore the motion for final judgment is made, or
the remaining issues of fact are tried, as the case requires.
• § 1004. In an action triable by the court, where a refer
ence has been made, to report upon one or more specific ques
tions of fact, involved in the issue, a motion for a new hearing
may be made at a special term, at any time before the hearing
of a motion for final judgment, or the trial of the remaining
issues of fact. The motion must be made upon affidavits, un
less the court, or a judge thereof, directs a case to be prepar
ed and settled.
§ 1005. The entry of final judgment, and the subsequent
groceedings to collect or otherwise enforce it, are not stayed
y an exception, the preparation or settlement of a case, or a motion for a new trial, unless an order for such a stay is
procured and served : and the entry, collection, or other «*oforcement of a judgment does not prejudice a subsequent
motion for a new trial. Where a new trial is granted, the
court may direct and enforce restitution, as where jud|nu«it
is reversed upon appeal.
§ 1006. The taking of an exeeptkm. upon a trial >«- a
jury, or the statement thereof in a case, as prescril»t*d in tins us X.Y.siat*
article, does not prejudice a motion for a n<-w trial. <m tbr ■*»- r,ti
ground that the verdict was contrary to evidence , but such ISSIK.Y. I2fia motion may be made before or after t.be bearing" of the
exception ; or, in the discretion of the court before wluc-h the
exception is heard, at the time of the hearing.
§ 1007. [Arid 1883, 1384.] The notes of an official steno
grapher, or assistant stenographer, taken at a trial when
written out at length may be treated in the discretion of t he
judge, as minutes of the judge upon the trial for the purp >ses
of this article. When, by provision of law. a justice of the
supreme court of this Slate, by his order, in writing, duly
entered in a county clerk's office in the judicial district i>f said
justice, apportions the stenographer's salary among the sev
eral counties of said judicial district, or requires the duplica
tion of any stenographic notes taken in said judicial district,
no notice of the application for said order shall be adjudged
necessary upon any board of supervisors in said judicial dis
trict, and the liability for compensation for such services
shall be deemed fixed upon the performance of the work.
§ 1008. [Arid 1877.] In an action triable by a jury, if
the parties waive the trial, by a jury, of the issue of fact, the
action must be tried by the court, without a jury ; unless a
reference is directed, in a case prescribed by law. But such
an action, other than to recover damages for breach of a con
tract, cannot be tried by the court, without a jury, unless the
judge, presiding at the term where it is brought on for trial,
assents to such a trial. His refusal so to assent annuls a waiver, made as prescribed in subdivision second, third, or fourth
of the next section.
§ 1009. Ldm'd 1877.] A party may waive his right to the
trial of the issue of fact, by a jury, in any of the following
modes :
1. By failing to appear at the trial.
2. By filing with the clerk a written waiver, signed by the
attorney for the party.
8. By an oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.
4. By moving the trial of the action, without a jury ; or, if
the adverse party so moves it, by failing to claim a trial by
a jury, before the production of any evidence upon the trial.
§ 1010. Upon a trial, by the court, of an issue of fact or
of law, its decision, in writing, must be filed, in the clerk's offlce> w'tuiQ twenty days after the final adjournment of the
term, where the issue was tried. If it is not so filed, either
Party may move, at a special term, for a new trial upon that
ground. If the decision has not been filed, when the motion is
heard, the court must make an order for a new trial, either
absolutely, or unless it is filed, within a time specified in the
order. If an order for a new trial is made, or a contingent or
der for a new trial becomes absolute, the costs of the former
trial abide the event,
§ 1011. lAm'd 1879.] Except in a case specified in the
next section, the whole issue, or any of the issues in an action,
either of fact or of law, must be referred, upon the consent of
the parties, manifested by a written stipulation, signed by
their attorneys, and filed with the clerk. Where the stipula
tion does not name the referee, he may be designated by the
court, on motion of either party. Where the stipulation
names the referee, the clerk must enter an order, of course,
referring the issue or issues for trial, to that person only. If
the referee named in a stipulation refuses to serve, or if a new
trial of an action tried by a referee so named is granted, the
court must appoint another referee, unless the stipulation ex
pressly provides otherwise.
§ 1012. But a reference shall not be made, of course,
upon the consent of the parties, in an action to annul the mar
riage, or for a divorce or a separation ; or an action against a
corporation, to obtain a dissolution thereof, the appointment
of a receiver of its property, or the distribution of its property,
unless it is brought by the Attorney-General ; or an action
wherein a defendant, to be affected by the result of the trial,
is an infant. In a case specified in this section, where the par
ties consent to a reference, the court may, in its discretion,
grant or refuse a reference ; and, where a reference is gran
ted, the court must designate the referee.
§ 1013. The court may, of its own motion, or upon the application of either party, without the consent of the other, <firec* a tr'a'
*'le lssues °* fact, by a referee, where the trial
w'" require the examination of a long account, on either side,
and will not require the decision of difficult questions of law.
In an action, triable by the court, without a jury, a reference
maybe made, as prescribed in this section, to decide the
whole issue, or any of the issues ; or to report the referee's
finding, upon one or more specific questions of fact, involved
in the issue.
§ 1014. Where a reference is made, as prescribed in the last section, to report upon aspecincquestion of fact, involved
in the issue, and the determination of one or more other issues
is necessary, in order to enable the couit to render judgment,
they must be tried, either before or after the tiling of the re
port, as the court directs, and either by a jury, or by the court,
without a jury as the case requires. Where they are tried by
a jury, application for judgment must be made upon the ver
dict and the report.
§ 1015. The court may likewise, of its own motion, or
upon the application of either party, without the consent of the
other, direct a reference to take an account, and report to
the court thereon, either with or without the testimony, after
interlocutory or final judgment, or where it necessary to do
so, for the information of the court; and also to determine
and report upon a question of fact, arising in any stage of the
action, upon a motion, or otherwise, except upon the plead
ings.
§ 1016. A referee, appointed as prescribed in either of
the foregoing sections of this title, must, before proceeding to
hear the testimony, be sworn faithfully and fairly to try the
issues, or to determine the questions referred to hiin, as the
case requires, and to make a just and true report. act.-* rA.r.z
to the best of his understanding. The oath may be adm-n —
tered by an officer specified m section eight hundred and f- r- - two of this act. But where all the parties. whr« interest* * I
be affected by the result, are of age, and present, in p--r--» car
or by attorney, they may expressly waive the refer**-"* ■f-*i.
The waiver may be made by written stipulation, or or-*.-7. If
it is oral, it must be entered in the referee's minutes.
§ 1017. A witness may be subpoenaed to attend '-•-'—»»
referee, appointed as prescribed in either of the fores!»<it/ <+t tionsof this title, to testify, and, in a proper ease, to v- - y
with him a book, document, or other paper, as apt* a V--. - y
the court.
£ 1018. The trial, by a referee, of an t-m? «-.' fi.-r -- '
an issue of law, must be brought on upon !;»•; zsf. •■*■ .. - - - »
ducted in like manner, and the papers *'> be '. .r-: crupon are the same, and are furnished m like ma^vr-* «.* * • '■
the trial is by the court, without a jury. Ti-*r ?-'-•-+■ » . • • ses, upon such a trial, the same power as *.fj*: - >. — • ;■•« ■
adjournments, to preserve order, and to jr.i ■<■ •■+ ....
thereof. Upon the trial of an issue of 1v". *-j» .*-'-•■ • * -' •
cises also the same power as the cosrt. f, ■< ■ <r \ ■■■■■•' • •
to the summons, or to the pleadings : to «■.-<• f.-v-. - ■* i. v.- .of a witness by attachment; and to y.' •-- i •
•' - ' — «
contempt of court, for non-atteisdane*-. or «•' jh*. v» •* ■■■ ■• ,
or to testify. Upon the trial of an i«>-r :i z* <- -,.••■•
ercises the same power as the court, to j>—- - i ;- - '
to plead anew or amend ;'to dinrt u* » ' ■ i > ■<• *■ - '
into twoormore actions; toau«/i *- -•"
* .'.-*■■■ dispose of any question, arising ■j|»«_- ^ ->
*-. '
.
- referred to fiim. The power-*. *><.'- -•- • '....»•'-• exercised in like manner, and .■» *. . - - - -■ i •
• •
ers are exercised by the court, >,->«. * . ■ •.

i)SiT- ***■
j
fc ,,
r j,,-. '
4m.
a> Hu,«3DYiV^j li

^„ ,,

,

..

% 1019. [Jm'dllW.] rp.j.-V-, •■• i ..-".-• •
issue of fact, or an issue of bur. •- *•-.>—- * •--' — -■ *
.....
as prescribed in section o«*e i&j'jux.u'* «-ij
the referee's written report iuj-k -.». •-• *.••..' •»
clerk, or delivered to the aM»vn**r-r ;^- v~-. •/• a- ?■>
within sixty days from the time when the cause or matter is
Anally submitted, otherwise either party may, before it is
filed or delivered, serve a notice upon the attorney for the
adverse party, that he elects to end the reference. In such
a case the action must thenceforth proceed as if the refer
ence had not been directed, and the referee is not entitled to
any fees.
§ 1020. Where the double, treble, or other increased
damages are given by statute, the decision of the court, or the
report of the referee, must specify the sum awarded as
single damages, and direct judgment for the increased dam
ages.
§ 1021. [Am'd 1879.] The decision of the court, or the
24N.Y.State
Rep. 824.
report of a referee, upon the trial of a demurrer, must direct
53 Hun, 82. the final or interlocutory judgment to be entered thereupon.
Where it directs an interlocutory judgment, with leave to the
party in fault to plead anew or amend, or permitting the
action to be divided into two or more actions, and no other
issue remains to be disposed of, it may also direct the final
judgment to be entered if the party in fault fails to comply
with any of the directions given or terms imposed.
§ 1022. [4m'd 1877.] The decision of the court, or the
report of the referee, upon the trial of the whole issue of fact,
must state separately the facts found, and the conclusions of
law ; and it must direct the judgment, to be entered there
upon. In an action where the costs are in the discretion of
the court, the decision or report must award or deny costs ;
and, if it awards costs, it must designate the party to whom
costs, to be taxed, are awarded.

4Redf.389.
25 Hun, 310.
G(> How. Pr.
171.
32 Hun, 429.
2 Dem. 229.
82 N. Y. 449;
Ofi Id. 642.
3N.Y.8upp.
154.
1I0N.Y.429.
2HN.Y.SIate
Rep. 803; 31
Id. 77(1.
122 N.Y. 449.

§ 1023. Before the cause is finally submitted to the court
or the referee, or within such time afterwards, and before the
decision or report is rendered, as the court or referee allows,
the attorney for either party may submit, in writing, a state
ment of the facts, which he deems established by the evi
dence, and of the rulings upon questions of law, which he
desires the court or the referee to make. The statement must
be in- the form of distinct propositions of law, or of fact, or
both, separately stated ; each of which must be numbered,
and so prepared, with respect to its length, and the subject
and phraseology thereof, that the court or referee may con
veniently pass upon it. At or before the time, when the de
cision or report is rendered, the court or the referee must
note, in the margin of the statement, the manner in which
each proposition has been disposed of, and must either file, or
return to the attorney, the statement thus noted ; but an omis
sion so to do does not affect the validity of the decision or re
port.
§ 1024. A referee, appointed by the court, must be free
from all just objections ; and no person shall be so appointed,
to whom all the parties object, except in an action to annul a
marriage, or for a divorce, or a separation. A judge cannot
be appointed a referee, in an action brought in the court, of
which he is a judge, except by the written consent of the
parties ; and in that case he cannot receive any compensation
as referee.
§ 1025. Where the court is authorized to appoint a ref
eree, it may, in its discretion, appoint either one or three,
And where a reference is made by consent of the parties,
they may select any number of referees, not exceeding five.
§ 1026. Where the reference is to more than one referee,
all must meet together, and hear all the allegations and
proofs of the parties ; but a majority may appoint a time
and place for the trial, decide any question which arises upon
the trial, sign a report, or settle a case. Either of them may
administer an oath to a witness ; and a majority of those
present, at a time and place appointed for the trial, may ad
journ the trial to a future day.
Tried jurors, except in New York and Kings counties : mode
of selecting them, and ofprocuring their attendance.
Article 1. Qualifications and exemptions of trial jurors.
2. Mode of selecting, drawing, and procuring the attendance
of trial jurors, in ordinary cates.
3. Mode of striking and procuring a special jury, and of pro
curing a foreign jury.
4. Penalties for non-attendance.
§ 1027. In order to be qualified to serve, as a trial juror,
in a court of record, a person must be :
1. A male citizen of the United States, and a resident of the
county.
2. Not less than twenty-one, or more than sixty years of
age.
3. Assessed, for personal property, belonging to him, in his
own right, to the amount of two hundred and fifty dollars • or
the owner of a freehold estate in real property, situated in
the county, belonging to him in his own right, of the value of
one hundred and fifty dollars ; or the husband of a woman
who is the owner of a like freehold estate, belonging to her, in
her own right.
4. In the possession of his natural faculties, and not infirm
or decrepit.
5. Free from all legal exceptions ; of fair character ; of ap
proved integrity ; of sound judgment ; and well informed.
§ 1 028. But a person who was assessed, on the last assess
ment-roll of the town, for land in his possession, held under a
contract for the purchase thereof, upon which improvements,
owned by him, have been made, to the value of one hundred
and fifty dollars, is qualified to serve as a trial juror, although
he does not possess either of the qualifications specified in sub
division third of the last section, if he is qualified in every
other respect.
§ 1020. Each of the following officers is disqualifiedI tO
to J*?
serve as a trial juror :
1. The Governor ; the Lieutenant-Governor ; the Governor's
private secretary.
2. The Secretary of State ; the Comptroller ; the State
Treasurer ; the Attorney-General ; the State Engineer and
Surveyor ; a Canal Commissioner ; an Inspector of State Pris
ons ; a Canal Appraiser ; the Superintendant of Public In
struction ; the Superintendent of the Bank Department ; the
Superintendent of the Insurance Department ; and the deputy
of each officer, specified in this subdivision.
3. A member of the Legislature, during the session of the
house, of which he is a member.
4. A judge of a court of record, or a surrogate.
5. A sheriff, under-sheriff, or deputy-sheriff.
6. The clerk or deputy-clerk of a court of record
§ 1030. [Am'd 1879, 1883, 1890.] Each of the following
persons, although qualified, is entitled to exemption from ser
vice as a trial juror, upon his claiming exemption therefrom :
1. A clergyman, or a minister of any religion officiating as
such, and not following any other calling.
2. A resident officer of, or an attendant, assistant, teacher,
or other person actually employed in a State asylum for luna
tics, idiots or habitual drunkards.
3. The agent or warden of a State prison, the keeper of a
county jailj or a person actually employed in a State prison
or county jail.
4. A practicing physician or surgeon, having patients re
quiring his daily professional attention, and a licensed phar
macist actually engaged in his profession as a means of liveli
hood.
5. An attorney or counselor at law regularly engaged in the
practice of the law as a means of livelihood.
6. A professor or teacher in a college or academy.
7. A person actually employed in a glass, cotton, linen,
woolen or iron manufacturing company, by the year, month
or season.
8. A superintendent, engineer, or collector on a canal, auth
orized by the law of the State, which is actually construct
ed and navigated.
9. A master engineer, assistant engineer, or fireman, actu
ally employed upon a steam vessel, making regular trips.
10. A superintendent, conductor, or engineer, employed by
a railroad company, other than a street railroad company, or
an operator or assistant operator, employed by a telegraph
company, who is actually doing duty in an office, or along the
railroad or telegraph line of the company, by which he is em
ployed.
11. An officer, non-commissioned officer, musician or private
of the national guard of the State, performing military duty,
or a person wno has been honorably discharged from the
national guard, after five years service in either capacity.
12. A person who has been honorably discharged from the
military forces of the State, after seven years faithful service
therein. But in order to entitle a person to exemption, under
this subdivision, his service must have been performed before
the twenty-third day of April, eighteen hundred and sixtytwo, either as a general or staff-officer, or as an officer, non
commissioned officer, musician or private in a uniformed bat
talion, company or troop of the militia of the State, and
armed, uniformed and equipped according to law; or a por
tion thereof, during that period and in that capacity, and the remainder since the twenty-third day of April, eighteen hun
dred and sixty-two, as a member of the national guard of the
State.
13. A member of a fire company or Are department duly
organized according to law of the State and performing Ins
duties therein ; or a person who, after faithfully serving five
successive years in such a fire company or lire department,
has been honorably discharged therefrom.
14. A duly licensed engineer of steam boilers, actually em
ployed as such.
15. A person otherwise specially exempted by law.
§ 1031. [Am'd 1886.] The evidence of the right to ex
emption as prescribed in the last section is as follows :
1. Under subdivision second thereof, the certificate of the
superintendent or other principal officer of the asylum.
2. Under subdivision third thereof, the certificate of the
warden or other principal officer of the State prison, or the
sheriff of the county, as the case requires.
3. Under subdivision eleventh thereof, where the applicant
is a non-commissioned officer, musician or private in a com
pany or troop of the national guard , the certificate of the
commanding officer of the company or troop, accompanied
with proof by affidavit of the genuineness of the signature
thereto.
4. Under the last clause of subdivision eleventh, or under
subdivision twelfth thereof, in the discretion of the court, the
discharge of the person from military service, if it shows the
facts entitling him to exemption.
5. Under the first clause of subdivision thirteenth thereof,
where the applicant is under the rank of foreman, the certifi
cate of the foreman, or other chief officer of the company to
which the applicant belongs, accompanied with pnxjf, by affi
davit, of the genuineness of the signature thereof.
6. Under the last clause of subdivision thirteenth thereof,
the certificate of the chief engineer of the fire department of
the city or village where the service was performed, or of the
mayor or president of the city or village, accompanied with
proof, by affidavit or acknowledgment, of the genuineness of
the signature thereof, which certificate, so proved, accom
panied by a notice indorsed thereon that the applicant claims
exemption from jury duty for a period specified therein, may
be filed in the office of the clerk of the county where such ap
plicant resides. From the date of such filing such applicant
shall not be liable to perform any jury duty in the county
where such certificate and notice are filed during the period
specified in such notice ; and the county clerk shall thereupon
erase the name of such applicant from the jury lists, and de
stroy the ballot before drawing another jury. A certificate
specified in subdivisions one, two, three and five of this sec
tion must be dated within three months prior to the time of
presenting it and filed with the clerk of the court to which it
is presented. In case the certificate and not ice provided for
in subdivision six of this section is not filed as therein pro
vided the applicant shall not be entitled to exempt ion for any
cause specified in the last clause of subdivision thirteen of
section one thousand and thirty of this act.
§ 1032. The court must discharge a poison from serving 2'. N.Y.State
as a trial juror, in either of the following cases :
Kep. 40.
1. Where it satisfactorily appears that he is not qualified.
2. Where it satisfactorily appeal's that he is exempt, and he
claims the benefit of the exemption.
"Where a person is discharged, for either of the causes speci
fied in this section, the clerk must destroy the ballot, contain
ing his name.
§ 1C33. Upon satisfactory proof of the facts, a court, at
the term to which a person is returned as a trial juror, must
excuse him from serving during the whole, or a portion of the
term, in either of the following cases :
1. Where he is a justice of the peace, or executes any other
civil office, the duties of which are, at the time, inconsistent
with his attendance as a juror.
2. Where he is a teacher in a school, actually employed and
serving as such.
3. Where, for any other reason, the interests of the public,
or of the juror, will be materially injured by his attendance ;
or his own health, or the health of a member of his family,
requires his absence ; or he is temporarily incapacitated, for
any reason, from properly discharging the duties of a juror.
Where a person is execused, in either of the cases specified
in this section, the ballot, containing his name, must be re
turned to the box from which it was taken.
§ 1 034. Section ten hundred and twenty-nine of this act
applies throughout the State. The remainder of this article
does not apply to the city and county of New York, or the
county of Kings.
§ 1035. The supervisor, town clerk and assessors of each
town, must meet on the first Monday of July, in the year one
thousand eight hundred and seventy-eight, and in each third
year thereafter, at a place within the town, appoint.* I by the
supervisor ; or, in case of his absence, or of a vacancy in his
office, by the town clerk ; for the pur)>ose of making a list of
persons to serve as trial jurors, for the then ensuing three
years. If they fail to meet, on the day specified in this sec
tion, they must meet as soon thereafter, as practicable.
§ 1036. [Am'd 1877.] At the meeting, specified in the
last section, the officers present must select, from the last
assessment-roll of the town, and make a list of, the names of
all persons, whom they believe to be qualified to serve as trial
jurors, as prescribed in the last article.
§ 1037. Duplicate lists of the names of the persons so
selected, showing the place of residence, and other proper ad
ditions, of each of them, as far as those particulars can be
conveniently ascertained, must be made out, and signed by
the officei s, or a majority of them. Within ten days after the
meeting, one of the lists must be transmitted, by those of
ficers, to the county clerk, and filed by him ; and the other
must be filed with the town clerk.
§ 1038. On the first Monday of August, after the lists
have been transmitted to him, the county clerk must prepare
suitable ballots, by writing the name of each person thus
selected, as contained in the lists, with his place ot residence,
and other additions on a separate piece of paper. The bal
lots must be uniform, as nearly as may be, in appearance ;
and the clerk must deposit them in the box, kept for that pur
pose.
§ 1039. [Am'd 1880.] Before depositing the ballots the
county clerk must destroy each ballot remaining in either of
the boxes kept by him and containing the name of a resident
of a town for which a new list has beeu transmitted. If for
any reason the list from a town is not received by the county
clerk by the first Monday of August, he shall give immediate
notice thereof to the town clerk, and it must be transmitted
as soon thereafter as practicable ; and if after the same is re
ceived by the county clerk it has been or shall be lost or des
troyed, he must forthwith give notice thereof to the town
clerk, and a copy of the duplicate list on file in the town
clerk's office, certified by him to be correct, or if that dupli
cate is also lost or destroyed, or cannot be found, a new list
to be made forthwith, as prescribed for making the original
list, must be transmitted to the county clerk as soon there
after as practicable ; and the county clerk must prepare new
ballots, and destroy the old ballots, containing the names of
residents of that town immediately after the receipt by him
of the list therefrom.
§ 1040. Each person, whose name is contained in a list,
so transmitted, must, unless he is excused or discharged,
serve, as a trial juror, for three years from the first Monday
of August of that year, and thereafter until another list, from
his town, is received and filed.
§ 1041. [Am'd 1877, 1881.] Each ward of the city of 92 N.Y. 128.
Utica is considered a town for the purposes of this article ;
and the supervisor and assessor of that ward must execute
the duties of the supervisor, town clerk, and assessors of a town, as prescribed in the foregoing sections of this article,
except that a duplicate of the list of jurors made by them
must be liled in the office of the clerk of the city. In tie city
of Albany the recorder of said city shall perform the duties
imposed by this title upon the supervisor, town clerk and
assessors of towns. In Albany county, grand jurors shall
hereafter be drawn from the box containing the names of petit
jurors selected for said county in the same manner as petit
jurors, and hereafter no separate list of grand jurors shall be
prepared for said county. In each of the other cities of the
State the like duties must be performed by the officers, and
in the manner prescribed by law. A city, wherein two or
more assessors are elected for the entire city, is considered a
town for the purposes of this article, except where the officers
who are to perform the duties of the supervisor, town clerk or
assessor, as prescribed in this article, are specially designated
by law.
§ 1042. On a day, designated by the county clerk, not
less than fourteen, nor more than twenty days, before the
day appointed for holding each term of the circuit court ; or
of the court of oyer and terminer, where a circuit coirt is not
appointed to be held at the same time ; or of the couity court,
except a term designated for the hearing and decision of mo
tions, and trial and other proceedings, without a jury ; or of
the court of sessions, where a term of the county coart is not
appointed to be held at the same time ; or of a mayor's or
recorder's court, at which issues are triable by a jury ; or on
the day to which the drawing is adjourned, as prescribed in
section one thousand and forty-five of this act, the clerk of
the county, in which the term is to be held, must draw tie names
of thirty-six persons, and any additional number, ordered ac
cording to law, to serve as trial jurors at the term.
§ 1 043. At least six days before the drawing, the county
clerk must publish a notice thereof, in a newspaper published
in the county, if there is one ; or, if there is none, he mist affix
a notice thereof, on the outer door of the building, waere the
term, for which the jurors are to be drawn, is appointed to be
held. He must also, at least three days before the time ap
pointed for the drawing, cause notice thereof to be served
upon the sheriff of the county, and upon the county judge, or
in case of his absence, upon the special county judge, cr, in a.
county where there is no special county judge, upon a ,ustice
of sessions.
§ 1044. At the time so appointed, the sheriff of the
county, or his under-sheriff, and the county judge, or, if notice
has been served upon another officer, in the absence of the
latter, as prescribed in the last section, either the county
judge, or that officer, or both, must attend at the clerk's offlce
of the county, to witness the drawing of the jurors.
§ 1045. If the sheriff or under-sheriff, and either the
county judge, or, in a case specified in the last section, an
officer in place of the county judge, do not appear, the clerk
must adjourn the drawing of the jurors to the next day.
Thereupon, the clerk must forthwith cause to be served upon
the absent sheriff or county judge, or two or more justices of
the peace of the county, notice to attend the drawing on the
adjourned day.
fl046. If the sheriff or under-sheriff, and the county
ge, or if the sheriff, under-sheriff, or county judge, to Tether with two justices of the peace of the county, appear at
the adjourned day. but not otherwise, the clerk must, pro
ceed, in the presence of the officers so appearing, to draw the
jurors.
§ J.047. The drawing must be conducted as follows :
1. Tie clerk must shake the box containing the ballots, so as
thoroughly to mix them.
2. He must then, without seeing the name contained in any
ballot, publicly draw out of the box one ballot ; and continue
to drav, in like manner, one ballot at u time, until the re
quisite lumber has been drawn.
4. A uinute of the drawing must be kept, by one of the at
tending officers, in which must be entered the name contained
in each ballot drawn, before another ballot is drawn.
4. If, after drawing the requisite number, the name of a
person las been drawn, who is dead, or insane, or who has
permanently removed from the county, to the knowledge of
an atteniing officer, an entry of that fact must be made in the
minuted the drawing, and the ballot, containing that peron's name, must be destroyed. Whereupon, another ballot
must be Irawn, in its place, and the name contained therein
must be entered, in like manner, in the minute of the drawing.
5. The same proceedings must be had, as often as necessary,
until therequisite number of jurors has been obtained.
6. The minute of the drawing must then be signed by the
clerk, an! the other attending officers, and filed in the clerk's
office.
7. A 1st of the names of the persons so drawn, showing
the placi of residence, and other proper additions, of each of
them, ard specifying for what court and term they were
drawn must be made and certified by the clerk, and the
other .ttending officers, and delivered to the sheriff of the
county
§ 1048. The sheriff must, at least six days before the day
appointed for holding the term, serve, upon each person nam
ed in the list, personally, or by leaving it at his residence,
with : person of proper age and discretion, a written notice
to atend the term. He must file the list with the clerk of the
court at or before the opening of the term ; with a return, in
dorse! thereupon, or annexed thereto, under his hand, nam
ing ech person notified, and specifying the manner in which
he w3 notified.
§ D49. The county clerk, or the sheriff, must furnish a
copy >f the list of trial jurors, drawn to attend a term, to any
persa applying to him therefore, and paying the fees allowed
by lav.
§ 1.050. After the adjournment of the term, at which
triajjurors have been returned, as prescribed in the last sectia but one, the clerk must deposit the ballots, containing the
naies of those who attended and served, in another box,
ket by him. The ballots, containing the names of those who
dhnot appear and serve, which have not been destroyed, as
prscribed in article first of this title, must be returned to the
bo from which they were taken.
1051. If, at the time of drawing trial jurors for a term,
thre is not a sufficient number of ballots remaining in the
flrt box, the clerk, after drawing all the ballots therein,
m«t draw the necessary number from the secoud box, containing the names of those jurors who have before served, as
prescribed in the last section ; and must continue to draw
from that box, until new lists of jurors are transmitted ly the
town officers.
§ 1052. The county clerk must keep, in addition ;o the
two boxes specified in the last two sections, a third Vox, iu
which he must deposit duplicate ballots, containing theaames,
with the proper additions, of all persons, selected ind re
turned as trial jurors, who reside in the city or town, vhere a
trial term of a court of record is appointed to be hell, pur
suant to law.
§ 1053. The ballots, kept in the third box, must be de
stroyed by the clerk, and new ballots must be deposited there
in by him, at the same time, and under like circumstances, as
prescribed in this article, with respect to the destrjetion of
the old ballots, and the depositing of new ballots, in;he first
box.
§ 1054. If a sufficient number of trial jurors, duy drawn
and notified, do not attend or cannot be obtained, t> form a
jury, the court may, in its discretion, direct the heriff to
draw from the third box, in the presence of the ourt, the
names of as many persons, as the court deems suficient for
that purpose.
§ 1055. The sheriff must forthwith notify each >erson so
drawn, and make a return, as prescribed in title fifh of this
chapter, where talesmen are required to attend ; ani the pro
visions of that title apply to each person so notified.
§ 1050. A justice of the supreme court, appointd to hold
a term of the circuit court, or to preside at a term of be court
of oyer and terminer, may, by an order under his hard direct
that such a number of jurors, as he deems necessary, lot ex
ceeding twenty-four, be drawn for that term, iu adction to
the thirty-six jurors, to be drawn as prescribed in te fore
going sections of this article. A county judge maj in like
manner, direct the drawing of a like additional nunber of
jurors, for a term of the county court, or of the cour, >f ses
sions, to be held in his county.
§ 1057. An order, made as prescribed in the last setion,
must be delivered to the clerk of the county, in whia the
term is to be held, at least twenty days before the (ly ap
pointed for the commencement thereof ; and the clerlmust
forthwith file it. This article applies to the additional ;rors,
so required to be drawn.
§ 1058. At a term of the circuit court, or court ooyer
and terminer, or of the county court, or court of sessios, an
order may be made by the court, requiring the clerk c the
county to draw, and the sheriff to notify, any number otrial
jurors, specified in the order, which the court deems tttessary, to attend that term, or a term thereafter to be lyd,
either by original appointment or by adjournment, at the comencement thereof, or on a particular day, specified in 10
order.
§ 1059. The clerk must thereupon forthwith bring to
court, all the boxes, wherein ballots, containing the name >f
trial jurors are deposited, as prescribed in this article ; id
must, in the presence of the court, publicly draw from si
box or boxes as the court directs, the number of trial jurs specified in the order. The clerk must ma.ce and certify two
lists of the persons so drawn ; and must file one list in his
office, and deliver the other to the sheriff. The sheriff must
thereupon immediately notify each person so drawn, to at
tend, as specified in the order:
§ 1O0O. The county judge may, at the time of drawing
trial jurors to attend a term of the county court, or court of
sessions, make an order, designating a particular day, during
the term, when the jurors must attend, or two or more parti
cular days, upon each of which a portion of the jurors must
attend. The sheriff must thereupon notify them to attend, as
specified in the order.
§ 1061. The deputy county clerk possesses, in the absence
of the county clerk from his office, or from the sitting of a
term of the court, the powers conferred by this article upon
the county clerk.
§ 1062. This article does not apply to the city and county
of New York, or to the county of Kings.
§ 10Q3. Where it appears to the court, that a fair and
impartial trial of an issue of fact, triable by a jury, joined in
an action, pending in the supreme court, or in a superior city
court, cannot be had without a struck jury, or that the im
portance or intricacy of the case requires such a jury, the
court must make an order, upon notice, directing a special
jury to be struck, for the trial of the issue. The order must
specify the term, and it may specify a particular day in the
term, when the jurors must attend.
§ 1064. Unless the order specifies, or directs the officer,
who is to strike the jury, to fix a time for the parties to at
tend, the party obtaining it must give at least eight days'
notice of the time, when Tie will attend, before the clerk of
the county in which the action is triable, or, if it is triable in
the city and county of New York, or the county of Kings, be
fore the commissioner of jurors, or, if it is triable in the su
perior court of Buffalo, before the clerk of that court, for the
purpose of having the jury struck.
§ 1065. [AnVd 1877.] At the time appointed, the clerk,
or in his absence, the deputy-clerk, or the commissioner, as
the case requires, must attend at his office, with the original
lists or books, filed or kept in his office, as required by law,
containing the names of the persons who are then liable to
serve as trial jurors ; and, in the presence of the parties, or
their attorneys or counsel, must strike a trial jury, as follows :
1. The clerk, deputy-clerk, or commissioner, must select
from the lists or books, the namesof forty -eight persons, whom
he deems most indifferent between the parties, and best qualifled to try the issue ; and must make and certify a 1st of
those names.
2. The party, on whose application the special jury was di
rected to be struck, or his attorney or counsel, may then first
strike from the list one name ; the adverse party or his attor
ney or counsel may then strike therefrom one name ; and so
alternately, until each party has stricken out twelve names.
3. If either party fails to attend, at the time and place of
striking the jury, or neglects to strike out a name, the clerk,
deputy-clerk, or commissioner, must strike for him.
4. The clerk, deputy-clerk, or commissioner, must thereup
on make out a list of the names of the twenty-four persons
not stricken out, and must certify that it is a correct list of
the persons, drawn to serve as jurors, pursuant to the order
of the court. He must immediately deliver the list so certi
fied, and a certified copy of the order, to the sheriff of the
county. If the list, from any ward or town, cannot be found,
the clerk must make a new list from the ballots then in use for
jurors for that ward or town, and must use that list, upon
striking the jury, in place of the original list.
§ 1066. The sheriff must notify the persons whose names
are contained in the list, and must return the names of those
notified, to the term, at which they are required to attend, as
prescribed by law for notifying and returning ordinary trial
jurors.
§ 1067. Prom the persons so notified and attending, a
jury must be formed for the trial, and the issue must be tried,
as prescribed in this chapter with respect to an ordinary jury
trial. The court has the same power to excuse or discharge a
juror, and to cause additional jurors to be drawn, or tales
men to attend, as upon an ordinary jury trial. But the court
may, in its discretion, set aside an additional juror so drawn,
or a talesman, upon the objection of either party, without a
formal challenge.
§ 1068. [.-Im'd 1884.] If it appears to the court to which
an application for a special jury is made, that the clerk, or
the commissioner of jurors as the case may be, is interest
ed in the action, or is related to either of the parties, or is
not indifferent between them, the court must appoint two dis
interested persons to strike the jury ; and the court may, in
its discretion, in any case appoint two such persons to strike
such jury. The persons so appointed possess, for the purposes
of the act ion, all the powers conferred by this article upon the
clerk or the commissioner of jurors.
§ 1069. The expense of striking a special jury must be
paid by the party applying for it, and shall not be taxed in
the costs of the action.
§ 1070. Where an order for a trial by a foreign jury is
made, a certified copy thereof must be delivered to the sher
iff of the county, from which it is to be drawn ; who must
give notice thereof to the clerk of that county, and also, in
the city and county of New York, or the county of Kings, to
the commissioner of jurors, at least twenty days before the
first day of the term, at which the foreign jury is required to
attend.
§ 1071. The clerk, or, in the county of Kings, the com
missioner, to whom the uotice is given, must draw the names
of twenty-four persons, in the same manner, and in presence of the same officers, as prescribed by law. with respect to
ordinary t rial jurors ; except that notice of the drawing need
not be published. A certified list of toe nan>f> drawn nufl be
delivered to the sheriff, wb" must Doiify each ;>ersc«i drawn,
and make a return, as in an ordinary case.
§ 1C72. A person duly notified, as prescribed in this
title, to attend a term of a court of record, as a trial juror,
who, without reasonable cause, neglects to attend, according
to the notice, shall be lined a sum. not less than ten d- 'liars
nor more than twenty-fire dollars, for each day that he so
neglects to attend.
§ 10*73. Where it appears, by the return of the sheriff,
that the delinquent was personally notified to attend, the
fine may be imposed by the court, at the term which be was
required to attend But where it appears, bv the return, that
he was notified, by leaving the notice at bis residence, the
court must cause an order to be entered in its minutes, re
quiring him to show cause, on the first day of the next term
of the court, why a fine should not be imposed upon him.
£$ 1 074. If the order is made at a term of a circuit court,
it may, in the discretion of the court, direct the delinquent to
show cause, on the first day of the next term of the county
court of the same county.
g 1075. The clerk must immediately deliver two certified
copies of the order to the sheriff of the county, who must
serve one copy on the delinquent personally, and return the
other, with his proceedings thereon, to the term at which the
delinquent is required to show cause.
§ 1076. If the sheriff returns the copy of the order as
personally served, or if the delinquent attends, in obedience
thereto, the court must, unless good cause is shown to the
contrary, impose the proper fine ; otherwise it must make afurther order, requiring the delinquent to show cause at the
next term why the fine should not be imposed. The proceed
ings under such an order are the same as under the first
order. Similar orders must be made, from term to term, and
similar proceedings taken, until the delinquent is personally
served, or attends in obedience thereto.
§5 1077. But if it appears, from the return of the sheriff,
or from any other evidence, that the juror is dead, or insane,
or litis permanently removed from the county; or if a satis
factory excuse is rendered by any person, in his behalf, for
his default, the court may, in iis discretion, discontinue the
proceedings.
$5 1 078. This article does not apply to the city and county
of New York, or to the county of Kings.
§ 1070. In order to be qualified to serve, as a trial juror,
in a court in the city and county of New York, a person
must be :
1. A male citizen of the United States, and a resident of
that city and county.
2. Not less than twenty-one, nor more than seventy years
of age.
3. The owner, in his own right, of real or personal property,
of the value of two hundred and fifty dollars ; or the husband
of a woman who is the owner, in Iter own right, of real or
personal property of that value.
4. In the possession of his natural faculties, and not infirm
or decrepit.
5. Free from all legal exceptions ; intelligent ; of sound
mind and good character ; and able to read and write the
English language uuderstandingly.
§ 1080. A person dwelling or lodging in the city and
county of New York, for the greater part of the time, between the first day of October and the thirtieth day of June
next thereafter, is a resident of that city and county, for that
jury year, within the meaning of the last section ; and it is
not necessary, that he should have been assessed, or should
have voted there.
8 1081. [Am'd 1877, 1879, 1880, 1889, 1890.] Either of the
following persons, although qualified, is entitled to an exemption from service, as a trial juror, upon his claiming an
exemption, as prescribed in this article :
1. A clergyman, or a minister of any religion, officiating as
such, and not following any other calling
2. A practicing physician, surgeon, or surgeon dentist, hav
ing patients requiring his daily professional attention, and not
following any other calling, and a licensed pharmaceutist or
pharmacist while actually engaged in his profession as a
means of livelihood.
3. An attorney or counsellor-at-law, regularly engaged in
practice of the law as a means of livelihood.
4. A professor or teacher in a college, academy or public
school, not following any other calling, or an editor, editor!vl
writer or reporter of a daily newspaper regularly employed
as such and not following any other vocation.
5. The holder of an office, under the United States, or the
State, or the city or comity of New York, whose official
duties, at the time, prevent Ins attendance as a juror.
6. A consul of a foreign nation.
7. A captain, engineer, or other officer, actually employed
upon a vessel, making regular trips; or a licensed pilot,
actually following that calling.
H. A superintendent, conductor, or engineer, employed by a
railroad company, other than a street railroad company ; or
a telegraph operator, employed by a telegraph company:
who is actually doing duty in an office, or along the railroad
or telegraph line of the company, by which he is employed.
9. A grand juror, or a sheriffs juror, for the year, selected
pursuant to law.
10. Any officer, non-commissioned officer, musician or pri
vate actually serving in a brigade, regiment, battalion, com
pany or troop of the Old Guard of the city of New York, or of
the National Guard of the State, uniformed and equipped ac
cording to law, and faithfully performing his duty by making
the parades and attending the drills, inspections and reviews
required by law, or a general or staff officer, actually per
forming duty as such ; or a person who has been honorably
discharged from the National Guard, after five years service
in either capacity.
It. A person who has been honorably discharged from the
military forces of the State, after seven years' faithful ser
vice therein. But in order to entitle a person to exemption,
under this subdivision, his service must nave been performed
before the twenty-third day of April, eighteen hundred and
sixty-two, either as a general or staff officer, or as an officer,
non-commissioned officer, musician or private, in a uniformed
battalion, company or troop of the militia or the State, and
armed, uniformed and equipped, according to law ; or a por
tion thereof, during that period, and in that capacity, and the
remainder, since the twenty-third day of April, eighteen hun
dred and sixty-two, as a member of the national guard of the
State.
12. A person who, after faithfully performing the duties of
a fireman, in a fire company or fire department, duly organ
ized according to the laws of the State, for five successive
years, has been honorably discharged therefrom.
13. A person who is physically incapable of performing jury
duty, by reason of severe sickness, deafness, or other physical
disorder.
14. A person holding office under the fire or police de
partment of the city ; or otherwise specially exempted by
law.
gloss, Con£ 1082. The evidence of the right to exemption, aspresol. Act.
scribed in the last section, is as follows :
1. Under subdivision tenth thereof, where the applicant is a
member of a company or troop, the certificate of the captain, or
other commanding officer thereof, dated within three months
of the time of presenting it. Or the commissioner of jurors may,
in his discretion, receive the certified list, specified in the next
section, as sufficient evidence thereof. Where the applicant
is a regimental officer, or a staff officer, the evidence of the
right to exemption is the certificate of the major-general, or
other officer commanding the first division.
2. Under subdivision tenth thereof, where the applicant has
been discharged, or under subdivision eleventh or twelfth, the
certificate of discharge ; and, where it does not show all the
facts, the affidavit of the applicant, or of another person ac
quainted with the facts.
3. Under subdivision thirteenth thereof, the certificate of a
reliable physician, or the affidavit of the applicant, or both :
or any other evidence satisfactory to the commissioner.
4. Under any other subdivision thereof, an affidavit of the
applicant, or an affidavit satisfactory to the commissioner, of
another person in his behalf, stating the facts, entitling the
applicant to exemption. Each certificate specified in this
section, must be accompanied with satisfactory proof, by
affidavit, of the genuineness of the signature thereto ; anil
each affidavit and certificate must be filed with the commissioner of jnrors, and must be kept open by him, at all
reasonable times, to public inspection.
§ 1083. The captain, or other commanding officer, of
each company or troop, in the first division of the national
guard, must deliver to the commissioner of jurors, on or be
fore the first day of July in each year, and at any other time
when he may require it, a list, certified by him, containing
the full name and residence of each member and officer of his
company or troop, who is uniformed and equipped, and faith
fully performs his duty, as prescribed in subdivision tenth of
of the last section but one. No other name shall be inserted
in the list. The list must be filed in the commissioner's
office. The major-general, or other officer, commanding that
division, must, when necessary, issue orders to cany this
section into effect. He must also furnish to the commissioner
of jurors, when so required, a list, certified by him, contain
ing the name and residence of each offlceror other member of
that division, not comprised in the lists of the companies and
troops. An officer, who neglects or refuses, to perform the
duty, specified in this section ; or who includes, in a list cert ified by nim, the name of a person who is not described in this
section ; or who gives a false certificate, in a case specified in
the last section ; forfeits the sum of fifty dollars for each
offense.
§ 1084. The jury year, in the city and county of New
York, commences on the first day of October. A person who
has actually served, as a trial juror, in a court of record of
the State, within that city and county, twelve days within a
jury year, is entitled to be discharged by the court ; except
that he shall not be discharged, until the close of a trial, in
which he is serving, when the twelve days expire. A person
discharged, as prescribed in this section, is, thereafter, during
the same jury year, exempt from jury service in any county
of the State. Where the certificates of one or more clerks
of the courts, made as prescribed in section ten hundred and
eighty-nine of this act, show that a person is entitled to a dis
charge, as prescribed in this section, the commissioner of jur
ors must, upon request, certify to the fact. A person cannot
serve as a trial juror, in courts of record, at more than two
terms in a jury year.
§ 1085. The judge, holding a term, may, in his discretion,
excuse a trial juror from service at that term, for not more
than three days at a time, where the exigenciesof his business
require his temporary exemption. The judge may also dis
charge, for the term, bne or more jurors, notified and attend
ing, whose further attendance is not required for the trial of
issues at that term. Or he may discharge, until a day cer
tain, one or more jurors, notified and attending, whose at
tendance will not be required, for the trial of issues, until that
day. Each juror, so discharged until a day certain, must
attend at the opening of the court on that day, and there
after until he is discharged, without further notice. If he
fails so to do, he is liable to the same punishment, and the
some proceedings must be taken, as if he had failed to attend,
at the time fixed in the notice given to him. '
§ 1086. Except as prescribed in the last section, a court , 165n Oon.
or a judge shall not excuse a person, liable to serve as a trial |0i,Act.
juror, and duly drawn and notified, unless it is shown, by the
oath of the juror, or, if he is unable to attend, by the oath of another person, acquainted with the facts, that he is then
necessarily absent from the city, and will not return in time
to serve ; or that the interests of the public, or of the juror,
will be materially injured by his attendance ; or that he is
physicially unable to serve ; or that his wife, or a near rela
tive of himself or his wife, has recently died or is dangerously
sick. Where a person liable to serve is excused, in a cuse
specified in this section, or where a person, notified to attcud
a term, as a trial juror, is entitled to, and claims an exemp
tion, he can be excused onlv by the judge, holding the term,
which he has been notified to attend. Such an excuse does
not extend beyond that term.
§ 1087. A person, who has been notified to attend, as a
trial juror, and who applies to be excused, as prescribed in
the last section, must bring the notice, if he has received it,
into court, and present it, in open court to the judge ; or, if
he cannot personally attend, he must send it, by a person
capable of making the necessary proof, in relation to his
claim to be excused. A note of the excuse, and of the reason
therefore, attested by the judge, who must append his signa
ture or his initials thereto, must also be made upon the notice
to attend ; or, if the juror has not brought it into court, upon
a separate piece of paper ; which must De transmitted to the
commissioner of jurors, by the clerk, as part of the return,
made as prescribed in section ten hundred and eighty-nine of
this act.
g 1088. A person, serving as a trial juror, eleswhere than
m a court, 0f record, is excused from jury duty in a court of
record, only during the time of his actual service elsewhere.
§ 1089. The clerk of each court of record in the city and
county of New York, must, within ten days after the close of
each term, for which trial jurors have been drawn, or after
the discharge of the trial jurors, if they are discharged be
fore the close of the term, return to the commissioner of
jurors, the certified copy of the minute of the drawing of
the jurors, received from the sheriff, and the sheriff's return
thereto, or a copy of each paper, certified by the clerk; to
gether with each notice or other paper attested by a judge,
as prescribed in the last section but one. The clerk must also
deliver to the commissioner therewith, his certificate, specify
ing, distinctly and in detail, as follows :
1. The name and residence of each juror, who attended and
served ; the number of days the juror attended for the pur
pose of serving ; and the number of days he actually served.
2. The name and residence of each juror, who was excused
or discharged ; with the reason therefore.
8. The name and residence of each person notified, who did
not attend or serve.
4. The name and residence of each person fined, and the
date and amount of his fine, unless the flue has been remitted,
as prescribed in section eleven hundred and nine of this act.
The return and certificate must be filed in the commission
er's office, and shall not be altered or corrected, except in
pursuance of an order of the court. If a clerk fails to make a
complete return and certificate, as prescribed in this section,
he is guilty of a contempt of the court : and the commissioner
of jurors must institute the appropriate proceedings to punish
him accordingly.
§ 1090. Trial jurors must be selected by the commissioner of jurors, who must alone decide upon their qualifications, and exemptions, except as otherwise expressly proscribed in
this article. But this section does not impair the right to chal
lenge a particular juror at the trial. The commissioner may
issue, to a person entitled to an exemption, a certificate of
that fact, which exempts the person, to whom it is granted,
from jury duty, during the time limited therein. He must
keep a record of all proceedings before him, or in his office.
He is entitled to, and must collect, for the benefit of the city,
for a copy of a paper furnished by him, the same fees as the
clerk of a court of record.
§ 1091. The commissioner of jurors may, from time to
time appoint, and at pleasure remove, one or more assistants,
clerks m his office, and messengers, and may fix their compen
sation. He may designate, in writing, an assistant, to attend,
in his place, the drawing of jurors, for a particular term. The
commissioner, or each assistant, whom he designates for the
purpose, by a certificate, filed in the office of the county clerk,
may administer an oath or affirmation, in relation to any
matter, embraced within the provisions of this article.
§ 1092. The president and commissioners of the department of taxes and assessments, the police commissioners, and
all other public officers in the city or New York, must render
to the commissioner of jurors, all the assistance in their
power, to enable him to procure the names of persons, liable
to serve as trial jurors.
§ 1093. [Am'd 1889.] Suitable and proper rooms and
accommodations for the commissioner of jurors shall be provided by the city of New York. The commissioners of the
sinking fund of said city in case no such provision is made in
any building owned by or under the control of the city, shall
authorize the leasing of suitable rooms and accommodations
in said city for such purpose, for a period not exceeding five
years, upon such terms and conditions, as said commissioners,
or a majority of them may determine to be reasonable and
just.
§ 1094. The commissioner must commence the preparation of lists of trial jurors, in the month of May, in each year.
For that purpose, the names of the persons, liable to serve as
trial jurors, must be entered in suitable books, alphabetically,
with the occupation, place of business, and residence of each,
as far as those particulars can be conveniently ascertained.
After the first day of June, he must publish a notice, for at
least ten days, in not less than six of the newspapers pub
lished in the city, that claims for exemption will be heard by
him. He may insert in or append to the notice, copies of
such portions of the statutes, relating to jurors, as he deems
expedient. He must hear and determine all claims for ex
emption, and must keep a record of the persons exempted,
and of the period of time for which the exemption of each is
allowed.
§ 1095. The commissioner may cause to be personally
served, on any person, within the city, a notice, requiring
him to attend, at the commissioner's office, at a specified
time, not less than twenty-four hours after service of the
notice, for the purpose of testifying concerning his own lia
bility, or the liability of any other person, to serve as a juror.
A ]>crson so notified must attend, and testify accordingly. If
he fails to attend, as specified in the notice, for any cause, ex
cept physical inability ; or if be refuses to be sworn, or to answer any legal and pertinent question, put to hiin by the
commissioner ; he forfeits fifty dollars for each failure or re
fusal. One or more successive notices may be served upon
the same person, where he fails to attend, as required by a
former notice ; and he is liable to the same penalty, for each
failure so to attend. But the commissioner may, in his discre
tion, dispense with the personal attendance of a person, so
notified, where another person, cognizant of the facts, is pro
duced and testifies in his stead ; and where a person has so
attended twice, he cannot be required to attend again in the
same jury year.
§ 1096. On or before the first day of October, in each
year, the commissioner must return to the clerk of the city
and county of New York, to be filed in his office, certified
copies of the lists, prepared by him, of the persons, liable to
serve as trial jurors in the courts of record, for the ensuing
jury year. He may, from time to time thereafter, strike from
the lists kept by hiin, the name of a person, who is found by
him to be exempt or disqualified. In that case, he must re
cord the reason why the name is stricken off.
§ 1097. [Am'dl889.] When the certified copies of the
"wis have been returned, as prescribed in the last section, the
ballots for trial jurors, used in the previous year, must be re
turned by the county clerk, to the commissioner, who must
destroy those which are not required for the current jury
year. The ballots for the current jury year must be prepared
by the commissioner, who may use, for that purpose, so many
of the ballots, prepared for the previous year, as he deems
expedient. The ballots, so prepared, must be delivered by
the commissioner to the county clerk, and deposited by the
county clerk, or his deputy, in a box, as prescribed in article
second of title third of this chapter. The commissioner may,
from time to time thereafter, return certified copies of addi
tional lists, containing the names of persons, liable to serve as
trial jurors, which were omitted from the former lists, and
the names of qualified jurors that have been returned to the
commissioner during the current year as having been fined,
discharged or excused ; and ballots containing those names
must be prepared in like manner and used for the residue of
the jury year.
§ 1098. The number of trial jurors, to be drawn for each
term, and each separate part of a term, of a court of record
in the city, at which issues of fact are triable by jury, must be
fixed by a general order of the court, or, if it is not so fixed for
a term, or a separate part of a term, by a written order of a
judge, appointed to hold the same. The order, or a certified
copy thereof, must be filed in the office of the county clerk.
If the number has not been fixed, in either mode, at the time
of the drawing, one hundred trial jurors must be drawn for
each term, or for each part, if the term consists of two or
more separate parts.

^ 1099. On a day, designated by the county clerk, not
',f'7,2', <"'"n' less than fourteen, nor more than twenty days, before the dav
sol. Act.
appointed for holding, in the city, a term of a court of record,
at which issues of fact are triable by jury, the commissioner
of jurors, in person, or by an assistant designated by him ;
the sheriff of the city and county of New York, ill persou, or
by his under-sheriff ; and one or more judges of courts of rec
ord, residing in the city, must attend, at the office of the county clerk, to witness and assist, in the drawing of trial
jurors for the term.
§ llOO. At least six days before the drawing, the county
clerk must publish notice thereof, in at least three newspapers,
published in the city. He must also cause written notice
thereof to bo served u|xm the sheriff, the commissioner of
jurors, and at least three judges of one or more courts of rec
ord, residing in the city.
8 HOI. If at least one judge of a court of record,
residing in the city, and also the commissioner of jurors, and
the sheriff, in person, or represented, as prescribed in the last
section but one, do not attend, the clerk, or, in his absence,
the deputy-clerk, must adjourn the drawing to the next day.
Thereupon the clerk must forthwith cause to be served, upon
the absent commissioner or sheriff, and upon at least three
judges of one or more courts of record, residing Iu the city,
written notice, to attend the drawing upon the adjourned
day.
§ 1 102. If the officers, specified in section ten hundred
and ninety-nine of this act, attend upon the adjourned day,
but not otherwise, the clerk, or, in his absence, the deputyclerk, must proceed, in their presence, to draw the, jurors.
§ 1 103. The drawing must be conducted as follows :
1. The county clerk, or his deputy, must shake the box contaiuing the ballots, so as throughly to mix them.
2. He must then, without seeing the name contained in any
ballot, publicly draw out of the box, one ballot ; and con
tinue to draw, in like manner, one ballot at a time, until the
requisite number has been drawn.
8. A minute of the drawing must be kept by one of the at
tending officers, in which must be entered the name, contain
ed in each ballot, drawn, before another ballot is drawn.
4. After drawing the requisite number, the minute of the
drawing, containing the names of the persons drawn, with
the proper additions of each, and specifying for what court
and for what term they were drawn, must be signed by the
clerk or his deputy, and the attending officers, and filed in
the clerk's office.
§ 1104. If the term consists of two or more separate
parts, the trial jurors for each part must be drawn, and a
minute of the drawing must be made, signed, and filed, and
the subsequent proceedings must be the same, as if it was a
distinct term.
§ 1105. The commissioner may issue, to atrial juror so
drawn, a printed notice, informing him that he has been
drawn, and will be duly notified by the sheriff, and contain
ing copies of such portions of this article, as the commissioner
deems advisable.
§ 1100. [Am'd 1889.] The clerk must deliver to the sheriff a certified copy of the minute, or of each minute, if there
are two or more. The sheriff must notify each juror, named
therein, to attend the term or part for which he was drawn,
by serving upon him at least six days before the commence
ment thereof, a notice, addressed to him, stating that lie has
been drawn as a trial juror for, and is required to attend, the
term or part speci tied in the notice. The notice may bo serv
ed personally, or by leaving it at the juror's residence, or
usual place of business, with a person of proper age and discretion. Before the commencement of the term or part, the
sheriff must file with the clerk, the certified copy of the min
ute, with a return under his hand, indorsed thereupon, or
annexed thereto, naming each person notified, and specifying
the manner in which he was notified, and the time and place
of the service of such notice. Such return shall be presump
tive evidence of the fact of such service. An affidavit of the
person by whom each service shall have been made, stating
the manner, time and place of such service shall accompany
such return.
§ 1107. The clerk of each court, for a term of which trial
Jurors are notified to attend, by the sheriff, must certify to
the clerk of the board of alderman * each case, where less
than a majority of the persons, named in a minute of a draw
ing, are returned as personally served. The board of alder
men are prohibited from allowing or paying any fees or
charges to the sheriff, for notifying any of the persons named
in that minute, or for making a return thereupon. A clerk of
a court, who omits to notify the clerk of the board of alder
man, * as prescribed in this section, is liable to a penalty of
one hundred dollars, for each omission, to be recovered by
any person suing therefore.
§ 1108. [Arri'd 1877, 1889.] At any time during thesis
ting of a term of a court of record in the city, the court may
direct an additional number of trial jurors to be drawn for
the term, or for the part, at which the order is made. The
order must specify the number to be drawn, and the time of
drawing. The drawing may be made, either in open court,
under the direction of the judge ; or in the ordinary manner,
except that notice is not required. The sheriff must forth
with notify the jurors drawn by such a notice as the court
directs, to attend the term or part, at the time specified in
the order. He must forthwith file with the clerk of said court
a. return, under his hand, naming each person so notified, and
specifying in each case the manner, time and place of the
service of such notice. Such return shall be presumptive evi
dence of the fact of such service. An affidavit of the person
by whom each service shall have been made, stating the man
ner, time and place of such service shall accompany such
return.
§ 1 109. [Am'd 1889.] Where a person, duly drawn, and
notified to attend a term of a court of record, as a trial juror,
fails to attend at the time specified in the notice, or from dnv
to day, the court, at that term, must impose upon him a flue
of not less than fifty nor more than two hundred and fifty
dollars. A fine thus imposed may be wholly or partly remit
ted, by direction of the judge, in open court, before "the end
of the same term, and upon good cause shown ; otherwise it
shall not be remitted, except as prescribed in section one
thousand one hundred and thirteen of this act. Each remis
sion so made by the judge, in open court at the same term
with the reason therefore, must be entered in the minutes of
the court. This section applies to a special juror as well as to
an ordinary trial juror.
§ 1110. Where a person, duly drawn and notified, fails
to attend and serve, at a term of a court of record, as requir
ed by law, without having been excused, the court, besides
* So in original. imposing a fine, as prescribed in the last section, may direct
the sheriff to arrest nim, and bring him before the court ; and,
wheji he has been so brought, it may, in his discretion, com
pel him to serve.
§ 1111. A list of trial jurors, for each of the district j,,j.| yMi
courts, must be selected by the commissioner of jurors; and fr,s4 Consul!
must consist of not. less than fifty, nor more than one hundred Act.'
jurors. A person shall not l>e placed U|xui such a list, who
does not reside in the district, in which the court is held. The
judge of each district court must impose a fine of twenty-five
dollars, upon each person, duly drawn, and notified to attend the court, as a trial juror, who fails to attend, as requir
ed by the notice. The clerk of the court must, within ten
days thereafter, transmit to the commissioner of jurors a cer
tificate, showing that the fine has been so imposed, and sta
ting how the notice to attend was served upon the delinquent,
in order that the same proceedings may be had, as in the case
of a delinquent juror in a court of record. A judge, or a clerk,
who violates this section forfeits one hundred and fifty dollars
for each offense.
§ 1112 [>lm'd 1886.] The sheriff of the city and county . 1M5 r
of New York shall select from the list of trial jurors for each sol. Ait.
jury year the names of not less than two hundred and fifty,
nor more than three hundred persons, to constitute the sher
iff's jurors, for that jury year, and he shall forthwith transmit
to the commissioner of jurors a list, certified by him, contain
ing the names of the persons so selected, with the proper ad
ditions of each, and snowing that they have been selected as
prescribed in this section. The sheriff must cause ballots to
be prepared as prescribed in article second of title third of
this chapter, and to be deposited in a proper box. Where the
sheriff is authorized, or required by law, to empanel a jury for
any purpose, the requisite number of ballots must be drawn
from the box, as prescribed in that article, by the sheriff, or
by his under-sheriff, or deputy-sheriff. But the sheriff may,
in his discretion, divide the names contained in the list into
three panels, each containing an equal number of names, as
nearly as may be. In that case he must designate the months
in which each panel will be used, so that the jury duty shall
be distributed equally, as nearly as may be, amonjr the jurors ;
and ballots shall be deposited in the box, at the Deginning of
each month, containing the names of the jurors designated
for that month.
§ 1113. [Arrid 1879, 1889.] Upon receiving the return to the
minute and certificate required by the provisions of section ten ■ I At n*
hundred and eighty-nine to be filed in the office of the com
missioner of jurors, and the certificate required to be trans
mitted to said commissioner of jurors, as prescribed in section
eleven hundred and eleven, said commissioner shall transmit
a list of the delinquent jurors who have been returned as
fined to the counsel to the corporation of said city, whose
duty it shall be to apply forthwith to a judge of the court in
which such fine shall nave been imposed, for an order direct
ing each delinquent trial juror, returned as having been fined
in such court, to show cause before the judge by whom such
fine was imposed, or such other judge as may be designated
in such order should the judge by whom such fine was imposed
have ceased to be a member of such court, or for any other
reason shall be unable to hear such proceeding at a time and
place to be named therein, why the payment of the fine should not be enforced. In case of the absence of such judge at the
time and place mentioned in said order, the proceedings
thereunder may be conducted before such other judge of
said court as may be then and there present. Said order
shall be served upon the persons to whom the same is ad
dressed, by delivering to each one personally, and leaving
with him, a copy of the same. It shall be the duty of the
commissioner of jurors to cause such orders to be served.
Such service may be made by any person by whom a sum
mons in a civil action in a court ot record might be served
who may be designated for the purpose by the commissioner
of jurors and proof of such service may be made by affidavit.
The proofs of such service shall be transmitted to the counsel
to the corporation. In case of failure to make such service it
shall be the duty of the commissioner of jurors to transmit to
the counsel to the corporation the affidavit of the person
charged with the duty of making such service setting forth
the reasons for such failure and the efforts made to effect
such service. As many delinquents may be included in one
proceeding as the counsel to the corporation may determine,
but the copy of the order required to be served upon each
delinquent need not specify the names of other delinquents
included in the same proceeding. If the delinquent attends in
obedience to said order to show cause, the judge before win. in
the same is heard, may, for good cause shown, remit such fine
in whole or in part. If such fine is not remitted, or is remit
ted only in part, the judge shall order the said fine, or so
much thereof as shall not have been remitted as the case may
be, to be enforced. If the delinquent shall fail to appear, a
like order shall be made for the enforcement of the fine upon
due proof by affidavit of the service upon such delinquent of
such order to show cause. In all cases in which a fine shall be
ordered to be enforced in whole or in part, costs not exceed
ing ten dollars in each case, shall be awarded against the de
linquent, which shall be added to and form a part of the fine
to be enforced. The order for the enforcement of a fine, in
whole or in part, shall be conclusive with respect thereto. An
appeal may be taken from any such order not made on de
fault to the general term to which an appeal now lies from
any order or judgment made or rendered in the court in
which such fine is imposed. Such appeal shall be taken in the
same time and in like manner as is now provided by law in re
lation to appeals from orders made in such court and shall be
final.
a 1690 Con§ 1 1 17. [Am'd 1889.] All orders for the enforcement of
sol. Act.
the payment of fines shall be filed in the office of the county
clerk in said city, who must make in the docket book of judg
ments kept by him the same entries, as nearly as may be.
with respect to each fine, as if it were a final judgment ren
dered in an action. When the entries have been made, the
fine, including costs with interest thereon, from the date of
the order of enforcement, becomes a lien ujxai the real prop
erty of the person fined, in like manner and to the same ex
tent as if it was recovered by a judgment in the supreme
court and an execution to collect it may be issued, directed
to the sheriff of the city and county of New York, as upon such a judgment. The oi-rnmisKinneT aam. h "r»?an*wi
execution, and the satisfacnrw nf roe ine. nl ~ne > «".
the attorney for a party pOTTenne «m a jimairai
lation to the judgment. and. the esecinoa «w?t t»—r>
Upon the return of any snca exeeur-oii mn>ilRi. n
or in part, the court in which ^.■■a tie «ku1 &■-■• >»posea shall have power, on -Jie ijcdcsrj n u ;i»- •--.■
sioner of jurors, and upfmajon3i:rt:e is -;e -Mr— ~r.— '■:
to punish the delinqnent jcr'-r f*r ausc-.riituer. n .*.\:^ ~o
pay such fine, or as much thtr^f :ut :na- ^*main uhiaw, "n
imprisonment not exceeding znirrj la- « n -ue s<nnr- _au§ 1118. [Jm'd IS©.] Tae •OTnmnssioner if .nr»" m» ;K^
receive all money paid or eo<Iei;re>i '. •- Ine* ir jeru..:.«^ «• m. At
prescribed in this article : ami ae m; tuu*.» «.l mi -Tienr*
therefrom, which he B aczh»<ra><i -.7- -.11* ii—.v.r -o naif.
He must give a receipt for any man"- oaut >, 11m. j.r l \ar. ir
penalty. He must keep a josi aoa :.«.rjr u uir-nar if iii ~^ceipts and payments, by ~rm.H. toiiw mr *ie ine u* ne:
person from whom each suai of mr.ney '▼•u* *=^«" -^t uul *\
whom each sum of money 73* aaal . jnit jnu-"£ ur. m*l
reasonable times, keep hi* uecuan -.cen. >i Tiu.'ir. iu.ij»~l" « ■_
At the end of each calec'iir y-^tr. ai» i»"ir.uur niu ? >* ■ ^—*fled by his affidavit, to the eff^cs zmt- xjiji^ _-~™;»—j> ju.s
and true : and that he has »< &*:*••• *< lay *im c in oi-y
during the year, for which he ha* a*'*: •aa.rr^t unu**'!' n ~ie
account ; and the commrs*H.c«eT mnss ':iie-*'i*>-ii in* '.f*— v.
the chamberlain of the city, the '^t^a»*e. -J i.i^ n ii» mrurit
The account must immediazeiy fee I'-ujwrur-.rt -.7 -ji- •- m>missioner to the clerk of the b«un '? -fcjt.v-n«i. i-nt tiil-t. re
published in the newspaper. desB^uis** m ir^w—.-^; ->r m.w.
for the publication of the 'loa. jsr"-.ee»£ni£4 -.< tK:y -.i£i!er*.
§ 1119. [.-Im'd lSSft.] The enrawei vs -an- 9:ryrK« .
shall conduct all the proreeczMS <<ie taeear* -«rlerne-K u»3 *jv^, **"
collection of such fines, in ti>e na~e *a*i <«. ^ea:*-.' •-.«' :<ie r* ctmissioner of jurors. He -fc.nl a»». wm rw-i."*; -y -.ie »t>
missioner of jurors, prosecute, m t*e er».f«r er-o-"- m s..-:».q
for the collection of each penary Blurred ** fr«<T-_-.e<: :a
this article ; unless he is s»t;~o«i. cpva u eiic.^:jc • •-' ".oe
case, that there is a defense to tin aetata. Tit* *ir.j c ii*the collection of a penalty nuat be maii.iaixe<i ^ toe Li&e of
the mayor, aldermen and cxaa.me^xj of ti«e c:y A Sew
York, as plaintifffs. The onmn>>WKr. wr.fc toe s=-*«j'. ff the
counsel to the corporation, may comprtc&ise. «<*!« it discon
tinue an action so Drought. The proceeds of an ac*.K« pr>«ecuted to judgment and execution or ccn>pr«:?m-ed as prescrib
ed in this section must be paid to the e*.cimissx -cer. It shall
be the duty of the counsel to the cory*orati« « to make a sepa
rate report once every three months to the mayor of suid
city, which report shall state the number and nanies of the
persons fined according to the papers tran-uuu«l to him by
the commissioner of jurors, since his last rvj»*»rt. the amount
of such flues, the number and names of the |*'i>«>us proceeded
against by him since his last re|jort, the numl-er and names of
the persons against whom orders for the enf< ix^ement of fines
shall have been made since his last report, the names of the
persons whose fines shall have been remit ltd in whole or in
part, and the amounts ; with the reasons therefore as far as
the same may be ascertainable; also a statement, of all
proceedings whensoever taken, in which the remedies for the
collection of such fines shall not have been exhausted, showing the condition of each proceeding. He shall also stale the
amount of fines collected during the three months preceding
said report, and the disposition of the same. It shall be the
duty ofthe mayor to cause said report to be published in the
City Record within ten days after the same is received by
him.
§ 1 1 20. A physician, who knowingly gives a false certificate, or makes a false representation, for the purpose of
enabling or assisting a person, to be discharged, excused, or
exempted from service as a trial juror in the city and county
of New York, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 1121. A person, to whom application is made, within
the city of New York, by the commissioner of jurors, or by
his authority, for information, as to a fact, upon which the
liability of nimself, or any other person, to serve as a trial
juror, depends, and who refuses to give information relating
thereto, which he can give, or knowingly gives false informa
tion relating thereto ; or a person who knowingly makes to
the commissioner of jurors, or to a person acting by his au
thority, a false representation, as to the identity, residence, or
any other matter, relating to the liability of liimself, or any
other person, to serve as a trial juror, forfeits fifty dollars for
each offense.
§ 1122. A person who gives, pays; promises, or offers,
money, or any other thing, to the commissioner of jurors, the
sheriff, the county clerk, or other clerk of a court; or to a
deputy of, or a person employed by, the county clerk or other
clerk of a court ; or to an officer, messenger, or other person,
employed by the sheriff, or the commissioner of jurors ; for
the purpose of enabling or assisting himself, or any other per
son, named or drawn as a trial juror, to evade, or to be dis
charged, exempted, or excused from service ; or who know
ingly makes a false statement or representation, to a judge,
the commissioner of jurors, or a member of the board of en
forcement of jury fines, for such purpose ; or who knowingly
retains, conceals, suppresses, or willfully destroys, a notice to
attend, before the commissioner of jurors, or at a term of a
court, or any other paper, relating to the liability to serve, or
service, as a trial juror, left at the residence or place of busi
ness of another, who has been named or drawn as a trial
juror, is guilty of a misdemeanor. The district attorney must
prosecute for each offense, specified in this or the next two
sections, which comes to his Knowledge.
8 1123. [Am'd 1889.] Any person who takes money or
any other thing as a gift, bribe or payment, for the purpose
of enabling or assisting a person, named or drawn as a trial
juror to evade, or to be discharged, exempted or excused
from jury duty ; or who willfully and knowingly prevents or
hinders tin- execution of any provision of this article, is guilty
of a misdemeanor.
§ 1124.lv A person, named or drawn
as i-a i_trial "juror, to
,y
-. i_whom
an offer or suggestion to procure
his discharge,
exemp
tion, or excuse from jury duty, for or in consideration of a
corrupt inducement or reward, is made by any person, aixl
who fails, within twenty-four hours thereafter, to inform the
commissioner of jurors thereof, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

8? 1539, 1698,
§ 1125. A person, who swears falsely in an affidavit, or
'oiisol. Act. testifjgs falsely upon an inquiry, made as prescribed in Uu>article, is guilty of perjury, in a case where faisely sweartnp,
in an affidavit, used upon a motion in a civil action, or falsely
testifying, upon the trial of an issue of fact in such an action,
would constitute that crime.
§ 1126. In order to bequalified to serve, as a trial juror,
in a court of record in the count y of Kings, a person must be :
1. A male citizen of the United States, and a resident of
that county.
2. Not less than twenty-one, nor more than sixty years of
age.
3. The owner, in his own right, of real property, of the value
of one hundred and fifty dollars, or of personal property, of
the value of two hundred and fifty dollars ; or the husband
of a woman, who is the owner, in her own right, of real or
personal property, of that value.
4. In the possession of his natural faculties ; and not infirm
or decrepit.
5. Free from all legal exceptions ; intelligent ; of sound
mind and good character ; and able to read and write the
English language uuderstandinglv.
§ 1127. [Am'd 1879, 1881.] Either of the following per
sons, although qualified, is entitled to an exemption from ser
vice, as a trial juror, upon his claiming an exemption, as
prescribed in this article :
1. A clergyman, or a minister of any religion, officiating as
such, and not following any other calling.
2. A practicing physician, surgeon, or dentist surgeon, hav
ing patients requiring his daily professional attention, and not
following any other calling, and a licensed pharmaceutist
or pharmacist, while actually engaged in his profession as a
means of livelihood.
3. An attorney or counsellor-at-law, regularly engaged in
the practice of the law, as a means of livelihood.
4. A professor or teacher in a college, academy, or public
school, or in a private school for the instruction of pupils in
the usual branches of education, not following any other call
ing.
5. The holder of an office, under the United States, or the
State, or the couuty, or the city of Brooklyn, or a town of the
county ; whose official duties, at the time, prevent his attend
ance as a juror.
6. A captain, engineer, or other officer, actually employed
upon a vessel, making regular trips ; or a licensed pilot, actu
ally following that calling.
7. A superintendent, conductor, or engineer, employed by a
railroad company, other than a street railroad company ; or
a telegraph operator, employed by a telegraph company,
who is actually doing duty in an office, or along the railroad
or telegraph line, of the company, by which he is employed.
8. An officer, non-commissioned officer, musician, or private,
actually serving in a brigade, regiment, battalion, company,
or troop, of the national guard of the State, uniformed and
equipped, according to law, and faithfully performing his
duty, oy making the parades, and attending the drills, inspec
tions, and reviews, required by law ; or a general or statfofficer, actually performing duty as such ; or a person who
has been honorably discharged from the national guard, after
five years' service, in either capacity.
9. A person, who has been honorably discharged from the
military forces of the State, after seven years' faithful ser
vice therein. But, in order to entitle a person to exemption,
under this subdivision, his service must have been performed
before the twenty-third day of April, eighteen hundred and
sixty-two, either as a general or staff-officer, or as an officer,
non-commissioned officer, musician, orprivate, in a uniformed
battalion, company, or troop, of the militia of the State, and
armed, uniformed, and equipped according to law ; or a por
tion thereof, during that period, and in that capacity, and the
remainder, since the twenty-third day of April, eighteen hun
dred and sixty-two, as a member of the national guard of
the State, mencement of the term, and since the second Monday of Au
gust, preceding the commencement thereof.
2. Where he has actually served in the county, as a grand
juror, pursuant to law, since the first Monday of September,
preceding the commencement of the term.
3. Where the interests of the public, or of the juror, will be
materially injured by his attendance ; or his own health, or
the health of. a member of his family, requires his absence ;
or his wife, or a near relative of himself or his wife, has re
cently died.
§ 1131. [Am'd 181)1.] The clerk of each court of record
in the county of Kings must, within one week after the close
of each term for which trial jurors have been drawn, or after
the discharge of the trial jurors, if they are discharged before
the close of the term, return to the commissioner of jurors
the panel of trial jurors with the commissioner's return re
ceived from the commissioner, as prescribed in section one
thousand one hundred and forty-eight of this act, or a copy
of each of those papers, certified by the clerk. The clerk must
also deliver to the commissioner therewith a certificate, specifyhig distinctly and in detail as follows :
1. The name and residence of each juror who attended and
served, and the number of days he actually served.
2. The name and residence of each juror who was excused
or discharged, with the reason therefore.
3. The name and residence of each person notified, who did
not attend or serve.
4. The name and residence of each person fined, and the
date and amount of his fine.
The return and certificate must be filed in the office of the
commissioner, who must also record therefrom, upon the list
originally made by him, the date and amount of service, per
formed by each person, as therein set forth.
§ 1 132. [Am'd 1890.] Trial jurors must be selected by
the commissioner of jurors, who may decide upon their quali
fications and exemptions, as prescribed in this article. The
commissioner may, from time to time, appoint, and at pleas
ure remove, one assistant, and as many more assistants,
clerks and messengers as the board of supervisors directs.
The commissioner shall also appoint, and remove, from time
to time, as many clerks, not to exceed, nine as may be requir
ed to prepare jury notices for service, and serve the same as
directed Dy the commissioner. The board of estimate of the
city of Brooklyn, and the county of Kings shall fix the salary
of the said commissioner. The said clerks as notice servers
shall possess the same powers as deputy sheriffs in perform
ance of such duties, and their salaries shall be fixed by the
board of estimate of the city of Brooklyn and the county of
Kings and in each case shall not be less than one t housand
dollars or more than twelve hundred dollars per annum. The
commissioner and each assistant, whom he designates for the
purpose, by a certificate, filed in the office of the county clerk,
may administer an oath or affirmation, in relation to any
matter embraced within the provisions of this article. The
commissioner must keep a record of all proceedings before
him, or in his office.
§ 1133. The commissioner is entitled to, and must collect,
for a copy of a paper furnished by him, the same fees as the
clerk of a court of record. He must furnish a copy of each paper filed, or proceeding taken, in his office, to any person
applying therefore, and paying the fees. All the money re
ceived by him, for fees, or fines collected from trial jurors, or
otherwise in the discharge of his duties as commissioner, must
be accounted for by him, and paid into the treasury of the
county.
§ 1134. The lmard of supervisors of the county must
provide suitable rooms, and other accommodations, for the
use of the commissioner of jurors, ami also for the compen
sation of his assistants, clerks, and messengers ; and for nec
essary printing and advertising, books, stationery and other
articles, required for the convenient discharge of his duties.
§ 1135. The assessors in the city of Brooklyn, and of
each town in the county of Kings, or a majority of them,
must, after the first day of May, and on or before the first
day of July in each year, return, to the commissioner of jur
ors, a written list, under his or their hands, containing the
names of all persons in the city or town, as the case may be,
who are liable to serve as trial jurors ; and stating the occu
pation, place of business, and residence, of each person, as far
as those particulars can be conveniently ascertained. The
omission to include the names of one or more persons, so
liable, or any other error or defect in a list, does not affect
the validity of any proceeding, prescribed in this article. The
commissioner must, within the same period, select, from the
persons residing in the county, suitable persons to serve as
trial jurors. In making the returns or selection, the assessors
and the commissioner respectively must take the names of
those persons only, whom they believe to be qualified to serve,
and not exempt from service, as trial jurors. A list of the
names so selected must be made, by the commissioner, in a
book, specifying, as nearly as he has ascertained the facts,
the occupation, the place of business, and the residence of
each person, including the town, or, in the city of Brooklyn,
the ward. In the list, the towns must be arranged alphabeti
cally, and the wards numerically ; and the names of the jur
ors must be arranged alphabetically, according to their sur
names, each under the name of the town or ward, where he
resides.
§ 1 136. As soon after the first day of June, in each year,
as the commissioner has made the list, he must publish a
notice, for at least ten days, in at least six daily newspapers,
published in the county, to the effect, that the list of trial
jurors for the year is ready, at his office, for examination and
correction. He must then receive evidence of disqualifica
tions or exemptions, and must mark " not qualified," or
" exempt," in the list, opposite the name of each person, found
to be disqualified to serve, or exempt from serving as a trial
juror, as the case requires. He must also record therein, the
ground of each disqualification or exemption.
§ 1137. On the first Monday of August in each year, or
earlier, if the corrections can be earlier made, the commis
sioner must prepare the list of trial jurors for the year, by
copying, from his book, the names of all persons, who appear
therein to be liable to serve as trial jurors, with the proper
additions of each. The commissioner must file a transcript
of the list, verified by his affidavit, in the office of the county
clerk.
§ 1138. Supplemental lists, containing: tne names and
f>roper additions of persons, subsequently ascertained to be
iable to serve as trial jurors, may, from time to time there
after be made ; and transcriptsthereof, verified as prescribed
in the last section, must be filed in like manner, by the com
missioner. Ballots, containing those names, must be prepared,
as prescribed in the next section, and used, in like manner
as the other ballots therein specified, for the residue of the
jury year.
§ 1139. The commissioner must prepare ballots, by wri
ting the names, contained in the list, a transcript of which
was filed in the office of the county clerk, with the proper ad
ditions of each person, on separate pieces of paper, which
must be uniform, as nearly as may be, in appearance. On
the second Monday of August in each year, he must deposit
the ballots, in the dox kept by him for that purpose, and must
place his seal upon the box ; whereupon all jury ballots, pre
viously in use, must be destroyed. The box must be con
structed with an aperture, large enough only to conveniently
admit the hand of the person, by whom the ballots are to be
drawn ; and the aperture must oe provided with a cover, so
arranged as to be conveniently sealed, when closed.
§ 1 140. The commissioner must seasonably notify the
justicesof the supreme court, residing in the county, the judges
of the city court of Brooklyn, the county judge, and the justices
of sessions of the county, to attend, at his office, on a day desig
nated by him, not less than fourteen nor more than twenty
days, before the day appointed for holding a term of a court
of record in the county, at which issues of fact are triable by
jury, in order to witness and assist in the drawing of trial
jurors, for that term. The number of trial jurors, to be drawn
for each term, may be fixed by the judge who is to preside at '
or hold the term, by an order under his hand, delivered to the
commissioner. If the number has not been so fixed, at the
time of the drawing, one hundred and thirty-two trial jurors
must be drawn for the term.
§ 1 141. {Amd 1879, 1889.] If two or more of the judges
specified in the last section attend with or without one or
more justices of sessions, the commissioner, or, in case of his
absence, his chief clerk, must break the seal of the box con
taining the ballots, open it, and exhibit the ballots for their
inspection, together with his original and each supplemental
list of trial jurors, and also the verified transcripts thereof
filed in the county clerk's office. The ballots containing the
names of trial jurors excused from service for the whole or a
portion of a previous term of a court of record in the couuty
which have not already been replaced in the box to be re
drawn, must then be replaced therein ; and the judges attend
ing the drawing must take care, when the seal is broken, that
they are so replaced. If a supplemental list has been made,
and a transcript filed since the last drawing, ballots contain
ing the names appearing therein must at the same time be
placed in the box. The judges and the commissioner, or, in
case of his absence, his chief clerk, or a majority of them,
must appoint one of the attending officers to draw the ballots
from the box and another to checkmark the drawing as it
proceeds upon a copy of the lists, transcripts of which have
been filed with the county clerk.
§ 1142. [Am'd 1889.] The commissioner., or in case of his absence, his chief clerk, must then shake the box contain
ing the ballots so as thoroughly to mix them. The person
appointed for that purpose must then, without seeing the
name contained in any ballot, publicly draw one ballot from
the box and read aloud the contents thereof. If the drawing
is for trial jurors to serve in the city court of Brooklyn, ana
the person drawn does not reside in that citv, the ballot must
be returned to the box ; but if he resides in that city, or if the
drawing is for trial jurors to serve in another court, the per
son appointed to checkmark the drawing must place oppo
site the name of the person drawn, upon the copy of the lists,
the figure one. The ballot must then be deposited in a second
box provided for that purpose and constructed like the first
box. Another ballot must then be drawn in like manner from
the first box, and the same process must be repeated until the
requisite number has been drawn, except that each name
must be checkmarked in its numerical order.
§ 1 143. [Am'd 1889.] 'When the drawing is completed,
the commissioner, or in case of his absence, his chief clerk,
and the judges by whom it was conducted, must sign a min
ute at the end of the copy of the lists, upon which the check
marks have been made, setting forth that the trial jurors
whose names are contained therein, were duly drawn by
them, for the court and the term therein specified, in the
order denoted by the figures. The judges must then close
each box ; and place upon the cover thereof, their seals, which
must not be broken, except when necessary for a subsequent
drawing.
§ 1144. The proceedings, upon each subsequent drawing,
are the same ; but the list must be check marked with num
bers, commencing with the number next in order, after the
last number used at the preceding drawing.
§ 1 145. After all the ballots have been drawn from the
first, box, and deposited in the second box, the commissioner
must make a new list, by copying the lists used upon the pre
ceding drawings, omitting the checkmarks. He must then
correct it, by properly indicating each person who has been
found to be disqualified, exempt, dead, or not resident within
the county ; and each person, who has been excused, and for
what time. Thereafter, when trial jurors are drawn, the
ballots must be drawn from the second box ; the names must
be checkmarked on the corrected list ; and the ballots not
used must be deposited in the first box; except that whereaballot is drawn, containing the name of a poison indicated, on
the corrected list, as disqualified, exempt, dead, or non-resi
dent, it must be destroyed ; and a ballot, containing the
name of a person who has been excused, for a period then un
expired, must be returned to the box from which it was
drawn, without checkmarking.
§ 1146. N4m'd 18R9. 1800, 1801.] Immediately after each
drawing of trial jurors, the commissioner or in" case of his
absence, his chief clerk must prepare a panel verified by his
affidavit, containing the names of the jurors drawn, with the
proper additions of each, and stilting for what court and for
what term, they were drawn. He must transmit the panel to
the sheriff of the county, who must keep it on file in his office
for public inspection. The commissioner must forthwith noti
fy each juror named therein to attend the term for which he
was drawn by serving uuon him a notive to that clt'eet addressed to him. The notice may be served personally or by
leaving it at the juror's residence or usual place of business
with a person of proper age and discretion. It must specify
the days during which the juror is required to be present ;
and it may contain copies of such portions of this article as
the commissioner deems proper.
§ 1147. [Am'd 1890, 1891.] The thirty-six trial jurors
first drawn for a term, or such other number as the judge ap
pointed to hold or preside at the term, directs must be notified
to be present during the first six days of the term, and the
thirty-six trial jurors next drawn, or such other number as
the judge directs, must be notified to be present during the
next six days of the term, and a like number during each suc
ceeding six days. The judge holding or presiding at the
term, may in his discretion, on the application of a trial juror
excuse him from the whole, or a part of the time of service re
quired of him. The judge may also change the time of ser
vice of a juror to a laier day, during the same, or a subse
quent term of the court. Each juror whose time of service is
changed to a day certain must attend at the opening of court
on that day, and thereafter until discharged, without further
notice. If he fails so to do he is liable to the same punish
ment as if he had been personally notified by the commissioner
to attend the term, and to be present on that day. The clerk
of the court must enter in a book kept for that purpose the
name of each juror who is so excused, or whose time of ser
vice is changed.
§ 1148. {Am'd 1890, 1891.] Before the commencement
of each term of a court for which trial jurors have been
drawn, as prescribed in this article, the commissioner, or in
case of his absence, his chief clerk, must file with the clerk
the panel or a copy of the panel, with a return under his
hand, indorsed thereupon or annexed thereto, showing the
names and additions of each juror notified the days during
which he was notified to attend, and the manner in which he
was notified.
§ 1149. [Am'd 1890.] At anytime during the sitting of
a term of a court of record in the county, the court may
direct an additional number of trial jurors to be drawn for
that term. The order must specify the number to be drawn
and the time of drawing. The drawing must be conducted
as prescribed in sections eleven hundred and forty-one, eleven
hundred and forty-two and eleven hundred and forty-three
of this act, except that notice is not required. The commis
sioner must forthwith notify each juror drawn by such a
notice as the court directs, to attend the term at the time
specified in the order.
§ 1150. [Am'd 1890, 1891.] In a special proceeding pend
ing before the county judge of Kings county, in which a trial
jury is necessary, trie judge may empanel a jury from the
trial jurors who are serving at the time in the court of ses
sions of the county. In a special proceeding pending before
a judge of the city court of Brooklyn in which a trial jury is
necessary, the judge may empanel a jury from the trial jurors
who are serving at the time in that court. If there are no
jurors serving in the court of sessions or in the citv court as
the case may be, the judge may make an order requiring the
commissioner of jurors to draw the nujnber of trial jurors designated therein ; whereupon the commissioner or in case
of lus absence, his chief clerk, must draw the requisite num
ber and the commissioner must notify them as prescribed in
this article for drawing and notifying other trial jurors.
§ 1151. The board of supervisors of the county must
allow to each judge, including each justice of the supreme
court, for the services performed by him, as prescribed in
this article, such compensation, as the board deems reason
able and proper.
§ 1 152. Where a person, duly drawn and notified to at
tend a term of a court of record, as a trial juror, fails to at
tend, at the time specified in the notice, or from day to day,
the court, at that term, must impose upon him a fine of
twenty-five dollars, for each day that he fails so to attend.
This section applies to a special juror, as well as to an ordi
nary trial juror.
§ 1153. Where a person, duly drawn and notified, fails
to attend and serve, at a term of a court of record, as re
quired by law, without having been excused, the court, be
sides imposing a fine, as prescribed in the last section, may
direct the sheriff to arrest him, and bring hiin before the
court ; and, when he has been so brought, it may, in its dis
cretion, compel him to serve.
§ 1 1 54. The commissioner of jurors must cause a notice
to be served upon each delinquent trial juror, returned as
having been fined, stating the sum in which, and the term at
which he was fined, and requiring him to show cause, if he
has any, before the board, specified in this section, at the
commissioner's office, on a day, not less than three days there
after, and at an hour specified in the notice, why the fine
should be remitted. The commissioner must notify the jus
tices of the supreme court, residing in the county, the countyjudge, and the chief-judge of the city court of Brooklyn, to
attend at the same time and place, and act with him as a
board, for the remission and enforcement of jury fines. It is
their duty to attend, and act accordingly. The commissioner,
and two of those justices or judges, constitute a quorum.
The board may, in its discretion, hear testimony ; and it may,
from time to time, adjourn the meeting, or the hearing or
final disposition of a particular case. It may remit the whole
or any part of a fine ; but a fine shall not be remitted or re
duced, unless the person, upon whom it has been imposed, or,
if a reason satisfactory to the board is given, why his affidavit
cannot be furnished; another person in his behalf, makes, and
files with the commissioner, an affidavit, stating the grounds,
upon which a remission or reduction is claimed. Each affida
vit, so filed, must be kept open to public inspection.
§ 1 155. The commissioner of jurors must receive each
fine, paid or collected, as prescribed in this article. When
ten days have expired, since the final disposition of a case by
the board, the commissioner must file, in the office of the
clerk of the court, a return, containing the name of each juror
fined, whose fine remains unpaid, and a statement of the sum
remaining unpaid. The clerk must thereupon issue to the com
missioner, a precept, under the seal of the court, specifying
the name of each person fined, and the amount of his fine
remaining unpaid ; and commanding the commissioner to levy
and enforce collection of each tine, and to return the precept,
with his doings thereupon, within ninety days after the receipt thereof. For the purpose of collecting a fine, the com
missioner must levy upon and sell the personal property of a
person fined, with like effect, and subject to the same pro
visions of law, as where a sheriff levies upon and sells personal
property, by virtue of an execution, issued upon a judgment
of a court of record.
§ 1156. The commissioner must return the precept, ac
cording to its command, to the clerk of the court issuing it.
If he fails so to do, the court m;\y enforce the return, by at~
tachment for contempt. When the precept is returned, the
clerk must make, in the docket of judgments kept by him, the
same entries, as nearly as may be, with respect to each uncol
lected line, as if it was a final judgment rendered in an action.
If the fine was imposed at a term of the city court of Brook
lyn, the clerk thereof must immediately transmit a transcript
of the entries, to the clerk of the county of Kings ; who must
file it, and make the appropriate entries in his docket of judg
ments. When the entries have been made, the fine, with
interest, becomes a lien upon the real property of the person
fined, as if it was recovered by a judgment in the same court ;
and an execution to collect it may be issued, directed to the
sheriff of the county of Kings, as upon a judgment. The
commissioner has, in relation to the execution, and the satis
faction of the fine, all the powers of the attorney for a party
recovering such a judgment, in relation to the judgment, and
the execution issued thereupon.
§ 1 157. The lien, created by such a docket, must be dis
charged by the county clerk, on filing with him the commis
sioner's certificate of payment.
§ 1158. If the commissioner of jurors, or either of his
assistants, or a clerk or other person, employed by him, cor
ruptly and without sufficient cause, omits the name of a per
son, duly drawn, from a panel of trial jurors, or the ballot,
containing the name of such a person, from either of the boxes
prescribed in this article ; or, directly or indirectly, receives
a fee, reward, compensation, or advantage, in consideration
of, or as an inducement to such an omission ; he is guilty of a
felony, and shall, on conviction, be punished by imprisonment
in a State prison, for a term not less than two uor more than
five years.
§ 1 159. A willful omission, by the commissioner, of a duty
required of him by this article, other than that specified in
the last section, is a misdemeanor.
§ 1160. A person, to whom application is made, within
the county of Kings, by an assessor, or by the commissioner
of jurors, or either of his assistants, for information, as to a
fact, upon which the liability of himself, or any other person,
to serve as a trial juror, depends, and who refuses to give in
formation relating thereto, which he can give, or knowingly
gives false information relating thereto ; or a person who
knowingly makes to an assessor, or to the commissioner of
jurors, or a person acting by his authority, a false representa
tion as to the identity, residence, or any other matter, relatin"
to a juror, duly drawn, and placed on a panel to be notified"•
or who knowingly retains, conceals, suppresses, or willfully
destroys, a notice to attend, left at the residence or place ot
business of another, who has been drawn as trial juror is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 1161. A physician, who knowingly "ivcs a fa.se certif
icate, or makes a false representation, for the pur]>ose of
enabling or assisting a person, to be discharged, excused, or
exempted from service, as a trial juror in the county of
Kings, is guilty of misdemeanor.
§ 1162. The commissioner of jurors must make a yearly
report to the board of supervisors, of all proceedings had be
fore him, or by him in the discharge of his duties ; and he
must pay over to the county treasurer, at least once in each
three months, all money in his hands, which he has received
as commissioner.
§ 1163.' At the opening of a term of a court of record at
which issues of fact are to be tried by jury, the clerk must
cause ballots, uniform, as nearly as may be, in appearance (o
be prepared, by writing the name of each person, returned to
the term as a trial juror, with his proper additions, on a
separate piece of paper. He must roll up or fold each ballot,
in the same manner, as nearly as may be, so as to resemble
the others, and so that the name is not visible. The ballots
must be deposited in a sufficient box, from which they must
be drawn, as prescribed iu this article.
§ 1164. When an issue of fact, to be tried by a jury, is
brought to trial, the clerk, under the direction of the court,
must openly draw, out of the box, as many of the ballots, one
after another, as are sufficient to form a jury.
§ 1165. Before the first ballot is drawn, the box must be
closed and well shaken, so as thoroughly to mix the ballots; and the clerk must draw each ballot, without seeing the
name written on any of them, through an aperture, made in
the lid of the box, large enough only to admit his hand con
veniently.
§ 1166. [Am'd 1883.] The first twelve persons who ap
pear, as their names are drawn and called, and approved as
indifferent between the parties, and not discharged or ex
cused, must be sworn, and constitute the jury to try the issue.
Persons shall be disqualified from sitting as jurors if related
by consanguinity or affinity to a party to the issue in the
same cases in which judges are disqualified. The party re
lated to the juror must raise the objection before the ease is
opened ; but any other party to the issue may raise the objec
tion within six months from the date of verdict.
§1 167. The ballots, containing the names of the jurors so
sworn, must be then deposited in another box, and there
kept, apart from the other ballots, until that jury is dis
charged.
§ 1168. After that jury is discharged, the ballots con
taining their names must be again rolled up or folded, as pre
scribed in section eleven hundred and sixty-three of this act,
and returned to the box, from which they were first taken ;
and the same course must be pursued, as often as an issue is
brought to trial by a jury.
§ 1169. The ballot, containing the name of a juror, who
is absent, when his name is drawn or called, or is set aside, or
excused from serving on that trial, must be again rolled up
or folded, in the same manner as before, and returned to the
box, containing the undrawn ballots, as soon as the jnry is
sworn.
§ 1 170. If an issue is Drought to trial by a jury, while a
jury is empannelled in another cause, at the same term, and
not then discharged, the court may order a jury, for the trial
of that issue, to be drawn out of the box containing the ballots
then undrawn ; but, in any other case, the ballots, containing
the names of all the trial jurors, returned at, and attending
the term, must be placed together in the same box. before a
jury is drawn therefrom.
8 1171. [Am'd 1879.] ii a sufficient number of jurors,
duly drawn and notified, do not attend, or cannot De ob
tained, to form a trial jury, the court may, in any county
except Westchester, direct the sheriff to require the attend
ance of such a number of talesmen, from the bystanders, or
from the county at large, qualified to serve as trial jurors, as
it deems sufficient for the purpose. In Westchester county,
the court must direct, the sheriff to draw a sufficient number
of ballots from the first box, specified in section ten hundred
and thirty-eight of this act ; it there is not a sufficient number
of ballots remaining therein, to draw the residue from the sec
ond box, specilied ill section ten hundred and lifty-one of this
act. Iu any other county, except New York and Kings, it
may, in its discretion, instead of directing him to require
talesmen to attend, direct liiin to draw a sufficient number of
ballots from the third box, specilied in section ten hundred anil
fifty-two of this act. In either case, the sheriff must notify
the persons thus drawn to attend forthwith, or upon a day
fixed by the court. If for any reason a sufficient number of jurors to try the issue is not obtained, from the persons noti
fied, under an order made as prescribed in this section, the
court may make another order, or successive orders, until a
sufficient number is obtained ; and in making each order, tho
court may exercise the same discretion as in making the first
order.
§ 1172. In any county, except New York, Kings, or
Westchester, the court may also direct the sheriff to require
the attendance of such a number of qualified talesmen, for
the trial of an issue of fact, as it deems sufficient, where, by
reason of one or more juries being empaneled, or for any
other reason, no ballot remains undrawn ; or where, in conse?|uence of jurors being set aside, a juror cannot be obtained,
or the trial of that issue, from the list of those returned.
§ 1173. If, in a ease specified in the last two sections, the
sheriff is a party to the issue, the court must appoint a dis
interested person, to act in place of the sheriff. For that pur
pose, the person so appointed possesses all the powers, and is ■
subject to all the duties and liabilities of the sheriff, with re
spect to the matters specified in those sections.
§ 1174. The sheriff, or person appointed by the court,
must notify the requisite number of persons to attend, and
make return thereof, as prescribed in section ten hundred
and forty-eight of this act ; except that each person must be
required to attend forthwith. Each person so notified must
attend forthwith, and, unless excused by the court or set
aside, must serve as a juror upon the trial For a neglect or
refusal so to do, he may be fined, in the same manner as a
trial juror, regularly drawn and notified, as prescribed in this
chapter ; and he is subject to the same exceptions and chal
lenges, as any other trial juror.
§ 1175. [Am'd 1877.] It is not a valid objection to a
jury, procured as prescribed in the last four sections, that it
contains none of the jurors originally returned to the term, or
is only partially composed of such jurors.
§ 1176. [Am'd 1891, amendment to take effect September
1, 1891.] Upon the trial of an issue of fact, joined in a civil
action in a court of record, each party may peremptorily
challenge not more than four and in a court not or record each
party may peremptorily challenge not more than two of the
persons drawn as jurors for the trial.
§ 1177. It is not a good cause of challenge, to the panel
or array of trial jurors, in an action in a court of record, that
the officer who drew them is a party to, or interested in the
action, or counsel or attorney for, or related to, a party.
§ 1 178. It is not a good cause of challenge to the panel or
array of trial jurors, in an action in a court of record, that
they were notified to attend by an officer, who is a party to,
or interested in, the action, or related to a party ; unless it is
alleged in the challenge, and is established, that one or more
of tlie jurors drawn were not notified, and that the omission
was intentional.
§ 1 170. In a penal action, in a court of record, or not of
record, to recover a sum of money, it is not a good cause of
challenge to a trial juror, or to an officer who notified the trial
jurors, that the juror or the officer is liable to pay taxes,
in a city, town, or county, which may bo benefited by the re
covery.
§ 1180. [Am'd 1877.] An objection to the qualifications
121N.Y.112. of a juror is available only upon a challenge. A challenge of
a juror, or a challenge to the panel or array of jurors, must be
tried and determined by the court only. Either party may
except to the determination, and it may be reviewed, upon a
question of fact, or a question of law, or both, as where an
issue of fact presented by the pleadings is tried by the court ;
except that where one or more exceptions are taken, to the
rulings of the court, made after the jury is empaneled, an ex
ception to the determination of a challenge must be heard at
the same time ; and the case must contain the matters nec
essary to present it, upon the facts, or the law, or both.

§ 1181. Where a jury is empaneled to try an issue, to
make an inquiry, or to assess damages, in an action in a court
of record, or not of record, or in a special proceeding before
an officer, if the jurors cannot agree, after being kept to§ether, for such a time as is deemed reasonable, by the court
efore which, or the officer before whom, they were empauelled, the court or officer may discharge them, and issue a pre
cept for a new jury, or order another jury to be drawn, as
the case requires ; and the same proceedings must be had be
fore the new jury, as if it was the jury first empaneled.
§ 1182. It is not necessary, in an action in a court of
record, to call the plaintifff, wb»n the jurors are about to de
liver their verdict; and the plaintifff, in such an action, cannot
submit to a nonsuit, after the cause has been committed to the
jury, to consider of the verdict.
§ 1183. In an action to recover a sum of money only, if a
verdict is found, either in favor of the plaintifff, or in favor of
a defendant, who has set up a counterclaim for a sum of
money, the jury must assess the amount of damages. The
jury may also, under the direction of the court, assess the
amount of the damages, where the court directs judgment for
the plaintifff, on the pleadings.
§ 1 184. Where double, treble, or other increased dam
ages, are given by statute, single damages only are to be
found by the jury ; except in a case where the statute pre
scribes a different rule. The sum so found must be increased
by the court, and judgment rendered accordingly.
MN.Y.State
§ 1185. [. Im'd 1870.] Where, upon the trial of an issue
Rep. 662.
by a jury, the case presents only questions of law, the judge
may direct the jury to render a verdict, subject totheopin'"
ion of the court. Notwithstanding that such a verdict has
been rendered, the judge holding the trial term may, at the
same term, set aside the verdict, and direct judgment to be entered for either party, with like effect and in hue manner,
as if such a direction had been given at the trial. An ex
ception to such a direction may be taken as prescribed in sec
tion nine hundred and ninety-four of this act.
§ 1 186. A general verdict is one, by which the jury pro
nounces, generally, upon all or any of the issues, in favor
either of the plaintifff, or of the defendant. A special verdict
is one, by which the jury finds the facts only, leaving the
court to determine, which party is entitled to judgment there
upon.
§ 1 187. In an action to recover a sum of money only, or
real property, or a chattel, the jury may render a general or
a special verdict, in its discretion. In any other action, except where one or more specific questions of fact, stated un
der the direction of the court, are tried by a jury, the court
may direct the jury to find a special verdict, upon all or any
of the issues. Where the jury finds a general verdict, the
court may instruct it to find also specially, upon one or more,
questions of fact, stated in writing. The special verdict or'
special finding must be in writing ; it must be filed with the
clerk, and entered in the minutes.
§ 1188. "Where a special finding is inconsistent with a
general verdict, the former controls the latter, and the court
must render judgment accordingly.
§ 1189. [Am'd \8T7.] When the jury renders a verdict,
or finds upon one or more specific questions of fact, stated
under the direction of the court, the clerkmust make an entry
in his minutes, specifying the time and place of the trial ; the
names of the jurors and witnesses; the verdict, or the ques
tions and findings thereupon, as the case requires ; and the
direction, if any, which tne court gives, with respect to the
subsequent proceedings. Upon the application of the party
in whose favor a general verdict is rendered, the clerk must
enter judgment, in conformity to the verdict, unless a differ
ent direction is given by the court, or it is otherwise specially
prescribed by law.
§ 1190. A trial by a jury, of an issue of fact, joined in a
civil action, in a court of record, must be had, as prescribed
in this chapter ; except in a case where it is otherwise spec
ially prescribed by law. An alien is not entitled to a jury,
composed in part of aliens or strangers, in an action or spec
ial proceeding, civil or criminal.
§ 1191. A venire to procure jurors cannot be issued in a civil action, brought in a court of record, except as specially
prescribed by law.
§ 1192. A juror shall not be questioned, and is not sub
ject to an action, or other liability, civil or criminal, for a
verdict rendered by him, in an action in a court of record, or
not of record, or in a special proceeding before an officer, ex
cept by indictment, for corrupt conduct, in a case prescribed
by law.
§ 1193. A person, drawn or notified to attend, as a triiM
juror, in an action in a court of record, or not of record, or in
a special proceeding before an officer, who takes anything to
tender his verdict, or receives, from a party to the action or
special proceeding, a gift or gratuity, forfeits ten times the
sum, or ten times the value of that, which he took or received,
to the party to the action or special proceeding, aggrieved
thereby ; and is also liable to that party, for his damages
sustained thereby ; besides being subject to the punishment
prescribed by law.
§ 1 194. An embraceor, who procures a person, drawn or
notified to attend, as a trial juror, to take gain or profit, con
trary to the last section, forfeits ten times the sum, or ten
times the value of that, which was so taken, to the party ag
grieved thereby ; and is also liable to that party for his dam
ages sustained thereby ; besides being subject to the punish
ment, prescribed by law.
§ 1 195. A person, who has been lawfully and personally
notified to attend, as a trial juror, to inquire into a matter or
thing, or to hear and try a controversy, in a special proceed
ing, pending before a judge, justice of the peace, commis
sioner, or other officer, and who willfully neglects to attend,
as required by the notice, may be fined by the officer, in a
sum not exceeding twenty-five dollars. But this sectiou does
not extend to a case, where special provision is made by law,
for punishing the default of a trial juror.
§ 1 196. A sheriff, constable, or other officer, who notified
jurors to attend, in a case specified in the last section, must,
when directed by the officer, before whom the special pro
ceeding is pending, attend, and take charge of the jury. For
a willful neglect to obey such a direction, or for any miscon
duct, while attending the jury, by which a right or remedy of
a party to the special proceeding may be impaired or pre
judiced, he must be fined by that officer, in a sum not exceed
ing twenty-five dollars.
§ 1197. Where a fine is imposed, in a case specified in
the last two sections, written notice thereof must be served
upon the person fined, to the end that he may apply to the
officer imposing it, for the remission of the whole or a part
thereof, upon proof that he had a reasonable excuse for his
neglect or misconduct, or that other good cause exists for the
remission.
§ 1198. If, within thirty days after the service of the no
tice, the fine has not been remitted by the officer imposing it, he
must make a special return of the delinquency or misconduct,
for which the fine was imposed, and of the amount of the
line, accompanied with proof, by affidavit, of service of the
notice specified in the last section, to the next term of the
county court of the county, in which the delinquent resides.
§ 1199. The county clerk must deliver to the district at
torney, a copy of the return and of the affidavit, at the time
when he delivers to him copies of the minutes of fines, impos
ed by the county court. The fine must be collected, or it may
be remitted or reduced, in the same manner as a fine imposed
by the county court, upon a defaulting trial juror.i 1206. Judgment for or against
Definition of final judg
a married woman.
ment.
§ 1200. [Am?d 1877.] A judgment is either interlocu- l Month. L.
tory or the final determination of the rights of the parties in Bui. 29.
the action.
25 Hun, 587.
§ 1202. Judgment may be entered in term or vacation.
§ 1203. Judgment must be entered, in the first instance,
pursuant to the direction of the court, at a term held by one
judge ; except where special provision is otherwise made by
law.
§ 1 204. Judgment may be given for or against one or
more plaintifffs, and for or against one or more defendants.
It may determine the ultimate rights of the parties on the
same side, as between themselves ; and it may grant, to a defendant, any affirmative relief, to which he is entitled.
26 Hun, 619; 43 Id. 521.

60 How. Pr.
498.
47 N. Y.Super- ct- J- *
?t ii7*v
87W.Y.599.

§ 1205. Where the action is against two or more defend 1 Month. L.
ants, and a several judgment is proper, the court may, in its Bui. 14.
discretion, render judgment, or require the plaintifff to take
judgment, against one or more of the defendants ; and direct
that the action be severed, and proceed against the others, as
the only defendauts therein.
§ 1206. Judgment for or against a married woman, may
^e ren(iered an'l enforced, in a court of record, or not of record, as if she was single.
§ 1207. Where there is no answer, the judgment shall
not be more favorable to the plaintifff, than that demanded in
*^e o°mplamt. Where there is an answer, the court may perm"' 'ne P'am';'ff to take any judgment, consistent with the
case matle by the complaint, and embraced within the issue.
96 N.Y. 108 ; 5 N. Y. State Rep. 210 ; 15 Id. 644.
§ 1 208. Where either party is entitled to recover dam
ages, he may recover any rate of damages, which he might
have heretofore recovered, for the same cause of action.
§ 1200. [Am'd 1877.] A final judgment, dismissing the
complaint, either before or after a trial, rendered in an action
hereafter commenced, does not prevent a new action for the
same cause of action, unless it expressly declares or it ap
pears by the judgment-roll, that it is rendered upon the
merits.
77 N. Y. 615.
§ 1 2 1 0. Where a judgment for a sum of money, or direc
ting the payment of money, is entered against a party, after
his death, in a case where it may be so taken, by special pn>vision of law, a memorandum of the party's death must be
entered, with the judgment, in the judgment-book, indorsed
on the judgment-roll, and noted on the margin of the docket
of the judgment. Such a judgment does not become a lien
upon the real property, or chattels real, of the decedent ; but
it establishes a debt, to be paid in the course of administra
tion.
§ 1211. A judgment for a sum of money, rendered in a
court of record, or not of record, or a judgment rendered in a
court of record, directing the payment of money, bears inter:
est from the time when it is entered. But where a judgment
directs that money paid out shall be refunded or repaid, the
direction includes interest from the time when the money was
paid, unless the contrary is expressed.
§ 1212. [Arid 1877, 1879.] In an action sj>ecifled in sec
tion four hundred and twenty of this act, where the summons
was personally served upon the defendant, and a copy of the
complaint, or a notice stating the sum of money for which
judgment will be taken was served with the summons, or
where the defendant has appeared, but has made default in
{heading, the plaintifff may take judgment by default, as folows :

1. If the defendant has made default in appearing, the
plaintifff must file proof of the service of the summons, and of a
copy of the complaint or the notice ; and also proof, by affi
davit, that the defendant has not appeared. Whereupon the
clerk must enter final judgment in his favor.
2. If the defendant has seasonably appeared, but has made
default in pleading, the plaintifff must file proof of the service
of the summons and of the appearance, or of the appearance
only ; and also proof, by affidavit, of the default. Where
upon the clerk must enter final judgment in his favor.
If the defendant has made default in appearing or pleading,
and the case is not one where the clerk can enter final judg
ment, as prescribed in either of the foregoing subdivisions of
this section, the plaintifff must apply to the court for judg
ment, as prescribed in section twelve hundred and fourteen
of this act.
§ 1213. Where final judgment may be entered by the
clerk, as prescribed in the last section, the amount thereof
must be determined as follows :
1. If the complaint is verified, the judgment must be enter
ed for the sum, for which the complaint demands judgment ;
or, at the plaintifffs option, for a smaller sum ; and if a com
putation of interest is necessary it may be made by the
clerk.
2. If the complaint is not verified, the clerk must assess the
amount due to the plaintifff, by computing the sum due upon
an instrument for the payment of money only, the non-pay
ment of which constitutes a cause of action, stated in the
complaint ; and by ascertaining, by the examination of the
plaintifff, upon oath, or by other competent proof, the amount
due to him for any other cause of action, stated in the complaint. If an instrument, specified in this subdivision, has
been lost, so that it cannot be produced to the clerk, he must
take proof of its loss, and of its contents. Either party may
require the clerk to reduce to writing and file the assessment,
and the oral proof, if any, taken thereupon.
§ 1214. [Am'tHSH.] Where the summons was person
ally served upon the defendant, within the State, and he has
made default in appearing, or where the defendant has
appeared, but has made default in pleading ; and the case is
not one, where the clerk can enter final judgment, as pre
scribed in the last two sections, the plaintifff must apply to
the court for judgment. Upon the application he must file, if
the default was in appearing, proof of service of the sum
mons ; or, if the default was in pleading, proof of appearance
and also, if a copy of the complaint was demanded, proof of
service thereof, upon the defendant's attorney ; and in either
case, proof, by affidavit, of the default which entitles him to
judgment.
4Abb N C
gn.

§ 1215. [^4m'dl877.] The court must thereupon render
the judgment, to which the plaintifff is entitled. It may, with
out a jury, or with a jury, if one is present in court, make a
computation or assessment, or take an account, or proof of a
fact, for the purpose of enabling it to render the judgment or
to carry it into effect ; or it may, in its discretion, direct a
reference, or a writ of inquiry, for either purpose ; except
that where the action is brought to recover damages for a
personal injury, or an injury to property, the damages must
be ascertained by means of a writ of inquiry. Where a refer
ence or a writ of inquiry is directed, the court may direct,
that the report or inquisition be returned to the court for it.-.
further action ; or it may, in its discretion, except where
special provision is otherwise made by law, omit that direc
tion ; in which case, final judgment may be entered by the
clerk, in accordance with the report of the referee, or for the
damages ascertained by the inquisition, without any further
application.

6 Civ Pro
§ 1216. [Am'd 1877.] Where the summons was served
366 '
' upon the defendant without the State, or otherwise than per
sonally, if the defendant does not demand a copy of the coinplaint, or plead, as the case requires, within twenty dav>
after the service is complete, the plaintifff may apply to the
court for the judgment demanded in the complaint. Upon
such an application, he must file proof that the service is com
plete, and proof, by affidavit of the defendant's default. The
court must require proof of the cause of action, set forth in
the complaint to be made, either before the court, or before a
referee appointed for that purpose. If the defendant is a
non-resident, or a foreign corporation, tha court must require
the plaintifff, or his ageiit or attorney, to be examined on oatli.
respecting any payments to the plaintifff, or to any one for his
use, on account of his demand, and must render tin- judgment
to which the plaintifff is entitled. But before rendering judg
ment, the court may, in any case, in its discretion, require the
plaintifff to file an undertaking, to abide theorderof the court
touching the restitution of any estate or effects which may be
directed by the judgment to be transferred or delivered, or
the restitution of any money that may be collected under oby virtue of the judgment, in case the defendant or his reprosentative applies and is admitted to defend the action, and
succeeds in his defense.
§ 1217. [Arri'd 1877.] A judgment shall not be rendered
for a sura of money only, upon an application made pursuant
to the last section, except in an action specified in section six
hundred and thirty-five of this act. Where the defendant is
a non-resident, or a foreign corporation, and has not appear
ed, the plaintifff, upon the application for judgment in such an
action, must produce and file the following papers :
1. Proof, by affidavit, that a warrant of attachment, grant
ed in the action, has been levied upon property of the defend
ant.
2. A description of the property, so attached, verified by
affidavit ; with a statement of the value thereof, according to
the inventory.
3. The undertaking mentioned in section t welve hundred
and sixteen if one has been required.
§ 1218. [Am'd 1879.] A judgment by default shall not
be"taken against an infant defendant, until twenty days have
expired, since the appointment of a guardian ad litem for
him.
§ 1219. [.4m.'d 1879.] A defendant, against whom judgment is taken, pursuant to the foregoing sections of this
article,
is entitled
to notice,
as follows
: has made default in
1. If he
has appeared
generally,
but
pleading, he is entitled to at least five days' notice of the time
and place of an assessment by the clerk, and to at least eight
days' notice of the tune and place of an application to the
court for judgment.
2. In a case where an application for judgment must be
made to the court, the defendant may serve upon the plain
tiff's attorney, at any time before the application for judg
ment, a written demand of notice of the execution of any
reference, or writ of inquiry, which may be granted upon the
application. Such a demand is not an appearance in the
action. It must be subscribed by the defendant, in person, or
by an attorney or agent, who must add to his signature his
office address, with the particulars, prescribed in section four
hundred and seventeen of this act, concerning the office ad
dress of the plaintifff's attorney. Thereupon at least five
davs' notice of the time and place of the execution of the
reference, or writ of inquiry, must be given to the defendant,
by service thereof upon the person, whose name is subscribed
to the demand, in the manner prescribed in this act, for ser
vice of a paper upon an attorney in an action.
§ 1220. Where an issue of law and an issue of fact arise,
with respect to different causes of action, set forth in the
complaint, and final judgment can be taken, with respect to
one or more of the causes of action, without prejudice to
either party in maintaining the action, or a defense or coun
terclaim, with respect to the other causes of action, or in the
recovery of final judgment upon the whole issue, the court
may, in its discretion, and at any stage of the action, direct
that the action be divided into two or more actions, as the
ca-se requires.
§ 1221. [4m'<J1877.] Where one or more issues of law,
and one or more issues of fact, arise in the same action, and
all the issues have been tried, final judgment upon the whole
issue must be taken, as follows :
1. Where- an application must be made to the court, for
judgment upon the issue hist tried, the application must lie
for judgment, upon the whole issue ; and judgment must be
rendered accordingly.
2. Where the action is triable by a jury, and the issue last
tried is tried at a term of the court, the application for judg
ment, upon the whole issue, may be entertained, in the dis
cretion of the court, at that term, and with or without notice;
if not so entertained, it must be heard as a motion.
3. Where the issue last tried is tried before a referee, his
report must award the proper judgment upon the whole is
sue, unless otherwise prescribed in the order of reference.
8 1222. [Airid 1877, 1879.] Final judgment upon an issue
of law, where no issue of fact remains to be tried, and final
judgment has not been directed as prescribed in section ten
hundred and twenty-one of this act, may be entered upon ap
plication to the court, or by the clerk in an action specified m
section four hundred and twenty of this act.
§ 1223. [Am'd 1877.] Upon an application, by either
party, to the court, for final judgment, after the decision of
an issue of law, as prescribed in the last two sections, the
court has the power specified in section one thousand two
hundred and fifteen of this act, upon an application for judg
ment by the plaintifff. Where final judgment may be award
ed in a referee's report, as prescribed in section twelve hun
dred and twenty-one of this act, the referee may make a
computation, or an assessment, or take an account, or proof
of a fact, for the purpose of enabling him to award the proper
judgment, or enabling the court to carry it into effect ; and
he may ascertain and fix the damages, as a jury may do, upon the execution of a writ of inquiry.
§ 1224. [Amid 1877.] When an order or judgment is
wholly or partly affirmed upon an appeal to the general term,
and no issue of fact remains to be tried, the general term
may, in its discretion, render final judgment ; unless it per
mits the appellant to amend or plead over.
§ 1225. In an action triable by the court, where one or
more specific questions of fact, arising upon the issues, have
been tried by a jury, judgment may be taken, upon the appli
cation of either party, as follows :
1. If all the issues of fact in the action are determined by
the findings of the jury, or the remaining issues of fact have
been determined by the decision of the court, or the report of
a referee, an application for judgment, upon the whole issue,
may be made as upon a motion.
2. If one or more issues of fact remain to be tried, judg
ment may be rendered upon the whole issue, at the term of
the court where, or by direction of the referee by whom,
they are tried.
§ 1223. Where a reference has been made, to report up
on one or more specific questions of fact, arising upon the issue,
and the remaining issues have been tried, judgment must be
taken upon the application of either party, as prescribed in
section one thousand two hundred and twenty-one of this act.
§ 1227. Where a motion for a new trial, made in the
first instance at a general term, is denied, judgment may be
taken, as if the motion for a new trial had not been made, after the expiration of four days from the entry of the order,
and the service, upon the attorney for the adverse party, of
a copy thereof, and notice of the entry ; but not before.
§ 1228. [Amid 1879.] Where the whole Issue is an issue
of fact, which was tried by a referee, the report stands as a
decision of the court. Except where it is otherwise expressly
prescribed by law, judgment upon such a report, or ujxm the
decision of the court, upon the trial of the wnole issue of fart.
without a jury, may be entered by the clerk, as directed
therein, upon tiling the decision or rei>ort.
§ 1229. In an action to annul a marriage, or for a divorce or separation, judgment cannot be taken, of course, upon a referee's report, as prescribed in the last section, or
where the reference was made as prescribed in section one
thousand two hundred and fifteen of this act. Where a reference is made in such an action, the testimony, and the other
proceedings upon the reference, must be certified to the court,
by the referee, with his report ; and judgment must be ren
dered by the court.
§ 1230. [Amid 1877.] In a case, not provided for in the
foregoing sections of this article, where the decision, upon a
trial by the court, without a jury, or the report, upon a trial
by a referee, directs an interlocutory judgment to be entered,
and the party afterwards becomes entitled to a final judg
ment, an application for the latter may be made, as upon a
motion. And where a judgment requires the appointraeut of
a referee, to do any act thereunder, the referee must be uppointed by the judgment or by the court, upon motion, except
as otherwise prescribed in the next section.
§ 1231. In an action triable by the court, an interlocu
tory judgment, rendered upon a default in appearing or
pleading, or pursuant to the direction contained 111 a decision
or report, may state the substance of the final judgment, to
which the party will be entitled. It may also direct, that the
final judgment be settled by a judge, or a referee. In that
case, final judgment shall not be entered, until a settlement
thereof, subscribed by the judge or referee, is filed. Where
an interlocutory judgment awards costs, they may be award
ed generally, without specifying the amount thereof. Where
the final judgment is directed to be settled, and the costs
have not been taxed, when the settlement thereof is filed, a
blank for the amount of the costs must be left in the settle
ment ; and the costs must be taxed, and the blank filled up
accordingly, by the clerk, when the final judgmeut is entered.
§ 1232. Where a reference, or a writ of inquiry, directed
as prescribed in section one thousand and fifteen, or section
one thousand two hundred and fifteen of this act, has been
executed, either party may apply for an order, directing a
new hearing, or a new writ of inquiry, upon proof, by affi
davit, that error was committed, to his prejudice, upon the
hearing, or in the report, or upon the execution of the writ, or
in the inquisition. In a proper case, the application may be
granted, after judgment has been entered. In that case, the
judgment may be set aside, either then or after the new
bearing, or the execution of the new writ, as justice requires.
§ 1233. A motion for judgment, upon a special verdict,
■may be made by either party ; and must, in the first instance,
be heard and decided, at a term held by one judge.
§ 1234. A motion for judgment, upon a verdict subject
to the opinion of the court? may be made by either party ;
and must be heard and decided at the general term.
46 N Y Sup§ 1235. Where final judgment is rendered for a sum of
er. Ct. (J. & money, awarded by a verdict, report, or decision, interest
S.) 134.
upon the sum awarded, from the time when the verdict was
rendered, or the report or decision was made, to the time of
entering judgment, must be computed by the clerk, added
to'the sum awarded, and included in the amount of the judg
ment.
82 N. Y. 366;
§ 1 236. The clerk must keep, among the records of the
119Id. 153. court, a book for the entry of judgments, styled the "judg
ment-book." Each interlocutory or final judgment must be
entered in the judgment-book, and attested by the siguature
of the clerk ; who must note, in the margin of the entry, the
day and year of entering it. It must specify clearly the
relief granted, or other determination of the action, or of the
issue.
24NY State
§ 1237. [Am'd 1877, 1879.] The clerk, upon entering final
Hop. 229.
judgment, must immediately file the judgment-roll ; which
119N.Y. 153. must consist, except where special provision is otherwise
made by law, of the following papers : the summons ; the
pleadings, or copies thereof ; the final judgment, and the in
terlocutory judgment, if any, or copies thereof ; and each
paper on file, or a copy thereof, and a copy of each order,
which in any way involves the merits, or necessarily affects
the judgment. If judgment is taken by default, the judg
ment-roll must also contain the papers required to be filed,
upon so takiug judgment, or upon making application therefore;
together with any report, decision, or writ of inquiry, and
return thereto. If judgment is taken after a trial, the judg
ment-roll must contain the verdict, report, or decision ; each
offer, if any, made as prescribed in this act ; and the excep
tions or case, then on file.
82H.Y. 366.
§ 1238. The judgment-roll must be prepared, and fur
nished to the clerk, by the attorney, for the party, at whose
instance the final judgment is entered ; except that the clerk
must attach thereto the necessary original papers, on file.
But the clerk may, at his option, make up the entire judg
ment-roll.
§ 1230. The clerk must make a minute, upon the back of
each judgment-roll, filed in his office, of the time of filing it,
specifying the year, month, day, hour, and minute. A pro
ceeding to enforce or collect a final judgment, cannot be
taken, until the judgment-roll is filed.
25 Hun 587
§ 1240. In either of the following cases, a final judgment
' ' may be enforced by execution :
1. Where it is for a sum of money, in favor of either party ;
or directs. the payment of a sum of money.
2. Where it is in favor of the plaintifff, in an action of eject
ment, or for dower.
3. In an action to recover a chattel, where it awards a chat
tel to either party.
73 N. Y. 613.
§ 1241. In either of the following cases, a judgment may
25 Hunj 587; be enforced, by serving a certified copy thereof, upon the
29 Id. 030. party against whom it is rendered, or the officer or person,
who is required thereby, or by law, to obey it ; and, ir he refuses or willfully neglects to obey it, by punishing him for a 4 Ci» Pro
contempt of the court :
6
j 48
ro1. Where the judgment is final, and cannot be enforced bv "Hun, 351.
execution, as prescribed in the last section.
2. Where the judgment is final, and part of it cannot bo en
forced by execution, as prescribed in the lust section • in
winch case, the part or parts, which cannot be so enforced
may be enforced as prescribed in this section
'
3. Where the judgment is interlocutory, and requires a
party to do or to refrain from doing, an act ; except in a case
specified in the next subdivision.
4. Where the judgment requires the payment of money in
to court, or to an officer of the court; except where the
money is due upon a contract, express or implied, or as dam
ages for non-performance of a contract. In a case specified
in this subdivision, if the judgment is final, it may be en
forced as prescribed in this section, either simultaneously with
or before or after the issuing of au execution thereupon as
the court directs.
*^ '
| 1242. [ylm'ei 1877.] Except where special provision is
otherwise made by law, real property, adjudged to be sold,
must be sold in the county where it is situated, by the slu-iilf
of the county, or by a referee appointed by the court for that
purpose, who must execute a conveyance to the purchaser
The conveyance is effectual, to pass the right, title, or inter
est of a party adjudged to be sold. But nothing contained
in this section shall be deemed to repeal or modffy the pro
visions of any law specially regulating the sale of real prop
erty under a judgment or decree of any court in any partic£
lar county of the State.
J r
«§ 12f^' [■*»»'«* 1WM Where a referee is appointed by
the court, to sell real property, the court may provide for his
giving such security, as the court deems just, for the proper
application of the money received upon the sale; or for the
payment thereof by the purchaser, directly to the person or
persons entitled thereto, or their attorneys.
J& J244; lAni'd lm' 187?-] A ^eyance of property,
sold by virtue of an execution, or sold pursuant to ajud- 12 Hun, 577.
men*> wnich specifies the particular party or parties whoso
right, title or interest is directed to be sold, must distinctly
state, in the granting clause thereof, whose ri<»ht title or
interest was sold, and is conveyed, without nam?ng, in that
clause, any of the other parties to the action ; otherwise the
purchaser is not bound to accept the conveyance and the' offi
cer executing it is liable for the damages, which the purchaser
sustains by the omission, whether he accepts or refuses to ac
cept it.
ARTICLE THIRD.
Docketing a Judgment ; Effect thereof as a Lien upon
real Property; suspending and discharging the
Lien ; bATiSFACTiON and Assignment of a Judgment.
I 1245. Certain clerks to keep
\ 1260. .Judgment not lobe h lien
docket-books. j
■ aooKeied.
•
■•-..* t i V f i .
until
uour docketed.
!21£- |«; '°«»ocketjiidgment8.
1261. Real property bound for
1247. Filing; transcripts, and
ten' years iy a j udgdocketing judgments
ment thus docketed
.„.«, » thereon.
1252. Real properly may be
1248. Penalty for clerk's neglevied upon after ten
1349. Dockets to be public.

1263. Land held under cob§ 1245. Each county clerk, each clerk of a superior city
Oonsol.Aet. court, and the clerk of the murine court of the city of New
York, must keep one or more books, ruled iu columns, con
venient for making the entries, prescribed in the next section;
in which he must docket, in its regular order and according
to its priority, each judgment, which he is required by this
article to docket. The expense of procuring a new boob,
when necessary, is a county charge.
§ 1246. Each clerk, specified in the last section, must,
when he files a judgment-roll, upon a judgment, rendered in
a court of which he is clerk, docket the judgment, by enter
ing, in the proper docket-book, the following particulars,
under the initial letter of the surname of the judgment debtor,
in its alphabetical order :
1. The name, at length, of the judgment debtor ; and also
his residence, title, and trade or profession, if any of them
are stated in the judgment.
2. The name of the party, in whose favor the judgment was
rendered.
3. The sum, recovered or directed to be paid, in figures.
4. The day, hour, and minute, when the judgment-roll was
filed.
5. The day, hour, and minute, when the judgment was
docketed in his office.
(5. The court in which the judgment was rendered, and if it
was rendered in the supreme court, the county where the
judgment-roll is filed.
7. The name of the attorney for the party recovering the
judgment.
It there are two or more judgment debtors, those entries
must be repeated, under the initial letter of the surname of
each.
§ 1247. A clerk, with whom a judgment-roll is filed, up
on a judgment docketed as prescribed in the last section,
must furnish, to any person applying therefore, and paying tinfees allowed by law, one or more transcripts of the docket
of the judgment, attested by his signature. A county clerk,
to whom such a transcript is presented, must, upon payment
of his tees therefore, immediately file it, and docket the judg merit, as prescribed in the last section, in the appropriate
docket-book, kept in his office.
§ 1248. A clerk who omits, as soon as practicable, to
docket a judgment required to be docketed, or to furnish a
transcript of a judgment so docketed in his office, as pre
scribed mthe last two sections, forfeits, to the person aggriev
ed, two hundred and fifty dollars, in addition to the damages
sustained by reason of the omission.
§ 1249. A docket-book, kept, by a clerk, must be kept
open, during the business hours fixed by law, for search aud
examination by any person.
§ 1250. A judgment, required to be docketed, as pre
scribed in this article, neither affects real property or chattels
real, nor is entitled to a preference, until tlie judgment-roll
is filed, and the judgment docketed.
§ 1251. Except as otherwise specially prescribed by law, 2 Month L
a judgment, hereafter rendered, which is docketed in a county Bnl. si.
clerk's office, as prescribed in this article, binds, and is a 2flN.Y.State
charge upon, for ten years after tiling the judgment-roll and Rel' 17;1no longer, the real property and chattels real in that county,
"'• m
which the judgment debtor has, at the time of so docketing
it, or which he acquires at any time afterwards, aud within
the ten years.
§ 1252. When ten years after filing the judgment-roll
have expired, real property or a chattel real, which the judg
ment debtor, or real property which a person, deriving his
right or title thereto, as the heir or devisee of the judgment
debtor, then has, in any county, may be levied upon, by viitue
of an execution against, property, issued to the sheriff of that
county, upon a judgment hereafter rendered, by filing, with
the clerk of that county, a notice, subscribed by the sheriff
describing the judgment, the execution, and the property
levied upon ; and, if the interest levied upon is that of an lien
or devisee, specifying that fact, and the name of the heir or
devisee. The notice must be recorded and indexed by the
clerk, as a notice of the pendency of an action. For that pur
pose, the judgment debtor, or his heir or devisee, named in
the notice, is regarded as a party to an action. The judgment
binds, and becomes a charge upon, the right and title thus
levied upon, of the judgment debtor, or of his heir or devisee,
as the case may be, only from the time of recording and in
dexing the notice, and until the execution is set aside, or re
turned.
§ 1253. The interest of a person, holding a contract for „
the purchase of real property, is not bound by the docketing „ , .,n,e
of a judgment ; and cannot be levied upon or sold, by virtue
'''
of an execution issued upon a judgment.
§ 1254. Where real property is sold and conveyed, and,
at the same time, a mortgage thereupon is given by the pur
chaser, to secure the payment of the whole or a part of the
purchase-money, the hen of the mortgage, upon that real
property, is superior to the lien of a previous judgment against
the purchaser.
§ 1255. The time, during which a judgment creditor is
stayed, by an injunction or other order, or by the operation
of an appeal, or by express provision of law, from enforcing a
judgment, is not a part of the ten years, to which the lien of a judgment is limited by this article. But this section does
not extend the time of the lien, as against a purchaser, cred
itor, or mortgagee in good faith.
87N-Y. 10.
g 1256. Where an appeal from a judgment has been per("481
fected, and an undertaking has been given, sufficient to en38 Han 637 title the appellant to a stay of the execution of the judgment,
'
' without an order for that purpose, the court in which the
judgment was recovered, may, in its discretion, and upon
such terms as justice requires, make an order, upon notice to
the attorney for the respondent, and to the sureties in the
undertaking, exempting from the lien of the judgment, as
against judgment creditors, and purchasers and mortgagees
in good faith, the real property or chattels real, upon which
the judgment is a lien, or a portion thereof, specifically des
cribed in the order. If all the property, subject to the hen, Is
so exempted, the order must direct the clerk, in whose office
the judgment-roll is Hied, to make an entry, on the docket of
the judgment, in each place where it appears in the docketbook, substantially as follows : " Lien suspended upon appeal.
Bee order entered ; " adding the proper date. If a portion
only is exempted, the order must direct the clerk to make, in
like manner, an entry, substantially as follows : " Lien parti
ally suspended upon appeal. See order entered ; " adding the
proper date. The clerk must, when he files the motion papers,
and enters the order, make the entry or entries in the docketbook, as required by the order.
§ 1257. Where an order is made, as prescribed in the
last section, by the supreme court or by a county court, it
operates as a suspension of the lien upon property situated in
the county, where the judgment-roll is filed, from the time
when the order is entered, and the proper entry made in the
docket-book. If the property exempted is situated in another
county, or if the order was made by a court, other than the
supreme court or a county court, the order operates as a sus
pension, from the time, when the proper entry is made in the
docket-book, kept by the clerk of that county, as prescribed
in the next section.
§ 1258. The clerk, with whom the order is entered,
must, upon payment of his fees therefore, furnish to the party
who obtained the order, one or more transcripts, attested by
his signature, of the docket of the judgment, including the
entry made upon the docket. A county clerk, in whose office
the judgment is docketed, must, upon payment of his fees
therefore, immediately file such a transcript ; and make an
entry upon the docket of the judgment, in each place where
it appears in his docket-book, substantially as follows : " Lien
suspended," or, " Lien partially suspended," according to the
entry upon the original docket, and also, " See transcript
filed ;" adding the proper date.
87 N. Y. 10.

§ 1259. At any time after a judgment, which has ceased
to be a lien, as prescribed in the last three sections, is affirm
ed, or the appeal therefrom is dismissed, the lien thereof may
be restored, as follows :
1. The clerk, in whose office the judgment of affirmance, or
the order dismissing the appeal, is entered, must, upon the
request of the judgment creditor, docket the judgment ujiew,
as it was originally docketed, but in the order of priority of
the new docket ; and he must write upon the new docket, tho words, " Lien restored by redocket ; " adding the date of redocketing.
2. A transcript of the new docket must be furnished to a
county clerk, in whose office an entry of the suspension of the
lien has been made, as prescribed in the last two sections ;
and thereupon the Judgment must be docketed by him anew,
in the order of the priority of the new docket. The clerk who
so redockets the judgment, must make an entry upon the
new docket, substantially as follows : " Lien restored by redocket. See transcript filed ; " adding the date of redockctingin his county.
The lien of the judgment is thereupon restored, for the un
expired period thereof, as if the order had not been made ;
but with like effect only, as against judgment creditors, pur
chasers, and mortgagees in good faith, as if the judgment had
then been first docketed.
§ 1260. The docket of a judgment must be cancelled and
discharged by the clerk, in whose office the judgment-roll is
filed, upon filing with him a satisfaction-piece, describing the
judgment, and executed as follows :
1. Except as otherwise prescribed in the next subdivision,
the satisfaction-piece must De executed by the party, in whose
favor the judgment was rendered, or his executor or adminis
trator ; or, if it is made within two years after the filing of
the judgment-roll, by the attorney of record of the party.
But where the authority of the attorney has been revoked, a
satisfaction by him is not conclusive, against the person en
titled to enforce the judgment, in respect to a person, who
had actual notice of the revocation, before a payment on the
judgment was made, or a purchase of property bound there
by was effected.
2. If an assignment of the judgment, executed by the party
in whose favor it was rendered, or his executor or adminis
trator, has been filed in the clerk's office, the satisfactionpiece must be executed by the person, who appears, from the
assignment, or from the last of the subsequent assignments,
if any, so filed, showing a continuous chain of title, to be the
owner of the judgment ; or by his executor or admistrator.
3. If the satisfaction-piece is executed by an attorney in
fact, in behalf of a person authorized to execute it, other than
the attorney of record, an instrument, containing a power to
acknowledge the satisfaction, must be filed with the satisfac
tion-piece, unless it has been recorded, in the proper book for
recording deeds, in that or another county ; in which case, the
satisfaction-piece must refer to the record, and t he clerk may,
for his own indemnity, require evidence of a record remain
ing in another office.
The execution of each satisfaction-piece or power of attor
ney must be acknowledged, before the clerk, or his deputy,
and certified by him thereupon ; or it must be acknowledged
or proved, and certified, in like manner as a deed to be re
corded in the county where it is filed.
§ 1261. The person, entitled to enforce a judgment, must
execute, and acknowledge before the proper officer, n satis
faction-piece thereof, at the request of the judgment debtor,
or of a person interested in property bound by the judgment,
upon presentation of a satisfaction-piece, and payment of the
sum due upon the judgment, and the fees allowed by law for
taking the acknowledgment of a deed.
§ 1232. A person, who has heretofore executed, or here after executes, a written assignment of a judgment, owned
by him, without acknowledging the executed* thereof, before
an officer authorized to take the acknowledgment of a deed,
must so acknowledge it, at the request of his assignee, or
of a subsequent assignee thereof, or of the judgment debtor,
upon presentation of the assignment, and payment of the
officer's fees.
fcj 1263. A resident of the State, or a person having an
office within the State, for the regular transaction of business
iu person, who becomes the owner of a judgment, by virtue
of a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or of an
appointment as a receiver, or trustee or assignee of an insol
vent debtor or bankrupt, may file with the clerk, iu whose
office the judgment-roll is filed, a notice of the assignment, or
of his appointment, and of his ownership of the judgment.
The notice must be subscribed by him, adding to his signature
his place of residence, and also, if he resides without the
State, his office address. A notice so filed has the same force
and effect, for the purposes of this article, as if it was au as
signment of the judgment.
§ 1264. Where an execution is returned, wholly or part ly
satisfied, the clerk must make an entry of the satisfaction, or
partial satisfaction, in the docketof the judgment, upon which
it was issued. Thereupon the judgment is deemed satisfied, to
the extent of the amount returned as collected, unless the re
turn is vacated by the court.
§ 1265. Where an execution is returned wholly unsatis
fied, the clerk must immediately make, in the docket of the
judgment, upon which it was issued, an entry of the fact,
stating the time when the execution was returned.
§ 1266. A sheriff, upon being paid the full amount due
upon an execution in his hands, must immediately indorse
thereupon a return of satisfaction thereof. He must ulso de
liver, to the person making the payment upon the latter's
request, and payment of the fees allowed by law therefore, a
certified copy of' the execution, and of the return of satisfac
tion thereupon; which may be filed with the clerk of the
same county, who must thereupon cancel and discharge the
docket of the judgment, as if the judgment-roll was filed in
his office, and the execution was returned to him, as satisfied.
But this section does not exonerate the sheriff, from his duty
to return the execution, to the clerk with whom the judgmeutroll is filed.
§ 1267. The clerk of a county, with whom a judgment
has been docketed, must cancel and discharge the docket
thereof, upon the filing, with him, of a certificate of the
clerk, with whom the judgment-roll is filed, showing that the
judgment has been reversed, vacated, or satisfied of record;
or the certificate of the clerk of the county, with whom u copy
of an execution, and of a return of satisfaction thereupon,
have been filed, as prescribed in the last section, showing that
they have been so filed, and the docket cancelled uud dis
charged accordingly.
Csan! N'
§ 1268. At any time after two years have elapsed, since
14 Hun,' 685. a bankrupt was discharged from his debts, pursuant to the
* So in original.
acts of Congress relating to bankruptcy, he may apply, U|K>n
proof of his discharge, to the court in which a judgment wns
rendered against him, for an order, directing the judgment
to be cancelled and discharged of record. If it appears that
he order
has been
discharged
from the payment
of that judgment,
an
must
be made accordingly
; and thereupon
the clerk
must cancel and discharge the docket thereof, as if the prop
er satisfaction-piece of the judgmeut was filed. Notice 01
the application, accompanied with copies of the papers upou
which it is made, must be given to the judgment creditor, un
less his written consent to the granting of the order, with
satisfactory proof of the execution thereof, and, if he is not
the party in whose favor the judgment was rendered, that he
is the owner thereof, is presented to the court, upon the ap
plication.
§ 1209. A court of record has the same power and juris
diction, concerning the docket of its judgments, kept by a
county clerk, which it has concerning the docket, kept by its
own clerk. It may direct that such a docket be amended ; or
that its judgment, there docketed, be docketed nunc pro
tunc.
§ 1270. Upon the presentation, to the clerk of a court of
record, of an assignment of a judgment, entered in his office,
executed by a person entitled to satisfy the judgment, as
prescribed in section one thousand two hundred and sixty of
this act, and otherwise executed as prescribed in that section,
with respect to a satisfaction-piece, and upon payment of the
fees, allowed by law, for filing a transcript, and docketing a
judgment thereupon, the clerk must forthwith file the assign
ment in his office, and make, upon the docket of the judgment,
an entry of the fact, and of the day of filing ; or, if he keeps
a separate book for the entry of assignments of judgments,
an entry, referring to the page of the book, where the filing
of the assignment is noted.
§ 1271. Repealed 1870.
§ 1272 This article applies only to a judgment wholly
or partly for a sum of money, or directing the payment of a
sum of money ; and to an execution issued upou such a judg
ment.
127C. Judgment roll; doeke§ 1273. [AnCd 1877.] A judgment by confession may be
altered without action, either for money due or to become
lue, or to secure a person against contingent liability in beialf of the defendant, or both, as prescribed in this article.
<V married woman may confess such a judgment if the debt
was contracted for the benefit of her separate estate, or in the course of any trade or other business, carried on by ber
on her sole and separate account.
27 Hun 601.
§ 1274. A written statement must be made and signed
by the defendant, to the following etfect :
1. It must state the sum, for which judgment may be en
tered, and authorize the entry of judgment therefore.
2. If the judgment to be confessed is for money due or to
i'si
P become due, it must state concisely the facts, out of which
117 N.Y. 439. *'ne d^t arose ; and must show, that the sum confessed there
for is justly due, or to become due.
8. If the judgment to be confessed is for the purpose of se
curing the plaintifff, against a contingent liability, it must
state concisely the facts, constituting the liability ; and must
show, that the sum confessed therefore does not exceed the
amount of the liability.
The statement must be verified by the oath of the defend
ant, to the effect, that the matters of fact therein set forth are
true.
§ 1275. At any time within three years after the state
ment, is verified, it may be filed with a county clerk, or with
the clerk of a superior city court, or, where the sum, for
which judgment is confessed, does not exceed two thousand
dollars, exclusive of interest from the time of making the
statemeut, with the clerk of the marine court of the city of New
York. Thereupon the clerk must enter, in like manner as a
judgment is entered in an action, a judgment for the sum con
fessed, with costs, which he must tax, to the amount of fifteen
dollars, besides disbursements taxable in an action. If the
statement is filed with a county clerk, the judgment must be
entered in the supreme court ; if it is filed with the clerk of
another court, specified in this section, the judgment must be
entered in the court of which he is clerk. But a judgment
shall not be entered upon such a statement, alter the defend
ant's death.
§ 1276. {Am'd 1879.] The clerk, immediately after en
tering the judgment, must attach togather* and file the state
ment, as verified, and a copy of the judgment, which consti
tute the judgment-roll. The judgment may be docketed, and
enforced against property, in the same manner, and with the
same effect, as a judgment in an action, rendered in the same
court ; and each provision of law, relating to a judgment in
an action, and the proceedings subsequent thereto, apply to u
judgment thus takeu.
„„„. rj.,
8 1277. Where the debt, for which the judgment isrendered, is not all due, execution may be issued, upon the judg
ment, for the collection of the sum which has become due.
The execution must be in the form prescribed by law, for an
execution upon a judgment for the full amount recovered ;
but the person whose name is subscribed to it, must indorse
thereupon a direct ion to the sheriff, to Collect only the sum
due, stating the amount thereof, with interest thereon, ami
the costs of the judgment. Notwithstanding the issuing and
collection of such an execution, the judgment shall remain as
security for the sum or sums to become due, after the execu
tion is issued. When a further sum becomes due, an execu
tion may, in like manner, be issued for the collection thereof ;
and successive executions may be issued, as further sums be
come due.
* §o in original,
§ 1278. One or more joint debtors may confess a judg
ment for a joint debt, clue or to become due. Where all the
joint debtors do not unite in the confession, the judgment
must be entered and enforced against those only who confess
ed it ; and it is not a bar to an action agaiust all the joint
debtors, upon the same demand.
20 Abb. N. C. 321 ; 20 N. V. State Rep. 258.
ARTICLE SECOND.
Submission of a Controversy, upon Facts admitted.
J 12/0. Controversy, how submitcomes an action.
ted without prpcess.
g 1281. Subsequent proceedings
1280. Papers to be filed ; conregulated,
trovers}' thereupon be§ 1279. The parties to a question in difference, which
might be the subject of nn action, being of full age, may
agree upon a case, containing a statement of the facts, upon
which the controversy depends ; and may present a written
submission thereof to a court of record, which would have
jurisdiction of an action, brought for the same cause. The case
must be accompanied with the affidavitofone of the parties, to
the effect, that the controversy is real ; and that the submis
sion is made in good faith, for the purpose of determining the
rights of the parties. The submission must be acknowledged
or proved, and certified, in like manner as a deed, to be re
corded in the county where it is filed.
§ 1280. The case, submission, and affidavit, must be filed
in the office of the clerk of the court, to which the submission
is made. If the submission is made to the supreme court,
they must be filed in the office of the county clerk, if any,
specified in the submission ; if no county clerk is so specified,
they may be filed in the office of any county clerk. The fil
ing is a presentation of the submission; and thenceforth the
controversy becomes an action ; and each provision of law,
relating to a proceeding in an action, applies to the subse
quent proceedings therein, except as otherwise prescribed in
the next section.
§ 1281. An order of arrest, an injunction, or a warrant
of attachment, cannot be granted in such an action : the costs
thereof are always in the discretion of the court, but costs
cannot be taxed, for any proceedings before notice of trial ;
the action must be tried by the court, upon the case alone:
and the case, submission, affidavit, and a certified copy of the
judgment, and of any order or paper, necessarily affecting
the judgment, constitute the judgment-roll. If the action is
in the supreme court, a superior city court, or the marine
court of the city of New "York, it must "be tried, and judgment
rendered at the general term. If the statement of facts con
tained in the case, is not sufficient to enable the court to ren
der judgment, an order must be made dismissing the submis
sion, without costs to either party ; unless the court permits
the parties, or, in a proper case, their representatives, to file
an additional statement, which it may do, in its discretion,
without prejudice to the original statement.
TITLE IIL
Vacating or setting aside a judgment, for irregularity or
error in fact.
g 1282. Motion to set aside judg
ment for irregularity ;
when it may be heard.

\ 1283. Motion to set aside judg
ment for error in fact ;
when it may be made
by party
§ 1282. A motion to set aside a final judgment, for irregularity, shall not be heard, after the expiration of one
year since the filing of the judgment-roll ; unless notice thereof is given for a day within the year, and either the hearing
js adjourned, by one or more orders, until after the expiration
of the year ; or the term, for which it is thus»noticed^ is not
held. In the latter event, the motion may be re-noticed for
and heard at, the next term at which it can be made, held not
less than ten days after the day, when the first term was ap
pointed to be held.
§ 1283. A motion to set aside a final judgment, rendered
in a court of record, for error in fact, not arising upon the
trial, may be made by the party against whom it is rendered;
or, if an execution has not been issued thereon, and the judg
ment has not been wholly or partly satisfied or enforced, by
the party in whose favor it is rendered.
§ 1284. A like motion may be made, after the death of a
party entitled to make it, as prescribed in the last section, by
the following persons ;
1. Where the judgment awards a sum of money, or a chat
tel, or an interest in real property, which is declared by law
to be assets, the motion may be made by his executor or ad
ministrator.
2. Where the judgment awards real property, or the pos
session thereof, or where the title to or an estate or interest in
real property is determined or affected thereby, the motion
may oe made by the heir of the decedent, to whom the real
property descended, or might have descended, or by the per
son to whom he devised it.
3. Where the judgment is rendered against or in favor of
two or more persons, the motion may be made, jointly, by the
survivor, and the person who would have been entitled to
make it, if the judgment had been rendered in favor of or
against the decedent only.
§ 1 285. A motion may be made, either before or after
the death of the defendant, by a person, who is not a party,
to set aside, for error in fact, not arising upon the trial,' a
judgment, rendered in an action against a tenant for life, or
for years, awarding real property, or the possession of real
property, in which the person making the motion has an
estate, or interest, in reversion or remainder.
§ 1 286. Where t wo or more persons are ent it led to move
to set aside a judgment, as prescribed in the last three sec
tions, one or more of them may move separately ; but, in that
case, notice of the motion must be given to those who do not
join therein, in like manner as if they were adverse parties.
§ 1287. Notice of a motion to set aside a final judgment,
for error in fact, not arising upon the trial, must be given to
the adverse party, or, in case of his death, to each person who
might have moved, as against the moving party, to set aside the judgment for the same cause, as prescribed in this title.
Where the motion is made by the party against whom the
judgment is rendered, or by his heir, devisee, executor, or ad
ministrator, service of the notice, upon the attorney of record
for the party, in whose favor the judgment is rendered, has
the like effect, as if it was served upon the party.
§ 1288. Where the judgment awards real property, or
the possession thereof, or where the title to, or an estate or
interest in, real property is determined or affected thereby,
and the real property, or estate, or interest therein, has been
conveyed, by the adverse party, more than eight days before
the hearing of the motion, notice of the motion must also be
given to each actual occupant of the property, claiming under
the conveyance.
§ 1280. Notice must be given, in a case specified in this
title, by personal service of a written notice, or of an order to
show cause why the motion should not be granted ; or, if a
person entitled to notice cannot, with due diligence, be found
within the State, in any manner which the court, or a judge
thereof, directs in an order to show cause, or which the court
directs in a subsequent order.
§ 1 290. A motion to set aside a final judgment, for error
in fact, not arising upon the trial, shall not be heard, except
as specified in the next section, after the expiration of two
years since the fllingof the judgment^roll, unless notice thereof is given, for a day within the two years ; and either the
hearing is adjourned, by one or more orders, until after the
expiration of the two years ; or the term, for which it is thus
noticed, is not held. In the latter event, the motion may be
re-noticed for, and heard at, the next term at which it can be
made, held not less than ten days after the day, when the
first term was appointed to be held.
§ 1 29 1 . If the person against whom the judgment is ren
dered, is, at the time of filing the judgment-roll, either
1. Within the age of twenty-one years ; or
2. Insane ; or
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution, upon
conviction of a criminal offense, for a term less than for hfe ;
The time of such a disability is not a part of the time, limit
ed by the last section ; except that the time within which the
motion may be heard, cannot be extended more than five
years by such a disability nor, in any case, more than one
year after the disability ceases.
§ 1292. Where a judgment is set aside for any cause,
upon motion, the court may direct and enforce restitution, in
like manner, with like effect, and subject to the same condi
tions, as where a judgment is reversed upon appeal.
§ 1293. The writ of error in a civil action or special pro
ceeding hus been abolished.
§ 1294. A party aggrieved may appeal, in a case pre
110N.Y.602. scribed in this chapter, except where the judgment or order,
of which he complains, was rendered or made upon his de
fault.
•>i n
§ 1295." The party or person appealing is designated as
loo N?' 243. tne appellant, and the adverse party as the respondent. After
"
an appeal is taken to another court, the name of the appellate
court must be substituted, for that of the court below, in the
title of the action or special proceeding, and in any case, the
name of the county, if it is mentioned, may be omitted ; other-wise the title shall not be changed, in consequence of the ap
peal.
§ 1296. A person aggrieved, who is not a party, V>ut is
entitled by law to be substituted, in place of a party ; or
who has acquired, since the making of the order, or the ren
dering of the judgment appealed from, an interest, which
would have entitled him to be so substituted, if it had been
previously acquired, may also appeal, as prescribed in this
chapter, for an appeal by a party. But the appeal cannot be
heard until he has oeen substituted in place of the party ; and
if he unreasonably neglects to procure an order of substitu
tion, the appeal may be dismissed, upon motion of the re
spondent.
§ 1297. Where the adverse party has died, since the
making of the order, or the rendering of the judgment ap
pealed from, or where the judgment appealed from was
rendered, after his death, in a case prescribed by law, an
appeal may be taken, as if he was living ; but it cannot be
heard, until the heir, devisee, executor, or administrator, as
the case requires, has been substituted as the respondent. In
such a case, an undertaking required to perfect the appeal,
or to stay the execution of the judgment or order appealed
from, must recite the fact of the adverse party's death ; and
the undertaking enures, after substitution, to the benefit of
the person substituted.
§ 1298. [Am'd 1877.] Where either party to an appeal
dies, before the appeal is heard, or has heretofore died, and
the appeal has not been heard, if an order, substituting another
person in his place, is not made, within three months after his
death, or, where he has heretofore died, within three months
after this section takes effect, the court, in which the appeal
is pending, may, in its discretion, make an order, requiring
all persons interested in the decedent's estate, to show cause
before it, why the judgment or order appealed from should
not be reversed or affirmed, or the appeal dismissed, as the
case requires. The order must specify a day, when cause is
to be shown, which must be not less than six months after
making' the order ; and it must designate the mode of giving
notice to the persons interested. Upon the return day of the
order, or at a subsequent day, appointed by the court, if the
proper person has not been substituted, the court, upon proof,
by affidavit, that notice has been given, as required by the or
der, may reverseoraffirmthe judgment or order appealed from
or dismiss the appeal, or make such further order in the prem
ises, as justice requires.
§ 1 299. Where the appeal is from one court to another,
an application for an order of substitution, as prescribed by
the last three sections, must be made to the appellate court.
Where personal service of notice of application for an order
has been made, within the State, upon the proper represen
tatives of the decedent, an order of substitution may be made,
upon the application of the surviving party.
§ 1300. An appeal must be taken, by serving, upon the
attorney for the adverse party, as prescribed in article third
of title sixth of chapter eighth of this act, and upon the clerk,
with whom the judgment or order appealed from is entered,
by filing it in his office, a written notice, to the effect, that
the appellant appeals from the judgment or order, or from a
specified part thereof.
§ 1301. Where the appeal is from a flna, judgment or
j.j! | j i5e.' from a final order iu a special proceeding, and the appellant
intends to bring up, for review thereupon, an interlocutory
judgment, or an intermediate order, he must, in the notice of
appeal, distinctly specify the interlocutory judgment, or in
termediate order, to be reviewed.
§ 1302. If the attorney for the adverse party is dead ; or
if he has been removed, and notice of the removal has been
served upon the appellant's attorney, and another attorney
has not been substituted in his place ; or if, for any reason,
service of a notice of appeal, upon the proper attorney for the
adverse party, cannot, with due diligence, be made within
the State, the notice of appeal may be served upon the re
spondent, in the manner prescribed by law for servin" it
upon an attorney. If personal service upon the respondent
cannot, with due diligence, be so made within the State,
the notice of appeal may be served upon him, and notice
of the subsequent proceedings may be given to him, as di
rected by a judge of the court, in or to which the appeal is
taken.
§ 1303. Where the appellant, seasonably and in good
12 Hun, 394. faith, serves the notice of appeal, either upon the clerk or
0 Week.Dig. upon the adverse party, or his attorney, but omits, through
'■|45mistake, inadvertance, or excusable neglect, to serve it upon
<jia Wtne otner> or to do any other act, necessary to perfect the ap2411 un 642 peal, or to stay the execution of the judgment or order ap5N.Y.Suppi pealed from; the court, in or to which the appeal is taken,
447'
upon proof, by affidavit, of the facts, may, in its discretion,
permit the omission to be supplied, or an amendment to be
made, upon such terms as justice requires.
§ 1304. An appeal cannot be taken from an order made
by a judge, out of court, until it is entered in the office of the
proper clerk. Where such an order has not been so entered,
or the papers, upon which it was founded, have not been Hied
in the same clerk's office, the judge who made, or, if he is ab
sent, or unable or disqualified to act, a judge of the court, in
or to which an appeal therefrom may be taken, must, upon
the application of a party or other person, eutitled to take
such an appeal, make an order, requiring the omission to be
supplied, within a specified time after service of a copy of
the order made by him. Upon proof, by affidavit, thata copy
of the latter order has been served, and that the omission has
not been supplied, the same judge may make, upon notice, an
order revoking and annulling the original order. The pro
visions of the last section but one apply to the service of an
order, or a notice, as prescribed in this section.
§ 1305. An undertaking, which the appellant is required
by this chapter, to give, or any other act which he is so re^
quired to do, for the security of the respondent, may be
waived by the written consent of the respondent.
§ 1306. Where the appellant is required, by this chapter,
to give an undertaking, he may, in lieu thereof, deposit with
the clerk, with whom the judgment or order appealed from is
entered, a sum of money, equal to the amount, for which the
undertaking is required to be given. The deposit has the
same effect, as filing the undertaking ; and notice that it has
been made, has the same effect, as notice of the filing and ser
vice of a copy of the undertaking. The court, wherein the appeal is pending, may direct the nvyi-r. in.
snail be kept and disposed of. daring tan
the determination of the appeal.
§ 1307. An undertaking. givea aspim-i^ned kttkfg rhiip' ter, must be filed with the cleric with waca tae ja le—i ■ T -w
order appealed from is entered.
§ 1 308. The court, in which the aw»?a^ s pmifig ^xw« 773^ T.«2x;
satisfactory proof, by affidavit, that aiiior *.cie exw.."ttf:c. c-f* aa jji i«. *aL
undertaking, given as prescribed in ths ccafter. ic* cr w.n
of the sureties therein nave become ussorrent : cr *.e»t n» '.r
their circumstances have beeome so precarioa*. the* ti»ere is
reason to apprehend, that the undertaking b nut scSexmt for
the security of the respondent : may mi.«:~ aa croWr. iw,t^ring the appellant to file a new undertair r.z. and to serve a
copy thereof, as required with respect to the original visi-irrtaking. If the appellant fails so to do, within twenty days
after the service of a copy of the order, or such farther time
as the court allows, the appeal must be distai**-i- or the order
or judgment, from which the appeal is takes, must be execu
ted, as if the original undertaking had not t><*a given.
§ 1 309. An action shall not be maintained, uvna an nnder- 101 Jf.T.2».
taking, given upon an appeal, taken as prescribed in title J* CST- Pro.
third, fourth or fifth of this chapter, until tea days have ex- JT'i _^^
pired, since the service, upon the attorney for the appellant, g^L' ^*^
of a written notice of the entry of a judgment or order, affirm- ajAbh. N.
ing the judgment or order appealed from, or dismissing the v. 42g.
appeal. Where an appeal to the court of appeals, from that 17 Civ. Pro.
judgment or order, is perfected, and security is given there- **■
upon, to stay the execution of the judgment or order appeal
ed from, an action shall not be maintained upon the under
taking, giving upon the preceding appeal, until after the final
determination of the appeal to the court of appeals.
§! 1310. Where an appeal has been perfected, as pre- 4"CiT. Pro.
scribed in this chapter, ana the other acts, if any, required to 28t.
be done, to stay the execution of the judgment or order ap <9 Hun, 163.
pealed from, have been done, the appeal stays all proceedings
to enforce the judgment or order appealed from ; except that
the court or judge, from whose determination the appeal is
taken, may proceed in any matter, included in the action or
special proceeding, and not affected by the judgment or order
appealed from, or not embraced within the appeal ; or may
cause perishable property to be sold, pursuant to the judg
ment or order appealed from. The proceeds of such a sale
•
must be paid, to abide the result of the appeal, into the court,
from or in which the appeal is taken ; or, if it was takeu as
prescribed in title fifth of this chapter, into the supreme court.
§ 1311. Where an appeal, taken, from a final judgment, gWeekDie
to the court of appeals, has been perfected, and the security, 403.
required to stay the executionof the judgment, has been given; 13 Abb. N."
or where the security, given upon iin appeal, taken from a c- *81.
final judgment of the supreme court, a superior city court,
a county court, or the marine court of the city of New York,
is equal to that required to perfect an appeal to the court of ap
peals, and to stay the execution of the judgment ; the court,
in which the judgment appealed from was rendered, may, in
its discretion, and upon such terms as justice requires, make an
» So in original order, upon notice to the respondent, nnd the sureties in the
undertaking, discharging a levy upon personal property, made
by virtue of an execution, issued upon the judgment appealed
from. But this section does not authorize the discharge of a
levy, made by virtue of a warrant of attachment.
fi Dem.287.
8 1312. Where an appeal is taken, as prescribed in title
117 N.Y. 115. second or fourth of this chapter, the court, in or from which
the appeal is taken ; or, where an appeal is taken as pre
scribed in title third or fifth of this chapter, the court to
which the appeal is taken ; may, in its discretion, make' an
order, upon notice to the respondent, dispensing with or limit
ing the security, required to stay the execution of the judg
ment or order appealed from, as follows :
1. Where the appellant is an executor, administrator, trus4 Dem. 84.
tee, or other person acting in another's right, the security
may be dispeused with or limited, in the discretion of the
court.
2. The aggregate sum, in which one or more undertakings
are required to be given, may be limited to not less than
fifty thousand dollars, where it would otherwise exceed that
sum.
§ 1313. [Am'd 18S0.] Upon an appeal taken by the peo
104 N.Y. 394.
ple of the State, or by a State officer, or board of State officers,
or a board of supervisors of a county, the service of the no
tice of appeal perfects the appeal, and stays the execution of
the judgment or order appealed from, without an underta
king or other security.
§ 1314. [Am\l 1877.] Upon an appeal, taken by a do
mestic municipal corporation, the service of the notice of ap
peal perfects the appeal, and stays the execution of the judg
ment or order appealed from without an undertaking or
other security ; except that, where an appeal is ta&eu as
prescribed in title second, third or fourth of this chapter the
court, in or from which the appeal is taken, may, in its' dis
cretion, require security to be given. In that case, the form
nature, and extent of the security, not exceeding that which
is required in a like case, from a natural person, and the time
and manner in which it must be given, must be prescribed by
the order of the court; and the mayor, comptroller, or counsel
to the corporation, may, execute, in lichalf of the corporation,
au uudertaking, so required to be given.
§ 1315. [Am'd 18!X).] Where an appeal is taken from a
final judgment as prescribed iu title second or third of this
chapter, the appellant must, within twenty days after it is
perfected, cause a copy of the judgment-roll and of the case
and notice of exceptions, if any, filed alter the entry of judg
ment and a certified copy of the judgmentgiven thereon und of
the notice of appeal to be transmitted to the appellate court
by the clerk upon whom the notice of appeal was served
Where au appeal from an order, or a part of an order is
taken as prescribed in title second, third and fifth of this
chapter, the appellant must, within the same time, cause a
certified copy of the notice of appeal, of the order, and of the
papers upon which the order was founded, to be transmitted
to the appellate court by the same clerk. If the appellant
fails so to do, the respondent may cause those papers to be so
transmitted ; and he is entitled to tax the expense thereof as
a disbursement, where he recovers costs. The clerk of the
appellate court must file the papers so transmitted • and except where it is otherwise specially prescribed by law the ap
peal must be heard upon them.
§ 1316. An appeal, taken from a final judgment, brings T ^ ^
up for review, an interlocutory judgment, or an intermediate 9 ctr-'r—.
order, which is specified in the notice of appeal, and neees- si ; )• U.
sarily affects the final judgment ; and which has &»t already yn.
been reviewed, upon a separate appeal therefr.*n. by tte **^iT-^^
court or the term of the court, to which the appeal f p : a th*: V'Vh
final judgment is taken. The right torevn-wan ii.tprt-- •Jt.-ry g'jys^,,
judgment, or an intermediate order, as prescnbe-i in tm- «-<.— j*^ ijj.
tion, is not affected by the expiration of tbe time, wium lnS-Y. 1S«which a separate appeal therefrom might have been Utkeu.
§ 1317. Upon an appeal from a judgment or an order, mg^m.
the court, or the general term, to which the appeal t» ta>:<rn. , taly. 4*2.
may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or ntay inxLfy. the :: viJSapp.
judgment or order appealed from, and each inter.'x_->..:<.rr 144.
judgment or intermediate order, which it is auth< >nzed t« re- 1st 5-T. IS*.
view, as specified in the notice of appeal, and as to any or all
of the parties ; and it may, if necessary or proper, grant a
new trial or hearing. A judgment, affirming wholly or partly
a judgment, from which an appeal has been taken, shall not,
expressly and in terms, award to the respondent, a sum of
money, or other relief, which was awarded to him by the
judgment so affirmed.
§ 1318. Where a judgment, from which an appeal is
taken, is reversed upon the appeal, and a new trial is granted,
an appeal cannot be taken from the judgment of reversal ;
but upon an appeal from the order granting a new trial, taken,
as prescribed by law, the judgment of reversal must also be
reviewed.
§ 1319. Where a judgment, from which an appeal has
been taken, from one court to another, is wholly or partly
affirmed, or is modified, upon the appeal, it must be enforced,
by the court in which it was rendered, to the extent permit
ted by the determination of the appellate court, as if the ap
peal therefrom had not been taken.
§ 1320. Where a final order, from which an appeal has
been taken, from one court to another, as prescribed in title
fifth of this chapter, is, wholly or partly affirmed, or is modi
fied, upon the appeal, the appellate court may enforce its
order, or may direct the proceedings to be remitted for that
purpose, to the court below, or to the judge who made the
order appealed from.
§ 1321. [Am'dl877.] Where a final judgment for a sum
of money, or directing the payment of a sum of money, has
been reversed, or has been affirmed as to part only of the
sum, upon an appeal, taken as prescribed in title third or
fourth of this chapter ; and an appeal to the court of appeals
is not taken and perfected, and the security required to stay
execution is not given, within ten days after the entry of the
judgment upon the appeal, in the clerk's office where the
judgment appealed from is entered, the clerk must make a
minute of the reversal of the judgment, or of the amount to
which it has been reduced, upon his docket-book, in each
place, where the judgment is docketed. A transcript of the
docket, as thus corrected, must be furnished by him, and may
be filed in any county clerk's office, where the original judg-ment is docketed, as prescribed by law, with respect to the
original docket ; and thereupon the county clerk must correct
his docket accordingly. The lien of a judgment, the docket
of which is not corrected, as prescribed in this section, re
mains unaffected by the reversal or modification thereof,
until the decision of the court of appeals, upon an appeal from
the judgment reversing or modifying the same, or the expira
tion of the time to take such an appeal.
§ 1322. Where a final judgment for a sum of money, or
directing the payment of a sum of money, has been reversed,
or affirmed as to part only of the sum, upon an appeal to the
court of appeals, the docket may be corrected, as prescribed
in the last section, at any time after the remittitur has been
filed in the court below.
§ 1323. [Am'dlSm, 1880.] When a final judgment or
order is reversed or modified, upon appeal, the appellate
court, or the general term of the same court, as the case may
be' may make or compel restitution of property, or of a
right> losfc by means of the erroneous judgment or order ; but
not so as to affect the title of a purchaser in good faith and
for value. When property has Been sold, the court may com
pel the value, or the purchase price, to be restored, or de
posited to abide the event of the action, as justice requires.
When the appeal is from a judgment in favor of the owner of
real estate, in an action to compel the specific performance of
a contract for the sale thereof, such owner shall have the
same right to sell or dispose of the same as though no appeal
had been taken ; unless the appellant shall file with the clerk
of the court a written undertaking, in a sum fixed by the
court, or a judge thereof, upon a notice to the respondent of
at least ten days, and to be approved by such court or judge,
to the effect that the appellant will, in case the judgment ar>
pealed from shall be affirmed, pay to such owner such dam
ages as he may suffer by reason of such appeal, not exceeding
the amount of the penalty in such undertaking. Such un
dertaking may be filed at any time during the appeal, but
any sale of such real estate or contract to sell the same in
good faith and for a valuable consideration, after said judg
ment and before the filing of such undertaking, shall be as
valid as if such undertaking had not been filed. In case such
undertaking shall not be filed, the respondent shall be entitled,
at any time during such appeal, to an order discharging of
record any notice of pendency of action filed in the actton
and also cancelling and discharging of record said contract!
in case the same has been recorded
§ 1324. An appeal mar betaken tc tiar znzr. ~£ t'V
in a case where that court has j
sections one hundred and ninety
one of this act.
§ 1325. [Am'd 1877.] As appeal V. tbe eocr: ;£ iyMA
from a final judgment, must be takes v.Tj^a ro* rear after
final judgment is entered, upa the d«er=^i::> a f the
general term of the court below-, aa-i :u? ~;-i&sa*z.:-r. '. 5>d.
An appeal to the court of appear from ia .. r-irr. cjS be
taken within sixty days after service, \i\tx. \i*r v.\rjctr-.j for
the appellant, of a copy of the order a;/p>^ucd fr<_*i^ »nd a
written notice of the entry thereof.
§ 1326. To render a notice of appeal, to the court of appeals, effectual, for any purpose, except in a case wnere it is
specially prescribed by law, that security is i*x necessary, to
perfect the appeal, the appellant most give a wi-.t'.en under
taking, to the effect, that he will pay a.* o *<s and damages,
which may be awarded against him on the appeal, not ex
ceeding five hundred dollars. The appeal is perfected, when
such an undertaking is given and a copy thereof, with notice
of the filing thereof, is served, as prescribed in this title
§ 1327. If the appeal is taken from a judgment for a
sum of money, or from a judgment or order, directing the
pealed from, or any part thereof, is affirmed, or the appeal
is dismissed, he will pay the sum, recovered or directed to be
paid, by the judgmeut or order, or the part thereof, as to
which it is affirmed. But where the judgment or order di
rects the payment of mouey in fixed installments, the under
taking must be to the effect, that the appellant will pay each
installment, which becomes payable, pending the appeal, or
the part thereof as to which the judgment or order is affirmed,
not exceeding a sum specified in the undertaking, which must
be fixed by a judge of the court below. The court below may,
at any time afterwards, upon satisfactory proof, by affidavit,
that the sum so fixed is insufficient in amount, make an order,
requiring the appellant to give a further undertaking, to the
same effect, in a sum and within a time, specified in the order.
A failure to comply with such an order has the same effect,
as if no undertaking had been given, as prescribed in this sec
tion.
§ 1328. If the appeal is taken from a judgment or order,
directing the assignment or delivery of a document, or of
personal property, it does not stay the execution of the judgment or order, until the thing directed to be assigned or de
livered, is Drought into the court below, or placed in the
custody of an officer or receiver, designated by that court ; or
the appellant gives a written undertaking as prescribed in
the next section.
§ 1329. If the appeal is taken from a judgment for the
recovery of a chattel, it does not stay the execution of the
judgment, until the appellant gives a written undertaking, in
the sum fixed by the court below, or a judge thereof, to the
effect that the appellant will obey the direction of the appel
late court, upon the appeal.
§ 1330. If the appeal is taken from a judgment or order,
directing the execution of a conveyance, or other instrument,
it does not stay the execution of the judgment or order, until
the instrument is executed, and deposited with the clerk,
with whom the judgment or order is entered, to abide the
direction of the appellate court.
§ 1331. [.4m'd 1879.] If the appeal is taken from a judg
ment, which entitles the respondent to the immediate ]
sion of real property, or from a judgment or order, directing
the sale or the delivery of possession of real property, it does
not stay the execution of the judgment or order, until the ap
pellant gives a written undertaking, to the effect, that he will
not, while in possession of the property, commit, or suffer to
be committed, any waste thereon ; and that, if the judgment
or order is affirmed, or the appeal is dismissed, he will pay
the value of the use and occupation of the property, or the
part thereof, as to which the judgment or order is affirmed,
from the time of taking the appeal, until the delivery of the
possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment or order, not ex
ceeding a specified sum, fixed by a judge of the court below.
But if the judgment directs a foreclosure and sale of real
property mortgaged, an undertaking is sufficient to stay the
execution of the judgment, which is to the effect that if the
J'udgmeut is affirmed, or the appeal is dismissed, the appel
ant will pay any deficiency which may occur upon the sale,
in discharging the sum to pay which the sale is directed with
interest and the costs, and all expenses chargeable against the
proceeds of the sale, not exceeding a specified sum, fixed'Tby a
judge of the court below.
§ 1 332. Where the judgement or order, from which an
appeal is taken to the court of appeals, affirms a judgment or
order, to the effect specified in either of the last five sections,
the undertaking must be the same, as if the judgment or
order, from which the appeal is so taken, was to the same
effect, as the judgment or order so affirmed.
§ 1333. The last six sections do not extend to a case,
where it is specially prescribed by law, that an appeal may
be taken, or the execution of a judgment or order appealed
from may be stayed, without security, or where the security
to be given, for either purpose, is specially regulated by law.
§ 1334. [im'ii 1879.] "When two or more undertakings
are required to be given, as prescribed in this title, they may
be contained in the same instrument, or in different instru
ments, at the option of the appellant. Each undertaking,
given as prescribed in this title, must be executed by at least
two sureties, and must specify the residence of each surety
therein. A copy thereof, with a notice showing where it is
filed, must be served on the attorney for the adverse party
with the notice of appeal, or before the expiration of the time
of appeal.

90N.Y. 476.
§1335. [Am'd 1883, 1891.] It is not necessary that the
5 Civ. Pro.' undertaking should be approved; but attorney for the respondent
may, within ten days after the service of a copy of the undertaking
T. Y. 458. with notice of the filing thereof, serve upon the attorney tor file ap
pellant, a written notice that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sure-ties. Within ten days thereafter, the sureties, or other sureties in a
new undertaking to the same effect, must justify before the court be
low, or a judge thereof, or a referee appointed hy the same, or a coun
ty judge. At least five days notice oi I tie justification must be given.
A referee may be appointed upon the motion ot either party, or upon
the court's own motion to take the justification of such sureties and
to report the evidence upon the same to the court or jihIrs with Mb
opinion. Tbe court may further direct that either party shall pay the
expenses of such reference, if the court or judge finds the sureties
sufficient he must endorse his allowance of them upon the underta
king, or a copy thereof, and ft notice of the allowance must be served
upon the attorney for the exceptant. The effect of a failure so to jus
tify and procure an allowance, is the same as if the undertaking had
not been given. The court shall also have power, in case it shall be
made to appear to its satisfaction, upon motion, that the exception
was taken unnecessarily or for purposes of vexation or delay, to aet
the same aside and approve the undertaking.
§ 1336. Where final judgment is rendered in the court
below, after the affirmance, upon an appeal to the general
term of that court, of an interlocutory judgment ; or after
the refusal, by the general term, of a new trial, either trpon
an application, made, in the first instance, at tbe general
term, or upon an appeal from an order of the special term, or
of the judge before whom the issues, or questions of fact, were
tried by a jury; the party aggrieved may appeal directly fr'/m
the final judgment to the court of appeals, notwithstanding
that it was rendered at a special term, or at a trial term, or
pursuant to the directions, contained in a referee"* repfyrt.
But such an appeal brings up, for review, only tbe d«t*rw.. ra
tion of the general term, affirming tbe inleritjcziU/ty ;>Aiment, or refusing the new trial.
§ 1337. An appeal to the court of appeals tmm a £*».;
judgment, or from an order, granting or reftMutg a t^nv \r.-k,
in an action, or from a final order aff*cuajf a «-i*>«it*jKi*.
right, made, either in a special proce«»imr. tir upm a «».»-mary application after judgment in an wA*m. ijrzw* w, Is.review, in that court, every question, affectatgr a w/tfUAr.js .
right, and not resting in discrete*, "vrhwa w*» *««no'KB( vr
the general term of tbe court befcnr. m j»«*»*y.-iof M» yS-%
inent or niaking the order, froiBwiij'-i *.tieafv>a. r'ajm ♦-/ccpt that a question of fact, urumtz vt/4> auufirfAindr *•> if**n*<»
cannot be determined upr»u eu*sb t-t. *.p>*^%-. uu.*sw vi«*-.«*
special provision for tbe d*t/enirjjii",i-* 'uuavS, j* Mu.u> v,law.
§ 1338. Upon an appeal to tibe <e«*v-t <^ -ayv^aa <t<m -,
judgment, reversing a ^udguttnrt earlier**] uja« '*• • *?■*-"*' r **.
port, or a decision W tiie wiurt. uvm. t. '.■•a. r r.-tsja i ju<«
or from an order grsurtuj? fc x*w v-itn. uyvi. itu*M *- **-> *-* .-*.
it must be presumed, ttei* "..be juiigiueul is at vr* • »-■ >,< ^a. <*
the new trial grant-^d- upyo b qu»^it,<*ji «** i«*r ui.,^> .l.i v*
trary clearly appear*. Mi tnt xmvy v' "is ji#ii/-iw:.i <» vo./
appealed from. In "uhat <eat*:. 14** *a/u**. k/"^ ayy '»*- i*i-"» **.view the detenruaatkio «ftt«r ?&uw '•""'• '' •*« *,,.s .a
low, upon the (fme*li'jw> \f. tin;;, a. r-.-l a. '-•<■ .,«■ >.,,.- /
law.
§ 1339. ATbere ao apjA^a' vt- tt<< ««i' -/ -;>;/< .i. 1 .... .
judgment, rendered at a yoowtt, >t<m </ uw -v- • ,-.,.
upon a verdict, suiijet* *t< ttit t^/mi'* i/- iw ^/ui „ «. ,.. „
perfected, a cant, ■xmlitnimr i. twa» »^>.w>^»i / t,-. :...;
of the questkmfc of Jaw. 4*ru»ii(£ U*x^»yi **u* >' t.;-. <-.--<.....
nation of three oueKUotjh m j^*^t*;u*«.i .. .,. ^j* .• ~j
pared and setaitea, by or uuutpt 
low, and annexed to the judgment-roll. An exception is not
necessary, to enable the court of appeals to review the de
termination of a question of law, arising upon the verdict. A
certified copy of the case must be transmitted to the court of
appeals, instead of the case, upon which the judgment of the
court below was rendered. The court below, or a judge there
of, may extend the time, limited by law, within which the
papers must be transmitted to the court of appeals, for the
purpose of enabling the appellant to procure the case to be
prepared or settled.
§ 1340. [Amtd 1888.] An appeal may be taken to the
it Week.
supreme court, from a final judgment, rendered by a county
Dig. 143.'
court, or by any other court of record possessing original jur
isdiction, where an appeal therefrom to a court other than
the supreme court is not expressly given by statute, and upon
such appeal, an order granting or refusing a new trial for any
of the causes mentioned in section nine hundred and ninetynine of this act, made by any of said courts, and questions of
fact may be reviewed in the same manner, and to the same
extent as questions of fact may now be reviewed, upon appeal
to the general term of the supreme court from a final judg
ment and order, granting or refusing a new trial, rendered by
the same court.
§ 1341. [Am'eU877, 1890.] An appeal authorized by the
last section must be taken within thirty days after service upon
the attorney for the appellant, of the copy of the judgment,
and written notice of the entry thereof ; security is not re
quired to perfect the appeal, but to stay the execution of the
judgment security must be given, and the sureties may be ex
cepted to, and must justify, as upon an appeal to the court of
appeals, from a judgment of the same amount, or to the same
effect.
19 Hun, 74;
§ 1342. [Am?d 1881.] An appeal may also be taken to
25 Id. 237 ; the supreme court, from an order affecting a substantial right,
I A .|*0Smade by the court or a judge, in an action brought in, or
hi mo
taken by appeal to, a court specified in the last section but
102N.Y.383. one.
§ 1343. [Am'd 1877.] An appeal, authorized by the last
section, must be taken, within sixty days after service upon
the attorney for the appellant, of a copy of the order, and
written notice of the entry thereof. Security is not required
to perfect it : but it does not stay the execution of the order
from which it is taken. The appellate court, or a judge there
of, may direct such a stay, upon such terms, as to security or
otherwise, as justice requires.
§ 1344. An appeal, taken as prescribed in this title, must
be heard at the general term. The provisions of title fourth
of this chapter, relating to the hearing of appeals, taken in
the supreme court, and to the subsequent proceedings there
upon, apply to an appeal, taken as prescribed in this title, ex
cept as specified in the next section.
8 1345. A judgment of the supreme court, rendered up
on an appeal authorized by this title, must be entered in the
iudTnent-book, kept in the office of the clerk of the county,
wherein the court below is located. The judgment-roll must
be filed in the same office ; and must consist of a certified copy
of the judgment, annexed to the papers transmitted from the
court below. An order of the supreme court, made upon such
an appeal, must be entered, and the papers, upon which the
appeal was heard, must be filed, in the office of the same
clerk. The filing of the judgment-roll, or the entry of the
order as prescribed in this section, is a sufficient authority
for any proceeding in the court below, or before the judge,
who made the order appealed from which the judgment or
order of the appellate court directs or permits. But where
the execution of the judgment or order of the uppellate court
is staved, by an appeal to the court of appeals, the proceed
ings in the court below, or before the judge who made the
order, are stayed in like manner.
8 1346. An appeal may be taken, to the general term of
the supreme court, or of a superior city court, from a final
judgment rendered in the same court, as follows :
1. Where the judgment was rendered upon a trial by a referee, or by the court without a jury, the appeal may be taken
upon questions of law, or uyon the facts, or upon both.
2. Where the judgment was rendered upon the verdict of a
jury, the appeal may be taken upon questions of law.
§ 1347. An appeal may be taken, to the general term of
the supreme court, or of a superior city court, from an order,
made in an action, upon notice, at a special term or a trial
term of the same court, or, in the supreme court, at a term of
the circuit court, in either of the following cases :
1. Where the order grants, refuses, continues, or modifies a
provisional remedy.
2. Where it grants, or refuses a new trial ; except that
where specific questions of fact, arising upon the issues, in an
action triable by the court, have been tried by a jury, pur
suant to an order for that purpose, as prescribed in section
nine hundred and seventy-one of this act, an appeal cannot be
taken from an order, granting or refusing a new trial, upon
the merits.
3. Where it involves some part of the merits.
4. Where it affects a substantial right.
5. Where, in effect, it determines the action, and prevents
a judgment, from which an appeal might be taken.
6. Where it determines a statutory provision of the State to he unconstitutional ; and the determination appears from the
reasons given for the decision thereupon, or is necessarily
implied in the decision.
An order, made upon a summary application, after judg
ment, is deemed to have been made, in the action, within the
meaning of this section.
87 N. Y. 409.
§ 1348. An appeal may also be taken, to the general term
of either of those courts, from an order, made in an action,
upon notice, by a judge, out of court, iu a case where an ap
peal might have been taken, as prescribed in the last section,
if the order had been made by the court.
1 Month. L.
§ 1349. An appeal may also be taken, to the general
Bui. 29.
term of either of those courts, from an interlocutory judg
42 Hun, 320. ment rendered at a special term or trial term of the same
93 N. Y. 660; court, or, in the supreme court, at a term of the circuit court.
121 Id. 166.
§ 1 350. Where final judgment is taken, at a special term
1 Month. L.
or trial term, or pursuant to the directions of a referee, after
Bui. 29.
121N.Y.57. the affirmance, upon an appeal to the general term, of an
interlocutory judgment ; or after the refusal, by the general
term, of a new trial, either upon an application, made, in the
first instance, at the general term, or upon an appeal from an
order of the special term, or of the judge, before whom the
issues, or questions of fact, were tried by a jury ; an appeal
to the general term from the flnal judgment brings up, for re
view, only the proceedings to take the flnal judgment, or up
on which the final judgment was taken, includingthe hearing
or trial of the other issues in the action, if any. If an appeal
is taken, to the court of appeals, from the determination of
the general term, upon the appeal from the final judgment,
the determination of the general term, affirming the interlo
cutory judgment or refusing the new trial, may, at the elec
tion of either party, be reviewed thereupon. If the respond
ent elects to bring it up for review, he may take a cross-ap
peal .therefrom, notwithstanding the expiration of the time to
take an original appeal therefrom.
§ 1351. An appeal, authorized by this title, must be taken,
l Month. L.
within thirty days after service, upon the attorney for the
Bui. 29.
78 N. Y. 228. appellant, of a copy of the judgment or order appealed from,
20 Hun, 676; and a written notice of the entry thereof. Security is not re
25 Id. 316 ; quired to perfect the appeal ; but, except where it is other
42 Id. 320.
13 Civ. Pro. wise specially prescribed by law, the appeal does not stay the
execution of the judgment or order appealed from ; unless
220.
6 Dem. 287. the court, in or from which the appeal is taken, or a judge
8 N.Y. State thereof, makes an order, directing such a stay. Such an
Ry'v8^'
order may be made, and may, from time to time, be modi3N.Y.Supp. fled, upon such terms as to security or otherwise, as justice
'"
requires. If security is given, either as a condition of grant
ing the order, or as prescribed in the next section, the provi
sions of title second of this chapter apply thereto, as if the
general term was specified in those provisions, in place of the
appellate court, ana a judge of the same court, in place of a
judge of the court below.
25 Hun, 316.
6 Civ. Pro,
259.
in if
617
is Cirn'Pro!
"
15'' Ci< ■

§ 1352. TJpon an appeal from a final judgment, taken as
prescribed in this title, the appellant may give the security,
required t° Perfect an appeal to the court of appeals, from a
judgment of the same amount, or to the same effect ; and to
stay the execution thereof. In that case, the execution of the
judgment appealed from is stayed, as upon an appeal to the
court of appeals, and subject to the same conditions.
§ 1353. An appeal from a final judgment, taken as prescribed in this title, must be heard upon a certified copy of
the notice of appeal, of the judgment-roll, and of the case or
notice of exceptions, if any, filed, as prescribed by law or the
general rules of practice, after the entry of the judgment,
and either before or after the appeal is taken. An appeal
from an interlocutory judgment, or from an order, taken as
prescribed in this title, must be heard upon a certified copy of
the notice of appeal, aj*d of the papers used before the court,
or the judge, upon the hearing of the demurrer, application
for judgment, or motion, as the case requires.
§ 1354. {Am'd 1870.] When judgment of affirmance is
rendered upon the appeal, the judgment-roll consists of a
copy of the judgment annexed to the papers, upon which the
appeal was heard. Where subsequent proceedings are taken,
at the special term or trial term, before the entry of final
judgment, the judgment-roll must also contain the proper
papers relating thereto.
§ 1 355. An appeal taken to the general term of the su
preme court, as prescribed in this title, must be heard in the
department, embracing the county, in which the judgment or
order appealed from is entered ; unless an order is made, as
prescribed in section two hundred and thirty-one of this act,
directing that it be heard in another department. The judg
ment rendered, or the order made, upon the appeal, must be
entered, and the judgment-roll, or the papers upon which the
appeal was determined, as the case requires, must be filed, in
the office of the clerk of the county, where the judgment or
order appealed from is entered. If the appeal is determined
at a general term, held in another county, the clerk of that
county must, at the expense of the successful party, transmit
a certified copy of the determination, and the other papers, if
any, required: to be filed, to the clerk of the county where the
judgment or order is to be entered.

4nHiin, 5W.
25N.Y.SUte
Rep. 326.
M "• ^- 353g2 w y 366.
§ 1356. [Am'd 1877.] An appeal may be taken, to the general term of the supreme court, or of a superior city court,
from an order, affecting a substantial right, made in a special
proceeding, at a special term or a trial term of the same
court, or, in the supreme court, at a term of a circuit court ;
or made by a judge of the same court, in a special proceeding
instituted before him, pursuant to a special statutory pro
vision ; or instituted before another judge, and transferred
to, or continued before him.
§ 1357. [4m'dl877.] An appeal may also be taken to
the supreme court, from an order, affecting a substantial
right, made by a court of record, possessing original jurisdiction, or a judge thereof, in a special proceeding instituted in
that court, or before a judge thereof, pursuant to a special
statutory provision ; or instituted before another judge, and
transferred to, or continued before, the judge who made the
final order. But this section does not apply to a case, where
an appeal from the order, to a court, other than the supreme
court, is expressly given by statute.
§ 1358. [>lm'<nS77.] An appeal, authorized by this title,
brings up for review, any preceding order, made in the course
of the special proceeding, involving the merits, and neces
sarily affecting the final order appealed from, which is speci
fied in the notice of appeal.
§ 1359. An appeal, authorized by this title, must be
taken within thirty days after service of a copy of the final
order, from which it is taken, with a written notice of the
entry thereof, upon the appellant ; or, if he appeared, upon
the hearing, by an attorney at law or an attorney in fact,
upon the person who so appeared for him.
§ 1360. The provisions of title fourth of this chapter, re
lating to perfecting an appeal from an order, taken as there
in prescribed ; to staying the execution of the order appealed
from ; to hearing the appeal ; and to the entry and enforce
ment of the order made upon the appeal apply, where an ap
peal is taken, as prescribed in this title, except as otherwise
specially prescribed by law.
§ 1301. This title does not confer the right to appeal
from an order, in a case, where it is specially prescribed by
law, that the order cannot be reviewed. The proceedings
upon an appeal, taken as prescribed in this title, are governed
by the provisions of this act, and of the general rules of prac
tice, relating to an appeal in an action, except as otherwise
specially prescribed by law.
§ 1362. An execution must be directed to the sheriff, un
less he is a party or interested ; in which ease it must be
directed as prescribed in section one hundred and seventythree of this act. But the court may, in its discretion, order
an execution, issued upon a judgment rendered against a
sheriff, either alone or with another, to be directed to a per
son, designated in the order, instead of to the coroners, or a
particular coroner ; in which case it must be so directed.
The person so designated must be of full age, a resident of
the State, and not a party to the action, or interested therein.
Where the execution is issued upon a judgment for a sum of
money, or directing the payment of a sum of money, the order
does not take effect, until the person so designated executes,
and files in the clerk's office, a bond to the people, with at
least two sureties, approved by a judge of the court, or a
county judge, in a penal sum, fixed by the order, not less than
twice the sum to be collected by virtue of the execution ; con
ditioned for the faithful performance of his duties under the
execution. A certified copy of the order, and, where it re
quires a bond to be given, the clerk's certifionte that a bond
has been filed, as required by the order, must bo attached to
the execution. The person so designated is deemed an officer ;
and, with respect to that execution, he is subject to the obli
gations and liabilities, and has the power and authority of a
coroner, and is entitled to fees accordingly.
§ 1363. The sheriff, to whom an execution is directed
and delivered, must, upon the receipt thereof, indorse there
upon a memorandum of the day, hour and minute, when he
received it.
§ 1 364. There are four kinds of execution, as follows :
1. Against property.
3. Against the person.
3. For the delivery of the possession of real property, with
or without damages for withholding the same,
4. For the delivery of the possession of a chattel, with or
without damages for the taking or detention thereof.
An execution- is the process of the court, from which it is
issued.
§ 1365. An exeution against property can be issued only
to a county, in the clerk's office of which the judgment is 29 Hun, 611.
docketed. An execution against the person may oe issued to l!0N.Y.3i.(i.
any county. An execution for the delivery of the possession
of real property, must be issued to the count y^-herc the
property, or a part thereof, is situated. An execution for the
delivery of the possession of a chattel, may be issued to any
county, where the chattel is found ; or to the sheriff of the
county where the judgment-roll is filed. Executions, upon
the same judgment, may be issued at the same time, to two
or more different counties.
? 1106, Con§ 1366. An execution must intelligibly describe the jud<-EmoAv*mi ment' statin? tne names of the parties in whose favor, and
WK.i.sii. against whom, the time when, and the court in which, the
judgment was rendered ; and, if it was rendered in the su
preme court, the county in which the judgment-roll is filed.
It must require the sheriff to return it to the proper clerk,
within sixty days after the receipt thereof. Except as other
wise prescribed in the next section, it must be made return
able to the clerk, with whom the judgment-roll is filed.
§ 1367. Where an execution is issued out of a court, other
than that in which the judgment was rendered, upon filin<* a
transcript of the judgment rendered in the latter court^ it
•must also specify the clerk, with whom the transcript is filed
and the time of filing ; and it must be made returnable to that
clerk. If the judgment was rendered in a justice's court, it
must specify the justice's name ; and it must omit the specifi
cation, respecting the filing of the judgment-roll.
lCityCt.383.
§ 1368. An execution, issued upon a judgment for a sum
of money, or directing the payment of a sum of money, must
specify, in the body thereof, the sum recovered, or directed
to be paid, and the sum actually due when it is issued. It
may specify a day, from which interest upon the sum due is to
be computed ; in which case, the sheriff must collect interest
accordingly, until the sum is paid. If all the parties, against
whom the judgment is rendered, are not judgment debtors,
the execution must show who is the judgment debtor.
110 N.Y. 300.

98 N. Y. 1.

29 Hun, 14

§ 1369. An execution against property must, if the judg
ment-roll is not filed in the clerk's office of the county to which
it is issued, specify the time when the judgment was docketed
in that county. It must, except in a case where special pro
vision is otherwise made by law, substantially require the
sheriff to satisfy the judgment, out of the personal property
of the judgment debtor ; and, if sufficient persoual property
cannot be found, out of the real property, belonging to him,
at the time when the judgment was docketed in the clerk's
office of the county, or at any time thereafter.
§ 1370. "Where a warrant of attachment, issued in the
action, has been levied, by the sheriff, the execution must
substantially require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment as
follows :
1. Where the judgment debtor is a non-resident, or a for
eign corporation, and the summons was served upon him or
it, without the State, or otherwise than personally, pursuant
to an order obtained for that purpose, as prescribed in chap
ter fifth of this act, and the judgment debtor has not appear
ed in the action ; out of the personal property attachecf, and,
if that is insufficient, out of the real property attached.
2. In any other case, out of the personal property attached;
and, if that is insufficient, out of the other personal property
of the judgment debtor; if both are insufficient, out of the
real property attached ; and, if that is insufficient, out of the
real property, belonging to him, at the time when the judg
ment was docketed in the clerk's office of the county or at
any time thereafter.
§ 1371. An execution against real or personal property,
in the hands of an executor, administrator, heir, devisee'
legatee, tenant of real property, or trustee, must substantially require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, out of that
property.
§ 1372. An execution against the person must substan
tially require the sheriff to arrest the judgment debtor,
and commit him to the jail of the county, until he pays the
judgment, or is discharged according to law. Except where
it may be issued, without the previous issuing and return of
an execution against property, it must recite the issuing and
return of such an execution, specifying the county to which it
was issued.
§ 1373. An execution for the delivery of the possession of
real property, or a chattel, must particularly describe the prop
erty, and designate the party to whom the judgment awards
the possession thereof ; and it must substantially require the
sheriff, to deliver the possession of the property, within his
county, to the party entitled thereto. If a sum of money is
awarded by the same judgment, it may be collected, by virtue
of the same execution ; or a separate execution may be issued
for the collection thereof, omitting the direction to deliver
possession of the property. If one execution is issued for both
purposes, it must contain, with respect to the money to be
collected, the same directions as an execution against prop
erty, or against the person, as the case requires.
§ 1374. Where a judgment awards different sums of
money, to or against different parties, a separate execution
may be issued, to collect each sum so awarded ; subject to the
power of the court, to control the enforcement of the execu
tions, upon motion, where the collection of one execution will,
wholly or partly, satisfy another.
§ 1375. Except as otherwise specially prescribed by 'aw,
the party recovering a final judgment, or his assignee, may
have execution thereupon, of course, at any time within five
years after the entry of the judgment.
§ 1376. [Am'd 1877, 1885, 1887.] Where the party recov
ering a final judgment has died, execution may be issued at
any time within five years alter the entry of the judgment,
by his personal representatives, or by the assignee of the
judgment, if it has been assigned, and the execution must be
indorsed with the name and residence of the person issuing
the same. And where a party or one or more of several par
ties against whom a judgment for the recovery of possession
of real property has Deen obtained, has died, an orcfer grant
ing leave to issue and execute such execution or writ of pos
session may be granted upon giving twenty days' notice to
the occupants of the lands so recovered, and to the grantees
or devisees of said deceased, or, if he died intestate, to the
heirs-at-law of said deceased ; said notices to be served in the
same manner as a summons is directed to be served in an
action in the supreme court.
§ 1377. [Am\l 187fl.] After tlic lapse of live years from
the entry of a final judgment, execution can be issued thereupon, in one of the following cases only :
1. Where an execution was issued thereupon, within five
yours after the entry of the judgment, and has been returned
wholly or partly unsatistied or unexecuted.
2. Where an order is made by the court, granting leave to
issue the execution.
§ 1378. Notice of an application for an oraer, granting leave to issue an execution, as prescribed in the last section,
must be served personally upon the adverse party, if he is a
resident of the State, and personal service can, with reason
able diligence, be made upon him therein ; otherwise, notice
must be given in such manner as the court directs. Where
the judgment is for a sum of money, or directs the payment
of a sum of money, leave shall not be granted, except on
proof, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the court, that the
judgment remains wholly or partly unsatisfied.
§ 1370. An execution to collect a sum of money cannot
be issued, against the property of a judgment debtor, who has
died since the entry of the judgment, except as prescribed in
the next two sections.
28 Hun, 46!!;
§ 1380. [Arri'd 1879, 1885, 1890.] After the expiration of
29 Id. 12j 41 one year from the death of a party, against whom a final
Id. 196.
judgment for a sum of money, or directing the payment of a
is N.Y.State sum 0f money, is rendered, the judgment may be enforced bv
H luJ1
execution against any property upon which it is a lien, with
like effect as if the judgment-debtor was still living. But such
an execution shall not be issued, unless an order granting
leave to issue it is procured from the court from which the
execution is to be issued, and a decree to the same effect is
Srocured from a surrogate's court of this State, which has
uly granted letters testamentary or letters of administra
tion upon the estate of the deceased judgmeut-debtor. Where
the lien of the judgment was created as prescribed in sec
tion twelve hundred and fifty-one of this act, neither the
order nor the decree cau be made until the expiratiou of three
years after letters testamentary or letters ot administration
have been duly granted upon the estate of the decedent, ami
for that purpose such a lien existing at the decedent's dentil,
continues for three years and six months thereafter, notwith
standing the previous expiration of ten years from the Blin;.'
of the judgment-roll. But where the decedent died intestate
and letters of administration upon his estate have not been
granted within three years after his death by the surrogate
court of the county in which the decedent resided at the time
of his death, or if the decedent resided out of the State at the
time of his death, and letters testamentary or letters of ad
ministration have not been grauted within the same time by
the surrogate's court of the county in which the property on
which the judgment is a lien is situated, such court may grant
the decree where it appears that the decedent did not Veuve
any personal property within the State upon which to ad
minister. In such case the lien of the judgment existing at
the decedent's death continues for three years and six months
as aforesaid. But this section shall not apply to real estate
which shall have been conveyed, or hereafter may be con
veyed by the deceased judgment-debtor during his lifetime,
if such conveyance was made in fraud of his creditors, or any
of thenij and any judgment creditor of said deceased, against
whose judgment said conveyance shall have been, or may
hereafter be, declared fraudulent by the judgment and de
cree of any court of competent jurisdiction, may enforce his
said judgment against such real property, with like effect as
if the judgment-debtor was living, anil it shall not be neces
sary to obtain the leave of any court or officer to issue such
execution, and the same may be issued at any time t<> the
sheriff of the county where such property isormay be situated.
The person issuing such execution, however, shall annex thereto a description of the real estate against which the same is
sought to be enforced, as aforesaid, and shall indorse on said
execution the words "issued under section thirteen hundred
and eighty of the Code of Civil Procedure," whereupon said
sheriff shall enforce said execution as therein directed, against
the property so described, and not against any other prop
erty, either real or personal, and all provisions of law relating
to the sale and conveyance of real estate on execution and
the redemption thereof shall apply thereto.
§ 1381. [. Im'd 1889.] Leave to issue an execution as pre„
,„
scribed in the last section, must be procured as follows :
i Rfidf '374
1. Notice of the application to the court from which the exe- go Hun, 670
cution is to be issued, for an order granting leave to issue the
execution, must be given to the person or persons whose inter
est in the property will be affected by a sale by virtue of the
execution, and also to the executor or administrator of the
judgment debtor. The general rules of practice may pre
scribe the manner in which the notice must be given ; until
provision is so made therein, it must be served either person
ally or in such manner as the court prescribes in an order to
show cause. Leave shall not be granted, except upon proof
by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the court, that the .judg
ment remains wholly or partly unsatisfied.
2. For the purpose of procuring a decree from the surro
gate's court granting leave to issue the execution, the judg-. 1 Dem.349.
ment creditor must present to that court a written petition,
duly verified, setting forth the facts, and praying for such a de
cree ; and that the persons specified in the first subdivision of
this section, may be cited to show cause why it should not be
granted. Upon the presentation of such a petition the surro
gate must issue a citation accordingly, which said citation
may be served in the same manner as is provided in the first
subdivision of this section for the service or giving of a notice
to the parties or persons therein mentioned, and, if the gener
al rules of practice of the supreme court do not provide for a
mode of giving such notice, such citation must be served in
such manner as the surrogate by order may prescribe, or as
is otherwise provided by law ; and, upon the return thereof,
he must make such a decree in the premises as justice re
quires.
§ 1382. The time during which the person, entitled to en
force a judgment, is stayed from enforcing it, by the pro
vision of a statute, or by an injunction or other order, or in
consequence of an appeal, is not a part of the time, limited,
by this title, for issuing an execution thereupon, or for making
an application for leave to issue such an execution.
fl383. The last six sections do not affect the right of a
gment creditor to enforce a judgment, against the prop
erty of one or more surviving judgment debtors, as if all the
judgment debtors were living. In that case, an execution
must be issued in the usual form ; but the attorney for the
judgment creditor must indorse thereupon, a notice to the
sheriff, reciting the death of the deceased judgment debtor,
and requiring the sheriff not to collect the execution, out of
any property which belonged to him.
8 1 384. A sale of real or personal property, by virtue of
an execution, or pursuant to the directions contained in a
judgment or order, must be made at public auction, between
the nour of nine o'clock in the morning and sunset.
§ 1385. A person who, before the time fixed for the sale,
In a notice of the sale of property, to be made by virtue of an
execution, willfully takes down or defaces such a notice put
up by the sheriff, or by his authority, forfeits fifty dollars to
the judgment creditor, and the same sum to the judgment
debtor ; unless the notice was defaced or taken down, with
the consent of the person seeking to enforce the forfeiture, or
the execution was previously satisfied.
§ 1383. An omission by the sheriff to give notice, as re
quired by law, or the taking down or defacing of a notice,
when put up, does not effect* the validity of a sale, made by
virtue of an execution, to a purchaser in good faith, without
notice of the omission or offense.
§ 1387. The sheriff, to whom an execution is directed, or
the under-sheriff or deputy-sheriff, holding an execution, and
conducting a sale of property by virtue thereof, shall not, di
rectly or indirectly, purchase any of the property at the sale.
A purchase made by him, or to his use, is void.
§ 1 388. Where the sheriff, to whom an execution is de
livered, dies, is removed from office, or becomes otherwise
disqualified to act, before the execution is returned, his undersheriff must proceed upon the execution, as the sheriff might
have done. If there is no under-sheriff, the court, from which
the execution issued, may designate a person to proceed
thereupon ; who may complete the same, as an under-sheriff
might have done. The person so designated must give such
security as the court directs. He is deemed an officer ; and
is subject to the same obligations and liabilities, and has the
same power and authority, in relation to the object of his ap
pointment, as a sheriff, and is entitled to fees accordingly.
But this section does not apply, in a case where special pro
vision is otherwise made by law, for the enforcement of an
execution, after the death, removal from office, or other dis
qualification, of the sheriff, or under-sheriff.
§ 1388. The enumeration, in this article, of the property
which is exempt from levy and sale by virtue of an execution,
does not repeal any special provision of law, relating to such
an exemption, which, by its terms, is applicable only to a par
ticular class of persons, or corporations, or to a particular
locality, or otherwise to a special case.
§ 1390. [Am'd 1891, amendment to take effect from 1 s« Hun, 12.
September 1891.] The following personal property, when own
ed by a householder, is exempt from levy and sale by virtue
of an execution, and each movable article thereof continues
to be so exempt, while the family or any of them, are remov
ing from one residence to another:

1. All spinning wheels, weaving looms, and stoves, put up
or kept for use in a dwelling house ; and one sewing machine
with its appurtenances.
2. The family Bible, family pictures and school books, used
by or in the family ; and other books, not exceeding in value
fifty dollars, kept and used as part of the family library.
3. A seat or pew, occupied by the judgment debtor or the
family, in a place of public worship.
4. Ten sheep, with their fleeces, and the yarn or cloth manu
factured therefrom ; one cow ; two swine ; the necessary
food for those animals ; all necessary meat, fish, flour, grocer
ies, and vegetables, actually provided for family use, and
necessary fuel, oil and candles, for the use of the family for
sixty days.
5. All wearing apparel, beds, bedsteads and bedding, neces
sary for the judgment debtor and the family ; all necessary
cooking utensils ; one table ; six chairs ; six knives ; six forks ;
six spoons ; six plates ; six tea cups ; six saucers ; one sugar
dish; one milk pot ; one tea pot; one crane and its appendages;
one pair of ar.dirons ; one coal scuttle ; one shovel ; one pair
of tongs ; one lamp and one candlestick.
6. The tools and implements of a mechanic, necessary to
the carrying on of his trade, not exceeding in value twentyfive dollars.
§ 1391. [AnVd 1879.] In addition to the exemptions, allowed by the last section, necessary household furniture,
working tools and team, professional instruments, furniture
and library, not exceeding in value two hundred and fifty
dollars, together with the necessary food for the team, for
ninety days, are exempt from levy and sale by virtue of an
execution, when owned by a person, being a householder, or
havin<» a family for which he provides, except where the executiorTis issued upon a judgment, recovered wholly upon one
or more demands, either for work performed in the family as
a domestic, or for the purchase-money of one or more articles,
except as prescribed in this or the last section.

i.§ 1302. [Am'd 1877.] Where the judgment debtor is a
woman, she is entitled to the same exemptions, from levy and
sale by virtue of an execution, subject to the same exceptions
as prescribed in the last two sections, in the case of a house
holder.
3511011,647.
§ 1393. The pay and bounty of a non-commissioned offi5 l)em. 138. cer, musician, or private, in the military or naval service of
1 Conn. 181. the United States ; a land warrant, pension, or other reward,
119N.Y.660. heretofore or hereafter granted by the United States, or by a
State, for military or naval services ; a sword, horse, medal,
emblem, or device of any kind, presented, as a testimonial,
for services rendered in the military or naval service of the
United States; and the uniform, arms, and equipments, which
were used by a person in that service, are also exempt from
levy and sale, by virtue of an execution, and from seizure for
non-payment of taxes, or in any other legal proceeding.
36 Hun, 583.
§ 1394. A right of action to recover damages, or dam
ages awarded by a judgment, for taking or injuring personal
property, exempt by law from levy and sale, by virtue of an
execution, are exempt, for one year after the collection there
of, from levy and sale, by virtue of an execution, and from
seizure in any other legal proceeding.
§ 1395. Land set apart as a family or private burying
ground, and heretofore designated, as prescribed by law, in
order to exempt the same, or hereafter designated for that
purpose, as prescribed in the next section, is exempt from
sale, by virtue of an execution, upon the following conditions
only :
1. A portion of it must have been actually used for that
purpose.
8. It must not exceed in extent, one-fourth of an acre.
3. It must not contain, at the time of its designation, or at
any time afterwards, any building or structure, except one or
more vaults, or other places of deposit for the dead, or mor
tuary monuments.
§ 1396. In order to designate land, to be exempted as
prescribed in the last section, a notice, containing a full de
scription of the land to be exempted, and stating that it has
been set apart for a family or private burying ground, must
be subscribed by the owner : acknowledged or proved, and
certified, in like manner, as a deed to be recorded in the
county where the land is situated ; and recorded in the office
of the clerk or register of that county, in the proper book for
recording deeds, at least three days before the sale of the
land, by virtue of the execution.
2sN:Y.8tate
§ 1397. [Am'd 1883.] A lot of land, with one or more
Bep. 518.
buildings thereon, not exceeding in value one thousand clollars, owned and occupied as a residence by a householder,
having a family, and heretofore designated as an exempt
homestead, as prescribed by law, or hereafter designated for
that purpose, as prescribed in the next section, is exempt
from sale by virtue of an execution, issued uixm a judgment
recovered for a debt contracted after the thirtieth day of
April, eighteen hundred and fifty ; unless the judgment was
recovered wholly for a debt or debts contracted before the
designation of the property, or for the purchase money there
of. But no property heretofore or hereafter designated as an
exempt homestead, as prescribed by law, or by the next see tion, shall be exempt from taxation, or from sale for non-pay
ment of taxes or assessments.
§ 1398. lAm'd 1877.] In order to designate property, to
be exempted as prescribed in the last section, a conveyance
thereof, st- tins', in substance, that it is designed to be held
as a homestead, exempt from sale by virtue of an execution,
must be recorded, as prescribed by law ; or a notice, con
taining a full description of the property, and stating that it
is designed to be so held, must be subscribed by the owner,
acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like manner as a
deed to be recorded in the county where the property is situ
ated ; and must be recorded in the office of the clerk of that
county, in a book kept for that purpose, and styled the
" homestead exemption book."
§ 1399. A lot of land, with one or more buildings there
on, owned by a married woman, and occupied by her as a
residence, may be designated as her exempt homestead, as
prescribed in the last section j and the property so designa
ted is exempt from sale, by virtue of an execution, under the
same circumstances, and subject to the same exceptions, as
the homestead of a householder, having a family.
§ 1400. The exemption, prescribed by the last three sec
tions, continues, after the death of the person in whose favor
the property was exempted, as follows*:
1. If the decedent was a woman, it continues, for the bene
fit of her surviving children, until the majority of the young
est surviving child.
2. If the decedent was a man, it continues for the benefit of
his widow and surviving children ; until the majority of the
youngest surviving child, and until the death of the widow.
But the exemption ceases earlier, if the property ceases to
be occupied, as a residence, by a person for whose benefit it
may so continue, except tj» otherwise prescribed in the next
section.
§ 1401. The right to exemption, of a person entitled
thereto, as prescribed in the last four sections, is not affected
by a suspension of the occupation of the exempt property, as
a residence, for a period not exceeding one year, which oc
curs in consequence of injury to, or destruction of, the dwel
ling house upon the premises.
§ 1402. The exemption of a homestead, otherwise valid
under the provisions of this article, is not void, because the
value of the property, designated as exempt, exceeds one
thousand dollars. In that case, the lien of a judgment at
taches to the surplus, as if the property had not been desig
nated as an exempt homestead ; but the property cannot be
sold by virtue of an execution, issued upon a judgment, as
against which it is exempt. After the return of such an exe
cution, the owner of the judgment may maintain a judgment
creditor's action, to procure a judgment directing a sale of
the property, and enforcing his lien upon the surplus.
§ 1403. Where the judgment, in a judgment creditor's
action brought as prescribed in the last section, or in any
other action affecting the title to an exempt homestead, di
rects the sale of the property, the court must so marshal the
proceeds of the sale, that the right and interest of each per
son in the proceeds, shall correspond, as nearly as may be, to
his right and interest in the property sold. Money, not exceeding one thousand dollars, paid to a judgment debtor, as
representing his interest in the proceeds, is exempt for one
year after the payment, as the property sold was exempt ;
unless, before the expiration of the year, he causes real prop
erty to be designated as an exempt homestead, as prescribed
in section one thousand three hundred and ninety-eight of this
act ; in which case, the exemption ceases, with respect to so
much of the money, as was not expended for the purchase of
that property ; and the exemption of the property so desig
nated extends to every debt, against which the property sold
was exempt. • Where the exemption of property, sold as pre
scribed in this section, has been continued after the judgment
debtor's death, or where he dies after the sale, and before
payment to him of his proportion of the proceeds of the sale,
the court may direct that portion of the proceeds, which rep
resents his interest, to be invested, for the benefit of the per
son or persons, entitled to the benefit of the exemption ; or to
be otherwise disposed of, as justice requires.
28N.Y.State
§ 1404. The owner of real property, exempt as prescribR p. 518.
ed in this article, may, at any time, subscribe a notice, and
personally acknowledge the execution thereof, before an offi
cer, authorized by law to take the acknowledgement of a
deed, to the effect, that he cancels all exemptions from levy
or sale by virtue of an execution, affecting the property, or a
particular part thereof? fully described in the notice. The
cancellation takes effect, when such a notice is recorded, as
prescribed in this article for recording a notice to effect the
exemption so cancelled. Any other release or waiver, here
after executed, of an exemption of real property, allowed by
this article, or of an exemption of a homestead, or a private
or family burying ground, allowed by the provisions of law
heretofore in force, is void. A mortgage, hereafter executed,
upon property so exempt, is ineffectual, until the exemption
has been cancelled, as prescribed in this section ; except that
such a mortgage is valid, to the extent of the purchasemoney of the same property, secured thereby.
§ 1405. The goods and chattels of a judgment debtor,
not exempt, by express provision of law, from levy and sale
by virtue of an execution, and his other personal property,
which is expressly declared by law, to be subject to levy by
virtue of an execution, are, when situated within the juris
diction of the officer, to whom an execution against property
is delivered, bound by the execution, from the time of the de
livery thereof to the proper officer, to be executed ; but not
before.
§ 1406. Where two or more executions against property
are issued, out of the same or different courts of record,
against the same judgment debtor, the one first delivered, to
an officer, to be executed, has preference, notwithstanding
that a levy is first made, by virtue of an execution subse
quently delivered ; but if a levy upon and sale of personal
groperty has been made, by virtue of the junior execution,
efore an actual levy, by virtue of the senior execution, the
same property shall not be levied upon or sold, by virtue of
the letter.*
§ 1407. Where there are one or more executions, and
one or more warrants of attachment, against the property of
the same person, the rule prescribed in the last section pre
vails, in determining the preferences of the executions or
warrants of attachment ; the defendant in the warrants of
attachment being, for that purpose, regarded as a judgment
debtor.
§ 1408. But an execution, issued out of a court not of
record, or a warrant of attachment, granted in an action
pending in a court not of record, if actually levied, has pref
erence over another execution, issued out of any court of re
cord or not of record, which has not been previously levied.
§ 1409. The title to personal property, acquired before
the actual levy of an execution, by a purchaser 111 good faith,
and without notice that the execution has been issued, is not
affected by an execution delivered, before the purchase was
made, to an officer, to be executed.
§ 1410. [AW 1877.] The officer, to whom an execution
against property is delivered, must levy upon current money
of the United States, belonging to the judgment debtor ; and
must pay it over, as so much money collected, without expos
ing it for sale ; except that where it consists of gold coin, he
must sell it, like other personal property ; unless he is other
wise directed, by an order of a judge, or by the judgment in
the particular case.
§ 141 1. [Atrid 1877.] The officer, to whom an execution
against property is delivered, must levy upon and sell, a bill,
or other evidence ol debt, belonging to the judgment debtor,
which was issued by a moneyed corporation to circulate as
money ; or a bond or other instrument for the payment of
money, belonging to the judgment debtor, which was execu* So in original.ted and issued by a government, state, county, public officer,
or municipal or other corporation, and is in terms negotiable,
or payable to the bearer, or holder.
§ 1412. The interest of the judgment debtor in personal
property, subject to levy, lawfully pledged, for the payment
of money, or the performance of a contract or agreement,
may be sold, in the hands of the pledgee, by virtue of an exe
cution against property. The purchaser at the sale acquires
all the right and interest of the judgment debtor, and is en
titled to the possession of the property, on complying with the
terms and conditions, upon which the judgment debtor could
obtain possession thereof. This section does not apply to
property, of which the judgment debtor is unconditionally en
titled to the possession.
CityCt.241.
§ 1413. Where an officer has seized personal property of
a partnership, before or after its dissolution, upon a levy up
on the interest therein of a partner, made by virtue of an
execution against his individual property, the other partners,
or former partners having an interest in the property, or any
of them, may, at any time before the sale, apply to a judge of
the court or to the county judge of the county, where the
seizure was made, upon an affidavit, showing the facts, for an
order, directing the officer to release the property, and to de
liver it to the applicant.
§ 1414. Upon such an application, the applicant must
1 CityCt.241. give an undertaking, with at least two sureties, approved by
the judge, to the effect, that he will account to the purchaser,
upon the sale to be made by virtue of the execution, of the in
terest of the judgment debtor in the property seized, in like
manuet as ho would be bound to account to an assignee of
such an interest ; and that he will pay to the purchaser the
balance, which may be found due upon the accounting, not ex
ceeding a sum, specified in the undertaking, which must be
not less than the value of the interest of the judgment debtor,
in the property seized by the sheriff, as fixed by the judge.
The provisions of sections six hundred and ninety-five and sii
hundred and ninety-six of this act apply to the proceedings,
taken as prescribed in this and the last section.
§ 1415. Where a warrant of attachment has been levied
upon the interest of a defendant, as a partner, in persoual
property of a partnership, and the attachment has been dis
charged as to that interest, as prescribed in sections six hun
dred and ninety-three and six hundred and ninety-four of
this act, a levy, by virtue of an execution against his individ
ual property, cannot be made upon his interest in the same
property, unless the warrant of attachment has been vacated,
or annulled.
§ 1416. Where personal property of a partnership has
been released, upon giving an undertaking, as prescribed in
the last three sections, if the execution, by virtue of which the
levy was made, is set aside, or is satisfied without a sale of
the interest levied upon, the undertaking enures to the benefit
of each judgment creditor of the same judgment debtor, then
having an execution in the hands of the same officer, or of
another officer, having authority to levy upon that interest,
as if it had boon given to obtain a "elease from a seizure, made
by virtue of such an execution.
§ 1417. Where personal property of a partnership has
been so released, the interest of the judgment debtor therein
may be sold by the officer ; and the purchaser, upon the sale,
acquires all that interest, as if he was an assignee thereof. If
the purchase money exceeds the amount of all the executions
and warrants of attachment, against the property of the same
judgment debtor, of which the officer has notice, and of the
lawful fees and charges thereon, the officer must pay the sur
plus into court, for the benefit of the judgment debtor, or
other person entitled thereto.
§ 1418. If personal property, levied upon as the property of the judgment debtor, is claimed, by or in behalf of an- 81 Hon, 40*.
other person, as his property, the officer may, in his discre
tion, empanel a jury to try the validity of the claim.
§ 1419. [Am?d 1877, 1888.] If by their inquisition the jur
ors find that the property belongs to the claimant they must
also determine its value. Thereupon the officer may relinquish
the levy unless the judgment creditor gives him an underta
king with at least two sufficient sureties, to the effect that the
sureties will indemnify him to an amount therein specified,
not less than twice the value of the property as determined
by the jury, and two hundred and fifty Hollars in addition
thereto, against all damages, costs and expenses, in an action
to be brought against him by any person, by the claimant,
his assignee or other representative, by reason of the levy up
on, detention or sale of any of the property by virtue of the
execution. If the undertaking is given the officer must detain
the property as belonging to the judgment debtor. Ar.din
the county of New York, where an undertaking is given to ..
indemnify an officer, he must, within two days after the giv
ing of the said undertaking, cause the same to be filed in tie office
of the clerk of the court out of which the execution was issued,
and serve upon the claimant, his assignee or other represen
tative, and the judgment creditor, or the attorney whose
name is subscribed to the execution, a copy of the said under
taking, with a notice of the justification of the sureties there
on. The justification must take place before a judge of the
court out of which the execution was issued, at a time to be
specified in the notice, which must be not less than two nor
more than five days after service of said notice. For (he
purpose of jurisdiction * each of the sureties upon the under
taking must attend before the judge, at the time and place
mentioned in the notice, and be examined on oath, on the part
of the claimant, his assignee or other representative, touch
ing his sufficiency, in such manner as the judge in his discre
tion thinks proper. The examination may be adjourned from
day to day until it is completed, but such adjournment must
be always to the next judicial day. If required by the claim
ant, his' assignee or other representative, the examination
must be reduced to writing and subscribed by the sureties.
If the judge finds the sureties sufficient he must annex the ex
amination to the undertaking, indorse his allowance thereon,
and cause the said undertaking, together with the examina
tion of the sureties, to be filed with the clerk of the court.
Thereupon the sheriff is released and discharged from all
further liability by reason of the levy upon, detention and
sale of the property seized. When any such undertaking shall
have been approved and filed as hereinabove provided, the
clerk of the court shall immediately, upon the same being
• So in original.
filed, index the same in the index book in his office, under
which executions are indexed, under the title of the suit in
which the execution is issued.
§ 1420. If the property is found to belong to the defend
ant, the finding does not prejudice the right of the claimant,
to bring an action to recover the property so levied upon, or
damages by reason of the levy, detention, or sale.
§ 1421. [ytm'd 1887.] Where an action to recover a chat*e^ or chattels hereafter levied upon by virtue of an executiOI1) or several executions, or a warrant of attachment, or several warrants of attachment, or to recover damages by reason
of a levy or levies upon detention, sale or sales of personal prop
erty hereafter made, by virtue of an execution or several exe
cutions, or a warrant of attachment or several warrants of at
tachment, is brought against an officer or against a person who
acted by his command or in his aid, if a bond or bonds or
written undertaking or undertakings indemnifying the officer
against the levy or levies, or other act or acts, has been given
in behalf of the judgment creditor or the several judgment
creditors, or the plaintifff in the warrant or the plaintifffs in
the several warrants, either before or after the commence
ment of the action, the persons or person or the several per
sons who gave it to them, or the survivors, if one or more are
dead, may apply to the court for an order to substitute the
applicant or several applicants as defendants in the action in
place of the officer or of the person so acting by his command
or in his aid ; and the court shall, upon application of the
officer, or in case of his death, upon the application of his legal
representatives, grant an order substituting the indemnitors
as defendants in the action in place of the officer or of the
persons so acting by his command or in his aid.
§ 1422. [Am'(J1887.] Where the application is made by the
officer, notice of the application must be given to the indemni
tors or their attorney, and also to the attorney for the plaint
iff. If the pleadings do not sufficiently show that the case is
one where the order may be granted, the facts with rsspect
thereto must be shown by affidavit or other competent proof.
Where the application is made by the indemnitors, or one of
them, the motion papers must contain a written consent to be
made defendant in the action executed by each person who
executed the instrument or instruments of indemnity, unless
proof by affidavit is furnished that those who do not consent
are dead. Each consent must be acknowledged or proved
and certified in like manner as a deed to be recorded in the
county, and notice of the application must be given to the at
torney of each party to the action, and if the defendant has
not appeared, notice must be given to him personally.
§ 1423. [Ani'd 1887.] Upon granting the order the court
may, in its discretion, require the idemnitofs to furnish addi
tional security to the plaintifff and to pay the reasonable e.v
penses of the defendant, necessarily incurred before the order
is granted, or it may impose such other terms for the security
of either of the original parties as justice requires.
§ 1424. lAirid 1887.] If the idemnity given related to a
part only of the property, the court may, in a proper case,
direct that the action be divided into two actions, that the
idemitors be substituted as defendants in one without affect
ing the other, aud that the controversy in each action be limited to that part of the property in respect to wh.eh it is to
be continued. Where such an order is made a similar appli
cation may be subsequently made in the action which pro
ceeds against the original defendant.
§ 1425. [Am'd 1887.] If the officer or person acting by
his command, or in his aid, is joined as a defendant, with all
of the idemnitors, he may apply for an order to strike out his
name as a defendant. If he is joined as a defendant with one
or more, but not all of them, he may apply for an order sub
stituting those who are not joined with him as defendants in
his place. In either case the application is made in the same
manner and is subject to the same provisions as if made as
prescribed in section fourteen hundred and twenty-one of
this act.
§ 1428. An order, made as prescribed in the last five
sections, does not affect the merits of the cause of action, or
of the defense, except so far as it limits the controversy to
particular property. But if the substituted or remaining de
fendants recover judgment, they are entitled to single costs
only. If the action is discontinued, or the complaint dis
missed, a new action may be brought, as if the former action
had not been brought.
§ 1427. [.4?)i'<n887.] Where an action is brought in
case where one or more persons are entitled to make an application for an order of substitution, or where one or more per
sons are liable to be substituted as defendants, as prescribed
in section one thousand four hnnrtred and twenty-one of this
act, the officer to whom the instrument or instruments of
indemnity was given cannot maintain an action thereupon
against a person entitled to make, but who has not made,
such an application, or who is liable to be but has not been
substituted as a defendant, unless notice of the commence
ment of the action against the officer, or the person acting by
his command or in his aid, is given before the trial thereof, or at
least ten days before judgment by default is taken therein
either to attorney or several attorneys whose name is or
several names are subscribed to the execution or several exe
cutions or warrants of attachment or several warrants of
attachment, or personally to the judgment creditor or credit
ors, or the plaintifff or several plaintiffs in the action in which
the warrant of attachment was or several warrants of at
tachment were issued, or to one of the persons who executed
the instrument or instruments of indemnity.
§ 1428. Personal property must be offered for sale, in
such lots and parcels as are calculated to bring the highest
price. Except where the officer is expressly authorized, by
this article, to sell property not in his possession, personal
property shall not be offered for sale, unless it is present, and
within the view of those attending the sale.
§ 1420. At least six days' previous notice of the time
and place of a sale of personal property, by virtue of an exe
cution, must be given, by posting conspicuously written or
printed notices thereof, in at least three pubiic places of the
town or city, where the sale is made.
§ 1430. The expression, " real property," as used in this and the succeeding article, includes leasehold property, where
the lessee or his assignee is possessed, at the tune of the sale,
nf at least five years unexpired term of the lease, and also of
the building or buildings, if any, erected thereupon.
§ 1431. Keal property, held by one person, in trust or
for the use of another, is liable to levy and sale by virtue of
an execution issued upon a judgment recovered against the
person, to whose use it is so held, in a case where it is pre
scribed by law, that, by reason of the invalidity of the trust,
an estate vests in the beneficiary ; but special provision is
not. otherwise made by law, for the mode of subjecting it to
his debts.
§ 1432. The judgment debtor's equity of redemption, in
real property mortgaged, shall not be sold by virtue of au
execution issued upon a judgment recovered for the mortgage
debt, or any part thereof.
§ 1433. Where an execution against property, is issued
upon a judgment specified in the last section, to the county
where the mortgaged property is situated, the attorney, or
other person who subscribes it, must Indorse thereupon a di
rection to the sheriff, not to levy it upon the mortgaged prop
erty, or any part thereof. The direction must briefly describe
the 'mortgaged property, and refer to the book and page,
where the mortgage is recorded. If the execution is not col
lected out of the other property of the judgment debtor, the
sheriff must return it wholly or party unsatisfied, as the case
requires.
§ 1434. The sheriff who sells real property, by virtue of
an'execution. must previously give public notice of the time
and place of the sale, as follows :
1. A written or printed notice thereof must be conspicuously
fastened up, at least forty-two days before the sale, in three
public places, in the town or city where the sale is to take
place, and also in three public places, in the town or city
where the property is situated, if the sale is to take place in
another town or city.
2. A copy of the notice must be published, at least once in
each of the six weeks, immediately preceding the sale, in a
newspaper published in the county, if there is one; or, if
there is none, in the newspaper printed at Albany, in which
legal notices are required to be published.*
§ 1435. In each notice, specified in the last section, the
real property to be sold must be described with common cer
tainty, by setting forth the name of the township or tract,
and the number of the lot, if there is any, or by some other
appropriate description. The validity ot a sale is not affect
ed by the fact, that the property sold is part only of the
property advertised to be sold.
§ 1436. A sheriff who sells real property, by virtue of
an execution without having given notice thereof, as pre
scribed in the last two sections, or otherwise than as prescrib
ed in this chapter, forfeits one thousaud dollars to the party
injured, in addition to the damages which the latter sustains
thereby.
.
§ 1437. Where real property, offered for sale by virtue
of an execution, consists of two or more known lots, tracts, or
* See L. 1884, c. 133, repealing all acts providing for a State paper.
puroein.^rairDt shiil have do force or e-ffr-K unless within twenty
daT*a'*"er toeea:ry of soch judgment tbe piaintiff ftaH [0.r
to sjc-n grantee or his asag-os tbe sum of money which v&
pj.il up<o the sate. wi:h interesS from tbe time of tbe salens
pr^cribed in this article, inchidinsj tbe costs and expensesof
isai'l defendant in defending the actaoa in which such jadgment wa» recovered, to be adjusted by a judge of the courin which said action is brought., and in the event of plaintifff-'
faiiure to pay such porchase-mooey and expenses within th"'
time aforesaid, said title shall be valid in said grantee, and ica.se such judgment has heretofore been recovered and an ap
peal has been taken therefrom which is now pending. •"■"'
such judgment shall be affirmed on final appeal. UKcan"
shall have no force or effect unless within twenty davs aft"
tbe entry of judgment of affirmance, tbe phuntirt shall pay '.'
such grantee or his assigns the sum of nvxiey which was p^1
upon the sale, with interest as aforesaid, including tbecosB
and expenses of the defendant as aforesaid, in proseeuW
any appeal from such judgment, and in the event of plaintifff'
failure so to do, said title shall be valid in said grantee.
§ 1441. The person entitled to the possession of rw
property, sold by virtue of an execution, as prescribed in last section, may, during the period therein specified, use and
enjoy the same as follows, without being chargeable with
committing waste :
1. He may use and enjoy it in like manner, and for the like
purposes, as it was used aud enjoyed before the sale, doing no
permanent injury to the freehold.
2. He may make necessary repairs to a building or other
erection thereii|>on. But this subdivision docs not permit an
alteration in the form or structure of the building or other
erection.
3. He may use and improve the land, in the ordinary course
of husbandry ; but he is not entitled to a crop, growing there
on, at the expiration of the period of redemption.
4. He may apply any wood or timber on the land to the
necessary reparation of a fence, building or other erection,
which was thereupon at the time of the sale.
5. If he actually occupies the land sold, he may take neces
sary firewood therefrom for use in his household.
§ 1442. If, at any time during the period allowed for re
demption, the judgment debtor, or any other person in pos
session of the property sold, commits, or threatens to commit,
or makes preparations for committing, waste thereupon, the
supreme court, or any justice thereof, within the judicial dis
trict, or the county judge of the county, in which the prop
erty, or any part thereof, is situated, may, upon the applica
tion of the purchaser, or his assignee, or the agent or attorney,
sf either, and proof, by affidavit, of the facts, grant, without
notice, an order, restraining the wrong-doer from committing
waste upon the property.
§ 1443. If the person, against whom each an order is
granted, commits wdste in violation thereof, after the service
apon him of the order, with a copy of the affidavit u\»m
which it was granted, the court, or judge, upon proof, by affi
davit, of the facts, may grant an order, renuiring ban t/> tf^yw
lause, at a time and place therein specified, way be utrwirf
aot be punished for a contempt.
§ 1 444. If. upon the return of the order to show ea«w. A
satisfactorily appears, that the persoB. required t/> ahf/» ''<■ >**■,
has violated the former order, toe court </r fJ-f. t:&.y e M»r
punish him, as prescribed by U», fortw- p.'jav/;j*-<.t */* *
•ontempt of acourtof record, other tba J.*'-'..- .:■<. -.•- v— r ;
ir may grant a warrant, direct**! X'j V* i4^— f •.•' * - .» ';>. ■ . ,
reciting the former order, and tb«r vy.iL*.* .i-js. ". o*- «•/ i.-..c -. r .
nanding the sherifT to commit U*t •mr'nvg n-^r v, <•, .^ *,*„
inement, for a term specified •*er»-i_ •-..<•, %/.<•*■ -•i«.t •**
rear. A person thus VAnBirj&A aitarx, v* w.iu?}**. v- "<•
ibcrties of the jail.
§ 1445. The warrant mr \* ve^r**/.,^. uis. a* /».«.
sr discharged, by an order, -i tii* '.'.:*:■• •• ,• n •/ vu». */n < v
judge committing ban. up-n. lut *rx*f:v u.,-. ;-. ia. f*#** »-'uv
ipplied for the warraj-T. sun ■Bderu^.m*' i s. mm. t /.>.( ,.i.t
vith sureties appTcnxi. br 1/Mr ',-i'. ' •• j. .
.-. -i.» <'*■•- •
hat he will pay acy judaBWiit. »'tir<Ji i» i-.,.,>i.':..o v '•■ •■
iignee, or other reprewarUCL-n*:. tm ;" **^-»- *-' <i/.n'^* '";• v
■eason of any warte tierevjj'."^- •.•• tou'wf .«• vioK''-/-' '"
he property ; and vy.mbttyuym]e '■■ ~-w »W"- ■•>< ' ■ ■'■*
:osts aud expenses «f tit ytvjs*ttu^/ *. ua ! <•:<, v v«*P
xjurt or judge.
§ 1446. Within one year after the sii.e of real property,
by Virtue of an execution, a person, specified in the next sec
tion, may redeem it, by paying to the purchaser, his eiecutor,
administrator, or assignee, or to the sheriff who made the sale,
for the use of the person so entitled thereto, the sum of money
which was paid upon the sale, with interest from the time of
the sale, at the rate of ten per centum a year.
§ 1447. The redemption specified in the last section, may
be made, either by the judgment debtor, whose right m»
title were sold, or by his heir, devisee or grantee, who has ac
quired, by inheritance, devise, deed, sale, by virtue of a mort
gage or of an execution, or by any other means, an absolute
title to the property proposed to be redeemed ; or, in a case
specified in section one thousand four hundred ami fifty-eight
or one thousand four hundred and fifty-nine of this act, toa
portion thereof.
§ 1448. Upon payment being made, by a person entitled
to redeem real property, as prescribed in the last two sec
tions, the sale of the property redeemed, and the certifi
cates of the sale as far as they relate thereto, become null and
void.
§ 1449. Real property, sold by virtue of an execution.
which remains, at the expiration of one year after the sale,
unredeemed by the person or persons entitled to redeem it. as
prescribed in the last three sections, may be redeemed, wiltin three months after the expiration of the year, by thecrcl
itors specified, and upon the terms and in the manner pre
scribed, in the following sections of this article.
32 Hnn 624.
^ 1450. In a case specified in the last section, a creditor.
'
having iu his own name, or as executor, administrator, as
signee, trustee, or otherwise, a judgment rendered, or »
mortgage duly recorded, at any time before the expiration of
fifteen months from the time of the sale, which is a lien upon
the real property sold, may redeem that property, by payin;
the sum of money, which was paid upon the sale thereof, will
interest at the rate of seven per centum a year from the time
of the sale, and executing a certificate of satisfaction, as pre
scribed iu section one thousand four hundred and sixty three
of this act.
§ 1451. 'Where a creditor has redeemed real property, a5
prescribed in the last section, any other creditor, who nii?W
nave redeemed it from the purchaser, as therein prescribed.
may redeem it from the first redeeming creditor, as follow- :
1. He must reimburse to the first redeeming creditor, li executor, administrator, or assignee, the sum paid by him!'
redeem the property, with interest at the rate of seven per
centum a year, from the time of his redemption.
2. He must execute a certificate of satisfaction, relating tc
his judgment or mortgage, in like manner as the first redeem
ing creditor was required to do.
3. If the judgment or mortgage, by virtue of which the first
creditor redeemed, is prior to the judgment or mortgage of
the second creditor, the second creditor must also pay U> toe
first creditor, the sum specified in the certificate of satisfac
tion, executed by him upon his redemption, with interest"
the rate of seven per centum a year, from the time of bis re
demption ; unless the first redeeming creditor's judgmeut. '•'
mortgage had ceased, when he redeemed, to be a lien as agaut: the second redeeming creditor ; in which raise, the latter need
not pay any part of the sum, specified in the certificate.
§ 1452. Where the lien of the second redeeming credit
or's judgment or mortgage, is prior to that of the first redeem
ing creditor's judgment or mortgage, so that the former re
deems, without paying the sum, specified in the hitter's certi
ficate of satisfaction, the latter may, without executing
another certificate of satisfaction, again redeem from the
former, or from any subsequent redeeiniug creditor, in a case,
where he would have been entitled to redeem, if his first cer
tificate had not been executed ; aud he has the same rights,
with respect to any creditor redeeming from him, as if his
first certificate had been executed, when he made his second
redemption.
§ 1453. A third or other creditor, who might have re
deemed, as prescribed in the last four sections, may redeem
from the second or any other creditor, who has redeemed, in
the manner, and upon the terms aud conditions, prescribed iu
the last two sections.
§ 1454. A creditor, who might have redeemed within 12u jj_y 217.
fifteen months after the sale, as prescribed in the last four
sections, may redeem from any other redeeming creditor,
although the fifteen months have elapsed ; provided, that he
thus redeems within twenty-four hours after the last previous
redemption.
§ 1455. A redemption, made by a creditor, on or after
the last day of the fifteen months, must be made at the sher
iffs office of the county. The sheriff, or his under-sheriff, or a
deputy-sheriff, in his behalf, must attend at the sheriff's office,
for that purpose, on the last day of the fifteen months, and on
each day thereafter, in which a redemption can be made, dur
ing the time when the sheriff's office is required by law to be
kept open. In the absence of the sheriff, the redemption may
be made, by paying the necessary money, and delivering the
necessary papers, to the under-sheriff, or to any deputy-sher
iff, present at the sheriffs office. If the term of office of the
sheriff, who made the sale, has expired, and he, or his undersheriff, or a deputy-sheriff authorized, in his behalf, to receive
the necessary money aud the necessary papers, is not present,
the money may be paid, and the papers may be delivered. to
the sheriff then in office, or to the under-sheriff or a deputysheriff of the latter.
§ 1456. If the purchaser, at the execution sale, of prop
erty, which can be redeemed by a creditor, as prev.-ri^J m
this article, is also a creditor of the judgment <h iA/>r. ■■usi as
such could redeem from a purchaser, or a redeeming cre/jjV/r,
he may a%*ail himself of his judgment or mortgage, to twit***
from any other redeeming creditor.
§ 1457. The judgment creditor, by virtue of whose exe
cution real propertyhas been sold, cannot ava.l b.iit.*;! -A
the judgment, upon which the execution was iav'J v> /«;
deem the property ; nor, except as otherwise y\/>?;.„. .. pie.
scribed in this article, can a creditor, woo liss'-n.'^; /•/>«.'->irf/JI
avail himself of the same judgment or mofijrajr*, to»- ',•>■«!
again. But if either has another ju'l/.-i.'-u*. or <ooi" /<•/»,
which would entitle him to redeem, i,K n-,y ■«■■>■■■ i. »./*■ f
thereof for that purpose, in the sau>c ui. .ur ,i «a«o ->u '^- <■*<**
terms, as any other creditor.
§ 1458. Where a person, who has an absolute title to, ora
judgment or mortgage, which is a lien upon, a distinct parcel
only of the real property, sold by virtue of an execution,
would be authorized, by this article, to redeem the property,
if his title or lien extended to the whole, he may redeem
from a purchaser, the entire property sold, or from a prior
redeeming creditor, the entire property redeemed by that
creditor; except that if his title or lien extends to a distinct
parcel only of one or more parts of the property, which were
separately sold, he can redeem, from a purchaser, only tinpart or parts thus separately sold, in which his distinct par
cel is included.
§ 1459. Where two or more persons own undivided
shares, as joint tenants, or as tenants in common, in real
property, sold by virtue of an execution, or in a distinct par
cel thereof, which has been separately sold ; each of them
may redeem, from the purchaser, as prescribed in sections
one thousand four hundred and forty-six and one thousand
four hundred and forty-seven of this act, the share or iuterest
belonging to him, by paying a part of the purchase money,
bid for the property, or for that distinct parcel thereof, bear
ing the same proportion to the whole as the share of interest,
proposed to be redeemed, bears to the property, or distinct
parcel separately sold, of which it is a part ; together with
interest on the sum so paid, from the time of the sale, at the
rate of ten per centum a year.
§ 1460. Where the judgment or mortgage of a creditor,
entitled to redeem, is a lien upon an undivided share, speci
fied in the last section, he may redeem, from a purchaser,
that undivided share, by paying him the same proportion of
the purchase money, which the owner must have paid to re
deem it, as prescribed in the last section ; or he may redeem,
from a prior redeeming creditor, the entire property redeem
ed by the latter, with like effect and in the same manuer as if
his lien attached to the whole.
§ 1461. The sheriff, the purchaser, the judgment credi
tor or a redeeming creditor, cannot, by his agreement or
other act, in any manner impair or prejudice the right of any
other person to redeem, as prescribed in this article.
§ 1462. The money required to be paid by a creditor, in
order to effect a redemption of real property, as prescribed
in this article, may be paid to the purchaser or creditor, from
whom the property is to be redeemed, his executor, adminis
trator or assignee ; or it may be paid, for the use of the per
son so entitled thereto, to the sheriff who made the sale.
§ 1463. The certificate of satisfaction, required to be
122N.Y. 322. executed by a creditor, in order to effect a redemption of
real property, must be aclcnowleged or proved, and certified,
in like manuer as a deed to be recorded in the county ; must
describe, with reasonable certainty, the judgment or mort
gage under which he redeems, and specify the sum due there
upon ; and must state, that the redemption satisfies the judg
ment or mortgage, in full, or to a speciticd amount. It must
be filed in the county clerk's office, at or before the time when
the money is paid to effect the redemption, unless the money
is paid to the sheriff ; in which case, the certificate must also
be delivered, at the time of the payment, to the sheriff, who
must file it in the county clerk's office, as prescribed iu section
one thousand four hundred and sixty-seveu of this act.
The county clerk, immediately after the execution and re
cording of the deed, must enter in his docket, the satisfac
tion, or partial satisfaction, of a judgment specified in a cer
tificate so filed, as required by law. when a judgment is
collected, by virtue of an execution. If a mortgage, specified
in the certificate, is recorded in his office, he must cancel and
discharge the mortgage of record, if it is satisfied by the cer
tificate ; or, if it is only partially satisfied, he must make a
minute of the partial satisfaction, upon the record thereof.
If the property mortgaged is situated in a county, in which
there is a register, the county clerk must transmit a certified
copy of the certificate to the register, who must, in like man
ner, cancel and discharge the mortgage of record, or make a
minute of the partial satisfaction thereof. The clerk's and
register's fees, for performing the services specified in this
section, must be paid by the sheriff ; who may require the
person entitled to a deed to pay him the amount thereof, be
tore the deed is delivered.
§ 1464. In order to entitle a creditor by judgment to re
deem real property, as prescribed in this article, be must,
when he redeems, file in the county clerk's office, or deliver
to the sheriff, as the case requires, the following evidence of
his right :
1. A copy of the docket of the judgment, under which he
claims the right to redeem, duly certified by the county clerk.
2. Each assignment of the judgment, which is necessary to
establish his right. An assignment so filed or delivered must
be acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like manner as
a deed to be recorded, or the execution thereof must be
proved, by the affidavit of the creditor, or of a witness there
to ; unless it has been filed, and entered, as prescribed in
article third of title first of chapter eleventh of this ace. in
which case, a certified copy thereof must be filed or delivered.
3. An affidavit, made by him, or his attorney or agent,
stating truly the sum remaining unpaid on the judgment, at
the time of claiming the right to redeem.
§ 1405. In order to entitle a creditor .by mortgage to re
deem real property, as prescribed in this article, he must,
when he redeems, file in the county clerk's office, or deliver
to the sheriff, the following evidence of his right :
1. A copy of the mortgage, under which he claims the rijrlit
to redeem, duly certifiea by the clerk or register of the
county.
2. Each assignment of the mortgage, which is necessary to
establish his right, acknowledged or proved, and certified, as
prescribed in the last section for an assignment of a judg
ment, unless it has been recorded; in which case a certified
copy of the record must be filed or delivered.
3. An affidavit, made by him, or by his attorney or agent,
stating truly the sum remaining unpaid on the mortgage, at
the time of claiming the right to redeem.
§ 1406. In either of the cases specified in the last two
sections, if the person, proposing to redeem, claims to be en
titled so to do, by reason of his being an executor or adminis
trator of a person, who, if living, would be entitled to redeem,
he must file or deliver, with tlie oilier papers therein pre
scribed, a certified copy or a sworn copy of his "
mentary, or letters of administration.
§ 1467. The sheriff to whom one or more papers, speei
fied in the last four sections, are delivered, must keep them
open, at all reasonable times during the period allowed for
redemption, to the inspection of all persons interested. He
must have all those papers at the sheriff's office, at the times
when he is required to attend thereat, for the purpose of en
abling creditors to redeem, as prescribed bv law ; and he
must hie them in the county clerk's office, witfiiu three days
after the execution of the deed.
§ 1468. A redemption by a creditor is effected, only
when he has paid all the money required to be paid, and filed
or delivered all the papers, required to be filed or delivered,
as prescribed in this article ; and a waiver of any of those re
quirements is void, as against a person who is entitled subse
quently to redeem. Where a redemption is thus effected, it
vests iu the redeeming creditor all the right, title and interest,
which the purchaser acquired by the sale.
§ 1469. "Where a redemption is made, as prescribed in
this article, the officer or other person, to whom money is
paid, or a paper is delivered, for the purpose of effecting the
redemption, must execute and deliver, to the person pay-in?
the money or delivering the paper, a certificate, stating aii
the facts which transpired before him, with respect to the re
demption.
§ 1470. Such a certificate may be acknowedged or prov
ed, and certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded in
the county where the property is situated. The recording
thereof, in the office of the clerk or register of that county, in
the book for recording deeds, has the same effect, as against
subsequent purchasers and encumbrancers, as the recording
of a conveyance.
§ 1471. [Am'd 1S8&] Immediately after the expiration
of fifteen mouths from the time of sale, except where a re
demption has been made on the last day of the fifteen months,
and, in that case, immediately after the expiration of t wentyfour hours from the last redemption, the sheriff who made the
sale must execute the proper deed or deeds in order to con
vey to the person or persons entitled thereto the part or parts
of the property sold, which have not been redeemed by the
judgment debtor, his heir, devisee or assignee. The deed
conveys to the grantee therein the right, title and interest
which was sold by the sheriff. After the same shall have
been recorded for twenty years in the county where the real
estate is situated, it shall be presumptive evidence of the facts
therein stated.
§ 1472. If any part of the property remains unredeemed
by a creditor, it must be conveyed, by the sheriff, to the pur
chaser upon the sale, except wliere the certificate of sale ha*
been assigned ; in which case, it must be conveyed to the last
assignee. Any part or partsof the property so"ld, which have
been rendered* by a creditor, must be conveyed by the slienti.
to the last redeeming creditor, except where he lias assigned
the certificate of redemption, or has executed any other as
signment of his right, title, and interest in the property re
deemed by him ; in which case, it must be conveyed to the
last assignee.
* So in original.
§ 1473. Where a person, entitled to a deed, dies before
the delivery of the deed, the sheriff must execute and deliver
the deed to his executor or administrator. The property so
conveyed must be held, in trust for the use of the heirs or
devisees of the decedent, subject to the dower of his widow,
if there is one ; but it may be sold, in a proper case, for the
payment of his debts, in the same manner as land, whereof he
died seized.
§ 1474. Before an assignee, or his executor or adminis
trator, is entitled to a deed, as prescribed in the last two
sections, each assignment, under which the deed is claimed,
must be acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like man
ner as a deed to be recorded in the county where the property
is situated, and must be filed in the office of the clerk of that
county.
§ 1475. Where a sheriff dies, is removed from office, or
becomes otherwise disqualified to act, at any time after mak
ing a sale of real property, by virtue of an execution, the
property, or a distinct parcel thereof, may be redeemed, by
paying the necessary money, and delivering the necessary
Eapers, to his under-sheriff, who must also execute and dever the proper deed or deeds of property, not redeemed by
the judgment debtor, his heir, devisee, or grantee. If the
under-sheriff also dies, is removed from office, or becomes
otherwise disqualified to act, the property may be redeemed,
by paving the necessary money, and delivering the necessary
papers, to the sheriff's successor in office, who must also exe
cute and deliver the proper deed or deeds. The undersheriff or the sheriff's successor, as the case requires, possesses
all the powers, and is subject to all the duties and liabilities
of the sheriff who made the sale, touching the redemption
and conveyance of property sold, and the proceedings rela
ting thereto ; and each provision of law, regulating those pro
ceedings, and applicable to the sheriff who made the sale, is
applicable to his under-sheriff or successor. This section ap
plies where a sale was made, either before or after this act
takes effect.
§ 1476. Where real property is sold, by virtue of an
execution, by the under-sheriff, or a deputy-sheriff, in behalf
of the sheriff, money required to be paid, or a paper required
to be delivered, to the sheriff, in order to effect a redemption,
as prescribed in this article, at any time before the last day of
the fifteen months from the time of the sale, may be paid or
delivered, either to the sheriff, or to the under-sheriff or
deputy-sheriff, who made the sale.
§ 1477. Where real property is sold, by virtue of an exe
cution, by a person specially appointed by the <:>>\>r\.. as pre
scribed in section one thousand three hundred and sixty-two
or section one thousand three hundred and eighty-<?ight of
this act, it may be redeemed, as prescribed in this article, as
if it had been sold by the sheriff, except as follows :
1. Money, required to be paid, ora paper, required to be de
livered, to the sheriff, in order to effect a redemption, as pre
scribed in this article, at any time before the lust duy of the
fifteen months from the time of the sale, must be paid to the
officer who made the sale ; unless the person entitled to re
deem, his agent or attorney, file* with the clerk of the county,
with the paper or papers required Ut be filed, or to be deliv
ered to the sheriff, for the purpose of effecting the redemption, his affidavit, to the effect, that the officer is dead ; or
has been removed ; or, where lie is a coroner, that he is no
longer in office ; or that after diligent search, the affiant has
been unable to find him within the county ; in which case, the
money may be paid into court, by paying it to the county
treasurer, to the credit of the cause, with like effect, as where
it is paid to the sheriff, after a sale by the latter.
3. The provisions of section one thousand four hundred and
fifty-five of this act, apply to a redemption, upon a sale made
as prescribed in this section; and the officer, who sold the
property, must attend, as the sheriff is therein required to at
tend. If he is not present, the redemption may be effected,
as prescribed in that section, for redemption in a c;ise, where
the term of office of the sheriff, who made the sale, has ex
pired.
§ 1478. If, when the period for redemption expires, a
coroner, or a person specially appointed by the court, who
has sold real property, by virtue of an execution, is dead, or
has been removed, or, in the case of a coroner, if lie is no
longer in office, the court must, upon the application of a per
son entitled to a deed, appoint a person, to execute the deed
accordingly.
§ 1479. The purchaser of real property, sold by virtue
of an execution, his heir, devisee, grantee, or assignee, who is
evicted from the possession thereof, or against whom judg
ment is rendered, in an action to recover the same, may re
cover the purchase-money, with interest, from the person for
whose benefit the property was sold; where the judgment was
rendered, or the eviction occurred, in conseqence, either :
1. Of any irregularity in the proceedings concerning the
sale ; or
2. Of the judgment, upon which the execution was issued
being vacated or reversed, or set aside for irregularity, or
error in face.
8 1480. Where final judgment is rendered, against the
defendant, in an action specified in subdivision fii-st of the last
section, the judgment, by virtue of which the sale was made,
remains, in his favor, valid and effectual against the judg
ment debtor therein, his executor, administrator, heir or de
visee, for the purpose of collecting the sum paid on the sale.
with interest. He may accordingly have a further execution
upon that judgment ; but the execution does not affect a pur
chaser in good faith, or an encumbrancer by mortgage, judg
ment or otherwise, whose title or whose encumbrance accrue" 1
before the actual levy thereof.
§ 1481. Where the real property of two or more pors.ii
is liable to satisfy a judgment, and the whole of tbe judgment,
or more than a due proportion thereof, has been collected,
by a sale of the real property of one or more of them, by
virtue of an execution issued upon the judgment : the person
so aggrieved, or his executor or administrator, may maintain
an action, to compel a just and equal contribution by all the
persons, whose real property ought to coutrilxite as prescribed
in the next section but one.
§ 1482. Where the heir, devisee, or grantee, of a judg
ment debtor, having^ an absolute title to a distinct parcel of
real property, sold t>y virtue of an execution, redeems, as
prescribed in section one thousand four hundred and fiftyeight of this act, the property sold, or any part or parts there
of separately sold, which include his property ; he may, in
like manner maintain an action, to compel a just and equal
contribution by those, who own the residue of the property
thus redeemed.
§ 1483. Where an action is brought, as prescribed in the
last two sections, the real property is liable to contribution in
the following order :
1. If it comprises different undivided shares or distinct par
cels, which have been conveyed by the judgment debtor, they
are liable in succession, commencing with the portion last con
veyed.
2. If it comprises different undivided shares or distinct par
cels, which have been sold by virtue of two or more execu
tions, they are liable in succession, commencing with the
portion sold under the last and youngest judgment.
3. If it comprises different undivided shares or distinct par
cels, some of which have been conveyed by the judgment
debtor, and some of which have been sold by virtue of one or
more executions, they are respectively liable in succession,
according to the order prescribed in the flrst and second sub
divisions of this section.
§ 1484. For the purpose of enforcing contribution, as
prescribed in the last section, the court, in which the action
is brought, may, and in a proper case, must, permit the plain
tiff to use the original judgment, and to collect, bv an execu
tion issued thereupon, out of any real property subject to tho
lien thereof, the sum which ought to be contributed by that
property. For that purpose the lien of the original judgment,
upon that real property, when preserved, as prescribed in the
next section, continues, for the term prescribed in sections one
thousand two hundred and fiftyone and one thousand two
hundred and fifty-five of this act, to the extent of the sum,
which ought to be so contributed, notwithstanding the pay
ment made by the party seeking contribution.
§ 1485. The lien of the original judgment may be pre
served, as prescribed in the last section, by filing, in the
clerk's office of the county where the real property is situated,
within twenty days after the payment, for which contribution
is claimed, an affidavit, in behalf of the person aggrieved,
stating the sum paid, and his claim to use the judgment for
the reimbursement thereof, with a notice, requiring the clerk
to make the entries specified in the next section. But the lien
is not preserved, as against a grantee or mortgagee in good
faith, for a valuable consideration, without notice, and be
fore the entries are actually made,

303 EXECUTION AGAINST THE PERSON.

§ 1480-1492

§ 1486. On filing the affidavit and notice, the clerk must
make, upon the docket of the judgment, an entry, stating the
sum paid, and that the judgment is claimed to be a lieu to
that amount. Where it is desired to preserve the lien, upon
property situated in two or more counties, a similar affidavit
and notice must be filed with, and a similar entry made by,
the clerk of each county.
TITLE III.
Execution against the person.
g 1487. In what cases execution
been taken.
may be issued against
£ 1492. New execution may issue
the person.
after escape.
1488. Id.; against a woman.
1493. Id.; when debtor dies
1489. When execution against
charged in execution.
property must be first
1494. Id.; when creditor dislssued.
charges debtor after
1490. Simultaneous executions
thirty days.
not allowed against
1495. New execution nottobe
property and person.
enforced against real
1491. Id.; when debtor has
property sold, etc.
22 Abb. N.
§ 1487. ZAm'd 1879.] Where a judgment can be enC. 73,
' forced by execution, as prescribed in section one thousand
two hundred and forty of this act, an execution, against the
person of the judgment debtor, may be issued thereupon,
subject to the exception specified iu the next section, in either
of the following cases ■
1. Where the plaintifffs right to arrest the defendant de
pends upon the nature of the action.
3. In any other case, where an order of arrest has been
granted and executed in the action, and if it was executed
against the judgment debtor where it has not been vacated.
§ 1488. [A-nCd 1879.] But an execution cannot be issued
against the person of a woman, unless an order of arrest has
been granted and executed in the action, and if it was execu
ted against the judgment debtor, has not been vacated.
45 Hun, 133.
§ 1489. Unless the judgment debtor is actually confined,
without having been admitted to the liberties of the jail, by
virtue of an execution against his person, issued in another
action, or of an order of arrest or a surrender by his bail, in
the same action, an execution against his person cannot be
issued, until an execution against his property has been re
turned, wholly or partly unsatisfied. If he is a resident of the
State, the execution against his property must have been
issued to the county where he resides.
8 1490. An execution against the person of the judgment
debtor cannot be issued, without leave of the court, while an
execution against his property, issued in the same action, re
mains uureturned ; and an execution against his property
cannot be issued, without leave of the court, while an execu
tion against his person, issued in the same action remains uu
returned.
§ 1401. Where a judgment debtor has been taken, and
remains in custody, by virtue of an execution against bis per
son, another execution cannot be issued, iu the same action,
against his person or his property, except iu a case specially
prescribed by law.
§ 1492. If a judgment debtor escapes, after having been
taken, by virtue of an execution against his person, he may foe retaken, by virtue of a new execution against his person ;
or an execution against his property may be issued, as if the
exection, by virtue of which he was taken, had been returned,
without his having been taken
g 1403. Where a judgment debtor, who has been taken
by virtue of an execution against his person, dies while in
custody, a new execution against his property may be issued,
as if the execution, by virtue of which he was taken, had
been returned without his having been taken.
§ 1494. At anytime after a judgment debtor has re
mained in custody, by virtue of an execution against his per
son, for the space of thirty days, the judgment creditor may
serve upon the sheriff a written notice, requiring him to dis
charge the judgment debtor from custody, by virtue of the
execution. Whereupon the sheriff must discharge the judg
ment debtor, and return the execution accordingly. After
service of such a notice, another execution, against the person
of the judgment debtor, cannot be issued upon the judgment ;
but after his discharge, the judgment creditor may otherwise
enforce the judgment, as if the execution, from which he
was discharged, had been returned, without his having been
taken.
§ 1495. A new execution against property, issued in a
case specified in the last two sections, cannot be enforced
against an interest in real property, including a chattel real,
which was purchased, in good faith, from the judgment deb
tor, after the recovery of the judgment upon which it is
issued ; or which was sold by virtue of an execution, issued
upon a previous or subsequent judgment.
§ 1496. In an action to recover real property, or the
state Rep. possession thereof, the plaintifff may demand in his coin
350, plaint, and in a proper case recover, damages for withhold
ing the property.
31 N. Y.
§ 1497. Those damages include the rents and profits or
state Rep. the value of the use and occupation of the property, where
350, either can legally be recovered by the plaintifff.
§ 1498. A mortgagee, or his assignee or other representa
tive, cannot maintain such an action, to recover the
mortgaged premises.
§ 1499. Such an action cannot be maintained, in
a case where an action for dower may be maintained, as
prescribed in article third of this title.
§ 1500. Where two or more persons are entitled to the
possession of real property, as joint tenants or tenants in
common, one or more of them may maintain such an action,
to recover his or their undivided shares in the property, in any case where such an action might be maintained by
alL
§ 1501. [Am'dl882.] Such an action may be maintained by a grantee, his heir or devisee in the name of the
grantor, or his heir, where the conveyance, under which he
claims, is void because the property conveyed was held
adversely to the grantor. The plaintifff must be allowed to
prove the facts to bring the case within this section. In
snch an action, a judgment against the plaintifff shall not
award costs to the defendant ; but where the defendant is
entitled to costs, as prescribed in section three thousand two
hundred and twenty-nine of this act, they may be taxed and
the person who maintained the action in the plaintifff's
name may be compelled to pay the same as prescribed in
section three thousand two hundred and forty-seven of this
act.
§ 150S. Where the complaint demands judgment for
the immediate possession of the property, if the property is
actually occupied, the occupant thereof must be made de
fendant in the action. If it is not bo occupied, the action
must be brought against some person exercising acts of
ownership thereupon, or claiming title thereto, or an in
terest therein, at the time of the commencement of the
action.
§ 1503. In either of the cases specified in the last section, any other person claiming title to, or the right to the
possession of, the real property sought to be recovered, as
landlord, remainderman, reversioner, or otherwise, adversely
to the plaintifff, may be joined as defendant' in an action
therefore.
§ 1504. When six months' rent or more is in arrear,
upon a grant reserving rent, or upon a lease of real property,
and the grantor or lessor, or his heir, devisee, or assignee,
has a subsisting right by law to re-enter for the failure to
pay the rent, he may maintain an action to recover the
property granted or demised, without any demand of the
rent in arcear, or re-entry on the property.
§ 1505. Where a right of re-entry is reserved and given
to a grantor or lessor of real property, in default of a suf
ficiency of goods and chattels whereon to distrain for the
satisfaction of rent due, the re-entry may be made, or an
action to recover the property demised or granted, may be
maintained, by the grantor or lessor, or his heir, devisee, or
assignee, at any time after default in the payment of the
lent ; provided the plaintifff, at least fifteen days before the
action is commenced, serves upon the defendant a written
notice of his intention to re-enter, personally, or by leaving
it at his dwelling house on the premises, with a person of
suitable age and discretion ; or, if the defendant cannot be
found with due diligence, and has no dwelliug house on
the premises, whereat a person of suitable age and discretion can be found, by posting it in a conspicuous place on
the premises.
§ 1506. At any time before final judgment for the
plaintifff is rendered, and the judgment-roll is filed, in an
action brought as prescribed in either of the last two sec
tions, the defendant may pay or tender to the plaintifff or
his attorney, or pay into court, all the rent then in arrear,
with interest and the costs of the action to be taxed ; and
thereupon the complaint must be dismissed.
§ 1507. In such an action, a verdict, report, or decision
in favor of the plaintifff, must fix the amount of rent in ar
rear to the plaintifff, or, if judgment is taken by default,
the amount thereof must be ascertained by or under the di
rection of the court ; and, in either case, it must be stated
in the judgment.
§ 1508. At any time within six months after possession
of the property, awarded to the plaintifff in such an action,
has been delivered to him, by virtue of an execution issued
upon a judgment rendered therein, the defendant, or any
person who has succeeded to his interest, or a mortgagee of
the lease, or of any part thereof, who was not in possession
when final judgment was rendered, may pay or tender to
the plaintifff, or his executor, administrator, or attorney, or
may pay into court, for the use of the person so en
titled thereto, the amount of rent in arrear, as stated in the
judgment, and the costs of the action, with interest, and
all other charges incurred by the plaintifff.
§ 1509. "Within three months after making the payment
or tender, the person who made it, or his representative,
may apply to the court for an order that possession of the
property be delivered to him ; and thereupon, upon proof
of the facts, and payment of the sum due by reason of rent
accruing since the judgment was rendered, and upon com
pliance with all other terms to be complied with by the
grantee or lessee, to the time of the application, the court
must make an order, directing that possession of the property
be delivered to the applicant, who shall hold and enjoy the
same, without any new grant or lease thereof, according to
the terms of the original grant or lease. Notice of the ap
plication must be served upon the plaintifff's attorney.
§ 1510. If possession of the property recovered has been
delivered to the plaintifff, by virtue of an execution issued
upon a judgment in the action, the order must provide for
setting off the s\im which the plaintifff has made, or which
he might, without willful neglect, have made, of the prop
erty, during the possession thereof, against the rent accru
ing after the judgment was rendered, and for re-irabursement to the applicant of the balance, if any, of the sum
paid into court by him, after making the set-off prescribed
in this section.
§ 1511. The complaint must describe the property claimed with common certainty, by setting forth the name
of the township or tract, and the number of the lot, if
there is any, or in some other appropriate manner ; so that,
from the description, possession of the property claimed
may be delivered, where the plaintifff is entitled thereto.
§ 1512. A defendant in an action to recover real prop
erty er the possession tbereof may, at any time before
answering, upon an affidavit that evidence of the authority
of the plaintifff's attorney to commence the action has not
been served upon him, apply, upon notice, to the court or
judge thereof, for an order directing the attorney to produce
such evidence.
§ 1513. Upon such an application, the court or judge
must, in a proper case, make an order, requiring the plain
tiff's attorney to produce, as directed therein, evidence of
his authority to commence the action, and staying all pro
ceedings therein, on the part of the plaintifff, until the evi
dence is produced.
§ 1514. Any written request of the plaintifff or his agent
to the plaintifff's attorney, to commence the action, or any
written recognition of his authority so to do, verified by the
affidavit of the attorney, or any other competent witness, is
sufficient presumptive evidence of such authority.
§ 1515. Where the action is brought by a tenant in j7 N y.
common, or a joint tenant, against his co-tenant, the plain- state kep.
tiff, besides proving his right, must also prove that the de7U8fendant actually ousted him, or did some other act, amount
ing to a total denial of his right.
§ 1516. Where there are two or more defendants, and
it is alleged, in the answer of either of them, that he occu
pies in severalty, or that he and one or more of his codefendants occupy jointly, one or more distinct parcels,
and that one or more other defendants possess other parcels,
in severalty or jointly, the court may, in its discretion, upon
the application of the plaintifff, and upon such terms as
justice requires, direct that the action be divided into as
many actions as are necessary. If the action is not so di
vided, and it appears, upon the trial, that the allegation is
true, the plaintifff must, before the evidence is closed, elect
against which defendant or defendants he will proceed;
and a judgment dismissing the complaint must thereupon.
be rendered, in favor of the other defendants.
§ 1517. The last section does not apply to a caw;, where
two or more defendants occupy different apartments in a
building. In such a case, in an action to recover the build
ing and its curtilage, the plaintifff is entitled to judgment
jointly against all the defendants who are liable to him.
§ 1518. Section one thousand five hundred and fcixteen
of this act does not apply to a case, where one or more defendante.answeririg as therein prescribed, hold under another
defendant, and the plaintifff elect* in proceed againat the latter, subject to the rights and interests of the former. In
such a case, the proceedings against the defendants so an
swering must be stayed until final judgment ; and if the
plaintifff recovers final judgment against the defendant,
under whom they hold, the judgment operates as a transfer
to the plaintifff of that defendant's right, title, and interest,
and the costs of the defendant or defendants so answering
are in the discretion of the court.
§ 1519. A verdict, report, or decision, in favor of the
plaintifff, in an action specified in this article, must specify
the estate of the plaintifff in the property recovered, whether
it is in fee, or for life, or for a term of years, stating for
whose life it is or specifying the duration of the term, if
the estate is less than a fee.
§ 1520. If the right or title of the plaintifff, in an action
specified in this article, expires after the commencement of
the action, but before the trial, and he would have been
entitled to recover, but for the expiration, the verdict, re
port, or decision must be rendered according to the fact ;
and the plaintifff is entitled to judgment for his damages
for the withholding of the property, to the time when his
right or title so expired.
§ 1521. The provisions of title fourth of chapter eighth
of this act, as applied to an action specified in this article,
are subject to the qualification that the court may, in its
discretion, proceed as prescribed either in that title or in
the next two sections.
§ 1522. Where, upon the death of a party, different
persons succeed to the decedent's title to, or interest in.
different distinct parcels of the property sought to be
recovered, the court may, upon motion, and upon such
terms as justice requires, direct that the action be divided
into as many actions as are necessary ; and that the suc
cessor to the title or interest of the decedent, to or in each
distinct parcel, be substituted as plaintifff or defendant as
the case requires, in the action relating thereto.
§ 1523. Where the plaintifff seeks to recover damages
for withholding the property, and, upon the death of a
party, different persons succeed to the decedent's right to
or liability for those damages, and to his title to or interest
in the property, the court may, upon motion made upon
notice to the persons to be affected, and upon such terms
as justice requires, direct the action to be divided into two
actions, one to recover the possession of the property, with
the rents and profits thereof accruing after the decedent's
death ; the other to recover the damages accruing before his
death ; and that the successor in interest of the decedent,
with respect to the cause of action in each action, be sub
stituted as plaintifff or defendant therein, as the case re
quires.
§ 1524. Except in a case where it is otherwise expressly prescribed in this act, a final judgment in an action speci
fied in this article, rendered upon the trial of an issue of
fact, is conclusive, as to the title established in the action,
upon each party against whom it is rendered, anil every
person claiming from, through, or under him. by title ac
cruing, either after the judgment-roll is filed, or after a
notice of the pendency of the action is filed in the proper
county clerk's office, as prescribed in article ninth of this
title.
§ 1525. The court, at any time within three years after
such a judgment is rendered, and the judgment-roll is riled,
upon the application of the party against whom it was
rendered, his heir, devisee, or assignee, and upon payment
of all costs, and all damages, other than for rents and
profits, or for use and occupation, awarded thereby to the
adverse party, must make an order vacating the judgment,
and granting a new trial in the action. The court upon a
like application, made within two years after the second
final judgment is rendered, and the judgment-roll is filed,
may make an order vacating the second judgment, and
granting a new trial, upon the like terms, if it is satisfied that
justice will be thereby promoted, and the rights of the
parties more satisfactorily ascertained and established.
Not more than two new trials shall be granted under this
section.
§ 1526. A final judgment for the plaintifff, rendered in an
action specified in this article, otherwise than upon the trial
of an issue of fact, is, after the expiration of three years
from the filing of the judgment-roll, conclusive upon the
defendant, and every person claiming from, through, or
under him, by title accruing, either after the judgment-roll
is filed, or after a notice of the pendency of the action is
filed in the proper county clerk's office, as prescribed in
article ninth of this title. But within five years after the
judgment-roll is filed, the court, upon the application of
the defendant, his heir, devisee, or assignee, and upon pay
ment of all costs and damages awarded to the plaintifff,
must make an order vacating the judgment, and granting a
new trial, if it is satisfied that justice will be thereby pro
moted, and the rights of the parties more satisfactorily
ascertained and established ; but not otherwise.
§ 1527. In a case specified in the last section, if the de
fendant is, at the time of the filing of the judgment-roll,
either :
1. Within the age of twenty-one years ; or,
2. Insane; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon
conviction of a criminal offense, for a term less than for
life;
The time of such a disability is not a part of the three
years, specified in the last section ; but such a defendant,
his heir, devisee, or assignee, may commence an action for the recorery of the real property claimed, at any time with
in three years after the disability ceases ; hut not after
wards.
§ 1528. The last three sections are not applicable, where
the action is founded upon an allegation of rent in arrear •
or in a case to which section four hundred and forty-five of
this act is applicable.
§ 1689. Where the plaintifff has taken possession of real
property, by virtue of a final judgment, his possession shall
not be in any way affected by the vacating of the judgment,
except as prescribed in section one thousand five hundred
and twenty-five or section one thousand five hundred and
twenty-six of this act. In such a case, if the defendant
thereafter recovers final judgment in the action, it must
award to him the restitution of the possession of the prop
erty ; and he may have an execution thereupon for the
delivery of the possession to him, as if he was plaintifff.
§ 1 530. Upon a new trial, granted as prescribed in this
article, the defendant may show any matter in defense,
which he might show to entitle him to recover the posses
sion of the property, if he was plaintifff in the action,
si Han, 119.
§ 1531. In an action, brought as prescribed in this
article, the plaintifff, where he recovers judgment for the
property, or possession of the property, is entitled to recover,
as damages, the rents and profits or the value of the use
and occupation of the real property recovered, for a term
not exceeding six years ; but the damages shall not include
the value of the use of any improvements made by the de
fendant, or those under whom he claims. Where perma
nent improvements have been made, in good faith, by the
defendant, or those under whom he claims, while holding,
under color of title, adversely to the plaintifff, the value
j
thereof must be allowed to the defendant, in reduction of
the damages of the plaintifff, but not beyond the amount of
those damages.
i .
§ 1532. Where two or more persons hold and are in
possession of real property, as joint tenants or as tenants in
common, in which either of them has an estate of inheri
tance, or for life, or for years, aDy one or more of them may
maintain an action for the partition of the property, accord
ing to the respective rights of the persons interested there
in ; and for a sale thereof, if it appears that a partition
thereof cannot be made, without great prejudice to the
owners.
§ 1533. [Am'd 1887.] Where two or more persons hold
as joint tenants, or as tenants in common, a vested remain
der or reversion, any one or more of them may maintain an
action for the partition of the real property to which it at
taches, according to their respective shares therein, subject
to the interest of the person holding the particular estate
therein, but no sale of the premises in such an action shall
be made, except by and with the consent in writing, to be
acknowledged or proved and certified in like manner as a
deed to be recorded, by the person or persons owning and
holding such particular estate or estates ; and if in such an
action it shall appear in any stage thereof that partition or gale cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners,
the complaint must be dismissed. The dismissal of the
complaint, as herein provided, shall not affect the right of
any party to bring a new action, after the determination of
such particular estate.
§ 1534. An action for the partition of real property
shall not be brought by an infant, except by the written au
thority of the surrogate of the county in which the property,
or a part thereof, is situated. The authority shall not be
given, unless the surrogate is satisfied, by affidavit or other
competent evidence, that the interests of the infant will be
promoted by bringing the action. A judgment for a par
tition or sale shall not be rendered in such an action, unless
the court is satisfied that the interests of the infant will be
promoted thereby, and that fact is expressly recited in the
judgment.
§ 1535. A guardian ad litem for an infant party, in an
action for partition, can be appointed only by the court.
§ 1536. [Am'd 1884.] The security to be given by the
19 Abb. N.
C.406.
guardian ad litem for an infant party in an action for par
tition must be a bond, to the people of this state, executed
by him and one or more sureties as the court directs, in a
sum fixed by the court conditioned for the faithful dis
charge of the trust committed to him as guardian, and to
render a just and true account of his guardianship in any
court or place where thereunto required. The bond must
be filed with the clerk before the guardian enters upon the
execution of his duties, and it cannot be dispensed with
although he is the general guardian of the infant.
3 now. Pr.
§ 1537. A person claiming to be entitled, as a joint tenant
or a tenant in common, by reason of his being an heir of a
person who died, holding and in possession of real prop
erty, may maintain an action for the partition thereof,
whether he is in or out of possession, notwithstanding an
apparent devise thereof to another by the decedent, and
possession under such a devise. But in such an action,
the plaintifff must allege and establish that the apparent de
vise is void.
§ 1538. [Am'd 1890.] Every person having an un
divided share, in possession or otherwise, in the property,
as tenant in fee, for life, by the curtesy, or for years ;
every person entitled to the reversion, remainder, or in
heritance of an undivided share, after the determination of
a particular estate therein ; every person who, by any con
tingency contained in a devise, or grant, or otherwise, is
or may become entitled to a beneficial interest in an un
divided share thereof ; every person having an inchoate
right of dower in an undivided share in the property ; and
every person having a right of dower in the property, or
any part thereof, which has not been admeasured, must
be made a party to an action for a partition. But no person other than a joint tenant or a tenant In common of
the property, shall be a plaintifff in the action. In a parti
tion action, the executors or administrators and creditors
of a deceased person who, if living should be a party to
said action, must be made parties defendant. And if" the
complaint in such action alleges, and it is made to appear
by proof that there are unpaid debts of said deceased
payable out of his estate, the premises sought to be
partitioned may be sold free from such debts, and the
money produced by such sale shall be brought into court,
and the same, or so much thereof as may be necessary,
shall be used for the payment of such debts in the same
manner as debts of a deceased person are paid from the
proceeds of sale of real estate in the surrogate's court. And
the court in which the said action is brought may proceed
to ascertain such debts and direct their payment from such
proceeds ; or such court may direct such money to be paid
into the proper surrogate's court, and direct the same to be
administered as if the sale of such interest in suid land had
been made upon the decree of such surrogate.
§ 1539. The plaintifff may, at his election, make a U Ahb. N
tenant in dower, by the curtesy, for life, or for years, of the c- **•
entire property, or a creditor, or other person, having a lien
or interest, which attaches to the entire property, a defend
ant in the action. In that case, the final judgment may
either award to such a party his or her entire right and in
terest, or the proceeds thereof, or may reserve and leave
unaffected his or her right and interest, or any portion there
of. A person specified in this section, who is not made a
party, is not affected by the judgment in the action.
§ 1540. The plaintifff may, at his election, make a
creditor, having a lien on an undivided shaie or interest in
the property, a defendant in the action. In that case, he
must set forth the nature of the lien, and specify the share
or interest to which it attaches. If partition of the property
is made, the lien, whether the creditor is or is not made a
party, shall thereafter attach only to the share or interest
assigned to the party upon whose share or interest the lien
attached ; which must be first charged with its just propor
tion of the costs and expenses of the action, in preference to
the lien.
§ 1541. Where a defendant having a share or interest
in the property is unknown, or where his name or part of
his name is unknown, and the summons is served upon him
by publication, or without the State, pursuant to an order for
that purpose, as prescribed in article second of title first of
chapter fifth of this act, the notice subjoined to the copy of
the summons as published, or served therewith, must, in ad
dition to the matters required in that article, state briefly the
object of the action, and contain a brief description of the
property.
§ 1548. The complaint must describe the property
with common certainty, and must specify the rights, shares,
and interests therein of all the parties, as far as the same
are known to the plaintifff. If a party, or the share, right,
or interest of a party, is unknown to the plaintifff ; or if a
share, right, or interest is uncertain or contingent ; or if the
ownership of the inheritance depends upon an executory
devise ; or if a remainder is a contingent remainder, so
that the party cannot be named ; that fact must also be
stated in the complaint.
§ 1543. The title or interest of the plaintifff in the
property, as stated in the complaint, may be controverted
by tue answer. The title or interest of any defendant in jthe property, as stated in the complaint, may also be con
troverted by his answer, or the answer of any other defendant ; and the title or interest of any defendant, as stated in
his answer, may be controverted by the answer of any other
defendant. A defendant, thus controverting the title or in
terest of a co defendant, must comply with section five hun
dred and twenty one of this act. The issues, joined as
prescribed in this section, must be tried and determined in
the action.
§ 1544. An issue of fact joined in the action is triable
Dy a Jurv/ Un'ess the court directs the issues to be stated,
M prescribed in section nine hundred and seventy of this
act, the issues may be tried upon the pleadings.
§ 1545. Where a defendant has made default in ap
pearing or pleading, or where a party is an infant, the court
must ascertain the rights, shares, and interests of the sev
eral parties in the property, by a reference, or otherwise,
before interlocutory judgment is rendered in the action.
§ 1546. The interlocutory judgment must declare what
*s tne r'£"t, s^are> or interest of each party in the property,
as far us tne same has been ascertained, and must determine
the rights of the parties therein. Where it is found, by the
verdict, report, or decision, or where it appears to the court,
upon an application for judgment in favor of the plaintifff,
that the property, or any part thereof, is so circumstanced
that a partition thereof cannot be made without great prej
udice to the owners, the interlocutory judgment, except
as otherwise expressly prescribed in this article, must direct
that the property, or the part thereof which is so circum
stanced, be sold at public auction. Otherwise, an interloc
utory judgment in favor of the plaintifff, must direct that
partition be made between the parties, according to their
respective rights, shares, and interests.
§ 1547. Where the right, share, and interest of a party
has been ascertained and determined, and the rights, shares,
or interests of the other parties, as between themselves,
remain unascertained or undetermined, an interlocutory
judgment for a partition, rendered as prescribed in the last section, must direct a partition, as between the party whose
share has been so determined and the other parties to the
action. Where the rights, shares, and interests of two or
more parties have been thus ascertained and determined,
the interlocutory judgment may also direct the partition
among them of a part of the property, proportionate to
their aggregate shares. In either case, the court may, from
time to time, as the other rights, shares, and interests are
ascertained and determined, render an interlocutory judg
ment, directing the partition, in like manner, of the remain
der of the property. Where an interlocutory judgment is
rendered, in a case specified in this section, the court may
direct the action to be severed, and final judgment to be
rendered, with respect to the portion of the property set
apart to the parties, whose rights, shares. aDd interests are
determined, leaving the action to proceed as against the
other parties, with respect to the remainder of the prop
erty ; and, if necessary, the court may direct that one of
those parties be substituted as plaintifff.
§ 1548. Where two or more parties, to an action for
partition, make it appear to the court, that they desire to
enjoy their shares in common with each other, the interloc
utory judgment may, in the discretion of the court, direct
partition to be so made, as to set off to them their shares of
the real property partitioned, without partition as between
themselves, to be held by them in common.
§ 1549. Where the interlocutory judgment, in an action
for partition, directs a partition, it must designate three
reputable and disinterested freeholders as commissioners,
to make the partition so directed.
§ 1550. Each of the commissioners must, before enter
ing upon the execution of his duties, subscribe and take an
oath before an officer specified in section eight hundred
and forty-two of this act, to the effect that he will faith
fully, honestly, and impartially discharge the trust reposed
in him. Each commissioner's oath must be filed with the
clerk, before he enters upon the execution upon his duties.
The court may, at any time, remove either of the commis
sioners. If either of them dies, resigns, neglects or refuses
to serve, or is removed, the court may, from time to time,
by order, appoint another person in his place.
§ 1551. The commissioners must forthwith proceed to
make partition, as directed by the interlocutory judgment,
unless it appears to them, or a majority of them, that par
tition thereof, or of a particular lot, tract, or other portion
thereof, cannot be made, without great prejudice to the
owners ; in which case, they must make a written report
of that fact to the court.
§ 1552. In making the partition, the commissioners
must divide the property into distinct parcels, and allot the
several parcels thereof to the respective parties, quality and quantity being relatively considered, according to the re
spective rights and interests of the parties, as fixed by the
interlocutory judgment. They must designate the several
parcels by posts, stones, or other permanent monuments.
They may employ a surveyor, with the necessary assistants,
to aid them in so doing.
§ 1553. Where a party has a right of dower in the prop
erty, or a part thereof, which has not been admeasured, or
has an estate by the curtesy, for life, or for years, in an
undivided share of the property, the commissioners may
allot to that party his or her share of the property, without
reference to the duration of the estate. And they may
make partition of the share, so allotted to that party,
among the parties who are entitled to the remainder or
reversion thereof, to be enjoyed by them upon the determi
nation of the particular estate, where, in the opinion of the
commissioners, such a partition can be made without prej
udice to the rights of the parties.
§ 1554. All the commissioners must meet together in
the performance of any of their duties ; but the acts of a
majority so met are valid. They, or a majority of them,
must make a full report of their proceedings, under their
hands, specifying therein the manner in which they have
discharged their trust, describing the property divided, and
the share or interest in a share, allotted to each party, with
the quantity, courses, and distances, or other particular
description of each share, and a description of the posts,
stones, or other monuments; and specifying the items of
their charges. Their report must be acknowledged or
proved, and certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded,
and must be filed in the office of the clerk.
§ 1555. The fees and expenses of the commissioners,
including the expense of a survey, when it is made, must be
taxed under the direction of the court ; and the amount
thereof must be paid by the plaintifff, and allowed as part
of his costs.
§ 1556. The court must confirm or set aside the report,
and may, if necessary, appoint new commissioners, who
must proceed as directed in this article.
UN. T.
§ 1557. Upon the confirmation, by the court, of the
state Rep. report of the commissioners making partition, final judg61- ment, that the partition be firm and effectual forever, must
be rendered, which is binding and conclusive upon the fol
lowing persons :
1. The plaintifff ; each defendant upon whom the sum
mons was served, either personally, or without the State,
or by publication, pursuant to an order obtained for that
purpose, as prescribed in chapter fifth of this act ; and the
legal representatives of each party, specified in this sub
division. So much of section four hundred and forty-five
of this act, as requires the court to allow a defendant to dc
 fend an action, after final judgment, does not apply to an
action for partition.
2. Each person claiming from, through, or under such a
party, by title accruing after the riling of the judgmentroll, or after the filing, in the proper county clerk's office,
of a notice of the pendency of the action, as prescribed in
article ninth of this title.
3. Each person not in being when the interlocutory
judgment is rendered, -who, by the happening of any con
tingency, becomes afterwards entitled to a beneficial in
terest attaching to, or an estate, or interest in, a portion of
the property, the person first entitled to which, or other
virtual representative whereof, was a party specified in the
first subdivision of this section.
But this section does not apply to a party, whose right
and interest are expressly reserved and left unaffected, as
prescribed in section one thousand five hundred and thirtynine of this act, or to a person claiming from, through, or
under such a party.
§ 1558. The final judgment must also direct that each
of the parties, who is entitled to possession of a distinct
parcel allotted to him, be let into the possession thereof,
either immediately, or after the determination of the par
ticular estate, as the case requires.
§ 1559. The final judgment for the partition of the
property must also award, that each defendant pay to the
plaintifff his proportion of the plaintifff's costs, including
the extra allowance. The sum to be paid by each must be
fixed by the court, according to the respective rights of the
parties, and specified in the judgment. If a defendant is
unknown, his proportion of the costs must be fixed and
specified in like manner. An execution against an unknown
defendant may be issued, to collect the costs awarded
against him, as if he was named in the judgment ; and his
right, share, or interest in the property may be sold by vir
tue thereof, as if he was named in the execution.
§ 1560. If the commissioners, or a majority of them,
report that the property, or a particular lot, tract, or other
portion thereof, is so circumstanced, that a partition thereof
cannot be made, without great prejudice to the owners
thereof, the court, if it is satisfied that the report is just
and correct, may thereupon, except as otherwi: e expressly
prescribed in this article, modify the interlocutory judgj
ment, or render a supplemental interlocutory judgment,
reciting the facts, and directing that the property, or the
distinct parcel thereof so circumstanced, be roM by a
referee, designated in the judgment, or by the sheriff.
§ 1561. Before an interlocutory judgment for the sale 3 How. Pr.
of real property is rendered, in an action for partition, N. s. ««.
the court must, either with or without application by a
party, direct a reference, to ascertain whether there is any creditor, not a party, who has a lien on the undivided share
or intere^., of any party. But the court may direct or dis
pense with such a reference, in its discretion, where a party
produces a search, certified by the clerk, or by the clerk
and register, as the case requires, of the county where the
property is situated; and it appears therefrom, and by the
affidavits, if any, produced therewith, that there is no such
outstanding lien.
5N. T.
§ 1562. [Am'd 1887.] Where a reference is directed, as •
siate Rep. prescribed in the last section, the referee must cause a
notice to be published once in each week for six successive
weeks in such newspaper published in the county
wherein the place of trial is designated as shall be desig
nated by the court directing said reference, and also in a
newspaper published in each county wherein the property
is situated, requiring each person not a party to the action,
who, at the date of the order, had a lien upon any undi
vided share or interest in the property, to appear before the
referee, at a specified place, and on or before a specified
day, to prove his lien, and the true amount due or to be
come due to him by reason thereof. The referee must re
port to the court, with all convenient speed, the name of
each creditor whose lien is satisfactorily proved before him,
the nature and extent of the lien, the date thereof, and the
amount due or to become due thereupon.
§ 1563. If it appears by the pleadings, or by the evi
dence in the action, or by the report, that there was, at the
date of the order, any existing .ien upon the share or inter
est of a party in the property, the interlocutory judgment,
directing the sale, must also direct the officer making it to
pay into court the portion of the money, arising from the
sale of the share or interest of that party, after deducting
the portion of the costs and expenses for which it is liable.
§ 1564. Where money is paid into court, in a case
specified in the last section, the party may apply to the
court for an order directing that the money, or such part
thereof as he claims, be paid to him. Upon such an appli
cation, he must produce the following papers :
1. An affidavit, made by himself, or, if a sufficient
excuse is shown, by his agent or attorney, stating the true
amount actually due on each encumbrance, and the name
and residence of the owner of the encumbrance, as far as
they are known, or can be ascertained with due diligence.
2. An affidavit, showing service of a notice of the appli
cation upon each owner of an encumbrance. Service of the
notice, within the State, must be personal, or by leaving it
at the owner's residence, with some person of suitable age
and discretion, at least fourteen days previous to the appli
cation. Service, without the State, if personal, must be
made at least twenty days previous to the application. If
the owner of the encumbrance resides without the State,
and the place of his abode cannot be ascertained, with reasonable diligence, notice may be served upon him by pub
lishing it in the newspaper printed tit Albany, in which
legal notices are required to lie published, once in each
week for the four weeks immediately preceding the appli
cation.
Upon the application, the court must make such an order
as justice requires.
§ 1565. When the whole amount of the unsatisfied
liena upon an undivided share, which were existing at the
date of the order of reference, h:is been ascertained, the
court must order the portion of the money so paid into
court, on account of that share, to be distributed among
the creditors having the liens, according to the priority of
each of them. Where the encumbrancer is not a party to
the action, the clerk or other officer, by whom a lien is paid
off, must procure satisfaction thereof to be acknowledged
or proved, as required by law, and must cause the incum
brance to be duly satisfied or cancelled of record. The
expense of so doing must be paid out of the portion of the
money in court, belonging to the party, by whom the
encumbrance was payable.
§ 1566. The proceedings to ascertain and settle the
liens upon an undivided share, as prescribed in the last
three sections, shall not affect any other party to the action,
or delay the paying over or investing of money, to or for
the benefit of any other party, upon whose share or interest
in the property there does not appear to be aay existing
lien.
§ 1567. Where a party has an existing right of dower
in the entire property directed to be sold, at the time when
an interlocutory judgment for a sale is rendered in an action
for partition, the court must consider and determine
■whether the interests of all the parties require, that the
right of dower should be excepted from the sale, or that it
should be sold.
§ 1568. If a sale of the property, including the right of
dower, is directed, the interest of the party entitled to the
right of dower shall pass thereby ; and the purchaser, his
heirs and assigns shall hold the property free and dis
charged from any claim, by virtue of that right. In that
case, the dowress is entitled to receive, from the proceeds
of the sale of the whole property, a gross sum, in satisfac
tion of her right of dower, or to have one third of those
proceeds paid into court, for the purpose of being invested
for her benefit, as prescribed in the next section with re
spect to the dowress of an undivided share.
§ 1 569. A party to an action for partition, who has a
right of dower, or is a tenant for life, or for years,
in or of an undivided share of the property sold, is
entitled to receive, from the proceeds of the sale,
a gross sum, to be fixed according to the princi-plea of law applicable to annuities, in satisfaction of his
or her estate or interest. The 'written consent of the party
to receive such a gross sum, acknowledged or proved, and
certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded, must be
filed, at the time of, or before, the filing of the report of
sale ; otherwise, the court must direct that, out of the pro
ceeds of the sale, which belong to the undivided share to
which the estate or interest attaches, one third, in case of
a dowress, and in any other case arising under this section,
the entire proceeds, or such a proportion thereof as fairly
represents the interest of the holder of the particular estate,
be paid into court, for the purpose of being invested for his
or her benefit.
§ 1570. Where it appears, that a party to the action has
an inchoate right of dower, or any other future right or
estate, vested or contingent, in any of the property sold,
the court must fix the proportional value of the right or es
tate, according to the principles of law applicable to annui
ties and survivorships, and must direct that proportion of
the proceeds of the sale to be invested, secured, or paid
over, in such a manner as it deems best calculated to pro
tect the rights and interests of the parties.
§ 1571. A married woman may release to her husband
her inchoate right of dower, in the property directed to be
sold, by a written instrument, duly acknowledged by her
and certified, as required by law with respect to the ac
knowledgment of a conveyance to bar her dower ; which
must be filed with the clerk. Thereupon, the share of the
proceeds of the sale, arising from her contingent interest,
must be paid to her husband.
§ 1572. If a person, entitled to an estate or interest in
the property sold, is made a party as an unknown defend
ant, the court must provide for the protection of his rights
as far as may be, as if he was known and had appeared.
§ 1573. The court must, in the interlocutory judgment
for a sale, direct the terms of credit which may be allowed
for any portion of the purchase-money, of which it thinks
proper to direct the investment, and for any portion of the
purchase-money, which is required to be invested for the
benefit of a person, as prescribed in this article.
§ 1574. The portion of the purchase-money, for which
credit is so allowed, must always be secured at interest, by
a mortgage upon the property sold, with a bond of the pur
chaser; and by such additional security, if any, as the
court prescribes.
§ 1575. The officer making the sale may take separate
mortgages and other securities, in the name of the county
treasurer of the county in which the property is situated,
for such convenient portions of the purchase-money, as are
directed by the court to be invested ; and in the name of the owner, for the share of any known owner of full age, who
desires to have it invested.
§ 1S76. Immediately after completing the sale, the
officer making it must file with the clerk his report thereof,
under oath, containing a description of each parcel sold, the
name of the purchaser thereof, and the price at which it
was sold.
§ 1677. If the sale is confirmed by the court, a final US.I.
judgment must be entered, confirming it accordingly ;
fcweHcp.
directing the officer making it to execute the proper con
veyances, and take the proj>er securities, pursuant to the
sale ; and also directing concerning the application of the
proceeds of the sale. Such a final judgment is binding and
conclusive upon the same persons, upon whom a final
judgment for partition is made binding and conclusive by
section one thousand five hundred ana fifty-wen of this
act ; and it effectually bars each of those persons, who is
not a purchaser at the sale, from all right, title, and interest
in the property sold.
§ 1578. \Am'd 1883.] Such a final judgment is also a
bar against each person, not a party, who has, at the time
when it is rendered, a general lien, by judgment or decree,
on the undivided share or interest of a party, if notice was
given to appear before the referee and make proof of liens,
as prescribed in section fifteen hundred and sixty-two of this
act, and also against each person made a party, who then
has a specific lien on any such undivided share or interest ;
but a person having any such specific lien appearing of
record at the time of the filing of the notice of the pendency
of the action, who is not made a party, is not affected by
such judgment.
§ 1579. "Where final judgment, confirming a sale, is
rendered, the costs of each party to the action, and the
expenses of the sale, including the officers' fees, must be
deducted from the proceeds of the sale, and each party's
costs must be paid to his attorney. But the court may, in
its discretion, direct that the costs and expenses of any
trial, reference, or other proceeding in the action, be paid
out of the share of any party in the proceeds, or may render
judgment against any party therefore. Where a proportion
of the proceeds is to be paid to, or invested for the benefit
of, any person, as prescribed in any provision of this article,
the amount thereof must be determined by the residue of
the entire proceeds, remaining after deducting the costs and
expenses chargeable against them.
§ 1580. The proceeds of a sale, after deducting there
from the costs and expenses chargeable against them, must
be awarded to the parties whose rights and interests have
been sold, in proportion thereto. The sum chargeable
upon any share, to satisfy a lien thereon, must be paid to
the creditor, or retained, sublet to 'he order of the court ;and the remainder, except as otherwise prescribed in this
article, must be paid, by the officer making the sale, to the
party owning the share, or his legal representatives, or into
court for his use.
§ 1581. [Am'd 1887.] Where a party entitled to receive
a portion of the proceeds is an infant, the court may direct
it to be invested in permanent securities, at interest, in the
name and for the benefit of the infant ; or it may, and on
due proof that such portion so paid into court has remained
uninvested in permanent securities for the space of three
months, shall direct the same to be paid to the general
guardinn of such infant, upon his giving an undertaking in
an amount, and with sureties satisfactory to the court, for
the faithful execution of his trust.
§ 1582. [Am'd 1889, 1891, amendment to take effect
September 1, 1891.] Where a person has been made a
defendant as an unknown person ; or where the name of a
defendant is unknown ; or where the summons has been
served upon a defendant without the state, or by publi
cation, and he has not appeared in the action ; the court
must direct his portion to be invested in permanent securi
ties, at interest, for his benefit, until claimed by him or his
legal representatives ; but after the lapse of twenty-five
years from the time of the payment into court, or to the
treasurer of any county, of any poitionof the proceeds of
the sale of real properly, for unknown heirs, [heretofore or
hereafter to be made] in any action of partition, without
any claim therefore having been made by [any] person en
titled thereto, and upon there being made and presented to
the court, at a special term thereof, proof, by petition or
otherwise, showing to the satisfaction of the court, that due
inquiry for such unknown heirs, [or their representatives,]
has been made [and that they cannot be found,] and that no
claim has been made for such portion of said proceeds by
any person entitled thereto, [proceedings shall there
upon be taken in said court, and an investigation had
therein as to the heirship, death or whereabouts of such
unknown heirs or their representatives, and the said court
shall, by an order made in the action, direct that a notice
entitled in the action and signed by the petitioner, or his
attorney, and directed to such unknown heirs or their
representatives be served upon them by the publication
thereof, the same to be published once in each week for
six successive weeks in a newspaper published in the
county where the action was brought, and in such other
newspapers as the couit may direct, ordering and requiring
such unknown heirs, or their representatives, and each of
them to be and appear in said court at a special term
thereof at a time and place to be specified in said order and
notice, aod at least six weeks from the date of the first
publication of such notice, to then and there establish their heirship and identity, and submit any proof, as to such
unknown heirs, or their representatives, they may desire,
and that in case of their default in so doing, that the said
proceeds will be distributed and paid over to the known
heirs of the ancestor from whom such unknown heirs
derived title thereto, and to their heirs and assigns, and
that they and each of them shall thereafter be forever
barred of and from all and every cause or causes
of action for such proceeds, or on account theieof, or
growing out of the distribution thereof, and of and from
all right, title, claim and interest in and to such proceeds,
and shall be deemed to have surrendered aH right, claim
and interest in and to such proceeds. The publication of
such notice as required by said order, is hereby made and
shall be deemed and taken for all purposes to be a due and
complete service upon each and every of such unknown
heirs, or their representatives, of due notice of the proceed
ings to distribute and pay out such proceeds, and shall be
conclusive upon each and all of them ; and proof of the
publication of such notice may be made by affidavit of tho
publisher of such paper or papers. At the time and place
specified in the said order and notice, such unknown
heirs, or their representatives, shall appear in court
in person or by attorney, and make proof establishing
their heirship and identity, and upon such proof being
made to the satisfaction of the court, the proceedings for
distribution shall be dismissed. And if such unknown
heirs, or their representatives, do not so appear in court, at
the time and place specified in such notice and order, to
establish their heirship and identity, they and each of them,
and every person claiming under or through them, shall
thereafter be forever barred, of and from all and every
cause or causes of action for such proceeds, or on account
thereof, or growing out of the distribution of such pro
ceeds, and of and from all right, title, claim and interest
in and to such proceeds, and shall be deemed to have sur
rendered all right claim and interest in and to such pro
ceeds. And upon proofs being made of such publication,
and showing to the satisfaction of the court that such un
known heirs, or their representatives, cannot be found or
are dead, the said court shall have power to decree accord
ingly, and to decree that the share or interest of such un
known heirs in such real property was vested, at the time
of such sale, in the known heirs of the ancestors from
whom such unknown heirs derived title thereto, and] to de
cree that the unclaimed portion of such proceeds was
vested at the time of such payment in [such] known heirs,
[and that such heirs, their heirs and assigns, are entitled
thereto, and not next of kin , distributees or representatives ;]
and [the said court] shall make an order in such
action, directing the payment to them, or their assigns, of
the respective shares, or portions of, or interest in such
proceeds to which they are entitled ; [and which order shall be entered in the office of the clerk of the county where
the original action was brought, and after having been so
entered for three months, shall be conclusive evidence of the
regularity of the proceedings upon 'which it is based, and
of all the facts set forth therein ;] and, upon serving upon the
county treasurer a certified copy of such order, the treasurer
shall so pay over and distribute [such proceeds,] after de
ducting his lawful commissions, and shall thereupon be
exempt from all liability on account thereof.
§ 1583. "Where a portion of the proceeds, representing
an undivided share or interest, is invested for the benefit of
a tenant for life, or for years, or of a widow, as prescribed
in the foregoing provisions of this article, the court must
cause it to be invested in permanent securities, at interest,
and the interest to be paid, from time to time as it accrues,
to the person for whose benefit it is invested, while his or
her right continues,
§ 1584. The court may, in its discretion, require any
person, before he receives his portion of the proceeds of the
sale, to give such security as it directs, to the people, or to
such parties or other persons as it prescribes, to refund the
same, or a portion thereof, with interest, if it thereafter
appears that he was not entitled thereto
§ 1585. A security taken under any provision of this
article, except as otherwise specially prescribed therein,
must be taken in the name and official title of the county
treasurer of the county in which the property sold is situa
ted. He, and his successors in office, must hold the same
for the use and benefit of the persons interested, subject to
the order of the court.
§ 1586. The court may, in its discretion, and upon such
terms and conditions as justice requires, make an order,
allowing a person, interested in a security specified in the
last section, to maintain an action thereupon in the name
of the county treasurer.
§ 1587. Where it appears that partition cannot be made
equal between the parties, according to their respective
rights, without prejudice to the rights or interests of some
of them, the final judgment may award compensation to
be made by one party to another for equality of partition.
But compensation cannot be so awarded against a party
who is unknown, or whose name is unknown. Nor can it
be awarded against an infant, unless it appears, that he has
personal property sufficient to pay it, and that his interests
will be promoted thereby.
§ 1588. If, upon the death of one of two or more
plaintifffs, or one of two or more defendants, in an action
for partition, the interest of the decedent in the property
passed to a person, not a party to the action, the latter may
be made defendant by the order of the court ; and a sup
plementary summons may be issued, to bring him in
accordingly.
§ 1589. Nothing containod in this article prevents the
court from adjusting, in the interlocutory or final judg
ment, or otherwise, as the case requires, the rights of one
or more of the parties, as against any other party or par
ties, by reason of the receipt, by the latter, of more than
his or their proper proportion of the rents or profits of a
share, or part of a share.
§ 1590. Where an infant, idiot, lunatic, or habitual
drunkard, holds real property, in joint tenancy or in common, the general guardian of the infant or the committee
of the idiot, lunatic, or habitual drunkard, may apply to
the supreme court, or to the county court of the county, or
t;> a superior city court of the city, wherein the real prop
erty is situated, for authority to agree to a partition of the
real property.
§H54,subd.\ § 1691. Such an application must be by a petition,
l, Consol. which must describe the real property proposed to be
partitioned ; must state the rights and interests of the
several owners thereof ; must specify the particular parti
tion proposed to be made ; and must be verified by affidavit.
The court may order notice of the application to be given
to such persons as it thinks proper.
§ 1598. [Am'd 1886.] If after due inquiry into the
merit* of the application by a reference or otherwise, the
court is of the opinion that the interests of the infant, or of
the idiot, lunatic, or habitual drunkard will be promoted
by the partition, it may make an order authorizing the
petitioner to agree to the partition proposed, and in the
name of the infant, or of the idiot, lunatic, or habitual
drunkard, to execute releases of his right and interest in
and to that part of the property which falls to the shares of
the other joint-tenants or tenants in common. The court
may, in its discretion, for the furtherance of the interests
of said infant, idiot, lunatic, or habitual drunkard, direct
partition to be so made as to set off to him or them his or
their share in common with any of the other owners, pro
vided the consent in writing thereto of such owners shall be
first obtained.
§ 1593. Releases so executed have the same validity
and effect, as if they were executed by the person in whose
behalf they are executed, and as if the infant was of full
age, or the idiot, lunatic, or habitual drunkard was of
sound mind, and competent to manage his affairs.
§ 1594. The people of the State may be made a party
defendant to an action for the partition of real property, in
the same manner as a private person. In such a case, the
summons must be served upon the Attorney-General, who
must appear in behalf of the people.
§ 1595. An exemplified copy of the judgment-roll, or
of the final judgment, in an action for partition, may be
recorded in the office for recording deeds in each county in
which any real property affected thereby is situated.
§ 1596. [Arn'd 1882.] An action for dower must be siHun.63*.
commenced by a widow within twenty years after the
death of her husband ; but if she is at the time of his death
either
1. Within the age of twenty-one years ; or
2. Insane ; or
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon
conviction of a criminal offense, for a term less than for
life;
The time of such a disability is not a part of the time
limited by this section. And if at any time before such
claim of dower has become barred by the above lapse of
twenty years, the owner or owners of the lands subject to
such dower, being in possession, shall have recognized
such claim of dower by any statement contained in a
writing under seal, subscribed and acknowledged in the
manner entitling a deed of real estate to be recorded, or if
by any judgment or decree of a court of record within the
same time and concerning the land in question, wherein
such owner or owners were parties, such right of dower
shall have been distinctly recognized as a subsisting claim
against said lands, the time after the death of her husband,
and previous to such acknowledgment in writing or such
recognition by judgment or decree, is not a part of the time
limited by this section.
g 1597. Where the property, in which dower is claimed, s n. T.
is actually occupied, the occupant thereof must be made Supp. 822,
defendant in the action. Where it is not so occupied, the
action must be brought against some person exercising acts
of ownership thereupon, or claiming title thereto, or an
interest therein, at the time of the commencement of the
action.
§ 1598. In either of the cases specified in the last sec
tion, any other person, claiming title to, or the right to the
possession of, the real property in which dower is claimed,
may be joined as defendant in the action.
§ 1599. In an action to recover dower, in a distinct jjj.T.
parcel of real property of which the plaintifff's husband died
Supp. 322.
seized, or in all the real property which he aliened by oneconveyance, all the persons in possession of, or claiming
title to, the property, or any part thereof, may be made defendants, although they possess or claim title to different
portions thereof in severalty.
31 Hun, 590.
g 1600. Where a widow recovers, in an action there
for, dower in property, of which her husband died seized,
she may also recover, in the same action, damages for with
holding her dower, to the amount of one third of the annual
value of the mesne profits of the property, with interest; to
be computed, where the action is against the heir, from her
husband's death, or, where it is against any other person,
from the time when she demanded her dower of the defend
ant ; and, in each case, to the time of the trial, or application
for judgment, as the case may be ; but not exceeding six
years in the whole. The damages shall not include anything
for the use of permanent improvements, made after the
death of the husband.
§ 1601. Where a widow recovers dower, in a case not
specified in the last section, she may also recover, in the
same action, damages for withholding her dower, to be
computed from the commencement of the action : but they
shall not include anything for the use of permanent im
provements, made since the property was aliened by her
husband. In all other respects, the same must be com
puted as prescribed in the last section.
§ 1602. The last two sections do not authorize the re
covery, against a defendant who is joined with others, of
damages for withholding dower, in any portion of the prop
erty not occupied or claimed by him.
§ 1603. Where a widow recovers dower in real property
aliened by the heir of her husband, she may recover, in a
separate action against him, her damages for withholding
her dower, from the time of the death of her husband to
the time of the alienation, not exceeding six years in the
whole. The sum recovered from him must be deducted
from the sum, which she would otherwise be entitled to
recover from the grantee ; and any sum recovered as dam
ages from the grantee, must be deducted from the sum,
which she would otherwise be entitled to recover from the
I
heir.
§ 1604. The acceptance, by a widow, of an assignment
of dower, in satisfaction of her claim upon the property in
question, bars an action for dower, and may be pleaded by
any defendant.
§ 1605. Where a widow, not having a right to dower,
recovers dower against an infant, by the default or collu
sion of his guardian, the infant shall not be prejudiced
thereby ; but when he comes of full age, he may bring an
action of ejectment against the widow, to recover the prop
erty so wrongfully awarded for dower, with damages from
the time when she entered into possession, although that is
more than six years before the commencement of the action.
£ 1606. The complaint, in an action for dower, must
describe the property, as prescribed in section one thousand
five hundred and eleven of this act ; and must set forth the
name of the plaintifff's husband.
§ 1607. If the defendant makes default in appearing or
pleading ; or if the right of the plaintifff to dower is not
disputed by the answer ; or if it appears, by the verdict,
report, or decision upon a trial, that the plaintifff is entitled
to dower in the real property described in the complaint, an
interlocutory judgment must be rendered ; which, except
as otherwise prescribed in this article, must direct that the
plaintifff's dower in the property, particularly describing it,
be admeasured by a referee, designated in the judgment, or
by three reputable and disinterested freeholders, designated
therein as commissioners for that purpose.
§ 1608. Each of the commissioners, or the referee, as
the case requires, must, before entering upon the execution
of his duties, subscribe and take an oath, before an officer
specified in section eight hundred and forty-two of this act,
to the effect, that he will faithfully, honestly, and im
partially discharge the trust reposed in him. The oath
must be filed with the clerk, before a commissioner or a
referee enters upon the execution of his duties. The court
may, at any time, remove the referee, or either of the com
missioners. If either of them dies, resigns, or neglects or
refuses to serve, or is removed, the court may, from time to
time, appoint another person in his place.
§ 1 - 09. The referee or the commissioners must execute
their duties in the following manner :
1. They must, if it is practicable, and, in their opinion,
for the best interests of all the parties concerned, admeasure
and lay off, as speedily as possible, as the dower of the plain
tiff, a distinct parcel, constituting the one third part of the
real property of which dower is to be admeasured, desig
nating the part so laid off by posts, stones, or other perma
nent monuments.
2. In making the admeasurement, they must take into
consideration any permanent improvements, made upon the
real property, after the death of the plaintifff's husband, or
after the alienation thereof by him ; and, if practicable,
those improvements must be awarded within the part not
laid off to the plaintifff ; or, if it is not practicable so to
award them, a deduction must be made from the part laid
off to the plaintifff, proportionate to the benefit, which she
will derive from so much of those improvements, as is in
cluded in the part laid off to her.
3. If it is not practicable, or if, in the opinion of the
referee or commissioners, it is not for the best interests of
all the parties concerned, to admeasure and lay off to the
plaintifff a distinct parcel of the property, as prescribed in
the foregoing subdivision of this section, they must report
that fact to the court.
4. They may employ a surveyor, with the necessary as
sistants, to aid in the admeasurement.
§ 1610. All the commissioners must meet together in
the performance of any of their duties ; but the acts of a
majority so met are valid. The referee, or the commis
sioners, or a majority of them, must make a full report of
their proceedings, specifying therein the manner in which
they have discharged their trust, with the items of their
charges, and a particular description of the portion ad
measured and laid off to the plaintifff ; or, if they report
that it is not practicable, or, in their opinion, it is not for
the best interests of all the parties concerned, to admeasure
and lay off a distinct parcel of the property, of which
dower is to be admeasured, they must state the reasons for
that opinion, and all the facts relating thereto. The report
must be acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like
manner as a deed to be recorded, and must be filed in the
office of the clerk.
§ 1611. Upon the application of any party to the action,
and upon good cause shown, the court may set aside the
report, and, if necessary, may appoint new commissioners,
or a new referee, who must proceed, as prescribed in this
title, with respect to those first appointed.
§ 1612. The fees and expenses of the commissioners, or
of the referee, including the expense of a survey, when it
is made, must be taxed under the direction of the court ;
and the amount thereof, must be paid by the plaintifff, and
allowed to her, upon the taxation of her costs.
18 Hun, 353.
§ 1613. Upon the report being confirmed by the court,
final judgment must be rendered. If the referee or com
missioners have admeasured and laid off to the plaintifff a
distinct parcel of the property, the judgment must award
to her, during her natural life, the possession of that par
cel, describing it, subject to the payment of all taxes, assess
ments, and other charges, accruing thereupon after she
takes possession. If the referee or the commissioners re
port, that it is not practicable, or that, in his or their opinion,
it is not for the best interests of all the parties concerned, so
to admeasure and lay off a distinct parcel of the property,
the final judgment must, direct, that a sum, fixed by the
court, and specified therein, equal to one-third of the rental
value of the real property, as ascertained by a reference or
otherwise, be paid to the plaintifff, annually or oftener, as
directed in the judgment, during her natural life, for her
dower in the property ; and that the sums, so to be paid, lie
and remain a charge upon the property, during her natural
life. The final judgment may also award damages for the
withholding of dower.
§ 1614. The plaintifff may, from time to time, maintain
an action against the owner, or a person who was the owner
of the property, to recover any instalment of the sum, so awarded to her for her dower, which became due during
his ownership, and remains unpaid. Or if an instalment
remains due and unpaid, she may maintain an action to
procure a sale of the property, and enforce the payment of
the instalments, due and to become due, out of the proceeds
of the sale. Such an action must be conducted, as if the
charge upon the real property was a mortgage to the same
effect. If, at any time, it is made to appear to the court,
that the rental value of the real property has materially in
creased or diminished, the court may, by an order, to be
made upon notice to all the persons interested, modify the
final judgment, by incr sing or diminishing the sum to be
paid to the plaintifff.
§ 1615. "Where a portion of the property is admeasured
and laid off to the plaintifff as her dower, a lien, which is
inferior to the plaintifff's right of dower, attaches, during
the life of the plaintifff, to the residue, or to the portion or
share of the residue which was subject to it, as if the por
tion laid off to the plaintifff had not been a part of the prop
erty.
§ 1616. An appeal from a final judgment, awarding to
the plaintifff possession of the part admeasured and laid off
to her, does not stay the execution thereof, unless the court,
or a judge thereof, grants an order directing such a stay.
Such an order shall not be granted, if an undertaking is
given on the part of the respondent, with one or more sure
ties, approved by the court, or a judge thereof, to the effect
that, if the judgment appealed from is reversed or modified,
and restitution is awarded, she will pay, to the person en
titled thereto, the value of the use and occupation of the
part so admeasured and laid off to her, or of the portion,
restitution of which is awarded, during the lime she holds
possession thereof, by virtue of the judgment.
§ 1617. In an action for dower, the plaintifff may, at any
time before an interlocutory judgment is rendered, by
reason of the defendant's default in appearing or pleading,
or, where an issue of fact is joined, at any time before the
commencement of the trial, file with the clerk, a consent to
accept a gross sum, in full satisfaction and discharge of her
right of dower in the real property described in the com
plaint. Such a consent must be in writing, and acknowl
edged or proved, and certified, in like manner as a deed to
be recorded. A copy thereof, with notice of the filing,
must be served upon each adverse party who has appeared,
or who appears after the filing.
§ 1618. At any time after a consent is filed, as pre
scribed in the last section, and before an interlocutory
judgment is rendered, any defendant may apply to the
court, upon notice, for an order granting him leave to pay
such a gross sum. Thereupon the court may, in its dis
cretion, and upon such terms as justice requires, ascertain
the value of the plaintifff's right of dower in the property. by a reference or otherwise, and make an order, directing
payment, by the applicant, of the sum so ascertained, with
in a time fixed by the order, not exceeding sixty days after
service of a copy thereof ; and directing the execution by
the plaintifff of a release of her right of dower, upon re
ceipt of the money. Obedience to the order may be en
forced, either by punishment for contempt, or by striking
out the pleading of the offending party, and rendering
judgment against him or her or in both modes.
§ 1619. Where the plaintifff's consent has been filed, as
prescribed in the last section but one, and she is entitled to
an interlocutory judgment in the action, the court must,
upon the application of either party, ascertain, by a refer
ence or otherwise, whether a distinct parcel of the property
can be admeasured or laid off to the plaintifff, as tenant in
dower, without material injury to the interests of the
parties. If it appears to the court, that a distinct parcel
cannot be so admeasured and laid off, the interlocutory
judgment must, except in the case specified in the next sec
tion, direct that the property be sold by the sheriff, or by
a referee designated therein ; and that, upon the confirma
tion of the sale, each party to the action, and every person
deriving title from, through, or under a party, after the
filing of the judgment-roll, or of a notice of the pendency
of the action, as prescribed in article ninth of this title, be
barred of and from any right, title, or interest in or to the
property sold.
§ 1620. In a case specified in section one thousand six
hundred and seventeen of this act, where the property, or a
part thereof, consists of one or more vacant or unimproved
lots, the plaintifff's consent may contain a stipulation to take
a distinct parcel out of those lots, in lieu of a gross sum.
In that case, the interlocutory judgment, instead of direct
ing a sale, may direct, if it appears to be just so to do, that
commissioners be appointed to admeasure and lay off to the
plaintifff a distinct parcel, out of the vacant or unimproved
lots ; and, if there is any other property, that it be sold,
and a gross sum be paid to her out of the proceeds thereof,
as prescribed in the next three sections. The plaintifff's title
to each distinct parcel, admeasured and laid off to her, as
prescribed in this section, is that of an estate of inheritance
in fee simple. In admeasuring and laying off the same,
the commissioners must consider quantity and quality rela
tively, according to the value of the plaintifff's right of
dower in the vacant or unimproved lots, out of which the
admeasurement is to be made ; which must be ascertained,
in proportion to the value of those lots, as prescribed, in
the next three sections, for fixing a gross sum to be paid to
her out of the proceeds of a sale.
§ 1621. Before an interlocutory judgment is rendered
for the sale of the property, the court must direct a refer
ence to ascertain whether any person, not a party, has a lien upon the property, or any part thereof. Except as
otherwise expressly prescribed in this article, the proceed
ings upon and subsequent to the reference must be the
same, as prescribed in article second of this title, where a
reference is made as prescribed in section one thousand five
hundred and sixty-one of this act.
§ 1622. Where the interlocutory judgment directs a
sale, if the right of dower of the plaintifff is inferior to any
other lien upon the property, the judgment may, in the
discretion of the court, direct that the property be sold
either subject to the lien, or discharged from the lien; and,
in the latter-case, that the officer making the sale pay the
amount of the lien, out of the proceeds of the sale.
§ 1623. Immediately after completing the sale, and
executing the proper conveyance to the purchaser, the
officer making the sale must make and file with the clerk a
report thereof, showing the name of the purchaser, and
the purchase price paid by him, or, if the proptity was
sold in parcels, the name of each purchaser, and the price
and a description of the parcel sold to him ; the sums
which the officer has paid out of the proceeds of the sale,
pursuant to the interlocutory judgment ; the purpose for
which each payment was made ; the amount and items of
his fees and expenses ; and the net amount of the proceeds,
after deducting the payments.
§ 1624. Upon confirming the sale, the court must ascer
tain, by a reference or otherwise, the rights and interests of
each of the parties in and to the proceeds of the sale, and
also 'what gross sum of money is equal to the value of the
plaintifff's dower in the net proceeds of the sale, calculated
upon the principles applicable to life annuities. The court
must thereupon render final judgment, confirming the sale,
and directing that the gross sum so ascertained be paid to
the plaintifff, in full satisfaction of her right of dower ; and
that the remainder of the proceeds of the sale be distributed
among the persons entitled thereto.
§ 1625. The provisions of article second of this title,
relating to a sale made as prescribed in that article, and to
the distribution, investment, and care of the proceeds,
apply, as far as they are applicable, to a sale made as pre
scribed in this article, and to the distribution of the pro
ceeds of a sale, as prescribed in the last section.
§ 1626. In an action to foreclose a mortgage upon real
property, if the plaintifff becomes entitled to final judgment,
it must direct the sale of the property mortgaged, or of
such part thereof as is sufficient to discharge the mortgage
debt, the expenses of the sale, and the costs of the action.
§ 1627. Any person, who is liable to the plaintifff for
the payment of the debt secured by the mortgage, may be
made a defendant in the action ; and if he has appeared, or
has been personally served with the summons, the final
judgment may award payment by him of the residue of
the debt remaining unsatisfied, after a sale of the mort
gaged property, and the application of the proceeds, pur
suant to the directions contained therein.
§ 1628. While an action to foreclose a mortgage upon
real property is pending, or after final judgment for the
plaintifff therein, no other action shall be commenced or
maintained, to recover any part of the mortgage debt, with
out leave of the court in which the former action was
brought.
§ 1629. The complaint, in an action to foreclose a mort
gage upon real property, must state, whether any other
action has been brought to recover any part of the mortgage
debt, and, if so, whether any part thereof has been col
lected.
| 1630. Where final judgment for the plaintifff has l>een
rendered, in an action to recover any part of the mortgage
debt, an action shall not be commenced or maintained to
foreclose the mortgage, unless an execution against the
property of the defendant has been issued, upon the judg
ment, to the sheriff of the county where he resides, if he
resides within the State, or, if he resides without the State,
to the sheriff of the county where the judgment-roll is
filed ; and has been returned wholly or partly unsatisfied.
§ 1631. The plaintiffiE must, at least twenty days before
a final judgment directing a sale is rendered, file, in the
clerk's office of each county where the mortgaged property
is situated, a notice of the pendency of the actioL , as pre
scribed in section one thousand six hundred and seventy of
this act ; which must specify, in addition to the particulars
required by that section, the date of the mortgage, the
parties thereto, and the time and place of recording it.
§ 1632. A conveyance upon a sale, made pursuant to a
final judgment, in an action to foreclose a mortgage upon
real property, vests in the purchaser the same estate, only, that would have vested in the mortgagee, if (he equity of
redemption had been foreclosed. Such a conveyance is as
valid, as if it was executed by the mortgagor and mort
gagee, and is an entire bar against each of them, and against
each parly to the action who was duly summoned, and every
person claiming from, through, or under, a party, by title
accruing after the filing of the notice of the pendency of the
action, as prescribed in the last section.
§ 1633. If there is any surplus of the proceeds of the
sale, after paying the expenses of the sale, and satisfying
the mortgage debt and the costs of the action, it must be
paid into court, for the use of the person or persons entitled
thereto. If any part of the surplus remains in court for the
period of three months, the court must, if no application
has been made therefore, and may, if an application therefore
is pending, direct ittobe invested at interest, for the benefit
of the person or persons entitled thereto, to be paid upon
the direction of the court.
§ 1634. Where an action is brought to foreclose a mort
gage upon real property, upon which a portion of the
principal or interest is due, and another portion of either is
to become due, the complaint must be dismissed without
costs against the plaintifff, upon the defendant paying into
court, at any time before a final judgment directing a sale
is rendered, the sum due, and the plaintifff's costs.
§ 1635. In a case specified in the last section, if, after a
final judgment directing a sale is rendered, but before the sale
is made, the defendant pays into court the amount due for
principal and interest, and the costs of the action, together
with the expenses of the proceedings to sell, if any, all
proceedings upon the judgment must be stayed ; but, upon
a subsequent default in the payment of principal or interest,
the court may ma'kc an order, directing the enforcement of
the judgment, for the purpose of collecting the sum then
due.
§ 1636. Where the mortgage debt is not all due, and
the mortgaged property is so circumstanced, that it can be
sold in parcels without injury to the interests of the parties,
the final judgment must direct, that no more of the property
be sold, in the first place, than is sufficient to satisfy the
sum then due, with the costs of the action and expenses of
the sale ; and that, upon a subsequent default in the pay
ment of principal or interest, the plaintifff may apply for an
order, directing the sale of the residue, or of so much
thereof as is necessary to satisfy the amount then due, with
the costs of the application and the expenses of the sale.
The plaintifff may apply for and obtain such an order, as
often as a default happens.
§ 1637. If, in a case specified in the last three sections,
it appears that the mortgaged property is so circumstanced,
that a sale of the whole will be most beneficial to the parties, the final judgment must direct, that the whole
property be sold ; that the proceeds of the sale, after de
ducting the costs of the action, and the expenses of the sale,
be either applied to the satisfaction of the whole sum secured
by the mortgage, with such a rebate of interest, as justice
requires ; or be fi,rst applied to the payment of the sum
due, and the balance, or so much thereof as is necessary, be
invested at interest, for the benefit of the plaintifff, to be
paid to him from time to time, as any part of the principal
or interest becomes due.
§ 1638. (Am'd 1891, amendment to take effect September 1, 1891.]
Where a person has been, or he and those whose estate he bag, ha™
been for one year in possession of real property, or of any undi
vided interest therein, claiming it in fee. or for life, or for a term of
years not less than ten. he may maintain an action against any other
person to compel the determination of any claim adverse to that of the
plaintifff which the defendant makes to any estate in that property in
fee, or Tor life, or for a term of years not less than ten. in possession,
reversion or remainder, or to any interest in lhat property, including
any claim in the nature of an easement therein, whether appurtenant
to any other estate or lands or not, and also including any lien or in
cumbrance upon said property, of the amount or value of not less than
two hundred and fifty dollars. But this section does not apply to a
claim for dower.
$ 163-9. [Am'd 1891, amendment to take effect September 1, 1891.]
The complaint in such an action must set forth facts showing :
1. The plaintifff's right to the real property ; whether his estate
therein is in fee. or for life, or forutcim of years not less than ten ;
and whether he holds it as heir, devisee or purchaser, with the source
from or means by which his title immediately accrued to him.
2. That the property, at tho commencement of the action was, and,
for the one year next preceding, has been in his possession, or in the
possession of himself and those from whom he derives his title, either
as sole tenant, or as joint tenant, or tenant in common with others.
3. That the defendant unjustly claims an estate or interest or ease,
ment therein, or a lien or encumbrance thereupon of the character
specified in the last section.
The complaint must describe the property as prescribed In section
fifteen hundred and eleven of this act. The demand for judgment
may be to the effect thai the defendant and every person claiming
under him be barred from all claim to an estate in the property de
scribed in the complaint, or from all claim to an interest or easement
therein, or a lien or encumbrance thereupon, of the character specified
opn-szid that ;he complaint l»n ill. i.il»». .1, >n nn;
T^-m-T- -.7 »lii he wvijd be entitled In an action IiioiikIiI liy lilm In
rsas&^ut Jb xi ptoperry. or to enforce In uuy iiiiinmi 1I111
§ :r f^-iaf-L: vhere.n. or, the lion or lucmiilirnuei' llientip 11
iic tae»: ;r he may combine any two nr mom of ««nl ileuininla
i 1^42. ~A»"d 1*51. amendment to take effect rtcpli <niln 1 I, Inui |
Wt3»aiis«i»<-ff»ft >? joined in an action hroiiitlit nn niiKi iiIhmI In Hi la
irtjri*. mj*s* liff defendant merely demandx Mini lli» 1 inuiiliiliil lm
asms«e»i.if the deff ndant claims an ft (ate In xulil iimpi'iii llieanli u
(ro^rtt jr-<*-es5in(r*- irjdudrns the trial, judgment. 11 ml tut'cnll
1 lliu
FBK at if n wi» aa action of ejectment, except nn nllu iwlan e«|ni««lr
^rsrriVrz in this titie : if the defendant claims nu Itilrn wl hi i<ii«< inriil
in. or a htm or mcambrance np^in, paid properly, Him aulianijui'iil pin
> are the same as if it was an action linnnilil, h» thn ihr Inm in
f«ih ;*h or enforce the said interest. ciiMcmrnl, Urn nr Inriiinlui
,
:al the c«rt may award any approprlnlc relief meept «« iiiIihih ,1
i-ipreseiy prescribed in this title.
§ 1643. Where the deferulttnt clallim lliu |irii|tt<ilv III
qoestioo, or any part thereof, by virluo nf nil cnliil* III rnmainder or reversion, he need not. osinlillnli it tlplil In llm
immediate possession thereof; lint wlii'in tlitt vnillrl, fit
port, or- decision finds tliat ho lian hip It nit niliiln, II, iimai
fpecifv" the time when, or the. conlinirriiry ii|iuii wlihlt In*
will be entitled to possession ; anil llmtl Jililp.tni'lit til llml
effect must be rendered accordingly, wlllioiil. tlitiniliti'M, In
such a case, an execution for tho < f< ■ 1 1 v 1 • 1 v of Hi" |» itmcnalun
of the property may be issued upon tint Juiluini'iil | hut
only by the special order of tho court, innilti ii|n>n nn niiiill
cationby the defendant, or a perrtoit clitlinltiK unilrr lilin,
and satisfactory proof that tho tlmn Iiiim iinlvcil wIipii, tif
the contingency has happentid tipon which, tint it|i|illi'«nt U
entitled to possession by the tonus of tint Jiiil",mmil.
§ 1644. Where a final judgment, In fnvnr of tint de
fendant, determines that ho is entitled to thn linnieill.tln
possession of the property, it must nwtinl li i til poMMeie-Inn
accordingly.
The final judgment must alno awari I In him
his damages for the withholding of tho property, 11s In
an action of ejectment.
% 1845. [Am'd 1891, amendment to tnko effect, Hoplcnilicr I, tHIII.|
Pinal judgment for the plaintifff must be to the otTecl thin, tin* defend,
ant, and overy person claiming under him, by title accruing after the
Siing of tho judgment-roll, or of the notice of tho pendency of the
action, as prescribed in article ninth of this title, be forever hnrreil from
all claim to any estate of inheritance, or for life, or for 11 term of year*
not less than ten, in the property ; or such judgment mut-l. hu that ilia
de.'endam and every person claiming i.n,ler hint, as nl.ove stnteil, 1.0
forever barred from all ctajf• interest or easement lu, or Ilea of
encumbrance upon, the said property, of any kind ar nature whatso
ever, or of any particular interest, easement, hen or encumbrance speci
fied in said judgment ; and the court may direct any instrument pur
porting to create any such interest, easement, hen, or encumbrance ro
be delivered up or to be canceled of record ; or two or more of said
formy of judgment may be awarded in the same action. If such a judg
ment is taken upon the defendant's default in appearing or pleading, it
Bhall not award cotts to either party, unless it be taken upon a default
in answering, after the decision of a demurrer to the complaint.
§ 1 646. [AnTd 1F91, amendment to take effect September 1, 1891.]
A final judgment in favor of eiiher party, in an action brought as pre
scribed in this article, is conclusive against the other party, as to the
title established in the action ; and also against every person claiming
from, through, or under that party, by title accruing after the filing or
the judgment-roll, or of the notice of the pendency of the action, as pre
scribed in article ninth of this title. A new trial of said action after
judgment shall not be grunted as a matter of right, but the court may,
in its discretion in the interest of justice, grant a new trial upon an
application made by any party within one year after said judgment.
But where a defendant is an infant, an idiot, a lunatic, an habitual
drunkard, or imprisoned on a criminal charge or in execution upon
conviction of a criminal offense for a term lees than life, the said de
fendant shall have the right, within one year after his disability is
terminated, to apply for and obtain a new trial of said action, and the
lepresentatives of such a de'endant shall have the same right within
one year after the death of said defendant, if such death occurs while
the disability continues. Upon any new trial of an action, brought
• C1t Pkl a8 PrPSCrihed in this article, the record of the evidence given upon the
207t *
previous trial, may be again offered to the court by either party, and
may be received in evidence, in case the same evidence cannot be
again procured. The courts may make such rules and orders as to
preserving the record of the evidence given in such actions and per
petuating the proofs produced therein, either with or without the
awarding of any other relief to the party whose proofs are so perpetu
al d, as shall be necessary or proper,,and may embrace such directions
in the judgment.
§ 1647. [Am'd 1891, amendment to take effect September 1, 1891.]
A person claiming, as owner, an estate in fee, for life, or for years, in
real property, may maintain an action against a woman, who 'claims to
have a right of dower in the whole or a part of the property, to compel
the determination of her claim . But such an action cannot be com
menced until after the expiration of four months after the death of de
fendant's husband. If the defendant is under any of the disabilities
specified in the last section, the provisions of that section relating to
new trials and to perpetuating proofs, shall apply to her case.
§ 1 648. IQ an action brought as specified in the last section, if the
complaint admits the defendant's right of dower in the property
described therein, or any part thereof, it must demand judgment that
her dower be admeasured. In that case, if the defendant does not. by
her answer, set forth facts, showing that the is entitled to a greater
right of dower, or another estate or interest in the property, than in so
admitted, and demand judgment then for, as if she v/ns the plaintifff ;n
an action for dower, the court must rend* r an interlocutory judgment,
directing her dower to be dmeasured with or without damages for its
detention, as in an action for dower. The subsequent proceedings are
the same, as if the defendant had, as plaintifff, recovered an inter1 cuttv iudjrment in an action for dower.
§ 164V. Where the plaintifff insists, in his complaint,
that the defendant has not a right of dower in the property,
Le must demand judgment that she be forever barred from
such a claim. In that case, or where the plaintifff admits &
right of dower in the defendant, and the defendant in her
answer demands judgment for a greater right of dower, or
another estate or interest in the property, than is so ad
mitted, the provisions of this article, relating to an action
to compel the determination of an adverse claim in fee, or
for life, or for a term of years not less than ten, apply to all proceed
ings subsequent to the answer.
5 1650. (Am'd 1891, amendment totake effect September 1. 1891.]
An action mav be main ained, as prescribed in thin article, by or against
a corporation, or by or against an unincorporated association, as if it wu
a natural person, or Buch an action may be maintained by t? fiminat
the receiver or other successor of any such corporation o: cwjciaiiun*
§ 1651. An action for waste lies against a tenant by the
• curtesy, in dower, for life, or for years, or the assignee of
such a tenant, who, during his estate or term, commits
waste upon the real property held by him, without a special
and lawful written license so to do ; or against such a
tenant, who lets or grants his estate, and, still retaining
possession thereof, commits waste without a like license.
§ 1652. An heir or devisee may maintain an action for
waste, committed in the time of his ancestor or testator, as
well as in his own time. The grantor of a reversion may
maintain an action for waste, committed before he aliened
the same.
§ 1653. Such an action may also be maintained against
a guardian by his ward, either before or after the termina
tion of the guardianship, for waste, committed upon the
real property of the ward, during the guardianship.
§ 1654. Where real property is sold by virtue of an
execution, the person, to whom a conveyance is executed
pursuant to the sale, may maintain an action for waste, com
mitted thereon after the sale, against the person, who was
then in possession of the property.
§ 1655. If the plaintifff recovers in an action for waste,
other than an action brought as prescribed in the next sec
tion, the final judgment must award to him treble damages.
Where the action is brought by the person next entitled to
the reversion, and it appears, in like manner, that the in
jury to the estate in reversion is equal to the value of the
tenant's estate or unexpired term, or that it was done
maliciously, the final judgment must also award to the
plaintifff the forfeiture of the defendant's estate, and the
possession of the place wasted.
§ 1656. An action for waste may also be maintained, by
a joint tenant or tenant in common, against his co-tenant,
who commits waste upon the real property heM in joint
tenancy or in common. If the plaintifff recovers therein, he
is entitled, at his election, either to a final judgment for
treble damages, as specified in the last section, or to have
partition of the property, as prescribed in the next two
sections.
§ 1657. Where the plaintifff elects to have partition, as
prescribed in the last section, if the pleadings, verdict, re
port, or decision, do not determine the rights and interests
of the several parties in the property so held in joint tenancy
or in common, the court must ascertain them, by a refer
ence or otherwise. If it appears that there are persons, not
parties to the action, who must have been made parties to
an action for the partition of the property, they must be
brought in by a supplemental summons, and, if necessary,
supplemental pleadings must be made. When the rights
and interests of all the parties are ascertained, an interlocu
tory judgment for the partition or sale of the property must
be rendered, and the subsequent proceedings thereon must
be the same, as in an action for the partition of the property,
except as otherwise prescribed in the next section.
§ 1658. The plaintifff may elect to take final judgment
for the single damages awarded to him, or that, in making
the partition, or in dividing the proceeds of a sale, so much
of the share of the defendant in the real property, or the
proceeds thereof, as will be sufficient to compensate the
plaintifff for his single damages, and the costs of the action,
other than the expenses of making the partition or sale, be
laid off or paid, as the case may be, to the plaintifff. The
residue of the property or proceeds, not laid off or dis
tributed to the plaintifff or the defendant, must be laid oil
or paid to the persons entitled thereto, according to their
respective rights and interests.
§ 1659. In an action for waste, it is not necessary, either
upon the execution of a writ of inquiry, or upon the trial
of an issue of fact, that the jury, the judge, or the referee,
should view the property. Where the trial is by a referee,
or by the court without a jury, the referee or the judge
may, in his discretion, view the property, and direct the
attorneys for the parties to attend accordingly. In any
other case, the court may, in its discretion, by order, direct
a view by the jury.
- § 1664. A person in possession of real property, aa
guardian or trustee for an infant, or having mi estate deter
minable upon one or more lives, who holds over ami continues in possession, after the determination of liis tniNt or
particular estate, without the express consent of the person
then immediately entitled, is a trespasser. An action limy
be maintained against him, or his executor or administra
tor, by the person so entitled, or his executor or adminis
trator, to recover the full value of the prollts, received
during the wrongful occupation.
§ 1665. A person, seized of an estate in remainder or « n. Y.
reversion, may maintain an action founded upon an injury Hupp. (isn.
done to the inheritance, notwithstanding any intervening
estate for life or for years.
§ 1666. A joint tenant or a tenant in common (if real doIIuii, KM)
property, or his executor or administrator, may maintain
an action to recover his just proportion ajzainst his cotenant, who has received more than his own just pro|>ortion, or against his executor or administrator.
§ 1667 If any person cuts down or curries off any
wood, underwood, tree, or timber, or girdles or otherwise
despoils atree on the land of another, without the owner's
leave ; or on the common, or other land, of a city, village,
or town, without having right or privilege in those lands,
or license from the proper officer ; an action may he main
tained against him, by the owner, or the city, village, or
town, as the case may be.
§ 1668. In an action brought as prescribed in tho last
section, the plaintifff may state in his complaint the amount
of his damages, and demand judgment for treble the sum
so stated. Thereupon, if the inquisition, or, where issues
of fact are tried, the verdict, report, or decisiou, awards him any damages, he is entitled to judgment for treble the
sum so awarded, except that in either of the following
cases, judgment must be rendered for single damages only :
1. Where the verdict, report, or decision finds affirma
tively that the injury, for which the action was brought,
was casual and involuntary ; or that the defendant, when
he committed the injury, had probable cause to believe
that the land was his own.
i
2. Where the defendant has pleaded, and the verdict,
report, or decision finds affirmatively, that the injury, for
which the action was brought, was committed by taking
timber, for the purpose of making or repairing a public
road, or a public bridge ; or by taking any wood, under
wood, or tree, for a like purpose, by authority of a com
missioner or overseer of highways.
§ 1669. If a person is disseized, ejected, or put out of
real property, in a forcible manner ; or, after he has been
put out, is held and kept out, by force, or by putting him
in fear of personal violence, he, is entitled to recover treble
damages, in an action therefore against the wrong-doer
§ 1670. In an action brought to recover a judgment
affecting the title to, or the possession, use, or enjoyment
of, real property, the plaintifff may, when he files his com
plaint, or at any time afterwards before final judgment, file,
in the clerk's office of each county where the property is
situated, a notice of the pendency of the*action, stating the
names of the parties, and the object of the action, and
containing a brief description of the property in that county,
affected thereby. Such a notice may be filed with the complaint, before the service of the summons ; but, in that case,
personal service of the summons must be maile upon a de
fendant, within sixty days after the filing, or else, l>efore
the expiration of the same time, publication of the summons
must be commenced, or service thereof must be made with
out the State, pursuant to an order obtained therefore, as
prescribed in chapter fifth of this act.
§ 1671. Where a notice of the pendency of an action
may be filed, as prescribed in the last section, the
pendency of the action is constructive notice, from the
time of so filing the notice only, to a purchaser or incum
brancer of the property affected thereby, from or against a
defendant, with respect to whom the notice is directed to
be indexed, as prescribed in the next section. A person,
whose conveyance or encumbrance is subsequently ex
ecuted, or subsequently recorded, is bound by all proceed
ings taken in the action, after the filing of the notice, tothe same extent as if he was a parly to the action.
§ 1672. Each county clerk, with whom such a notice is
filed, must immediately record it, in a book kept in his
office for that purpose, and index it to the name of each
defendant, specified in a direction, appended at the foot of
the nolice, and subscribed by the attorney for the plaintifff.
The expense of procuring a new book, when necessary,
must be paid out of the county treasury, as other county
charges.
§ 1673. Where a defendant sets up in his answer a
counterclaim, upon which he demands an affirmative judgment, affecting the title to, or the possession, use, or enjoy
ment of, real property, he may, at the time ofi filing his
answer, or at any time afterwards before final judgment,
file a like notice. The last three sections apply to such a
notice. For the purpose of such an application, the de
fendant filing such a notice is regarded as a plaintifff, and
the plaintifff is regarded as a defendant.
§ 1674. After the action is settled, discontinued, or
abated, or final judgment is rendered therein against the
party filing the notice, and the time to appeal therefrom has
expired, or if a plaintifff filing the nolice unreasonably
neglects to proceed in the action, the court may, in its discretion, upon the application of any person aggrieved, and
upon such notice as may be directed or approved by it,
direct that a notice of the pendency of an action, filed as
prescribed in the last four sections, be cancel led of record
by a particular clerk, or by all the clerks, with whom it is
filed and recorded. The cancellation must be made by a
note to that effect, on the margin of the record, referring
to the order. Unless the order is entered in the same clerk's
office, a certified copy thereof must be filed therein, before
the notice is cancelled.
§ 1675. Where a judgment, in an action specified in this
title, allots to any person a distinct parcel of real property,
or contains a direction for the sale of real property, or con.
firms such allotment or sale, it may also, except in a case,
■where it is expressly prescribed in this act that the judg
ment may be enforced by execution, direct the delivery of
the possession of the property to the person entitled thereto.
If a party, or his representative or successor, who is bound
by the judgment, withholds possession from the person thus
declared to be entitled thereto, the court, besides punishing
the disobedience as a contempt, may, in ts discretion, by
order, require the sheriff to put that person into possession.
Such an order must be executed, as if it was an execution
for the delivery of the possession of the property.
§ 1676. Where a judgment, rendered in an action for
partition, for dower, or to foreclose a mortgage upon real
property, directs a sale of the real property, the officer
making the sale must, out of the proceeds, unless the judg
ment otherwise directs, pay all taxes, assessments, and
water rates, which are liens upon the property sold, and
redeem the property sold from any sales for unpaid taxes,
assessments, or water rates, which have not apparently
become absolute. The sums, necessary to make those
payments and redemptions, are deemed expenses of the
sale, within the meaning of that expression, as used in any
provision of article second, third, or fourth of this title.
§ 1677. Where real property, sold by virtue of a judg
ment, rendered in an action specified in the last section, is
situated in a county, other than that in which the judgment
Is entered, the judgment must be also entered in the office
of the clerk of the county wherein the property is situated,
before the purchaser can be required to pay the purchasemoney, or to accept a deed. The clerk of the latter county
must enter it in the judgment book kept by him, upon filing
with him a copy thereof, certified by the clerk with whom
It is entered.
§ 1678. [Am'd 1881.] A sale made in pursuance of any
provision of this title must be at public auction to the highest bidder. Notice of such sale must be given by the officer
making it, as prescribed in section fourteen hundred and
thirty-four of this act for the sale by a sheriff of real properiy> by virtue of an execution, unless the property is situatet^ wn0"y or partly in a city in which a daily newspaper
is published, and, in that case, by publishing notice of the
sale at least twice in each week for three successive weeki
immediately preceding the sale in one, or, in the city of
New York or the city of Brooklyn, in two such papers.
Notice of the postponement of the sale must be published
in the paper or papers wherein the notice of sale was pub
lished. The terms of the sale must bo made known at the
sale, and if the property, or any part thereof, is to be sold
subject to the right of dower, charge or lien, that fact must
be declared at the time of the sale. If the property con
sists of two or more distinct buildings farms or lots they shall be sold separately, unless otherwise ordered by the
court ; and provided further that where two or more build
ings are situated on the same city lot they may be sold to
gether.
Sales heretofore made, which would be lawful according
to the terms of this act, are, by the act, declared valid.
§ 1679. A commissioner, or other officer making a sale,
as prescribed in this title, or a guardian of an infant party
to the action, shall not, nor shall any person, for bis benefit,
directly or indirectly, purchase, or be interested in the pur
chase of, any of the property sold ; except that a guardian
may, where he is lawfully authorized so to do, purchase for
the benefit or in behalf of his ward. The violation of this
section is a misdemeanor ; and a purchase, made contrary to
this section, is void.
§ 1680. Where a tenant for life, or for a term of years,
suffers judgment to be taken against him, by consent or by
default, in an action of ejectment, or an action for dower,
the heir, or person owning the reversion or remainder,
may, after the determination of the particular estate, main
tain an action of ejectment to recover the property.
§ 1681, If, during the pendency of an action specified 1g£;'x'jte
in this title, the defendant commits waste upon, or does any
e 370;
other damage to, the property in controversy, the court, or
a judge thereof, may, upon the application of the plaintifff,
anddueproof of the facts by affidavit, grant, without notice
or security, an order, restraining him from the commission of
any further waste upon or damage to the property. Dis
obedience to such an order may be punished, as a contempt
of the court. This section dots not affect the plaintifff's
right to a permanent or a temporary injunction in such an
action.
§ 1682. If the court, in which an action relating to
real property is pending, is satisfied that a survey of any of
the property, in the possession of either party, or of a
boundary line between the parties, or between the property
of either of them, and of another person, is necessary or ex
pedient, to enable either party to prepare a pleading, or pre
pare for trial, or for any other proceeding in the action, it
may, upon the application of either party, upon notice to
the party in possession, make an order, granting to the ap
plicant leave to enter upon that party's property, to make
such -a. survey.
§ 1683. An order, made as prescribed in the last sec
tion, must specify, by a description as definite as may be,
the property or boundary line to be surveyed, and the real
property of the adverse party, upon which it is necessary
to enter for that purpose. A copy thereof must be served
on the owner or occupant of that property, before entry
thereupon.
§ 1 684. After serving a copy of the order, as prescribed
in the last section, the party obtaining it, his necessary surveyors, servants, and agents, may enter, for the purpose of
making the survey, upon the real property described in the
order, and may there make the survey ; but each person so
entering is responsible for any unnecessary injury done by
him; and the party procuring the order is responsible for
such an injury, done by any person so entering.
§ 1685. If the defendant, in an action of ejectment or
an action for dower, aliens the real property in question,
after the filing of a notice, as specified in section one thou
sand six hundred and seventy of this act, and an execution
against him for the plaintifff's damages is returned wholly or
partly unsatisfied, an action may be maintained by the
plaintifff against any person, who has been in possession of
the property, under the defendant's conveyance, to recover
the unsatisfied portion of the damages, for a time not ex
ceeding that, during which he possessed the property.
17 Abb. N.
§ 1686. Any action specified in this title may be mainC. 485.
tained by or against an infant in his own name ; and article
fourth of title second of chapter fifth of this act applies to
such an action, except as otherwise prescribed in sections
one thousand live hundred and thirty-five and one thousand
five hundred and thirty-six of this act.
§ 1687. Nothing contained in this title is to be con
strued, as to prevent the plaintifff from uniting in the same
complaint two or more causes of action, in any case speci
fied in section four hundred and eighty four of this act.
§ 1688. A special proceeding to recover real property
cannot be taken, except in a case specially prescribed by
law.
§ 1689. Nothing in .this title is to be so construed as to
prevent the plaintifff from uniting in llie fame complaint
two or more causes of action, in any case specified in sec
tion four hundred and eighty-four of this act.
§ 1690. An action to recover a chattel cannot be main- 22 Week,
tained, in either of the following cases :
Dig. 109.
1. Where the chattel was taken by virtue of a warrant,
against the plaintifff, for the collection of a tax, assessment,
or fine, issued in pursuance of a statute of the State, or of
the United Slates ; unless the taking was, or the detention
is, unlawful, as specified in seel ion one thousand six hun
dred and ninety-live of this act.
2. Where it was seized by virtue of an execution, or a
warrant of attachment, against the property of the plain
tiff ; unless it was legally exempt from such seizure, or is
unlawfully detained, as specified in section one thousand
six hundred and ninety-five of this act.
3. Where it was seized by virtue of an execution, or a
■warrant of attachment, against the property of a person
other than the plaintifff; and, at, the time of the seizure, the
plaintifff had not the right to reduce it into his possession.
§ 1691. Where a chattel is replevied, in an action to 123N.Y.1S2.
recover the same, and a final judgment awarding the pos
session thereof to the defendant is rendered, a subsequent
action to recover the same chattel cannot be maintained by
the plaintifff, for the same cause of action. But the judg
ment does not affect his right to maintain an action to recover damages, for taking or detaining the same or any
other chattel, unless it was rendered against him upon the
merits.
§ 1692. An action to recover a chattel, the title to which
has been transferred to the plaintifff, since the wrongful
taking, or during the wrongful detention thereof, with or
without the damages sustained by the taking, ■withholding,
or detention, may be maintained in any case, where, except
for the transfer, such an action might be maintained, by
the person from or through whom the plaintifff derives title;
but not otherwise.
§ 1693. Where a chattel is replevied before the service
of the summons, as prescribed in this article, the seizure
thereof by the sheriff is regarded as equivalent to the
granting of a provisional remedy, for the purpose of giving
jurisdiction to the court, and enabling it to control the sub
sequent proceedings in the action ; and as equivalent to the
commencement of the action, for the purpose of determin
ing, whether the plaintifff is entitled to maintain the action,
or the defendant is liable thereto.
§ 1694. The plaintifff may, when the summons is issued,
. or at any time afterwards, and before the service of a copy of
the defendant's answer, or where judgment is taken by de
fault, for want of an appearance or pleading, before the entry
of the final judgment, cause the chat! el, to recover which the
action is brought, to be replevied by the sheriff of the county
where it is found. For that purpose, he must deliver to the
sheriff an affidavit and a written undertaking, as prescribed
in the following sections of this ariicle, with a written
requisition, indorsed upon or annexed to the affidavit, and
subscribed by his attorney, to the effect, that the sheriff is
required to replevy the chattel described therein. The
requisition may be directed to the sheriff of a particular
county, or, generally, to the sheriff of any county where
the chattel i3 found. It is deemed the mandate of the court.
§ 1695. The affidavit, to be delivered to the sheriff, as
prescribed in the last section, must particularly describe the
chattel to be replevied ; and must contain the following
allegations :
1. That the plaintifff is the owner of the chattel, or is
entitled to the possession thereof, by virtue of a special
property therein ; the facts with respect to which must be
set forth.
2. That it is wrongfully detained by the defendant.
3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according
to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the person
making the affidavit.
4. That it has not been taken by virtue of a warrant,
against the plaintifff, for the collection of a tax, assessment,
or fine, issued in pursuance of a statute of the State, or of
the United States ; or, if it has been taken under color of
such a warrant, either that the taking was unlawful, by reason of defects in the process, or other cram specified,
or that the detention is unlawful by reason of facts specified
which have subsequently occurred.
5. That it has not been seized by virtue of an mention
or warrant of attachment, against the property of the plain
tiff, or of any person from or through whom the plaintifff
has derived title to the chattel, since the seizure theieof ;
or, if it has been so seized, that it was exempt from the
seizure, by reason of facts specified, or that its detention is
unlawful, by reason of facts specified which have subse
quently occurred.
6. Its actual value.
§ 1696. But where the affidavit is made after the service
of the summons, the allegations, required to be inserted
therein by subdivisions first and second of the last section,
must be to the effect, that the plaintifff, at the time of the
commencement of the action, was the owner of the chattel,
or was entitled to the possession thereof by virtue of a
special property therein ; and that it was then wrongfully
detained by the defendant, as prescribed in those subdi
visions.
§ 1697. Where the affidavit describes two or more chat
tels of the same kind, it must state the number thereof, and
where it describes a chattel in bulk, it must state the weight,
measurement, or other quantity. Where it describes two or
more chattels to be replevied, it may, at the election of the
plaintifff, state the aggregate value of all ; or, separately,
the value of any chattel or of any class of chattels, and the
aggregate value of the remainder, if any. Where it states
separately the value of one or more chattels or classes of
chattels, the defendant may require, as pnscriljed in the
following provisions of this article, the return of any or all
of the chattels or classes of chattels, the value of which is
thus stated, or of the portion thereof which has been re
plevied. If he procures such a return, the remainder must
be delivered to the plaintifff, except as is otherwise prescribed
in this article.
§ 1698. The sheriff must replevy a smaller number or a
smaller quantity, if the whole of the chattel or chattels de
scribed in the affidavit cannot be found. In that case, if
the aggregate value only is stated in the affidavit, the value
of the entire chattel or class of chattels, as so stated, is to
be deemed the value of the part replevied, for the purposes
of the proceedings to procure a return thereof to the de
fendant.
§ 1699. The undertaking to be delivered to the sheriff,
with a requisition to replevy a chattel, must be executed
by at least two sureties, who must be approved by the
sheriff. It must be to the effect, that the sureties are bound
in a specified sum, not less than twice the value of the
chattel, as stated in the affidavit, for the prosecution of the
action ; for the return of the chattel to tho defendant, if possession thereof is adjudged to him, or if the action
abates, or is discontinued, before the chattel is returned to
the defendant ; and for the payment to the defendant of
any sum, which the judgment awards to him against the
plaintifff.
§ 1 700. If any chattel, described in the affidavit, is found
in the possession of the defendant, or of his agent, the
sheriff, to whom an affidavit, requisition, and undertaking
are delivered, as prescribed in the foregoing sections of this
article, must forthwith replevy it, by taking it into his pos
session. He must thereupon, without delay, serve on the
defendant a copy of the affidavit, requisition, and under
taking, by delivering the same to him personally, if he can
be found within the county; or, if he cannot be so found,
to his agent, if any, from whose possession the chattel is
taken ; or if neither can be found within the county, by
leaving the copy at the usual place of abode of either, with
a person of suitable age and discretion.
§ 1701. If any chattel, described in the affidavit, is
secured or concealed in a building or enclosure, the sheriff
must publicly demand its delivery. If it is not delivered,
pursuant to the demand, he must cause the building or in
closure to be broken open, and must take the chattel into
his possession.
183N.Y.132. § 1702. A sheriff, who has replevied a chattel, must
retain it in his possession, keeping it in a secure place, un
til the person, who is entitled to the possession thereof, is
ascertained, as prescribed in this article. He must then
deliver it to that person, upon request and payment of his
lawful fees, and necessary expenses for taking and keeping
it, as taxed by a judge of the court, or the county judge of
the county where the chattel was replevied, upon such a
notice as the judge deems proper.
§ 1 703. "Within three days after the chattel is replevied,
and a copy of the affidavit, requisition, and undertaking is
served, the defendant, unless he requires a return of the
chattel replevied, or of one or more of them where two or
more chattels are replevied, may serve upon the sheriff a
notice, that he excepts to the plaintifff's sureties ; otherwise
he is deemed to have waived all objections to them. Where
the defendant has not appeared, the notice must be sub
scribed either by him, or by his agent or attorney. The
person so subscribing the notice must add to his signature
his office address, as prescribed by law, with respect to a
notice of appearance. Wif hin ten days after service of such
a notice, the plaintifff's attorney must serve upon the de
fendant's attorney, or, if the defendant has not appeared,
upon the sheriff, notice of the justification of the sureties.
If the notice of justification is served upon the sheriff, he
must immediately serve it upon the person, whose name is
subscribed to the notice of exception, in the mode prescribed
by law, for service of a paper upon an attorney in an action.
g 1704. The defendant, if he does not except to the
plaintifff's sureties, as prescribed in the last section, may,
within the time allowed to him for such an exception, serve
upon the sheriff, a notice that he requires a return of the
chattel replevied. With the notice, he must deliver to the
sheriff the following papers :
1. An affidavit, containing an allegation, either that the
defendant is the owner of the chattel, or thai he is lawfully
entitled to the possession thereof, by virtue of a special
property therein, the facts with respect to which must be
set forth.
2. An undertaking, executed by at least two sureties, to
the effect that they are bound, in a specified sum, not less
than twice the value of the chattel, as stated in the affidavit
of the plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if de
livery thereof is adjudged, or if the action abates in con
sequence of the defendant's death ; and for the payment to
him of any sum, which the judgment awards against the
defendant.
Within three days after serving a notice, requiring a re
turn of the chattel, as prescribed in this section, the de
fendant must serve upon the plaintifff's attorney, notice of
the justification of the sureties to the undertaking.
§ 1705. The justification of sureties, as prescribed in
either of the last two sections, must take place, either in
the county where the chattel was replevied, or in the county
where one of the sureties resides. The provisions, regulating
the justification of bail, contained in article third of title
first of chapter seventh of this act, govern, except as other
wise expressly prescribed in this article, with respect to the
notice of justification of the sureties; the officer before
whom they must justify ; the substitution of new sureties
or a new undertaking ; the examination and qualifications
of the sureties; and the allowance of the undertaking.
But after the allowance, the undertaking and examination
must be delivered to the sheriff.
J 1706. If the defendant neither excepts to the plain
's sureties, nor requires the return of the chattel, within
the time prescribed for that purpose ; or if he makes de
fault in serving notice of the justification of his sureties,
or in procuring the allowance of his undertaking ; or if the
plaintifff, after the defendant has excepted to his sureties,
duly procures the allowance of his undertaking ; the sheriff
must, except in the case specified in section one thousand
seven hundred and nine of this act, immediately deliver
the chattel to the plaintifff. If the plaintifff, after the de
fendant has excepted to his sureties, makes default in serv
ing notice of justification, or in procuring the allowance of
his undertaking ; or if the defendant, after he has required
the return of the chattel, duly procures the allowance of
his undertaking ; the sheriff must immediately deliver the
chattel to the defendant. When the chattel is delivered by the sheriff to either party, as prescribed in this section, the
sheriff ceases to be responsible for the sufficiency of the
sureties of either party ; until then, he is responsible for
the sufficiency of the sureties of the plaintifff or of the de
fendant, as the case may be.
§ 1707. A sheriff, who delivers to either party, without
the consent of the other, a chattel replevied by him, except
as prescribed in the last section, or by virtue of an execu
tion issued upon a judgment in the action, forfeits, to the
party aggrieved, two hundred and fifty dollars ; and is also
liable to him for all damages which he sustains thereby.
§ 1708. Where the sheriff duly delivers a Chattel to
either party, as prescribed in the last section but one, he
must, at the same time, deliver, to the adverse parly, the
undertaking, received by him from the party to whom the
chattel is delivered, together with the examination of the
sureties, and the judge's allowance, if any.
§ 1709. At any time before a chattel, which has been
replevied, is actually delivered to either party, if a person,
not a party to the action, claims, as against the defendant,
a right to the possession thereof, existing at the time when
it was replevied, an affidavit may be made and delivered to
the sheriff, in his behalf, stating that he makes such a claim ;
specifying the chattel or chattels to which it relates, if two
or more chattels have been replevied, and the claim relates
only to part of them ; and setting forth the facts upon
which his right of possession depends. In that case, the
sheriff may, in his discretion, before he delivers the chattel
to the plaintifff, serve upon the plaintifff's attorney a copy of
the affidavit, with a notice that he requires indemnity
against the claim. If the indemnity is not furnished, within
a reasonable time after the plaintifff becomes entitled to the
delivery of the chattel, the sheriff may, in his discretion, de
liver it to the claimant, without incurring any liability to
the plaintifff, by reason of so doing.
§ 1710. A person, not a party to the action, who has
served an affidavit, as prescribed in the Inst section, may
maintain an action against the sheriff, who has delivered
the chattel to the plaintifff, to recover his damages, by rea
son of the taking, detention, or delivery of the chattel. But
the summons in such an action must be issued, within three
months after the delivery of the chattel to the plaintifff, and
must be served, within three months after it is issued. An
action cannot be maintained against a sheriff, by a person
so entitled to make a claim, except as prescribed in this
section.
§ 1711. The indemnity, to be furnished to the sheriff
by the plaintifff, as prescribed in the last section but one,
must consist of a written undertaking to him, executed by
at least two sureties, to the effect that they will indemnify
him against any liability for damages, costs, or expenses, to be incurred in an action brought against him, by the claim
ant, or a person deriving title from or through the claim
ant, by reason of the taking or detention of the chattel,
or its delivery to the plaintifff, not exceeding a sum to be
specified in the undertaking, which must be atleast five hun
dred dollars, and not less than the actual value of the chat
tel claimed, and two hundred and fifty dollars in addition
thereto. Each of the sureties, besides possessing the other
qualifications required by law, must be a freeholder or a
householder of the sheriffs county. The sheriff, before de
livering the chattel, may require the persons offered as sure
ties to submit to an examination, before the officer who
takes the' acknowledgment of the undertaking, as where
persons are offered to him as bail upon an arrest. The sure
ties are entitled to be substituted its defendants in an action,
brought as prescribed in the last section, as if the chattel
had been levied upon by virtue of an execution.
§ 17 IS. The affidavit, to be delivered to the sheriff in
behalf of the plaintifff, with a requisition to replevy a chat
tel, may be made by the plaintifff's agent or attorney, if the
material facts are within his personal knowledge ; or if the
plaintifff is not within the county where the attorney re
sides, or has his office, or is not capable of making the
affidavit. Theaffldavit, to be delivered to the sheriff, either
in behalf of the defendant, with a notice that he requires
the return of the chattel, or in behalf of a person, not a
party, who makes a claim as prescribed in section one thou
sand seven hundred and nine of this act, may be made by an
agent or attorney, if the material facts are within his per
sonal knowledge, or if the defendant or claimant, as the
case may be, is not within the county where the property
was replevied, and capable of making the affidavit. Where
the affidavit is made by an attorney or agent, he must state
therein what allegations, if any, are made upon his infor
mation and belief ; and he must set forth therein the grounds
of his belief, as to all matters not stated upon his knowl
edge, and the reason why the affidavit is not made by the
party or the claimant.
§ 1713. Where the sheriff has replevied a part only of
a chattel, or of two or more chattels, described in the
plaintifff's affidavit, and has served upon the defendant the
papers required upon such a replevin, the plaintifff may, at
any time before the service of a copy of the defendant's
answer, or before judgment by default, for want of an
appearance or pleading, require the same or any other
sheriff, to replevy any other part thereof. For that purpose he
must deliver to the sheriff an affidavit, containing the same
allegations, and a requisition and undertaking, with respect
to the part yet to be replevied, as if the action was brought
to recover that part only. Where a second or subsequent
replevin is made, as prescribed in this section, the proceed
ings are the same, as if a former replevin had not been
made.
§ 1714. Where an order of arrest is granted, as pre
scribed in title first of chapter seventh of this act, the
plaintifff's right to a replevin is subject to the following
regulations :
1. If the defendant has been arrested, pursuant to the
order, a subsequent replevin cannot be made of a chattel,
with respect to which the order was granted.
2. If the defendant has not been arrested, a subsequent
replevin of a chattel, with respect to which the order was
granted, supersedes the order.
§ 1715. The sheriff must, within twenty days after he
has delivered a chattel replevied by him, to the party en
titled to the possession thereof, or to a third person, as
prescribed in this article, file with the clerk the plaintifff's
affidavit, and the accompanying requisition, with a return,
stating in what manner he has executed the latter. If he
has omitted to replevy a part of the chattel, or of two or
more chattels, described in the affidavit, the return must
state the cause of the omission.
§ 1716. If the sheriff fails to comply with the last sec
tion, either party may. require him so to do, within ten
days after service of a notice to that effect, or to show
cause, at a term of the court designated in the notice, why
he should not be punished for a contempt of the court. The
notice may be served at any time before final judgment,
except that it cannot be served on the part of the defend
ant, before answer. An omission to comply with such a
notice is punishable as a contempt of the court.
§ 1717. The plaintifff's affidavit, with the accompanying
requisition, and the return of the sheriff, must be made a
part of the judgment-roll in the action ; and a copy of each
of them must be furnished to the court, or the referee,
upon the trial of an issue of fact, with a copy of the sum
mons and of the pleadings.
§ 1718. The plaintifff may proceed in the action, and
recover therein the chattel, or its value, although he has
not required the sheriff to replevy it, or the sheriff has not
been able to replevy it.
86 Hnn, 68.
§ 1719. "Where part only of two or more distinct chat
tels, specified in the complaint, has been replevied, the
plaintifff's attorney may, with or before the notice of trial,
serve upon the defendant's attorney a notice, that he aban
dons so much of his claim, as relates to those which have
not been replevied ; and thenceforth the proceedings are
the same, as if the action had been brought to recover only
the chattels which have been replevied. A copy of the
notice must be furnished to the court, or to the referee,
upon the trial of an issue of fact, with a copy of the sum
mons and of the pleadings.
§ 1720. An allegation, in a pleading interposed by
either party, to the effect that the party pleading, or & third person, was, at the time when the action was com
menced, or the chattel was replevied, as the case may be,
the owner of the chattel, or that it was then his property,
is a sufficient statement of title, unless the right of action
or defense rests upon a right of possession, by virtue of a
special property ; in which case, the pleading must set
forth the facts, upon which the special property depends,
so as to show, that at the time when the action was com
menced, or the chattel was replevied, as the case may be,
the party pleading, or the third person, was entitled to the
possession of the chattel.
§ 1721. Where the complaint contains a sufficient statement of the plaintifff's title, a general allegation, that the
defendant wrongfully took the chattel, is sufficient, with
out setting forth the facts, showing that the taking was
wrongful. Where the taking of the chattel is not com
plained of, but the action is founded upon its wrongful
detention, the complaint must set forth the facts, showing
that the detention was wrongful.
§ 1722. Where the plaintifff recovers a chattel which
was injured, or otherwise depreciated in value, while it was
in the possession or under the control of the defendant,
under such circumstances, that the plaintifff might recover
damages for the injury or depreciation, in an action
brought against the defendant therefore, he may recover the
same damages, in an action brought as prescribed in this
article. In that case, he must set forth the facts in his
complaint, and demand judgment for damages accord
ingly.
§ 1723. The defendant may by answer defend, on the
ground that a third person was entitled to the chattel, without connecting himself with the latter's title.
§ 1724. Where the defense is, that a chattel, to recover
which the action is brought, was distrained doing damage,
an allegation that the defendant, or the person by whose
command he acted, was then lawfully possessed of the real
property, and that the chattel was distrained, while it was
doing damage thereupon, is sufficient, without setting forth
the title to the real property.
§ 1725. Where a chattel has been replevied and de
livered to the plaintifff, or to a person not a party to the
action, as prescribed in the foregoing section of this article,
the defendant's attorney may, within the time allowed to
him for the service of a notice of trial, serve upon the
plaintifff's attorney, a notice, that the defendant demands
judgment for the return of the chattel, or for its value,
either with or without damages for the detention thereof.
Upon the trial, a copy of such a notice must be furnished
to the court or referee, with a copy of the summons and of
the pleadings.
§
1726.
The
verdict,
report,
or
decision
must
fix the
278.
damages, if any, of the prevailing party. Where it awards
53 N. Y.
Super. Ct. to the plaintifff a chattel, which has not been replevied, or
(j. & s.) iaa. where it awards to the prevailing parly a chattel, which has
been replevied, and afterwards delivered by the sheriff to
the unsuccessful party, or to a person not a party, it must
also, except in a case specified in the next section, fix the
value of the chattel, at the time of the trial.
§ 1727. A verdict, report, or decision, in favor of the
58 N. Y.
Super. Ct. defendant, shall not fix the value of the chattel, in either of
(J.&S.)132. the following cases :
1. Where the plaintifff is the general owner of the chattel ;
but it was rightfully distrained doing damage, and its value
is greater than the damages sustained by the defendant, by
the injury for which it was distrained ; in which case, those
damages must be fixed.
2. Where the plaintifff is the general owner of the chattel,
but the defendant had a special property therein, and the
value of the chattel is greater than the value of the special
property, or the sum charged upon the chattel by reason
thereof ; in which case, the value of the special property,
or the sum so charged, must be fixed.
In either of the cases specified in this section, the verdict,
report, or decision must set forth the reason, why the value
of the chattel is not fixed.
§ 1 728. Where the action is brought to recover two or
M5N.Y.J70.
more chattels, the verdict, report, or decision may award to
one party one or more distinct chattels, which can be identi
fied, and set apart from the others, and the residue to the other
party ; and, if necessary, the complaint must be amended
so as to conform thereto. The final judgment, rendered
thereupon, must award to each party the same relief, with
respect to the finding in his favor, as if separate judgments
were rendered , except that, where each party is entitled to
an absolute award of a sum of money, against the other, the
smaller sum must be deducted from the greater, and the
balance only must be awarded.
§ 1729. Where the plaintifff is entitled to judgment by
default, for want of an appearance or pleading, the court,
to which he applies for judgment, may ascertain and deter
mine the damages to which he is entitled, and the value of
the chattel, if necessary ; or may direct a reference, or a writ
of inquiry, for that purpose.
§ 1730. Final judgment for the plaintifff must award to
him possession of the chattel recovered by him, with his
damages, if any. If a chattel recovered was not replevied,
or if, after it was replevied, it was delivered to the defend
ant, or to a person not a party, as prescribed in this article,
the final judgment must also award to the plaintifff the sum
fixed as the value thereof, to be paid by the defendant, if
possession thereof is not delivered to the plaintifff. If the de
A directwo to sKisfr a ?UTa of kwkt ix.:j of jw-vriy,
as prccriijed in :. is r«n:-:or.. mu« iv in the !V; :« iws'.u-.wl
by law for a like .di*e>t:.>n. irhoTv »n (fv^n»i:>>:> »>r»m«t
property is issued upon a jmlsnirnt for tt sum of w«\>»u\\
§ 173S. For the purpose of takinst p.v<s«'v<i>\« of * >-U&r
tel. bv virtue of such an execution, the |x<\\cr«> of lt\o
sheriff are the sime, as where he i^< rotjuiml to tv|0c\j A
chattel.
§ 1733. A plaintifff, who has recovered a lliml Juil|tuti<lil,
cannot maintain an action against the suiiiIin In nu unilrl
taking, given in behalf of the defendant to procure a rt'limi
of the chattel, or against the liail of a defendant, who lum
been arrested, until after ''', return, wholl.v or partly tut
satisfied or unexecuted, of an execution in his favor for the
delivery of the possession of the chattel, or to satisfy a sum
of money out of the property of the defendant, or for both
purposes, as the case requires. A defendant, who has re
covered a final judgment, cannot maintain an action against
the sureties in the plaintifff's undertaking, given to procure
a replevin, until after a like return of a similar execution
against the plaintifff.
§ 1734. In such an action against the sureties, the sher
iff's return to the execution is presumptive evidence of a
failure to deliver, or to return a chattel, or to pay a sum of
money, according to the terms of the undertaking.
§ 1735. It is not a defense to such an action, that the
chattel was injured or destroyed, after it was replevied,
unless the injury or destruction was effected by the act, or
with the consent of the plaintifff in the action, or occurred
after the chattel was taken by virtue of the execution.
§ 1736. In an action to recover a chattel, the cause of
action survives or continues, notwithstanding the death of
either party, in favor of or against his executor or admin
istrator. Where the court makes an order, directing
the abatement of such an action, as prescribed in section
seven hundred and sixty-one of this act, an action may be
maintained, upon an undertaking, given for the purpose of
procuring a delivery or return of a chattel, as if final
judgment, awarding to the adverse party possession
thereof, had been rendered in the first action, and an exe
cution thereupon had been returned unexecuted and un
satisfied ; except that damages cannot be recovered therein
for a wrongful taking, withholding, or detention. An ac
tion to recover the chattel cannot be maintained, after an
action has been commenced upon an undertaking, as pre
scribed in this section.
§ 1737. An action may be maintained to foreclose a lien
Consol. Act upon a chattel, for a sum of money, in any case where such
3. Hun, 288. a j;en exjgts at tue commencement of the action. The action
may be brought in any court, of record or not of record,
which would have jurisdiction to render a judgment, in an
action founded upon a contract, for a sum equal to the
amount of the lien.
§ii50 l.'s;,
§ 1'38. Where the action is brought in the supreme
consoi.Act court, a superior city court, the marine court of the city of
m w" ai849' ^cw York, or a county court, if the plaintifff is not in possession of the chattel, a warrant may be granted by the

if ueot^acx. -mcL K is aisrs-^d It >:.:«. ^lt » ,!. ..■.•,. »m,
upon ■sriiiin. a* ^Trrrnacm* t? perseon*'. "y s^txys^ v» Ii.iMo i,\»
the aznnrnn of liit lias, or for any pari Unroot, it «»jv\ »l>o
•ward ptTman kfi.vf__z_rvv.
than am cfzii:.* specified in the U-<S Stvii-41 bwl >«!<\ it ili>x *>^ ^'*
pl^rrrr? i« ihx in possessij^a of tho di.-uu■'.. * \\*nsnl, »\m>\
Trum J^- r -rJ-rf» T'rr>ptT orSoor u>9ti.-eihe ohsin-1, sn.l vit(-l\
keep it vo sbii? the judcmeiit. msy b^ is>«ol, in tiko «\j«h
ner as & -wirriiit of macinuui may bo iss\it\i tn *n »on^«
fouDikd Dpoa a contract, bn>ufht in iho ss»hk> ivtirt ; »>^l
the provisions of law, applicable to a warrant of *tt»ohment. issued out of that court, apply to a warrant, issxwil
as prescribed in this Stx'tion, and to the proceedings to p«\>cure it, and after it has been issued ; eMvpt as othorwisrt
specined in the judgment. A judgment in favor of Mm
plaintifff, in such an action, must correspond to a judgment,
rendered as prescribed in the last section, except thai il
must direct the sale of the chattel by tin officer to whom wn
execution, issued out of the court, may be directed i and
the payment of the surplus, if its safe, keeping is neeesmtry,
to the county treasurer, for the. bcuetit of the owner.
§ 1741. This article docs not nfToot any exlsling right or
remedy to foreclose or satisfy a lien upon a clmllol, without
action ; and it does notapply to a case, when' another mniln
of enforcing a lien upon a chattel is specially prcHcrlbud
bylaw.
§ 1742. [Am'd 18S7.] An action maybe maintained by
the woman to procure a judgment declaring a marriage
contract void, and annulling the marriage, under the fol
lowing circumslances :
I. Where the plaintifff had not attained the age of sixteen
years, at the time of the marriage.
II. Where the marriage took place 'without the consent
of her father, mother, guardian or other person having the
legal charge of her person.
IIL Where it was not followed by consummation or cohab
itation, and was not ratified by any mutual assent of the
parties after the plaintifff attained the age of sixteen years.
§ 1746. An action to annul a marriage, on the ground
that one of the parties thereto was an idiot, may be main
tained, at any time during the lifetime of either party, by
any relative of the idiot, who has an interest to avoid the
marriage.
§ 1747. An action to annul a marriage, on the ground
that one of the parties thereto was a lunatic, may be main
tained, at any time during the continuance of the lunacy,
or, after the death of the lunatic in that condition, and '
during the life of the other party to the marriage, by any
relative of the lunatic, who has an interest to avoid the
marriage. Such an action may also be maintained by the
lunatic, at any time after restoration to a sound mind ; but,
in that case, the marriage shall not be annulled, if it appears
that the parties freely cohabited as husband and wife, after
the lunatic was restored to a sound mind.
§ 1748. Where no relative of the idiot or lunatic brings
an action to annul the marriage, as prescribed in either of
the last two sections, the court may allew an action for that
purpose to be maintained, at any time during the lifetime
of both the parties to the marriage, by any person as the
next friend of the idiot or lunatic. But this section does
not apply, where the marriage might have been annulled,
at the suit of the lunatic, as prescribed in the last section.
§ 1749. A child of a marriage, which is annulled on
the ground of the idiocy or lunacy of one of its parents, is
deemed, for all purposes, the legitimate child of the parent
who is of sound mind.
§ 1750. An action to annul a marriage, on the ground
that the consent of one of the parties thereto was obtained
by force, duress, or fraud, may be maintained, at any time,
by the party whose consent was so obtained. Such an ac
tion may also be maintained, during the life-time of the
other party, by the parent or the guardian of the person of
the party, whose consent was so obtained, or by any relative
of that party, who has an interest to avoid the marriage.
But a marriage shall not be annulled on the ground of force
or duress, if it appears that, at any time before the com
mencement of the action, the parties thereto voluntarily
cohabited as husband and wife ; or on the ground of fraud,
if it appears that, at any time before the commencement
thereof, the parties voluntarily cohabited as husband and
wife, with a full knowledge of the facts constituting the
fraud.
§ 1751. The court must, upon the application of the
plaintifff, award the custody of the children of a marriage,
which is annulled on the ground of force, duress, or fraud,
to the innocent parent, unless it appears that the latter is
unfit, for any reason, to have the custody of one or more
of the children, in which case the court must give such di
rections relating thereto, as the interests of the child or children require. The judgment may make provision for
the education and maintenance of the children, out of the
property of the guilty parent.
§ 1752. An action to annul a marriage, on the ground
that one of the parties was physically incapable of entering
into the marriage state, may lie maintained only by the in
jured party, against the party whose incapacity is aliened.
Such an action must be commenced, before two years have
expired since the marriage.
§ 1753. In an action brought as prescribed in this ar
ticle, a final judgment, annulling the marriage, shall not bo
rendered by default, for want of an appearance or pleading,
or upon the trial of an issue, without proof of the facts,
upon which the allegation of nullity is founded. And the
declaration or confession of either party to the marriage
is not alone sufficient as proof; but other satisfactory evi
dence of the facts must be produced. In sueli an action,
except where it is founded upon an allegation of the physi
cal incapacity of one of the parties thereto, the court must,
upon the application of either of the parties, make an or
der directing the trial, by a jury of all the issues of fact ;
or it may, of its own motion, make an order directing the
trial, by a jury, of one or more issues of fact; for which
purpose, the questions to be tried must be prepared and
settled, as prescribed in section nine hundred and seventy
of this act.
§ 1754. A final judgment, annulling a marriage, ren
dered during the life-time of both the parties, is conclusive
evidence of the invalidity of the marriage, in every court,
of record or not of record, in any action or special pro
ceeding, civil or criminal. Such a judgment, rendered
after the death of either party to the marriage, is conclu
sive only as against the parties to the action, and those
claiming under them.
§ 1755. An order, allowing a person to maintain an ac
tion, as the next friend of an infant, as prescribed in sec
tion one thousand seven hundred and forty-four of this
act, or as the next friend of an idiot or lunatic, as prescribed
in section one thousand seven hundred and forty-eight of
this act, may be granted by the court, in its discretion, with
out notice, or upon notice to such persons and in such a
manner, as it deems proper. A motion to vacate such an
order must be made at a term held by the judge who
granted it, unless he is dead, out of office, or unable to hear
it by reason of sickness or otherwise ; or unless he expressly
directs it to be heard at a term held by another judge. But
where such an order has been granted, the court, to which
application for final judgment is made, may dismiss the
complaint, if justice so requires, although, in a like case,
the party to the marriage, if plaintifff, would be entitled to
judgment.
§ 1759. Regulations when action
be maiitained.
brought by wife.
I7W. Answer; mode of trial;
17U0. Id. ; when action brought
itiiltimciit iiy default.
by husband.
1 7.MS. When divorce denied, al1701. Marriage after divorce for
though adultery proved.
adultery.
1IHN.Y.M9.
u 1766. In cither of the following cases, a husband or
II wife may maintain an action, against the other party to
tlin marilngtt, to procure a judgment, divorcing the parties
and dissolving the marriage, by reason of the defendant's
adultery :
1. Where both parties were residents of the State, when
the offense was committed.
2. Where the parties were married within the State.
H Where the plaintifff was a resident of the State, when
1l»! offense was co nmitted, and is a resident thereof, when
llii) action is commenced.
4. Where the offense was committed within the State,
and the injured party, when the action is commenced, is a
resident of the Slate.
§ 1767. The answer of the defendant may be made,
without verifying it, notwithstanding the verification of
the complaint. If the answer puts in issue the allegation
of adultery, the court must, upon the application of either
party, or it may, of its own motion, make an order direct
ing thi! trial, by a jury, of that issue ; for which purpose,
the (|ue.stions to be tried mu t be prepared and settled, as
proscribed in section nine hundred and seventy of this act.
If the answer does not put in issue the allegation of adul
tery, or if the defendant makes default in appearing or
pleading, the plaintifff, before he is entitled to judgment,
iiiii»t nevertheless satisfactorily prove the material allega
1 ions of his complaint, and also, by his own testimony or
otherwise, that there is no judgment or decree, in any court
of the State of competent jurisdiction, again -t him in favor
of the defendant for a divorce upon the ground of adultery.
§ 1758. In either of the following cases, the plaintifff
is not entitled to a divorce, although the adultery is estab
lished :
1. Where the offense was committed by the procurement
or with the connivance of the plaintifff.
2. Where the offense charged has been forgiven by the
plaintifff. The forgiveness may be proved, either affirma
tively, or by the voluntary cohabitation of the parties, with
the knowledge of the fact.
8. Where there has been no express forgiveness, and no
voluntary cohabitation of the parties, but the action was
not commenced within five years after the discovery, by
the plaintifff, of the offense charged. aisr heer. in;!j\ ,v »,t,>'
crs thai iln ii,t<-n.tsn; *>»»•.'<•,
to a divoiv-c
« 17S9. Tter tieaetWE fc Brought b\ ll« wit,, th,
fuiiMwiur T»^rii*i ts-— *pr> " i tin piiviiii 'u-^
1 T»t JeEJU"*"? of any cniM ot iht- m-irni ■-, bom ot
IcguUrr lis'"!! in* curmmencrment of ilu a, ,mi>, iv i>,>i
affiled iw u*t jacinnrn: dewo'ving tin- nvi—i-ije
2. TJBecnun m.-y ii. the nnal iniurment dissolvinc the
nuB-nasc remine uc defendant to provide sniiali<\ tot the
edncanm: an . iuaiiiieminoe of the children o! the tnamsgo.
and for u»e ampon of the plaintifff. as iu«tice require*. hs\
ins reswd to the cmTnn<»anc«i of the rcsp. et;ve tvi> lies
8. If when nual judgment is rendered, distorting the
raarriaire the plaintifff is the owner of any Teal pmpertj ;
or ha*, in ber possession, or under her oortrol. arv per
sonal property, or thing in action, which v«s h!'t >\ ifh nor
In- the defendant, or acquired by her own industry, or given
to her by bequest or otherwise : or if she is or may t here
after tiecorne entitled to any property. by the decease of a
relative intestate : the defendant shall not have any interest
therein, absolute or contingent, before or after her death.
4. Where final judgment is rendered, dissolving the
marriage, tbe plaintifff's inchoate right of dower, in any rw»l
property, of which the defendant then is or was theretofore
seized, is not affected by the judgment,
g 1760. Where the action is brought by tbe husband, iisn.Y.m*
the following regulations apply to the proceedings :
1. Tbe legitimacy of a child, born or begotten before
the commission of the offense charged, is not affected by a
judgment dissolving the marriage; but the legitimacy of
any other child of the wife may be determined, as one of
the issues in the action. In the absence of proof to the
contrary, the legitimacy of all the children, begotten liefore the commencement of theaction, must be presumed.
2. A judgment dissolving the marriage docs not impair,
or otherwise affect, the plaintifff's rights ami interests, in
and to any real or personal property, which the defendant
owns or possesses, when the judgment is rendered.
3. Where judgment is rendered dissolving the mar
riage, the defendant is not entitled to dower in any of the
plaintifff's real property, or to a distributive share In his
personal property.
§ 1761. Where a marriage is dissolved, as prescribed H Alili. N.
in this article, the plaintifff nuiy many again, (luring Ilia ''■ '""•
lifetime of the defendant ; but a defendant, ad|udge(| to
be guilty of adultery, shall not marry again, until tliedeatli
•u_
of the plaintifff. But this section does not prevent the re
marriage of the parties to the action .
§ 1768. In either of the cases specified in the next secCX 236.
tion, an acti0Q may be maintained, by a husband or wife,
iiON.Y.i8a against the other party to the marriage, to procure a judg
ment, separating the parties from bed and board, forever,
or for a limited time, for either of the following causes :
1. The cruel and inhuman treatment of the plaintifff by
the defendant.
33 N. T.
2. Such conduct, on the p:irt of the defendant towards
State Hep. the plaintifff, as may render it unsafe and improper for the
former to cohabit with the latter.
3. The abandonment of the plaintifff by the defendant.
4. Where the wife is plaintifff, the neglect or refusal of
the defendant to provide for her.
120N.Y.485.
§ 1763. Such an action maybe maintained, in either
of the following cases :
1 . Where both parties are residents of the State, when
the action is commenced.
2. Where the parties were married within the State, and
the plaintifff is a resident, thereof, when (he action is com
menced.
3. Where the parties, having been married without the
State, have become residents of the State, and have con
tinued to be residents thereof at least one year ; and the
plaintifff is such a resident, when the action is commenced,
§ 1764. The complaint in such an action must specify
particularly the nature and circumstances of the defend
ant's misconduct, and must set forth the time and place of
each act complained of, with reasonable certainty.
17 Abb. N.
§ 1766. The defendant may set up, in justification, the
c. 236.
misconduct of the plaintifff ; and if that defense is estab
lished to the satisfaction of the court, the defendant is en
titled to judgment.
91 N.T. 881.
§ 1766. Where the action is brought by the wife, the
court may, in the final judgment of separation, give such
directions, as the nature and circumstances of the case re
quire. In particular, it may compel the defendant to pro
vide suitably for the education and maintenance of the
children of the marriage, and for the support of the plain
tiff, as justice requires, having regard to the circumstances
of the respective parties. And the court may. in such an
action, render a judgment, compelling the defendant to
make the provision specified in this section, where, under
the circumstances of the case, such a judgment is proper,
without rendering a judgment of separation.
§ 1767. Upon t'.ie joint application of the parties, ac
companied with satisfactory evidence of their reconcilia
tion, a judgment for a separation, forever, or for a limited
period, rendered as prescribed in this article, maybe re
voked at any time, by the court which rendered it, subject
to such regulations and restrictions as the court thinks fit
to impose.
§ 1768. If a married woman dwells within the State,
when she commences an action against her husband, as
prescribed in either of the last two articles, she is deemed
a resident thereof, although her husband resides elsewhere.
§ 1769. Where an action is brought, as prescribed in
either of the last two articles, the court may, in its discretion, during the pendency thereof, from time to time, make
and modify an order or orders, requiring the husband to
pay any sum or sums of money, necessary to enable the
wife to carry on or defend the action, orto provide suitably
for the education and maintenance of the children of the
marriage, or for the support of the wife, having regard to
the circumstances of the respective parties.
The final
judgment in such an action may award costs, in favor of
or against either party, and an execution may lie issued for
the collection thereof, as in an ordinary case ; or the court
may, in the judgment, or by an order made at any time,
direct the costs to be paid out of any property sequestered,
or otherwise in the power of the court.
8 1770. [Am'd 1881.] Where an action is brought by
either husband or wife, as prescribed in either of the last
two articles, a cause of action against the plaintifff and in
favor of the defendant, arising under either of said articles,
may be interposed, in connection with a denial of the ma
terial allegation of the complaint, as a counterclaim.
§ 1771. Where an action is brought by either husband
or wife, as prescribed in either of the last two articles, the
court must, except as otherwise expressly prescribed in
those articles, give, either in the final judgment, or by one
or more orders, made from time to time, before final judg
ment, such directions, as justice requires, between the
parties, for the custody, care, and education of any of the
children of the marriage
re the action waB brought,
§ 1772. Where a judgment rendered, or an order made,
as prescribed in this article, or in either of the last two
articles, requires a husband to provide for the education or
maintenance of any of the children of a marriage, or for
the support of his wife, the court may, in its discretion,
also direct him to give reasonable security, in such a man
ner, and within such a time, as it thinks proper, for the
payment, from time to time, of the sums of money required
for that purpose. If he fails to give the security or to
make any payment required by the terms of such a judg
ment or order, whether he has or has not given security
therefore ; or to pay any sum of money which he is required
to pay by an order, made as prescribed in section one thou
sand seven hundred and sixty-nine of this act ; the court
may cause his personal property, and the rents and profits
of his real property, to be sequestered, and may appoint a
receiver thereof. The rents and profits, and other property,
so sequestered, may be, from time to time, applied, under
the direction of the court, to the payment of any of the
sums of money specified in this section, as justice requires.
§ 1773. Where the husband makes default in paying
any sum of money specified in the last section, as required
by the judgment or order directing the payment thereof ;
and it appears presumptively, to the satisfaction of tho
court, that payment cannot be enforced by means of the
proceedings prescribed in the last section, or by resorting
to the security, if any, given as therein prescribed, the court
may, in its discretion, mako an order requiring the husban'l
to show cause before it, at a time and place therein specified,
why he should not be punished for his failure to make the
payment ; and thereupon proceedings must be taken to
punish him, as prescribed in title third of chapter seven
teenth of this act. Such an order to show cause may also
be made, without any previous sequestration, or direction
to give security, where the court is satisfied that they would
be ineffectual.
§ 1774. In an action brought as prescribed in this title,
a final judgment shall not be rendered in favor of the plain
tiff, upon the defendant's defiiult in appearing or pleading,
unless either the summons and a copy of the complaint
were personally served upon the defendant. ; or the copy of
the summons delivered to the defendant, upon personal
service of the summons, or delivered to him without the
State, or published, pursuant to an order for that purpose,
obtained as prescribed in chapter fifth of this act, contains
the following words, or words to the same effect, legibly
written or printed upon the face thereof, to wit : " Action
to annul a marriage ;" " Action for a divorce ;" or "Action
for a separation ;" according to the article of this title, isiaer wiiicb -fite actior. h- hrnuciit. Tbew tlw smmnw»».
5' ;«jsramlrr served, nr * :-n; t ,-,f .be <\«tr.pl*ji I rs n.>l
■wrrsd tBerewni. : ar-wtten & r c>t ,-,f ibf y1;roiv.w»v „»,; *
C'j'T of lljf campmin; an* at-:-. • 7~'.-. 10 in.' oi :.-; ,i.-,i i * i).
§ 1775. In an action brought by or against, a corporatioo. the complaint must aver that the plaintifff, or iho ticfendant, as the case may be. is a corporation ; must state
whether it is a domestic corporation or a foreign corporation ; and. if the latter, the state, country, or government.
by or under whose laws it was mated. " But the plaintifff
need not set forth, or specially refer to, any act or proceeding, by or under which the corivtration was create*!.
17 Id. S89 ; 5 X. Y. Supp. a ; r>S Hun. W.
i- 1776. In an aotion.brouglit byoragainsi aci>r|niration.
the plaintifff need not prove, ii|m>ii llie trial, the exisleinv
of the corj»oriition. unless the answer is verilieil. niul eontains an aftirniative allegsilion that the plaintifff, or (lie
defendant, asthe cast1 may Me. is not a corporation.
§ 1777. In nn action or special prtM-ceding, brought by
or against a corporation, the defendant is deemed to have
waived any mistake in the statement of the corporate
name, unless the misnomer is pleaded in the answer, or
other pleading iu the defendant's behalf.
% 1780. An action against a foreign corporation maybe
rriainl.-ilni^t Ijy a resident of the State, or by a domestic
'!<»T"ratlon, f«>r any cause of action. An action against a
foreign corp<iration may be maintained by anotherforeign
<^»r|Kjmtion, or by a nonresident, in one of the following
cuwit only :
!• Where the action is brought to recover damages for
the breach of a contract, made within the State, or relating
'" properly situated within the State, at the time of the
jiiakltj({ thereof.
a. Where it is brought to recover real property situated
within the Stale, or a chattel, which is replevied within the
Male.
II. Where the cause of action arose within the State,
except where I he object of I lie action is to affect the title to
real property situated without the State.
§ 1781. An action maybe maintained against one or
more trustees, directors, managers, or other officers of a
corporation, to procure a judgment for the following purposes, or so much thereof as the case requires :
1. Compelling the defendants to account for their official
conduct, in the management and disposition of the funds
and properly, committed to their churge.
2. Compelling them to pay to the corporation, which they
represent, or to its creditors, any money, and the value of
any property, which they have acquired to themselves, or
transferred to others, or lost, or wasted, by a violation of
their duties.
3. Suspending a defendant from exercising his office,
where it appears that he has abused his trust.
4. Removing a defendant from his office, upon proof or
conviction of misconduct, and directing a new election to
be held by the body or board, duly authorized to hold the
same, in order to supply the vacancy created by the re
moval ; or, where there is no such body or board, or where
all the members thereof arc removed, directing the lemoval
to be reported to the governor, who may, with the advice
and consent of the senate, fill the vacancies.
5. Setting aside an alienation of property, made by one
or more trustees, directors, managers, o.' other officers of a
corporation, contrary to a provision of law, or for a purpose
foreign to the lawful business aud objects of the ( orporation, where the alienee knew the purpose of the alienation.
6. Restraining and preventing such an alienation, where
it is threatened, or where there is good reason to appre
hend that it will be made.
§ 1 782. An action may be brought, as prescribed in the
last section, by the Attorney-General in behalf of the peopie of the State ; or, except where the action is brought for
the purpose specified in subdivision third or fourth of that
section, by a creditor of the corporation, or by a trustee,
director, manager, or other officer of the corporation,
having a general superintendence of its concerns.
§ 1783. This article does not divest or impair any visi
tatorial power over a corporation, which is vested by statute
in a corporate body, or a public officer.
§ * l?84. Where final judgment for a sum of money has
i)0.
' been rendered against a corporation created by or under
37 Hun, 522. the laws of the State, and an execution, issued thereupon
to the sheriff of the county, where the corporation tran
sacts its general business, or where its principal office is
located, has been returned wholly or partly unsatisfied, the
judgment creditor may maintain an action to procure a
judgment, sequestrating the property of the corporation,
and providing for a distribution thereof, as prescribed in
section one thousand seven hundred and ninety-three of
this act.
£ 1785. In either of the following cases, an action to
6 Civ. Pro.
90
procure a judgment, dissolving a corporation, created by
17' Abb. N. or under the laws of the State, and forfeiting its corporate
C. 115.
105N.Y.340. rights, privileges, and franchises, may be maintained, as
3 How. Pr. prescribed in the next section :
N. S. 137.
1. Where the corporation has remained insolvent for at
least one year.
2. Where it has neglected or refused, for at least one
year, to pay and discharge its notes or other evidences of
debt.
3. Where it has suspended its ordinary and lawful busi
ness for at least one year.
4. If it has banking powers, or power to make loans on
pledges or deposits, or to make insurances, where it be
comes insolvent or unable to pay its debts, or has violated
any provision of the act, by or under which it was incor
porated, or of any other act binding upon it.
3 How. Pr.
§ 1786. [Am'd 1880.] An action specified in the last
N. 8. 137.
section may be maintained by the Attorney-General in the
H iU'b' N" name an(l m behalf of the people ; and whenever a creditor
N.
or stockholder of any corporation submits to the AttorneyGeneral a written statement of facts, verified by oath, show
ing grounds for an action under the provisions of the last
section, and the Attorney-General omits, for sixty days
after this submission, to commence an action specified in the
last section, then, and not otherwise, such creditor or stock
holder may apply to the proper court for leave to com
mence! such an action, and on obtaining leave may main
tain the same accordingly.
§ 1787. In an action, brought as prescribed in lids
article, the court may, upon proof of the facts authorizing
the action to be maintained, grant an injunction order, re
straining the corporation, and its trustees, directors, man
agers, and other officers, from collecting or receiving any
debt or demand, and from paying out, or in any way trans
ferring or delivering, to any person, any monev, property,
or effects of the corporation, during the pendency of the
action ; except by express permission of the court. Where
the action is brought to procure the dissolution of the cor
poration, the injunction may also restrain the corporation,
and its trustees, directors, managers, and other oilieeis,
from exercising any of its corporate rights, privileges, or
franchises, during the pendency of the action ; except
by express permission of the court.
The provisions of
title second of chapter seventh of this act, relating to the
granting, vacating, or modifying of an injunction order,
apply to an injunction order, granted as prescribed in
this section; except that it can be granted only by the
court.
§ 1788. [Am'd 1882.] In such an action, the court may 6 riv. Pro.
also, at any stage thereof, appoint one or more receivers of ■'[};.
the property of the corporation. A receiver, so appointed,
'' NY"m
before final judgment is a temporary receiver, until final
judgment is entered. A temporary receiver has power to
collect and receive the debts, demands, and other property
of the corporation ; to preserve the property, and the pro
ceeds of the debts and demands collected ; to sell or other
wise dispose of the property as directed by the court ; to
collect, receive and preserve the proceeds thereof ; and to
maintain any action or special proceeding, for either of
those purposes. He must qualify as prescribed by law for
the qualification of a permanent receiver. Unless addi
tional powers arc specially conferred upon him, as pre
scribed in the next section, a temporary receiver has only
the powers specified in this section, and those which are
incidental to the exercise thereof. A receiver appointed
by or pursuant to a final judgment in the action, or a tem
porary receiver who is continued by the final judgment, is
a permanent receiver, and has all the powers and authority
conferred, and is subject to all the duties and liabilities
imposed upon a receiver appointed upon* the voluntary
dissolution of a corporation.
* Word " upon " omitted in original.
§ 1789. A temporary receiver, appointed as prescribed
in the last section, is, in all respects, subject to the control
of the court. In addition to the powers conferred upon
him, by the provisions of the last section, the court may, by
the order or interloculory judgment appointing him, or by
an order subsequently made in the action, or by the final
judgment, confer upon him the powers and authority, and
subject him to the duties and liabilities, of a permanent re
ceiver, or so much thereof as it thinks proper ; except that
he shall not make any distribution among the creditors or
stockholders, before final judgment, unless he is specially
directed so to do by the court.
§ 1 700. Where the action is brought by a creditor of
a corporation, and the stockholders, directors, trustees, or
other officers, or any of them, are made liable by law, in
any event or contingency, for the payment of his debt, the
persons, so made liable, may be made parties defendant, by
the original or by a supplemental complaint ; and their lia
bility may be declared and enforced by the judgment in
the action.
•
§ 1791. Where the stockholders, directors, trustees, or
other officers of a corporation, who are made liable, in any
event or contingency, for the payment of a debt, are not
made parties defendant, as prescribed in the last section,
the plaintifff in the action may maintain a separate action
against them to procure a judgment, declaring, apportioning
and enforcing their liability.
§ 1792. In an action, brought as prescribed in either of
the last two sections, the court must, when it is necessary,
cause an account to be taken of the property and of the
debts of the corporation, and thereupon the defendants'
liability must be apportioned accordingly; but, if it affirm
atively appears, that the corporation is insolvent, and has no
property to satisfy its creditors, the court may, without
taking such an account, ascertain and determine the amount
of each defendant's liability, and enforce the same ac
cordingly.
6 Civ. Pro.
§ 1793. A final judgment in an action, brought against
90.
a corporation, as prescribed in this article, either separately
or in conjunction with its stockholders, directors, trustees,
or other officers, must provide for a just and fair distribu
tion of the property of the corporation, and of the proceeds
thereof, among its fair and honest creditors, in the order
and in the proportion prescribed by law, in case of the
voluntary dissolution of a corporation.
§ 1794. Where the stockholders of the corporation are
parties to (he action, if the property of the corporation is
not sufficient to discharge its debts, the interlocutory or final
judgment, as the case requires, must adjudge that each
stockholder pay into court the amount due and remaining
unpaid on the shares of stock held by him, or so much thereof as is necessary to satisfy the debts of the corpo
ration.
§ 1795. If it appears, that the property of the corpo
ration, and the sums collected or collectible from the stock
holders, upon their stock subscriptions, are or will be in
sufficient to pay the debts of the corporation, the court
must ascertain the several sums, for which the directors,
trustees, or other officers, or the stockholders of the corpo
ration, being parties to the action, are liable; and must ad
judge that the same be paid into court, to be applied, in
such proportions and in such order as justice requires, to
the payment of the debts of the corporation.
§ 1796. This article does not repeal or affect any special
provision of law, prescribing that a particular kind of cor
poration shall cease to exist, or shall be dissolved, in a care
or in a manner, not prescribed in this article ; or any special
provision of law, prescribing the mode of enforcing the lia
bility of the stockholders of a particular kind of corpora
tion.
§ 1797. The Attorney-General, whenever he is so direct
ed by the legislature, must bring an action against a corpora
tion created by or under the laws of the State, to procure a
judgment, vacating or annulling the act of incorporation,
or any act renewing the corporation, or continuing its cor
porate existence, upon the ground that the act was procured
upon a fraudulent suggestion, or the concealment of a ma
terial fact, made by or with the knowledge and consent of
any of the persons incorporated.
§ 1798. Upon leave bev.g granted, as prescribed in the mN.Y.582.
next section, the Attorney General may bring an action
against a corporation created by or under the laws of the
State, to procure a judgment, vacating the charter or an
nulling the existence of the corporation, upon the ground
that it has, either
1. Offended against any provision of an act, by or under
which it was created, altered, or renewed, or an act amend
ing the same, and applicable to the corporation ; or,
2. Violated any provision of law, whereby it has forfeited
its charter, or become liable to be dissolved, by the abuse of
its powers; or,
3. Forfeited its privileges or franchises, by a failure to
exercise its powers ; or
4. Done or omitted any act, which amounts to a sur
render of its corporate rights, privileges, and franchises; or,
5. Exercised a privilege or franchise, not conferred upon
it by law.
§ 1799. Before granting leave, the court may, in its
discretion, require such previous notice of the application as
it thinks proper, to be given to the corporation, or any of
ficer thereof, and may hear the corporation in opposition
thereto.
§ 1800. An action, brought as prescribed in this article,
is triable, of course and of right, by a jury, as if it was an
action specified in section nine hundred and sixty-eight of
this act, and without procuring an order, as prescribed in
section nine hundred and seventy of this act.
§ 1801. Where any of the matters, specified in section
one thousand sercn hundred and ninety-seven or section one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-eight of this act, are
established in an action, brough* as prescribed in either of
those sections, the court may render final judgment that the
corporation and each officer thereof, be perpetually enjoined
from exercising any of its corporate rights, privileges, and
franchises; and that it be dissolved. The judgment mustalso
provide for the appointment of a receiver, the taking of an
account, and the distribution of the property of the corpo
ration, among its creditors and stockholders, as where a cor
poration is dissolved upon its voluntary application, as pre
scribed in chapter seventeenth of this act.
§ 1802. In an action, brought as prescribed in this
article, an injunction order may be granted, at any stage of
the action, restraining the corporation, and any or all of its
directors, trustees, and other officers, from exercising any
of its corporate rights, privileges, or franchises ; or from
exercising certain of its corporate rights, privileges, or
franchises specified in the injunction order ; or from exer
cising any franchise, liberty, or privilege, or transacting
any business, not allowed by law. Such an injunction is
deemed one of those specified in section six hundred and
three of this act, and all the provisions of title second of
chapter seventh of this act, applicable to an injunction
specified in that section, apply to an injunction granted as
prescribed in this section, except that it can be granted only
by the court.
§ 1803. Where final judgment is rendered against n,
corporal inn, in an action, brought as prescribed in thin
article, the Attorney-General must cause a copy of the judg
ment-roll to be forthwith filed in the office of the secretary
of State; who must ause n, notice of the substance and
effect of the judgment, to be published, for four weeks, in
the newspaper printed at Albany, in which legal notices
are required to be published, and also in a newspaper
printed in the county, wherein the principal place of busi
ness of the corporation was located.
§ 1804. Articles second, third, and fourth of this title
do not apply to an incorporated library society ; to a
religious corporation ; to a select school or academy, incor
porated by the regents of the university, or by an act of
the legislature ; or to a municipal or other political corpo
ration, created by the constitution, or by or under the laws
of the State.
§ 1805. In an action, brought as prescribed in article
second, third, or fourth of this title, a stockholder, officer,
alienee, or agent of a corporation, is not excused from
answering a question, relating to the management of the
corporation, or the transfer or disposition of its property,
on the ground that his answer may expose the corporation
to a forfeiture of an}' of its corporate rights, or will tend
to convict him of a criminal offense, or to subject him to a
penalty or forfeiture. But his testimony shall not be used,
as evidence against him, in a criminal action or special
proceeding.
§ 1806. In such an action, the court may, in its dis- Sinnn, 32fl.
cretion, on the application of either party, at any stage of
the action, before or after final judgment, and with or
without security, grant an injunction order, restraining the
creditors of the corporation from bringing actions against
the defendants, or any of them, for the recovery of a sum
of money, or from taking any further proceedings in such
actions, theretofore commenced. Such an injunction has
the same effect, and, except as otherwise expressly pre
scribed in this section, is subject to the same provisions of
law, as if each creditor, upon whom it is served, was named
therein, and was a party to the action in which it is
granted.
§1807. [Am'd 1886.] In such an action the court may,
at any stage cl the action, before or after final judgment,
make an order requiring all the creditors of the corporation
to exhibit and prove their claims, and thereby make them
selves parties to the act:— in such a manner and in such a reasonable time, not less than six months from the first pub
lication of notice of the order as the court directs ; and that
the creditors who make default in so doing shall be pre
cluded from all benefit of the judgment and from any dis
tribution which may be made thereunder, except as herein
after provided. Notice of the order mutt be given, by
publication, in such newspapers and for such a length of
time as the court directs. Notwithstanding such order any
such creditor who shall exhibit and prove his claim in the
manner directed thereby, with proof, by affidavit or other
wise, that be has had no notice or knowledge thereof in
time to comply therewith, any time before an order is made
directing a final distribution of the assets of such corpora
tion, shall be entitled to have his claim received, and shall
have the same rights and benefits thereon, so far as the
assets of such corporation then remaining undistributed may
render possible, as if his claim had been exhibited and
proved within the time limited by such order.
§ 1808. "Where the Attorney-General has good reason
to believe, that an action can be maintained in behalf of the
people of the State, as prescribed in article second, third, or
fourth of this title, except section one thousand seven hun
dred and ninety-seven of this act, he must bring an action
accordingly, or apply to a competent court for leave to bring
an action, as the case requires ; if, in his opinion, the pub
lic interests require that an action should be brought. In a
case where the action can be brought only by the AttorneyGeneral in behalf of the people, if a creditor, stockholder,
director, or trustee of the corporation, applies to the Attor
ney-General for that purpose, and furnishes the security
required by law, the Attorney-General must bring the action,
or apply for leave to bring it, if he has good reason to believe
that it can be maintained. Where such an application
is made, section one thousand nine hundred and eighty-six
of this act applies thereto, and to the action brought in
pursuance thereof.
Bi N. T.
§ 1809. An injunction order, suspending the general
Super. Ct. and ordinary business of a corporation, or of a joint-stock
ia'*Sy 238' association, consisting of seven or more persons, orsuspendState Rep. ing from office, or restraining from the performance of his
883. duties, a trustee, director, or other officer thereof, can be
granted only by the court, upon notice of the application
therefore, to the proper officer of the corporation or associa
tion, or to the trustee, director, or other officer enjoined.
If such an injunction order is made, otherwise than as pre
scribed in this section, it is void.
60 How Pr
§ 1810. A receiver of the property of a corporation can
Y>:i.
be'appointed only by the court, and in one of the following
« Civ. Pro. cases :
• ,„
1. An action, brought as prescribed in article second, third,
or fourth, of this title.
2. An action brought for the foreclosure of a mortgage
upon the property, of which the receiver is appointed , where
the mortgage debt, or the interest thereupon, lias remained
unpaid, at least thirty days after it was payable, and after
payment thereof was duly demanded of the proper officer of
the corporation ; and where either the income of the prop
erty is specifically mortgaged, or the property itself is prob
ably insufficient to pay the mortgage debt.
3. An action brought by the Attorney-General, or by a
stockholder, to preserve the assets of a corporation, having
no officer empowered to hold the same.
4. A special proceeding for the voluntary dissolution of.
a corporation.
Where the receiver is appointed in an action, otherwise
than by or pursuant to a final judgment, notice of the appli
cation for his appointment, must be given to the proper
officer of the corporation.
§ 1811. A trustee, director, or other officer of a corpo
ration shall not be suspended or removed from office, by a
court or judge, otherwise than by the final judgment of a
competent court, in an action brought by the Attorney-Gen
eral, as prescribed in section one thousand seven hundred
and eighty-one of this act.
§ 1812. The last three sections apply to an action or a
Bpecial proceeding, against a corporation, or joint-stock as
sociation, created by or under the laws of the State, or a
trustee, director, or other officer thereof ; or against a cor
poration, or joint-stock association created by or under the
laws of another state, government, or country, or a trustee,
director, or other officer thereof, where the corporation or
association does business within the State, or has, within
the State, a business agency or a fiscal agency, or an agency
for the transfer of its stock.
§ 1813. Where an action, authorized by a law of the
State, is brought against one or more persons, as stock
holders of a corporation or joint-stock association, an objec
tion to any of the proceedings cannot be taken, by a person
properly made a defendant in the action, on the ground
that the plaintifff has joined with him, as a defendant in the
action, a person, whose name appears on the stock-books of
the corporation or association, as a stockholder thereof, by
the name so appearing ; but who is misnamed, or dead, or
is not liable for any cause. In such a case, the court may,
at any time before final judgment, upon motion of either
party, amend the pleadings and other papers, without prej
udice to the previous proceedings, by substituting the true
name of the person intended, or by striking out the name
of the person who is dead, or not liable, and, in a proper
case, inserting the name of his representative or successor.
§ 1814. An action or special proceeding, hereafter cornDig, lw.
menced by an executor or administrator, upon a cause of
?of?'i Y°i5 action, belonging to him in his representative capacity, or
1U5 id. 453. ' an action or special proceeding, hereafter commenced
against him, except where it is brought to charge him
personally, must be brought by or against him in his rep
resentative capacity. A judgment, in an action hereafter
commenced, recovered against an executor or administra
tor, without describing him in his representative capacity,
cannot be enforced against the property of the decedent,
except by the special direction of the court, contained
therein.
§ 1815. An action may he brought against an executor
or administrator, personally, and also in his representative
capacity, in either of the following cases :
1. Where the complaint sets forth a cause of action
against him in both capacities, or states facts, which render
it uncertain, in which capacity the cause of action exists
against him.
2. Where the complaint sets forth two or more muses of
action against the defendant, in different capacities, all of
which grow out of the same transaction, or transactions
connected with the same subject of action ; do not require
different places or modes of trial ; and are not inconsistent
with each other.
In a case specified in this section, a judgment for the
plaintifff for a sum of money must distinctly show, whether
it is awarded against the defendant personally, or in his
representative capacity.
§ 1816. In a case specified in the last section, or where
costs, to be collected out of the individual property of an
executor or administrator, are awarded in an action by or
against him in his representative capacity, so much of the
judgment, as awards a sum of money against him per
sonally, may be separately docketed, and a separate exe
cution may be issued thereupon, as if the judgment con
tained no award against him iu his representative capacity.
§ 1817. In an action or special proceeding against two IN Abb. N.
or more executors or administrators, representing the same C. 831.
decedent, all ate considered as one person ; and those who
are fir.-t served with process, or first appear, must answer
the plaintifff. Separate answers, by different executors or
administrators, cannot be required or allowed, except by
direction of the court. Judgment in favor of the plaintifff
may be entered, and, in a proper case, execution may be
issued, against all the defendants, as if all had appeared.
But this section docs not affect the plaintifff's right to bring
into court all the executors or administrators, who are
parties.
§1818. Oneof two or more executors, to whom letters
testamentary have not been issued, is not a necessary party
to an action or special proceeding, in favor of or against the
executors, in their representative capacity.
§ 1819. If, after the expiration of one year from the 3 Dem. 30.
Week.
granting of letters testamentary or letters of administration, 24
Dig. 543.
an executor or administrator refuses, upon demand, to pay 41
Hun, Silt.
a legacy, or distributive share, the person entitled thereto 6 Dem. 893.
may maintain such an action against him, as the case •Zl Abb. N.
419.
requires. But for the purpose of computing the time, C.
1 Conn. 333.
within which such an action must be commenced, the 11IN.Y.204.
cause of action is deemed to accrue, when the executor's
or administrator's account is judicially settled, and not
before.
§ 1820. The guardian ad litem of an infant, in whose
favor an action is brought, as prescribed in the last section,
must, unless he is also the general guardian, execute and
file with the clerk, before the commencement of the action,
a bond to the infant, with at least two sufficient sureties, in
a penalty fixed by a judge of the court, conditioned that the
-^ .
guardian will duly account to the infant, when he attains full age, or, in case of his death, to his personal representa
tives, for all money or property, which the guardian may
receive, by reason of the legacy or distributive share.
§ 1821. A final judgment against an heir or devisee,
bars an action against the executor or administrator of the
decedent, for the same cause, and every other remedy to
enforce payment thereof out of the decedent's property ;
uidess an execution against property, issued upon the judg
ment, has been returned wholly or partly unsatisfied, or
sufficient real property to satisfy the judgment has not
descended, or been devised, to the judgment debtor. But, if
the judgment was recovered for a debt or legacy, expressly
charged upon the estate descended or devised, the bar is
absolute.
4Dem. ire.
§ 1822. [Am'd 1882.] "Where an executor or adminis51 Hun, 194. tra(or disputes or rejects a claim against the estate of the
decedent, exhibited to him either before or after the com
mencement, of the publication of a notice requiring the
presentation of claims, as prescribed by law, unless the
claim is referred, as prescribed by law, the claimant must
commence an action, for the recovery thereof against the
executor or administrator, within six months after the
dispute or rejection, or, if no part of the debt is then due,
within six months after a part thereof becomes due ; in
default whereof, he, and all persons claiming under him,
are forever barred from maintaining such an action there
upon, and from every other remedy to enforce payment
thereof out of the decedent's property.
The amendment made to section eighteen hundred and
twenty-two shall not apply when letters have been issued
to one or more executors or administrators before this act
takes effect ; nor shall any amendment, made by this act,
invalidate, or impair the effect of any proceedings heretofore
taken .
35 Hun, 63V.
§ 1823. Real property, which belonged to a decedent, is
lJLCiV' Pro- not bound, or in any way affected, by a judgment against
his executor or administrator, and is not liable to be sold
by virtue of an execution issued upon such a judgment,
unless the judgment is expressly made, by its terms, a lien
upon specific real property therein described, or expressly
directs the sale thereof.
§ 1824. In an action against an executor or adminis
trator, in his representative capacity, wherein the complaint
demands judgment for a sum of money, the existence, suf
ficiency, or want of assets, shall not be pleaded by either
party ; and the plaintifff's right of recovery is not affected
thereby, except with respect to the costs to be awarded, a-s
prescribed by law. A judgment in such an action, is not
evidence of assets in the defendant's hands.
VDem. 36.
§ 1825. An execution shall not be issued, upon a judg"M-2^*.
ment for a sum of money, against an executor or administrator, in his representative capacity, until an order, per
mitting it to be issued, has been made by the surrogate,
from whose court the letters were issued. Such an order
must specify the sum to be collected ; and the execution
must be indorsed with a direction to collect that sum.
§ 1826. At least six days' notice of the application for 2 I)em. 219.
an order specified in the last seel ion, must be personally l conn, sat
served upon the executor oradministrator, unless it appears
that service cannot be so made with duo diligence; in
which case, notice must be given to such persons, and in
such manner, as the surrogate directs, by an order to show
cause why the application should not be granted. Where
it appears that the assets, after payment of all sums charge
able against them for expenses, and for claims entitled to
priority as against the plaintifff, are not, or will not be, suf
ficient to pay all the debts, legacies, or other claims of the
class to which the plaintifff's claim belongs, the sum. di
rected to be collected by the execution, shall not exceed the
plaintifff's just proportion of the assets. In that case, one
or more orders may be afterwards made in like manner,
and one or more executions may be afterwards issued,
whenever it appears that the sum, directed to be collected
by the first execution, is less than the plaintifff's just pro
portion.
§ 1827. Where a judgment has been rendered against
an executor or administrator, for a legacy or distributive
share, the surrogate, before granting an order, permitting
an execution to be issued thereupon, may, and, in a proper
case, must, require the applicant to file in his office, aD un
dertaking to the defendant, in such a sum, and with such
sureties, as the surrogate directs, to the effect, that if, after
collection of any sum of money by virtue of the execution,
the remaining assets are not sufficient to pay all sums, for
which the defendant is chargeable, for expenses, claims
entitled to priority as against ihe applicant, and the other
legacies or distributive shares, of the class to which the
applicant's claim belongs, tha plaintifff will refund to the
defendant, the sum so collected, or such ratable part
thereof, with the other legatees or representatives of the
same class, as is necessary to make up the deficiency.
§ 1828. An executor, administrator, or a person ap
pointed by the surrogate, as prescribed in chapter eighteenth
of this act, to dispose of the real property of a decedent,
is deemed a trustee, appointed by virtue of a statute, within
the meaning of that expression, as used in section seven
hundred and sixty-six of this act.
§ 1829. An execution may be issued, in the name of an
executor or administrator, in his representative capacity,
upon a judgment recovered by any person who preceded
him in the administration of the same estate, in any case
where it might have been issued in favor of the original
plaintifff, and without a substitution.
§ 1830. If an executor or administrator is defendant in
an action or special proceeding, pending when his powers
cease, the plaintifff may, in a proper case, proceed therein
against him, to charge him personally; but a judgment or
other determination, thereafter rendered or made against
him, is not of any force, as against the estate of the de
cedent, or a person succeeding to the administration
thereof.
^ 1831. An executor or administrator cannot be made
personally liable to the adverse party, for a debt or for dam
ages, by reason of his having made a false allegation in
pleading.
§ 1832. In an action or special proceeding, to which an
executor or administrator is a party, wherein the question,
whether he has administered the estate of the decedent, or
any part thereof, is in issue, or is the subject of inquiry,
and the inventory of assets, filed by him, is given in evi
dence, either party may rebut the same, by proof, either :
1. That any property was omitted in the inventory, or
was not returned therein at its true value ; or,
2. That any property has perished, or has been lost,
without the fault of the executor or administrator ; or has
been fairly sold by him, at private or public sale, at a less
price than the value so returned ; or that, since the return
of the inventory, it has deteriorated or enhanced in value.
§ 1833. In such an action or special proceeding, the
executor or administrator shall not be charged with a de
mand or right of action, included in the inventory, unless it
appears that the same has been collected, or might have been
collected, with due diligence.
§ 1834. The last two sections do not vary any rule of
evidence, respecting any proof, which an executor or admin
istrator may now make.
§ 1836. Where a judgment for a sum of money only is
rendered against an executor or administrator, in an action
brought against him in his representative capacity, costs
shall not be awarded against him, except as prescribed in
the next section.
§ 1836. Where it appears, in a case specified in the last
section, that the plaintifff's demand was presented within the
time limited by a notice, published as prescribed bylaw,
requiring creditors to present their claims; and that the
payment thereof was unreasonably resisted or neglected,
or t'lat ,ae defendant refused to refer the claim, as pre
scribed by law ; the court may award costs against the ex
ecutor or administrator, to be collected, either out of his
individual property, or out of the property of the decedent,
as the court directs, having reference to the facts which
appeared upon the trial. Where the action is brought in
the supreme court, or in a superior city court, the facts
§ 1837. An action may be maintained, as prescribed in
this article, against the surviving husband or wife of a de
cedent, and the next of kin of an intestate, or the next of
kin or legatees of a testator, to recover, to the extent of the
assets paid or distributed to them, for a debt of the dece
dent, upon which an action might have been maintained
against the executor or administrator. The neglect of the
creditor to present his claim to the executor or administrator,
within the time prescribed by law for that purpose, does not
impair his right to maintain such an action.
§ 1838. An action, specified in the last section, must be
brought, either jointly against the surviving husband or
wife, and all the legatees, or all the next of kin, as the case
maybe, or, at the plaintifff's election, against one of them
only. But where a legacy is received by two or more per
sons jointly, they are deemed one legatee, within the mean
ing of each provision of this article, relating to legatees.
§ 1839. Where a joint action is brought, as prescribed
in the last section, the whole sum, which the plaintifff is en
titled to recover, must be apportioned among the defend
ants, in proportion to the legacy or distributive share, as
the case may be, received by each of them ; and the final
judgment must award, against each defendant separately,
the proportionate sum thus ascertained. The costs of the
action, if the plaintifff is entitled to costs, must be appor
tioned in like manner ; except that the expenses of serving the summons upon each defendant must be taxed against
him only ; and one sheriff's fee, for returning an execution,
may be taxed against each defendant, against whom any
sum is awarded.
§ 1840. Where an action is brought against the surviv
ing husband or wife only, or against one only of the next
of kin, or legatees, the sum, which the plaintifff is entitled
to recover, cannot exceed the sum which he would have
been entitled to recover from the same defendant, in an
action brought, as prescribed in the last section.
§ 1841. If the action is brought against a legatee, or
against all the legatees, the plaintifff must show, either
1. That no assets were delivered by the executor or ad
ministrator of the decedent, to the surviving husband or
wife, or next of kiu ; or
2. That the value of assets, so delivered, has been recov
ered by some other creditor ; or
3. That those assets, after payment of the expenses of
administration and preferred demands, are not sufficient to
satisfy the demand of the plaintifff ; in which case, he can
recov t only for the deficiency.
§ 1842. "Where some of the legatees are preferred to
others, an action may be maintained, as prescribed in the
last five sections, against one or all of those who are equally
preferred or equally deferred, as if the legatees of that class
were all the legatees. But where it is brought against a
preferred legatee, or a class of preferred legatees, the plain
tiff must show, in addition to the matters, with respect to
the next of kin, required by the provisions of the last sec
tion, the same matters, with respect to each legatee, or class
of legatees, to whom the defendant or defendants are pre
ferred.
104N.Y.179.
§ 1843. The heirs of an intestate, and the heirs and de
ne id. 144. visees of a testator, are respectively liable for the debts of
the decedent, arising by simple contract, or by specialty, to
the extent of the estate, interest, and right in the real prop
erty, which descended to them from, or was effectually de
vised to them by, the decedent.
§ 1844. But an action, to enforce the liability declared
in the last section, cannot be maintained, except in one of
the following cases :
1. Where three years have elapsed since the death of the
decedent, and no letters testamentary, or letters of adminis
tration, upon his estate, have been granted within the State.
2. Where three years have elapsed, since letters testa
mentary, or letters of administration, upon his estate, were
granted, within the State.
§ 1845. Where it appears that, at the time of the com
mencement of such an action, a petition, seasonably pre
sented as prescribed by law, praying for a decree to dispose
of real property of the decedent, for the payment of his debts, was pending in a surrogate's court having jurisdic
tion, the proceedings in the action, subsequent to the com
plaint, must be stayed by the court, until the petition is
disposed of, unless the plaintifff elects to discontinue. If a
decree to dispose of real property, pursuant to the prayer
of the petition, is granted, the action must be dismissed,
unless the plaintifff has alleged in his complaint, or alleges
in a supplemental complaint, that real property, other than
that included in the decree, descended or was devised to the
defendants. If the plaintifff elects to proceed under such
an allegation, he is entitled to a preference in payment, out
of the real property, with respect to which the allegation is
made ; but he cannot share, as a creditor, in the distribu
tion of the money, arising from the disposal of the real
property, described in the decree ; and the judgment in the
action does not charge, or in any way affect, that property.
§ 1 846. An action against heirs or devisees, brought as
prescribed in the last three sections, must be brought jointly
against all the heirs, to whom any real property descended
from the decedent, or jointly against all the devisees, as the
case may be.
§ 1847. In such an action, the sum, which the plaintifff
is entitled to recover, for damages and costs, must be ap
portioned among all the defendants, in proportion to the
value of the real property descended to each heir, or devised
to each devisee, as the case may be, as prescribed in section
one thousand eight hundred and thirty-nine of this act, for
a similar apportionment among legatees or next of kin, in
proportion to the assets received by them. The final
judgment must, in like manner, award against each de
fendant the proportionate sum, with which he is charge
able.
§ 1848. Where the action is brought against heirs, the 18 Abb.
plaiutiff must show, either
C. 142.
1. That the decedent's assets, if any, within the State,
where not sufficient to pay the plaintifff's debt, in addition
to the expenses of administration, and debts of a prior class ;
or
2. That the plaintifff has been unable, or will be unable,
with due diligence, to collect his debt, by proceedings in
the proper surrogate's court, and by action against the ex
ecutor or administrator, and against the surviving husband
or wife, legatees, and next of kin.
The executor's or administrator's account, as rendered to,
and settled by, the surrogate, may be used as presumptive
evidence of any of the facts, required to be shown by this
section.
§ 1849. Where the action is brought against devisees,
the plaintifff must show, in addition to the matters specified
in the last section, either that the real property of the de
cedent, which descended to his heirs, was not sufficient to pay the plaintifff's debt, or that the plaintifff has been un
able, or will be unable, with due diligence, to collect his
debt by an action against the heirs.
§ 1850. Where the assets, applicable to the plaintifffs
debt, were sufficient to pay a part thereof, or a part thereof
has been collected from the executor or administrator, oi
from the surviving husband or wife, next of kin, or lega
tees, the plaintifff can recover only for the residue, remain
ing unpaid or uncollected ; and if the action is against
devisees, he can recover only for the residue, which the real
estate descended, or the amount of his recovery against
the heirs, is insufficient to discharge.
§ 1851. The complaint must describe, with common cer
tainty the real property, descended or devised to the de
fendant ; and must specify its value.
§ 1852. If it, appears that any of the real property, which
descended or was devised to a defendant, had not been
aliened by him at the time of the commencement of the
action, the final judgment must direct, that the debt of the
plaintifff, or the proportion thereof which he is entitled to
recover against that defendant, be collected out of that real
property. Such a judgment is preferred, as a lien upon
that property, to a judgment obtained against the defend
ant, for his individual debt or demand.
§ 1853. But a judgment, rendered as prescribed in the
last section, does not bind, and the execution thereupon
cannot in any way affect, the title of a purchaser, in good
faith and for value, acquired before a notice of the pen
dency of the action is filed, or final judgment is entered,
and the judgment-roll filed.
§ 1854. If it appears that, before the commencement of
the action, or afterwards and before the filing of a notice of
the pendency of the action, the defendant aliened the real
property descended or devised to him, or any part thereof,
the plaintifff may, at his election, take a final judgment
against him for the value of the property so aliened, or so
much thereof as may be necessary, as in an action for the
defendant's own debt.
18 Abb. N.
§ 1855. Where the surviving husband or wife, next of
C. 143.
kin, legatees, heirs, or devisees, are liable for demands
against the decedent, as prescribed in this article, they must
give preference in the payment thereof, and they are so
liable therefore, in the order prescribed by law, for the pay
ment of debts by an executor or administrator. Preference
of payment cannot be given to a demand, over another of
the same (-lass, except where a similar preference by an ex
ecutor or administrator is allowed by law. The commence
ment, of an action, under any provision of this article, does
not entitle the plaintifff's demand to preference over another
of the same class, except as otherwise specially prescribed
by law.
5 1866. Where it appear*. ™ *B "Oson hroucht os pnescrir>ed in this article, that there are unsatisfied demands
a<rain*t the decedent's- esia*. of » <la« prior wj tint of the
Dfaiiitiffs demand, *t defends.ni h. emuri to judgment,
if the value of the properly, nhki was. received, devised.
or inherited, as the case muy be. by the class to which he
belongs does ik* exceed the amount of ine vaiid demands
of a prior class. If it exceeds ibe amojnl of those demands,
the iudwment ajzainst the defendant cannot exceed such a
DrODOrt7on of tne plaintifff'- demand, a- the total amount of
the valid demands Of hi» class bears to die excess.
6 1857. Where a defendant, or a person belonging to his
class has paid a demand against the decedent's estate, of a
class' prior to that of the plaintifff? demand, or has paid a
demand of the same class, the amount of the demand so
naid must be estimated, in ascertaining the amount to be
recovered, as if it was outstanding and unpaid.
§ 1858. An action against heirs or devisees, brought as
prescribed in this article, is not delayed, nor is the remedy
of the plaintifff suspended, by reason of the infancy of any
of the parties ; except that an execution shall net be issued
aeainst an infant heir or devisee, until the expiration of
one year after final judgment is rendered, and the judg
ment-roll filed.
8 1869. This article does not affect the liability of an
heir or devisee, for a debt of a testator, where the will ex
pressly charges the debt exclusively upon the real property
descended of devised, or makes.it payable exclusively by
the heir or devisee, or out of the real property descended
or devised, before resorting to the personal property, or to
any other real property descended or devised.
§ 1880. Where a person, who takes real property of a
decedent by devise, and also by descent ; or who takes per
sonal property as next of kin, and also as legatee ; or who
takes both real and personal property in either capacity ;
or who is executor or administrator, and also takes in either
of the before mentioned capacities ; would be liable, in one
capacity, for a demand against the decedent, after the ex
haustion' of the remedy against him in another capacity ;
the plaintifff, in any action to charge him, which can be
maintained, without joining with him any other person,
except a person whose liability is in all respects the same,
may recover any sum, for which he is liable, although the
remedy a"»inst him in another capacity was not exhausted.
But this section does not increase the sum, which the
plaintifff is entitled to recover against him, in the capacity
in which he is actually liable ; nor does it charge a defend
ant individually, who is liable only in a representative
capacity.
§ 1861. An action to procure a judgment, establishing
a will, may be maintained, by any person interested in the
establishment thereof, in either of the following cases :
1. Where a will of real or personal property, or both, has
been executed, in such a manner and under such circum
stances, that it might, under the laws of the State, be ad
mitted to probate in a surrogate's court ; but the original
will is in another state or country, under such circum
stances that it cannot be obtained for that purpose ; or has
been lost or destroyed, by accident or design, before it was
duly proved, and recorded within the State.
2. Where a will of personal property, made by a person,
who resided without the State, at the time of the execution
thereof, or at the time of his death, has been duly executed,
according to the laws of the state or country in which it
was executed, or in which the testator resided at the time
of his death, and the case is not one, where the will can lie
admitted to probate in a surrogate's court, under the laws
of the State.
§ 1862. If, in such an action, the facts necessary to estab
lish the validity of the will, as prescribed in the last sec
tion, are satisfactorily proved, final judgment must he
rendered, establishing the will accordingly. But where
the will of a person, who was a resident of the State at the
time of his death, is established as prescribed in the last
section, the judgment establishing it does not affect the
construction or validity of any provision contained therein ;
and such a question arising with respect to any provision,
must be determined in the same action, or in another ac
tion or a special proceeding, as the case requires, as if the
vnll was executed within the State.
§ 1863. Where the parties to the action, who have ap
peared or have been duly summoned, include all the per
sons, who would be necessary parties to a special proceed
ing, in a surrogate's court, for the probate of the same
will and the grant of letters thereupon, if the circumstances
were such that it could have been proved in a surrogate's
court, ; the final judgment, rendered as prescribed in the
last section, must direct, that an exemplified copy thereof
be transmitted to the surrogate having jurisdiction, and be
recorded in his office ; and that letters testamentary, or
letters of administration with the will annexed, be issued thereupon from his court, in the same manner, and with
like effect, as upon a wiH duly proved in that court
§ 1864. A copy of the will so established, or, if it is
lost or destroyed, the sul>stauce thereof, must be incorpo
rated inio a tiual judgment, rendered as prescribed in the
last section ; and the surrogate must record the same, and
issue letters thereupon, as directed in the judgment.
§ 1865. But the plaintifff is not entitled to a judgment,
establishing a lost or destroyed will, as prescribed in this
article, unless the will was in existence, at the time of the
testator's death, or was fraudulently destroyed in his life
time ; and its provisions are clearly and distinctly proved
by at le.ist two credible witnesses, a correct copy or draft
being equivalent to one witness.
§ 1866. The validity, construction or effect, under the
laws of the State, of a testamentary disposition of real
property situated within the State, or of an interest in such
property, which would descend to the heir of an intestate,
may be determined, in an action brought for that purpose,
in like maner as the validity of a deed, purporting to con
vey land, may be determined. The judgment in such an
action may perpetually enjoin any party, from setting up
or from impeaching the devise or otherwise making any
claim in contravention to the determination of the court, as
justice requires. But this section does not appiy to a case,
where the question in controversy is determined by the
decree of a surrogate's court, duly rendered upon allega
tions for that purpose, as prescribed in article first of title
third of chapter eighteenth of this act, where the plaintifff
was duly cited, in the special proceeding in the surrogate's
court, before the commencement of the action.
§ 1867. The provisions of this article apply as well to
wills' made before as to those made after, this article takes
effect.
§ 1868. A child, born after the making of a will, who
is entitled to succeed to a part of the real or personal prop
erty of the testator, or a subscribing witness to a will, who
is entitled to succeed to a share of such property, may
maintain an action against the legatees or devisees, as the
case requires, to recover his share of the property ; and he
is subject to the same liabilities, and has the same rights,
and is entitled to the same remedies, to compel a distribu
tion or partition of the property, or a contribution from
other persons interested in the estate, or to gain possession
of the property, as any other person who is so entitled to
succeed.
§ 1869. Where the estate of a decedent has been
brought under the jurisdiction of the supreme court, or of
a superior city court, by an action for partition or distribu
tion, or for the construction or establishment of a will, the
court may, upon the death of the sole surviving executor,
appoint a receiver of the estate, pending the action, upon
such terms and conditions, and upon such notice to the
parties interested, as the court directs, and upen such secur
ity, if any, as to the court seems proper. For the purpose
of carrying into effect the judgment and order3 of the
court, in relation to the estate, a receiver so appointed is the
successor in interest of the surviving executor ; and has,
subject to the direction of the court, the like power, as an
administrator with the will annexed.
§ 1870. The term, " next of kin," ss used in this title,
includes all those entitled, under the provisions of law relating to the distribution of personal property, to share in
the unbequeathed assets of a decedent, after payment of
debts and expenses, other than a surviving husband or
wife.
§ 1871. Where an execution, against the property of a
*o Week.
judgment debtor, issued out of a court of record, as pre?'h4' "i sc"°ed in the next
section, has been returned
"'
wholly or partly unsatisfied, the judgment creditor may
maintain an action against the judgment debtor, and any '
other person, to compel the discovery of any thing in
action, or other property belonging to the judgment debtor,
and of any money, thing in action, or other property due
to him, or held in trust for him ; to prevent the transfer
thereof, or the payment or delivery thereof, to him, or to
any other person ; and to procure satisfaction of the plain
tiff's demand, as prescribed in the next section but one.
Where the execution was issued as prescribed in section one
thousand nine hundred and thirty-four of this act, and a defendant not summoned in the original action is made a
defendant in an action brought under this section, personal
property, owned by him jointly with the defendants sum
moned or with any of them, may be applied to the satis
faction of the plaintifff's demand as prescribed in this
article.
§ 1872. To entitle the judgment creditor to maintain an
action as prescribed in the last section, the execution must
have been issued as follows :
1. If, at the time of the commencement of the action,
the judgment debtor is a resident of the State, to the
sheriff of the county where he resides.
2. If he is not then a resident of the State, to the sheriff
of the county where he has an office, for the regular trans
action of business in person ; or, if he has no such office
within the State, to the sheriff of the county where the
judgment-roll is filed, unless the execution was issued out
of a court, other than the court in which the judgment
was rendered ; in which case, it must have been issued to the
sheriff of the county where a transcript of the judgment
is filed.
§ 1873. The final judgment in the action must direct
and provide for the satisfaction of the sum due to the plain
tiff, out of any money, tiling in action, or other personal
property, belonging to, or due to the judgment debtor, or
held in trust for him, which is discovered in the action ;
whether the same might or might not have been originally
taken, by virtue of an execution.
§ 1874. The final judgment in the action must also
direct and provide for the satisfaction of the sum due to
the plaintifff, out of the interest, if any, of the judgment
debtor, in a contract for the purchase of teal property by
him ; either by selling the interest, or by transferring it to
the judgment creditor, in such a manner and upon such
terms, as the court deems most conducive to the interests of
the parties. Where the person, bound to perform the con
tract to the judgment debtor, is a defendant in the action,
the final judgment may direct a specific performance of
the contract to the judgment creditor, or. where the inter
est in the contract is directed to be sold, to the purchaser.
§ 1875. In a case specified in the last section, the value
of the interest of the judgment debtor holding the contract
must be ascertained, under the direction of the court ; and
so much thereof as is necessary must be applied to the pay
ment of Hie sum due lo Ihe plaintifff, and the residue, if
any, lo the beni tit of Ihe judgment debtor.
§ 1876. A temporary injunction, restraining the transfer
to any person, or the payment or delivery to the judgment
debtor, of any money, thing in action, or other property or
.interest, which may, by the provisions of this article, be
applied to the satisfaction of the sum due to the plaintifff, may be granted in the action. The injunction, and ths
proceeding before and after it is granted, are governed by
the provisions of article first of title second of chapter
seventh for this act ; for which purpose, the injunction is
deemed to be one of those specified in section six hundred
and three of this act.
§ 1877. The court may, by an order, or by the inter
locutory or final judgment in the action, appoint a receiver
of any or all of the property of the judgment debtor ; and
may direct the judgment debtor, or any other defendant in
the action, to convey or deliver to the receiver, as justice
requires, any property, real or personal, book, voucher,
or other paper, or to execute any instrument, which it deems
necessary, for perfecting or assuring the receiver's title or
possession.
§ 1878. A discovery may be compelled in an action,
brought as prescribed in this article, by directing the per
son, required to make it, to appear before the court, or a
referee appointed by it, and to be examined under oath, con
cerning the matters pertaining to the discovery. But this
section does not affect the right of the plaintifff, to cause
the deposition of a defendant to be taken, as prescribed in
article first of title third of chapter ninth of this act.
§ 1879. This article does not apply to a case, where the
judgment debtor is a corporation, created by or under the
laws of the State. Nor does it authorize the discovery or
seizure of, or other interference with, any property, which
is expressly exempted by law from levy and sale, by virtue
of an execution ; or any money, thing in action, or other
property held in trust for a judgment debtor, where the
trust has been created by, or the fund so held in trust has
proceeded from, a person other than the judgment debtor ;
or the earningB of the judgment debtor for his personal
services, rendered within sixty days next before the com
mencement of the action, where it is made to appear, by his
oath or otherwise, that those earnings are necessary for the
use of a family, wholly or partly supported by his labor.
§ 1880. Where a sheriff is liable for the escape of a |HM,inbd.
prisoner committed to his custody, or is guilty of any other ^ t t'on8°lactionable default or misconduct in his office, the person
injured thereby may apply to the supreme court, or to a
superior city court having jurisdiction, for leave to prosecute
the sheriff's official bond. The application must be accom
panied with proof, by affidavit, of the default or misconduct
complained of, and that satisfaction of the same has not
been received ; and with a certified copy of the official
bond.
§ 1881. Upon such an application, the court must grant
an order, permitting the applicant to maintain an action
upon the bond. The action must be brought, in the court
which granted the order, by the applicant as plaintifff ; and
it may be maintained, as if the applicant was the obligee
named in the bond, except as otherwise expressly prescribed
in this article.
§ 1882. The same, or any other applicant, may, in like
manner, either before or after judgment in the first action,
obtain, from the court which made the first order, but not
from any other court, an order, permitting him to maintain
another action, in the same court, upon the same bond, for
another default or misconduct. Any number of such
orders may be successively made ; and neither of the ac
tions authorized thereby is affected by the pendency of, or
the recovery of judgment in, any other, except as otherwise
expressly prescribed in this article.
§ 1883. Where an execution is issued upon a judgment,
recovered against the sheriff and any of his sureties, in an
action, brought pursuant to the last four sections, the
plaintifff's attorney must indorse thereon a direction to
collect the same, in the first place, out of the property of
the sheriff, and, if sufficient property of the sheriff cannot
be found, then to collect, the deficiency out of the prop
erty of the surety or sureties.
§ 1884. It is a defense by a surety, against whom an
action is brought upon a sheriff's official bond, that he, or
any other surety or sureties, have been or will be compelled,
for want of sufficient property of the sheriff, to pay, upon
one or more judgments recovered against him or them,
upon the same bond, an aggregate amount, exclusive of
costs, officers' fee.ts, and expenses, equal to the sum for
which the defendant is liable, by reason of the bond. It is
a partial defense, that the difference between the aggregate
amount, so paid, or to be paid, and the sum for which the
defendant is thus liable, is less than the amount of the
plaintifff's demand.
§ 1886. If the aggregate amount of the liabilities, which
might be recovered by actions upon the sheriff's official
bond, as prescribed in this article, exceeds the sum for
which the sureties are liable, the court must, upon the application of a person who has obtained leave to prosecute
the bond, made upon notice to the plaintifff's attorney, in
each action then pending upon the sheriff's official bond,
and in each uncollected judgment recovered thereupon,
direct and provide for the distribution of the money, col
lected out of the property of the sureties, among the persons
in favor of whom the liabilities have accrued, in proportion
to the amount which each one is entitled to recover ; to be
ascertained by a reference, or in such other manner as the
court directs. For the purposes of the motion, an order
may he made by a judge, forbidding the payment, to the
plaintifff in any action, of the sum collected or to be col
lected, by virtue of a judgment therein. But this section
does not authorize the court to compel a plaintifff to refund
any money, collected and received by him, in good faith,
before service or notice of such an order.
§ 1886. Where a surrogate, or an officer acting as sur
rogate, is guilty of any actionable default or misconduct in
his office, the person injured thereby may apply for leave
to prosecute the delinquent's official bond.
§ 1887. Where a certified copy of the order or judgment
of a court, directing a county treasurer to pay or deliver,
to one or more persons designated therein, any money,
stocks, securilies, or other investments held by him, subject
to the direction of that court, is served upon the county
treasurer, if he fails to obey the direction, the person injured
thereby may apply for leave to prosecute his official bond.
Service upon a county treasurer, as required by this section,
may be made personally, or by leaving the paper, either at
his office, during his absence therefrom, with a person of
suitable age and discretion, having charge of the office, or
at his residence, or his last residence within the county,
with a person of suitable age and discretion.
§ 1888. Where a public officer is required to give an
official bond to the people, and special provision is not made
by law, for the prosecution of the bond, by or for the
benefit of a person, who has sustained, by his default, de
linquency, or misconduct, an injury, for which the sureties
upon the bond are liable, such a person may apply for leave
to prosecute the delinquent's official bond.
§ 1889. Sections one thousand eight hundred and eighty
to one thousand eight hundred and eighty-five of this act,
both inclusive, govern an application, made as prescribed
in either of the last three sections, and each action brought
pursuant to an order made thereupon, as if the delinquent
officer and his sureties were named therein instead of the
sheriff and his sureties.
§ 1890. A receiver, an assignee of an insolvent debtor,
or a trustee or other officer, appointed by a court or a judge,
is a public officer, within the meaning of the last section
but one ; but where he was appointed by or pursuant to the order of a court, or in a special proceeding specified in title
twelfth of chapter seventeenth of this act, the application
for leave to prosecute his official bond must be made to the
court by which, or pursuant to whose order, he was ap
pointed, or in which the judgment was rendered, as the
case may lie. An action, brought as prescribed in this sec
tion, must be brought in the court to which application is
made for leave to bring it.
§ 1891. Where the default, by reason of which an
application for leave to prosecute an official bond is made,
as prescribed in this article, consists of the non-payment of
money, and special provision is not otherwise made by law,
the applicant must prove a demand of the money from the
officer, or that a demand cannot be made, with due dili
gence. But such proof is not necessary, where the appli
cant has recovered a judgment against the officer.
§ 1892. An application for leave to prosecute an official
bond, as prescribed in this article, may be made without
notice ; but, in that case, the officer, or either of his sureties,
may apply, upon notice, to vacate an order permitting the
applicant to maintain an action, upon any ground, showing
that it ought not to have been granted.
§ 1893. Where a penalty or forfeiture is given, by a
statute, to a person aggrieved by the act or omission of
another, the person to whom it is given, may, if it is
pecuniary, maintain an action to recover the amount
thereof ; or, if it consists of the forfeiture of a chattel, he
may maintain an action to recover the chattel, or its value,
or other damages, as the case requires.
§ 1894. Where a penalty or forfeiture is given, by a
statute, to any person who sues therefore, an action to re
cover it may be maintained by any person, in his own
name ; but the action cannot be compromised or settled,
without the leave of the court in which it is brought.
§ 1895. The summons in an action, brought as pre
scribed in the last section, can be served only by an officer,
authorized by law to collect an execution, issued out of the
same court. The summons, when issued, cannot be coun
termanded by the plaintifff, before the service thereof ; and
immediately after it has been served, the officer, who served
it, must file it, with his certificate of service, in the office of the clerk, or deliver it, with a like certificate, to the
magistrate by whom it was issued ; as the case requires.
§ 1896. In an action to recover a penalty or forfeiture,
given by a statute, brought by any person, other than the
person aggrieved or a public officer, the plaintifff may re
cover, notwithstanding the recovery of a judgment, for or
against the defendant, in an aclion brought therefore by
another person, if he establishes that the former judgment
was recovered collusively and fraudulently.
g 1897. In an action to recover a penalty or forfeiture.
given by a statute, if a copy of the eomplaintis not delivered
to the defendant with a copy of the summons, a general
reference to the statute must be endorsed upon the copy of
tue summons so delivered, in the following form, " According to the provisions of," etc. ; adding such a description of
the statute, as will identify it with convenient certainty.
an(^ a'so sPec'fynlg tne section, if penalties or forfeitures
are given, in different sections thereof, for different acts or
omissions.
§ 1898. Where a statute gives a pecuniary penalty or
forfeiture, not exceeding a specified sum, an action may be
maintained to recover the sum specified ; and the court,
jury, or referee, by which or by whom the issues of fact
are tried, or, where judgment is taken by default for fail
ure to appear or plead, the damages are ascertained, may
award to the plaintifff the whole sum, or such a part thereof,
as it or he deems proportionate to the offense.
ARTICLE FOURTH.
Certain Actions to recover Damages for Wrongs.
§ 1899. Civil and criminal prosecutionH not merge!
1900. Action for suing;, etc., in
name of another. Made
also a misdemeanor.
3901. Treble and other increased
damages to be recovered.
1902. Action for causing death
by negligence, etc.
§ 1899. Where the violation of a right admits of a
civil and also of a criminal prosecution, the one is not
merged in the other.
§1900. If a person, vexatiously or maliciously, in the
name of another but without the latter's consent, or in the
name of an unknown person, commences or continues, or
causes to be commence 1 or continued, an action or special
proceeding, in a court, of record or not of record, or a
special proceeding before a judge or a justice of the peace ;
or takes, or causes to be taken, any proceeding, in the
course of an action or special proceeding in such a court,
or before such an officer, either before or after judgment or
other final determination ; an action, to recover damages therefore nav be maintained against him. by tilt adverse
partT to' tbt action or special proceeding ; and a lit* ^riUtn
mav" be maintained by the person, if am whose name w«
thus used
H«? is ah» guilty of a mwaemeanoT. punish
aMe by imprisonment, not exceeding sis months.
§ 1901. In an action, brought by the adverse nam a*
prescribed in the last section, the plaintifff if he recovers
final judmnenT. i- entitled 10 Tecover treble damages. In
an action brournt by tbe person -whose name was used,
as prescribed in the la=t section, the plaintifff k entitled to
recover his actua! damages, and two hundred and fifty
dollars in addition thereto.
§ 190S. Tne executor or administrator of a decedent,
who has left, him or her surviving, a husband, wife, or
next of kin. may maintain an actum to recover damaees
for a wrongful act, neglect, or default, by which the a>cedent's death wa6 caused, against a natural person who.
or a corporation which, would have been liable to an action
in favor of the decedent, by reason thereof, if death had
not ensued. Such an action must be commenced within
two years after the decedent's death.
§ 1 90S. The damages recovered in an action, brought
as "prescribed in the last section, are exclusively for the
benefit of the decedent's husband or wife, and nex't of kin ;
and, when they are collected, they must be distributed by
the plaintifff, as if they were unbeqneatbed assets, left in his
hands, after payment of all debts, and expenses of adminis
tration. But the plaintifff may deduct therefrom the ex
penses of the action, and his commissions upon tbe resi
due ; which must beallowed by the surrogate, upon notice,
given in such a mariner and to such persons, as the surro
gate deems proper.
§ 1904. The damages awarded to the plaintifff may bo
such a sum, not exceeding five thousand dollars, as the jury,
upon a writ of inquiry, or upon a trial, or, where issues of
fact are tried without a jury, the court or the referee,
deems to be a fair and just compensation for the pecuniary
injuries, resulting, from the decedent's death, to the person
or persons, for whose benefit the action is brought. When
final judgment for the plaintifff is rendered, the clerk must
add to the sum so awarded, interest thereupon from the dece
dent's death, and include it in the judgment. The inquisi
tion, verdict, report, or decision, may specify the day Irom
which interest is to be computed ; if it omits so to do, llio
day may be determined by the clerk, upon allldavils.
§ 1905. The term, "next, of kin," as used in the fore
going sections, has the meaning specified in section one
thousand eight hundred and seventy of this act,
§ 1906. In an action of slander, brought by a woman,
for words imputing unchastity to her, it is not necessary to allege or prove special damages. If the plaintifff is married,
the damages recovered are her separate property.
45 Hun, wo.
§ 1907. An action, civil or criminal, cannot be main
tained against a reporter, editor, publisher, or proprietor
of a newspaper, for the publication therein of a fair and
true report of any judicial, legislative, or other public and
official proceedings, without proving actual malice in
making the report .
§ 1908. The last section does not apply to a libel, con
tained in the heading of the report ; or in any other matter,
added by any person concerned in the publication ; or in
the report of any thing said or done, at the time and place
of the public and official proceedings, which was not a part
thereof.
§ 1909. Where a claim or demand can be transferred,
the transfer thereof passes an interest, which the transferee
may enforce by an action or special proceeding, or inter
pose as a defense or counterclaim, in his own name, as the
transferor might have done ; subject to any defense or
counterclaim, existing against the transferor, before notice
of the transfer, or against the transferee. But this section
does not apply, where the rights or liabilities of a party to
a claim or demand, which is transferred, are regulated by
special provision of law ; nor does it vary the rights or lia
bilities of a party to a negotiable instrument, which is trans
ferred.
§ 1910. Any claim or demand can be transferred, ex
cept in one of the following cases :
1. Where it is to recover damages for a personal injury,
or for a breach of promise to marry.
2. Where it is founded upon a grant, which is made
void by a statute of the State ; or upon a claim to or inter
est in real property, a grant of which, by the transferor,
would be void by such a statute.
8. Where a transfer (hereof is expressly forbidden by a
statute of I lie Mate, or of the United States, or would con
travene public policy.
24 N. Y.
§ 191 1. A cause of action to cancel, or otherwise affect.
State Rep. an instrument executed, or an act done, as security for a
• usurious loan or forbearance, can be thus transferred, where the instrument or act creates a specific charge upon
property, which is also transferred in disaffirmance thereof,
and not otherwise ; but, in that case, the transferee does
not succeed to the right, conferred by statute upon the
borrower to procure relief, without paying, or offering to
pay, any part of the sum or thing loaned.
§ 1912. A judgment for a sum of money, or directing the
payment of a sum of money, recovered upon any cause of
action, may be transferred ; but if it is vacated or reverced,
tie transfer thereof does not transfer the cause of action,
unless the latter was transferable l>efore the judgment was
recovered.
§ 1913. Except in a case where it is otherwise specially
prescribed in this act, an action upon a judgment for a sum
of money, rendered in a court of record of the State, cannot
be maintained, between the original parties to the judg
ment, unless, either
1. It was rendered against the defendant by default, for
want of an appearance or pleading, and the summons was
served upon him, otherwise than personally ; or
2. The court in which the action is brought has pre
viously made an order, granting leave to bring it. Notice
of the application for such an order must be given to the
adverse party, or the person proposed to be made the ad
verse party, personally, unless it satisfactorily appears to the
court, that personal notice can not be given, with due dili
gence; in which case, notice may be given in such a manner
as the court directs.
§ 1914. An action cannot be maintained, to obtain a
discovery under oath, in aid of the prosecution or defense
of another action.
§ 1915. A bond in a penal sum, executed within or 87 Hun, 533.
without the State, and containing a condition to the effect, IWS.TJBI.
that it is to be void, upon performance of any act, has the
same effect, for the purpose of maintaining an action or
special proceeding, or two or more successive actions or
special proceedings thereupon, as if it contained a covenant
to pay the sum, or to perform the act, specified in the
condition thereof. But the damages to be recovered for a
breach, or successive breaches, of the condition, cannot, in
the aggregate, exceed the penal sum, except where the con
dition is for the payment of money ; in which case, they
cannot exceed, the penal sum, with interest thereupon, from
the time when the defendant made default in the perform
ance of the condition.
§ 1916. A surety, including a drawer or indorser, may 51 Hun, 30.
recover, in an action against his principal ; and an executor,
administrator, or other trustee, may, where the trust estate
is insufficient to reimburse him, recover, in an action against
the beneficiary whom he represents ; his reasonable costs
and other expenses, incurred necessarily and in good faith, in the prosecution or defense, by the express or implii
consent of the principal or beneficiary of an action or sped
proceeding, relating to the demand secured, or to the tn
estate, as the case requires. This section does not aflei
any special agreement relating to those costs and expenses.!''
§ 1917. Where it appears, upon the trial of an actioi .
that a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange, uponl ;
which the action, or a counterclaim interposed in thef'
action, is founded, was lost, while it belonged to the party
claiming the amount due thereupon, he may prove the con
tents thereof, by parol or other secondary evidence, and
may recover or set off the amount due thereupon, as if it
was produced. But for that purpose, he must give to the ad
verse party a written undertaking, in a sum fixed by the
judge or the referee, not less than twice the amount of the
note or bill, with at least two sureties, approved by the
judge or the referee, to the effect, that he will indemnify
the adverse party, his heirs and personal representa lives,
against any claim by any other person, on account of the
note or bill, and against all costs and expenses, by reason
of such a claim.
§ 1918. But where an action is prosecuted or defended
by the people of the State, or by a public officer in their
behalf, the people, or the public officer, may prove the con
tents of a lost note or bill of exchange, by parol or other
secondary evidence, and may recover or set off the amount
due thereupon, without giving any security to the adverse
party.
§ 1919. An action or special proceeding maybe mainC. 252.
tuined, by the president or treasurer of an unincorporated
i'<uCiv' Pro' association, consisting of seven or more persons, to recover
81 Hun, 575. any I)10Perty> or upon any cause of action, for or upon
^ id. 816.
which all the associates may maintain such an action orcial proceeding, by reason of their interest or ownership
;lerein, either jointly or in common. An action or special
jroceeding may be maintained, against the president or
' Treasurer of such an association, to recover any property,
'Nor upon any cause of action, for or upon which the plain
tiff may maintain such an action or special proceeding,
1 against all the associates, by reason of their interest or
ownership, or claim of ownership therein, either jointly or
in common, or their liability therefore, either jointly or
severally. Any partnership, or other company of persons,
which has a president or treasurer, is deemed an associa
tion, within the meaning of this section.
§ 19180. The death or legal incapacity of a member of
the association does not affect an action or special proceed
ing, brought as prescribed in the last section. If the
officer, by or against whom it is brought, dies, is removed,
resigns, or becomes otherwise incapacitated, during the
pendency thereof, the court must make an order, directing
it to be continued by or against his successor in office, or
any other officer, by or against whom it might have been
originally commenced.
§ 1921. In such an action, the officer against whom it
is brought cannot be arrested ; and a judgment against him
does not authorize an execution to be issued against his
property, or bis person ; nor does the docketing thereof
bind his real properly or chattels real. Where such a judg
ment is for a sum of money, an execution issued thereupon
must require the sheriff to satisfy the same, out of any per
sonal property belonging to the association, or owned,
jointly or in common, by all the members thereof, omitting
any direction respecting real property.
§ 1922. Where an action has been brought against an
officer.or a counterclaim has been made, in an action brought
by an officer, as prescribed in the last three sections, another
action, for the same cause, shall not be brought against the
Members of the association, or any of them, until after final
judgment in the first action, and the return, wholly or
Partly unsatisfied or unexecuted, of an execution issued
thereupon. After such a return, the party in whose favor
the execution was issued, may maintain an action, as fol
lows :
1. "Where he was the plaintifff, or a defendant recovering
upon a counterclaim, he may maintain an action against the
members of the association, or, in a proper case, against any
°f them, as if the first action had not been brought, or the
counterclaim had not been made, as the case requires ; and
he may recover therein, as part of his damages, the costs of
the first action, or so much thereof, as the sum, collected by
virtue of the execution, was insufficient to satisfy.
2. Where he was a defendant, and the case is not within
subdivision first of this section, he may maintain an action, to recover the sum remaining uncollected, against tbe per
sons who composed the aesociation, when the action against
him was commenced, or the survivors of them.
But this section-does not affect the right of the person, in
whose favor the judgment in the first action was rendered,
to enforce a bond or undertaking, given in the course of the
proceedings therein.
§ 1923. This article does not prevent an action from
being brought by or against all tbe members of an associa
tion, except as prescribed in tbe last section. Where an
action is brought against the members of the association, as
prescribed in subdivision first of the last section the time
between the commencement of the action by or against the
officer, and the return of the first execution issued upon the
final judgment rendered therein, is not a part of the time
limited by law, for the commencement of the second action.
§ 1924. Section one thousand eight hundred and thir
teen of this act applies to an action brought, as prescribed
in the last section but one, against the members of any
association, which keeps a book for the entry of changes in
the membership of the association, or the ownership of its
property ; and to each book so kept.
§ 1926. An action to obtain a judgment, preventing
13 Daly, 16. waste of, or injury to, the estate, funds, or other property
35 Hun, l. 0f a county, town, city, or incorporated village of the State,
may be maintained against any officer thereof, or any
agent, commissioner, or other person, acting in its behalf, by
a citizen resident therein, who is assessed for and is liable
to pay, or, within one year before the commencement of the
action, has paid, a tax therein. This section does not
affect any right of action in favor of a county, city, town,
or incorporated village, or any public officer.
§ 1926. An action or special proceeding may be main
tained, by the trustee or trustees of a school district ; the
commissioner or commissioners of highways of a town:
the overseer or overseers of the poor of a town, village, or
city ; the supervisor of a town ; the county superintendent
or superintendents of the poor ; or the supervisors of a
county, upon a contract, lawfully made with those officers or their predecessors, in their official capacity ; to enforce
a liability created, or a duty enjoined, by law, upon those
officers, or the body represented by them ; to recover a
penalty or a forfeiture, given to those officers, or the body
represented by them ; or to recover damages for an injury
to the property or rights of those officers, or the body
represented by them ; although the cause of action accrued
before the commencement of their term of office.
§ 1927. An action or special proceeding may be main
tained, against any of the officers specified in the last sec
tion, upon any cause of action, which accrues against them
or has accrued against their predecessors, or upon a con
tract made by their predecessors in their official capacity
and within the scope of their authority.
§ 1928. The last two sections do not apply to a case,
where it is specially prescribed by law, that an action may
be maintained, by or against the body, represented by an
officer designated in those sections ; but, in such a case, the
prosecution or defense of the action, as the case may be,
must be conducted by the persons then in office, who
represent that body.
§ 1929. In an action or special proceeding, brought pur
suant to section one thousand nine hundred and twenty-six
or section one thousand nine hundred and twenty-seven of
this act, the officer, by or against whom it is brought, must
be described in the summons, or other process by which it
is commenced, and in the subsequent proceedings therein,
by his individual name, with the addition of his official
title. An objection, growing out of an omission to join any
officer, who ought to be joined with the others, must be
taken by tLe answer, or, in a special proceeding, before the
close of the case, on the part of the defendant : otherwise
it is waived.
§ 1930. In such an action or special proceeding, the
court must, in a proper case, substitute a successor in office,
in place of a person made a party in his official capacity,
who has died or ceased to hold office ; but such a successor
shall not be substituted as a defendant, without his con
sent, unless at least fourteen days' notice of the application
for the substitution, has been personally served upon him.
§ 1931. An execution cannot be issued upon a judgment for a sum of money, rendered against an officer in an
action or special proceeding, brought by or against him, in
his official capacity, pursuant to this article ; except where
it is rendered against the trustee or trustees of a school dis
trict, or the commissioner or commissioners of highways of
a town. In either of those cases, an execution may be
issued against and be collected out of the property of the
officer, and the sum collected must be allowed to him, in
the settlement of his official accounts, except as otherwise
specially prescribed by law.
§ 1395 Con§ 1938. In an .action, wherein the complaint demands
sol. Act.
judgment for a sum of money against two or more defend121 N.Y.194. ants( alleged to be jointly indebted upon contract, if the
summons is served upon one or more, but not upon all of
the defendants, the plaintifff may proceed against the de
fendant or defendants, upon whom it is served, unless the
court otherwise directs ; and, if he recovers final judgment,
it may be taken against all the defendants thus jointly in
debted.
§ 1395 Con§ 1933. Such a judgment is conclusive evidence of the
sol. Act.
liability of each defendant, upon whom the summons was
29s',v' Pr°' personally served, or who appeared in the action. Where
it is taken against a defendant, upon whom the summons
was served by publication, or without the State, pursuant
to an order for that purpose, it has the effect, as against
that defendant, specified in section four hundred and fortyfive of this act. As against such a defendant, who is al
lowed to defend after judgment, or as against a defendant
not summoned, it is evidence only of the extent of the
plaintifff's demand, after the liability of that defendant has
been established, by other evidence.
5 1395 con§ 1934. An execution upon such a judgment must be issol. Act.
sued, in form, against all the defendants ; but the attorney
for the judgment creditor must indorse thereupon a direc
tion to the sheriff, containing the name of each defendant,
who was not summoned, and restricting the enforcement of
the execution, as prescribed in the next section.
§ 1895 Con.
§ 1935. An execution against the person, issued upon
sol. Act.
such a judgment, shall not be enforced against the person
of a defendant, whose name is so indorsed thereupon. An
execution against property, issued upon such a judgment,
shall not be levied upon the sole property of such a defend
ant ; but it may be collected out of personal property,
owned by him, jointly with the other defendants, who were
summoned, or with any of them ; and out of the real and
personal property of the latter, or of any of them.
§ 1936. Where a judgment has been taken, as prescribed in section one thousand nine hundred and thirtytwo of this act, the clerk, with whom the judgment-roll is
filed, must write upon the docket, opposite or under the
name of each defendant, upon whom the summons was not
served, the words, "not summoned;" and a like entry
must be made by each county clerk, with whom the judg
ment is afterwards docketed. The judgment does not, by
virtue of its being docketed, bind any real property, or
chattel real, owned by such a defendant. But this section
does not affect the plaintifff's right of action, to charge the
judgment upon any real property.
§ 1937. After the recovery of a judgment against joint
debtors, as prescribed in section one thousand nine hundred
and thirty-two of this act, an action may be maintained by
the judgment creditor, against one or more of the de
fendants, who were not summoned in the original action,
to procure a judgment, charging his or their property with
the sum remaining unpaid upon the original judgment.
§ 1938. The complaint in such an action must be veri
fied ; must contain an allegation that the judgment has
not been paid ; and must state the sum, remaining unpaid
thereupon, at the time of the verification.
§ 1939. The defendant's answer is restricted to defenses or counterclaims, which he might have made in
the original action, if the summons therein had been served
upon him, when it was first served upon a defendant
jointly indebted with him ; objections to the judgment ;
and defenses or counterclaims, which have arisen since it
was rendered.
§ 1940. For the purpose of obtaining an order of arrest,
an injunction order, or a warrant of attachment, the action
is regarded as being founded upon the contract, upon which
the original judgment was recovered.
§ 1941. Where the judgment is in favor of the plaintifff,
it must determine the sum remaining unpaid upon the
original judgment ; and it may be docketed, and an exe
cution may be issued thereupon, as if it was a judgment for
the sum so remaining unpaid, and the costs, if any. Costs
must be awarded, as if the action was brought upon the
original contract, and the sum so remaining unpaid had
been recovered therein.
§ 1942. A joint debtor may make a separate composition with his creditor, as prescribed in this section.
Such a composition discharges the debtor making it ; and
him only. The creditor must execute to the compounding
debtor a release of the indebtedness, or other instrument
exonerating him therefrom. A member of a partnership
cannot thus compound for a partnership debt, until the
partnership has been dissolved by consent or otherwise. In
that case the instrument must release or exonerate him, from all liability incurred by reason of his connection with
the partnership. An instrument, specified in this section,
does not impair the creditor's right of action against any
other joint debtor, or his right to take any proceeding
against the latter ; unless an intent to release or exonerate
him, appears affirmatively upon the face thereof.
§ 1943. An instrument, specified in the last section, is
deemed a satisfaction-piece, for the purpose of discharging,
as prescribed in section one thousand two hundred and
sixty of this act, the docket of a judgment, recovered upon
an indebtedness released or discharged thereby, as far as
the judgment affects the compounding debtor. Where the
docket of a judgment is discharged thereupon, a special
entry must be made upon the docket, to the effect, that
the judgment is satisfied, as to the compounding debtor
only.
§ 1944. Where a joint debtor has thus compounded, a
joint debtor, who has not compounded, may make any
defense or counterclaim, or have any other relief, as against
the creditor, to which he would have been entitled, if the
composition had not been made. He may require the
compounding debtor to contribute his ratable proportion of
the joint debt, or of the partnership debts, as the case may
be, as if the latter had not been discharged.
§ 1945. In an action brought against one or more
persons, engaged, as a joint stock association, partnership,
or otherwise, in the periodical transportation of passengers
or property, an objection, to any of the proceedings, cannot
be taken by a person properly made a defendant, on the
ground that the plaintifff has joined with him, as a defend
ant, a person not jointly engaged with him in that business,
or on the ground that the plaintifff has failed so to join with
him a person so jointly engaged, unless the persons so en
gaged have, at least thirty days before the commencement
of the action, filed in the clerk's office of each county, in
which they transport passengers or property, a statement,
showing the names of all of them. A statement so filed, is
conclusive, for the purposes specified in this section, as
against the persons filing it, until thirty days after filing, in
like manner, a new statement, showing a change of interest.
§ 1946. Where, for any cause, one or more partners have
not been joined as defendants in an action upon a partnership
liability, and final judgment has been taken against the
persons made defendants therein, the plaintifff, if the judg
ment, remains unsatisfied, may maintain a separate action
upon the same demand, against each omitted partner, set
ting forth in the complaint the facts specified in this sec
tion, as well as the facts constituting his cause of action
upon the demand.
g 1947. In an action brought to dissolve a partnership,
or for an accounting between partners, or affecting the continued prosecution of the business, the court may, in its
discretion, by order, authorize the partnership business to
be continued, during the pendency of the action by one or
more of the partners, upon their executing and filing with
the clerk an undertaking, in such a sum and with such sure
ties as the order prescribes, to the effect that they will obey
all orders of the court, in the action, and perform all things
which the judgment therein requires them to perform.
The court may impose such other conditions, as it deems
proper, and it may in its discretion at any time tin reafter
require a new undertaking to be given. The court m;iy
also ascertain the value of the partnership property, and of
the interest of the respective partners by a reference or
otherwise, and may direct an accounting between any of
the partners ; and the judgment may make such provision
for the payment to the retiring partners, for their interest,
and with respect to the rights of creditors, the title to the
partnership property, and otherwise, as justice requires,
with or without the appointment of a receiver, or a sale of
the partnership property.
§ 1948. The Attorney-General may maintain an action,
101N.Y.589. Up0n jjjg own information, or upon the complaint of a pri
vate person in either of the following cases :
1. Against a person who usurps, intrudes into, or unlaw
fully holds or exercises, within the State, a franchise, or a
public office, civil or military, or an office in a domestic
corporation,
2. Against a public officer, civil or military, who has
done or suffered an act, which by law works a forfeiture of
his office.
3. Against one or more persons who act as a corporation
within the State, without being duly incorporated ; or ex
ercise, within the State, any corporate rights, privileges, or
franchises, not granted to them by the law of the State.
§ 1949. In an action, brought as prescribed in the last
section, for usurping, intruding into, unlawfully holding,
or exercising an office, the Attorney-General, besides stating
the cause of action in the complaint, may, in his discretion,
set forth therein the name of the person rightfully entitled
to the office, and the facts showing his right thereto; and
thereupon, and upon proof, by affidavit, that the defend
ant, by means of his usurpation or intrusion, has received
any fees or emoluments belonging to the office, an order to
arrest the defendant may be granted by the court, or a
judge. The provisions of title first of chapter seventh of
this act apply to such an order, and the proceedings there
upon and subsequent thereto, except where special provi
sion is otherwise made in this title. For that purpose, the
order is deemed to have been made as prescribed in section
five hundred and forty-nine of this act. Judgment may be
rendered upon the right of the defendant, and of the party
so alleged to be entitled ; or only upon the right of the
defendant, as justice requires.
§ 1950. An action, brought as prescribed in this article,
is triable, of course and of right, by a jury, in like manner
as if it was an action specified in section nine hundred and
sixty-eight of this act, and without procuring an order, as
prescribed in section nine hundred and seventy of this
act.
§ 1951. Where final judgment is rendered, upon the
right and in favor of the person so alleged to be entitled,
he may, after taking the oath of office, and giving an
official bond, as prescribed by law, take upon himself the
execution of the office. He must, immediately thereafter,
demand of the defendant in the action, delivery of all the
books and papers in the custody, or under the control, of
the defendant, belonging to the office from which the
defendant has been so excluded.
§ 1952. If the defendant refuses or neglects to deliver
any of the books or piipers, demanded as prescribed in the last section, he is guilty of a misdemeanor ; and the same
proceedings must be taken, to compel the delivery thereof,
as are now or shall hereafter be prescribed by lav/, where a
person who has held an office, refuses or neglects to deliver
the official books or papers to his successor.
§1953. [Am'd 1884.] Where final judgment has been ioin.y.ms.
rendered, upon the right and in favor of the person so
alleged to be entitled, he may recover, by action against the
defendant, the damages which he has sustained, in con
sequence of the defendant's usurpation, intrusion into, un
lawful holding, or exercise of the office.
§ 1954. Where two or more persons claim to be entitled
to the same office or franchise, the Attorney-General may
bring the action against all, to determine their respective
rights thereto.
§ 1955. In an action, brought as prescribed in sub
division third of section one thousand nine hundred and
forty-eight of this act, the final judgment, in favor of the
plaintifff, must perpetually restrain the defendant or defend
ants, from the commission or continuance of the act or acts
complained of. A temporary injunction to restrain the
commission or continuance thereof, may be granted, upon
proof, by affidavit, thatthe defendantordefendantsenjoined
have acted as a corporation, within the State, without being
duly incorporated, or have usurped, exercised, or claimed,
within the State, a franchise, liberty, or corporate right,
not granted to them by law. The provisions of title second
of chapter seventh of this act apply to such a temporary
injunction, and the proceedings thereupon, except where
special provision is otherwise made in this title. For that
purpose, the injunction order is deemed to have been
granted as prescribed in section six hundred and three of
this act.
§ 1956. In any other action, brought as prescribed in
this article, where a defendant is adjudged to be guilty of
usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully holding or exer
cising, an office, franchise, or privilege, final judgment must
be rendered, ousting and excluding him therefrom, and in
favor of the people or the relator, as the case requires, for
the costs of the action. As a part of the final judgment,
the court may. in its discretion, alsoaward, that the defend
ant, or, where there are two or more defendants, that one
or more of them, pay to the people a fine, not exceeding
two thousand dollars. The judgment for the tine may be
docketed, and execution may be issued thereupon, in favor
of the people, as if it had been rendered in an action to
recover the fine. The fine, when collected, must be paid
into the treasury of the State.
§ 1957. The Attorney-General may maintain an aetion
to vacate or annul letters-patent, granted by the people of
the State, in either of the following cases :
1. Where they were obtained by means of a fraudulent
suggestion, or concealment of a material fact, made by, or
with the knowledge or consent of, the person to whom they
were issued.
2. Where they were issued in ignorance of a material fact,
or through mistake.
3. Where the patentee, or those claiming under him, have
done or omitted an act, in violation of the terms and con
ditions upon which the letters-patent were granted, or have,
by any other means, forfeited the interest acquired under
the same.
Whenever the Attorney-General has good reason to be-*
lieve, that any act or omission, specified in this section, can
be proved, and that the person to be made defendant has
no sufficient legal defense, he must commence such an
action.
§ 1058. An action, brought as prescribed in this article,
is triable, of course and of right, by a jury, as if it was an
action specified in section nine hundred and sixty-eight of
this act, and without procuring an order, as prescribed in
section nine hundred and seventy of this act.
§ 1959. Where final judgment, vacating or annulling
letters patent, is rendered in an action, brought as prescribed
in the last section, the Attorney-General must cause a copy
of the judgment roll to be forthwith filed in the office of
the secretary of State ; who must make an entry, in the
records of the commissioners of the land office, stating the
substance and effect of the judgment, and the time when
the judgment-roll was filed. The real property, granted by
those letters-patent, may thereafter be disposed of by the
commissioners of the land office, as if the letters-patent had
not been issued.
§ 1960. Immediately after making the entry prescribed
in the last, section, the secretary of State must transmit a
certified transcript thereof to the clerk, or the register, as
the case requires, of each county, in which the real prop
erty affected by the judgment is situated. The clerk or
register must file it ; and, if the letters-patent are recorded
in his office, he must note the contents of the transcript in
the margin of the record.
the supreme court, or of a superior city court, a con- «°i- Act.
struction is given to a statute, an act done, in good faith,
and in conformity to that construction, after the decision
was made, and before a reversal thereof by the Court of
appeals, is so far valid, that the party doing it is not liable
to any penalty or forfeiture, for an act that was adjudged
lawful by the decision of the comt below. But this section
does not control or affect ihe decision of the Court of ap
peals upon an appeal actually taken before the reversal.
§ 1962. Where real or personal property has been for
feited, or a penalty incurred, to the people of the State, or
to an officer, for their use, pursuant to a provision of law,
the Attorney-General, or the district-attorney of the county
in which the action is triable, must bring an action to re
cover the property or penalty, in a court having jurisdiction
thereof. Where the supreme court and a justice's court
have concurrent jurisdiction of the action, it may be
brought in either, at the election of the Attorney-General
or distiict-attorney. A recovery in such an action bars a
recovery, in any other action, brought for the same cause.
§ 1963. Money recovered in such an action, which is not
otherwise specially granted or appropiiated by law, must,
when collected, be paid into the treasury of the State.
§ 1964. Sections one thousand eight hundred and ninety
seven and one thousand eight hundred and ninety-eight of
this act apply to an action, brought as prescribed in the last
two sections.
§ 1965. Where the condition of a recognizame is
broken, an order of the court, directing the prosecution of
the recognizance, is a sufficient forfeiture thereof.
§ 1966. Where a recognizance to the people is forfeited, 40 Hun, i»7.
the district-attorney of Ihe county in which it was taken,
must, unless the court otherwise directs, forthwith bring an
action to recover the penalty thereof. It is not necessary,
in such an action, to allege or prove any damages, by
reason of the breach of the condition ; but where the people
are entitled to judgment therein, they must have judgment
absolute, for the penalty of the recognizance.
§ 1967. Within thirty days after a district-attorney re
ceives or collects money upon a recognizance, or for a pen
alty or forfeiture, belonging to the county, he must pay it
to the county treasurer of his county, deducting only his
necessary disbursements ; except that, where he does not
receive, as his compensation, a salary fixed pursuant to law,
the county court may, by an order entered in its minutes,
allow him to retain also a sum, specified in the order, for
his reasonable costs and expenses, and a reasonable coun
sel fee.
§ 1968. Each district-attorney must render to the first
term of the county court of his county, held in each calen
dar year, a written account, verified by his affidavit, of all
actions brought by him upon recognizances, or for penalties
or forfeitures belonging to the county, or to the State ; of
all his proceedings therein ; of all judgments recovered by
him therein ; and of all money, collected by him from any
person, belonging to the county or to the State. This sec
tion applies to a district-attorney who has gone out of office ;
during the preceding calendar year.
§ 1969. Where any money, funds, credits, or other
property, held, or owned by the State, or held or owned,
officially or otherwise, for or in behalf of a governmental or
other public interest, by a domestic municipal, or other
public corporation, or by aboard, officer, custodian, agency,
or agent of the State, or of a city, county, town, village, or
other division, subdivision, department, or portion of the
State, has heretofore been, or is hereafter, without right ob
tained, received, converted, or disposed of, an action to re
cover the same, or to recover damages, or other compensa
tion, for so obtaining, receiving, paying, converting, or
disposing of the same, or both, may be maintained by the
people of the State, in any court of the State having juris
diction thereof, although a right of action, for the same
cause, exists by law in some other public authority, and
whether an action therefore, in favor of the latter, is or is
not pending, when the action in favor of the people is com
menced.
§ 1070. "Where an action is commenced by the people,
for a cause specified in the last section, the court in which
it is brought may, upon the application of any parly there
to, grant an order staying proceedings in any other action,
brought, for the same cause, in the same or any other
court of the State, by a public authority, other than tho
people ; and, if necessary or proper, it may vacate any
order or interlocutory judgment, made or rendered in such
an action ; and it may, by the same order, or by a sub
sequent order, granted upon the application of any party
to either action, direct that any party to tho action so
staj'ed, be brought in, as a party to tho action commenced
by the people.
§ 1971. The people of the State may commence and
maintain, in their own name, or otherwise, as is allowable,
one or more actions, suits, or other judicial proceedings,
in any court, or before any tribunal, of the United States,
or of any other State, orof any territory of the United States,
or of any foreign country, for any cause specified in the
last section but one.
§ 1972. Upon the commencement, by the people of the
State, of any action, suit or other judicial proceeding, as
prescribed in this article, the entire cause of action, includ
ing the title to the money, funds, credits, or other property,
with respect to which the suit or action is brought, and to
the damages or other compensation, recoverable for the
obtaining, receipt, payment, conversion, or disposition
thereof, if not previously so vested, is transferred to, and
becomes absolutely vested in, the people of the State.
§ 1973. The people of the State will not sue for a
cause of action, specified in this article, unless it ac
crued within ten years before the action is commenced.
§ 1974. Any court of the State, in which an action is
brought by the people, as prescribed in this article, may, by
the final judgment therein, or by a subsequent order, direct
that any money, funds, damages, credits, or other property,
recovered by, or awarded to, the plaintifff therein, which,
if that action had not been brought, would not have
vested in the people, be disposed of, as justice requires,
in such a manner as to re-instate the lawful custody
thereof, or to apply the same, or the proceeds thereof, to
the objects and purposes for which they were authorized
to be raised or procured ; after paying into the State
treasury, out of the proceeds of the recovery, all expenses
incurred by the people in the action.
§ 1975. Any corporation, board, officer, custodian,
agency, or agent, may, in behalf of any city, county, town,
village, or other division, subdivision, department, or por
tion of the State, which was not a party to an action,
brought as prescribed in this article, and which claims to
be entitled to the custody or disposition of any of the money, funds, damages, credits, or other property, re
covered by, or awarded to the plaintifff, by the final judg
ment in the action, or any of the proceeds thereof, and not
disposed of as prescribed in the last section, present, at any
time after the actual collection of the money, and its paynent into the State treasury, or the actual receipt of the
property by the people, to the supreme court, at a special
term thereof held in the county of Albany, a verified peti
tion, setting forth the facts, and praying for the relief to
which he or it is entitled . Notice of the application and a.
copy of the petition must be served upon the AttorneyGeneral. Upon the hearing the court may make such a
final order, as justice requires, for the disposition of the
money or other property, as prescribed in the last section.
§ 1976. The Attorney-General must commence an ac
tion, suit, or other judicial proceeding, as prescribed in this
article, whenever he deems it for the interest of the people
of the State, so to do ; or whenever he is so directed, in
writing, by the governor.
§ 1977. Whenever the Attorney-General has good reason
to believe, that the title to, or right of possession of, any
real property, has vested in the people of the State, by
escheat, or by conviction or outlawry for treason, he must
commence an action of ejectment, to recover the property.
§ 1978. The Attorney-General must cause a notice,
specifying the names of the parties, and the object of the
action, and containing a brief description of the property
affected thereby, to be published in the newspaper printed
at Albany,* in which legal notices are required to be pub
lished, in a newspaper published in the city of New York,
and in a newspaper published in each county in which any
part of the property is situated, at least once ill each week,
for twelve successive weeks, before an issue of fact, joined
in the action, is brought to trial ; or, where judgment is
rendered therein in favor of the plaintifff, otherwise than
upon the trial of an issue of fact, before final judgment is
rendered.
§ 1979. If th* property is not occupi**! ■as -«■
is known to the Attorney-General, a* claimiiiy .. .» .-»-•..the defendant or defendants may be Ara\enx\if. -.
..-..,--.
claimants." without any other description.
.— ...
spects, section four hundred and flfty-on/- '
-j •■
to an action, in which the defendant or ;< ' ■•
•designated.
§ 1980. When-, in an action of <•
property alleged to be escheated, l.roo
. . • •■
•■
the last section, final judgment in '. , .r
■ , .. .
rendered against unknown claimant-' *■■■'
recovered thereby is afterwards *>.•<. ...
-■ ■• •
the direction of the commissioner* .' .• ■ .
.'■'■■- ...
judgment is conclusive upon th« :.' •■ .'
■ ■■*
~
against all persons, except those •»••.»,
.<
-■ ^
of ejectment for the recovery '\trr-' :• .'
within five years after the flnaJ y. : •
• •■the action in favor of the people *jj: .<..-...•.
filed thereupon. But section ':.?■*. . ■■-■ .: -■■ ' ■ • ,
five of this act applies to such ar. v.-.<.
§ 1981. The AttorneyOi^r*. -~ -- " -•- -■■■ '■ ■•—
make a report to the cornmiKxi'.r.^r. .' .j . .•..'. . /* .
real property recovered by U*e j*-/.;.-*-. - •■--. -" •■■<- •• - -/.••
pursuant to this article.
§ 1982. Where personal £,«"*,»■»■ < -• :•••*- - - x "- -^
people, upon a conviction or s . - .' ' '
*-'•"
" »-'
torney-General mu.«t brin^ a.■ —^ . •
- ~< ■■ '•
recover the same, or the »». .<: - • .' ■-• •• > ■■ - •■••-.
founded upon the forf(-i*-.r* ** ■ ■•..'. •* •«
-■-•• -j *
private person, who had ar/, ..'••: '. j. /. .-» x -y ■ /

ARTTcr.K -rx.:r.
Miscellaneous
5 1983. 8cire facia*, quo »**- | .»*' '.*?•»
I"* '•" ■*«"•*•«
ranto, etc., ab<>: .*!.*-.-:
•--- -~ •■■-s*-> ■>- **-*
1964. Actions tob- brv.,' • t
-•• - " ' •'--' »
the name of tb« i**v*
"** *'"- ■'■•"' "-*1- " '^ v "<*
1985. Judgment for co»t« t.»/
-■/•• >^ «■ "■* jw.«be taken agsiu-t tij;
Si** «.v - <.~ ■-< ■■>? y '--v*
people.

»■*'

'■*•■

■*■«»

cV.kiA1986. Relator; whet, to b* >r<«j
e- >
as plaintifff : w«ij«»/»
IX* W 1*1. f •'>►.
tion of Attonier-f***.vsy '-■>' ev... vHreeral .
V" ' ---d '" £ "- «*ontj.
§ 1 9 83. The writ of wire fa«.uu-, tue writ .jf quo warranto, 1(n jj.T.s»m
and proceedings by information ill the nature of quo war
ranto, have been abolishe<i. The relief, formerly obtained
by means of either of thohe write, may be obtained by ac
tion, where an appropriate action therefore is prescribed in
this act.
§ 1984. An action, brought as prescribed in this title,
except an action to recover a penalty or forfeiture, expressly given by law to a particular officer, must be brought in the
name of the people of the State ; and the proceedings therein
are the same, as in an action by a private person, except as
otherwise specially prescribed m this title.
| 1985. Where judgment is rendered, or a final order
is made, against the people, in a civil action brought, or
special proceeding instituted, in their name, by a public
officer, pursuant to a provision of law, it must be to the
same effect, and in the same form, as against a private in
dividual, who brings a like action, or institutes a like
special proceeding, except as otherwise specially prescribed
by law. But an execution shall not be issued against the
people.
2 Civ. Pro.
§ 1986. Where an action is brought by the Attorneya05General, as prescribed in this title, on the relation or in for
mation of a person, having an interest in the question , the
complaint must allege, and the title of the action must
show, that the action is brought upon the relation of that
person. In such a case, the Attorney-General must, as n
condition of bringing the action, require the relator to give
satisfactory security to indemnify the people, against the
costs and expenses thereof. Where security is so given, the
Attorney-General is entitled to compensation for his services,
to be paid by the relator, in like manner as the attorney and
counsel for a private person.
§ 1987. Where final judgment in an action, brought a»
prescribed in this title, is rendered against a corporation, or
persons claiming to be a corporation, the court may direct
the costs to be collected by execution against any of the
persons claiming to be a corporation ; or by warrant of
attachment, or other process, against the person of any
director or other officer of the corporation.
§ 1988. Where two or more causes of action exist, i :i
favor of the people, against the same person, for money due
upon, or damages for the non-performance of, one or more
contracts of the same nature, the Attorney-General must
join all those causes in one action.
§ 1989. Where two or more actions, brought in
behalf of the people upon the same mortgage or other con
tract, are pending against separate defendants, claiming or
defending under the same title, the Attorney-General must,
upon the request of the defendants, cause them to be con
solidated into one action ; and only one bill of costs can be
taxed against the defendants.
§ 1990. Each provision of this act, requiring a party to
give security, for the purpose of procuring an order of ar
rest, an injunction order, or a warrant of attachment, or as
a condition of obtaining any other relief, or taking any pro
ceeding ; or allowing the court, or a judge, to require such
security to be given ; is to be construed, as excluding an
action brought by the people of the State, or by a do
TTTLE H.
j^najc i. T'tiwjmub*- gnr'irsa,Dt» f Tr» n- m.-r*- **isi* wrUr
i Tii* vri: tf n;;ina*r cornus i ir^. ;. . T^-rt* ?<-**•'*>
L. Tin vrrn a* ii i*e»- ttTMUs ct
-••- irn tr rerr.-nnr. ic
muiurt mi< :u- can* a: nctciiiioi.
4_ Tit writ a* nuucuo
•
^ Tut Ft o* m- 'jn*,:T:ni.
<L Tut wri o* apeasnueir «j* draa?«e
Z- Tut wra of wr-uarmr. u* review Li*t a?seimnBXUK of «t
Tjrt*Tin- nimnut.

RETICLE K3i5T.
PEOnH'Tf AJTOCABLI TO TT(. or. MOP.t *TaT£ W-rttr.
c ig91_ £on? vit» emnnfiiBKr£
190(2. T:- 1>t miQer*ai- o* vunrL
1SM3. Njoerril JU tut lrwajTirt
ctf ii»e }aouj~.
l^ii. atiirrir. vitta jnmrf vi;L
ptxipM- : jwrutfe. liuw
jcyiad.
1995. Pmrtiet m»j apptx: \<r jot'TTM'T.
1996. AIktioiw lo T»e indorsed
and to^neo.
1997. RuaJ tcoer ; certain prfopt-ffingF same at n.
ljre*. vTa-ii vrr. resnm&LJt.
]!<M9. H<nr strrefi.
3000. Hifcest corpus, bow
§ 1991. Tbe writ of habeas corpus to brinjr up * per
son to testify, or to an-wtr ; the writ of habeas corpus,
and the writ of certiorari, to inquire into the cause of de
tention ; the writ of mandamus ; the writ of prohibition ;
the writ of assessment of damages, which is substituted for
the writ heretofore known a> the writ of ad quod damnum ;
and the writ of certiorari to review the determination of
an inferior tribunal, which may be called the writ of re
view, shall hereafter be styled, collectively, State writs.
§ 1992. A State writ must lie issued under the seal of
the court, by which it is awarded. When1 it is allowed by
a judge out of court, and is returnable before n court of
record, it must be issued under the seal of the court before
which it is returnable. Where it is returnable before A
judge out of court, or before a body or tribunal, oilier limn
a court of record, it must be issued under the seal of (lie
supreme court. Where Hie seal of the supreme court In In
be used, as prescribed in this section, it may be the seal of
the county wherein the writ is awarded, or wherein It Im re
turnable.
§ 1993. Where a State writ is required, in an action or
special proceeding, civil or criminal, to which the people
are a party, or in which they are interested, it may he
awarded upon the application of the Altorney-General, or
of the district-attorney having charge of the action or special
proceeding; and the indorsement of the allowance thereof
must state, that it was issued upon such an application.
§ 1994. A State writ must be issued in behalf of the
people of the State ; but where it is awarded upon the ap
plication of a private person, it must show that it was issued
upon the relation of that person. The officer or other per
son, against whom the writ is issued, shall be styled the
defendant therein.
§ 1995. The parties to a special proceeding, instituted
by State writ, may appear by attorney, with like effect as
in an action brought in the supreme court ; but a return to
such a writ must be made under the hand of the defendant,
except in a case where it is otherwise specially prescribed
by law, or where the court or judge, for good cause shown
by affidavit, otherwise directs. Where the Attorney-Gen
eral or the district-attorney does not appear for the people,
the attorney for the relator is deemed also the attorney for
the people .
§ 1996. The presiding judge of a court, by which a
State writ is awarded, or the judge who allows such a writ
out of court, as the case may be, must sign an allowance
thereof indorsed thereupon, stating the date of the allow
ance.
§ 1997. The final determination of the rights of the par
ties to a special proceeding instituted by State writ, is styled
a final order. The provisions of this act, relating to amend
ments, motions, and intermediate orders, in an action, are
applicable to similar acts in such a special proceeding ; ex
cept where special provision is otherwise made therein, or
where the proceeding is repugnant to the object of the State
writ, or the mode of procedure thereunder.
§ 1998. Except where special provision is otherwise
made in this act, a State writ maybe made returnable forth
with, or on a future day certain, as the case requires.
§ 1999. Except where special provision is otherwise
made in this act, a State writ must be personally served, in
like manner as a summons, issued out of the supreme court ;
and each provision of this act, relating to the personal service
of Mich a summons upon a defendant, applies to the service
of a State writ.
§ 2000. A writ of habeas corpus can be served cnlybv
an elector of the Stale. Where the prisoner is in custody
of a sheriff, coroner, constable, or marshal, the service is
not complete, unless the person serving the writ tenders to
the officer, the fees allowed by law for bringing up the pris
oner, and delivers to him an undertaking, with at least one surety, in a sum specified therein, to the effect, that the
surety will pay the charges of carrying back the prisoner, if
he shall be remanded , and that the pnsoner will not escape
by the way, either in going to, remaining at, or returning
from the place to which he is to be taken. The sum so speci
fied must be, at least, twice the sum for which the prisoner
is detained, if he is detained for a specific sum of money ; if
not, it must be one thousand dollars.
§ 2001. A court or a judge, allowing a writ of habeas
corpus, directed to any person other than a sheriff, coroner,
constable, or marshal, may, in its or his discretion, require
the applicant, in order to render the service thereof com
plete, to pay the charges of bringing up the prisoner. In
that case, the amount of the charges, not to exceed the fees
allowed by law to a sheriff for a similar service, must Iks
specified in the certificate allowing the writ.
§ 3002. The last two sections are not applicable to a
case, where the writ is allowed upon the application of the
Attorney-General, or a district attorney.
§ 2003. A writ of habeas corpus or of certiorari, issued
as prescribed in article second or article third of this title,
may be served by delivering it to the person to whom it is
directed. If he cannot be found, with due diligence, it
may be served, by leaving it, at the ail or other place in
which the prisoner is confined, with any under officer, or
other person of proper age having charge, for the time, of
the prisoner, and paying or tendering to him the fees or
charges for bringing up the prisoner. If the person, upon
whom the writ ought to be served, keeps himself concealed,
or refuses admittance to the person attempting to serve it,
it may be served by affixing it in a conspicuous place, on
the outside, either of his dwelling-house, or of the place
where the prisoner is confined. In that case, the service is
complete, without tendering the fees or charges for bring
ing up the prisoner.
§ 2004. A sheriff, coroner, constable, or marshal, upon
whom complete service of a writ of habeas corpus is made,
as prescribed in this article, must obey and make return to
the writ, according to the exigency thereof, whether it is
directed to him or not. Any other person, upon whom
such a writ is served, having the custody of the individual
for whose benefit it was issued, must obey and execute it,
according to the command thereof, without requiring any
bond, or the payment of any charges, except such as are
specified in the certificate allowing the writ.
§ 2005. A person, upon whom a writ of certiorari,
issued as prescribed in this title, is served, must, in like
mauner, upon payment or tender of the fees allowed by law
for making a return to the writ, and for copying the war
rant, or other process or proceeding, to be annexed there- to, obey and return the writ, according to the exigency
thereof.
$ 2006. Where a writ of habeas corpus is returnable on
a day certain, the return must be made at the time and
place specified therein. Where such a writ is returnable
forthwith, at a place within twenty miles of the place of
service, the return must be made, and the prisoner must be
produced, within twenty-four hours after service ; and the
like time must be allowed, for each additional twenty
miles.
§ 2007. For non-payment, upon demand, of the costs
awarded by a final order, made in a special proceeding in
stituted by State writ, except where a peremptory writ of
mandamus is awarded, after the issuing, of an alternative
mandamus, the person required to pay the same may be
punished for a contempt of the court awarding them, or of
which the judge awarding them is a member, as if the final
order was a final judgment of the court.
§ 2009. Such a writ may also be issued by a justice of
the supreme court, upon the application of a party to a
special proceeding, civil or criminal, pending before any
officer or body, authorized to examine a witness therein.
In a case specified in this section, the writ may also be
issued by a judge of a superior city court, a county judge,
or a special county judge, residing within the county where
the officer resides, before whom, or the court or other body
sits in or before which, the special proceeding is pending.
§2010. Such a writ may also be issued by a justice
of the supreme court, upon the application of a party to an
action, pending before a justice of the peace, or in a justice's
court of a city, or a district court of the city of New York,
to bring before the justice or court, to be examined as a
witness, a prisoner confined in the jail of the county where the action is to be tried, or an adjoining county. In a case
specified in this action, the writ may also be issued by a
judge of a superior city court, a counly judge, or a special
county judge, residing within the county where the justice
resides, or the court is located, or the prisoner is confined,
as the case may be.
§2011. [Am'd 1880.] A writ shall not be issued, by $1155, convirtue of either of the last three sections, to bring up a pris- sol. Act
oner sentenced to death. Nor shall it be issued to bring
up a prisoner confined under any other sentence for a fel
ony ; except where the application is made, in behalf of
the people, to bring him up as a witness on the trial of an
indictment, and then only by and in the discretion of a jus
tice of the supreme court, or a judge of a superior city
court, upon such notice to the district-attorney of the
county wherein the prisoner was convicted, and upon such
terms and conditions, and under such regulations as the
judge may prescribe.
§ 2012. An application for a writ, made as prescribed
in either of the foregoing sections of this article, must be
verified by affidavit, and must state :
1. The title and nature of the action or special proceed
ing, in regard to which the testimony of the prisoner is de
sired ; and the court, or body, in or before which, or the
officer before whom, it is pending.
2. That the testimony of the prisoner is material and
necessary to the applicant, on the trial of the action, or the
hearing of the special proceeding, as he is advised by coun
sel and verily believes.
3. The place of confinement of the prisoner.
4. Whether the prisoner is or is not confined under a
sentence for a felony.
But where the Attorney-General or district-attorney
makes the application, he need not swear to the advice of
counsel.
§ 2013. The return to a writ, issued as prescribed in this
article, must state for what cause the prisoner is held ; and
if it appears therefrom, that he is held by virtue of a man
date in a civil action or special proceeding, or by virtue of a
commitment upon a criminal charge, he must, after having
testified, be remanded, and again committed to the prison,
from which he was taken.
§ 2014. Any officer to whom a writ, issued as prescribed
in this article, is delivered, must obey the same, according
to the exigency thereof, and make a return thereto accord
ingly. If he refuses or neglects so to do, he forfeits, to the
people, if the writ was issued upon the application of the
Attorney-General or a district-attorney, or, in any other
case, to the party on whose application the writ was
issued, the sum of five hundred dollars. But where the
prisoner is confined under a sentence to death, a return to that
§2015. A person imprisoned or restrained in his liberty,
within the State, for any cause, or upon any pretense, is
entitled, except in one of the cases specified in the next section, to a writ of habeas corpus, or a writ of certiorari,
as prescribed in this article, for the purpose of inquiring
into the cause of the imprisonment or restraint, and, iu a
case prescribed by law, of delivering him therefrom. A
writ of habeas corpus may be issued and served under this
section, on the first day of the week commonly called Sun
day ; but it cannot be made returnable on that day.
§ 2016. A person is not entitled to either of the writs
specified in the last section, in either of the following cases :
1. Where he has been committed, or is detained, by
virtue of a mandate, issued by a court or a judge of the
United States, in a case where such courts or judges have
exclusive jurisdiction under the laws of the United States,
or have acquired exclusive jurisdiction by the commence
ment of legal proceedings in such a court.
2. Where he has been committed, or is detained, by
virtue of the final judgment or decree, of a competent tri
bunal of civil or criminal jurisdiction ; or the final order of
such a tribunal, made in a special proceeding, instituted
for any cause, except to punish him for a contempt ; or by
virtue of an execution or other process, issued upon such a
judgment, decree, or final order.
§ 2017. Application for the writ must be made, by a
written petition, signed, either by the person for whose relief it is intended, or by some person in his behalf, to
either of the following courts or officers :
1. The supreme court, at a special or general term there
of, where the prisoner is detained within the judicial dis
trict within which the term is held.
2. A justice of the supreme court, in any part of the
State.
3. An officer authorized to perform the duties of a justice
of the supreme court at chambers, being or residing within
the city or county, where the prisoner is detained ; or, if
there is no such officer within that city or county, capable oi
acting, or, if all those who are capable of acting and
authorized to grant the writ, are absent, or have refused to
grant it, then to an officer, authorized to perform those
duties, residing in an adjoining county.
§ 2018. Where application for either writ is made as
prescribed in subdivision third of the last section, without
the county where the prisoner is detained, the officer must
require proof, by the oath of the person applying, or by
other sufficient evidence, of the facts which authorize him
to act as therein prescribed ; and if a judge in that county,
authorized to grant the writ, is said to be incapable of act
ing, the cause of the incapacity must be specially set forth.
If such proof is not produced, the application must be
denied
§ 2019. The petition must be verified by the oath of the
petitioner, to the effect that he believes it to be true ; and
must state, in substance :
1. That (he person, in whose behalf the writ is applied
for, is imprisoned, or restrained in his liberty ; the place
where, unless it is unknown, and the officer or person by
whom, he is so imprisoned or restrained, naming both
parties, if their names are known, and describing either
party, whose name is unknown.
2. That he has not been committed, and is not detained,
by virtue of any judgment, decree, final order, or process,
specified in section two thousand and sixteen of this act.
3. The cause or pretense of the imprisonment or restraint,
according to the best knowledge and belief of the peti
tioner.
4. If the imprisonment or restraint is by virtue of a man
date, a copy thereof must be annexed to the petition ■ unless
the petitioner avers, either, that by reason of the removal or
concealment of the prisoner before the application, a de
mand of such a copy could not be made, or that such a
demand was made, and the legal fees for the copy were
tendered to the officer or other person, having the prisoner
in his custody, and that the copy was refused.
5. If the imprisonment is alleged to be illegal, the petition
must state in what the alleged illegality consists.
6. It must specify whether the petitioner applies for the
writ of habeas corpus, or for the writ of certiorari.
§ 2020. A court or a judge, authorized to grant either
writ, must grant it without delay, whenever a petition
therefore is presented, as prescribed in the foregoing sections
of this article, unless it appears, from the petition itself, or
the documents annexed thereto, that the petitioner is prohib
ited by law from prosecuting the writ. For a violation of this
section, a judge, or, if the application was made to a court,
each member of the court, who assents to the violation,
forfeits to the prisoner one thousand dollars, to be recovered
by an action in his name, or in the name of the petitioner
to his use.
§ 2021. The writ of habeas corpus, issued as prescribed
In this article, must be substantially in the following form,
the blanks being properly filled up :
" The People of the State of New York,
To the Sheriff of," etc. [or " to A. B."]
"We command you, that you have the body of C. D.,
by you imprisoned and detained, as it is said, together with
the time and cause of such imprisonment and detention, by
whatsoever
," ["
name
the the
supreme
said C.court,
I), is at
called
a special"
or charged,
(or "gene
l>efore
ral ") "term thereof, to be held," or "E. F., justice of the
supreme court," or otherwise, as the case may l>e,] "at
, on
," [or " immediately after the
receipt of this writ, "J "to do and receive what shall then
and there be considered, concerning the said CD. And
have you then there this writ.
"Witness,
, one of the justices" (or

"judges") "of the said court," [or "county judge," or
otherwise, as the case may be,] " the
day of
, in the year eighteen hundred and
."
§ 2022. The writ of certiorari, issued as preserilK'd in
this article, must be substantially in the following form,
the blanks being properly tilled up :
" The People of the State of New York,
To the Sheriff of," etc. [or "to A. B."]
" We command you, that you certify fully and at large,
to
," ["the supreme court, at a special" (or
"general") "term thereof, to be held," or "E. F. justice
of the supreme court," or otherwise, as the case may be,]
" at
, on
," [or "immediately
after the receipt of this writ,"] " the day and cause of the
imprisonment of C. D., by you detained, as it is said, by
•whatsoever name the said C D. is called or charged. And
have you then there this writ.
"Witness,
, one of the justices" (or
"judges") "of the said court," [or " county judge," or
otherwise, as the case may be,] " the
day of
, in the year eighteen hundred and
-."
§ 2023. If application for either writ is made to the
supreme court, or to a justice thereof, in a county other
than that where the person is imprisoned or confined, the
writ may be made returnable, in its or his discretion, before
any judge authorized to grant it, in the county of the im
prisonment or confinement.
§ 8024. The writ of habeas corpus or the writ of cer
tiorari shall not be disobeyed, for any defect of form, and
par.icularly in either of the following cases :
1. If the person having the custody of the prisoner, is
designated, either by his name of office, if he has oue, or by
his own name ; or, if both names are unknown or uncer
tain, by an assumed appellation. Any person, upon whom
the "writ is served, is deemed to be the person to whom it is
directed, although it is directed to him by a wrong name or
description, or to another person
2. If the prisoner directed to be produced, is designated
by name, or otherwise described in any way, so as to be
identified as the person intended.
§ 2025. Where a justice of the supreme court, in court
or out of court, has evidence, in a judicial proceeding taken
before him, that any person is illegally imprisoned or re
strained in his liberty within the State ; or where any other
judge, authorized by this article to grant the writs, has
evidence, in like manner, that any person is thus imprisoned
or restrained, within the county where the judge resides ;
he must issue a writ of habeas corpus or a writ of certiorari,
for the relief of that person, although no application there
for has been made.
8 2026. The person upon whom either writ has been
duly served, must state, plainly and unequivocally, in his
return :
1. Whether or not, at the time when the writ was served,
or at any lime theretofore or (hereafter, he had in his
custody, or under his power or reslraiut, the person for
whose relief the writ was issued.
2. If he so had that person, when the writ was serve 1,
and still has him, the authority and true cause of the im
prisonment or restraint, setting it forth at length. If the
prisoner is detained by virtue of a mandate or other writ
ten authority, a copy thereof must be annexed to the return,
and, upon the return of the writ, the original must be pro
duced, and exhibited to the court or judge.
3. If he so had the prisoner at any time but has trans
ferred the custody or restraint of him to another, the return
must conform to the return required by the second subdi
vision of this section, except that the substance of the man
date or other written authority may be given, if the original
is no longer in his hands ; and that the return must state
particularly to whom, at what time, for what cause, and by
what authority, the transfer was made.
The return must be signed by the person making it, and,
unless ho is a sworn public officer, and makes his return in
his official capacity, it must be verified by his oath.
§ 2027. The person, upon whom a writ of habeas
corpus has been duly served, must also bring up the body
of the prisoner in his custody, according to the command
of the writ ; unless he states, in his return, that the prisoner
is so sick or infirm, that the production of him would en
danger his life or his health.
§ 2028. Where a person, who has been duly served
with either writ, refuses or neglects, without sufficient
cause shown by him, fully to obey it, as prescribed in the
last two sections the court or judge, before which or whom
it is made returnable, upon proof of the due service thereof,
must forthwith issue a warrant of attachment, directed
generally to the sheriff of any county where the delinquent
may be found, or, if the delinquent is a sheriff, to any
coroner of his county, or to a particular person specially
appointed to execute the warrant, and designated therein
commanding such officer or other person forthwith to
apprehend the delinquent, and bring him before the court
or judge. Upon the delinquent being so brought up, an
order must be made, committing him to close custody in
the jail of the county in which the court or judge is ; or, if
he is a sheriff, in the jail of a county other than his own,
designated in the order , and, in either case, without being
allowed the liberties of the jail. The order must direct
that he stand committed, until he makes return to the
writ, and complies with any order, which may be made by the court or +adr>e vz reJaaoi; to the pet-win for whose
relief the writ was issued .
§ SOS9. The coart or judge but also, in its or his
discretion, at the time when the warxknt of attachment is
issut-d. or aftrrwar>X isssrK- a precept lothr sheriff. coroner,
or other perseo. t->wb"in the warrant is uimi«l. cominanding him forthwith to bring btfore the court or judge
the person for »l««se benefit the writ was granted, who
must thereafter regain in the custody of the offieer or
person executing the precept, until discharged, bailed, or
remanded, as the court or judge directs.
§ 2030. The sheriff, coroner, or other person, to whom
a warrant of attachment or precept is directed, as prescribed
in either of the last two sections, may. in the execution
thereof, call to his aid the power of the county, as a sheriff
may do, in the execution of a mandate issued' from a court
of record.
j: 2031. The court or judge, before which or whom a
prisoner is brought by virtue of a writ of habeas corpus,
issued as prescribed in this article, must, immediately after
the return of the writ, examine into the facts alleged in tlio
return, and into the cause of the imprisonment or restraint
of the prisoner ; and must make n final order to discharge,
him therefrom, if no lawful cause for the imprisonment or
restraint, or for the continuance thereof, is shown; whether
the same was upon a commitment for an actual or sup
posed criminal matter, or for some other cause.
8 2038. The court or judgemust forthwith m:ike a final n a lilt. N,
order to remand the prisoner, if it appears that he is do- *'• "}■
mined in custody for either of the following causes, and that j^i n y"i,|
the time for which he may legally be so detained has not
expired :
1. By virtue of a mandate issued by a court, or a judge
of the United States, in a case where such courts or judges
have exclusive jurisdiction.
3. By virtue of the final judgment or decree of a com
petent tribunal, of civil or criminal jurisdiction ; or the
final order of such a tribunal, made in aspecial proceeding,
instituted for any cause, except to punish him for a con
tempt ; or by virtue of an execution or other process,
issued upon such a judgment, decree, or final order.
3. Fora criminal contempt, defined in section eight of
this act, and specially and plainly charged in a commitment,
made by a court, officer, or body, having authority to com
mit for the contempt so charged.
8 2033. If it appears upon the return, that the prisoner
is in custody by virtue of a mandate in a civil cause, I13 can
be discharged, only in one of the following cases :
1. Where the jurisdiction of the court which, or of the
officer who, issued the mandate, has been exceeded, either
as to matter, place, sum, or person,
2. Where, although the original imprisonment was law
ful, yet by some act, omission, or event, which has taken
place afterwards, the prisoner has become entitled to be dis
charged.
3. Where the mandate is defective in a matter of sub
stance required by law, rendering it void.
4. Where the mandate, although in proper form, was
issued in a case not allowed by law.
5. Where the person, having the custody of the prisoner
under the mandate, is not the person empowered by law to
detain him.
6. Where the mandate is not authorized by a judgment,
decree, or order of a court, or by a provision of law.
§ 2034. But a court or judge, upon the return of a writ
issue(l as prescribed in this article, shall not inquire into the
legality or justice of any mandate, judgment , decree, or
final order, specified in the last section but one, except as
therein stated.
§ 2035. If it appears that the prisoner has been legally
committed for a criminal offense, or if he appears, by the
testimony offered with the return, or upon the hearing
thereof, to be guilty of such an offense, although the com
mitment is irregular, the court or judge, before which or
whom he is brought, must forthwith make a final order, to
discharge him upon his giving bail, if the case is bailable
or, if it is not bailable, to remand him. Where bail is
given pursuant to an order, made as prescribed in this sec
tion, the proceedings are the same as upon the return to a
writ of certiorari, where it appears that the prisoner is en
titled to be bailed.
§ 2036. Where a prisoner is not entitled to his discharge,
and is not bailed, he must be remanded to the custody, or
placed under the restraint, from which he was taken, unless
the person, in whose custody or under whose restraint he was,
is not lawfully entitled thereto ; in which case, the order
remanding him must commit him to the custody of the
officer or person so entitled.
§ 2037. Pending the proceedings, and before a final
order is made upon the return, the court or judge, before
which or whom the prisoner is brought, may either commit
him to the custody of the sheriff of the county wherein the
proceedings are pending, or place him iu such care or
custody, as his age and other circumstances require.
§ 2038. Where it appears, from the return to either
writ, that the prisoner is in custody by virtue of a mandate,
an order for his discharge shall not be made, until notice
of the time when, and the place where, the writ is return
able, or to which the hearing has been adjourned, as the
case may be, has been either personally served, eight days
previously, or given in such other manner, and for such previous length of time, as the court or judge prescribes, as
follows :
1. Where the mandate was issued or made in a civil
action or special proceeding, to the person who has an in
terest in continuing the imprisonment or restraint, or his
attorney.
2. In every other case, to the district-attorney of the
county, within which the prisoner was detained, at the time
when the writ was served.
For the purpose of an appeal, the person to whom notice
is given, as prescribed in the first subdivision of this section,
becomes a party to the special proceeding.
§ 2039. A prisoner, produced upon the return of a writ 10* N.T. 20.
of habeas corpus, may, under oath, deny any material
allegation of the return, or make any allegation of fact,
showing either that his imprisonment or detention is unlaw
ful, or that he is entitled to his discharge. Thereupon the
court or judge must proceed, in a summary way, to hear
the evidence, produced in support of or against the im
prisonment or detention, and to dispose of the prisoner as
the justice of the case requires.
§ 2040. Where the return to a writ of haheas corpus
states that the prisoner is so sick or infirm, that the produc
tion pf him would endanger his life or health, and the re
turn is otherwise sufficient, the court or judge, if satisfied
of the truth of that statement, must decide upon the return,
and dispose of the matter, as if a writ of certiorari had heen
issued.
§ 204 1. Where an application is made for a writ of
habeas corpus, as prescribed in this article, and it appears
to the court or judge, upon the petition and the documents
annexed thereto, that the cause or offense, for which the
party is imprisoned or detained, is not bailable, a writ of
certiorari may be granted, instead of a writ of habeas cor
pus, as if the application had been made for the former
writ.
§ 2042. Upon the return to such a writ of certiorari,
the court or judge, before which or whom it is returnable,
must proceed as upon a return to a writ of habeas corpus,
and must hear the proofs of the parties, in support of and
against the return.
§ 2043. If it appears, that the prisoner is unlawfully
imprisoned or restrained in his liberty, the court or judge
must make a final order, discharging him forthwith. If it
appears that he is lawfully imprisoned or detained, and is
not entitled to be bailed, the court or judge must make a
final order, dismissing the proceedings.
.2044. Notwithstanding a writ of certiorari has been
issued, or returned, as prescribed in this article, the court
or judge, before which or whom it is returnable, may issue
a writ of habeas corpus, which is, in all respects, subject to the foregoing provisions of this article, relating to the latter
writ. If the court or judge refuses a writ of certiorari, or,
upon the return thereof, refuses to discharge the prisoner,
the latter may claim, and is entitled to, the writ of habeas
corpus, as prescribed in this article.
§1156, con§2045. If, upon the return to a writ of certiorari,
sol. Act.
is.ued as prescribed in this article, it appears, that the persan imprisoned or detained is entitled to be bailed, the court
or judge must make a final order, fixing the sum in which
he is to be admitted to bail ; specifying the court, and the
term thereof, at which he is required to appear : and direct
ing his discharge, upon bail being given accordingly, as re
quired by law. If sufficient bail is immediately offered,
the court or judge must take it ; otherwise, bail may be
given afterwards, as prescribed in the next section.
§ 2046. Upon the production of the order, or, if it was
made by a court, of a certified copy thereof, to a justice of
the supreme court, or to the county judge or special county
judge of the county, or to a judge of a superior city court of
the city, where the prisoner is detained, the judge must take
the recognizance of the prisoner, with two sureties, in the
sum so fixed, conditioned for the appearance of the prisoner,
as prescribed in the order. Each person, offering himself
as a surety, must show, by his oath to the satisfaction of
the judge, that he is a householder in the county, and
worth twice the sum in which he is required to be bound,
over and above all demands against him. It is not neces
sary that the prisoner should appear in person before the
judge, to acknowledge the recognizance ; but it may be
acknowledged by the prisoner, and certified, in like manner
as a deed to be recorded in the county.
§ 1156. Con§2047. The judge must immediately file the recogw>l. Act.
nizance with the clerk of the court, before which the pris
HL
oner ■* uound to appear. He must also make a certificate
upon the order, or the certified copy thereof, to the effect
that it has been complied with. Upon production of the
certificate, the prisoner is entitled to his discharge from im
prisonment, for any cause stated in the return to the cer
tiorari.
§ 2048. The writ of discharge is abolished. A final
order to discharge a prisoner, made as prescribed in this
article, maybe served in like manner as an injunction order,
and when so served, it may be enforced in the same man
ner as a final judgment in a civil action, except where
special provision for its enforcement is otherwise made iu
this act. Where such an older directs a discharge, upon
giving bail, the service thereof is not; complete until service
of the certificate, or other proof prescribed by law, showing
that bail has been given, as required thereby.
§ 2049. Obedience to a final order to discharge a pris
oner, made as prescribed in this article, may be enforced by the court which, or the judge who. made the Mine, by
attachment as for a neglect to make a return to a writ of
liabeas corpus, and with like effect. A pe. * >n guilty of
such disobedience forfeits, to th • prisoner !._:_• rieved, one
thousand two hundred and fifty dollar.-, In addition to the
damages which the latter sustain-.
g 2050. A prisoner, who has been discharged by a final
order, made upon a writ of habeas corjnis or certiorari,
issued as prescr.bed in this article, t-hall not be again im
prisoned, restrained or kept in custody, f.>r the same cause.
But it is not deemed to be the same cause, in either of the
following cases .
1. Where he has been discharged from a commitment
on a criminal charge ; and is afterwards committed for the
same offense, by the lawful order or other mandate of the
court, wherein he was bound by recognizance to appear, or
in which he has been indicted or convicted for the same
offense.
2. "Where he has been discharged, in a criminal cause,
for defect of proof, or for a material defect ia the commit
ment ; and is afterwards airested on sufficient proof, aud
committed by a lawful mandate, for the same offense.
3. Where he has been discharged, in a civil action or
special proceeding, for an illegality in the judgment, final
ordc r, or other mandate, as prescribed in this article ; and
is af '.erwards imprisoned, by virtue of a lawful judgment,
final order, or other mandate, for the same cau e of action.
4. Where he has been discharged, in a civil action or
special proceeding, from imprisonment by virtue of an order
of arrest ; and is afterwards taken in execution, or other
finnl process, in the same action or special proceeding, or
arresu d in another action or special proceeding, after the
first was discontinued.
§ 2051. If a court, or a judge, or any other person, in
the execution of a judgment, order or other mandate, or
otherwise, knowingly violates, causes to be violated, or
assists in the violation of, the last section, he, or if the act
or omission was that of a court, each member of the court
assenting therelo, forfeits, to the prisoner aggrieved, one
thousand two hundn d and fifty dollai s. He is also guilty
of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by line, not. exceeding one thousand dollars, or by
imprisoumi nt, not exceeding six months, or by both, in the
discretion of the court
§ 2052. Anyone, having in his custody, or under his
power, a person entitled to a writ of liabeas corpus or a
writ of certiorari, as prescribed in this article, or a. person
for whose relief a writ of liabeas corpus or a writ of cer
tiorari has been duly issued, as prescribed in this article,
who, with intent to elude the service of the writ, or to avoid
the effect thereof, transfers the prisoner to the custody, or
places him under the power or control, of another, or conceals him, or changes the place of his confinement, is guilty
of a misdemeanor ; and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as specified in the last section.
§ 2053. A person who knowingly assists in the violation
of the last section, is guilty of a misdemeanor ; and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as specified in the last
section but one.
Lilian, 188.
§2054. Where it appears, by proof satisfactory to a court
or judge, authorized to grant either writ, that a person is
held in unlawful confinement or custody, and that there is
good reason to believe, that he will be carried out of the
State, or suffer irreparable injury, before he can be relieved
by a writ of habeas corpus or a writ of certiorari ; the
court or judge must issue a warrant, reciting the facts,
directed to a particular sheriff, or generally to any sheriff
or constable, or to a person specially designated therein ;
and commanding him to take, and forthwith to bring before
the court or judge, the prisoner, to be dealt with according
to law. If the warrant is issued by a court, it must be
under the seal thereof ; if by a judge, it must be under his
hand.
§ 2055. Wheie the proof, specified in the last section,
is also sufficient to justify an arrest of the person having
the prisoner in his custody, as for a criminal offense, com
mitted in taking or detaining him, the warrant must also
contain a direction to arrest that person, for the offense.
§ 2056. The officer or other person, to whom the war
rant is directed and delivered, must execute it by bringing
the prisoner therein named, and also, if so commanded in
the warrant, the person who detains him, before the court
or judge issuing it ; and thereupon the person detaining
the prisoner must make a return, in like manner, and the
like proceedings must be taken, as if a writ of habeas cor
pus had been issued in the first instauce.
§ 2057. If the person, having the prisoner in his cus
tody, is brought before the court or judge, as for a crimi
nal offense, he is entitled to be examined, and must hi
committed, bailed, or discharged, by the court or judge, as
in any other criminal case of the same nature.
§ 2058. An appeal may be taken from an order refus
ing to grant a writ of habeas corpus, or a writ of certiorari,
as prescribed in this article, or from a final order, made
upon the return of such a writ, to discharge or remand a
prisoner, or to dismiss the proceedings. Where a finiil
order is made, to discharge a prisoner, upon his giving
bail, an appeal therefrom may be taken, before bail is
given ; but where the appeal is taken by the people, the
discharge of the prisoner upon bail shall not. be stayed
thereby. An appeal does not lie, from an order of the
court or judge, before which or whom the writ is made reI
turnable, except as prescribed in this section.
5 2059. An appeal from a final order, discharging a
prisoner committed upon a criminal accusation, or from the
affirmance of such an order, may be taken, in the name of
the people, by the Attorney-General or the district-attor
ney.
§ 2O60. Where a prisoner, who stands charged, upon a ($1157,1109,
criminal accusation, ■with a bailable offense, has jierfectod, Consol.Art.
or intends to take, an appial from a final order dismissing S trim. R.
the proceedings, remanding him, or otherwise refusing to
discharge him, made as prescribed in this article, the court
or judge, upon his application, either before or afler the
final order, must, upon such notice to the district-attorney
as the court or judge thinks proper, make an order, fixing
the sum in which the applicant shall be admitted to lia.il,
pending the appeal ; and thereupon, when his appeal is
perfected, he must be admitted to bail accordingly.
§ 2061. The recognizance for that purpose must be
conditioned, that the prisoner will appear, at a general term
of the appellate court to be held at a time and place desig
nated in the order, and abide by and perform the judgment
or order of the appellate court. It must be taken and ap
proved by a justice of the supreme court, or by the court
or judge from whose order the appeal is taken, or by the
county judge of the county in which the order was made,
or, in the city of New York, by a judge of the court of
common pleas for that city and county. In all other re
spects, the proceedings are the same as prescribed in this
article, where it appears, upon the return of a writ of cer
tiorari, that the prisoner is entitled to be admitted to bail.
§ 2062. Where a prisoner, who stands charged with an SS 1 157, 1 16.0,
offense, specified in the last section, has perfected an appeal, COD8ol.Act.
to the Court of appeals, from a final order of the supreme
court, or of a superior city court, affirming an order refus
ing his discharge, or reversing an order granting his dis
charge; the court, from whose order the appeal is taken,
or a judge thereof, must, upon his application, admit him
to bail, as prescribed in the last section ; except that the
recognizance must be conditioned to appear at a general
term of the court from which the appeal is taken, to abide
by and perform its judgment or order, made after the de
termination of the appeal.
§ 2063. Where the sum, in which a prisoner shall be
admitted to bail, has been fixed, as prescribed in either of
the last two sections, he must remain in the custody of the
sheriff of the county in which he then is, until he is admit
ted to bail, as therein prescribed ; or if he does not give the
requisite bail, until the time to appeal has expired, or the
appeal is disposed of, and the further direction of the court,
made thereupon.
§ 2064. Where no order or other direction of the court,
relating to the disposition of a prisoner, is made at the term specified in a recognizance, given as prescribed in section
two thousand and sixty one or section two thousand ami
sixty-two of this act, the matter is deemed adjourned, with
out an order to that effect, to the next general term of
the same court ; or, in the supreme court, to the next
general term thereof to be held in the same department;
and thereafter to each successive general term, until si^cii
an order or direction is made. The prisoner is bound to
attend at each successive general term ; and the reeos:nizance is valid for his attendance accordingly, without any
notice or other formal proceedings.
§ S065. An officer or other person, who detains any one
by virtue of a mandate, or other written authority, must,
upon reasonable demand, and tender of his fees, deliver a
copy thereof to any person who applies therefore, for tin
purpose of procuring a writ of habeas corpus or a writ of
certioraii, in behalf of the prisoner. If he knowingly
refuses so to do, he forfeits two hundred dollars to the
prisoner.
§ 2066. Except as otherwise expressly prescribed by
statute, the provisions of this article apply to and regulate
the proceedings upon every common law or statutory writ
of habeas corpus, as far as they are applicable ; and the
authority of a court or a judge, to grant such a writ, or to
proceed thereupon, by statute or the common law, must be
exercised in conformity to this article, in any case therein
provided for.
§ 2067. A writ of mandamus is either alternative or
Super. Ct. peremptory. The alternative writ may be granted upon
(J.&8.)66. an affidavit, or other written proof, showing a proper case
therefore ; and either with or without previous notice of
the application, as the court thinks proper.
8 2068. Except where special provision therefore is
otherwise made in tliU article, a wiit of mandamus can he
granted only at a special term of the court. In the su
preme court, the special term must he one held within the
judicial district, embracing the county, wherein an issue of
fact, joined tiixni nu alt-rnative writ of mandamus, is tria
ble, as prescribed in this article.
§ 2069. A writ of mandamus may lie granted, at a gen
eral term of the supremo court only, directed generally to
any judge holding, or to hold, a special term of the same
court, or directed to one or more judges of the same court,
named therein, in any ca.~e where such a writ may he is
sued out of the supreme court, directed to any other court,
or to a judge thereof. Such u writ can lie granted only
at the general term of the judicial department, embracing
the county, wherein the action is triable, or the special
proceeding is brought, iu the course of which the matter
is sought to be enforced _by the mandamus originated, un
less that general term is" not in session ; in which ease, it
may be granted at the geneial term of an adjoining judicial
department.
§2070. A peremptory writ of mandamus may be 84Hun,fi84.
issued, in the first instance, where the applicant's right to 09N.Y. mo.
the mandamus depends only upon questions of law, and
notice of the application has been given to a judge of the
court, or to the corporation, board, or other body, officer,
or other person, to which or to whom it is directed. The
notice must be served, at least eight days before the applica
tion is heard ; unless a shorter lime is prescribed by an
order to show cause, made, where the application is to the
special term, by the court, or a judge thereof ; or, where
the application is to the general term, by the general term,
or a general term justice, of that judicial department. In
suchacjiso, t!.e application must be founded upon affida
vits, or other written proofs, a copy of which must he
served wun the notice, or order to show cause. Where the
court, board, or other body to be served, consists of three
or more members, the notice or order to show cause, and
the papers upon which the application is to be made, maybe
served, as pi escribed in the next section for service of an
alternative writ of mandamus. Except as prescribed in
this section, or by special provision of law, a peremptory
mandamus cannot be issued, until an alternative mandamus
has been issued and duly served, and the return day there
of has elapsed.
§2071. An alternative writ of mandamus must be served,
by showing the original writ, and delivering a copy thereof,
to the person to be served. Where it is directed to a court,
or to the judge or judges of a court, it must be served,
either in term time or in vacation, upon the judge or judges
of the court ; except that, where the court consists of three
or more judges, service upon a majority of them is sufficient. Where it is to be served upon a board or body, other
than a corporation, service must be made upon a majority
of the members thereof, unless the board or body was
<-rea'»-d by law, and has a chairman or other presiding
offiwr, appointed pursuant to law ; in which case, service
upon him is sufficient. Where the writ is to be served upon
a corporation, service thereof may be made upon any officer,
upon whom a summons, issued out of the supreme court,
may be served. Where one or more of the persons, upon
whom to make service, as prescribed in this section, cannot,
after due diligence, be found, the exhibition of the original
writ may be dispensed with, and service may be m:ide upon
him or them, as prescribed by law for the service of a sum
mons, issued out of the supreme court.
§ 2072. An alternative writ must be made returnable
twenty days after the service thereof, at the office of the
clerk of the court, or, in the supreme court, the clerk of the
county, designated therein, in which an issue of fact joined
thereupon is triable. A peremptory writ must be made re
turnable at a general or a special term, designated therein,
to which application for the alternative writ might have
been made.
§ 2073. Where the first writ of mandamus has been
duly served, a return must be made to the same, as therein
required, unless it is an alternative writ, and a demurTer
thereto is taken. In default of a return, the person or per
sons, upon whom the writ was served, may be punished,
upon the application of the people, or of the relator, for a
contempt of court.
% 2074. The return to an alternative writ of mandamus
must be annexed to a copy of the writ ; and must be filed,
in the office of the clerk, where it is returnable, within the
time specified in the writ. The return to a peremptory
writ of mandamus must be likewise annexed to a copy
thereof ; and must, befoie the expiration of the first dar of
the term at which it is returnable, be either delivered in
open court, or filed in the office of the clerk of the court,
or, in the supreme court, the clerk of the county wherein
the term is to be held.
$ 2075. An alternative writ of mandamus cannot be
quashed or set aside upon motion, for any matter involving
the merits. A motion to set aside such a writ, for any
other cause, or to set aside or quash a peremptory writ of
mandamus, or to set aside the service of either writ, must
be made at a term, whereat the writ might have been
granted.
§ 2076. The statement, contained in an alternative writ
of mandamus, of the facts constituting the grievance, to
redress which it is issued ; the joinder therein of two or
more such grievances ; and the command of the writ, are
subject to the provisions of chapter sixth of this act, respeeting the statement, in a complain: n' *n> ii>»- <.«»*_
tuting a 'jause of action : the joimtv urt> -i ■
more causes of action : and the uenuuw. " ■
upon. The person, upon whom Ur m i «•■
■ -.> -**
trt
of making a return thereto, may lb- n lw :*•
writ is returnable, a demurrer i< th< m v
demurrer to a complete staKTnen i oi Ian. <•■»■ " - ■ ' '•*
writ, as constituting a separate giT-vaii" -■
'■
«•turn to the remainder of tlie wni x •*—
■>•
1"
thus taken, in a ease where a ueivuudu iua ■
complaint, or to a cause of mcUul i»-w'iw . >• *-•- •
complaint, as prescribed in chapter nil o ' . «»>• »uit must be in like form.
§ 2077. The provision* of chapte- »:.»•• ••''.»•■ f.
latingtothe form and contend v* at vf*— •■•
■ ■■■•.
denials and allegations of n«"w ma'.t»~ *•?■*-•; '. j.* ;.>»■.
visions which relate to the verineatioi <>' a: n .--<■ r ■ •<.
a counterclaim contained theren. ai>; •• ■• . f ■• ■• m
alternative writ of maudamue "i/w; •?;;<» ..
. - ••<--.
ing the command of the writ i <r i »> j> >- • <« •/ ii»
application, each complete siafru^r «'■ ';■■
*■ — • •
cause why the command of th'-wri- id I-." /
»■•<»<
is regarded as a separate defense a:.' >; *>• w ^. ,>•■■, .stated, and numljered.
£ 2078. A person, who bat- maen j. i»—i«i •• ■•■ . •>■•»«.
tive mandamus, cannot be compels >■ m .;.< . ' • •■;»•-• >■.
turn. The people, or the relaio- »>■■■ <>■- •• ••■'» >•■ «> ,
or to any complete statement >f '>.*•■■ '.*•• ■ *>■;,■•■.■>.••
assigned as a cause for djMji>-- /•.; "in • / -•.. - ■/' tie
writ, on the ground that tu» bur.,' t. n.- i" ■■ <■ ■<•■ ;> >«r
upon the face thereof.
§ 2079. An issue of fact uri*e% tip-* !_<*»-!.», e</u in« .■*. r r
in the return, of a material ali»-j;av« '/' !:<< r>r </> up</i, '•r
a material allegation of new ma' ■>;• cvi. a ■■n-«. /> t »'• -j»i
unless a demurrer thereto i> iati»i. V je-' j<< \*-<>-t,« <n
the relator demur to a complete, suiy-m'-m 'A '•■■,<•• *>■;*.
rately assigned as cause lo; iiwit*-yn.v :>,< i/Ainutm'. •>' tn*
writ, an issue of fact an***, witj ie!-pe<-; t,<, in- l'-.uMWi'-:
of the return.
§ 2080. Oral pleadiiigf upon a wit "! maiiMamu* are
abolished, and no ple&dingt *"«■ alj'> v. <.-«., >.-r. <>-j>'_ a* pre
scribed in the foregoing s< <;'j«jj> </ u,i- ar'i'jf- 'i u<: ]><•>visions of title second o? Hiapter >ij.!ti (rf tiji- u'1 apply to
the writ and the return ; ev <-pt tijat it ir i,m n<-i-i-^-:iry to
serve a copy of either upon tlj' attwnjey j<T tin- a<lv<-r»e
party, or to verify either and timt u'-itlier .*n l<e amended,
without special application to the court, or stricken out as
sham.
8 2081. Where a return to an alternative writ of man
damus has been filed, the attorney for the defendant mak
ing it must serve, upon the attorney for the people or the
Li" relator, a notice of the filing thereof. Where the people or
the relator demur to the return, or to a part thereof, a copy
of the demurrer must be servec upon the attorney for the
defendant, within twenty days after the service of such a
notice. Where the defendant demurs to the writ, or to a
part thereof, a copy of the demurrer must be served upon
the attorney for the people or the relator, within the time
prescribed by law for filing it.
§ 2082. Except as otherwise expressly prescribed in this
act, the proceedings, after issue is joined, upon the facts or
upon the law are in all respects, the same as in an action ;
and each provision of this act, relating to the proceedings
in an action, apply thereto. For the purpose of the applica
tion, the writ, the return, and the demurrer are deemed to
be pleadings in an action ; and the final order is deemed to
be a final judgment, and may be entered and docketed, and
enforced, with respect to such parts thereof as are not en
forced by a peremptory mandamus, as a final judgment in
an action. But before the final order can be docketed, or
an execution issued thereupon, an enrollment must be filed
thereupon, as a judgment-roll in an action. For that pur
pose, the clerk must attach together and file in his office, a
certified copy of the final order ; the writ and the return,
or copies thereof ; together with the same papers, which are
i-equired by law to be incorporated into a judgment-roll in
an action. Where the final order is in favor of the people
or the relator, it must award a peremptory mandamus, to be
forth with issued.
61 How. Pr.
§ 2083. An issue of fact, joined upon an alternative writ
m ny
°^ nlandamus, must be tried by a jury, as if it was an issue
super, ct. joined in an action specified in section nine hundred and
(J.&s.)06. sixty-eight of this act ; unless a jury trial is waived, or a
reference is directed by consent of parties. Where the writ
was issued upon the relation of a private person, the relator
or the defendant is entitled to a verdict, report, or decision,
where he would be entitled thereto, if the issue was joined in
an action, brought by the relator against the defendant, to
recover damages for making a false return.
§ 2084. An issue of fact, joined upon an alternative
writ of niRndamus, granted at a special term of the supreme
court, is triable in the county, wherein it is alleged in the
writ, that the material facts took place, unless the court di
rects it to be tried elsewhere. An issue of fact, joined upon
an alternative writ of mandamus, granted at a general term,
is triable in the county, which determines the judicial de
partment, wherein the application for the writ must be
made ; unless the general term directs it to be tried in
another county of the same judicial department. Where
the writ was granted at the general term, the general term
may detail a general term justice, of the same or another
judicial department, to preside at the trial. Upon the trial
of an issue of fact, joined upon an alternative writ of man damns, the rexdict. report, or dermim Tim- n- -w.rn-t i>
and the final order tfceryupnn nnw ik niati' i>- :i.- .•■■nHr-u
or the special tent, at the taw -r^cnir^.
§ 2035. An issue of law. j:uii-t in«n ui i-r.-rruu-. •-<■
writ of masiamus. rranie:: m Ui- r-'ii— u > —n. tiu-i w
tried, and the fmaJ order ui<r-"u;« n jn^-t )e ii...Li- .1 «•
general term.
§2086. Where an ali'imirv" »—r r' nu" . 1 a* i.u. *• )i><» .»been issued, cost/- may Ik kwu-j'-' u- n y »•■ . n »•:. --ir » ■*■
that nprai miti-ir H titii,' nrn-tion of the court. Where fc }«-> -t; .1 r- ii.,;!i'...iim> >
granted, without a previou* a:^rx:.. •* naui'-uuiu. •..-!-.
not exceedins fifty dollars at', m.- -iLrvr.e:i:». oin-' w
awarded to efthfir parry, at- upm. a zti.o o.
§ 2087. An appeal from va> <i-tHr n*,"T.r 1 ie-»:nrj- 1. inn. -*.
tory writ of ntandanrOE. where ui b>n»—i:i;.-' ▼—i ■»" iwm
damuswasDot prerkintfT »hu<. in." k -;, i,-n 1* '- m
aflnalorder made in a «j*cia ;r««»:'Tr, 1 . ri«, -V-oi
a final order made upon ai a-v-nir— * 1 ;»;-i-.-i » - i'i«i >*
taken, as an appeal from a rj'jTi«ir f''. eir-' ;>■ •-•unii
of law, relating to an apiiet. frm. t ij'_>--.ii'-"- '" n*- •'• i«
general term or to theCoun of t-:n*aj> t> i;r.-r:i -n. n--:.-.
But where an appeal is iat«T. a* -r**—• '•»■••. 1: "k w-.ra.
from an order of the genera v—ru ri>--ri :,--■■*• ;u:rj
mandamus, made upon to. 'CAt^i- i.-.'-.r,- ,- i-r r '• >u •
final order, made upon ax ij'»tn:i . • * r;u:i'ji.v. u» j~;.' ■*"- t'
the general term, the ««• j r.a of -,t* -.i-v- v:>-^a.<"'. '-m.
shall not be stayed, exo-Tr, 1? -^i^ o-vr o* i«j ;>* "•» r't<""tterm, made upon such leaa, as v- (*'.:•._••>"; .c 0 .n'rv .*» at
justice requires.
§2088. WhereareRn. i:a» -«e-_ r:u'j» --. v- v;*— *- r^sl'ii-i
the writ of maiidaniui. ji*je-. vp-.c •> .-- ;t .•>• vf 1 ;r ■ i-.e
person, the court, vpoii mti: -.r ti'!. -r."- f— 1 >r-L- vtory mandamus, must ai»<'j";f •j^ r».t-"jr »•■ i.-?:i i»u'l
to the relator, agaiusl the a^*i.'.a--, t j- r . o- - • re". . n.,
the same damages, if ai.-T. Tij^^r* ;.">• • .•• - rf.'^er,
in an action agoiust tha; otfeii '.ti* f - <.* a f <. - : • • . t. Ti*
relator may require ii>- damw:«* v, ;>e a~-.--«ec -;>'- cLe
trial of an i««ue "f fact if *ije T«r7j '.", r»-i'.— '.^ ^'-*/.«'.«n
is in his faTOT. Where be if *e**j><! Vj a t La, 0'^«-r, for
any other cause, he may rewvire tben. v. V- &"lH»-'**;,; a*- ir. an
action. Such an asBeBbineiit <A daiuag'A bar* at w.i'jii for
a false return.
I 2089. The proceediiigs upon a ■» rit of rta^'iamus,
granted at a special term, may be stayed, at j :te lime for
making a return, or for doiug aLyoiber act thereupon,
ad present >ed in this article, may be enlarged, as in an
action, by an order made by a judge of the c urt. but not by
any other officer. Where the writ was granted at t he general
term, an order staying the proceeding, or enlarging the
^~
time to make a return," can be made only by a general term justice of the same department ; and where notice has been
given of an application for a mandamus at a general term,
or an order has been made to show cause, at a general term,
why a mandamus should not issue a star of proceedings
jthall not be granted, before the bearing, by any court or
Judge.
§ 209O. Where a final order awards a peremptory man
damus, directed to a public officer, board, or other body.
commanding him or them to perform a public duty en
joined upon him or them by special provision of law, if it
appears to the court, that the officer, or one or more mem
berg of the board or body, have, without just excuse, re
fused or neglected to perform the duty so enjoined, the
court, besides awarding to the relator his damages and
costs, as prescribed in this article, may, in the sime order,
impose a fine, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars.
upon the officer, or upon each member of the board, who
has so refused or neglected. The fine, when collected,
must be paid into the treasury of the Stat j ; and the pay
ment thereof bars any action for a p.-nalty, incurred by the
[Kjrson so fined, by reason of his refusal or neglect to per
form the duty so enjoined.
§ 2091. A writ of prohibition is cither alternative or
absolute. The alternative writ may lie granted upon an affi
davit, or other written proof, showing a proper case there
for and cithf r with or without previous notice of the ap
plication, as the court thinks proper.
§ 2092. Except where special provision therefore is
otherwise made in this article, an alternative writ of prohi
bition can be granted only at a special term of the court.
In the supreme couit, the special term must be one held
within the judicial district, embracing the county, wherein
the action is triable, or the special proceeding is brought,
in the course of which the matter, sought to be prohibited
by the writ, originated.
§ 2093. An alternative writ of prohibition may be
granted at a general term of the supreme court only, di
rected generally to any judge holding, or to hold, a special
term of the same court, or directed to one or more judges of the saiifr conn, named ihereh. it mry raw -w^nff imrt &
witi hut "tK- isHie*c cue n? tw- «uir~mt r-mr-i i;;~e.-uv. */■
idt other conn, nne k iuain ute-rr e" >u -i i ■*—r rsa bt
gruni/ed cmiy ct the feuem. tarni nf ui! i.i.n.-a. ,'eni.nmett, emlc-ucinr the c(»niiri -wn--v.il ;ik *.--:■. a. i> Tru.!>if..
or tb* fpeot^ ]iruetr,diii£ » lirnurii - n. ~in :-,il-"* .■■ wl.i.-L
the nun er, {mucin t. bt pruuinnc. i>< uk »ti; .r-.vnji.'.ii.
unkss iliiii caitrru. lerm »-iiir. it *e^,i 1. . it -» i.i.i. «rs<. i;
mar be jr:wir. "d ic un- gensra. lent .c at ad_' m..ij: ni.iicial depfcnjnem.
§ 2094. Except a* oilier*-w srie-iCy prf-vrC:**.' >y
law, an tOw.'.jit wr;. cif p:iuv!:i:.j ir (xuij; "!« is>j:\-.. v.ru)
anaitemaiii* wrn has i»eai wsu-a *i<3 c. y served «>.3
the retuxa dsy ther—crf ha*. eiiTwei. Tin * :-r.s;.ir wtn
rausl be dzroevd 10 lie our; -j. »u.-': ,t l. "■«• i-iicr be~
fore whom, and who ic uk j>tnT ji * j.i^ :'m it*. u«- pro
ceeding* to be lesErum-j were kk£<oi. or are *:•»..;! jo 1»
taken. Il mut oo-:.iuitn_ "be pen or vjr.^rr, »nd also
the party, tode isi and re; .-kin fr-ca say Ivr'-.r pTocoodings in toe adj'.-n or {^aecial pre* v.- I^i;. or -» : .a respect to
the particular Btuier or ti.'-nr oesor: - *-j tbcrv-:r., as t ho oas*
may be, until tbefuni»«-dire«.-u :ai of the ooum issuing the
writ ; and also to show can**, at the lime when, *».i the
place where, the wrii is made leruras: *\ why they shouM
not be ab-oluleiy restrained from acy further proceedings
in that action, special proceeding, or manor.
The writ
need not contain any ftaitoent of the facts or legal objec
tions, upon which tie relaior founds his claim to relief.
§ 2095. The writ must be made returnable, either
forthwith or at a day certain, before the term which
granted it, or upon the first day of a future term, therein
specified, at which application for the writ might have been
niaue. Where it is granted at the general term of a judi
cial department, adjoining that wherein the matter origi
nated, it may. inthediscretion of the court, be made return
able at the general term of either department.
The writ
must be served upon the court or judge, and also upon the
party, as prescribed by law for the service of an alternative
writ of mandamus. A copy of the papers, upon which it,
was granted, must be delivered with each copy of the writ.
§ 2096. Where the alternative writ bus been duly
served upon the court or judge, and upon the party, the
relator is en titled to an absolute writ, unless a return is made
by 1 he court or judge, and by the party, according to Hie
exigency of the alternative writ, or within such further
time as may be granted for the purpose. The return must,
be annexed to a copy of the writ ; and it. must, be either dc
livcred in open court, or filed in the ofllee of the clerk of
the court issuing the writ; or, in the supreme court, the
clerk of the county where the writ, is returnable. Where
the party makes a return, the court or judge, must also
make a return. In default thereof, tho judge or the mumbers of the court, may be punished, upon the application
of the people or of the relator, for a contempt of the court
issuing the writ. A return to an alternative writ of pro
hibition cannot be compelled in any other case.
§ 2097. An alternative writ of prohibition cannot be
quashed or set aside, upon motion, for any matter involv
ing the merits. An objection to the legal sufficiency of the
papers, upon which the writ was granted, may be taken in
the return. A motion to quash an absolute writ of prohi
bition, or to set aside an alternative writ, for any matter not
involving the merits, must be made at a term where the
writ might have been granted.
§ 2098. A return to an alternative writ, when made by
a party, must be verified by his affidavit, as required for
the verification of a pleading in a court of record ; unless it
consi3ts only of objections to the legal sufficiency of the
papers upon which the writ was granted. Where the pirly
unites with the court or judge in a return, or annexes, to
the court's or the judge's return, an instrument in writing,
subscribed by him, to the effect that he adopts it, and relies
upon the matters therein contained, as sufficient cause why
the court or judge should not be restrained, as mentioned
in the writ, he is thenceforth deemed the sole defendant in
the special proceeding ; except that where a final order is
made, awarding an absolute writ of prohibition, such a
writ must be directed to the party, and also to the court or
the judge.
§ 2099. Pleadings are not allowed upon a writ of pro
hibition. Where an alternative writ has been issued, the
cause may be disposed of without further notice, at the
term at which the writ is returnable. If it is not then dis
posed of, it may be brought to a hearing, upon notice, at a
subsequent term. In the supreme court.it must be heard
at a general term of the same judicial department, or at a
special term held in the same judicial district, as the case
may be. The relator may controvert, by affidavit, any alle
gation of new matter contained in the return. The court
may direct the trial of any question of fact by a jury, in
like manner and with like effect, as where an order is made
for the trial, by a jury, of issues of fact, joined in an action
triable by the court. Where such a direction is given, the
proceedings must be the same, as upon the trial of issues so
joined in an action.
§ 2100. Where a final order is made in favor of the
relator, it must award an absolute writ of prohibition ; and
it may also direct that all proceedings, or any specified pro
ceeding, theretofore taken in the action, special proceeding,
or matter, as to which the prohibition absolute issues, be
vacated and annulled. The writ of consultation is abol
ished. Where a final order is made against the relator, it
must authorize the court or judge, and the adverse party,
to proceed in the action, special proceeding, or matter, as
If the alternative writ bad not been issued. Costs, not ex
ceeding fifty dollars and disbursements, may be awarded to
either party, as upon a motion.
§ 2101. A final order, made as prescribed in the last
section, can be reviewed only by appeal. Where the order
was made by the general term, the execution of the order
appealed from shall not be stayed, except by an order of
the same general term, made upon such terms, as to security
or otherwise, as justice requires..
§ SI 02. The proceedings upon a writ of prohibition,
granted at a special term, may be stayed, and the time for
making a return, or for doing any other act thereupon, as
prescribed in this article, may be enlarged as in an action,
by an order made by the judge of the court, but not by
any other officer. Where the writ was granted at the gen
eral term, an order staying the proceedings, or enlarging
the time to make a return, can be made only by a general
term justice of the judicial department within which the
writ is returnable ; and where notice has been given of an
application for a prohibition at a general term, or an order
has been made to show cause at a general term, why a pro
hibition should not issue, a stay of proceedings shall not be
granted, before the hearing, by any court or judge.
§ 2103. The writ, heretofore known as the writ of ad
quod damnum, shall hereafter be styled the writ of assess
ment of damages,
§ 2104. Whenever the governor of the State is authorized
by law, to take possession of any real property within the
State, for the use of the people of the State, and he cannot
agree with the owner or owners thereof for its purchase,
he may cause application to be made to the supreme court,
at a special term thereof, for a writ of assessment of dam
ages, which must be granted accordingly.
§ 2105. The Attorney-General, or the district-attorney
of the county in which the real property is situated, must,
when the governor so directs, make the application, in the name of the governor ; and must conduct the subsequent
proceedings, uuder the governor's direction.
§ 2106. The writ must be directed to the sheriff of the
county in which the real property to be taken is situated,
unless the court directs the damages for the taking to be
assessed by a jury of another county ; in which case, the
writ must be issued to the sheriff of the county, from which
the jury h directed to be taken.
§ 2107. The writ must describe the real property to lie
taken, with the like certainty as is required in a complaint
in an action of ejectment. It must command the sheriff, to
whom it is directed, to inquire, by the oaths of twelve me.1
of his county, qualified to act as trial jurors in a court of
record, whether the owner or owners of the real property, or
any of them, will sustain any damages by the taking thereof,
for the use of the people of the State ; and. if so, the amount
thereof ; and that he return the writ to the supreme court,
without delay, with the finding of the jury thereupon.
§2108. The sheriff, immediately after the delivery of
the writ to him, must give notice of the time when, and
the place where, the writ will.be executed, by publishing
the notice, once in each week, for at least three successive
weeks, in a newspaper printed in his county.
§ 2109. The sheriff must notify twelve men of hie
county, qualified to act as trial jurors in a court of record,
to attend at the time and place, and for the purpose, speci
fied in the notice. Each juror must be notified, as a juror
is notified to attend a term of the circuit court. Upon his
failure to attend, when duly notified, his attendance may
be compelled by attachment, and proceedings may be taken
against him, and he may be punished thereupon, by the
supreme court, as where a juror, duly notified, fails to
attend at a circuit court. The sheriff may require the at
tendance of a talesman, in place of a juror notified and
not appearing ; or he may adjourn the proceedings, for
the purpose of punishing the defaulting juror, or comi«lling his attendance.
§ 2110. When a jury has been procured, the sheriff
must, before the jurors proceed to the inquiry commanded
by the writ, administer to each of them an oath, that he
will diligently inquire concerning the matters specified in
the writ, and will give a true verdict, according to the be?t
of his judgment, without favor or partiality.
§ 2111. After being sworn as prescribed in the last sec
tion, the jury must view nil the real property described in
the writ, and consider the value thereof. They may, in
the discretion of a majority of them, hear such testimony
as may be offered by any person appearing, respecting the
value. They must thereupon assess the damages, which
the owner or owners of the real property will sustain, by
being deprived thereof. When the real property consists of two or more distinct parcels, owned, or claimed to be
owned, by different persons, the jury must assess separately
the value of each distinct parcel, if the writ requires them
so to do, or if a majority of them think proper so to do.
If they cannot agree, after it reasonable time, the sheriff
may discharge them, and publish a new notice, and pro
cure a new jury. When the jurors have agreed, they must
make an inquisition, stating the sum to be paid, by the
people of the State, for taking each distinct parcel, or the
whole, as the case requires. The inquisition must be
signed by each juror, and by the sheriff ; and the sheriff
must immediately thereafter file the inquisition and the
writ, with his return to the writ, in the office of the clerk
of the county in which the real property is situated.
§ 2112. Within three months after the writ, and the
return thereto, with the inquisition thereupon, have been
filed, as prescribed in the last section, the A ttorney-Qeneral,
or district-attorney, having charge of the proceedings,
must cause to be published, a notice, directed, generally, to
all the owners and persons interested in the real property ;
describing the property, in general and concise terms ;
stating wlien and where the writ, return, and inquisition
were filed ; and requiring the persons notified to show
cause, at a special term of the supreme court, to be held at a
time and at a place specified in the notice., why the inqui
sition should not be confirmed ; or, if the governor so
directs, why the inquisition should not be set aside. The
notice must be published, at least once in each week, for
three successive weeks, in a newspaper printed in the
county, and also in the newspaper printed at Albany, in
which legal notices are required to be published.
§ 21 13. At the time and place specified in the notice,
the court must examine into the inquisition, and hear such
allegations, and affidavits, or other written proofs, as may
be presented in behalf of the people, or any owner, or
person interested. If the court then, or at the time and
place to which the matter is adjourned, determines that the
inquisition is, in any respect, excessive, unjust, or other
wise materially defective, it may set aside the whole or any
part thereof ; and may direct that annthcr writ issue, or
another inquisition be taken, to supply the defects.
§ 2114. If it appears to the court, that the writ has
been duly executed, an order must be made, and entered
in the office of the clerk of the county, in which the real
property to be taken is situated, declaring that the people
of the State, upon paying into court the amount of the
damages assessed by the inquisition, shall be entitled to an
absolute estate in the real property described in the writ,
and in the appurtenances belonging thereto.
§2115. The State treasurer, on the warrant of the
comptroller, must pay to the governor, out of any money
in the treasury, appropriated lor that purpose, sufficient money to pay the damages assessed, pursuant to the forego
ing provisions of this article, and the costs and expenses of
the proceedings.
§ 2116. Immediately after the receipt by the governor.
as prescribed in the last section, of sufficient money to pay
the damages, he must pay it into court ; and thereupon Hie
absolute title to the real property so to be taken, vests in the
people of the State.
§ 2117. If an application for the money paid into cnur:
is not made, as prescribed in the next section, within sixty
days after the payment into court, the geueral term of the
supreme court in that judicial department, may pro
vide, by order, for the investment, under the direction of
the court, of the money, and of the interest to arise there
from, in permanent securities, for the benefit of the
owners.
§ 21 18. A person claiming to have been an owner of,
or interested in, the property, when it was so taken, may
present to the supreme court, at a general term thereof,
held in the judicial department embracing the county,
wherein the propeity is situated, a petition, praying for
payment to him of the whole or any part of the money so
paid into court, or of the income remaining uninvested, or
both ; or for the transfer to him of the whole or any part
of the securities, in which it has been invested. The court
must thereupon take such measures, as it deems proper, to
ascertain the rights and interesls of the petitioner, and of all
other persons, who were owners of or interested in the
property, or who are personal representatives, or heirs, of
owners or persons so interested, and to cause notice of the
application to be given to those persons ; and it must cause
the money to be paid, or the securities to be transferred, to
the several persons entitled thereto, in accordance with the
rights and interests thus ascertained.
§2119. When the legislature of the State cousents to
the taking of any real properly within the State, for the
use of the people of the United States, a writ of assessment
of damages may be issued ; and the proceedings thereupon
must be in accordance with the provisions of this article ;
except that the application for the writ must be made, anil
the subsequent proceedings must be conducted, by the
attorney of the United States, for the district embracing the
county wherein the real property is situated.
§ 21£0. The v rit of certiorari regulated in this article,
except the writ specified in section two thousand one hun
dred and twenty-four of this act, is issued to review the
determination of a body or officer. It can be issued in one
of the following cases only :
1 . Where the right to the writ is expressly conferred, or
the issue thereof is expressly authorized, by a statute.
2. W here the writ may be issued at common law, by a
court of general jurisdiction, and the right to the writ, or
the power of the court to issue it, is not expressly taken
away by a statute.
§ 2121. A writ of certiorari cannot be issued, to review
a determination, made, after this article takes effect, in a
civil action or special proceeding, by a court of record, or
a judge of a court of record.
§ 2128. Except as otherwise expressly prescribed by a
statute, a writ of certiorari cannot be issued, in either of
the following cases :
1. To review a determination, which does not finally
determine the rights of the parties, with respect to the mat
ter to be reviewed.
2. Where the determination can be adequately reviewed,
by an appeal to a court, or to some other body or officer.
3. Where tlie body or officer, making the determination, is expressly authorized, by statute, to rehear the matter, upon the relator's application ; unless the determination
to be reviewed was made upon a rehearing, or the time
within which the relator can procure a rehearing has
elapsed.
§ 2123. A writ of certiorari can be issued only out of
the supreme court, or a superior city court ; except in a
case where another court is expressly authorized by statute
to issue it.
§ 2124. Any court of record, exercising jurisdiction of
an appellate nature, may issue a writ of certiorari, requir
ing the body or officer whose proceedings are under review,
to make a return to the court issuing the writ, at a time and
place, fixed by the court, and designated in the writ, for
the purpose of supplying any diminution, variance, or
other defect, in the record or other papers, before the court
issuing the writ, in any case where justice requires that the
defect should be supplied, and adequate relief cannot be
obtained by means of an order.
§ 2126. Subject to the provisions of the next section, a
w"* °^ certiorari to review a determination must be granted
and served, within four calendar months after the determination to be reviewed becomes final and binding, upon
the relator, or the person whom he represents, either in law
or in fact.
§2126. The court, at a general term thereof, may
grant the writ, at any time within twenty months after the
expiration of the time limited in the last section, where the
relator, or the person whom he represents, was, at the time
when the determination to be reviewed became final and
binding upon him, either
1. Within the age of twenty-one years ; or
2. Insane ; or
8. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution
upon conviction of a criminal offense, for a term less than
for life.
§ 2127. An application for the writ must be made by,
or in behalf of, a person aggrieved by the determination to
be reviewed ; must be founded upon an affidavit, or a veri
fied petition, which may be accompanied by other written
proof ; and must show a proper case for the issuing of the
writ. It can be granted only at a general or special term
of the court ; and the granting or refusal thereof is dis
cretionary with the court.
§ 2128. Until provision is made, in the general rules of
practice, for requiring, or dispensing with notice of the
application for the writ, the court, to which the application
for the writ is made, may, in its discretion, require or dis
pense with notice. A notice, when it is necessary, must
be served, with copies of the papers upon which the appli
cation is to be made, upon the body or officer, whose
determination is to be reviewed, or upon such other person
as the court directs, as prescribed in this article for the
service of a writ of certiorari. The service must be made,
at least eight days before the application, unless the court,
by an order to show cause, prescribes a shorter time.
Where notice is given, the person served may produce affi
davits or other written proofs, upon the merits, in opposition
to the application.
§ 2129. The writ must be directed to the body or
officer, whose determination is to be reviewed ; or to any
other person having the custody of the record or other
papers to be certified ; or to both, if necessary. Where it
is brought to review the determination of a board or body.
P 2 !«*• ^ . -'. ' -.., ^ serrioe truiwit. s>« tho ortuv >M
T^J^iW^n-'lf it w^is>red fnw iho wjxromo
Herkof"ttewnt.. debated therein. irhwl» Ih* d.tor
Sntobe reviewed was made ; W»i if ttoMWmly,
dS^dfatiie writ. i« not the proper fonnty . tho ««,„,,
^ fmoHon, may amend the writ awmlmjlv. I hwM
Triton file must l»e transform! to tho eWk ot tho
cou^y?" here the writ is made returnahlo hy Hi.. ntiwiHl
"ITfilSS After a writ of certiorari has Wn Nmioil, Iho »t N V
time"tomato a return thereto may ho enla^l, or Nit)
M
»'X
other order may be made, or riiweedlitK taken, i„ tin
cause, in relation to any matter not provided for in this
article, as a similar proceeding may be taken in an action,
brought in the same court, and triable in the county where
the writ is returnable.
§ 2 1 34. The clerk, with whom a writ of certiorari is filed,
and each person, upon whom a writ of certiorari is served,
as prescribed in section two thousand one hundred and
thirty of this act. must make and annex to the writ, or to the
copy thereof served upon him, a return, with the transcript
annexed, and certified by him, of the record or proceedings,
and a statement of the other matters, specified in and
required by the writ. The return must be filed in the
office where the writ is returnable, according to the com
mand thereof.
.
§ 2135. If a return is defective, the court may direct a
further return. An omission to make a return, as required
by a writ of certiorari, or hy an order for a further return,
may be punished, as a contempt of the court. But a judge
or clerk shall not be thus punished, unless the relator, be
fore the time when the return is required, pays him, for
his return, the sum of two dollars, and, in addition, ten
cents for each folio of the copies of papers required to be
returned.
§ 2136. A writ of certiorari may be issued to, and a re
turn to a writ of certiorari may be made by, an officer,
whose term of office has expired. Such an officer may
be punished for a failure to make a return ti the writ,
as required thereby ; or to make a further return, as re
quired by an or.ler for that purpose.
§ 2137. Upon the application of a person, specially and
beneficially interested in upholding the determination to be
reviewed, the court may, in ils discretion, admit him as a
party defendant in the special proceeding, upon such terms
as justice requires. And a general term of the court, at
which the cause is noticed for hearing, and is placed upon
the calendar, may, in a proper case, direct that notice of
the pendency of the spi rial proceeding be given to any
person, in such a manner as it thinks proper ; and may
suspend the hearing until notice is given accordingly.
:wiinn,2!i9.
§2138. The cause must be heard at a general term of
in Abb. N. the court. In the supreme court, it must be heard at a
too 'If Y 04 general term, held within the judicial department, embrac
ing the county where the writ was returnable. Either
party may notice it for hearing, at any time after thereturn is compl' to. Except as prescribed in the next section,
it must be beard upon the writ and return, anil the papers
upon which the writ was giauted.
§ 2139. If thcofficeror otherperson, whose duly it isto
make a return, dies, absconds, removes from the State, orbe^i
comes insane, after the writ is issued, and before making a re
turn, or after making an insufficient return ; and it appears that there is no other officer or person, from whom a sufficient
return can be procured liy means of a new certiorari ; the
court may, in its discretion, permit affidavits, or other writ
ten proofs, relating to the matters not sufficiently returned,
(o be produced, and may hear the cause accordingly. The
court may also, in its discretion, permit either party to pro
duce affidavits, or other written proofs, relating to any
alleged error of fact, or any other question of fact, which is
essential to the jurisdiction of the body or officer, to make
the determination to be reviewed, where the facts, in rela
tion thereto, are not sufficiently stated in the return, and
the court is satisfied that, they cannot be made to appear, by
means of an order for a further return.
§ 2 140. The questions, involving the merits, to be de- 13 Week.
termincd by the court upon the hearing, are the following, Dig. 80. ■
omy :
1. Whether the body or officer had jurisdiction of the
subject-matter of the determination under review.
2. Whether the authority, conferred upon the body or
officer, in relation to that subject-matter, has been pursued
in the mode required by law, in order to authorize it or him
to make die determination.
3. Whether, in making the determination, any rule of
law, affecting the rights of the parties thereto, has been
violated, to th e prejudice of the relator.
4. Whether there was any competent proof of all the facts,
necessary to be proved, in order to'authorize the making of
the determination.
5. If there was such proof, whether there was, upon all
the evidence, such a preponderance of proof, against the
existence of any of those facts, that the verdict of a jury,
affirming the existence thereof, rendered in an action in
the supreme court, triable by a jury, would be set aside
by the court, as against the weight of evidence.
§ 2141. The court, upon the hearing, may make a final
order, annulling or confirming, wholly or partly, or modi
fying, the determination reviewed, as to any or all of the
parties.
§ 2142. Where the determination reviewed is annulled
or modified, the court may order and enforce restitution, in
li'ie manner, with like effect and subject to the same con
ditions, as where a judgment is reversed upon appeal.
§ 2143. Costs, not exceeding fifty dollars and disburse
ments, may be awarded by the final order, in favor of or
against either party, in the discretion of the court.
§ 2144. The final order'of the court upon the certiorari
must be entered in the office of the clerk where the writ
was returnable. But before it can be enforced, an enroll
ment thereof must be filed. For that purpose, the clerk
must attach together, and file in his office, the papers upon
which the cause was heard ; a certified copy of the final
order ; and a certified copy of each order, which in any
•way involves the merits, or necessarily affects the final
order.
§ 2145. The filing of the enrollment in the office of the
clerk where the final order is entered, as prescribed in the
last section, is a sufficient authority for any proceeding, by
or before the body which, or the officer who, made the
determination reviewed, which the final order of the court
directs or permits. But where the execution of the final
order is stayed by an appeal to the Court of appeals, the
proceedings below are stayed in like manner.
§ 2146. The expression, "body or officer", as used in
this article, includes every court, tribunal, board, corpora
tion, or other person, or aggregation of persons, whose
determination may be reviewed by a writ of certiorari , and
the word, "determination ", as used in this article, includes
every judgment, order, decision, adjudication, or other act
of such a body or officer, which is subject to be so reviewed.
§ 2147. Where the right to a writ of certiorari is ex
pressly conferred, or the issuing thereof is expressly author
ized, by a statute, passed before, and remaining in force
after, this arlicle takes effect, this article does not vary, or
affect in any manner, any provision of the former statute,
which expressly prescribes a different regulation, with re
spect to any of the proceedings upon the certiorari to be
issued thereunder.
§ 2148. This article-is not applicable to a writ of cer
tiorari, brought to review a determination made iD any
criminal matter, except a criminal contempt of court.
§ 2149. An insolvent debtor, who is a resident of the
isi'nymi State at tne ,mle of presenting his petition, may be dis' ' charged from his debts, as prescribed in this article.
§ 1164, Con§ 2150. Application for such a discharge must be made,
sol. Act.
],y tne petition of the insolvent, addressed to the county
court of the county in which he resides ; or, if he resides
in the city of New York, to the court of common pleas for
that city and county.
§ 2151. The petition must be in writing; it must be signed
by the insolvent, and specify his residence ; it must set forth,
in substance, that he is unable to pay all his debts in full ;
that he is willing to assign his property for the benefit of all
his creditors, and, in all other respects, to comply with the
provisions of this article, for the purpose of being dis
charged from his debts ; and it must pray that, upon his so
doing, he may be discharged accordingly. It must be veri
fied by the affidavit of the insolvent, annexed thereto,
taken on the day of the presentation thereof, to the effect,
that the petition is in all respects true, in matter of fact.
§ 2152. The petitioner must annex to his petition one
or more written instruments, executed by one or more of
his creditors, residing in the United States, having debts
owing to him or them in good faith, then due or thereafter
to hecjme due, which amount to not less than two thirds
of all the debt s, owing by the petitioner to creditors residing
within the United States. Each instrument must be to
the effect, that the person or corporation, executing
It, consents to the discharge of the petitioner from his
debts, upon his complying with the provisions of this
article.
§ 2153. An executor or administrator may become a
consenting creditor, under the order of the surrogate's court'
from which his letters issued. A trustee, official, assignee,
or receiver of the property of a creditor of the petitioner,
whether created by operation of law or by the act of parties,
may become a consenting creditor, under the order of a
justice of the supreme court. A person who becomes a
consenting creditor, as prescribed in this section, is charge
able only for the sum which he actually receives, as a divi
dend of the insolvent's property.
t: 2154. Where a corporation or joint-stock association
becomes a consenting creditor, its consent must be executed
under its common seal, and may be attested by any director
or other officer thereof, duly authorized for that purpose ;
who may make any affidavit, required of a creditor in the
proceedings.
§ 2155. Where a partnership becomes a consenting
creditor, the consent may be executed in its behalf, and any
affidavit, required of a creditor in the proceedings, may be
made, by either of the partners.
§ 2166. A creditor's consent does not affect his remedy against any person or persons indebted jointly with the
petitioner ; and the petitioner's discharge has the effect,
as between the creditor and the other joint debtors, of a
composition between the petitioner and the creditor, made
as prescribed in article third of title fifth of chapter fifteenth
of this act.
§2157. Where a consenting creditor is the purchaser
or assignee of a debt against a petitioner, or the executor,
administrator, trustee, or receiver of such a purchaser or
assignee, he is deemed, for all the purposes of this article,
except as to the declaration and receipt of dividends, a
creditor only to the amount, actually and in good faiih
paid for the debt, by him, or by the decedent or other
person, from whom he derives title, and remaining uncol
lected. This section is not affected by the recovery of a
judgment for the debt, after the purchase or assignment ;
but in that case the consenting creditor may include the
uncollected costs, as if they were part of the sum paid for
the debt.
§ 2158. A creditor who has, in his own name, or in
trust for him, a mortgage, judgment, or other security, for
the payment of a sum of money, which is a lien upon, or
otherwise affects, real or personal property belonging to the
petitioner, or transferred by him since the lien was created,
cannot become a consenting creditor, with respect to the
debt so secured, unless he adds to or includes in his consent,
a written declaration, under his hand, to the effect, that he
relinquishes the mortgage, judgment, or other security, so
far as it affects that property, to the trustee to be appointed
pursuant to the petition, for the benefit of all the creditors.
Such a declaration operates, to that extent, as an assignment
to the trustee, of the mortgage, judgment, or other security ;
and vests in him accordingly all the right and interest of
the consenting creditor therein.
§ 2159. If a creditor knowingly swears, in any pro
ceedings authorized by this article, that the petitioner is,
or will become, indebted to him, in a sum of money, which
is not really due, or thereafter to become due ; or in more
than the true amount ; or that more was paid for a debt,
which was purchased or assigned, than the sum, actually
and in good faith paid therefore ; he forfeits to the trustee,
to be recovered in an action, twice the sum, so falsely
sworn to.
§ 2160. The consent of a creditor must be accompanied
with his affidavit, stating as follows :
1. That the petitioner is justly indebted to him, or will
become indebted to him, at a future day specified therein,
in a sum therein specified ; and, if he, or the person from
whom he derives title, is or was the purchaser or assignee
of the debt, he must also specify the sum, actually and in
good faith paid for the debt, as prescribed in section two
thousand one hundred and fifty-seven of this act, 2. The nature of the demand, and whether it arose upon
written security, or otherwise, with the general ground or
consideration of the indebtedness.
3. That neither he, nor any person to his use, has re
ceived from the petitioner, or from any other person, pay
ment of a demand, or any part thereof, in money or in any
other way, or any gift or reward of any kind, upon an exEress or implied trust, confidence, or understanding, that
e should consent to the discharge of the petitioner.
Where a consenting creditor is an executor, administra
tor, trustee, receiver, or assignee, he may state the neces
sary facts, in his affidavit, upon information and belief,
setting forth therein the grounds of his belief ; but in that
case, the consent must also be accompanied with the affi
davit of the insolvent, to the effect, that all the matters of
fact stated in the affidavit of the consenting creditor, are
true.
§ 2161. [Am'd 1889.] A consenting creditor, residing
without the State, and within the United States, must an
nex to his consent the original accounts, or sworn copies
thereof, and the original specialties or other written securi
ties, if any, upon which his demand arose or depends; pro
vided, however, that when such original specialties, or
other written securities, are lost, such fact must be stated
as a reason for not annexing thereto the consent, and the
fact of the loss, and the manner of the loss thereof must be
stated in the affidavit of the creditor to the best of his
knowledge, or must be otherwise proved by affidavit to the
satisfaction of the court; and the court may thereupon, in
such case or proceeding by its order, dispense with the an
nexing to such consent of the original specialties or other
written securities.
§ 2162. The petitioner must annex to his petition a
schedule, containing :
1. A full and true account of all his creditors.
2. A statement of the place of residence of each creditor,
if it is known ; or, if it is not known, a statement of that
fact.
8. A statement of the sum which he owes to each cred
itor, and the nature of each debt or demand, whether
arising on written security, on account, or otherwise.
4. A statement of the true cause and consideration of his
indebtedness to each creditor, and the place where the in
debtedness accrued.
5. A statement of any existing judgment, mortgage, or
collateral or other security, for the payment of the debt.
<i. A full and true inventory of all his property, in law
or in equity, of the encumbrances existing thereon, and of
all the nooks, vouchers, and securities, relating thereto.
§ 2163. An affidavit, in the following form, subscribed
and taken by the petitioner before the county judge, or, in
the city of New York, before the judge holding the term
1. Tbe jietra:'DfT jl^k f:.j* a f^py tl-rywf h> V p\i<>lisbed in a nnrsfmjer. descT^.:<-.i in \\.c oivVr. ^\»l\Mvh,>) («
theotwutT; ai>d abo. if nDt-f. unh jwiil of \hc in«.0\«nl\i
debts accrued or are due 10 creditors rt-sidinc in l)io . >t\ of
New Tort in «neir?pflr>erpijNi>ht>l in lhM oily, di^ifji'iiod
in tbe order. The j>ul licari^n must bo msdo hi lessl ono<»
in each of len weeks, immediately prtvodiut: tbo dnv t«
which cause i« to be shown, unless all the ot^lilora tv<«id<»
within one hundred miles of the place wbero cmixo is to Iw
shown, in which ca«e the publication must !x» i»<«d<> Ht lertrt
once in each of the six weeks, immediately pitvcdinn llml
day.
2. The petitioner must also serve upon each croilltof, w. wtbm.MMt
sidinff within the United States, whose place of residence la
known to him. a copy of the order" to show cause, eillior
personally, at least twenty days Itefore the d«y when enii»n
is to l>e shown, or by depositing iu at lenst forty daysbefotti
thatday, in the post-office, inclosed in n |»>sl jwid wmppei',
addressed to the creditor at his usual place of residence.
Where the State is a creditor of the petitioner a copy of
the order must be served upon the Attorney Ucncral. who
must represent the State in the subsequent proceedings.
§ 21C6. On the day specified in the order, and before any
Other proceedings are taken in the matter, the petilmuur must present to the court and file with the clerk, proof, to
the satisfaction of the court, that the order has been pub
lished and served, as prescribed in the last section ; and
thereupon, on the same day, or upon the day to which the
hearing is adjourned, the court must hear the allegations
and proofs of the parties appearing. Proof of personal
service of a copy of the order upon any person, must be
made, in like manner as proof of personal service of a sum
mons, in an action brought in the supreme court.
§ 2167. Where the insolvent's discharge is opposed, the
court may direct the special proceeding to be placed upon
the calendar for trial. In that case, the parties must ap
pear, and the proceedings are the same, as in an action, ex
cept as otherwise prescribed in this article ; and costs, as in
an action, except for proceedings before notice of trial, may
be awarded to either party, in the discretion of the court.
§ 2168. In order to entitle a creditor to oppose the dis
charge of the insolvent, he must, on the day fixed to show
cause, or at such other time as the court directs, file
with the clerk a specification of his objections ; and
he may then, but not afterwards, demand a trial, by
a jury, of the questions of fact arising thereupon.
If a trial by a jury is not then demanded, the
questions of fact must be tried by the court, without a jury.
Where ouo- or two or more opposing creditors demands a
trial by a jury, all the material questions of fact, arising
upon the objections of all the creditors, must be tried in
like manner, and at the same time. The court may, in its
discretion, direct the questions to be settled, and plainly
stated, in an order, as where an order is made by the
supreme court, in an action pending therein, for the trial
of questions of fact by a jury.
§ 2 1 69. Where the name of an opposing creditor does not
appear in the schedule, he must file, with the specification
of his objections, proof, by affidavit, that he is a creditor ;
and, if his debt is not set forth in the schedule, he must
also file his affidavit, to the effect specified in subdivision
first and second of section two thousand one hundred and
sixty of this act.
S2170. There shall be but one trial by jury. If the
jurors cannot agree, after being kept together for such a
time as the court deems reasonable, the court must dis
charge them, and determine the questions of fact, or those
questions as to which the jurors have not agreed, upon the
evidence taken before the jury, as if a jury had not been
demanded.
§ 2171. Where the petitioner's wife resides without the
State, the court, or a judge thereof out of court, may, upon
the application of any creditor, make an order, requiring
the petitioner to bring his wife before the court, at the hear
ing or trial, to the end that she may be examined as a witowed, at the time of presenting his petition, to creditors
residing within the United States.
2. That he has honestly and fairly given a true account
of his property.
8. That he has, in all things, conformed to the matters
required of him by this article.
£ 2175. The order must designate one or more trustees,
residents of the State ; and must direct the petitioner to
execute, to him or them, an assignment of all his property,
at law or in equity, in possession, reversion, or remainder,
excepting only so much thereof, as is exempt by law from
levy and sale, by virtue of an execution. The assignment
must be acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like man
ner as a deed to be recorded in the county, and must be re
corded in the clerk's office of the county. Where it appears,
from the schedule or otherwise, that real property will pass
thereby, it must be recorded also as a deed, in the proper
office for recording deeds, of each county where the real
property is situated.
§ 2176. The trustee or trustees may be nominated by a
majority in amount of the consenting creditors. If no per
son is so nominated, one or more persons must be appointed
by the court for the purpose. The nomination may be in
cluded in the consent, or made in a separate paper, or orally
upon the hearing or trial, and entered in the minutes.
§ 2177. The assignment vests in the trustee or trustees
all the petitioner's interest, legal or equitable, at the time of
its execution, in any real or personal property, not exempt
by law from levy and sale by virtue of an execution ; and
any contingent interest which may vest within three years
thereafter. When a contingent interest so vests, it passes to
the trustee, in the same manner as it would have vested in
the petitioner, if he had not made an assignment.
§ 2178. Upon the production by the petitioner of a cer
tificate of the trustee or trustees, duly acknowledged or
proved, and certified, in like manner as a deed to be re
corded in the county, to the effect, that the insolvent
has assigned, for the benefit of all his creditors, all his
property so directed to be assigned, and all the books,
vouchers, and papers relating thereto, and that he has
delivered so much thereof as is capable of delivery ; and
also of a certificate of the county clerk, that the assignment
has been duly recorded in his office ; the court must grant
to the insolvent a discharge from his debts, which has the
effect declared in the following sections of this article.
§2179. If a trustee refuses or neglects, upon payment
or tender by the petitioner of the expense of so doing, to i
execute or acknowledge a certificate, as prescribed in the
last section, or to cause the assignment to be recorded, as
therein prescribed, the court, upon proof by affidavit of the
facts, must make an order, requiring the trustee to show cause, at a time and place therein specified, why the peti
tioner should not be discharged, notwithstanding his neglect
or refusal ; and why the trustee's appointment should not
be revoked.
§ 2180. If, upon the return of the order, it appears that
the assignment has been duly executed, and that the peti
tioner has duly delivered all his property directed to be
assigned, and all the books, vouchers, and papers relating
thereto, which are capable of delivery, the court may,
either
1. Grant a discharge of the petitioner, notwithstanding
the neglect or refusal of the trustee ; or
2. Make an order, revoking the appointment of the
trustee. Upon the entry of such an order, the powers of
the trustee, and his interest in the assigned property, cease.
If there is no other trustee, the court must, by the same or
another order, appoint one or more new trustees. Such an
appointment has the same effect, as if the person or persons
so appointed were named as trustees in the original assign
ment.
§ 2181. The discharge, and the petition, affidavits,
orders, schedule, and other papers, upon which the dis
charge is granted, exclusive of the minutes of testimony,
must be recorded in the clerk's office of the county, within
three months after the discharge is granted. In default
thereof, the discharge becomes inoperative, from and after
that time. The original discharge, the record thereof, or a
transcript of the record duly authenticated, is conclusive
evidence of the proceedings and facts therein contained.
The other papers specified in this section, the record there
of, or a transcript of the record duly authenticated, are pre
sumptive evidence of the proceedings and facts therein con
tained.
§2182. [Am'dlSSS.] Except as prescribed in the next MiN.Y.Ml.
two sections, a discharge, granted as prescribed in this
article, exonerates and discharges the petitioner from every
debt due at the time when he executed his assignment, in
cluding a debt contracted before that time, though payable
afterward, and from every liability incurred by him, by
making or indorsing a promissory note, or by accepting,
drawing or indorsing a bill of exchange, before the execu
tion of the assignment, or incurred by him in consequence
of the payment, by any party to such a note or bill, of the
whole or any part of the money secured thereby, whether
the payment is made before or after the execution of the
assignment. At any time alter one year has elapsed, since
the recording of the discharge, and the petition, affidavits,
( rders, schedu le and other papers upon w hieh the discharge
v as granted, as prescribed in section twenty one hundred
and eighty-one of this act, the petitioner may apply, upon
proof of his discharge, to the court in which a judgment
shall have been rendered against him, for an order directing the judgment to be canceled and discharged of record. If
it appears that he has heen discharged from the payment of
that judgment, an order must be made accordingly, and
thereupon the clerk must cancel and discharge the docket
thereof, as if the proper satisfaction piece of the judgment
was filed. Notice of the application, accompanied with
copies of the papers upon which it is made, must be given
to the judgment creditor, unless his written consent to the
granting of the order, with satisfactory proof of the execu
tion thereof, and if he is not the party in whose favor the
judgment was rendered, that he is the owner thereof, is
presented to the court upon the application.
§ 2183. In either of the following cases, such a dis
charge does not affect a debt or liability, founded upon a
contract, unless it was owing, when the petition was pre
sented, to a resident of the State ; or the creditor has execu
ted a consent to the discharge ; or has appeared in the pro
ceedings ; or has received a dividend from the trustee :
•
1. Where the contract was made with a person, not a
resident of the State.
2. Where it was made and to be performed without the
State.
3. Where the creditor was not, at the time of the dis
charge, a resident of the State.
§ 2184. Such a discharge does not affect :
1 . A debt or duty to the United States ; or
2. A debt or duty to the State, for tax:s or for money re
ceived or collected by any person as a public officer, or in
a fiduciary capacity, or a cause of action specified in section
one thousand nine hundred and sixty-nine of this act, or a
judgment recovered upon such a cau^e of action.
Except as prescribed in this section, the discharge exon
erates the petitioner from a debt or other liability to the
State, in like manner and to the same extent, as from a debt
or liability to an individual.
g 2185. if, at the time when the discharge is granted,
the petitioner is under arrest, by virtue of an execution
against his person issued, or an order of arrest made, in an
action or special proceeding, founded upon a debt or liabil
ity from which he is discharged, as described in the fore
going sections of this article, he must be released from the
arrest, upon producing to the officer his discharge, or a
certified copy of the record thereof. If tlte adverse party
wishes to lest, the validity of the discharge, be may procure
a new order of arrest, or cause a new execution to be issued,
as the case requires. '
tj 2186. [Am'd IH90.] A discbarge, granted as pre
scribed in this article, is void, in either of the following
cases :
1. Where the petitioner willfully swears falsely, in the
affidavit annexed to his petition or schedule, or upon his examination, in relation to any material fact, concerning
his property or his debts, or to any other material fact.
2. Where, after presenting his petition, he sells, or in any
way transfers or assigns, any of his property, or collects
any debt or demand owing to him. and does not give a just
and true account thereof, upon th" hearing or trial, and
does not pay the money so collected, or the value of the
property so "sold, transferred, or assigned, as prescribed in
this nrticle.
3. Where he secretes any part of his property, or a book,
voucher, or paper relating thereto, with intent to defraud
his creditors.
4. Where he fraudulently conceals the name of any
creditor, or the sum owing to any creditor, or fraudulently
misstates such a sum.
5. Where, in order to obtain his discharge he procures
any person to become a consenting creditor, willfully, inten
tionally and knowingly, for a sum not due from him to
that person in good faith, or for a sum greater than that
for which the holder of a demand, purchased or assigned,
is deemed a creditor, as prescribed in this article.
6. Where he pays, or consents to the payment of, any
portion of the debt or demand of a creditor, or grants or
consents to the granting of any gift or reward to a creditor,
upon an express or implied contract, trust, or understand
ing, that the creditor so paid or rewarded should be a con
senting credi'or, or should abstain or desist from opposing
the discharge.
7. Where he is guilty of any fraud whatsoever, contrary
to the true intent of this article.
§ 2187. "Where a person, who has been discharged as
"prescribed in this article, is afterwards arrested by virtue of
an order of arrest made, or an execution issued, in an ac
tion founded upon a debt or liability from which he is so
discharged, the adverse party may oppose his application to
be released from the arrest, by proof, by affidavit, of any
cause for avoiding the discharge, for want of jurisdiction,
or as specified in the last section. If such a cause is estab
lished, the application must be denied.
§ 2188. An insolvent debtor may be exempted from $ iiti4, (^
arrest, or discharged from imprisonment, as prescribed in sol. A^this article. For that purpose, he must apply, by petition,
to the county court of the county in which he reside?1, or is
imprisoned ; or, if he resides or is imprisoned in the city of
New York, to the court of common pleas for that city and
county. A person, who has been admitted to the jail liber
ties, is deemed to be imprisoned, within the meaning of
this article.
§ 8189. The petition must be in writing; it must be
signed by the insolvent, and specify his residence, and also,
if he is in prison, the county in which he is imprisoned, and
the cause of his imprisonment. It must set forth, in sub
stance, that he is unable to pay all his debts in full ; that
he is willing to assign his property for the benefit of all his
creditors, and in all other respects to comply with the pro
visions of this article, for the purpose of being exempted
from arrest and imprisonment, as prescribed therein ; and
it must pray, that upon his so doing, he may thereafter be
exempted from arrest, by reason of a debt, arising upon a
contract previously made ; and also, if he is imprisoned,
that he may be discharged from his imprisonment.
It
must be verified by the affidavit of the insolvent, annexed
thereto, taken on the day of the presentation thereof, to
the effect, that the petition is in all respects true in matter
of fact.
§ 2190. The petitioner must annex to his petition, a
schedule, in all respects similar to that required of an in
solvent, as prescribed in section two thousand one hundred
and sixty-two of this act.
§ 2191. An affidavit, in the following form, subscribed
and taken by the petitioner, before the county judge, or,
in the city of New York, before the judge holding the term
of the court at which the order specified in the next section
is made, must be annexed to the schedule :
"I, ■
, do swear" (or "affirm", as the case may
be,) "that the matters of fact, stated in the schedule hereto
annexed, are, in all respects, just and true ; that I have not,
at any time, or in any manner whatsoever, disposed of or
made over any part of my property, not exempt by express
provision of law from levy and sale by virtue of an execu
tion, for the future benefit of myself or my family, or dis
posed of or made over any part of my property, in order to
defraud any of my creditors ; and that I have" not paid, se
cured to be paid, or in any way compounded with., any of
my creditors, with a view that they or any of them should
abstain from opposing my discharge".
§ 2192. The petition, and the papers annexed thereto,
must be presented to the court, and filed with the clerk.
The court must thereupon make an order, requiring all the
creditors of the petitioner to show cause before it, at a lime
and place therein specified, why the prayer of the petitioner
should not be granted ; and directing that the order be
published and served, in the manner prescribed in section two thousand one hundred aud sixty-five of this act, for
the publication and service of an order, made as therein
prescribed.
§ 2103. The provisions of sections two thousand one
hundred and sixty-six, two thousand one hundred and
sixty-seven, two thousand one hundred and sixty-eight,
two thousand one hundred aud sixty-nine, two thousand
one hundred and seventy, two thousand one hundred and
seventy-two, and two thousand one hundred and seventythree of this act, apply to a special proceeding, taken as
prescribed in this article.
§ 2194. An order, directing the execution of an assign
ment, must be made by the court, where it appears, by the
verdict of the juiy, or, if a jury has not been demanded,
or the jurors have been discharged by reason of their in
ability to agree, where it satisfactorily appears to the court,
as follows :
1. That the petitioner is unable to pay his debts.
2. That the schedule annexed to his petition is true.
3. That he has not been guilty of any fraud or conceal
ment, in violation of the provisions of this article.
4. That he has. in all things, conformed to the matters
required of him by this article.
The provisions of sections two thousand one hundred
and seventy-rive, two thousand one hundred and seventysix, and two thousand one hundred and seventy-seven of
this act apply to the otder prescribed in this section, and to
the assignment made in pursuance thereof, except that the
trustee or trustees must be nominated, as well as appointed,
by the court.
§ 2195. Upon the production by the petitioner, of the
certificates of the trustee or trustees, and the county clerk,
to the effect prescribed in section two thousand one hundred
and seventy-eight of this act, the court must grant to the
petitioner a discharge, declaring that the petitioner is for
ever thereafter exempted from arrest or imprisonment, by
reason of any debt due at the time of making the assign
ment, or contracted before that time, though payable after
wards ; or by reason of any liability incurred by him, by
making or indorsing a promissory note, or by accepting,
drawing, or indorsing a bill of exchange, before the execu
tion of the assignment ; or in consequence of the payment,
by any party to such a note or bill, of the whole or any
part of the money secured thereby, whether the payment
is made before or after the execution of the assignment,
with the exceptions specified in section two thousand two
hundred and eighteen of this act. The discharge shall
have the effect therein declared, as prescribed in this sec
tion.
§ 2196. The provisions of section two thousand one
hundred and eighty-one of this act apply to the discharge, and to the petition and other papers upon which it was
granted.
§ 2197. If, at the time when the discharge is granted,
the petitioner is imprisoned, by virtue of an execution
against his person issued, or of an order of arrest made, in
an action or special proceeding founded upon a debt,
liability, or judgment, as to which lie is exempted from
arrest or imprisonment, as prescribed in the last section
but one. the officer must forthwith release him, on produc
tion of the discharge, or a certified copy of the record
thereof.
§ 2198. A debt, demand, judgment, or decree, against
an insolvent, discharged as prescribed in this article, is not
affected or impaired by the discharge; but it remains valid
and effectual, against all his property, acquired after the
execution of the assignment. The lien, acquired by or
under a judgment or decree, upon any property of the in
solvent, is not affected by the discharge.
§ 2199. A discharge, granted to an insolvent as pre
scribed in this article vis void, in the same cases, so far as they
are applicable, in which a discharge, granted as prescribed
in article first of this title, is therein declared to be void ;
and the validity of such a discharge may be tested in the
same manner.
§ 1164, Con§ 2200. A person, imprisoned by virtue of an execution
sol. Act.
to collect a sum of money, issued in a civil action or special
proceeding, may be discharged from the imprisonment, as
prescribed in this article. A person who has been admitted
to the jail liberties, is deemed to be imprisoned, within the
meaning of this article.
$ 1164, Con§ 2201. Application for such a discharge must be made
sol. Act.
by petition, addressed to the court from which the execu39 Hun, 27. yon issued; or to the county court of the county in which
he is imprisoned ; or, if he is imprisoned in the city of
§ 2208. A person so imprisoned may apply for such a dis
charge, at any time ; unless the sum, or, where he is im
prisoned by virtue of two or more executions, the aggregate
of thesums.forwhiehheis imprisoned, exceeds live hundred
dollars; in which case, he cannot present such a petition,
until he has been imprisoned, by virtue of the execution or
executions, for at least three mouths.
§ 2203. The petition must be in writing; it mustbesitrned
by the petitioner; and it must state the cause of his impris
onment, by setting forth a copy, or the substance, of the
execution, or, if there are two or more executions, of eacli
of them. The petitioner must annex thereto, and present
therewith, a schedule, containing a just and true account
of all his property, and of all charges affecting the same ;
as the property and charges existed at the time when he
was first imprisoned, and also as they exist at the lime
when the petition is prepared; together with a just and true
account of all deeds, securities, books, vouchers, and papers,
relating to the property, and to the charges thereupon.
§ 2204. An affidavit, in the following form, subscribed H4N.Y. 23.
and taken by the petitioner, on the day of the presentation
of the petition, must be annexed to the petition and
schedule :
" I,
, do swear" (or " affirm," as the case may be,)
" that the matters of fact, stated in the petition and sched
ule hereto annexed, arc, in all respects, just and true ; and
that I have not, at any time or in any manner whatsoever,
disposed of or made over any part of my property, not ex
empt by express provision of law from levy and sale by
virtue of an execution, for the future benefit of myself or
my family, or disposed of or made over any part of my
property, with intent to injure or defraud any of my cred
itors."
§ 2205. At least fourteen days before the petition is pre
sented, the petitioner must serve, upon the creditors in each
execution, by virtue of which he is imprisoned, a copy of
the petition, and of the schedule ; together with a written
notice of the time when, and place where, they will be
presented. If, by reason of chances occurring after the
service, it is necessary, before presenting the petition and
schedule, to correct any statement contained in the sched
ule, the correction may be made by a supplemental sched
ule, a copy of which need not be served, unless the court
so directs.
§ 2206. The papers, specified in the last section, may
be served, either upon the creditor or his representative, or
upon the attorney whose name is subscribed to the execu
tion ; and, in either case, in the manner prescribed in this
act for the service of a paper upon an attorney, in an action in the supreme court. Where it is made to appear, by
affidavit, to the satisfaction of the court, that service can
not, with due diligence, be so made within the State, upon
either, the court may make an order, prescribing the mode
of service, or directing the publication of a notice in lieu of
service, in such a manner and for such a length of time, as
it thinks proper ; and thereupon, it may direct an adjourn
ment of the hearing to such a time as it thinks proper.
§ 2207. Where the State is a creditor, the papers must
be served upon the Attorney-General, who must represent
the State in the proceedings.
§ 2208. Upon the presentation of the petition, sched
ule, and affidavit with due proof of service or publication,
as prescribed in the last three sections, the court must make
an order, directing the petitioner to be brought before it, on
a day designated therein ; and on that day, or on such other
days as it appoints, the court must, in a summary way, hear
the allegations and proofs of the parties. If the court is
satisfied that the petition and schedule are correct, and that
the petitioner's proceedings are just and fair, it must make
an order, directing the petitioner to execute, to one or
more trustees, designated in the order, an assignment of
all his property, not expressly exempt by law from levy
and sale by virtue of an execution ; or of so much thereof
as is sufficient to satisfy the execution or executions, by
virtue of which he is imprisoned.
§ 2209. Upon sufficient cause being shown by a cred
itor, the court may, from time to time, adjourn the hear
ing ; but not to a day later than three months after the pre
sentation of the petition.
§ 2210. An objection to a matter of form shall not be
received upon an adjourned day ; and, unless the opposing
creditor satisfies the court that the proceedings on the part
of the petitioner are not just and fair, the court must direct
an assignment, as prescribed in the last section but one, and
must grant a discharge, as prescribed in the following sec
tions of this article.
§2211. The assignment must be acknowledged or
pioved and certified in like manner as a deed to be recorded
in the county, and must be recorded in the clerk's office of
the county where the petitioner is imprisoned. Where it
appears, from the schedule or otherwise, that real property
will pass thereby, the assignment must also be recorded as
a deed, in the proper office for recording deeds, of each
county where the real property is situated. The assign
ment vests in the trustee or trustees, for the benefit of the
judgment creditors in the executions, by virtue of which
the petitioner is imprisoned, all the estate, right, title, and
interest of the petitioner in and to the property, so directed
to be assigned.
§ 2212. Upon the production, by the petitioner, of satis
factory evidence that the petitioner has actually delivered
to the trustee or trustees all the property so directed to be
assigned, which is capable of delivery ; or upon the peti
tioner's giving security, approved by the court, for the
future delivery thereof ; the court must make an order,
discharging the petitioner from imprisonment, by virtue of
each execution, specified in his petition. The sheriff, upon
being served with a certified copy of the order, must dis
charge the petitioner as directed therein, without any deten
tion on account of fees.
§ 2213. Notwithstanding such a discharge, the judg
ment creditor in the execution has the same remedies,
against the property of the petitioner, for any sum due upon
his judgment, which he had before the execution was
issued ; but the petitioner shall not, except as is otherwise
specially prescribed in the next section, be again imprisoned
by virtue of an execution upon the same judgment, or
arrested in an action thereupon.
§ 2214. If the petitioner is convicted of perjury, com
mitted in any of the proceedings upon his petition, any
judgment creditor, by virtue of whose execution he was
imprisoned, may issue a new execution against his person.
§ 2215. The trustee must collect the demands, and sell
the other property assigned to him. He must apply the
proceeds thereof, after deducting his commissions and ex
penses allowed by law, as follows :
1. To the payment of the jail fees, upon the imprison
ment and discharge of the petitioner.
2. If any surplus remains, to the payment of the credi
tors, by virtue of whose executions the petitioner was
imprisoned, when he presented his petition ; or, if there is
not enough to pay them in full, to the payment, to each, of
a proportionate part of the sum due upon his execution.
3. If any surplus remains, he must pay it over to the
petitioner, or his executor or administrator.
Personal service upon a creditor, or his attorney, of writ
ten notice of the time and place of making a distribution,
as prescribed in subdivision second of this section, has the
same effect as publishing a notice thereof, in a case pre
scribed by law.
§ 2216. Where a person has been imprisoned, by virtue
of an execution, for the space of three months after he was
entitled, by the provisions of this article, to apply for a
discharge; and has neither made such an application, nor
applied for his discharge under the provisions of article
first of this title ; the judgment creditor, by virtue of
whose execution he is imprisoned, may serve upon the
prisoner a written notice, requiring him to apply for his
discharge, according to the provisions of this article.
§ 2217. If the prisoner does not, within thirty days
after personal service of such a notice, either present a petition to the proper court, as prescribed in article first of
this title, or serve, upon the creditor giving the notice, a
copy of a petition and schedule, with a notice of his inten
tion lo apply for his discharge, as prescribed in this article;
or if, after such a presentation or service, he does not dili
gently proceed thereupon to a decision, he shall be forever
barred from obtaining his discharge under the provisions of
this article, or of article first of this title.
§ 3218. Neither of the following named persons shall
be discharged from imprisonment, under the provisions of
this article •.
1. A person owing a debt or duty to the United States.
2. A person owing a debt or duty to the State, for taxes
or for money received or collected by any person, as a pub
lic officer or in a fiduciary capacity, or a cause of action
specified in section one thousand nine hundred and sixtynine of this act or a judgment recovered upon such a cause
of action.
§ 2219. Where a person is imprisoned in a State prison.
sol. Act
for a term less than for life ; or in a penitentiary or county
jail, for a criminal offense, for a longer term than one year ;
one or more trustees, to take charge of his property, may
be appointed, as prescribed in this article, by the county
court of the county, or a superior city court of the city,
where he resided at the time of his imprisonment ; or, if he
was not ihen a resident of the State, where he is im
prisoned.
§ 2220. A petition for such an appointment may be
presented by either of the following persons :
1. A creditor of the prisoner.
2. The prisoner's husband, wife, or child.
8. One or more of his next of kin, or, where he owns
real property, of his heirs presumptive.
4. A relative whom he is bound to support.
5. Any relative or other person, in behalf of his infant
child or children.
§ 2221. A creditor of the prisoner, who has a judgment, mortgage, or other security, specified in section two
thousand one hundred and fifty-eight of this act, cannot
apply for such an appointment with respect to the del>t so
secured, unless he appends to or Includes in his ]>etition. the
declaration, required by that sect ion from a consenting cred
itor ; which declaration has the same effect as the declara
tion of a consenting creditor, as therein specified.
§ 2222. The petition must lie in writing, unci verified
by the affidavit of the petitioner, to the effect, that the mat
ters of fact therein stated are true, to the best of the peti
tioner's knowledge and belief. It must set forth the facts,
showing that the applicant is entitled to make the applica
tion, and that the application is made to the proper court ;
the name and residence of each person, who is entitled to
make such an application, as prescribed in the last section
but one, except the fifth subdivision thereof ; and a brief
description of the property, real and personal, of the pris
oner, and the value thereof. If the applicant is a creditor,
and not a resident of the State, he must annex to his peti
tion, the papers specified in section two thousand one hun
dred and sixty-one of this act. If any of the facts, herein
required to be set forth, cannot be ascertained by the peti
tioner, after the exercise of due diligence, that fact must be
stated ; and the court may, in its discretion, issue a sub
poena, requiring any person to attend and testify, respect
ing any matter, which, in its opinion, ought to be more
fully and certainly set forth.
§ 2223. The petition must be accompanied with a copy
of the sentence of conviction of the prisoner, duly certified
by the clerk of the court by which he was sentenced, under
the seal thereof ; together with an affidavit of the appli
cant, stating that the person so convicted is actually im
prisoned thereunder.
§ 2224. Upon the presentation of the papers, the court
may, in its discretion, make an order, either appointing one
or more fit persons trustees of the property of the prisoner ;
or requiring all creditors of the prisoner, and all persons in
terested in his estate, to show cause, at a time and pla; *
specified therein, why such an appointment should not be
made. In the latter case, the order must direct the manner
of service thereof, by publication or otherwise.
§ 2225. Upon the return of an order to show cause,
made as prescribed in the last section, proof of the service
thereof, as required thereby, must first be made ; where
upon the court must hear the allegations and proofs of the
creditors, and other persons interested in the estate, who ap
pear. Where the prisoner is indebted to any person, the
court must appoint one or more trustees, unless the per
sons interested in the prisoner's property pay the debt, or
give such security, as the court prescribes, for the payment
thereof, either absolutely, or contingently upon a recovery
in an action ; in which case, or where the prisoner is not indebted, the court may grant or deny the prayer of the
petition, as justice requires.
§ 2226. The entry of the order, appointing one or more
trustees, and the filing of the papers upon which it was
granted, vest in the trustee or trustees all the right, title and
interest of the prisoner, in and to any property, real or per
sonal. Where the prisoner owns real property, an exempli
fied copy of the order must be recorded, in the proper office
for recording deeds, in each county where the real property
is situated.
§ 2227. Upon the application of any person, entitled to
apply for an order, appointing trustees of the prisoner's
property, and upon such a notice as the court prescribes, to
the petitioner, and to such other persons interested, as the
court thinks proper to designate, the court, by which the
order was granted, may, in its discretion, remove any trus
tee, and appoint another in his place ; or may appoint one
or more additional trustee?. The new trustee or trustees,
so appoiuted, have the same power and authority, are vested
with the same right, title, and interest, and are subject to
the same duties and liabilities, as if he or they had been ap
pointed by the original order.
§ 2228. After deducting their commissions and ex
penses, allowed by law, and paying the prisoner's debts,
the trustees may, from time to time, under the direction of
the court by which they weie appointed, apply the surplus
of any money in their hands, to the support of the prisoner's
wife and children, and of such other relatives as he is bound
to support, and to the education of his children.
§ 2229. When the prisoner dies, or is lawfully dis
charged from imprisonment, the trustee or trustees must
deliver over to him, or to his legal representatives, all his
property, remaining in their hands, after deducting there
from their lawful expenses and commissions.
§ 2230. This arlicle applies to a prisoner who has been
sentenced before this chapter takes effect, and to his prop
erty ; except where one or more trustees of his property
have been theretofore appointed, by proceedings taken in
pursuance of a statute then in force.
§2331
sored on laadjord «f f *SE_ r*fi^-aia» ; tarn ft»bawdy-bonae.
w~~..<• :' •- i™ <-■»!>'\ 2843. Proof
of serrieeetcof pre2SX I^-i«=i
cept.
fc ~ "'"— " -^ "***■
2344. Answer.
S5-. T.« -.-" »v «*■ ...a*
2245. Issues awn forabie eacry
'■-H-l
or detainer.
SSL ■—-?- ■. »! v.»o» ~i*a»?246. In S. T. district cotn.
i .■ •- ...:•.
-f >«*caose may be trans•• ". ' ->*:—..£.
ferred to another costs
it* > -. ■—_
fortriaL
ISC £:—: -'tw*. juobC «
2247. Trial.
•—- -" '*—•
224-*. Adjournment,
ttfc. • »_-—'-". " ij'.'* s--****! ta,
221!). Final order opon tr-.»L
t . >- l
2250. Amount of eosie ; bow
a.'.;> i ••-.-->' r»«.-f
collected.
r~ - i - fc -ji. fc»
281. Warrant to disposes** de'.%•• -■-:■•
fencant.
**t i.c ..-- - '.' :•■ - '-je:
2252. Execation of wirra- ".
!«.: ■.' - - «- '-*2253. When warrant etaee*
*» Hw ;-rj~<i»c« i-w
lease : exce^:.oc
"-^ •-"-'- -'- "-* ***J~
2254. Warrant : when aiid bow
stayed§2831. [Amdlf&5.] In du^ir '.'. ti* f-.."-/wl^y »a^», »* r
a tenant or lessee at wui, or at *-Z-.z ■—>-., or i a y*n ■/ a *««* ^J
year, or for one or more year', <>J r-it. ;.->:*rt>' .:-<..--..•—% j«i>».r-*
a specific or undivided port;-* of a Lv.-* orou-e'O'ire.^s.jr.
and his assigns, undertenant- or l-z». rt ;..'»»«. u: ret iu;
be removed therefrom, as pr«-*eri ' *»i ~ •.;.-> ui^r ;
1. Where he holds over and '-< :.*.:. ,e- „-. y ***•*.■r.\ of
the demised premises, or any port.v:. '•.<•«?. f *;•** i.v: ex
piration of his term, without th- p-rrx.-—,'.:. of t.v. bm;»'/r>J.
2. Where he holds over, »:'i'/.; ti-e liK<r prru.i>>~.o0,
after a default in the payment of r»-rjt. \,-*r*<j>iA to the
agreement under which the dernier i pr:;;<ly=» are b<:M, and
a demand of the rent has been urn■.*, or at iei*t tLree day*'
notice in writing, requiring, in the aj'.^rr.itive, tb<; payment
of the rent, or the possession of the prei:.iv>. has been
served, in behalf of the person er,t;'tlei to then-nt, upon the
person owing it, as prescribed in this title for the service of
a precept.
3. Where in any city in this rtate he holds over and con
tinues in possession of the demised premises, or any por
tion thereof, after default in the payment, for tixty days
after the same shall be payable, of any taxes or assessments
levied on such demised premises which he has agreed in
writing to pay pursuant to the agreement under which the
demised premises are held, and a demand for the payment
of such taxes or assessments has been made, or at least
three days' notice in writing, requiring, in the alternative,
the payment thereof and of any interest and penalty
thereon, or the possession of the premises, has been served,
in belialf of the landlord, upon the lessee, as prescribed in
this title for the service of a precept. An acceptance of
any rent by the lessor or his legnl representatives shall not
be construed as a waiver of the agreement of the lessee to
pay taxes or assessments, so as to preclude the lessor from
the benefits of this chapter.
4. Where he, being in possession under a lease for a term
of three years or less, has, during the term, taken the bene
fit of an insolvent net, or has been adjudicated a bankrupt,
under a bankrupt law of the United States.
5. Where the demised premises, or any part thereof, are
used or occupied as a bawdy-house, or house of assignation
for lewd persons, or for any illegal trade or manufacture,
or other illegal business.
§ 2232. In either of the following cases, a person, who
holds over and continues in possession of real property,
after notice to quit the same has been given, as prescribed
in section two thousand two hundred and thirty-six of this
act, and his assigns, tenants, or legal representative, may
tye removed therefrom, as prescribed in this title :
1. Where the property has been sold by virtue of an exe
cution against him, or a person under whom he claims, and
a title under the sale has been perfected.
2. Where the property has been duly sold, upon the foreclosure, by proceedings taken as prescribed in title ninth
of this chapter, of a mortgage executed by him, or a persou
under whom he claims, and the title under the foreclosure
has been duly perfected.
8. Where he occupies or holds the property, under an
agreement with the owner to occupy and cultivate it upon
shares, or for a share of the crops, and the lime, fixed in
the agreement for his occupancy has expired.
4. Where he, or the person to whom he has succeeded,
has intruded into, or squatted upon, a parcel of land, in a
city or incorporated village, without the permission of the
person entitled to the possession thereof, and the occu
pancy, thus commenced, has continued without permission
from the latter ; or after a permission given by him has
been revoked, and notice of the revocation given to the
person or persons to be removed.
§ 2233. An entry shall not be made into real property,
hut in a case where entry is given by law ; and, in such a
case> on]y jn a peaceable manner, not with strong hand,
nor with multitude of people.
A person who makes a
forcible entry forbidden by this section, or who, haviDg
peaceably entered upon real property, holds the possession
thereof by force, and his assigns, undertenants, and legal
representatives, may be removed therefrom, as prescribed
in this title.
§2234. [Am'd 1881,1884.] Application for removal
of a person from real property, as prescribed in this
*'''''■ ma7 ',e ma('e t° tne cou"ty .i,1(lgc or special county
judge ot the county, or the justice of the peace of
the city or town, or the mayor or recorder of the city,
wherein the real property, or a portion thereof, is situ
ated. Application may also be made, if the property,
or a portion thereof be situated in the city of New York,
to the district court of the district within which the property, or a portion thereof, is situated ; or if the
justice of such court be for any reason disqualified,
to the district court of sin adjoining district ; if in the city
of Brooklyn, to a police justice of that city ; if in the city
of Albany, or the city of Troy, to a justice of the justice's
court of that city ; if in the city of Yonkers, to the city
judge of that city ; if in the cities of Rochester or Buffalo,
to a judge of the municipal court of that city. Where the
property is situated in an incorporated village, the bounda
ries of which embrace portions of two or more towns, ap
plication may be made to a justice of the peace of either
town, who keeps an office in the village.
£2235. The application may be made by the landlord bn.y. state
or lessor of the demised premises ; the purchaser upon the
p' 809,
execution or foreclosure sale ; the person forcibly put out
or kept out ; the person with whom, as owner, the agree
ment was made, or the owner of the property occupied
under an agreement, to cultivate the property upon shares,
or for a share of the crops ; or the person lawfully entitled
to the possession of the property intruded into or squatted
upon, as the case requires ; or by the legai representative,
agent, or assignee of the landlord, purchaser, or other per
son, so entitled to apply. The applicant must present to
the judge or justice, a written petition verified in like man
ner as a verified complaint in an action brought in the su
preme court ; describing the premises of which the posses
sion is claimed, and the interest therein of the petitioner, or
the person whom he represents ; stating the facts, which,
according to the provisions of this title, authorize the appli
cation by the petitioner, and the removal of the person in
possession ; naming, or otherwise intelligibly designating,
the person or persons against whom the special proceeding
is instituted, and, if there are two or more such persons,
and some are undertenants or assigns, specifying who are
principals or tenants, and who are undertenants or assigns ;
and praying for a final order to remove him or them accord
ingly.
§ 2236. Where the person to be removed is a tenant at
will, or at sufferance, the petition must state the facts, show
ing that the tenancy has been terminated, by giving notice,
as required by law. Where the application is made in a
case specified in section two thousand two hundred and
thirty-two of this act, the petition must state that a notice,
in behalf of the applicant, requiring all persons occupying
the property to quit the same, by a day therein specified,
has been either served personally upon the person or per
sons to be removed, or affixed conspicuously upon the
property, at least ten days before the day specified therein.
§ 2237. An owner or tenant of real property, in the im
mediate neighborhood of other demised real property,
which is used or occupied as a bawdy-house, or house of
assignation for lewd persons, may serve personally upon the owner or landlord of the premises, so used or occupied, or
upon Lis agent, a written notice, requiring the owner or
landlord to make an application for the removal of the per
son so using or occupying the same. If the owner or land
lord, or his agent, does not make such an application
within rive days thereafter ; or, having made it, does not
in good faith diligently prosecute it ; the person giving the
notice may make such an application, stating in his peti
tion, the facts so entitling him to make it. Such an appli
cation has the same effect, except as otherwise expressly
prescribed in this title, as if the applicant was the landlord
or lessor of the premises.
§ 2238. The judge or justice, to whom a petition ispreBente(ji as prescribed in either of the foregoing sections of
this title, must thereupon issue a precept, directed to the
person or persons designated in the petition as being in pos
session of the property, and requiring him or them forth
with to remove from the property, describing it, or to show
cause, before him, at a time and place specified in the pre
cept, why possession of the property should not be deliv
ered to the petitioner, or, in the case specified in the last
section, to the owner or landlord. The precept must be
returnable, not less than three nor more than five days after
it is issued ; except that, where the proceeding is token,
upon the ground that a tenant continues in possession of
demised premises, after the expiration of his term without
the permission of his landlord, and the application is mailo
on the day of the expiration of the lease, or on the next
day thereafter, the precept may, in the discretion of the
judge or justice, be made returnable on the day on which
it is issued, at any time after twelve o'clock, noon, and be
fore six o'clock in the afternoon.
§ 2239. In the city of New York, where the application
*s mac'e t0 a district court, the petition must be filed with,
and the precept must be issued by, the clerk of the court ;
and the precept must be made returnable before the court,
at the place designated, pursuant to law, for holding the
court ; and all subsequent proceedings in the cause, must
be had at that place, except as otherwise prescribed in
section two thousand two hundred and forty-six of this
act. If, upon the return of the precept or upon an ad
journed day the justice is unable by reason of absence
from the court room or sickness, to hear the cause, or it is
shown by affidavit that he is for any reason disqualified to
sit in the cause, or is a necessary and material witness for
either party, a justice of any other district court of the city
may act in his place at the same court room.
§ 2240. The precept must be served as follows :
1. By delivering, to the person to whom it is directed, or,
if it is directed to a corporation, to an officer of the cor
poration, upon whom a summons, issued out of the supreme
court, in an action against the corporation, might be served, a copy of the precept, and at the same time showing him
the original.
2. If the person, to whom the precept is directed, resides
in the city or town in which the property is situated, hut is
absent from his dwelling-house, service may be made by
delivering a copy thereof, at his dwelling-house, to a person
of suitable age and discretion, who resides there ; or, if no
such person can. with reasonable diligence, be found there,
upon whom to make service, then by delivering a copy of
the precept, at the property sought to be recovered, either
to some person of suitable age and discretion residing
there, or if no such person can be found there, to any
person of suitable age and discretion employed there..
3. "Where service cannot, with reasonable diligence, be
made, as prescribed in either of the foregoing subdivisions
of this section, by affixing a copy of the precept upon a
conspicuous part of the property.
If the precept is returnable on the day on which it is
issued, it must be served at least two hours before the hour
at which it is returnable ; in every other case, it must be
served at least two days before the day on which it is
returnable.
§ 2241. A person, to whom a copy of a precept, directed i3Civ. Pro
to another, is delivered, as prescribed in this title, must •
without any avoidable delay, deliver it to the person to
whom it is directed, if he can be found within the same town
or city ; or, if he cannot be so found, to his agent therein;
and if neither can be so found, after the exercise of reason
able diligence, before the time when the precept is return
able, to the judge or justice who issued the same, at the
time of the return thereof, with a written statement indorsed
thereupon, that he has been unable, after the exercise of
reasonable diligence, to find the person to whom the precept
is directed, or his agent, within the town or city. A person,
who willfully violates any provision of this section, is guilty
of a misdemeanor ; and, if he is a tenant upon the property,
forfeits to his landlord the value of three years' rent of the
premises occupied by him. A copy of this section must be
indorsed upon each copy of a precept, served otherwise
than personally upon the person to whom it is directed.
§ 2242. Where the case is within section two thousand
two hundred and thirty-seven of this act, the precept must
be directed to and served upon the owner or landlord, or his
agent, and also upon the tenant or occupant of the property.
Either or both of them may, upon the return day, appear
and show cause why the tenant or occupant should not he
removed from the property.
§ 2243. At the time when the precept is returnable, the
petitioner must, unless the adverse party appears, make due
proof of the service thereof, showing the time, and the place
and manner of service ; and, unless service was made per
sonally upon the adverse party, or by affixing a copy of the precept, the name of the person to whom a copy of the pre
cept was delivered, if his name can be ascertained with rea
sonable diligence. Where service is made by a sheriff,
constable or marshal, it may be proved by his certificate,
stating the facts.
§ 2244. \Am'd 1882.] At the time when the precept is
returnable, without waiting as prescribed in an action be
fore a justice of the peace, or in a district court of the city
of New York, the person to whom it is directed, or his
landlord or any person in possession or claiming possession
of the premises, or a part thereof, may file, with the judge
or justice who issued the precept, or with the clerk of the
court, a written answer, verified in like manner as a veri
fied answer in an action in the supreme court, denying gen
erally, the allegations, or specifically any material allega
tion of the petition.
§ 2245. Where the application is founded upon an alle
gation of forcible entry or forcible holding out, the peti
tioner must allege and prove that he was peaceably in actual
possession of the property, at the time of a forcible entry,
or in constructive possession, at the time of a forcible hold
ing out ; and the adverse party must either deny the forci
ble entry, or the forcible holding out, or allege, in his de
fence, that he, or his ancestor, or those whose interest he
claims, had been in quiet possession of the property, for
three years together next before the alleged forcible entry
or detainer-, and that his interest is not ended or deter
mined, at the time of the trial.
§ 2246. In a district court of the city of New York, at
fne time of joining issue, the justice sitting in the cause
may, in his discretion, upon motion of either party, or, if
no justice is present, the clerk may, by consent of both
parties, make an order transferring the cause for trial, to a
district court of an adjoining district, which thereupon
has the same jurisdiction and power, at its own court house,
as if the property was situated within its district.
§ 2247. [Am'd 1881, 1882.] The issues joined by the
petition and answer must be tried by the judge or justice,
unless either party to such proceedings shall at the time
designated in such precept for showing cause, demand a
jury, and at the time of such demand pay to such judge or
justice the necessary costs and expenses of obtaining such
jury. If a jury be demanded and such costs and expenses
be paid the judge or justice with whom such petition shall
be filed shall nominate twelve reputable persons qualified
to serve as jurors in courts of record, and shall issue his
precept directed to the sheriff or one of the constables of
the county, or any constable or marshal of the city or town,
commanding him to summon the persons so nominated to
appear before sifch judge or justice at such time or place
as he shall therein appoint, not more than three days
from the date thereof, for the purpose of trying the said matters in difference. Six of the persons so summoned
shall be drawn in like manner as jurors in justices'
courts and shall be sworn by such judge or justice well and
truly to hear, try and determine the matters in difference be
tween the parties. After hearing the allegations and proofs
of the parties, the said jury shall be kept together until they
agree on their verdict, by the sheriff or one of his deputies,
or a constable, or by some proper person appointed by the
judge or justice for that purpose, who shall be sworn to
keep such jury as is usual in like cases of courts of record.
If such jury cannot agree after being kept together for such
time as suali judge or justice shall deem reasonable, he may
discharge them and nominate a new jury and issue a new
precept in manner aforesaid.
§ 2248. At the time when issue is joined, the judge or §1382-130E,
justice may, in his discretion, at the request of either party, jiP'p"'"™^'
and upon proof to his satisfaction, by affidavit or orally, 35^.
that an adjournment is necessary, to enable the applicant
to procure his necessary witnesses, or by consent of all the
parties who appear, adjourn the trial of the issue, but not
more than ten days ; except by consent of all parties.
§ 2249. If sufficient cause is not shown upon the re
turn of the precept ; or if the verdict of the jury, or the
decision of the judge or justice, upon a trial without
a jury, is in favor of the petitioner ; the judge or
justice must make a final order, awarding to the peti
tioner the delivery of the possession of the property • ex
cept that, where the case is within section two thousand
two hundred and thirty-seven of this act, the final order
must direct the removal of the occupant. In either case,
the final order must award to the petitioner the costs of the
special proceeding. If the verdict or decision is in favor
of the person answering, the judge or justice must make a
final order accordingly, and awarding to him the costs of
the special proceeding.
§ 2250. [Am'd 1882.] Costs, when allowed, and the fees 5 civ. Pro.
of officers, except where a fee is specially given in chapter 141twenty-one of this act must be at the rate allowed by law
in an action in a justice's court, and are limited in like
manner; unless the application is founded upon an allega
tion of forcible entry or forcible holding out ; in which
case, the judge or justice may award to the successful
party a fixed sum as costs, not exceeding fifty dollars in
addition to his disbursements. If the final order is made
by a county judge, or a special county judge, or by a mayor
or recorder, an execution to collect the costs may be issued
thereupon as if it was a judgment of a justice of the peace
of the same city or county ; and for that purpose the
officer takes the place of a justice of the peace. In every
other case an execution may be issued to collect the costs
awarded thereby as if the final order was a judgment, rendered in the court, of which the judge or justice is the
presiding officer.
§ 2251. [Am'd 1882.1 Where the final order is in favor
of the petitioner, the judge or justice must thereupon issue a
warrant, under his hand, directed to the sheriff of the
county or to any constable or marshal of the city in which
the property or a portion thereof is situated, or if it is not
situated in a city, to any constable of any town in the
county, describing the property and commanding the
officer to remove all persons therefrom ; and also, except
where the case is within section two thousand two hundred
and thirty seven of Ibis act, to put the petitioner into the
full possession thereof.
§ 2252. The officer, to whom the warrant is directed
and delivered, must execute it, according to the command
thereof, between the hours of sunrise and sunset.
§ 2253. The issuing of awarrant, for the removal of a ten
ant from demised premises, cancels the agreement for the use
of the premises, if any, under which the person removed held
them ; and annuls accordingly the relation of landlord and
tenant, except that it does not prevent a landlord from re
covering, by action, any sum of money, which was, at the
time when the precept was issued, payable by the terms of
the agreement, as rent for the premises ; or the reasonable
value of the use and occupation thereof, to the time when
the warrant was issued, for any period of time, with respect
to which the agreement does not make any special pro
vision for payment of rent.
SDem. 242.
§2254. [Am'd 1885.] The party, against whom a final
order is made, requiring the delivery of possession to the
petitioner, may, at any time before a warrant i» issued, stay
the issuing thereof ; and also stay an execution to collect
the costs, as follows :
1. Where the final order establishes that a lessee or tenant
holds over, after a default in the payment of rent, or of
taxes or assessments, he may effect a stay, by payment of
the rent due, or of such taxes or assessments, and interest
and penalty, if any thereon due, and the costs of the special
proceeding ; or by delivering to the judge or justice, or the
clerk of the court, his undertaking to the petitioner, in such
sum and with such sureties as the judge or justice approves,
to the effect that he will pay the rent, or such taxes or as
sessments, and interest and penalty and costs, within ten
days, at the expiration of which time a warrant may issue,
unless he produces to the judge or justice satisfactory evi
dence of the payment.
2. Where the final order establishes that a lessee or tenant
has taken the benefit of an insolvent act, or has been adju
dicated a bankrupt, he may effect a stay, by paying the
costs of the special proceeding, and by delivering to the
judge or justice, or the clerk of the court, his undertaking to the petitioner, in such a sum and with such sureties as
the judge or justice approves, to the effect, that ho will i»ay
the rent of the premises, as it has become, or thereafter be
comes due.
3. Where the final order establishes that the person
against whom it is made, continues in possession of real
property, which has been sold by virtue of an execution
against his property, he may effect a stay, by paying the
costs of the special proceeding, and delivering to the judge
or justice, or the clerk of the court, an affidavit, that lie
claims the possession of the property, by virtue of a right
or title, acquired after the sale, or as guardian or trustee
for another ; together with his undertaking to the peti
tioner, in such a sum and with such sureties as the judge
or justice approves, to the effect, that he will pay any costs
and damages, which may be recovered against him, in an
action of ejectment to recover the property, brought against
him by the petitioner within six months thereafter ; and
that he will not commit any waste upon or injury to the
property, during his occupation thereof.
§ 2255. Where an undertaking is given, in a case speci
fied in subdivision first of the last section, the judge or
justice must deliver it to the person against whom the final
order was made, upon his producing the evidence of pay
ment, mentioned in that subdivision. If he does not pro
duce such evidence within ten days, the judge or justice
must deliver it to the petitioner. In every other case speci
fied in the last section, the judge or justice must deliver the
undertaking to the petitioner, immediately after his ap
proval thereof.
§ 2256. Where the special proceeding is founded upon 29 N. T.
an allegation that a lessee holds over, after a default in the st"te ^Spayment of rent, and the unexpired term of the lease, under
which the premises are held, exceeds five years, at the time
when the warrant is issued ; the lessee, his executor, ad
ministrator, or a signee, may, at any time within one year
after the execution of the warrant, pay or tender to the
petitioner, his heir, executor, administrator, or assignee, or
if, within five days before the expiration of the year, he
cannot, with reasonable diligence, be found within the city
or town, wherein the property, or a portion thereof, is situ
ated, then to the judge or justice who issued the warrant,
or his successor in office, all rent in arrear at the time of the
payment or tender, with interest thereupon, and the costs
and charges incurred by the petitioner. Thereupon the
person, making the payment or tender, shall be entitled to
the possession of the demised premises, under the lease,
and may hold and enjoy the same, according to the terms
of the original demise, except as otherwise prescribed in the
next section but one.
§ 2257. In a case specified in the last section, a judg
ment creditor of the lessee, whose judgment was docketed in the county, before the precept was issued, or a mortgagee
of the lease, whose mortgage was duly recorded, in the
county, before the precept was issued, may, at any time
before the expiration of one year after the execution of the
warrant, unless a redemption has been made as prescribed
in the last section, file with the judge or justice who issued
the warrant, or with his successor in office, a notice, speci
fying his interest and the sum due to him ; describing the
premises ; and stilting that it is his intention to redeem, as
prescribed in this section. If a redemption is not made by
the lessee, his executor, administrator, or assignee, within a
year after the execution of the warrant, the person so filing
a notice, or, if two or more persons have filed such notices,
the one who holds the first lien, may, at any lime before
two o'clock of the day, not a Sunday or a public holiday,
next succeeding the last day of the year, redeem for his
own benefit, in like manner as the lessee, his executor, ad
ministrator, or assignee might have so redeemed. Where
two or more judgment creditors or mortgagees have filed
such notices, the holder of the second lien may so redeem
at any time before two o'clock of the day, not a Sunday or
a public holiday, next succeeding that in which the holder
of the first lien might have redeemed ; and the holder of
the third and each subsequent lien, may redeem, in like
manner, at any time before two o'clock of the day, not a
Sunday or a public holiday, next succeeding that in which
his predecessor might have redeemed. But a second or
subsequent redemption is not valid, unless the person re
deeming pays or tenders to each of his predecessors ■who
has redeemed, the sum paid by him to redeem, and also the
sum due upon his judgment or mortgage ; or deposits those
sums with the judge or justice, for the benefit of his pre
decessor or predecessors.
18 Abb. N.
§ 2258. Where a redemption is made, as prescribed in
C. 242.
either of the last two sections, the rights of the person re
deeming are subject to a lease, if any, executed by the
petitioner, since the warrant was issued, so far that the new
lessee, his assigns, undertenants, or other representative s,
may, upon complying with the terms of the lease, hold the
premises so leased until twelve o'clock, noon, of the first
day of May, next succeeding the redemption. And, in all
other respects, the person so redeeming, his assigns and
representatives, succeed to all the rights and liabilities of
the petitioner, under such a lease.
§ 2259. The person redeeming, as prescribed in the last
three sections, or the owner of the property so redeemed,
may present to the judge or justice who issued the warrant,
or to his successor in oltice, a petition, duly verified, setting
forth the facts of the redemption, and praying for an order,
establishing 1he rights and liabilities of the parties upon
the redemption. Whereupon the judge or justice must
make an order, requiring the other party to the redemption to show cause before him, at a imr nai ..:
specified, why the prayer of the peiir.. r. .u .
granted. The order to show cause miuc .*■ ;-* >■ /-.li
able, not less than two nor more than 'err u.
_-.-«.*
granted; and it must be served at eaof • -•<,
■ *■'.** l
is returnable.
Upon the return '\\i-r<-. ' ;.>-- *
justice must hear the allegations ami ,' • . • ■- *-*-v»
and must make such a final onler aa .-■ •.-»-■
• ■»
' -*■costs and expenses must he pain •>■■ in- ** . ■*^*~
final order, or a certified copv lierri,: . i «► ■ - "■>* t
like manner as a dee 1. A person. ...-.-•
-• »^»-who redeems as prescribed in !.e ..-• .. ■ »<■■*
ceeds to all the duties and Iiai.ii::.-< r ..-after the redemption, as if he w.-m ,ianj<: »» .— <■«••»*.'■>
* § 2260. An appeal may he 'j,^»-n '.-■ •- « '
* ■ - ..
made as prescribed in this title, 'n .j~. «..i-»- the same time, and in the same z.ai.u-r «• » -<•
--Vis taken from a judgment tfntw-l '• "--*• -'• - '
the judge or justice is the pre> ■::••/ .*?:---' ■-. : >
.--. -*
feet ; except as otherwise prex;rirf-r: u ,j- ^.
-<.-.,
§ 2281. The issuing or e^.'-.- -•; .<-_»-»<.
— -x^.'
be stayed by such an appeal r .- - ./- - • < .'
. ■***
taking thereupon, otherw:.-*; -..an t* .■ * /•■
-a /
section. An appeal cannot, vtr. ',u --. /. >-'.."
from a final determinatn.n •,» •-/- l—.j**~ i ■
supreme court or of a <<t.p»-r <■-»• • ■/ *.-.-. " --••- *-« . ,^
appeal, ualess the latr^r ^- ■..- -- *.. -.--:•' .i—,./ .. .
general term where rhe f....u '.*--' s .j~-. ;• .-*. i, -/ .
general term thereafter. a../,»« .-• /. *■. s.ju~~.
§ 2262. Where an ar.v-a. -• *>.^/^. ?.".•.'. t t- *. -^■^v i - > *•<>.
awarding delivery of p<^r«— .*.'. ,. _/■: ^
-j-/ *-._, . <*■'
establishes that a lessee or >r-».. ..'./.* -. /~f <; .^t.v<..i
in the payment of rent, *;.* .-<-..../ »»-/j <-z.- . • /.•. vwarrant may, except in *.h- ». -- *i : <.-. . •_. •,» .' ■ . y.,y>
be stayed by the order of • u- '/,•.:•■ ; j^t - j .. VJL ,^,;. ,
can be made only upon "ij~. a;.v ..*..« jr. .v.* >i>; »,-,...--.•. y
required to perfect the apr>-*- *• -; V. -*..> •;_* <->.- .'._-,-. -jf
the order appealed fr'.m *.-.<! *.^ it vL-ie"^/ ..-./ v, f;'e
petitioner, in a sum. an l v -»j > .».-• .e-; »;.-.?•'/■><<: vy 'he
county jud<re, to the effKr'. li.-j. :'. .y,t t.^4 '»- ;,.-,; *'ti.;A
uetermination is reci- red ax'■•-'-*t 'ae *;/{*. .»tt, he »i'l
pay all rent accruinir or to ae- r^e ^[yyn the pre-wi*.;*, or, if
there is no lease ther'-</f, the vai-.e of the uxe a; <i otx-urMtiou
of the premises, suli- orient to the ia^titution of the special
proceedinEr
§ 2263. If the final order is reversed npon the appeal
the appellale court may award restitution to the party
injured, with costs; and it may make an order, or issue
any other mandate, necessary to carry its determination
into effect. The person dispossessed may also maintain an
action, to recover the damages which he has sustained la
the dispossession.
§ 2264. This title does not impair the rights of a land
lord, lessor, or tenant, in a case not therein provided for.
Where a special statutory provision confers a right to take
proceedings, in the manner heretofore prescribed by law,
for the summary removal of a person in possession of real
property, the proceedings thereunder must be taken as
prescribed in this title. A final order, made in a special
proceeding, taken as prescribed in this litle. is not a bar
to an action of ejectment, to recover the property affected
thereby.
25 Hun, aw,
j§ 2265. Where a petition is presented, as prescribed in
r? mm'1'' N' tn's t't'e' tne Proceedings thereupon before the final order,
C. 348.
and, if the final order awards deliveryof the possession to the
petitioner, the issuing or execution of the warrant there
upon, cannot be stayed or suspended by any court or judge,
except in one of the following methods :
1. By an order made, or an undertaking filed, upon an
appeal, in a case and in the manner specially prescribed for
that purpose in this title.
2. By an injunction order, granted in an action against
the petitioner. Such an injunction shall not be granted
before the final order in the special proceeding, except in a
case where an injunction would be granted to stay the pro
ceedings, in an action of ejectment, brought by the peti
tioner, and upon the like terms; or after the final order,
except in a case where an injunction would be granted to
stay the execution of the final judgment in such an action,
and upon the like terms.
§ 2236. In a case specified insertion fourteen of this art,
or in any other case where it is specially prescribed by law,
that a court of record, or a judge thereof, or a referee
appointed by the court , has power to punish, by fine and im
prisonment , or either, or generally as a contempt, a neglect
or violation of duty, or other misconduct : and a right or
remedy of a party to a civil action or special proceeding
pending in the court, or before the judge or the referee, may
be defeated, unpaired, impeded, or prejudiced thereby, the
offense must be. punished as prescril>ed in this title,
§ 2267. Where the offense is committed in the imme
diate \ iew and presence of the court, or of the judge or
referee, upon a trial or hearing, it may be punished sum
marily. For that purpose, an order must be made by the
court, judge, or referee, stating the facts which constitute
the offense, and bring the case within the provisions of this
section, and plainly and specifically prescribing the punish
ment to be inflicted therefore.
§■2 268. Where the offense consists of a neglect or
refusal to obey an order of the court, requiring the payment of costs, or of a specified sum of money, and the
court is satisfied, by proof, by affidavit, that a ] ersoual
demand thereof has been made, and that payment thereof
has been refused or neglected ; it may issue, without notice,
a warrant to commit the offender to prison, until the costs
or other sum of money, and the costs and expenses of the
proceeding, are paid, or until he is discharged according to
law.
§ 2269. The court or judge, authorized to punish for
the offense, may, in its or his discretion, where the case is
one of those specified in either of the last two sections, and,
in every other case, must, upon being satisfied, by affidavit,
of the commission of the offense, either :
1. Make an order, requiring the accused to show cause
before it, or him, at a time and place therein specified, why
the accused should not be punished for the alleged offense ;
or
2. Issue a warrant of attachment, directed to the sheriff
of a particular county, or, generally, to the sheriff of any
county where the accused may be found, commanding him
to arrest the accused, and bring him before the court or
judge, either forthwith, or at a time and place therein speci
fied, to answer for the alleged offense.
§ 2270. Where it is prescribed by law, or by the general
rules of practice, that a notice may be served in behalf of a
party, upon a sheriff or other person, requiring him to re
turn a mandate, delivered to him, or to show cause, at a
.term of a court, why he should not be punished, or why an
attachment should not be issued against him, for a contempt
of the court ; the party, in whose behalf the notice is served,
may, at the time specified therein, file with the clerk, proof,
by affidavit or other written evidence, of the delivery of the mandate to the accused ; of the default or other net.
upon the occurrence of which, he was entitled to serve the
notice ; of the service of the notice ; and of the failure to
comply therewith. Thereupon the proceedings are the
same, as where an order to show cause is made, and it, and
a copy of the affidavits upon which it is granted, are served
upon the accused.
§ 2271. Where the order to show cause, or the warrant,
is returnable before the court, it may be made, or issued, as
prescribed in the last section but one, by any judge author
ized to grant an order without notice, in an action pending
in the court ; and it must be made returnable at a term of
the court, at which a contested motion may be heard.
82Hun,?28.
§ 2272. An order to show cause may be made, or a
warrant may be issued, as prescribed in section two thou
sand two hundred and sixty-nine of this act, by a referee
appointed by the court, where the offense is committed
upon the trial of an issue referred to him, or consists of a
witness's non-attendance, or refusal to be sworn or to testi
fy, before him. The order or warrant may, in the discre
tion of the referee, be made returnable before him, or
before the court. Where it is made returnable before the
referee, he has all the power and authority of the court,
with respect to the motion or special proceeding, instituted
thereby.
§ 2273. An order to show cause may be made, either
before or after the final judgment in the action, or the final
order in the special proceeding. It is equivalent to a notice
of motion ; and the subsequent proceedings thereupon are
taken in the action or special proceeding, as upon a motion
made therein. A warrant of attachment is a mandate,
whereby an original special proceeding is instituted against
the accused, in behalf of the people, upon the relation of
the complainant.
§ 2274. A copy of the warrant, and of the affidavit
upon which it is issued, must be served upon the accused,
when he is arrested by virtue thereof.
§ 2275. Where a warrant of attachment is issued, the
court, judge, or referee, may, in its or his discretion, by an
indorsement thereupon, fix a sum, in which the accused
may give an undertaking for his appearance to answer.
§ 2276. If an indorsement is not made upon the war
rant, as prescribed in the last section ; or if such an indorse
ment is made and an undertaking is not given, as pre
scribed in the next section ; the sheriff, after making the
arrest, as required by the warrant, must keep the accused
in his custody, until the further direction of the court,
judge, or referee. Where, from sickness or any other
cause, the accused is physically unable to attend before the
court, judge, or referee, that fact is a sufficient excuse to
the sheriff for not producing him as required by the war
§ 2277. Vu^r* at 11 • "T-^r.Tr »■ tu^j- tr t !:•• wi»rant a* :>rwrii>«: n. lu- m-" «"f";ji ou >■;--. iu- »-• u~-c
mu£3 i»t aiH-iianrec rr»it uttvt. ui»i u*- exf-innr huc
delrrerinr "it tot suerrl* »• tin tm»- :»n.r~ tir r--u7r ct
of tlae wansra'. at iniu-n.it:;; : u tu- i«r •- r» it tn* sure
specifics it tut iDQi»r*^njen" t :;; -wi suit ieir ?ut- tk> >r
the e£«3 tian Ut t\\ awrj" a ;^ iim- t u-l u,. um
place vte>: tiit v^u-Tsur 1- T-r.urtjbi'K hjil in.x imc .ti^t
abide t±«t cirecti'it (^ tu* '-mi—. iu .r- rr t---t~* »•. tin
case require*. Tut '"nV.-er ii.i.:i.r tn- «»'jai"^ri*-[imirar itf
the uttoerutkm^. but. r tut ->u^nE m T-*:urr-* csan-uitunder ob.iL.. 10 a reasmiaint *'X»»3r. tut 7>tfr->Ciia- >if ert-*. its
sureoet. conoenuiir tu-ir jir.i:x=-]i alio cur-umsiam-es.
§ 2278. If 1h* aecuxec i>- v tiit •-ii=i'>r;r of s *4ifriff or
other offioer, Vr-ri-rut of at ti-"j'i'i i^n.in=: Li? T"T5i.'m,
or by Tirrot «f" a mauat.vt for hii trjj-r c n,-.t?n.T>i or n.isconduct or a eonuniuutin ot l '.r^rLinL t-ni.-irt * warr-tit
of attachment euniot be i«u»*c. Jx ;i;ts «••*- tl.t court,
upon prryjf of tat lwtc. icu-t i"-FO» a «rrr; of hblieas ec-rprm.
directed to the offioer, rf-q-airitr Iittti t-.. tirrrir tbr aiviised
before it. to answer for tit of eur*- ti,tirjr-d. Tbt oSo«
to whom tbt wrh it directed, or uiko. wu.ini it is :*rv««l,
must, etcept in a cawwbere tiitprnjcTJ^m of trie iwcusod
under a warrani of att&cbm™t -irf.'aj.i lie dispensett with,
bring him before the wart, and d-'ain him at the r»)aoe
where the court is ratting until the further order of the
court.
§ 2279. The AerilF or other officer must file the under
taking, if any, taken by him, with the return to the war
rant or writ of habeas corpus.
g 2280. When the accused is produced, by virtue of a
warrant, or a writ of habeas corpus, or appears upon the
return of a warrant, the court, judge, or referee, must,
unless he admits the offense charged, cause interrogatories
to be filed, specifying the facts and circumstances of the
offense charged against him. The accused must make
writttn answers thereto, under oath, within such reasonable
time as the court, judge, or referee allows therefore; and
either party may produce affidavits, or other proofs, con
tradicting or corroborating any answer. Upon the oiiginal
affidavits, the answers, and subsequent proofs, the court,
judge, or referee must determine, whether the accused has
committed the offense charged.
£2281. If it is determined that the accused lias com- 8T N.Y.M1,
mitted the offense charged ; and that it was calculated to, &• N. Xj^
Super, ct. or actually did, defeat, impair, impede, or prejudice
55'10*00*' ^e "£nts or remedies of a party to an action or special
UJN.Y.181. proceeding, brought in the court, or before the judge or
referee; the court, judge, or referee must make a final
order accordingly, and directing that he be punished byfine
or imprisonment, or both, as the nature of the case requires.
A warrant of commitment must issue accordingly.
§ 2282. Where the accused is brought up by virtue of
a writ of habeas corpus, he must, after the final order is
made, be remanded to the custody of the sheriff, or other
officer, to whom the writ was directed. If the final order
directs that he be punished by imprisonment, or committed
until the payment of a sum of money, he must be so im
prisoned or committed, upon his discharge from custody
under the mandate, by vi tue of which he is held by the
sheriff, or other officer.
87 NT. 521.
§ 2283. Upon the return of an order to show cause, the
5 Civ. Pro. questions which arise must be determined, as upon any
other motion ; and, if the determination is to the effect
specified in the last section but one, the order thereupon
must be to the same effect as the final order therein pre
scribed. Upon a certified copy of the order so made, the
offender may be committed, without further process.
* n""*6''
§2284. If an actual loss or injury has been produced to
no N Y 131 a Partv t0 an action or special proceeding, by reason of the
misconduct proved against the offender, and the case is not
one where it is specially prescribed by law, that an action
may be maintained to recover damages, for the loss or in
jury, a fine, sufficient to indemnify the aggrieved party,
must be imposed upon the offender, and collected, and paid
over to the aggrieved party, under the direction of the
court. The payment and acceptance of such a fine consti
tute a bar to an action by the aggrieved party, to recover
damages for the loss or injury. Where it is not shown that
such an actual loss or injury has been produced, a fine
must be imposed, not exceeding the amount of the com
plainant's costs and expenses, and two hundred and fifty
dollars in addition thereto, and must be collected and paid,
in like manner. A corporation may be fined as prescribed
in this section,
is Abb. N.
§ 2285. Where the misconduct proved consists of an
50 h'*' sis omission to perforin an act or duty, which it is yet in the
113N.V.47d! power of the offender to perform, lie shall be imprisoned
20 N. Y.
only until he has performed it, and paid the fine imposed.
State Rep. jn 8Ucn a case, the order, and the wan nut of commitment,
243.
if one is issued, must specify the act or duly to be per
formed, and the sum to be paid. In every oilier case, where
special provision is not otherwise made liy law, the offender
may be imprisoned for a reasonable time, not exceeding six
months, and until the fine, if any, is paid ; and the order,
and the warrant of commitment, if any, must specify the
amount of the fine, and the duration of the imprisonment.
g 8286. Where an offender, imprisoned as prescribed in 29 Hun, 301.
this title, is unable to endure the imprisonment, or to pay ?? !]?■ !j*jthe sum, or perform the act or duty, required to be paid or
performed, in order to entitle him to be released, the court,
judge, or referee, or, where the commitment was made as
prescribed in section two thousand four hundred and fiftyseven of this act, the court, out ol which the execution was
issued, may, in its or bis discretion, ami upon such terms as
justice requires, make an order directing him to be dis
charged from the imprisonment.
§ 2287. A person, punished as prescribed in this title,
may, notwithstanding, be indicted for the same misconduct,
if it is an indictable offense ; but the court, before which
he is convicted, must, in forming its sentence, take into
consideration the previous punishment.
§ 2288. Where a person, arrested by virtue of a war
rant of attachment, has given an undertaking for his ap
pearance, as prescribed in this title, and fails to appear, on
the return day of the warrant, the court may either issue
another warrant, or make an order, directing the undertak
ing to be prosecuted ; or both.
§ 2289. The order, directing the undertaking to be
prosecuted, may, in the discretion of the court, direct the
prosecution thereof, by and in the name of any party ag
grieved by the misconduct of the accused. In such a case,
the plaintifff may recover damages, to the extent of the loss
or injury sustained by him, by reason of the misconduct,
together with the costs and expenses of prosecuting the
special proceeding in which the warrant was issued ; not
exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking.
§ 2290. If no party is aggrieved by the misconduct of
the accused, the order must, and, in any case where the
court thinks proper so to direct, it may, direct the prosecu
tion of the undertaking, by the Attorney-General, or by the
district-attorney of the county in which it was given, in the
name of the people. In an action, brought pursuant to
the order, the people are entitled to recover the entire sum,
specified in the undertaking. Out of the money collected,
the court, which directed the prosecution, must direct that
the person, at whose instance the warrant was issued, be
paid such a sum as it thinks proper, to satisfy the costs and
expenses incurred by him, and to compensate him for any
loss or injury sustained by him, by reason of the miscon
duct. The residue of the money must by paid into the
treasury of the State.
§ 2291. After the return of an execution, issued upon a
judgment, rendered in an action upon the undertaking, an
action, to recover the amount of the judgment, may be
maintained against the sheriff, where it appears that, at the
time when the undertaking was given, the sureties were in
sufficient, and the sheriff had reasonable grounds to doubt their sufficiency. Such an action may be maintained by
the plaintifff, in whose favor the judgment was recovered.
If the people were plaintifffs, the action must be prosecuted
by the Attorney-General or the district-attorney ; and any
money collected therein must he disposed of, as prescribed
in the last section.
§ 2292. Where a misconduct, which is punishable by fine
or imprisonment, as prescribed in this title, occurs at a term
of a circuit court, or with respect to a mandate returnable
at a term of that court, or a special proceediug pending in
that court, and was not punished at that term of the circuit
court ; the supreme court may inquire into and punish the
misconduct, as if it had occurred at a special term of the
supreme court, held in the same county, or with respect to
a mandate returnable at such a special term, or a special
proceeding pending in the supreme court.
§ 2293. Where a fine has been imposed by a court of rec
ord, upon a grand or trial juror, or upon any officer or other
person, without being accompanied with an order for the
immediate commitment of the person so fined, until the fine
is paid, the clerk of the court, immediately after the close
of the term at which the fine was imposed, must prepare a
schedule, containing, in separate columns, the following
matters :
1. The name of each person fined.
2. His place of residence, where it appears, from the
papers on file or before the court, to be within the county.
8. The amount of the fine imposed upon him.
4. The cause for which the fine was imposed.
The clerk must subjoin to the schedule a certificate, to
the effect, that it contains a true abstract of the orders im
posing fines, and must annex it to the warrant specified in
the next section.
§ 2294. The clerk must immediately issue a warrant,
under the seal of the court, directed to the sheriff of the
county, and commanding him to collect from each of the
persons, named in the schedule annexed to the warrant,
the sum therein set opposite that person's name ; and to
pay over the sum collected, to the treasurer of the county.
The warrant is the process of the court, by which the fines
were imposed.
§ 2295. If a delinquent resides in another county, a
separate warrant, for the collection of the fine imposed upon
him, with an appropriate schedule annexed theieto, must
be issued, in like manner, to the sheriff of the county where
he resides.
§ 2296. The sheriff, to whom a warrant is issued, must
collect each fine out of the personal property of t lie person
lined, as prescribed in chapter thirteenth of this act, for
the collection, by levy upon and sale of personal property,
of an execution issued out of a court of record ; and he is
entitled to like fees thereupon. If sufficient personal prop
erty of a delinquent cannot be found to pay the fine and
the fees, the sheriff must arrest the delinquent, and detain
him in custody until he pays the same, as upon an execu
tion against the person, issued in an action, out of the
supreme court ; and he is entitled to like fees thereupon.
§ 2297. The sheriff must return the warrant, with his
proceedings thereupon, at the term of the court ; or, where
the fine was imposed, in any county except New York, by
the supreme court, the circuit court, the court of oyer and
terminer, or the court of sessions, at the term of the county
court ; held next after the expiration of sixty'days from the
receipt thereof. If he fails so to do, the district-attorney
must take the same proceedings to compel a return, as may
be taken by a judgment creditor, where a sheriff omits to
return an execution, issued out of the supreme court.
§ 2298. Where it appears, by the return, that a fine
remains uncollected, and it does not appear that the sheriff
has the delinquent in custody, the district-attorney must, if
he has good reason to believe that the sheriff might, with
due diligence, have collected the fine, or at rested and de
tained the delinquent, commence an action against the
sheriff, in the name of the people. Otherwise he must di
rect the clerk to issue a new warrant, or to include the fine
in the schedule annexed to the next warrant, to be issued
by him. A new warrant may, from time to time, be issued,
or the fine may be included in the schedule annexed to a
subsequent warrant, until it is collected.
§ 2299. Where the clerk issues a warrant, as prescribed
in this title, he must include in the schedule thereto an
nexed, the name of each person who has been fined, prior
to the issuing thereof, and whose fine remains then wholly
or partly unpaid, and not remitted by the court.
§ 2300. An action may be maintained, in behalf of the jj cAv. Pro.
people, against a sheriff, to whom a warrant is directed and 827.
delivered, as prescribed in this title, to recover damages for
any omission of duty with respect to the same, in a case
where a judgment creditor might maintain an action
against a sheriff, to whom an execution issued out of the
supreme court is directed and delivered. In such an action,
the people are entitled to recover the same damages, which a judgment creditor would be entitled to recover, if the
order imposing the fine was a judgment of the supreme
court.
§ 2301. This title does not apply to a case, where
special provision for the collection of a fine is otherwise
niade by law.
§ 2302. A person entitled to claim real property, after
the death of another who has a prior estate therein, may,
not oftener than once in each calendar year, apply by peti
tion to the supreme court, at a special term thereof, held
within the judicial district, wherein the property, or a part
thereof, is situated, for an order, directing the production
of the tenant for life, as prescribed in this title by a person,
named in the petition, against whom an action of ejectment
to recover the real property can be maintained, if the ten
ant for life is dead ; or, where there is no such person, by
the guai dian, husband, trustee, or other person, who has,
or is entitled to, the custody of the person of the tenant for
life, or the care of his estate.
§ 2303. The petition must be in writing, and verified
by the affidavit of the petitioner, to the effect, that the mat
ters of fact therein set forth are true. It must contaiii :
1. A description of the real property, and a statement of
the petitioner's interest therein, and of such other facts as
show that the case is within the provisions of the last sec
tion.
2. An averment that the petitioner believes that the per
son, upon whose life the prior estate depends, is dead to
gether with a statement of the grounds upon which the
petitioner's belief is founded.
§ 2304. A copy of the petition including the affidavit,
together with notice of the time and place at which the
petition will be presented, must be personally served, a'
least fourteen days before its presentation, upon the per
son required, by the prayer thereof, to produce the tenant
for life.

atfidaTrn. wiia me twt. t- r± j.t—:_ 2 *?——.•■■ : » r-'v
therrod anit ir-tu» - •-; -_ r »^±--«-: n.ii»* r. at- -.uraris not ii:m n- -tie mr5>r'--» -,v~ t_~ - ™ i -•* -timissaeacimmi.'viKn. e*- — »-r: - . n :_- . '. ~^~~~ *-■:•.•--*of tha^'ie; ormaiii- in ir^rn .:rr~;r_-; z^r 1 --•£><■ tctal a tmK mil ;iu^ ..f.-r.n 1—_--_ -— U- - :r". ir »
referee sherr-m i«^*;si_:— i. T. it- .r_ - :.r i-err-ci ura
whose 2.--* "lui -jrrnr -•- ir- i^-- ■ r n UrT.^il utr^ji;
to piOTi; iuir ok j. J'-il^.
§ S30CL ^Pjbb m imp- -T-mrTr:.r tie irr-»nii-T>m /£
the tenani: 5ir i;>*. inr- .i i^a .r • i"Hi s- Trmft; »r tthscriDwi in. im jurf #»- . 1::. 1 -~—uirri -n:v ut-T^nL nua nr
served, an lewc 31 urvr-n ui- .«-*.irr- lu- Tnm :aKrv_u siv.i~
fied, up»in tXK -ivrr—n. T-uir-i n -n...t,t "a« in- •::ur,:i.u nproof. or ricoc. ji* bt. — . --. 7>n 7i*-^iT:i"'a ic ;mn,if
of serraeii. ay sfiita— r. _ii- 1- -ur. cr je T-.i-.r-~. xis. «c
the time anil -Tuias «;»- .~i -,. 11 ok u"^r. rr ir Lit; ih:k jin£
place to wj^'i _oh M-ariis il.^ .1* a: i.in-:e^:_ itri? zin uU:~
lOitiocK* in*! >r*>' c+ ,r ;ir ,*.- >?*. t*—"•t-^iriir "Lie <.t^:-r /if
any ptrst.n. 5'" cii'-l "y~rj. u« ik;t>.i:l "rjj.<* iit^j. i> rr.
questi..a . <:r. -f "Jii _ar tr >^x.n. Jf jijc 7r-.«ru:-':L ??srev!;
ing jhe reast.ru* f.c "i»t ii." ;_-? .. -;r-.c j:- 1 tt jail vii;u«x
be is lit Ir. r, *• it»r^ 1 r-p-- -1 » cnir.".^ in is- iok suji*
powers, *ni- 3* «r: f-L i: xu* sunf :• cr^»nnsi~>:a» j^ »
referee *pf»:i^i.^*l - :c jjr ^raJ . ; ti i=^rjf ^. ti ito.-a^
g 2307. 15 r; wwr* *t irSiirh. x -j* sKasf*.-«at« ,^
the court, tfeaa i^ ;.-!•-. a r-.-^_~: w ">f rc\>i-j«« » ;S>,
prisontd w-r^nz. "^* r-..i<»- : <r »^t ct^^f^ #i«c« tw» *
sentence U.r k Jw .;r » if7« ic it--i—-vl. «:;>..» t^
State, by any j»er!» c li* «. ci r^i-r. e-;ici IviVr* «c «fVr
making tt* «-jrr f:«r f^rc^j^ric. i<--je a w-t t>t" hstv«»
corpus to !*-> r^iri "oef'.-ne ii. or w:\-r* ih* n :>«y. »s »V
case requires 1 ie wrn mw t* -irrrKi «CJ executed. *>h)
(lisobMiitix* -Jj^r«<:. ir^v be punisii^i. as whorv « xtril <»f
halxas corpus is isfised, to ic^-jine iu:o the nuw of ll^
detention 01 a pri*>ccr.
§ 2308. The referee must deliTer his n>pt>rt to thp p^||.
tioner, or file it wiih the clerk within ten <l»vs aftor Ihn
case is closed. He must state therein, whcthor any ixrwui
w..g or was not produced be/ore him. as bdnir the pcrmm
whose death is m question. He must ftp|x>nu Uitnvln tu
the form of depositions, the pr ofs. if anv. rt\»iH>,-llnrf ||m
identity of any person so produred. with tlto ixmnoh \\|i,v«„
death is in question ; or. if no one is so prndt d. upon lli«
question whether the lattir person is livinjr. ||'< 11111*1,
also state, in his report, his conclusions upon lln- iim.NtlonH
controverted before him.
§ 2309. If it appears, to the sat Is faction „f (,|i.« court,
upon the referee s report and the proofs thereto appended ;
or, where a referee is not appointed, upon the nlleKal,loi.H and proofs of the parties before the court ; that the party,
required to produce the tenant for life, or to prove his ex
istence, has fully complied with the order, the court must
make an order dismissing the petition, and requiring the
petitioner to pay the costs of the proceedings.
§ 2310. If it appears, from the referee's report, or upon
the hearing before the court, that the person, upon whose
life the prior estate depends, was not produced ; and if tie
party required to produce him, or to prove his existence,
has not proved, to the satisfaction of the court, that he is
living ; a final order must be made, declaring that he is
presumed to be dead, for the purpose of the proceedings,
and directing that the petitioner be forthwith let into pos
session of the real property, as if that person was actually
dead.
§ 2311. If, before or at the time of the presentation of
the referee's report to the court, or, where a referee is not
appointed, at any time before the final order is made, the
party, upon whom the petition and notice are served, pre
sents to the court presumptive proof, by affidavit, that the
person, whose death is in question, is, or lately was at a
place certain, without the State, the court must make an
order, requiring the petitioner to take out a commission,
directed to one or more persons, residing at or near that
place, either designated in the order, or to be appointed
upon a subsequent application for the commission, for the
purpose of obtaining a view of the person, whose death is
in question, and of taking such testimony, respecting his
identity, as the parties produce.
The order must also
direct that the proceedings upon the petition be stayed,
until the return of the commission ; and that the petition
be dismissed with costs, unless the petitioner takes out the
commission, within a time specified in the order, and
diligently procures it to be executed and returned, at his
own expense.
§ 2312. It is not necessary, unless the court specially
so direcls, that the witnesses to be examined should be
named in the commission, or that interrogatories should be
annexed thereto. The commission must be executed and
returned, and the deposition taken must be filed and used,
as prescribed for those purposes in article second of title
third of chapter ninth of this act, except as otherwise
specially prescribed in this title.
S< 2313. The petitioner must give to the adverse party,
or his attorney, written notice of the time when, and the
place where, the commissioner or commissioners will at
tend, for the purpose of executing the commission, as
follows :
1. If the place, where the commission is to be executed.
is within the United States, or the dominion of Canada, ho
must give at least two months' notice.
2. If it is within either of the West India islands, he must
give at least three months' notice,
3. In every other case, he must give at least four months'
notice.
Notice may be given, as required by this section, by
serving it as prescribed in this act for the service of a paper
upon an attorney, in an action in the supreme court.
§ 2314. The commissioner or commissioners possess the
same powers, and must proceed in the same manner, as a
referee, appointed by an order requiring the production of
the tenant for life, or proof of his existence ; except that
they cannot proceed, unless a person is produced before
them, as being the person whose death is in question. The
return to the commission must expressly state whether any
person was or was not so produced. The testimony, re
specting the identity of a person so produced, must be
taken, unless otherwise specially directed by the court, as
prescribed in chapter ninth of this act, for taking the depositition of a witness upon oral interrogatories ; except
that it is not necessary to give any other notice of the time
and place of examination, than that prescribed in the last
section.
§ S3 15. Upon the return of the commission, the pro
ceedings are the same as upon the report of a referee, as
prescribed in sections two thousand three hundred and
nine and two thousand three hundred and ten of this act ;
but the court may, in its discretion, receive additional
proofs from either party.
§ 2316. Where costs of a special proceeding, taken as
prescribed in this title, are awarded, they must be fixed by
the court at a gross sum, not exceeding fifty dollars, in
addition to disbursements. Where provision is not
specially made in this title for the award of costs, they may
be denied, or awarded to or against either party, as justice
requires
§ 2317. The possession of real property, which has
been awarded to the petitioner, as prescribed in this title,
upon the presumption of the death of the persoo, upon
whose life the prior estate depends, must be restored, by
the order of the court, to the person evicted, or to his heirs
or legal representatives, upon the petition of the latter, and
proof, to the satisfaction of the court, that the person pre
sumed to be dead is living. The proceedings upon such
an application are the same, as prescribed in this title,
upon the application of the person to whom possession is
awarded.
§ 2818. A person evicted, as prescribed in this title,
may, if the presumption, upon which he is evicted, is erro
neous, maintain an action against the person who has occu
pied the property, or his executor or administrator, to re
cover the rents and profits of the property, during the
occupation, while the person, upon whose life the prior
estate depends, is or was living.
§ 2319. A final order, made as prescribed in this title,
awarding to the petitioner the possession of real property,
is presumptive evidence only, in an action of ejectment,
brought against him by the person evicted, or in an action
brought as prescribed in the last section, of the life or
death of the person upon whose life the prior estate de
pends.
§ 2320. The Jurisdiction of the supreme court extends
c. i*o.
to the custody of the person and the care of the property,
sold. Ms. 0j a person incompetent to manage himself or his affairs,
in consequence of lunacy, idiocy, or habitual drunken
ness. Where a superior city court, or a county court, or
both, have jurisdiction of those matters, concurrent with
that of the supreme court, the jurisdiction of the court first
exercising it, as prescribed in this title, is exclusive of that
of the others, with respect to any matter within its jurisdic
tion, for which provision is made in this title.
§ 2321. The court exercising jurisdiction over the
properly of either of the incompetent persons specified in
the last section, must preserve his property from waste oi
destruction ; and out of the proceeds thereof must pn
ride for the payment of his debts, and for the safe keeping and maintenance, and the education, when required, of the
incompetent person and his family.
§ 2322. The jurisdiction, specified in the last two sec
tions, must be exercised by means of a committee of the
person, or a committee of the property, or of a particular
portion of the property, of the incompetent person, ap
pointed as prescribed in this title The committee of the
person and the committee of the property may be the same
individual, or different individuals, in the discretion of the
court.
§ 8323. An application for the appointment of such a
committee must be made by petition, which may be pre
sented by any person. Where the application is made to
the supreme court, the petition must be presented at a spe
cial term, held within the judicial district where the per
son alleged to be incompetent resides ; or, if he is not a
resident of the State, or the place of his residence cannot
be ascertained, where some of his property is situated.
§ 2324. Where the incompetent person has property,
which may be endangered in consequence of his incom
petency, and no relative or other person applies for the ap
pointment of a committee of his property, the overseer or
superintendent of the poor of the town, district, county, or
city, in which lie resides, or, where there is no such officer,
the officer cr officers performing corresponding functions
under another official title, must apply to ttie proper court,
for the appointment of such a committee The expenses
of conducting the proceedings thereupon must be audited
and allowed, in the same manner as other official expenses
of these officers are audited and allowed.
$ "2325 [Am'd 1891. amendment to take effect September i, 1891.]
The petition must be in writing, and Terified by the affidavit of the
petitioner, or his attorney, to the effect that the matters of f-ct therein
stated are true. It must be accompanied with proof, by affidavit, that
thecateis one of those specified In this title. It must set forth thj
names and residences of the husband or wife, if any, and of the next nf
kin and heirs of the person alleged to be incompetent; a< far as the
same are known to the petitioner, or can. with rejsona >le dil.gence, be
ascertained by him, and also the probable value of the property pos
sessed and owned by the alleged incompetent person, and what property
has been conveyed during sa id alleged incompetency and to whom, ana
its value ana what consideration was paid for it, if* any, or was agreed
to be paid . The court must, miles,- sufficient reasons for dispensing
therewith are set forth in the petition or accompanying affidavit, re
quire notice of the presentation of the petition to be given to the husband
or wife, if any, or to one or more relatives of the person allegi d ro be In
competent, or to an officer (specified in the last section. When notice is re
quired, it may be given in any manner which the conrt deems proper ;
and for that purpose, the hearing may be adjourned to a subsequent
day, or to another term at which the petition might have been pre
sented.

§ 2326. Where the person, alleged to be incompetent,
resides without the State, and within the United States,
and a committee or guardian of his property has been duly
appointed, pursuant to Ihe laws of the state or territory
where, he resides, the court may, in its discretion, make an
order, appointing the foreign committee, or foreign guar
dian, the committee of all. or of a particular portion, of
the property of the incompetent person, within the State,
upon his giving such security for the discharge of his
trust, as the court thinks proper.
$2337. [Am'd 1891, amendment to take effect September 1,1891.]
Unlessan order U made as prescribed in the last section, if it presump
tively appears, to the satisfaction of the court from the petition and
the proofs accompanying it thai, the case is one of those specified in this
title, and tat a committee ou^ht, in the exercise of a Bound discretion,
to be appointed, the court mut-t matce an order directing: either.
1. That a commission istue, as pi escribed in the next section to one
or more fit persons designated in the order, or
2 That the questions of fact arising upon the competency of the
p.Tson, with respect to' whom the petit. on prays for the appointment of
a committee, be tried by a jury at a trial term of the court ; or, if the
petition was presented to the supreme court at a term of the circuit court
for a county specified in the order.
8. When it satisfactorily appears from the petition and accompany
ing affidavits that any person or persons having acquired from the
alleged incompetent person, real or personal property during the time
of such alleged incompetency without adequate consideration, the court
may issue an order, with or witho.t security restraining such per.-on or
persons from selling, assigning, disposing of or incumbering said prop
erty, or confessing judgment which shall become a lien upon said proparty, during the pendency of the proceeding for the appointment of a
tonrmittee, and said order may in the discretion of the court be con
tinued for ten days after the appointment of such committee. Notice of
the execution of the commission shall be given to the person orpersons
enjoined in such manner as the court may direct.
§ 2338. The commission mut-t direct the commissioners to cause
the sheriff of a county, specified therein, to procuiea jury ; ai.d that
they inquire, by the jury, into the matters set forth in the petition ;
and also Into the valuebf the real and' i ersonal property of the person
alleged to be incompetent, and the amountof his income. It may ci n^ain such other directions, with respect to the subjects, of inquiry, or
the manner of executing the commission, as the court directs to be i..eerted therein .
§ 2320. Each commissioner, before entering upon the
execution of his duties, must subscribe and take, before
one of the officers specified in section eight hundred and
forty-two of this act, and file with the clerk, an oath, faith
fully, honestly, and impartially to discharge the trust com
mitted to him. If a commissioner becomes incompetent,
or neglects or refuses to serve, or removes from the State,
the court may remove him. The court may, from time
to time, fill any vacancy created by death, removal, or
resignation.
§ 2330. The commissioners, or a majority of them,
must immediately issue a precept to the sheriff, designated
In the commission, requiring him to notify, not less than
twelve nor more than twenty-four indifferent persons,
qualified to serve, and not exempt from serving, as trial
jurors in the tame court, to appear before the commission
ers, at a specified time and place, within the county, to
make inquiry, as commanded by the commission. The sheriff must notify the jurors accordingly ; and must re
turn the precept, and the names of the persons notified, to
the commissioners, at the time and place specified in the
precept. The commissioners, or a majority of them, must
determine a challenge made to a juror.
I pon the failure
to attend, of a person who has been duly notified, his at
tendance may be compelled ; and he may be punished by
the court for a contempt, as where a juror, duly notilieef,
fails to attend at a circuit court, or a trial term of the
court. The commissioners may require the sheriff to cause
a talesman to attend, in place of a juror notified, and not
attending, or who is excused or discharged , or they may
adjourn the proceedings, for the purpose of punishing the
defaulting juror, or compelling his attendance. But it is
not necessary to cause any talesman to attend, if at least
twelve of the persons, notified by the sheriff, appear and
are sworn.
§ 2331. All the commissioners must attend and preside
at the hearing ; and they or a majority of them, have, with
respect to the proceedings upon the hearing, all the power
and authority of a judge of the court, holding a trial term,
subject to the directions contained in the commission.
Either of the commissioners may administer the usual oath
to the jurors. At least twelve jurors must concur in a find
ing. If twelve do not concur, the jurors must report their
disagreement to the commissioners, who must thereupon
discharge them, and issue a new precept to the sheriff, to
procure another jury.
§ 2332. The inquisition must be signed by the jurors
concurring therein, and by the commissioncrs.oramajority
of them, and annexed to the commission. The commission
and inquisition must be returned by the commissioners,
and filed with the clerk.
§ 2333. The commissioners are entitled to such compen
sation for their services, as the court directs. The jurors
are entitled to the same compensation, as jurors upon the
trial of an issue in an action in the same court. The peti
tioner must pay the compensation of the commissioners,
sheriff, and jurors.
§ 2334. Where an order is made, directing the trial,
by a jury, at a trial term or at a circuit court, of the ques
tions of fact, arising upon the competency of the person,
with respect to whom the petition prays for the appoint
ment of a committee, the order must state, distinctly and
plainly, the questions of fact to be tried ; which may be
settled as where an order for a similar trial is made in an
action. The court may, in that or in a subsequent order,
direct that notice of the trial be given to such persons, and
in such a manner, as it deems proper. The trial must be
reviewed in the same manner, and with like effect, and,
except as otherwise directed in the order, the proceedings thereupon are, in all respects, the same, as where questions
of fact are tried, pursuant to au order for that purpose.
The court may make inquiry, by means of a reference or
otherwise, as it thinks proper, with respect to any matter,
not involved in the questions tried by the jury, the deter
mination of which is necessary in the course of the pro
ceedings. The expenses of the trial, and of such an in
quiry, must be paid by the petitioner.
§ S335. Where the petition alleges, that the person,
wj(;h respect to whom it prays for the appointment of a
committee, is incompetent, by reason of lunacy, the inquiry
with respect to his competency, upon the execution of a
commission, or the trial at a circuit court or trial term, as
prescribed in this title, must be confined to the question,
whether he is so incompetent, at the time of the inquiry ;
and testimony, respecting any thing said or done by him,
or his demeanor or state of mind, more than two years
before the hearing or trial, shall not be received as proof of
lunacy, unless the court otherwise specially directs, in the
order granting the commission or directing the trial by
jury.
§ 2336. Upon the return of the commission, with the
inquisition taken thereunder, or the rendering of the verdict
°f lne iury> upon the questions submitted to it by the order
for a trial by a jury, the court must either direct a new
trial or hearing, or make such a final order upon the peti
tion, as justice requires. Where a final order is made,
dismissing a petition, the court may, in its discretion, award
in the order a fixed sum, as costs, not exceeding fifty dollars
and disbursements, to be paid by the petitioner to the ad
verse party. Where a committee of the property is ap
pointed, the court must direct the payment by him, out of
the funds in his hnnds, of the necessary disbursements of
the petitioner, and of such a sum, for his costs and counsel
fees, as it thinks reasonable ; and it may, in its discretion,
direct the committee to pay a sum, not exceeding fifty
dollars and disbursements, to the attorney for any adverse
party.
§ 2337. [Am'd 1887.1 The provisions of article first of
title seventh and section two thousand five hundred and
ninety-five of article fifth of title second of chapter eight
eenth of this act, respecting the security to be given by the
guardian of the person or of the property of an infant,
appointed by a surrogate's court, apply to a committee of
the person or of the property, appointed as prescribed in
Ihis article. A committee of the property cannot enter
upon the execution of his duties, until security is given as
prescribed by the court. A committee of the person cannot
enter upon the execution of his duties until security is given,
if required by the court.
§ 2338.. [Am'd 1890.] A committee of the property fa entitled to the same compensation as an executor or admin
istrator. But in a special case where his services exceed
those of an executor or administrator, the supreme court
or a superior city court or a county court within the county
may allow him such an additional compensation for such
additional services as it deems just. The compensation of a
committee of the person must be fixed by the court and
paid by the committee of the property if any, out of the
funds in his hands. The additional compensation author
ized by this section may be allowed to the committee upon
any judicial settlement made by him, and shall be for such
additional services up to and including such settlement.
§ 2339. A committee, either of the person or of the
property, is subject to the direction and control of the
court by which he was appointed, with respect to the execu
tion of his dulies; and he may be suspended, removed, or
allowed to resign, in the discretion of the court. A vacancy
created by death, removal, or resignation, may be filled by
the court. But a committee of the property cannot alien,
mortgage, or otherwise dispose of, real property, except to
lease it for a term not exceeding five years, without the
special direction of the court, obtained upon proceed
ings taken for that purpose, as prescribed in title seventh of
this chapter.
§8340. A committee of the property, appointed as n civ. Pro.
prescribed in this title may maintain, in his own name, S!0adding his official titlt any action or special proceeding,
which the person, wit. respect to whom he is appointed,
might have maintainec if the appointment had not been
made.
§ 2341. The provisions of article second of title seventh
of chapter eighteenth of this act, requiring the general
guardian of an infant's property, appointed by a surrogate's
court, to file, in the month of January of each year, an in
ventory, account, and affidavit, and prescribing the form of
the papers so to be filed, apply to a committee of the
property, appointed as prescribed in this title. For the
purpose of making that application, the committee is
deemed a general guardian of the property ; the person,
with respect to whom he is appointed, is deemed a ward ;
and the papers must be filed in the office of the clerk of the
court, by which the committee was appointee) ; or, if he
was appointed by the supreme court, in the clerk's office
where the order appointing him is entered.
§ 2342. In the month of February of each year, the
presiding judge of the court, by which the committee of
the property was appointed ; or, if he was appointed by
the supreme court, the count}' judge of the county where
the order appointing him is entered ; must examine, or
cause to be examined under his direction, all accounts and
inventories filed by committees of the property, since the
first day of February of the preceding year. If it appears,

200 COMMITTEE OP INCOMPETENT. § 2343, 2344
upon the examination, that a committee, appointed as pre
scribed in this title, has omitted to file his annual inventory
or account, or the affidavit relating thereto, as prescribed
in the last section ; or if the judge is of opinion that the
interest of the person, with respect to whom the committee
was appointed, requires that he should render a more full
or satisfactory inventory or account ; the judge must
make an order, requiring the committee to supply
the deficiency, and also, in his discretion, personally
to pay the expense of serving the order upon him.
An order so made may be entered and enforced,
and the failure to obey it may be punished, as if ii
was made by the court. Where the committee fails to
comply with the order within three months after it is made,
or, where the judge has reason to believe, that sufficient
cause exists for the removal of the committee, the judge
may, in his discretion, appoint a fit person special guardian
of the incompetent person, with respect to whom the com
mittee was appointed, for the purpose of filing a petition in
his behalf, for the removal of the committee, and prosecut
ing the necessary proceedings for that purpose. The com
mittee may be compelled in the discretion of the court, to
pay personally the costs of the proceedings so instituted.
§ 2343. Where a person, with respect to whom a com
mittee is appointed, as prescribed in this title, becomes
competent to manage himself or his affairs, the court must
make an order, discharging the committee of his property,
or the committee of his person, or both as the case re
quires ; and requiring the former committee to restore to
him the property remaining in the committee's hands.
Thereupon the property must be restored accordingly.
17 n. T.
§ 2344. Where a person of whose property a committee
Slate ^Sa' nas been appointed, as prescribed in this title, dies during
■ his incompetency, the power of the committee ceases ; and
the property of the decedent must be administered and dis
posed of, as if a committee had not been appointed.
§ 2345. In either of the following cases, an action may
be maintained against an infant, or a person incompetent to
manage his affairs by reason of lunacy, idiocy, or habitual
drunkenness, to procure a judgment, directing a convey
ance of real property, or of an interest in real property :
1. Where the infant or incompe'ent person is seized or
possessed of the real property, or interest in real property,
by way of mortgage, or only in trust for another.
2. Where a valid contract for the sale or conveyance of
the real property, or interest in real property, has been
made ; but a conveyance thereof cannot be made, by reason
of the infancy or incompetency of the person in whom the
title is vested.
§ 2346. [Am'd 1882.] An action may be maintained,
in a case specified in the last section, by a person entitled to
the conveyance ; and also in a case specified in subdivision
second of that section, by the executor or administrator of
the person who made the contract, or of a person who died
seized or possessed of the real property, or interest in real
property, or by an heir or devisee of either of those persons,
to whom the real property has descended, or was devised.
The action may be maintained by the committee of the
lunatic or other incompetent person ; but in that case the
court must appoint a special guardian for the incompetent
person, as required by law, where an infant is defendant,
and the proceedings are the same as in a like action against
an infant.
§ 2347. A judgment, directing such a conveyance, shall
pot be rendered, unless the court, after hearing the parties
is satisfied that the conveyance ought to be made. Upon
rendering final judgment to that effect, the court has power
to direct the guardian of the infant's property, or the com
mittee of the property of the lunatic or other incompetent
person, or a special guardian appointed in the action, to ex
ecute any conveyance, or to do any other act, which is nee
essary, in order to carry the judgment into effect.
§8348. [Am'd 1890.] In either of the following cases
real property, or a term, estale, or other interest in re-ii r? im
properly, belonging to an infant, or a person incompetent
to manage his affairs, by reason of lunacy, idiocy, or habit
ua' drunkenness may be sold, conveyed, mortgaged or
leased, as prescribed m the following sections of this title •
1 Where the personal property, and the income of the
real property of the infant or incompetent person are
together insufficient.for the payment of his debts or for
hUfom?lyenanCe andnecessal7 education of himself and
2. Where the interests of the infant or incompetent ner
son require,-or will be substantially promoted bysuch dls"
position, on,aceount of the real property or term »=£♦
other interest in real property, being IkZseA^'nZ ?' °T
dilapidation for being who.ly' unp^Xe ; orfofthe purpose of raising funds to preserve or improve the same ;
or for other peculiar reasons, or on account of other pecu
liar circumstances.
5 Dem. 273.
3. Where an action might be maintained against the in
fant or incompetent person, to procure a judgment, direct
ing the conveyance of the real property or interest in real
property, as prescribed in sections twenty-three hundred
and forty-five and twenty-three hundred and forty-six of this
act
§ 2349. An application, in either of the cases prescribed
in the last section, must be made by the petition of the general
guardian, or the guardian of the property of the infant ; or
by the committee of the property of the lunatic or other in
competent person ; or by any relative, or other person, in
behalf of either. Where the application is in behalf of an
infant of the age of fourteen years or upwards, the infant
must join therein. Where the application is made to the
supreme court, the petition must be presented at a term
held within the judicial district, in which the property, or a
part thereof, is situated.
§ 2350. The petition must be verified, in like manner as
a verified pleading in an action in the supreme court. It
must set forth the grounds of the application ; and, in a
case specified in subdivision first or second of the last sec
tion but one, it must also state the particulars and value of
the real and personal property, and the amount of the in
come, of the infant or incompetent person ; the disposition
which has been made of his personal property ; and an ac
count of the debts or demands, if any, existing against his
estate.
§ 2351. An application to sell, mortgage, or lease real
property, or an interest in real property, of a lunatic, idiot,
or habitual drunkard, cannot be granted, unless a committee
of his property has been appointerl. Upon such an appli
cation, if it is made by the committee, the court must make
an order, directing him to file with the clerk a bond, in
such a form, in such an amount, and with such sureties, as
it directs, conditioned for the faithful discharge of his trust ;
for the paying over and investing of, and accounting for,
all money received by him in the special proceeding, accord
ing to the direction of any court having authority to give
directions in the premises ; and for the observance of the
directions of the court, in relation to the trust. If the
application is made by any other person, an order must be
made thereupon, requiring the committee to show cause
why he should not file such a bond. If, after hearing the
committee, the court is of opinion, that there is probable
cause for granting the application, it may make an order,
requiring the committee to file such a bond ; or, if the com
mittee so elects, or fails to file the bond as directed in the
order, it may appoint a suitable person to be the special guardian of the incompetent person, with respect to the
proceedings ; who must thereupon file such a bond.
§ 2352. Upon an application to sell, mortgage, or lease
real property, or an interest in real property, of an infant,
the court must appoint a suitable person to be the special
guardian of the infant, with respect to the proceedings ;
who must thereupon file with the clerk a bond, as prescribed
in the last section.
§5 2353. Upon a breach of the condition of a bond, given 23 Abb. N.
as prescribed in either of the last two sections, the court c- 15must direct it to be prosecuted for the benefit of the person
.njured.
§ 2354. Upon the presentation of the petition, and the
filing of the bond, the court must make an order, appoint
ing a suitable person a referee, to inquire into the merits of
the application. The referee must examine into the truth
of the allegations of the petition ; hear the allegations and
proofs of all persons interested in the property, or other
wise interested in the application ; and report his opinion
i hereupon, together with the testimony, with all convenient
speed.
§ 2355. Upon the filing of the referee's report, and after
examining into the matter, the court must make a final
order upon the application. In a proper case, a final order,
confirming the referee's report, must direct that the real
property, or term, estate, or other interest in reil property,
or a part thereof, as is necessary, or as justice requires, be
mortgaged, let for a term of years, sold or conveyed, by
the special guardian, appointed as prescribed in this title,
or by the committee of the property of the lunatic or other
incompetent person. The final order may also contain such
directions, respecting the time, manner, and conditions of
a sale or conveyance directed thereby, as the court thinks
proper to insert therein.
§ 2356. Before a sale, mortgage, or lease can be made,
pursuant to the final order, the special guardian, or the
committee, must enter into an agreement therefore, subject
to the approval of the court ; and must report the agree
ment to the court, under oath. Upon the confirmation
thereof, by the order of the court, he rrust execute, as
directed by the court, a deed, mortgage, or lease. Where
the final order directs the execution of a conveyance in the
first instance, for the purpose of fulfilling a contract, or
because the property is held by way of mortgage, or in
trust only, the guardian, or committee, executing the con
veyance, must report the conveyance to the court, under
oath.
§ 2357. Real property, or an interest in real property,
shall not be sold, leased, or mortgaged, as prescribed in this
title, contrary to the provisions of a will, by which it was
devised, or of a conveyance or other instrument, by which
it was transferred, to the infant or incompetent person.
§ 2358. A deed, mortgage, or lease, made, in good faith,
as prescribed in this title, either upon an application in
behalf of an infant or an incompetent person, or pursuant
to the directions contained in a judgment rendered against
him, has the same validity and effect, as if it was executed
by the person, in whose behalf it was executed, and as if
the infant was of full age, or the lunatic, idiot, or habitual
drunkard was of sound mind, and competent to manage his
affairs.
§ 2359. A sale of real property, or of an interest in real
property, of an infant or incompetent person, made aa pre
scribed in this title, does not give to the infant or incompe
tent person, any other or greater interest in the proceeds of
the sale, than he had in the property or interest sold.
Those proceeds are deemed property of the same nature, as
the estate or interest sold, until the infant arrives at full
age, or the incompetency is removed.
§ 2360. Prom the time of the filing of a petition, by or
in behalf of an infant, praying for an order directing a
conveyance, or a sale, mortgage, or lease of his real prop
erty, or of an interest in real property, the infant is con
sidered a ward of the court, with respect to that real prop
erty or interest, and the income and proceeds thereof.
§ 2361. [Am'd 1890.] The court must, by order, direct
the disposition of the proceeds of such a sale, mortgage or
lease. It must direct the investment of any portion thereof
belonging to the infant or incompetent person, which is not
needed for the payment of debts, or the safekeeping, or
the immediate maintenance and education of himself or his
family, or for the preservation or improvement of his real
property or his interest in real property. It must require a
report, under oath, of the disposition and investment
thereof, to be made as soon as practicable, and must com
pel periodical accounts to be rendered thereafter, by such
person, who is intrusted with the proceeds, or any part
thereof.
§ 2362. Where the real property, or the estate, term,
or other interest in real property, directed to be sold, is
subject, absolutely or contingently, to a right of dower, or
an estate for life, or is subject to an estate for years, in the
whole or any part thereof, the person, having the prior
right or estate, may manifest in writing his consent, either
to receive, from the proceeds of the sale, a gross sum, to
be fixed according to the principles of law applicable to an
nuities, in satisfaction of his right or estate ; or to have a
proportionate share of the proceeds of the sale invested,
and the interest thereof paid to him, from the time of the
investment, or of the commencement of his right or estate,
as justice requires, until the determination of his right or
estate. Upon filing the consent with the clerk, the final
order may, in the discretion of the court, direct .a sale of the entire property, to which the right or estate attaches.
In such a case, the court must, after the sale, ascertain the
value of the right or interest of the person so consenting;
and the final order must either direct the payment, from
the proceeds of the sale, of the gross sum so ascertained as
the value, or the investment of a just proportion of the
proceeds, and the payment to him of the interest thereof.
But such a gross sum shall not be paid, nor shall such an
investment be made, until an effectual release of the right
or estate of the person so consenting, executed to the satis
faction of the court, and duly acknowledged or proved, and
certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded in the
county, has been filed with the clerk.
§ 2363. "Where the interest of the infant, or of the
lunatic or other incompetent person, consists of a right
of dower, or an estaie for life, or for years, the final order
may authorize the special guardian or committee to join,
with the person or persons holding the reversionary estate,
in a conveyance of the property to which the interest at
taches, so as to release the right of dower, or fully convey
the particular estate, on receiving, from the proceeds of the
sale, a gross sum, in satisfaction of that interest, or a pro
portionate part of the proceeds, to be invested until the de
termination of the particular estate ; and, in either case, to
be ascertained as prescribed in the last section. Where a
proportion of the proceeds is so received by the guardian or
committee, for investment, the final order must provide
for the investment thereof, until the determination of the
particular estate ; and then for the payment thereof to the
person entitled thereto.
§ 2364. In the application of money, arising from a
sale, mortgage, or lease, made for the purpose of paying
debts, as prescribed in this title, the special guardian of the
infant, or the committee of the property of the incompetent
person, must pay all debts, in equal proportion, without
giving a preference to a debt founded upon a specialty, or
upon which judgment has been taken.
§ 2365. A submission of a controversy to arbitration
cannot be raade, either as prescribed in this title or other
wise, in either of the following cases :
1 Where one of the parties to the controversy is an in
fant, or a person incompetent to manage his affairs, by rea
son of lunacy, idiocy, or habitual drunkenness.
2. Where the controversy arises respecting a claim to an
estate in real property, in fee or for life.
But where a person, capable of entering into a submis
sion, has knowingly entered into the same with a person
incapable of so doing, as prescribed in subdivision first of
this section, the objection, on the ground of incapacity,
can be taken only in behalf of the person so incapacitated.
And the second subdivision of this section does not prevent
the submission of a claim to an estate for years, or other
interest for a term of years, or for one year or less, in real
property ; or of a controversy respecting the partition of
real property between joint tenants or tenants in common ;
or of a controversy respecting the boundaries of lands, or
the admeasurement of dower.
26 Hun, 447.
§ 2366. Except as otherwise prescribed in the last sec65 n.y. 242. tion, two or more persons may, by an instrument in writ
ing, duly acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like
manner as a deed to be recorded, submit, to the arbitration
of one or more arb'trators. any controyersy, existing be
tween them at the time of the submission, which might be
the subject of an action. They may, in the submission,
agree that a judgment of a court of record, specified in the
instrument, shall be rendered upon the award, made pur
suant to the submission. If the supreme court is thus
specified, the submission may also specify the county in
which the judgment shall be entered. If it does not, the
judgment may be entered in any county.
§ 2367. Where a submission is made as prescribed in
this title, an additional arbitrator or an umpire cannot be
selected or appointed, unless the submission expressly so
provides. Where a submission, made either as prescribed
in this title or otherwise, provides that two or more arbi
trators, therein designated, may select or appoint a person
as an additional arbitrator or as an umpire, Ihe selection or
appointment must be in writing. An additional arbitrator
or umpire must sit with the original arbitrators, upon the
hearing. If testimony has been taken before his selection
or appointment, the matter must be reheard, unless a re
hearing is waived in the submission, or by the subsequent
written consent of the parties, or their attorneys.
"\
§ 2368. Subject to the terms of the submission, if any
are specified therein, the arbitrators, selected as prescribed thereof xa lie ^rvwi a wa * samajority u£ ditao. w mioam tetime, upon int looiicaiioa. * tattr nirr
shown. or ip«in iuf.T 'nn ar.a
'u x,r. «t=vni. geuf
fixed in :3i« innmii»K>ri rr Ta.^rrr ~ L«r c>««r-u bo»
the time so ixca j -neaaaa 7 be wrnua x>aata> «i tat
parues w 'iie «nnnuaioa_ «~ S*ir iIT.-itb r-~^.
$ 2349- BfSEOK
gefeci»i •ijtius- 1* lrpapnr.rti a :..» ;-;be sworn, ay am nfiiar uzizr-13+ti n rr^um -?:>m pamam
mod forty-«WJi <rf in* k;-:. liiiut-^r- icu -»»rrr t> xar aa£
*"»"" die TI""—• 'M vmU'rvrrv w o c^ia * ~!»
award, ar.norriioe t> "he *K > ■ Lj^t ir-rw^ntri-f mie*
the oath, is w»v»i- iv Ti* wmas. rmnir ir tar aim -»
the iiihmitwnn. (JT -htZT ■tnm*T~%
? 23TSL Thi? lTTirratnTS. «*~»-t hitler at mi Tum" in
the atie, ir itiier"v->«. ir t aia^my if "nMn. 3Hfy -»*cuin»
any person, so mrail lisrart ~titm at t w-intaa- tuu. jfc<«
havi?. and earJi if "hrtn ja«. "be ame > 'v*zs>. w-iu mjikv
to all the prv'.wiinffl* T*£iim tu-ai. "vui:a. jr»j .-jni^rr^i.
by the pmvrs-inn* if "ftie »rjTnit if mauier una /c sij».
act, upon a rvwrrt. ir 1. aiemner if 1 warn. siEliiis^ti >_x
law to hear asamuinj
§ 2371. il "in* srtinnmr*. «a-^"-^£ in- Tr-scr-fowi; an at i***. «*V
this tfile. mnsc mesr "nesiier. uni 3nar at 'Utf iltjcai^irtis
and proofs nt ~uia juries . hie to. tfir: 07 » na^vcc^ vf
them » ¥i.Td. -miesa lie y.tnTTr^nie jf .LI :» «Airw8i>
required in "^lft «LinuwHi-.a. tTuts» 1 * .xj*r"rb?t» *i-_r«sso(
provided in ia»* aiftntHMnii. 3ie aw-trd Bttr r-vj^r* tm
payment, by eitaer P'tr?'. '-f tJ* artrrs: ;r*" fs^rtv at.1* «ccedinz the feral ai.,»»d t; a Lie a.^.—^«:r of iv;Vrw* ilk
the supresui txmr: ; and also '±tsz expecdts^
§ 237S. To ereinLe the award to be eaiorrod, a* pre
scribed in thii ii~-j?, it Brat be in wrina^ and. wiiaiu ihts
time limited in the <cimi-4-jo. if anv, subscribed br the
arbitrator- mikir.5 it ; acsx- -»-ie>ised or proved. hukI ivrtified, in like m ini^er as a deeii to be iwv>rvl<^ ; a«vi t-tiher
filed in the office of !he cierk of the court, in 'whk-b, by
the gubmL-sion, JTi-igment is aalhorixeil to be entmd upuM
the award, or delivered to one of the parties, or niaaiuvm^v.
§ 2373. At any time within one year after the awatd t»
made, as prescribed in the last section, any party to the
submission may apply to the court, s^fil'ied in the aubmission, for an order confirming the awitrd ; ami ttwiV'
upon the court must grant such an order, unless the awtml
is vacated, modified, or corrected, as prescribed In the next
two sections. Notice of the motion must bo served, upon
the adverse party to the submission, or his attorney, tta
prescribed by law for service of notice of a motion upon an attorney in an action in the same court. In the supreme
court, the motion must be made within the judicial district,
embracing the county where the judgment is to be entered.
§ 2374. In either of the following cases, the court,
specified in the submission, must make an order vacating
the award, upon the application of either party to the sub
mission :
1. "Where the award was procured by corruption, fraud,
or other undue means.
2. Where there was evident partiality or corruption iu
the arbitrators, or either of them.
8. Where the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct, in
refusing to postpone the hearing, upon sufficient cause
shown, or in refusing to hear evidence, pertinent and
material to the controversy ; or of any other misbehavior,
by which the rights of any party have been prejudiced.
4. Where the arbitrators exceeded their powers, or «o
imperfectly executed them, that a mutual, final, and defin
ite award, upon the subject matter submitted, was not
made.
"Where an award is vacated, and the time, within which
the submission requires the award to be made, has not ex
pired, the court may, in its discretion, direct a rehearing by
the arbitrators.
§ 2375. In either of the following cases, the court,
specified in the submission, must make an order modifying
or correcting the award, upon the application of either
party to the submission :
1. "Where there was an evident miscalculation of figures,
or an evident mistake in the description of any person,
thing, or property, referred to in the award
2. Where the arbitrators have awarded upon a matter
not submitted to them, not affecting the merits of the
decision upon the matters submitted.
3. Where the award is imperfect in a matter of form, not
affecting the merits of the controversy, and, if it had been
a referee's report, the defect could have been amended or
disregarded by the court.
The order may modify and correct the award, so as to
effect the intent thereof, and promote justice between the
parties.
§ 2376. Notice of a motion to vacate, modify, or cor
rect an award, must be served upon the adverse party to
the submission, or his attorney, within three months after
the award is filed or delivered, as prescribed by law for
service of notice of a motion upon an attorney in an action.
For the purposes of the motion, any judge, who might
make an order to stay the proceedings iu an action brought
in the same court, may make an order, to be served with
the notice of motion, staying the proceedings of the adverse
party to enforce the award.
§ 2377. Where the court vacates an award, costs, not exceeding Iwtaily-fr^f dohar* Hue" dwbtuwanente mar he
awarded to the prevaffinr i*-: > anc tue pai man tuerwif
may be enforced, in Kfc* maimer he the peymen: vi cotot
upon a motion in an actioTL
§ 2378. Upon the granting uf as order, eoubnun^.
modifying, or correctiiig as award, .iuanman mny be
entered in confonnny themrnL. at upia a rtit3*>t f report
in an action, except a# h otiterwiw tirehcxiUBC jl uac
title. Costs of the application, anc of tht proceedings
subsequent thereto, not exceeding Tveurr-£r« ooliai* and
disbursements, may be awardac! l>y the cuer.. u. nt dis
cretion. If awarded, the uuuuu nnav.i nros >t .uiajied
in the judgment.
§ 2379. Immediately after entente judgment, the clerk
must attach together and fk lie fo^^witg papers, which
constitute the judgment roll :
1. The submiasion ; the selection or appointment, if any,
of an additional arbitrator, or umpire; am eicii wriitea
extension of the time, if any, wixjuin which to make the
award.
2. The award.
3. Each notice, affidavit, or other paper, used upon an
application to confirm, modify, «r correct the award, and a
copy of each order of the court, upon such aa application.
4. A copy of the judgment
The judgment may be docketed, as if it was rendered in
an action.
§ 8380. The judgment so entered has the same force and
effect, in all respects, as, and is subject to all the provisions
of law relating to, a judgment in an action ; and it may be
enforced, as if it had been rendered in an action in the court
in which it is entered.
§ 8381. An appeal may be taken from an order vacat- 5 cir. Pro.
ing an award, or from a judgment entered upon an award, *T9.
as from an order or judgment in an action. The proceed
ings upon such an appeal, including the judgment there
upon, and the enforcement of the judgment, are governed
by the provisions of chapter twelfth of this act, as far as
they are applicable.
§ 2382. The death of a party to a submission, made
either as prescribed in this title or otherwise, or the appoint
ment of a committee of the person or property of such a
party, as prescribed in title sixth of this chapter, operates
as a revocation of the submission, if it occurs before tha
award is filed or delivered ; but not afterwards. Where
a party dies afterwards, if the submission contains a stipu
lation, authorizing the entry of a judgment upon the award,
the award may be confirmed, vacated, modified, or cor
rected, upon the application of, or upon notice to, his exe
cutor or administrator, or a temporary administrator of his
estate : or, where it relates to real property, his heir or do visee, who has succeeded to his interest in the real property.
Where a committee of the property, or of the person, of »
party, is appointed, after the award is filed or delivered, the
award may be confirmed, vacated, modified, or corrected,
upon the application of, or notice to, a committee of the prop
erty ; but not otherwise. In a case specified in this section.
a judge of the court may make an order, extending the time
within which notice of a motion to vacate, modify, or cor
rect the award, must be served. Upon confirming an
awaid, where a party has died since it was filed or delivered,
the court must enter judgment in the name of the original
party ; and the proceedings thereupon are the same, as
where a party dies after a verdict.
15 Ciy. Pro.
§ 2383. A submission to arbitration, made either asprel?»N Y 476 scribed in this title or otherwise, cannot be revoked by either
party, after the allegations and proofs of the parties have
been closed, and the matter finally submitted to the arbitra
tors for their decision. A revocation, when allowed, must
be made by an instrument in writing, signed by the revok
ing party, or his authorized agent, and delivered to the arbi
trators, or one of them ; and it is not necessary, in any case,
that the instrument of revocation should be under seal.
Any party to a submission. may thus revoke it ; whether he
is a sole party to the controversy, or one of two or more
parties on the same side.
§ 2384. Where a party expressly revokes a submission,
made either as prescribed in this title or otherwise, any
other party to the submission may maintain an action
against him, and also against his sureties, if any, upon the
submission, or any instrument collateral thereto, in which
action the plaintifff may recover all the costs and other ex
penses, and all the damages, which he has incurred in pre
paring for the arbitration, and in conducting the proceed
ings to the time of the revocation. Either of the arbitrators
may recover, in an action against the revoking party, his
reasonable fees and expenses.
§ 2385. A sum, penalty, forfeiture, or damages, shall
not be recovered for a revocation of a submission to arbitra
tion, made either as prescribed in this title or otherwise,
except as prescribed iu the last section ; notwithstanding
any stipulated damages, penalty, or forfeiture, expressed
in the submission, or in any instrument collateral thereto.
§ 2386. This title does not affect any right of action in
affirmance, disaffirmance, or for the modification of a sub
mission, made either as prescribed in this title or otherwise,
or upon an instrument collateral thereto, or upon an award
made or purporting to be made in pursuance thereof. And.
except as o herwise expressly prescribed therein, this, title
does not affect a submission, made otherwise than as pre
scribed therein, or any proceedings taken pursuant to such
a submission, or any instrument collateral thereto.
or a +m?ATj i- i*^^
in fir»".r *jc jj» T>auir
nii'ii Vili1
i Tie-, wipe- ja» i»» Tfor rexc-ia* iuikeiiss. jl ae
erty it BCiaoat.
gale, Er^st stt» ar.cc* 31 •ait f:0:-«-jij: -"*- -■"- ' -a; .V
properly, or • pir: taerw:#. t % •=>* »=>i j\i.~* sixv- -\v. x*
the notice:
1. AcwTrffeB-.iiecssNf pc^'i>h.\5. si Vast ««*o»>
in each of uk twefrre weeks. iauacdi&:tly pwvwhr£ ttv d,-v>
of sale, in a n<rw=psper pobiiijed in the county w lu-tviu
the property to be soid. or a part thereof, is situated,
2. A copy of the notice must be fastened up, »t Iwwl
eigbty-four days t>efore the day of sale, in a conspicuous
place" at or near the entrance of the building, whciv tln>
county court of each county, wherein the properly lo ho
sold i9 situated, is directed to" be held ; or, if there hiv t wit
or more such buildings in the same county, then in it like
place, at or near the entrance of the huiUluiK nemoMl 10 I he
property; or, in the city and county of New Voili, In
like place, at or near the entrance of the building, where
the court of common pleas for that city and county is di
rected by law to be held.
3. A copy of the notice must be delivered, at least eightyfour days before the day of sale, to the clerk of each county,
wherein the mortgaged property, or any part thereof, is
situated.
4. A copy of the notice must be served, as prescribed in
the next section, upon the mortgagor, or, if he is dead, upon
his executor or administrator. A copy of the notice may
also be served, in like manner, upon a subsequent grantee
or mortgagee of the property, whose conveyance was re
corded, in the proper office for recording it in the county,
at the time of the first publication of the notice of sale ;
upon the wife or widow of the mortgagor, and the wife or
widow of each subsequent grantee, whose conveyance was
so recorded, then having an inchoate or vested right of
dower, or an estate in dower, subordinate to the lien of the
mortgage ; or upon any person, then having a lien upon the
property, subsequent to the mortgage, by virtue of a judg
ment or decree, duly docketed in the county clerk's office
and constituting a specific or general lien upon the property.
The notice, specified in this section, must be subscribed
by the person entitled to execute the power of sale, unless
his name distinctly appears in the body of the notice, in
which case, it may be subscribed by his attorney or agent.
§ 2389. Service of notice of the sale, as prescribed in
subdivision fourth of the last section, must be made as
follows :
1. [Am'd 1887.] Upon the mortgagor, his wife, widow,
executor or administrator, or a subsequent grantee of che
property, whose conveyance is upon record, or his wife or
widow, by delivering a copy of the notice, as prescribed in
article first of title first of chapter fifth of this act, for de
livery of a copy of the summons in order to make personal
service thereof upon the person to be served, or by leaving
such a copy, addressed to the person to be served, at his
dwelling-house with a person of suitable age and discretion,
at least fourteen days before the day of sale. If said
mortgagor is a foreign corporation, or being a natural per
son, he, or his wife, widow, executor or administrator, or a
subsequent grantee of the property whose conveyance is
upon record, or his wife or widow, is not a resident of or
within the State, then service thereof may be made upon
them in like manner without the state, at least twenty-eight
days prior to the day of sale.
2. Upon any other person, either in the same method, or
by depositing a copy of the notice in the post-office, prop
erly enclosed in a post paid wrapper, directed to the person
to be served, at his place of residence, at least twenty-eight
days before the day of sale.
£2390. A county clerk, to whom a copy of a notice of sale is delivered, as prescribed in aabiUvtJuuttum of «he la*
section but one. must forthwith affix :: .n i imc a-m :»
na office for that purpose : must matte -ami iinKnm »
minute, at tlie bottom of he nor .f "he Tme »nen •*
received and affixed it : and most ~nnex he aotice -o he
name of the morgagor.
§ 2391. The notice of sale moat -ner-.fv
1. The names of the mortirairor. ,r lie norirucs*, u»i
of each assignee of the morraaee.
2. The date of the moiteage. mil he "ime T.-.en, uni
the place where, it is recorded.
a. The sum claimed to lie due -iron he -norm™- it he
time of the first publication of :he u.nr— ici. .1 ui> ?uw
secured by the mortgage is not hen liie. lie unouiu .c
become due therptipon.
*• -J- description of the moiTe3S'-<i w*^- .Tiniorming
substantially to that contained ;n Le .mor .^e.
5 2392. The sale may be postpone*!, from ime "o inie.
In thatcase, a noticeof fhep<«tt>onf-rm-nt miiM * _m 'lisiieu,
as soon as practicable therpaftf-r n he neT-pip^r n -Aajuu
the ori£rinal notice wan pniiii.-tif-'l . mil "tie .jmnicatioa >i
the original notice, and of •fich .nones of postponeiueut
mast be continued, .nt lerist mr-fs n each wses, iati^l Jj^
time to which the sale is Snail;' v.srponed.
. § 2393. The sale must be it pumic -Miction, in the <jav_ m Huu, k>?.
time, on a day other than -itiruiav or a puniic hoiiiiuv, '^
the county in which the mor .cured property, or a" ^y.,
thereof, is situated ; excent Etuit. -wnere rjje mortgage i» u.
the people of the Stale, the salts may oe maile at sut otpjrol
If the property consists of two or more ili.-vtiijei farui
tracu, or lots, they must be -KiM -tfsEarueiy : ami as m"^
only of the distinct farm*, tracw or lot*, snaii besoM ^f">
is necessary to sell, in order >o satisfy lie amount do.*; ai- thi!
time of the sale, and the costs ami expenses alio * ^ byu.
But where two or more buildings are situattd uo/u ]**
same city lot, and access ro one in obtained, through *£?
other, they must be sold together.
*a '•»
§ 2394. The morteaze* orh;s assignee, or the leim>
resentative of either, may, fairlv and in go^ f^fr1 ^P"
chase the mortgaged property, or any part thereof 1^'
sale
• "• the
§ 2395. [Amid 1889] A sale. made and condimt i
prescribed in this title, to a purchaser in eood f ?i! M
equivalent to a sale, pursuant to judgment in an aetL
is
foreclose a mortgage, so f:ir only as n> be an entire h '«
all claim or equity of redemption, upon, or with rZ
°*
the property sold, of each of the following r^Jr1**'' ,0

istrator'6 mXt^0r' "" ^ '''^ MW«^ <»»«m«v
2. Each person, claiming under any of thnm *. .
of a title, or of lien by judgment or A^^JjJ?'»
the mortgage, upon whom the notice of sale was served, as
prescribed in this title.
8. Each person so claiming, whose assignment, mort
gage, or other conveyance was not duly recorded in the
proper book for recording the same in the county, or whose
judgment or decree was not duly docketed in the county
clerk's office, at Ihe time of the delivery of a copy of the
notice of said sale to the clerk of the county ; and the
executor, administrator or assignee of such a person.
4. Every other person, claiming under a statutory lien
or encumbrance, created subsequent to the mortgage, attaching to the title or interest of any person, designated in
either of the foregoing subdivisions of this section.
5. The wife or widow of the mortgagor, or of a sub
sequent grantee, upon whom notice of the sale was served
as prescribed in this title, where the lien of the mortgage
was superior to her contingent or vested right of dower, or
her estate in dower.
§ 2396. An affidavit of the sale, stating the time when,
and the place where, the sale was made, the sum bid for
each distinct parcel, separately sold ; and the name of the
purchaser of each distinct parcel, may be made by the per
son, who officiated as auctioneer upon the sale. An affida
vit of the publication of the notice of sale, and of the no
tice or notices of postponement, if any, may be made by
the publisher or printer of the newspaper in which they
were published, or by the foreman or principal clerk. An
affidavit of the affixing of a copy of the notice, at or near
the entrance of the proper court house, may be made by
the person who so affixed it, or by any person who saw it
so affixed, at least eighty-four days before the day of sale.
An affidavit of the affixing of a copy of the notice in the
book, kept by the county clerk, may be made by the
county clerk, or by any person who saw "i so affixed, at
least eighty-four days before the day of sale. An affidavit
of the service of a copy of the notice upon the mortgagor,
or upon any other person, upon whom the notice must or
may be served, may be made by the person who made the
service. Where two or more distinct parcels are sold to
different purchasers, separate affidavits may be made with
respect to each parcel, or one set of affidavits may be made
for all the parcels.
§ 2397. [Am'd 1882.] The matters required to be con
tained in any or all of the affidavits specified in the last
section may be contained in one affidavit where the same
person deposes with respect to them. A printed copy
of the notice of sale must be annexed to each affidavit ;
and a printed copy of each notice of postponement must
be annexed to the affidavit of publication, and to the affi
davit of sale. But one copy of the notice suffices for
two or more affidavits, where they all refer to it, and
are annexed to each other, and filed and recorded together
§ 2398. The affidavits, specified in the last two sections,
may be filed in the office for recording deeds and mort
gages, in the county where the sale took place. They
must be recorded at length by the officer with whom they
are filed, in the proper book lor recording mortgages. The
original affidavits, so filed, the record thereof, ai.d a certi
fied copy of the record, are presumptive evidtjee of the
matters of fact therein stated, with respect to any property
told, which is situated in that county. Where the property
sold is situated in two or more counties, a copy of the affi
davits, certified by the officer with whom the originals are
riled, may be filed and recorded in each other county,
wherein any of the property is situated. Thereupon the
copy and the record thereof have the like effect, with re
spect to the property in that county, as if the originals were
duly filed and recorded therein.
§ 2399. A clerk or a register, who records any affida
vits, or a certified copy thereof, filed with him, must make
a note, upon the margin of the record of the mortgage, in
his office, referring to the book and page, or the copy
thereof, where the affidavits are recorded.
§ 2400. The purchaser of the mortgaged premises,
upon a sale conducted as prescribed in this title, obtains
title thereto, against all persons bound by the sale, without
the execution of a conveyance. F rcept where he is the
person authorized to execute the power of sale, such a pur
chaser also obti.iiis title, in like manner, upon payment of
the purchase-money, and compliance with the other terms
of sale, if any, without the filing and recording of the affi
davits as prescribed in the last section but one. But he is
not bound to pay the purchase-money, until the affidavits,
specified in that section, with respect to the property pur
chased by him, are filed, or delivered or tendered to him
for filing.
§ 2401. The following costs, in addition to the expenses
specified in the next section, are allowed, in proceedings
taken as prescribed in this title :
1. For drawing a notice of sale, a notice of postponement
of a sale, or an affidavit, made as prescribed in this title, for
each folio, twenty-five cents; for making each necessary
copy thereof, for each folio, thirteen cents.
2. For serving each copy of the notice of sale, required
or expressly permitted to be served by this title, and for
affixing each copy thereof, required to be affixed upon the
court-house, as prescribed in this title, one dollar.
3. For superintending the sale, and attending to the exe
cution of the necessary papers, ten dollars.
§ S402. The sums, actually paid for the following ser
vices not exceeding th fees allowed by law for those ser
vices, are allowed m proceedings, taken as prescribed in
this title .
1. For publishing the notice of sale, and the notice or notices of postponement, if any, for a period not exceeding
twenty-four weeks.
2. For the services specified in section two thousand
three hundred and ninety of this act.
3. For recording the affidavits ; and also, where the
property sold is situated in two or more counties, for
making and recording the necessary certified copies thereof.
4. For necessary postage, and searches.
§ 2403. The costs and expenses must be taxed, upon
notice, by the clerk of the county where the sale took place,
upon the request and at the expense of any person, in
terested in the payment thereof. Each provision of this act,
relating to the taxation of costs in the supreme court, and
the review thereof, applies to such a taxation.
§ 2404. An attorney or other person who receives any
money, arising upon a sale, made as prescribed in this title,
must, within ten days after he receives it, pay into the
supreme court the surplus, exceeding the sum due and to
become due upon the mortgage, and the costs and expenses
of the foreclosure, in like manner and with like effect, as if
the proceedings to foreclose the mortgage were taken in an
action, brought in the supreme court, and triable in the
county where the sale took place.
§ 2405. A person, who had, at the time of the sale, an
interest in or lien upon the property sold, or a part thereof,
may, at any time before an order is made, as prescribed in
the next section but one, file in the office of the clerk of the
county, where the sale took place, a petition, stating the
nature and extent of his claim, and praying for an order,
directing the payment to him of the surplus money, or a
part thereof.
§ 2406. A person filing a petition, as prescribed in the
last section, may, after the expiration of twenty days from
the day of sale, apply to the supreme court, at a term held
within the judicial district, embracing the county where his
petition is filed, for an order, pursuant to the prayer of his
petition. Notice of the application must be served, in the
manner prescribed in this act for the service of a paper
upon an attorney in an action, upon each person, who has
filed a like petition, at least eight days before the applica
tion ; and also upon each person, upon whom a notice of
sale was served, as shown in the affidavit of sale, or upon
his executor or administrator. But, if it is shown to the
court, by affidavit, that service upon any person, required
to be served, cannot be so made with due diligence, notice
may be given to him in any manner which the court
directs.
§ 2407. Upon the presentation of the petition, with due
proof of notice of application, the court must make an
order, referring it to a suitable person, to ascertain and re
port the amount due to the petitioner, and to each other person, which is a lien upon the surplus money ; and the
priorities of the several liens thereupon. Upon the coming
in and confirmation of the referee's report, the court must
make such an order for the distribution of the surplus
money, as justice requires.
§2408. The last four sections do not apply to surplus
money, arising upon the sale of real property, of which a
decedent died seized, where letters testamentary or letters
of administration, upon the decedent's estate, were, within
four years before the sale, issued from a surrogate's court
within the State, having jurisdiction to issue them.
§ 8409. [Am'd 1882.] This title does not affect any
provision of law, inconsistent therewith, especially relating
to the foreclosure of mortgages to the people of the State,
or to the commissioners for loaning certain monies of the
United States.
§ 2410. \Am'd 1887.] A person of full age, residing $ use, con
within the State, may apply to the county court of the sol. Act.
county in which he resides ; or, if he resides in the city of
New York, to the court of common pleas for that city and
county, or to the city court of New York, for leave to as
sume another name.
§ 241 1. Where the applicant resides in the city of Buf
falo, the application may be made, either to the county
court of Erie county, or to the superior court of Buffalo.
Where he resides in Brooklyn, it may be made, either to
the county court of Kings county, or to the city court of
Brooklyn.
§ 2412. The application must be made by a written
petition, which must be signed by the petitioner ; must spe
cify the name which he propose to assume ; must state the
grounds of the application ; and must be verified, in like
manner as a verified pleading, in an action in the supreme
court.
§ 2413. If the court, to which the petition is presented, is
satisfied thereby, or by proof, by affidavit, presented there
with, that there is no reasonable objection to the petitioner's
assuming the name proposed, it must make an order au
thorizing the petitioner to assume that name, on a day
specified therein, not less than thirty days after the entry of
the order, upon his complying with the provisions of the
next section but one.
§ 2414. An infant may also apply, by his general guar
dian, or the guardian of his person, or by his next friend,
for leave to assume another name. Where he applies by
his next friend, notice of the time when, and the place
where, the petition will be presented, must be served, as
prescribed in this act for the service of a paper upon an at
torney in an action, upon the father ; or, if he is dead,
upon the mother ; or, if both are dead, upon the general
guardian of the infant, or the guardian of his person. But
where it appears, by proof, to the satisfaction of the court,
that the infant has no father or mother, or that both reside
without the State, and that he has no guardian, residing
within the State, the court may dispense with notice, or
require notice to be given to such persons, and in such a
manner, as it thinks proper. Upon the hearing, the court
must, in addition to the matters specified in the last section,
be satisfied by the proofs, that the interests of the infant
will be substantially promoted by the change of his name.
Except as otherwise prescribed in this section, the provi
sions of this title, relating to an application by a person of
full age, apply to an application by an infant.
§ 2415. Within ten days after the order is made, the
petitioner must cause a copy thereof to be published in a
newspaper published in the county in which the order was
made ; and, within twenty days after the making of the
order, he must cause the papers upon which it was granted,
and an affidavit of the publication thereof, to be filed and
recorded as prescribed in this section. Where the order
was made in any county except New York, the papers
must be filed and recorded in the county clerk's office.
When the order was made by the court of common pleas
for the city and county of New York, or the city court of
New York, they must he filed and recorded in the office of
the clerk of that court.
§ 24 16. If the requirements of the last section are com
plied with, the petitioner must, on and after the day speci
fied for that purpose in the order, be known by the name,
which he is thereby authorized to assume ; and by no other
name.
§ 2417. An action or special proceeding, civil or crimi
nal, theretofore or thereafter commenced against a person,
whose name is changed as prescribed in this title, shall not
abate, nor shall any relief, recovery, or other proceeding
therein, be prevented, impeded, or impaired, in consequence
of the change of name. The plaintifff in the action, or the
party instituting the special proceeding, or the people as the
case requires, may, at any time, obtain an order, amending
any of the papers or proceedings therein, by the substitu
tion of the new name, without costs, and without prejudice
to the paper or proceeding.
§ 1167 con§ 2418. [Am'd 1887.] The clerk of each county, exol. Act.
cept the county of New York, and the clerk of the court of common pleas for the city and county of New York, and
the city court of New York, must annually, in the month
of December, make a return to the Secretary of State of all
the changes of names of persons which have been made
within his county since his last return, as prescribed in this
title. The Secretary of State must cause to be published,
from those returns, in the next volume of the Session Laws,
a tabular statement showing the original name of each per
son, and the name which he has been authorized to assume.
§ 2419. If a majority of the directors, trustees, or other 29 Hun, 429.
officers, having the management of the concerns of a cor- ** *£*>■ Nporation created by or under the laws of the State, discover
that the stock, effects, and other property thereof are not
sufficient to pay all just demands, for which it is liable, or
to afford a reasonable security to those who may deal with
it ; or if, for any reason, they deem it beneficial to thgjnterest of the stockholders, that the corporation should be
dissolved ; they may present a petition, to the supreme
court, or to a superior city court of the city where the*principal office of the corporation is located, praying for a final
order dissolving the corporation, as prescribed in this title.
§ 2420. If a corporation, created under a general stat
ute of the State for the formation of corporations, has an
even number of trustees or directors, who are equally di
vided, respecting the management of its affairs, and the
entire stock of the corporation is, at that time, owned by
the trustees, or directors, or is so divided, that one half
thereof is owned or controlled by persons favoring the
course of one half of the trustees or directors, and one half
by persons favoring the course of the other half of them,
the trustees or directors, or one or more of them, may pre
sent a petition as prescribed in the last section. But this
section does not apply to a savings bank, a trust company,
a safe deposit company, or a corporation formed to rent
safes in burglar and fire-proof vaults, or for the construc
tion or operation of a railroad, or for aiding in the con
struction thereof, or for carrying on the business of bank
ing or insurance, or intended to derive a profit from the
loan or use of money.
§ 2421. The petition must show that the case is one of
those specified in the last two sections, and must state the
reasons, which induce the petitioner or petitioners to desire
the dissolution of the corporation. A schedule must be
annexed to the petition, containing the following matters,
as far as the petitioner or petitioners know, or have the
means of knowing Ihe same :
1. A full and true account of all the creditors of the
corporation, and of all unsatisfied engagements, entered
.into by, and subsisting against, the corporation.
2. A statement of the name and place of residence of
each creditor, and of each person with whom such an
engagement was made, and to whom it is to be performed,
if known ; or, if either is not knewn, a statement of that
fact.
3. A statement of the sum owing to each creditor, or
other person specified in the last subdivision, and the nature
of each debt, demand, or other engagement.
4. A statement of the true cause and consideration of
the indebtedness to each creditor.
5. A full, just, and true inventory of all the property of
the corporation, and of all the books, vouchers, and
securities, relating thereto.
6. A statement of each encumbrance upon the property
of the corporation, by judgment, mortgage, pledge, or
otherwise.
7. A full, just, and true account of the capital stock of
the corporation, specifying the name of each stockholder ;
his residence, if it is known, or if it is not known, stating that
fact ; the number of shares belonging to him ; the amount
paid in upon his shares ; and the amount still due there
upon*
§ 2422. An affidavit, made by each of the petitioners,
to the effect that the matters of fact, stated in the
petition and the schedule, are just and true, so far as the
affiant knows or has the means of knowing the same, must
be annexed to the petition and schedule.
§ 2423. [Am'd 1889.] Where the petition is addressed
to the supreme court, the papers must be presented at a
term of that court, held within the judicial district, em
bracing the county wherein the principal office of the cor
poration is located. In a case specified in section two
thousand four hundred and twenty of this act, the court
may, in its discretion, entertain or dismiss the application.
Where it «»tartains the application, or where the case is one
of those specified in section two thousand four hundred and
nineteen of this act, the court must make an order, requir
ing all persons interested in the corporation to show cause
before it, or before a referee designated in the order, at a
time and place therein specified, not less than three months
after the granting of the order, why the corporation should
not be dissolved. The order must be entered, and the papere must be filed, within ten days after the order is
made, with the clerk of the court, or, in the supreme
court, with the clerk of the county where the principal
office of the corporation is located. If it shall be made to
appear to the satisfaction of the court that the corporation
is insolvent, the court may at any stage of the proceeding
before final order, on motion of the petitioners on notice
to the Attorney-General, or on motion of the AttorneyGeneral on notice to the corporation, appoint a tem
porary receiver of the property of the corpora
tion, which receiver shall have all the powers and be sub
ject to all the duties that are defined as belonging to tem
porary receivers appointed in an action, in section one
thousand seven hundred and eighty-eight of this act. The
court may also, in its discretion, at any stage in the pro
ceeding after such appointment upon like motion and
notice, confer upon such temporary receiver the powers
and authority, and subject him to the dutiss and liabilities
of a permanent receiver, or as much thereof as it thinks
proper, except that he shall not make any final distribution
among the creditors and stockholders, before final order in
the proceedings, unless he is specially directed so to do by
the court. If such receiver be appointed, the court may,
in its discretion, on like motion and notice, with or without
security, at any stage of the proceeding before the final
order grant an injunction, restraining the creditors of the
corporation from bringing any action against the said cor
poration for the recovery of a sum of money, or from
taking any further proceedings in such an action thereto
fore commenced. Such injunction shall have the same
effect and be subject to the same provisions of law as if
each creditor upon whom it be served was named therein.
§ 2424. A copy of the order must be published, as pre
scribed therein, at least once in each of the three weeks
immediately preceding the time fixed therein for showing
cause, in the newspaper printed at Albany, in which legal
notices are required to be published ; and also in one or
more newspapers, specified in the order, published in the
city or county wherein the order is entered.
§ 2425. A copy of the order must also be served upon 4 Month. L.
each of the persons, specified in the schedule as a creditor Bui. 64.
or stockholder of the corporation, or as a person to whom
an engagement of the corporation is to be performed, other
than a person whose residence is stated to be unknown, or
to be without the United States. The service must be made,
either personally, at least twenty days before the time
appointed for the hearing ; or by depositing a copy of the
order, at least forty days before the time so appointed, in
the post-office, inclosed in a postpaid wrapper, addressed to
the person to be served, at his residence, as stated in the
schedule.
§ 2426. At the time and place specified in the order, or
at the time and place to which the hearing is adjourned,
the court, or the referee, must hear the allegations and
proofs of the parties, and determine the facts. If a referee
was not designated in the order to show cause, the court
may, in its discretion, appoint a referee when or after me
order is returnable. The decision of the court, or the
report of the referee, must be m writing, and must be
made and filed with all convenient speed. It must con
tain a statement of the effects, credits, and other property,
and of the debts and other engagements, of the corpora
tion, and of all other matters, pertaining to its affairs.
§ 2427. The court or the referee is entitled to use, upon
the hearing, the original petition, and the schedules an
nexed thereto ; and the clerk must transmit them accord
ingly, upon the written order of the judge, or of the referee.
In that case, they must be returned with the decision or
report.
§ 2428. Where the hearing is before a referee, a motion
for a final order must be made to the court, upon notice to
each person who has made himself a party to the proceed
ings, by filing with the clerk, before the close of the hear
ing, a notice of his appearance, in person or by attorney,
specifying a post-office within the State, where such a
notice may be served. The notice may be served as pre
scribed in this act, for the service of a paper upon an
attorney in an action. Where the hearing wa-s before the
court, a motion for a final order may be made immediately,
or at such a time and upon such a notice, as the court pre
scribes.
§ 2429. Upon an application for a final order, if it apPears t° the court, in a case specified in section two thousand four hundred and nineteen of this act, that the corporation is insolvent, or, in a case specified either in that
section, or in section two thousand four hundred and twenty
°f *n's act> tnat- f°r any reas°n, a dissolution of the cor
poration will be beneficial to the interests of the stock
holders, and not injurious to the public interests, the court
must make a final order, dissolving the corporation, and
appointing one or more receivers of its property. Upon the
entry of the order, the corporation is dissolved. The court
may, in its discretion, appoint a director, trustee, or other
officer, or a stockholder of the corporation, a receiver of its
property.
§ 2430. A sale, assignment, mortgage, conveyance, or
other transfer, of any property of a corporation, made after
the filing of a petition as prescribed in this title, in payment
of, or as security for, an existing or prior debt, or for any
other consideration ; or a judgment thereafter rendered
against the corporation by confession, or upon the accept
ance of an offer, is absolutely void, as against the receiver appointed in the special proceeding, and as against the
creditors of the corporation.
§ 2431 . [Arn'd 1884,] This title does not apply to an in
corporated library society, to a religious corporation, or to
a select school or academy incorporated by the regents of
the university, or by the legislature, or to a municipal or
other political corporation. In the case of corporations
affected by the provisions of this title and not having
stockholders, it shall be sufficient for the purposes of this
title to notify, name and refer to the " members " of such
corporations instead of "stockholders " as herein provided.
§ 2441. Upon proof, by affidavit, or other competent
written evidence, to the satisfaction of the judge, that an
execution against property has been issued, as prescribed
in section two thousand four hundred and fifty-eight of
this act, and either that it has been returned wholly or
partly unsatisfied, or that it has not been returned; and
also that any person or corporation has personal property
of the judgment debtor, exceeding ten dollars in value, or
is indebted to him in a sum exceeding ten dollars ; the
judgment creditor is entitled to an order, requiring that
person or corporation to attend and be examined concern
ing the debt, or other property, at a time and place specified
in the order. The judge may, in his discretion, requianotice of the subsequent proceedings to be given to the
indgment debtor, in such a manner as he deems just.
But a receiver shall not be appointed without such a
notice ; except as otherwise prescribed in article second of
this title.
§ 2442. An order, requiring a person to attend and be
examined, made pursuant to any provision of this article,
must require him so to attend and be examined, either l>efore the judge to whom the order is returnable, or before a
referee designated therein. Where the examination is taken
before a referee, lie must certify, to the judge to whom the
order is returnable, all the evidence and the other proceed
ings taken before him.
§ 2443. At any stage of the proceedings, the judge to
whom the order is returnable may, in his discretion, make
an order, directing that any other examination, or testi
mouy, be taken by, or that a question arising be referred to.
a referee, designated in the order. Where a question is sii
referred, the referee may be directed to report either the
evidence or the facts.
§ 2444. Upon an examination under this article, ear!
answer of a party or witness examined must be under oath I
A corporation must attend by. and answer under the oalti
of, an officer thereof ; and the judge may, in his discretinn
specify the officer. Either party may be examined as'
witness, in his own behalf, and may produce and exam'.
pther witnesses, as upon the trial of an action. The.-" or referee may adjourn any proceedings, under this article,
from time to time, as he thinks proper.
§ 2445. Unless the parties expressly -waive the referee's
oath, a referee, appointed as prescribed in this article, must,
before entering upon an examination, or taking testimony,
subscribe and take an oath, that be will faithfully and fairly
discharge bis duty upon the reference, and make a just and.
true report, according to the best of his understanding.
The oath may be administered by an officer designated in
section eight hundred and forty-two of this act, and must
be returned to the judge, with the report or testimony.
§ 2446. At any time after the commencement of a spe
cial proceeding, authorized by this article, and before the
appointment of a receiver therein, or the extension of a re
ceivership thereto, the judge, by whom the order or warrant
was granted, or to whom it is returnable, may, in bis dis
cretion, upon proof, by affidavit, to his satisfaction, that a
person or corporation is indebted to the judgment debtor, .
and upon such a notice, given to such persons, as he deems
just, or without notice, make an order, permitting the per
son or corporation, to pay to a sheriff, designated in the
order, a sum, on account of the alleged indebtedness, not
exceeding the sum which will satisfy the execution. A
payment thus made is, to the extent thereof, a discharge of
the indebtedness, except as against a transferee from the
judgment debtor, in good faith and for a valuable consid
eration, of whose rights the person or corporation had actual
or constructive notice, when the payment was made.
§2447. Where it appears, from the examination or
testimony, taken in a special proceeding authorized by this
aiticle, that the judgment debtor has, in his possession or
under his control, money or other personal property, belonging to him ; or that one or more articles of personal
property, capable of delivery, his right to the possession
whereof is not substantially disputed, are in the possession
or under the control of another person ; the judge, by whom
the order or warrant was granted, or to whom it is return
able, may, in his discretion, and upon such a notice, given
to such persons, as he deems just, or without notice, make
an order, directing the judgment debtor, or other person,
immediately to pay the money, or deliver the articles of
personal property, to a sheriff, designated in the order, un
less a receiver has been appointed, or a receivership has
been extended to the special proceeding, and in that case to
the receiver.
§ 2448. If the sheriff, to whom money is paid, or
other property is delivered, pursuant to an order made as
prescribed in either of the last two sections, does not then
hold an execution upon the judgment against the property
of the judgment debtor, he has the same rights and powers,
and is subject to the same duties and liabilities, with respec; to the money or property, as if the money had been collected, or the property had been levied upon by him, by
virtue of such an execution ; except as otherwise prescribeil
in the next section.
1 n»w._ Pr.
§ 2449. After a receiver has been appointed, or a reN. s. 371.
reivership has been extended to the special proceeding, the
judge must, by order, direct the sheriff to pay the money
or the proceeds of the property, deducting his fees, to the
receiver ; or, if the case so requires, to deliver to the receiver
the property in his hands. But if it appears, to the
satisfaction of the judge that an order, appointing a re
ceiver or extending a receivership, is not necessary, he may,
by an order reciting that fact, direct the sheriff to apply
the money so paid, or the proceeds of the property so deliv
ered, upon an execution in favor of the judgment creditor,
issued either before or after the payment or delivery to the
sheriff.
§ 2450. Where money is paid, or property delivered, as
prescribed in the last four sections, and afterwards the
special proceeding is discontinued or dismissed : or the
judgment is satisfied, without resorting to that money or
property ; or a balance of the money, or of the proceeds of
the property, or a part of the property, remains in the
sheriff's or the receiver's hands, after satisfying the judg
ment, and the costs and expenses of the special proceed
ings ; the judge must make an order, directing the sheriff
or receiver to pay the money, or deliver the property, so
remaining in his hands, to the judgment debtor, or to such
other person as appears to be entitled thereto, upon pay
ment of his fees, and all other sums legally chargeable
against the same.
§ 2451. The judge by whom the order or warrant was
granted or to whom it is returnable, may make an injunc
tion order, restraining any person or corporation, whether
a party or not a party to the special proceedings, from mak
ing or suffering any transfer or other disposition of, or in
terference with, the property of the judgment debtor, or
the property or debt, concerning which any person is
required to attend and be examined, until furthei direction
in the premises. Such an injunction order may be made
simultaneously with the order or warrant, by which the
special proceeding is instituted, and upon the same papers ;
or afterwards, upon an affidavit, showing sufficient grounds
therefore. The judge or the court may, as a condition of
granting an application to vacate or modify the injunction
order require the applicant to give security, in such a sum
and in such a manner, as justice requires.
§ 2452. An injunction order, or an order requiring a
person to attend and be examined, made as prescribed in
this article, must be served as follows :
1. The original order, under the hand of the judge mak
ing it, must be exhibited to the person to be served. 
2. A copy thereof, and of the affidavit upon which it was
made, must be delivered to him.
Service upon a corporation is sufficient, if made upon an
officer, to whom a copy of a summons must be delivered,
where a summons is personally served upon the corpora
tion; unless the officer is specially designated by I ho judgo,
as prescribed in section two thousand four hundred anil
forty-four of this act.
§ 2453. The sheriff, when he arrests a judgment debtor
by virtue of a warrant, issued as prescribed in this article,
must deliver to him a copy of the warrant, and of the nil)
davit upon which it was granted.
§ 2454. A special proceeding, instituted as prescribed In
this article, may be discontinued at imy time, upon mich
terms as justice requires, by an order of the Judge, tmido
upon the application of the judgment creditor where the
judgment creditor unreasonably neglects or delay* to pro
ceed, or where it appears that bis judgment ban ihwii Mitlufied, his proceedings may l>e dismissed, upon like term*, by
a like order, made upon the application of tint judgment
debtor, or of the plaintifff in a judgment creditor** action
against the debtor, or of a judgment creditor who bit* In
stituted eitherof the special proceeding*, authorl/wl by tbf<*
article. Where an order appointing a rwfiv*r, or ';%U*u\
ing a receiverehip, has been mad*, in the «**<»■** o* IUh
special proceeding notkx: of the application tor tan or'Uir
specified in toisw**j<yH, uiuti it: wwii, in tnu.U a itmtw.t »*
the judg* dfceuttpnvjvcx. Ui nil \/"tt/m* iu**'.i'*,\*il in Un- r",
ceiverslup, as ten a* Uk-y cjwj *;m .<r',;<'>/jj \/*, nts*'i\»,i.'4,
§ 245S. To* Judjr*1 mar amir.*; *'j '»>t<T, «'^*ti y *t> »*«■•
judgment creditor a X'tJty >.•.>•-.. -a* </M-- >>*»«>« -i y tft h<>
witness**' fee* aud uluw Oi'.'.i..".'-*^-^, wjC. '/J »>.■.<>., <ai
addition tliereto. U'A »-,v>»:C'..!-/ i.v«* <>.>.', tut i,;iv v.**/"*.
ing the lasraieul tuerv.i! ■o-.<t vt in-v «,v.4-y i»v>». »«a«
come, or mar come. u> tin- itttu'> vl <;ut- i«i«,i-i>«-h '* <^ M.t;
sheriff; or, wiluui » luue *i^.<id<i.<. it ';«»• vi •'..!>) v.v '••'
judgment debu>r, or utuei j/i;'.«v> >./,.. uuc >cuvtt .t.i *>;/*,<. .<J
prooeodujg it. ituiUiuieti.
? 24&*. JTl««i tut- .itit'^.iuftii' <icuA/' «< 'I'-LiK ;<i.</.«'t/
against vii'jtu tu»; »j<«<:m. j«t/>.i.->.-<ui.f ■.- uiiii'.u.i,i i..u m.- «j
eiainined. uuti )itoj*rr' > <at>)iin .io«< ;t -.m )«i;«,ui o* .i.t
judgment, uai- uo: o>;ei <L.->.(. •.;...< .> tut m.....* <»* ti«i
Special pi'OOe'.-UlllJ/ tin .|U<iJ;l Oui- n.-l-.l ... »«<,., ,ll..ir'M.f>
km t lite auui ,«- u<u .int. <t ii-.irii. .c -.i«> p.i. h.i.ii 'i>ui.
o£, vjfchui a tirue -•peciii-.-i. o ti«. t*i...
..,- ;!»■ .|.,'.^un!iit
Creditor; or «-.v>:|> Wmrii l t-- ill./.. I .i t.-' |.<(.,-..ii«:ol
debtor., out ol aii« «</o. . v',i,..i ..,> ■.... u' •./-..• wi« ,
tO lilf ilttllUft Ifl i- >V'Jif»< l>' •* Iu>. *>.'ll
5 S4*». /•. i»uiK/i *»ii.. i-l.io^ v •■•K., ;••' *,in^J».-ot .iiX
of this article, and duly served upon him, or an oral direction,
given directly to him by a judge or referee. in the course of
the special proceeding; ; or to attend before a judge or
referee, at cording to the command of a subpoena, "duly
served upon him : may be punished by the judge, or by
the court out of which the execution was issued, as for a
contempt.
;''Huw. Pt
§ 2458. [A'md 1881.] In order to entitle a judgment
i"t-iv _^ creditor to maintain either of the special proceedings, auto. '
thorized by this article, the judgment must have been ren» id. 4a
dered upon the judgment debtor's appearance, or personal
service of the summons upon him, for a sum not less than
twenty-five dollars, and the execution must have been issued
out of a court of record ; and, either,
1. To the sheriff of the county where the judgment
debtor has, at the time of the commencement of the special
eroceeding, a place for the regular transaction of business
i person ; or,
2. If the judgment debtor is then a resident of the State,
to the sheriff of the county where he resides : or,
3. If he is not then a resident of the State, to the sheriff
of the county where the judgment-roll is filed ; unless the
execution was issued out of a court, other than that in
which the judgment was rendered, and, in that case, to the
sheriff of the county where the transcript of the judgment
is filed.
8 2459. If the iudgment debtor, or other person, re
quired to attend and be examined, as prescribed in this arti
cle, or the officer of a corporation, required to attend in its
behalf, is, at the time of the service of the order upon
him, a resident of the State, or then has an office, within the
State, for the regular transaction of business in person, he
cannot be compelled to attend, pursuant to the order, or to
any adjournment, at a place without the county wherein
bis residence or place of business is situated.
§ S460. [Am'd 1881.] A party or a witness, examined
in a special proceeding, authorized by this article, is not ex
cused from answering a question, on the ground that his
examination will tend to convict him of the commission of
a fraud ; or to prove that he has been a party or privy to,
or knowing of, a conveyance, assignment, transfer or other
disposition of property for any purpose ; or that he or
another person claims to be entitled as against the judgment
creditor, or a receiver appointed or to be appointed in the
special proceeding, to hold property, derived from or
through the judgment debtor, or to be discharged from the
payment of a debt which was due to the judgment debtor,
or to a person in his behalf. But an answer cannot be used
as evidence against the person so answering, in a criminal
"X
action or criminal proceeding.
§2461. Where the execution was issued as prescribed in section one thousand nine hundred and forty-one of this
act, a debt due to, or other personal property owned by,
one or more of the defendants not summoned, jointly with
the defendants summoned, or with any of them, may be
reached by a special proceeding, instituted as prescribed in
this article, and founded upon the judgment.
§ 2462. Sections twenty-six, fifty-two, and two hundred
and seventy-nine of this act apply to a special proceeding,
instituted as prescribed in this article; and the judge before
whom it is continued, as prescribed in either of those sec
tions, is deemed to be the judge to whom an order or war
rant is returnable, for the purpose of any provision of this
or the next article.
§2463. [Am'd 1886.] This article does not apply where kun.y.79.
the judgment debtor is a corporation created by or under
the laws of the State, or a foreign corporation specified in
section one thousand eight hundred and twelve of this act,
except in those actions or special proceedings brought by
or against the people of the State. Nor does it authorize
the seizure of, or other interferences with, any property
which is especially exempt by law from levy and sale by
virtue of an execution ; or any money, thing in action, or
other property held in trust for a judgment debtor, where
the trust has been created by, or tli3 fund so held in trust
has proceeded from, a person other than the judgment
debtor ; or the earnings of the judgment debtor for his per
sonal services rendered within sixty days next before the
institution of the special proceeding ; when it is made to
appear by his oath or otherwise that those earnings are nec
essary for the use of a family, wholly or partly supported
by his labor.
§ 2464. At any time after making nn order, requiring 54 xbl>. N.
the judgment debtor, or any other person, to attend and be C. 332.
examined, or issuing a warrant, as prescribed in article
tirst of this title, the judge to whom the order or warrant is
returnable may make an order, appointing a receiver of the
property of the judgment debtor. At least two days'
notice of the application for the order appointing a receiver,
must be given personally to the judgment debtor, unless
the judge is satisfied that he cannot, with reasonable dili
gence, be found within the State ; in which case, the order must recite that fact, and may dispense with notice, or may
direct notice to be given in any manner which the judge
thinks proper. But where the order to attend and be
examined, or the warrant, lias been served upon the judg
ment debtor, a receiver may be appointed upon the return
day thereof, or at the close of the examination, without
further notice to him.
£ 2465. The judge must ascertain' if practicable, by
the oath of the judgment debtor, or otherwise, whether an
action, specified in article first of title fourth of chapter
fifleenlh of this act, or a special proceeding instituted as
prescribed in article first of this title, is pending against the
judgment debtor. If either is pending, and a receiver has
not been appointed therein, notice of the application for
the appointment of a receiver, and of all the subsequent
proceedings respecting the receivership, must be given, in
such a manner as the judge directs, to the judgment creditor
prosecuting it.
fc- 2466. Only one receiver of the property of a judgment
debtor shall be appointed. Where a receiver thereof has
already been appointed, the judge, instead of making the
order prescribed in the last section but one, must make an
order, extending the receivership to the special proceeding
before him. Such an order gives to the judgment creditor
the same rights, as if a receiver was then appointed upon
his application ; including the right to apply to thetourt to
control, direct, or remove the receiver, or to subordinate
the proceedings in or by which the receiver was appointed,
to those taken under his judgment.
£ 2467. An order appointing a receiver, or extending a
receivership, must be filed in the office of the clerk of the
county, wherein the judgment-roll in the action is filed ; or,
if the special proceeding is founded upon an execution
issued out of a court, other than that in which the judg
ment was rendered, in the office of the clerk of the county,
wherein the transcript of the judgment is filed.
g 2468. The property of the judgment debtor is vested
in a receiver, who has duly qualified, from the time of
filing the order appointing hin;} or extending his receiver
ship, as the case may be ; subject to the following excep
tions :
1. Real property is vested in the receiver, only from the
time when the order, or a certified copy thereof, as the
cast! may be, is filed with the clerk of the county where it
is situated.
2. Where the judgment debtor, at the time when the
Older is filed, resides in another county of the State, his
personal property is vested in the receiver, only from the
time when a copy of the order, certified by the clerk in
whose office it is recorded, is filed with the clerk of the
county where he resides.
^ 2469. Whore the receiver's title to personal property has become vested, as proscribed in the last section, it
also extends back, by relation, for the benefit of the judg
ment creditor, in whose behalf the special proceeding was
instituted, as follows :
1. Where an order, requiring the judgment debtor to
attend and be examined, or a warrant, requiring the sheriff
to arrest him and bring him before the judge, has been
served, before the appointment of the receiver, or the ex
tension of the receivership, the receiver's title extends back,
so as to include the personal property of the judgment
debtor, at the time of the service of the order or warrant.
2. Where an order or warrant has not been served, as
specified in the foregoing subdivision, but an order has
been made, requiring a person to attend and be examined,
concerning property belonging, or a debt due, to the judg
ment debtor, the receiver's title extends to personal prop
erty, belonging to the judgment debtor, which was in the
hands, or under the control, of the person or corporation
thus required to attend, at the time of the service of the
order ; and to a debt then due to him from that person or
corporation.
3. In every other case, where notice of the application
for the appointment of the receiver was given to the judg
ment debtor, the receiver's title extends to the personal
property of the judgment debtor, at the time when the
notice was served, either personally, or by complying with
the requirements of an order, prescribing a substitute for
personal service.
4. Where the case is within two or more of the forego
ing subdivisions of this section, the rule most favorable to
the judgment creditor must be adopted.
But this section does not affect the title of a purchaser in
good faith, without notice, and for a valuable considera
tion ; or the payment of a debt in good faith, and without
notice.
§ 2470. Each county clerk must keep in his office a
book, indexed to the names of the judgment debtors, styled
"book of orders appointing receivers of judgment debt
ors." A county clerk, in whose office an order or a certi
fied copy of an order is filed, as prescribed in section two
thousand four hundred and sixty-seven or section two
thousand four hundred and sixty-eight of this act, must
immediately note thereupon the time of filing it, and, as
soon as practicable, must record it, in the book so kept by
him. He must also, upon request, furnish forthwith to
any party or person interested, one or more certified copies
thereof. For each omission to comply with any provision
of this section, a county clerk forfeits, to the party ag
grieved, two hundred and fifty dollars, in addition to all
damages sustained by reason of the omission.
§ 2471. A receiver, appointed as prescribed in tin's
article, is subject to the direction and control of the court out of which the execution was issued. Where an order
has been made, extending a receivership to a special pro
ceeding founded upon a subsequent judgment, the control
over, and direction of, the receiver, with respect to that
judgment, remain in the court to whose control and dircc
tion he was originally subject.
§ 2472. Each surrogate must hold, within his county.
a court, which has, in addition to the powers conferred
upon it, or upon the surrogate, by special provision of law,
jurisdiction, as follows :
1. To take the proof of wills ; to admit wills to probate ;
to revoke the probate thereof ; and to take and revoke probate of heirship.
2. To grant and revoke letters testamentary and letters
of administration, and to appoint a successor in place of u
person whose letters have been revoked.
3. To direct and control the conduct, and settle the ncc >unts, of executors, administrators, and testamentary
tiiistees ; to remove testamentary trustees, and to appoint
a successor in place of a testamentary trustee so removed.
4. To enforce the payment of debts and legacies ; tlio
distribution of the estates of decedents ; and the payment
or delivery, by executors, administtators, and testamen
tary trustees, of money or other property in their posses
sion, belonging to the estate.
5. To direct the disposition of real property, and interest*
in real property, of decedents, for the payment of their
debts and funeral expenses, and the di*|>o*ition of the pro
ceeds thereof.
6. To administer justice, in all matter* relating to the
affairs of decedents, according to the provision* of tin:
statutes relating thereto.
7. To appoint and remove guardians for infant* ; U>
compel the payment and delivery by them of uunf-y </r
other property belonging to their ward* ; tu>A, in tiie <■**<*
specially prescribed by law, to direc-t and control their oouduct, and settle their account*.
This jurisdiction must be exercised j« tJj.*r oa*e«, and bj
the manner, prescribed by statute.
§ 2473. Where the jurisdiction of a surrogate's court
to make, in a case specified in the la.-.t i**%v>\:. a docrtie or
other determination . is drawn iu <jU"-«t,iou collaterally, and
the necessary parties wire duly i-iu.d or apinaied, the
jurisdiction k presumptively, uud . in the tWi«-</l fraud
or c illusion, conclusive! \ , enUiljlisln/J. by an alii ■yv'.t'Ai of
the jurisdictional lads, contained in a »rni*u (nAiUon or
answer, duly verified, used in the MiM'/gaU't court. '1 in;
fact that the parties vu;ie amy «:i',i-<i i*. pfenuinutivci/
proTed, by a recitlal to that eflect ii. tne dnciw
1 2474- The surrogate's court olnaiiu jurisdiction in
erery ease by tlie existence of the _jin-i.-<i,<-fit»i.ii. iaeu jhc
scribed l>y statute, and by tin eiutioi. oi .i|»|/i-jti.n,«,i of u»i:
necessary partie.-. An ohj.-ctioi. to a in i n i \n o'.wi <t«.
termination, louuded noon i.n nnn-xion tin o'm <h in tinpapers upon wliiel. il v.a-. loundid, o1 tin- mua <n jni/ot
of any fact necessity to jiiri^hctiof winn, ;n.-t..al.,\ <v:,»u<l,
or the failure to Vi'm ai.; ijin.'tin.ciiiaii piocu-'tini: n^mod
by htwto be Uu.ei i» a»ai«aon;</niv uoon ajij/ca' il.i1 loi the better protect ion of any party, or other person interested,
the surrogate's court may, in its discretion, allow such
defect to be supplied by amendment.
44 Hun, 106.
g 2475. Jurisdiction, once duly exercised over any
matter, by a surrogate's court, excludes the subsequent ex
ercise of jurisdiction by another surrogate's court, over the
same matter, and all its incidents, except as otherwise
specially prescribed by law. Where a guardian has been
duly appointed by, or letters testamentary or of administra
tion have been duly issued from, or any other special pro
ceeding has been duly commenced in, a surrogate's court
having jurisdiction, all further proceedings, to be taken in
a surrogate's court, with respect to the same estate or mat
ter, must be taken in the same court.
l Dem. 203.
§ 2476. The surrogate's conrt of each county has juris
diction, exclusive of ever}' other surrogate's court, to take
the proof of a will, and to grant Utters testamentary there
upon, or to grant letters of administration, as the case re
quires, in either of the following cases :
1. Where the decedent was, at the time of his death, a
resident of that county, whether his death happened there
or elsewhere.
2. Where the decedent, not being a resident of the
State, died within that county, leaving personal property
within the State, or leaving personal property which has,
since his death, come into the State, and remains unadministered.
3. Where the decedent, not being a resident of the State,
died without the State, leaving personal property within
that county, and no other ; or leaving personal property
which has, since his death, come into that county, and no
other, and remains unadministered.
4. Where the decedent was not, at the time of his death,
a resident of the State, and a petition for probate of his
will, or for a grant of letters of administration, under sub
division second or third of this section, has not been filed
in any surrogate's court ; but real property of the decedent,
to which the will relates, or which is subject to disposition
under title fifth of this chapter, is situated within that
county, and no other.
§ 2477. Where personal property of the decedent is
within, or comes into, two or more counties, under the cir
cumstances specified in subdivision third of the last section :
or real property of the decedent is situated in two or more
counties, tinder the circumstances specified in subdivision
fourth of the last section; the surrogate's courts of those
counties have concurrent jurisdiction, exclusive of every
other surrogate's court, to take the proof of the will and
grant letters testamentary thereupon, or to grant letters of
administration, as the case requires. But where a petition
for probate of a will, or for letters of administration, has
been duly filed in either of the courts so possessing concurrent jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of that court excludes
that of the other.
§ 3478. For the purpose of conferring jurisdiction upon
a surrogate's court, a debt, owing to a decedent by a resi
dent of the State, is regarded as personal property, situated
withiu the county where the debtor, or either of two or
more joint debtors, resides ; and a debt, owing toltini by n
domestic corporation, is regarded as personal property,
situated within the county where the principal office of tho
corporation is situated, lint the foregoing provision iloea
not apply to a debt evidenced by a bond, promissory nolo,
or other instrument for the payment of money only, in
terms negotiable, or payable to the bearer or holder. Such
a debt, whether the debtor is a resident or non-resident of
the State, or a foreign or a domestic government, utato,
county, public officer, association, or corporation, Is, for
the purpose of so conferring jurisdiction, regarded as per
sonal property, at the place where the bond, note, or other
instrument is, eitlier within or without the State.
§ 2479. [Am'd 1883.) Where a new county has been
heretofore, or is hereafter, erected, or territory bus liecn
heretofore, or is hereafter, transferred from one county lo
another, the jurisdiction of the surrogate'* court of each of
the counties affected thereby, U> lake the proof of a will,
or to grant letters, depends upon the locality, where Urn
petition is presented, of the place wliw, Uw. property of
the decedent is situated, or where the event occuirea, m
the case may lie, which determines jurisdiction. Jf, Mortt
the erection of the new county, <>r \\if. transfer of (he U-rtir
tory, letters have been granted. upon tin- ground U<»1 U*¥
decedent died or resided within the <><>ujjiy, (he hun'tynU-'n
court from which they were issue* i ha* eju-Jusive juru-dic
tion of the estate, and ol aU uutin-it iji<;i<j»-otaJ theojto;
and if the place where the decwiem died or ii;m'1</J in-m
braced withiu another county, certified oopic* of v.ny j/ujx-im
or proceedings, filed, entered, o» n/jwwJ u Un tiuii<syj,iU/»
court thereof, must 1* furnished on (In pu\ nn-ui o) the
fees therefore, by the proper oth<;ei , Uj auj ^iw<u mU-Hgitod
in the estate ; and upon the lailefi- le^ue^i und payment
of the fees thei efor. the proper ohV.e« of im (,wi »/ 1*»
ing jurisdiction inusi file, enter ot re<.oio" tin Mum in like
maimer and with like efleel m- im <>• .^n.,n.
W hi«< tin;
letters were granted upon any j-.o/uni. o'i.i.i ti,;n Un <nv;
dent's death or n^ioeiiM »iinii tin < omiu tin jirfi.-o.eUoii
of the court fioni wtiicn tm-y wen < -.n, j< n,,i,/,. mint
fected by any eiiaiij!i in tin l> ■ iii<,r..i. 1./..1 ol 1- <<«oiii/
t: 2480. A s|»-i-iil |MO>w(lii>f' pernio. y » t >nii^jiv
court, whose jnri-'lii-tjvi 11. in.i .i.j tj,< ..../>,t *,- i.im h
away by the provision,- o* tin W ^i > i.oj o' ... < v.. *<]••< '.■ <
of the erection o' a uew county, v l.n ji.iui.vi </' tm .i,in
• >rial limits ot a eo'jjj'* aii.e> imsiM-i ..<r. ■■ • •*. <■ n..» if
transferred, the surrogale's court having jurisdiction ; and the latter
court has the same jurisdiction, power, and authority witt
respect thereto, which the former court would have had.ii
the territorial limits of its county had not been changed.
§ 2481. A surrogate, in court or out of court, astht
case requires, his power :
1. To issue citations to parties, in any matter within the
jurisdiction of his court ; and, in a case prescribed by law,
to compel the attendance of a party.
2. To adjourn, from time to time, a hearing or other pro
ceeding in his court ; and where all persons who are neces
sary parties have not been cited or notified, and citation or
notice lias not been waived by appearance or otherwise, it
is his duty, before proceeding further, so to adjourn the
same, and to issue a supplemental citation, or require the
petitioner to give an additional notice, as may be necessary.
3. To issue, under the seal of the court, a subpoena, re
quiring the attendance of a witness, residing or being in
any part of the State ; or a subpoena duces tecum, requir
ing such attendance, and the production of a book or paper
material to an inquiry pending in the court.
4. To enjoin, by order, an executor, administrator, testa
mentary trustee, or guardian, to whom a citation or other
process has been duly issued from his court, from acting
as such, until the further order of the court.
5. To require, by order, an executor, administrator, testa
mentary trustee, or guardian, subject to the jurisdiction of
his court, to perform any duty imposed upon him, by
statute, or by the surrogate's court, under authority of a
statute,
6. To open, vacate, modify, or set aside, or to enter, as
of a former time, a decree or order of his court ; or to grant
a new trial or a new hearing for fraud, newly discovered
evidence, clerical error, or other sufficient cause. The
powers, conferred by this subdivision, must be exercised
only in a like case and in the same manner, as a court of
record and of general jurisdiction exercises the same
powers. Upon an appeal from a determination of the sur
rogate, made upon an application pursuant to this subdivi
sion, the general term of the supreme court has the same
power as the surrogate ; and his determination must be
reviewed, as if an original application was made to that
term.
7. To punish any person for a contempt of his court,
civil or criminal, in any case, where it is expressly pre
scribed by law that a court of record may punish a person
for a similar contempt, and in like manner.
8. Subject to the provisions of law, relating to the dis
qualification of a judge iu certain cases, to complete any
unfinished business, pending before his predecessor in
the office, including proofs, accountings, and examinations.
9. To complete, and certify and sign in his own name, adding to his signature the date of so doing, all records or
papers, left uncompleted or unsigned by any of his prede
cessors.
10. To exemplify and certify transcripts of all records of
his court, or other papers remaining therein.
11. With respect to any matter not expressiy provided 13 Abb.
for in the foregoing subdivisions of this section, to proceed, C. 85a.
in all matters subject to the cognizance of his court, ac
cording to the course and practice of a court, having, by
the common law, jurisdiction of such matters, except as
otherwise prescribed by statute ; and to exercise such inci
dental powers, as are necessary to carry into effect the pow
ers expressly conferred.
§ 2482. Each provision of this chapter, relating to the
jurisdiction of the surrogate's court, to take the proof of a
■will, and to grant letters testamentary, or letters of admin
istration, or regulating the mode of proceeding in any
matter connected with the estate of a decedent, applies, un
less otherwise expressly declared therein, whether the will
was made, or the decedent died, before or after this chapter
takes effect.
ARTICLE SECOND.
General Duties and Disabilities op the Surrogate,
or Temporary Surrogate.
f 2483. Surrogate and acting surrogate; their official designations.
2484. Vacancy or disability ;
who to act as surrogate.
2485. Id. ; if surrogate disqnalitied.
2486. Id. ; in New York and
Kings counties.
2487. Proof of authority.
2488. Id. ; when and how made.
24S9. How authority superseded.
2490. Proceedings in New York
and Kings c< unties regulated.
2491. Id. ; transfer of proceedings to surrogate's court.
2492. Temporary
surrogate ;
when board of supervisors may appoint,
$ 2193. Id.; compensation,
2494. Id. ; acts, etc , where and
how recorded.
2495. Surrogate, when not to be
counsel, etc.
2496. Surrogate, when disqnalifletT
2497. Disqualification ; when
objection must be taken,
2498, 2199 Books to be kept by
surrogate.
2500. Papers and books to bo
preserved,
2501. Surrogate to report fees.
250.J. What papers to be transmitted to secretary of
State ; expenses thereof.

§ 2483. Where the county judge is also surrogate, he
may be designated, in any paper or proceeding relating to
the office of surrogate, as the surrogate of the county, with
out any addition referring to his office as county judge. A
local officer electe.l, as prescribed in the constitution, to
discharge the duties of surrogate, or of county judge and
surrogate, is designated in this act, and, when acting as sur
rogate, may be designated, as the "special surrogate" of
his county. Where an officer, other than the surrogate, acts
as surrogate in a case prescribed by law, he must be desig
nated by his official title, with the addition of the words,
" and acting surrogate ".
5 2484. Where, in any county, except Xew York
Kings, the office of surrogate is vacant ; or the sun-ogatti !
disabled, by reus 'n of sickness, absence, or lnnacy ; so:
special provision is not made t>y law. for the discbarge <•'.
the duties of his office in that contingency ; the duties o:
his office must be discharged, until the vacancy is filled, or
the disability ceases, as follows:
1. By the special surrogate.
2. If there is no special surrogate, or he i*in like manner
disabled, or is precluded or disqualified, by the special
county judge.
3. if there is no special county judge, or he is in Ufa
manner disabled, or is precluded or disqualified, by the
county judge.
4. li there is no county judge, or he is in Hke manner
disabled, or is precluded or disqualified, by the districtattorney.
But before an officer is entitled to act, as prescribed in
this section, proof of his authority to act. as prescribed in
section two thousand four hundred and eighty seven of this
act, must be made.
§ 2485. Where the surrogate of any county, except
Xew York or Kings, is precluded or disqualified from act
ing with respect to any particular matter, his jurisdiction
and powers with respect to that matter vest in the several
officers designated in the last section, in the order fherein
provided for. If there is no such officer qualified to act
therein, the surrogate may file in his office a certificate
stating that fact ; specifying the reason why he is disquali
fied or precluded, and designating the surrogate of an ad
joining county, other than Xew York or Kings, to act in
his place in the particular matter. Thereupon the surrogate
so designated has, with respect to that matter, all the
jurisdiction and powers of the surrogate making the desig
nation, and may exercise the same in either county.
niiKUist,
% 2486. [Am'd 1881.] In the county of Xew York, the
•J'?/!?.!
of common pleas for that city and county, at a
*■:
Uuii, 'Ya
I 0. court
special term thereof, and in the county of Kings, the su
preme court at a special term thereof held in the city of
Brooklyn, must, upon the presentation of proof of its
authority as prescribed in the next section, exercise all the
powers and jurisdiction of the surrogate's court as follows
1. Where the surrogate is precluded or disqualified from
acting, with respect to a particular matter, it must exercise
all the powers and jurisdiction of that court with respect
to that matter.
2. Where the office of surrogate of the county is vacant,
or the surrogate is disabled by reason of sickness, absence
or lunacy, it must exercise all the powers and jurisdiction
of that court, until the vacancy is filled, or the disability
ceases, as the case may be.
§ 2487. [Am'd 1887.] The authority of another officer,
or' in the cou.ity of New York, of the court of common
pleas, or, in the county of Kings, of the supreme court, to
act as prescribed in the last three sections, must be proved,
in one of the following modes : •
1. Where the surrogate is disqualified or precluded from
siding in a particular matter, that fact may be proved by
the surrogate's certificate thereof; or, except as otherwise
prescribed in section two thousand four hundred and
eighty-live, by affidavit or oral testimony.
m2. The fact that the surrogate is so disqualified or pre
cluded, or that he is disabled, or that the office is vacant,
and also the authority of the officer, or of the court as the
case may be, to act in his place, may be proved, and are
deemed conclusively established by an order of a justice of
the supreme court of the judicial district embracing the
county. After such an order is made, the surrogate shall
not make the certificate specified in section two thousand
tour hundred and eighty-five of this act, and if such a cer
tificate has been theretofore made and filed, the powers and
duties of the surrogate therein designated, as specified in
that section, thenceforth cease.
§ 2488. [Am'd 1889.] An order may be made as prescribed in subdivision second of the last section, upon or
•without notice, as a justice of the supreme court of the
judicial district embracing the county thinks proper. It
must recite the cause of the making thereof,, it must desig
nate the officer or court empowered to discharge the
duties of the office of surrogate ; and, if it relates to a
particular matter only, it must designate that matter.
It may, in the discretion of the justice, require an
officer to give security for the due discharge
of the duties therein. Where the office of surrogate is
vacant, or the surrogate is disabled by reason of lunacy, the
Attorney-General, if directed by the governor, must, or the
di trict-attorney, upon his own motion, may apply for the
order, and a justice of the supreme court of the judicial
district embracing the county must grant it upon his appli
cation. A justice of the supreme court of the judicial dis
trict embracing the county may also grant the order upon
the application of a party, or a person about to become a
party to any special proceeding in the surrogate's court.
Where the surrogate is sick or absent, the granting of the
order rests in the discretion of the justice, and its effect may
be qualified as the justice thinks proper.
§ 2489. [Am'd 1889.] Where an order is made by a
justice of the supreme court of the judicial district embracing the county as prescribed in the last two sections or
an appointment is made by the board of supervisors as pre
scribed in section twenty-four hundred and ninety-two of
this act, for any cause except a vacancy in the office of sur
rogate, it maybe revoked, without prejudice t:> any pro***ji=.r* ti«P8t-<f^r» tue: Vr tlvje limit..*!. ln- i ;:^a» -.?
\m ntcr^s^t 'x»jTt rf u>e T^ixsii <fc-Br>~i. embracer; the
tr.rrvrTiVr * rrr^L-rr •c-f.m xr'.nt tit* ■ w»r i-s.r--:.T>iers:T
J»'j>- '.c ti.1rt tje ct^* <■•■' rar- y -r >«=* ty- g-v- napezatrc.
f- y :. ■ r. :t~"? r *: -fci^^s^A s»^ ■ut»o ;_<- ir^an-i Tii
tiy- •-T-it.v- •-.■?.-»- i* -ii»:*i:. j« jnjeeeocd without ibt
fv-n.41 »"r <.«£.' j .«. by u*- e . ^_r of Ui*- raaxr. After li*
«j«t '*■ *;•!• <lt-u-^:t k i»-Tf it»i. or Tat ncaacy is Jilted.
a* t _•*: <*•* K. -.t t*r. tt«e cr rra-i»r»i iy^sz*** in any proceed\:.i- '*i.r: '• - -.--•* of tie wier <r a; t»:ttjaect. bus! be
t -it--f-rred u< ai:-; ii»r be o«r.jj*sd by ti*t ^arrogate in
t'<**Bu'ij* EjaLaer »J>i with Hie ent<t as wi-ere a uew surMrpaz caaii'ituAtite uiLZnissxM bosmess of his predecessor.
% J 1*7. <>•| 2490. In a social proceeding cogr.izs"c«e before s
•**- ■***arrogate, tusen in the court of common pkas. or the
tn premie court, as pre-vribed in this article, the seal of the
court in which it is taken, must be used, where a seal is
necessary. The special proceeding must be entitled in that
wirt ; and the papers therein must be filed or recorded, as
the cane may be. and issues therein most be tried, as in an
action brought in that court. The clerk of that court must
*ign each record, which is required to be signed by the
currogate or the clerk of the surrogate's court. The issuing
of a citation may be directed, and any order intermediate
the citation and the decree may be made, by a judge of the
court.
f um. cm.
£ 2431. The court may, at any time, in its discretion,
«oi. Aet
upon being satisfied that the reason for the exercise of its
powers and jurisdiction has ceased to operate, make an
order to transfer to the surrogate's court, any matter then
[lending liefore it. Such an order operates to transfer the
same accordingly. Immediately after such a transfer, or
after the revocation of the order of the general term, as
prescribed in the last section but one, the surrogate must
cause entries to be made in the proper book in his office,
referring to all the papers filed, and orders entered, or
other proceedings taken, in the court of common pleas, or
the supreme court ; and he may cause copies of any of the
orders or papers to be made, and recorded or filed in his
office, at the expense of the county.
g 2492. In any county, except New York or Kings, if
the surrogate is disabled, by reason of sickness, absence, or
lunacy, or the office of surrogate becomes vacant before the
expiration of a full term, and there is no special surrogate,
or special county judge of the same county, who is com
petent and able to act as surrogate, the board of supervisors
may, in its discretion, appoint a suitable person, to act as
surrogate, until the surrogate's disability ceases, or his term
of office expires, if the disability continues until then;
or until a special surrogate or a special county judge is
elected or appointed. A person so appointed must, befort
entering upon the execution of the duties of his office, take and file an oath of office, and give an official bond, as pre
scribed by law, with respect to a person elected to the office
of surrogate.
§ 2493. An officer, or a person appointed by the board
of supervisors, who acts as surrogate of any county during
a vacancy in the office, or in consequence of disability, as
prescribed in Ihcla.-t nine sections, must be paid, for the
time (luring which he so acts, a compensation equal, pro
rata, to the salary of the surrogate ; or, in a county where
the county judge is also surrogate, to the salary of the
county judge. The amount of his compensation must be
audited and pr.id, in like manner as the salary of the surro
gate, or of the county judge, as the case may be. Where
an officer of the coanty performs the duties of the surro
gate, with respect to a particular matter, wherein the sur
rogate is disqualified or precluded from acting, the super
visors of the county must allow him a just compensatiob
for his services therein, to be audited and collected in the
same manner.
§ 2494. "Where an act is done or a proceeding is taken 32 Hun, 488.
by, before, or by authority of, an officer, or a person ap
pointed by the boa'd of supervisors, temporarily acting as
surrogate of any county, as prescribed in this article, the
same must bo recorded, or the proper minutes thereof must
be entered, in the books of the surrogate's court, in like
manner as if the same was done or taken by, before, or
by authority of the surrogate of the county ; and the
officer or person so acting, or the clerk of the surrogate's
court, must sign the certificate of probate and any letters'
so issued, and must certify the record thereof in the book.
§ 2495. A surrogate shall not be counsel, solicitor, or
attorney, in a civil action or special proceeding, for or
against any executor, administrator, temporary adminis
ter, testamentary trustee, guardian, or infant, over whom,
or whose estates or accounts, he could have any jurisdic
tion by law.
§ 2493. In addition to his general disqualifications as a
•judicial officer, a surrogate is disqualified from acting upon
an application for probate, or for letters testamentary, or
letters of administration, in each of the following cases :
1 Where he is, or claims to be, an heir or one of the
next of kin to the decedent, or a devisee or legatee of any
part of the estate.
2. Where he is a subscribing witness, or is necessarily
examined or to be examined as a witness, to any written
or nuncupative will.
P. Where he is named as executor, trustee, or guardian,
in any will, or deed of appointment, involved in tlie matter
^ v.49!* An ol,Jep,ion to the power of a surrogate to
act, based upon a disqualification, established by special
provision of law, other than one of those enumerated in the last section, is waived by an adult party to a special
proceeding before Lira, unless it is taken at or before the
joinder of issue by that party ; or, where an issue in
writing is not framed, at or before the submission of the
matter or question to the surrogate.
§ 2498. Each surrogate must provide and keep the
following books :
1. A record book of wills, in which must be recorded,
at length, every will, required by law to be recorded in hi3
office, with the decree admitting it to probate, and also, if
the probate is not contested, the proof taken thereupon.
2. A record-book of letters testamentary and letters of
administration, in which must be recorded all such letters,
issued out of his court.
3. A record-book, in which must be recorded every de
cree, whereby the account of an executor, administrator,
trustee, or guardian is settled.
4. A book, containing a minute of every paper filed,
or other proceeding taken, relating to the disposition of the
real property of a decedent, and a record of every order oi
decree, made thereupon ; with a memorandum of every
report made, and other proceeding taken, founded upon a
decree for such a disposition.
6. A book, containing a record of every decree or order,
the record of which is not required by this section to be
kept elsewhere ; together with a memorandum of each exe
cution issued, and of the satisfaction of each decree recorded
therein.
6. A book, in which must be recorded all letters of guar' dianship, issued out of his court.
7. A book of fees and disbursements, in which must be
entered, by items, all fees charged or received by him for
services or expenses, and all disbursements made or incurred
by him, which are chargeable against those fees, or to the
county.
The expense of providing the books specified in this sec
tion is a county charge.
§ 2499. To each of the books, kept as prescribed in the
last section, must be attached an alphabetical index refer
ring to the page of the book, where each subject may be
found. The surrogate may keep two or more books, for a
further division of the subjects specified in either subdivi
sion of the last seel ion ; in which case, he must keep a
separate index to each set of books. Each decree, revoking
the probate of a will, or revoking or otherwise affecting
letters testamentary, lellers of administration, or letters of
guardianship, or suspending or removing a testamentary
trustee, or modifying or otherwise affecting any other de
cree, must be plainly noted at the end or in the margin of
the record of the will letters or origin. ' decree with a ref
erence to the book and page where tl.e subsequent decree
is recorded. The books, kept as prescribed in the last Section, appertain to the surrogate's office, and must l>e oi>eu,
at all reasonable times, to the inspection of any person.
§ 2500. A surrogate must carefully file and preserve in
his office, every deposition, affidavit, petition, report, ac
count, voucher, or other paper, relating to any proceeding
i:i his court ; and must deliver to his successor all the pa
pers and books kept by him.
§2501. The surrogate of each county, except New
York, must, at his own expense, make a report to the
board of supervisors of the county, on the first day of each
annual meeting thereof, containing a statement, verified by
his oath, of all fees received or charged by him for services
or expenses, since the last report, and of "all disbursements
chargeable against the same, or to the county, stating par
ticularly each item thereof.
§2602. [Repealed 1884.]
§ 2503. A surrogate who admits to probate the will of
a person, who was not a resident of the State at the time
of his death ; or grants original or ancillary letters testa
mentary upon such a will, or original or ancillary letters of
administration upon the estate of such a person ; must,
within ten d;i3rs thereafter, transmit to the secretary of
State, to be filed in his office, a certified copy of the will
or letters. The surrogate's fees for making the copy, and
the expenses of transmission, must be audited by the
comptroller, and paid out of the treasury upon his warrant.
§ 2510. Id.; surrogate liable for
to be open.
his acts.
2505. When surrogate to attend.
2511. Clerk, etc., not to be ap2506. "When and where court
praieer, attorney, etc.
held by county judge.
2512. Stenographer for surro2507. Seal.
gate's courts in New
250S. Clerksinsurrogate'sofflce.
York and Kings.
2509. Clerk of surrogate's court;
2513. Id.: in other counties.
how appointed ; his
2511. Definition of expressions
powers.
used in this chapter.
§ 2504. The surrogate's court is always open for the
transaction of any business, within its powers and jurisdic
tion.
§ 2505. [Am'd 1881.] The surrogate must, unless pre- jnn", convented by sickness or other unavoidable casualty, attend sol. A'ct.
at his office on Monday of each week, except during the **Han,B99.
month of August, or where Monday is a public holiday,
on the following Tuesday, to execute the powers conferred
and the duties imposed upon him. But the surrogate of
any county may, by an instrument in writing, under his
hand, filed in the office of the clerk of the county at least
twenty days before the first day of January in any year,
designate a day of the week, other than Monday, on which he will attend at his office, or a month other than August,
during which he will be absent therefrom, or both during
that year ; and where the county judge is also surrogate,
he is not required to attend at his office on any day when
the county court or the court of sessions is sitting. The
surrogate must also execute the duties of his office, at
such other times and places, within his county, as the
public convenience requires. The surrogate of the county
of Xew York may sign decrees, letters testamentary, of
administration and guardianship, and orders to show
cause, during the month of August or such other month
as he shall designate for his vacation wherever he shall
be passing such vacation within the State.
§ 2506. The surrogate's court, in a county where the
county judge is also surrogate, may be held at the time
and place at which the county court is held ; and, in that
case, the order of business of the county court, the court
of sessions, and the surrogate's court, is under the direc
tion of the county judge.
6- 2507. The surrogate's court has a seal, of which the
surrogate has charge.
§ 2508. Each surrogate may appoint, and at pleasure
remove, as many clerks for his office, to be paid by the
county, as the board of supervisors of his county, or, in
the city and county of New York, the board of aldermen,
authorize him so to appoint. The board of supervisors or
the board of aldermen, as the case requires, must fix the
compensation of the clerk or clerks so appointed ; and
may authorize them, or either of them, to receive, for their
or his own use, the legal fees for making copies of any rec
ord or paper in the office of the surrogate. A surrogate
may appoint, and at pleasure remove, as many additional
clerks, to be paid by him, as he thinks proper.*
§ 1131, Con§ 2509. A surrogate may, by a written order, filed and
sol. Act, as recorded in his office, and which he may, in like manner.
L^rss! b<f rev°ke at pleasure, appoint a clerk employed in his office
530.
'
to be the clerk of the surrogate's court. The clerk so ap
pointed may exercise concurrently with the surrogate the
following powers of the surrogate :
1. He may certify and sign as clerk of the court any of
the records of the court, including the certificate specified
in section two thousand six hundred and twenty-nine of
this act, and the records and papers specified in subdivision
ninth of section two thousand four hundred and eighty-one
of this act.
2. lie may issue any mandate, to which a party is en
titled as of course, either unconditionally, or upon the filing
of any paper ; and may sign, as clerk of the court, and affix
the seal of the court to, any letters or mandate, issued from
the court.
* Repealed as to New York county by L. 1884, c. 580, § 11.
3. He may certify, in the manner prescribed by chapter
ninth of this act, a copy of any paper, required or permitted
by law to be filed or recorded" in the surrogate's ontoe.
4. He may adjourn to a definite time, not exceeding
thirty days, any matter, when the surrogate is absent from
Iiis office, or unable, by reason of other engagements, lo
attend to the same.
5. He may take the acknowledgment or proof of any In
strument, to be used or filed in the court of which lie Is
clerk.
The surrogate may prohibit the clerk from exercising any
power specified in this section, but the prohibition does not
niTect the validity of any act of the clerk done in disregard
of the prohibition.
§ 2510. Asui-rogate, hereafter elected or appointed, mid
the sureties in his official bond, are liable for any act of thn
clerk of the surrogate's court in the discharge of his official
duties, during the surrogate's term of office, as if the net wan
performed by the surrogate. The surrogate may take *ccurity from the clerk, to indemnify him against the liability
created by this section.
§ 2511. A clerk, or other person employed in any capacity, in a surrogate's office, shall not act as appro!.**, w»
attorney or counsel, or as referee or special guardian, in
any tnaltef before the surrogate.
§ 2612. The surrogate of *»ch of the countie* of S*w
York and Kings muat appoint, and may, for (-.numn, rimvive,
a stenographer for bit coort. who (s wrtitlM to a *»t»ry
fixed by law, ami to b* p»id ** th« wlarifc* of <;I*rk* h> the
surrogate'* office ant paul.
§ 2513. The turr'vjstfft nf tzuh rsmttj, rzf#r>f, Tim
York and Ktnjst, m-.\j. in his iWatrrtitxi, appoint. kuI «f,
pleasure i«»» tk«?n>.<rt\c,<\PT for h'.t oourt -who <hstl! k#
paid a re»v««.htft '•..irs-.jpnwfrif.i '<>r~i;Vd '■•? v.* mr?',?.***,
in every eaHefei •»*.- cti ]\i> r^r* nr.m <-,f i><»i-i men/-, iW.h
co:npem«twjiii » pw". <-,f -h,» /v.si* <-,{ -,„. priw>»r:..vjp.
§2514. fowni^rrhv* 'he p*.V'>ion*'»f 'hw *.h*r/v».r ">n»
following rvDft* n\UMt '.(• •.iv.<>r,,r! »wpr/ >rV-» * v.'itrny
intent UMjpBwtafrierliiiv.-i u -lift }i"v;ui<-,n v, -v> -v,nsff-n»d,
or plainly appawnr *■ vn <i»> v,>ti.>-.-; \w»rJt .
1. Thft »'Wrt,. " ihnXtali' ' ji.r.vflAH t 5dr«n V'l* 1<Vit
without feanrjitf * .• Uiit v" II vit vlim-' t ,h i«erl -r'tb
respect to|fiurt5(>.:it!ir'1)K)r)<<rr.; t »ii/-,iif1«>!< * yfjon r'm I'M
wit :out tffWiiatlv ticijnauicr -if' -lint, ir'.n"^ f iy "V"'N,
whet her be fet*: * vll «• tot
2. Tfi* »< »,rrt; < uwn ' ricr-.iinV? yrwvvil jriyr';' jp.
plicabtetoSu'. ^»tv iii'tii ^ i„. \,,;,t^ \f f .^Airnt
3. Tbfr W.trn\
• (phfu ' nclof'ca Avr; ,!""1' "'d
demand. :inAHJiV'ilc!i » ,, ,(.•■,„„„» ,,r , mn ^ rinney ir»
direetingalht (jny/mw if* ,ti< ».<■-- -.,-»iiH .,» <•?■ "••m.ii n >n
action ; itftd! ;j|,> «r,trl| • .,.,, i;i, ,
nrtiides «-.•!•• jcwi
having auttl*. .;»},„ ,, (,.,„„,„.
4. The word, "will", signifies a last will and testament,
an'l includes all the codicils to a will.
5. The expression, "letters of administration", includes
letters of temporary administration.
6. The expression, "testamentary trustee", includes
every person, except an executor, an administrator with
the will annexed, or a guardian, who is designated by a
will, or by any competent authority, to execute a trust
created by a will ; and it includes such an executor or
administrator, where he is acting in the execution of a trust
created by the will, which is separable from his functions
as executor or administrator.
7. The word, "surrogate", where it is used in the text,
or in a bond or undertaking, given pursuant to any pro
vision of this chapter, includes every officer or court vested
by law with the functions of surrogate.
8. The expression, "judicial settlement", where it is
applied to an account, signifies a decree of a surrogate's
court, whereby the account is made conclusive upon the
parties to the special proceeding, either for all purposes, or
for certain purposes specified in the statute ; and an account
thus made conclusive is said to be "judicially settled".
9. The expn ssion, " intermediate account ", denotes an
account filed in the surrogate's office, for the purpose of
disclosing the acts of the person accounting, and the con
dition of the estate or fund in his hands, and not made the
subject of a judicial settlement.
10. The expression, "upon the return of a citation",
where it is used in a provision requiring an act to be done
in the surrogate's court, relates to the time and place at
which the citation is returnable, or to which the hearing is
adjourned ; includes a supplemental citation, issued to
bring in a party who ought to be, but has not been cited ;
and implies that, before doing the act specif"'!, due proof
must be made, that all persons required to oj cited have
been duly cited.
ii9 n.y. 28.
11. The expression, " person interested ", where it is used
in connection with an estate or a fund, includes every per
son entitled, either absolutely or contingently, to share in
the estate or the proceeds thereof, or in the fund, as hus
band, wife, legatee, next of kin, heir, devisee, assignee,
grantee, or otherwise, except as a creditor. Where a pro
vision of this chapter prescribes that a person interested
may object to an appointment, or may apply for an inven
tory, an account, or increased security, an allegation of his
interest, duly verified, suffices, although his interest is
disputed ; unless he has been excluded by a judgment,
decree, or other final determination, and no appeal there
from is pending.
12. The term, " next of kin ", includes all those entitled,
under the provisions of law relating to the distribution of
personal property, to share in the unbequeathed residue of the assets of a decedent after payment of debts and ex
penses, other than a surviving husband or wife.
13. The expression, "real property", includes every
estate, interest, and right, legal or equitable, in lauds,
tenements, or hereditaments, except those which aie deter
mined or extinguished by the death of a person seized or
possessed thereof, or in any manner entitled thereto, and
except those which are declared by law to be assets. The
word, "inheritance", signifies real property, as defined in
this subdivision, descended as prescribed by law. The
expression, "personal property", signifies every kind of
property, which survives a decedent, other than real prop
erty as denned in this subdivision, and includes a right of
action conferred by special statutory provision upon an
executor or administrator.
§8515. A citation or other mandate of a surrogate's
court must, except where it is otherwise specially prescribed
by law, be made returnable before the surrogate from whose
court it was issued, and may be served or executed in any
county. A warrant of attachment must be directed to the
sheriff of the surrogate's county ; who may execute it in
any county, and must convey the person arrested to the
place where it is returnable.
§ 2516. Except in a case where it is otherwise specially
prescribed by law, a special proceeding in a surrogate s
court must be commenced by the service of a citation,
issued upon the presentation of a petition. But upon the
presentation of the petition, the court acquires jurisdiction
to do any act, which may be done before actual service of
the citation.
* Dem. 318.
§ 25 1 7. The presentation of a petition is deemed the com
mencement of a special proceeding, within the meaning of
any provision of this act, which limits the time for the
commencement thereof. But in order to entitle the peti
tioner to the benefit of this section, a citation issued upon the
presentation of the petition, must, within sixty days there
after, be served, as prescribed in section two thousand five
hundred and twenty of this act, upon the adverse party, or
upon one or two or more adverse parties, who are jointly
liable, or otherwise united in interest ; or, within the same
time, the first publication thereof must be made, pursuant
to an order made as prescribed in section two thousand five
hundred and twenty-two of this act.
§ 2518. Where it is prescribed, in any provision of this
chapter, that a petition must pray that a person, or that
creditors, next of kin, legatees, heirs, devisee , or other
persons constituting a class, maybe cited for any purpose,
all those persons are necessary parties to the special pro
ceeding. Where persons to be cited constitute a class, the
petitioner must set forth in an affidavit, the name of each
of them, unless the name, or part of the name, of one or
more of them cannot, after diligent inquiry, be ascertained
by him ; in which case, that fact must be set forth, and the
surrogate must, thereupon, inquire into the matter. For
the purpose of the inquiry, he may, in his descretion, issue
a subpoena, requiring any person to attend before him to
testify respecting the matter. If he is satisfied, upon the
•allegations of the petitioner, or after making the inquiry,
that the name of one or more of the persons to be cited,
cannot bo ascertained with reasonable diligence, the citation
may be directed to that, person orthose persons, by a general
designation, .showing his, her, or their connection with the
decedent, or interest in the property or matter in question ;
or otherwise sufficiently identifying the person or persons
intended. A citation, thus directed, has the same force
and effect, as if it was directed to the person or per
sous intended, by their names ; and where the person or persons bo intended are duly cited, in any manner pre
scribed by law, the decree binds them, as if they were
named therein. A petition, duly verified, is deemed an
affidavit, within the meaning of this section.
§ 2519. A citation must tic made returnable upon a day
certain, designated therein, not mere than lour months after
the date thereof ; and must specify whose estate or what
subject-matter is in question. The names of all the per
sons to be cited, as far as they can be ascertained, must be
contained in the citation. Where the name, or part of the
name, of either of them cannot be ascertained, that fact
must be stated in the citation.
§ 2520. Except where special provision is otherwise SDem. S77.
made by law, service of a citation, within the State, must
be made upon an adult person, or an infant of the age of
fourteen years or upwards, by delivering a copy thereof to
the person to be served, or by leaving a copy at his resi
dence, or the place where he sojourns, with a person of
suitable age and discretion, under such circumstances, that
the surrogate has good reason to believe that the copy tame
to Iris knowledge, in time for him to attend at the return
day. A citation must be so served, if within the county of
the surrogate, or an adjoining county, at least eight (lays
before the return day thereof ; if in any other county, at
least fifteen days before the return day ; unless, in either
case, the person served, being an adult, and not incom
petent, assents in writing to a service within a shoiter time.
Any person, although a party to the special proceeding,
may serve a citation.
§ 2521. Where it appears, by affidavit, to the satisfac
tion of the surrogate from whose court a citation issued,
that proper and diligent effort has been made to serve it
upon a resident of the State, as prescribed in the last sec
tion ; and that the person to be served cannot lie found, or,
if found, that he evades service, so that it cannot be made ;
the surrogate may make an order, directing that service
thereof be made, as prescribed in section four hundred
and thirty-six of this act ; and the provisions of that section
and of section four hundred and thirty-seven of this act,
relating to the service; of a summons, apply to the service of
a citation, pursuant to an order made as prescribed in this
section.
§ 2522. [Am'd 1881.] The surrogate, from whose
court a citation is issued, may make an order, directing the
service thereof without the State, or by publication, in
either of the following cases :
1. Where it is to bo served upon a foreign corporation,
or upon a person who is not a resident of the State.
2. Where the person to be served, being a resident of the
State, has departed therefrom, with intent to defraud his
creditors, or to avoid the service of process.
3. Where the person to he served, whether an adult or
an infant, is a resident of the State, but is temporarily ab
sent therefrom.
4. Where the person to be served is a resident of the State,
or a domestic corporation, and an attempt was made to
serve a citation, issued from the same surrogate's court,
upon the presentation of the same petition, before the ex
piration of the limitation applicable to the enforcement of
the claim set forth in the petition, as fixed in chapter
fourth of this act ; and the limitation would have expired,
within sixty days next preceding the application for the
order, if the time has not been extended by the attempt to
serve the citation.
§ 2523. The surrogate may also make an order, direct
ing the service of a citation without the State, or by puU.
cation, in either of the following cases :
1. Upon a party to whom a citation is directed, either b;
his full name or part of his name, where the surrogate i<
satisfied, by affidavit, that the residence of that party can
not. after diligent inquiry, be ascertained by the petitioner.
2. Upon one or more unknown creditors, next of kit .
legatees, heirs, devisees, or other persons included in a class,
to whom a citation has been directed, designating them In
a general description, as prescribed in this article.
§ 2524. [Atn'd 1881.] Where an order, directing the
service of a citation without the State, or by publication,
is made as prescribed in either of the last two sections, the
party applying therefore must produce proof, by afti
davit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the surro
gate, that the case is one of those specified in those see
tions. The order must diiect that service of the citation
upon the person named or described in the order be made
by publication of the citation in two newspapers, designated
as prescribed in this article, for a specified time, which the
surrogate deems reasonable, not less than once in each of
six consecutive weeks, or, at the option of the petitioner,
by delivering a copy of the citation, without the State, lo
each person so named or described, in person, and if the
person to be served is an infant under the age of fourteen
years, also the person with whom he is sojourning, or, if
the service is made upon a corporation, to an officer there
of, specified in section four hundred and thirty-one or four
bundled and thirty-two of this act. It must also contain
either a direction that on or before the day of the first pub
lication, the petitioner deposit, in a specified post office, a
copy of the citation and of the order, contained in a securely
closed post-paid wrapper, directed to the person to be
served at a place specified in the order, and, if the person
to bo served is an infant under the age of fourteen years, a
further copy, likewise contained in a securely closed post
paid wrapper, directed to the person with whom such infant
is sojourning, or, a statement that the surrogate, being satisfied, hy the affidavit upon which the order was pointed,
that the petitioner cannot, with reasonable diligence, ascer
tain a place or places where the person to be served would
probably receive matter transmitted through the post-office,
dispenses with the deposit of any papers therein.
g 2525. [Am'd 1HH2] Where service is made by deliv
ering a copy of the citation without the state, pursuant to
an order made as prescribed in the last section, it must Ixj
made, If within the United States, at least thirty days, if
■without the United States at least forty days, before the re
turn day of the citation. Proof of publication, deposit, or
delivery may be made a- ptes-ribed in section four hun
dred and forty-four of this act.
§ 2526. Service of a citation must be made upon an in- 4* llon.Stl
fant under the age of fourteen years, a person judicially de
clared to be ineomjiet^nt to manage his affairs by nmson of
lunacy, idocy, or hubiiua] drunkenness, or a corporal vm , in
the manner prescribed for personal M-rvj' <- of a "-'jr.mojj*
upon such a person, or upon a corpo.-ali'-rj in arti' )•■ Jjt wt
of title first of chapter liiu> <A lid* act.
§ 2527. Where a jier-.oij. ci'nd or lo I* <-jv-d '» ajj in- «)>«uj. j&
fan t of the age of fourtnf-u year* oj u[.»aio» o; umi litt
surrogate has, in his <>ju-.uijl r^ust^'.' j'io .!<M< to b- :>••%•,
that a pereoa, cited 01 to t<e 'J'.'"- i> ai j.vi ■ ,.. ';>w.Vj i-J.
or for any cause lnetrit.ry in';i. ;«..«* &o'— m.* -1 f/ ;«oi/;<1.
his rights, altiiO'J !ru 11' >t ju ■■i'-iu,..y w.«j':^ 10 i* r.</«i j^>
tent to manage his in person or by an attorney regularly admitted to practice
in the courts of record, at bis election ; except in a proceed
ing to punish him for a contempt, or where he is required
to appear in person, by special provision of law, or by a
special order of the surrogate. The appearance of a party,
against whom a citation has been issued, has the same effect,
as the appearance of a defendant, in an action brought in
the supreme court.
§ 2529. A surrogate's father or son shall not practice or
be employed as attorney or counsel, in any case, in
which his partner or clerk is prohibited by law from so
piacticing, or being employed.
§2530. Where a party, who is an infant, does not appear
^ ujs generai guardian ; or where a party, who is a luna
tic, idiot, or habitual drunkard, does not appear by his
committee, the surrogate must appoint a competent and
responsible person, to appear as special guardian for that
party. Where an infant appears by his general guardian,
or where a lunatic, idiot, or habitual drunkard, appears by
his committee, the surrogate must inquire into the facts,
and must, in like manner, appoint a special guardian, if
there is any ground to suppose that the interest of the
general guardian or committee is adverse to that of the in
fant, or incompetent person ; or that, for any other reason,
the interests of the latter require the appointement of a
special guardian. A person can not be appointed such a
special guardian, unless his wiittcn consent is filed, at or
before the time of entering the order appointing him.
§ 2531. Where a person, other than the infant, or the
colllmittee of the incompetent person, applies for the appointment of a special guardian, as prescribed in the last
section, at least eight days' notice of the application must
be personally served upon the infant, or incompetent per
son, if he is within the State, and also upon the Committee,
if any, in like manner as a citation is required by law to lie
served. But except in a case specified in title fifth of this
chapter, the surrogate may, by an order to show cause,
prescribe a shorter lime, and direct the service of the order
to be made in such a manner as he deems proper. The
application may be made at the time of presenting the peti
tion, and, in that ease, the order to show cause may, in the
surrogate's discretion, accompany the citation.
§ 2532. Proof of service of a citation, or a subpoena
issued from a surrogate's court, must be made in the man
ner prescribed by law, for proof of service of a summons
issued out of the supreme court. In every other case, proof
of service must be made by affidavit ; or, where the person
served is of full age and not incompetent, by a written ad
mission signed by him, accompanied with proof, by affida
vit or otherwise, of the genuineness of his signature.
§ 2533. The surrogate may, at any time, require a party to file a written petition or answer, containing a plain and
concise statement of tlie facts constituting his claims, objec
tion, or defense, and a dem-md of the decree, order, or
other relief, to which he suppo-.es himself to be entitled.
The surrogate may require tiie petition or answer to be
verified, and a copy thereof to be served upon any other
person interested. A party who fails to comply with such
a requirement may be treated as a party in default Except
where such a requirement is made, or in a case where a
written petition is exprt-sly required by this act, a petition,
or the answer thereto, may be presented orally ; in which
case, the substance thereof must be entered in the records
of the courts.
§ 2534. The provisions of sections five hundred and * Dem; C9.
twenty-three, five hundred and twenty-four, five hundred •* NY- sr*and twenty-five, and five hundred and twenty-six of this
act apply to a verification made pursuant to this chapter,
and to the petition or other paper so verified, where they
can be so applied in substance, without regard to the form
of the proceeding.
g 2535. Where a provision of this chapter, or an order
made pursuant to such a provision, directs the publication
of a citation, notice, or other paper, or the service thereof
by publication, the publication must be made in a newspa
per published in the county. The surrogate may, also, in
his discretion, direct the publication thereof in any other
newspaper published in the same or another county, as he
deems proper, for the purpose of giving notice to the per
sons intended to be served or notified. If no newspaper is
published in the county, the citation, notice, or other paper,
must be published in the newspaper printed at Albany, in
which legal notices are required by law to be published.*
§ S536. In either of the following cases, a citation, no- § 1192, Coutice, or other paper, directed to be published by a provision eo1- Act.
of this chapter, or by an order made pursuant to such a ** Hun' 501'
provision, must, in addition to the publication thereof,
made as prescribed in the last section, be published in the
newspaper printed at Albany,* in which legal notices are
required by law to be published :
1. Where the special proceeding is instituted in the sur
rogate's court of the county of New York, or of the county
of Kings, or the order for publication is made by the sur
rogate of either of those counties.
2. Where the special proceeding relates to the estate of a
decedent, and the order directs the additional publication
therein. Such a direction may be given, in the discretion
of the surrogate, where the person upon whom the service
is to be made, or to whom notice is to be given, is not a
resident of the State. But where it affirmatively appears,
from the papers upon which the order is granted, or from
* See L. W ' the papers then on file in the surrogate's court, relating to
the same estate, that the property of the decedent, or, if the
special proceeding relates to a portion only of the property,
that the portion to which it relates, does not exceed two
thousand dollars in value, the order may, in the discretion
of the surrogate, direct the publication required by this
section to be made gratuitously ; in which case, that news
paper must make the publication without charge.
§ 2537. [Am'd 1882.] Where a statute requires the pay
ment of money into the surrogate's court, or the deposit of
a security, for the payment of money, with the surrogate,
the same must be paid to or deposited with the county
treasurer of the count}', to the credit of the fund, or of the
estate, or of the special proceeding ; unless the statute con
tains special directions for another disposition thereof. Eaeli
security, so deposited with the county treausurer, must be
held and disposed of by him, subject to the direction of the
surrogate's court ; except that he must, unless otherwise so
directed, collect the principal and interest secured thereby.
All money collected by, or paid to the county treasurer, as
prescribed by this section, must be held, managed, invested
and disposed of by him, in like manner as money paid into
the supreme court in an action pending therein. The reg
ulations, contained in the general rules of practice, as
specified in section seven hundred and forty-four of this act,
and the provisions of title third of chapter eight of this
act, apply to money paid to and securities deposited with
the county treasurer, as prescribed in this section ; except
that the surrogate's court exercises, with respect thereto, or
with respect to security, in which any of the money has
been invested, or upon which it has been loaned, the power
and authority conferred upon the supreme court by section
seven hundred and forty-seven of this act.
§ 2538. Except where a contrary intent is expressed in,
or plainly implied from the context of, a provision of this
chapter, the following portions of this act, to wit : title first,
and articles third and fourth of title sixth, of chapter eighth,
and articles first and second of title third of chapter ninth,
apply to surrogate's courts and to the proceedings therein,
so far as they (tan be applied to the substance and subjectmatter of a proceeding, without regard to its form.
p 2539. Upon the application of a party to a special n'cvr. Pro.
proceeding, and upon proof, by affidavit, to the satisfaction i;*
of the surrogate, that the testimony of a witness in his
county, who is so azed, sick, or infirm, as to be unable to
attend before him to be examined, U material and necessary
to the applicant, the surrogate must, where the special pro
ceeding was instituted to procure the probate or revocation
oi probate of a will, and, in any other case, may, in his
discretion, proceed to the place where the witness is, and
t.'iere, as in open court, take his examination. Such a
notice of the time and place of taking the examination, as
the surrogate prescribes, must be given, by the party applyinT therefore, to each other party, except a party who has
failed to appear as required by the citation. The surrogate
may also, in his discretion, require notice to be given to
any other person interested.
t$ 2540. [Am'd 1*81.] In a case specified in the last sec
tion, except that the witness is in another county, where
the witness is a subscribing witness to a will, if the surro
gate has good reason to believe that the witness cannot
attend before him, within a reasonable time, to which the
hearing may be adjourned, he may make an order, direct
ing that the witness be examined before the surrogate of
(he county in which he is, specifying a day, on or before
which a certified copy of the order must be delivered to the
latter surrogate ; and directing notice of the examination
to be given to such persons, and in such manner as he
thinks proper. A copy of the order, attested by the seal of
the surrogate's court, must be transmitted, by him, to the
surrogate designated in the order, together with the original
•will where the testimony relates to the execution of a writ
ten will. The latter surrogate must thereupon, on the day
specified in the order, or on another day to which he may
adjourn the examination, take the examination of the wit
ness, as if he possessed original jurisdiction of the special
proceeding. The examination, after it is reduced to writing,
and subscribed by the witness or otherwise duly authenti
cated, together with a statement of the proceedings upon
the execution of the order, must be certified by the surro
gate taking the examination, attested by the seal of his
court, and returned without delay, with the original will,
if any, to the surrogate who directed the examination, by
-whom all those papers must be filed. And in the other
cases named in said section two thousand five hundred and
thirty-nine he may appoint a referee to take the testimony
who shall report the same to the said surrogate. An exami
nation so taken has the same effect as if it was taken before
the latter surrogate.
§ 2541. The stenographer of a surrogate's court must,
„nder the direction of the surrogate, take full stenographic
notes of all proceedings, iti which oral proofs are given,
except where the surrogate otherwise directs. The testimony must be legibly written out at length by him, fro*

be filed in the surrogate's office.
r osia TAm'd 1881 1 The minutes of testimony wn§ 2543. \_Arn a "»i. i *
section, or taken by the
ten out as P«^WmtoUrt secuo
.^
surrogate or under ^direction wu authenticated by ^e

&^
*%
»£*£
ff S
clerk of the surrogate
§ court, as
tne case may^
maj
effect that they are correct.

the stenographer must be boundat tne
pe
^
county, in voumes of convenient s^ ana s P ^
» Stenographic mmutes and numberea
^
Upon the record of * decree madem wy.
^
{fl
the surrogate mi^st cause to ^mnute8] andtQ
ges
SSS^SSSSSS^&ms relating to the matter.

„, N.T. 61 g^UXrSf, beneficial to him or otherwise.
19
BL Week
iioKik.Y. 686.
M"\ V8,
S5£i*.
R2J-M
SiS.

surrogate,
W mm » --»a — lon
- - of ^
surrogate upon the trial
tnalDy
in„ a finding, or a refusal to find upon a q
inga case where such an exception may te taken to a ruu^
of the court upo., a ^^^An^first of chapter
of faCt>offthis
J?-"5 act
?, JtapTOTUioM
The"rStaof that article,tion
relatfc
tenth
m

« Han, 98 to the manner ^™ " £34 the exceptions, apply*
HiN.Y.iB'h the settlement of a case conmniug
purpose, the *
Such a trial Wore a "figjgZTnoLe^of an «<*,
cree is regarded as a, juog
■
fflce Tjpon 8Ucb >
tion may be filed in ™J*T?% hls office his decision it
trial, the surrogate must We in n_
^^ ^
writing, which must state, SJ*™"* may, upon the ■*
the conclusions of law fithCT party
y. *>
ti(m oi
tlementof a case, request a finding ^ r^ esW
fact,
a ruling
"P011^^^?
a finding or appea1
ruling, from
or to.
tion or
may
be taken
to 8U«-M.nnX,ngAn
refusal to find or rule *^nf7c0*rt bHngs up fc»
decree or an order of a **™gae
fa ^.^ ^
review, by eac^Jh°^*xcWXnisdulyTakeiiby the aPr
decision, w ^'tach an exception
§ 2546. [Am'd 1881, 1887, 18?9.] In a special pro
ceeding, other than one instituted for probate or revocation
of probate of a will, the surrogate may, in his discretion,
appoint a referee to take and report to the surrogate, the
evidence upon the facts, or upon a specific question of fact ;
to examine an account rendered ; to hear and determine all
questions, arising upon the settlement of such an account,
which the surrogate has power to determine ; and to make
a report thereon, subject, however, to confirmation or
modification by the surrogate. Such a referee has the same
" power, and is entitled to the same compensation as a referee
appointed by the supreme court, for the trial of an issue
of fact in an action ; and the provisions of this act, appli
cable to a reference by the supreme court, apply to a
reference, made as prescribed in this section, so far as they
can be applied in substance without regard to the form of
the proceeding. The surrogate of the county of New
York may, on the written consent of all the parties appear
ing in a probate case, appoint a referee, or may, in his dis
cretion, direct an assistant to take and report the testimony,
but without authority to pass upon the issues involved
therein.
§ 2547. [Am'd 1886.] The surrogate may, in his discre
tion, make an order directing the trial by jury, at a circuit
court to be held within the county, or in the county court
of the county, of any controverted question of fact arising
in a special proceeding for the disposition of the real prop
erty of a decedent, as prescribed in title fifth of this
chapter. The order must state distinctly and plainly each
question of fact to be tried, and it is the only authority
needed for the trial. The surrogate of the county of New
York may, in his discretion, make an order transferring to ,
the court of common pleas for the city and county of New
York any special proceeding for the probate of a will pend
ing before him, or in the court over which he presides, and
thereupon the issues of fact arising in such proceeding
slia'l be heard and determined by said court of common
pleas. The order transferring such proceeding is the only
authority necessary for the trial in the said court of com
mon pleas of such issues of fact. Such issues of fact shall
l>e tried by jury, and the verdict can be reviewed only by
n motion for a new trial upon the minutes of the judge.
Such motion must be made within ten days after the ver<1 ict is rendered. A new trial may be granted upon except ions, or because the verdict was rendered upon insufficient
e vidence, or is against the evidence or the weight of evi
dence. An appeal lies to the general term of the court of
common pleas from the order granting or refusing a new
trial ; and from the order of the general term affirming an
order refusing a new trial an appeal lies to the court of
jppeals. An appeal must be taken by serving written
aotice of appeal upon the clerk of the court, and upon the attorney for the respondent, within ten days after the ser
vice upon the attorney for the appellant of the order ap
pealed from, and of written notice of the entry thereof.
The appeal shall be heard upon a case containing all the
evidence ; and an error in the admission or the exclusion of
evidence, or in any other ruling or direction of the judge
upon the trial may, in the discretion of the court, be dis
regarded if substantial justice does not require that there
should be a new trial. If a motion to set aside the verdict
be not made, or if at the termination of the proceedings for
its review, the verdict is sustained, the court of common
pleas shall certify to the surrogate's court the verdict, which
shall be final and conclusive upon the parlies to the litiga
tion and their privies. Thereafter all proceedings relating
to the will and to the estate of the decedent shall be had in
the surrogate's court. The original will shall be returned
to the surrogate's court at the time the verdict is certified
thereto. The costs shall be taxed in the surrogate's court,
and shall be the same, and shall be awarded in the same
manner as if the proceedings had been heard by the
surrogate.
24 N. Y.
8 2548. [Am'd 1886.] A trial by jury pursuant to an
Stat* 'w?' or"er nmde in a proceeding for the disposition of the real
property of a decedent, made as prescribed in the last sec
tion, can be reviewed, in the first instance, only upon a
motion for a new trial. A new trial may be granted by the
surrogate or the court in which the trial took place, or, if
it took place at the circuit court, by the supreme court, in
a case where a new trial of specific questions of fact, tried
by a jury pursuant to an order for such trial, made in an
action, would be granted. The verdict of the jury must
be certified to the surrogate's court by the clerk of the
court in which the trial took place.
§ 2549. An appeal may be taken from an order, made
upon a motion for a new trial, as prescribed in the last sec
tion, as if the order had been made in an action, and with
like effect. Costs of such an appeal may be awarded by
the appellate court, as if the appeal was from an order or
decree of the surrogate's court.
§ 2550. The final determination of the rights of the
parties to a special proceeding in a surrogate's court, is
styled, indifferently, a final order, or a decree.
§ 2551. Each decree, whereby a'i account is judicially
settled, must conlain, in the body thereof, a summnry of
the account as settled ; or must ref r to such a summary,
which must be recorded in the same book, and is deemed
a part of the decree.
§ 2552. A decree, directing payment by an executor,
administrator, or testamentary trustee, to a creditor of, or
a person interested in, the estate or fund, or an order, permitting a judgment creditor to issue an execution against
an executor or administrator, is, except upon an appeal
therefrom, conclusive evidence that there are sufficient
assets in his hands, to satisfy the sum which the decree
directs him to pay, or for which the order permits the exe
cution to issue.
§ 2553. Where a decree directs the payment of a sum
of money into court, or to one or more persons therein desig
nated, the surrogate, or the clerk of the surrogate's court,
must, upon payment of his fees, furnish to any person ap
plying therefore, one or more transcripts, duly attested, stat
ing all the particulars, witli resp ct to the decree, which are
required by law to be entered in the clerk's docket book,
where a judgment for a sum of money is rendered in the
supreme court, so far as the provisions of law, directing
such entries, are appliea le to such a decree. Each ceunty
clerk, to whom such a transcript is presented, must, upon
payment of his fees, immediately file it, and docket the
decree in the appropriate docke book, kept in his office,
as prescribed by law for docketing a judgment of the
supreme court. The docketing of such a decree has the
same force and effect, the lien thereof may be suspended or
discharged, and the decree may be assigned or satisfied, as
if it was such a judgment.
§ 2554. A decree, directing the payment of a sum of
money into court, or to one or more parties, may be enforced by an execution against the property of the party
directed to make the payment. The execution must be
issued by the surrogate, or the clerk of the surrogate's
court, under the seal of the court, r.nd must be made, re
turnable to the court. In all other respects, the provisions
of this act, relating to an execution against the property of
a. Judgment debtor, issued upon a judgment of the supreme
court, and the proceedings to collect it, apply to an execu
tion issued from the surrogate's court, and the collection thereof, the decree being, for that purpose, regarded as i
judgment ; except that the proceedings prescribed in title
twelfth of chapter seventeenth of this act, if founded upon
such a decree, must be taken, as if the decree was a jud?
ment of Ihe county court, or, in the city of New York, ol
the court of common pleas.
§ S555. In either of the following cases, a decree of s
surr°gate'8 court, directing the payment of money, or requiring the performance of any other act, may be enforced,
by serving a certified copy thereof upon the party against
whom it is rendered, or the officer or person who is required
thereby, or by law, to obey it ; and if he refuses or willfully
neglects to obey it, by punishing him for a contempt of
court:
j -y^here it cannot be enforced by execution, as pre
scribed in the last section.
2. Where part of it cannot be so enforced by execution;
in which case, the part or parts, which cannot be so en
forced, may be enforced as prescribed in this section.
3. Where an execution, issued as prescribed in the last
section, to the sheriff of the surrogate's county, has been
returned by him wholly or partly unsatisfied.
4. Where the delinquent is an executor, administrator,
guardian, or testamentary trustee, and the decree relates to
the fund or estate, in which case the surrogate may enforce
the decree as prescribed in this section, either without issu
ing an execution, or after the return of an execution, as he
thinks proper.
If the delinquent has given an official bond, his imprison
ment, by virtue of proceedings to punish him for a con
tempt, as prescribed in this section, or a levy upon his prop
erty by virtue of an execution, issued as prescribed in the
last section, does not bar, suspend, or otherwise affect an
action against the sureties in his official bond.
§2556. A direction of a surrogate's court, made or
entered in writing, and not included in a decree, is styled
an order. It may be enforced in like manner as a similar
order, made by the supreme court in an action ; and the
costs are the same as upon such an order, and may be col
lected in like manner.
§2557. Except where special provision is otherwise
made by law, costs, awarded by a decree, made be made
payable by the party personally, or out of the estate, or
fund, as justice requires ; but costs, other than actual ex
penses, cannot be awarded to be paid out of an estate or
fund, which is less than one thousand dollars in amount or
value.
§ 2558. [Am'd 1881.] The award of costs in a decree,
i8 m the discretion of the surrogate, except in one of the
following cases :
1. Where special directions, respecting the award of costs, are contained in a judgment or order, made upon an
appeal from the surrogate's determination, or upon a
motion for a new trial of questions of fact tried by a jury ;
in either of which cases, costs must be awarded according
to those directions.
2. When a question of fact has been tried by a jury ; in
which case, unless it is within the foregoing subdivision, the
decree must award costs to the successful party.
3. When the decree is made upon a contested application for probate, or revocation of probate of a will, costs,
payable out of the estate or otherwise, shall not be awarded
to an unsuccessful contestant of the will, unless he is a
special guardian for an infant, appointed by the surrogate,
or is named as an executor in a paper propounded by him,
in good faith, as the last will of the decedent ; but the sur
rogate may order a copy of the stenographer's minutes to
be furnished to the contestant's counsel, and charge the
expense thereof to the estate if he shall be satisfied that the
contest is made in good faith.
§ 2559. Costs, when awarded by a decree, include all
disbursements of the party to whom they are awarded,
which might be taxed in the supreme court. The sum
allowed for costs must be fixed by the surrogate, and in
serted in the decree.
§ 2560. Where a question of fact has been tried by a
jury, the costs, awarded against the unsuccessful party, are
the same as the taxable costs of an action in the supreme
court. The costs of an appeal, where they are awarded in
a surrogate's court, are the same as if they were awarded in
the supreme court.
§ 2561. In a case other than one of those specified in
the last section, the surrogate, upon rendering a decree,
may, in his discretion, fix such a sum, to be allowed as
costs, in addition to the disbursements, as he deems reasonable, not exceeding, where there has not been a contest,
twenty-five dollars, or where there has been a contest, seventy
dollars ; and, in addition thereto, where a trial or hearing
upon the merits before the surrogate necessarily occupies
more than two days, ten dollars for each additional day ;
and where a motion for a new trial is made before the surrogate. if it is granted, seventy dollars ; if it is denied,
forty dollars.
§ 2562. lAm'dieSl.] In addition to the sum specified
in the last two sectious, the surrogate may, in his discretion,
allow to an executor, administrator, guardian, or testamentary trustee, upou a judicial settlement of his account or on
un intermediate accounting required by the surrogate, such
H, sum, as the surrogate deems reasonable, for his counsel
fees and other expenses, not exceeding ten dollars, for each
day occupied in the trial, and necessarily occupied in pre
paring his account for settlement, and "••—wise preparing
for the trial.
§ 2563. Upon the disposition of real property of a
decedent, as prescribed in title fifth of this chapter, the
executor, administrator or freeholder, disposing of the
property, must be allowed by the surrogate, out of the pro
ceeds of the sale brought into court, his expenses ; ai_d he
may be allowed, out of the proceeds, a reasonable sum for
his own services, not exceeding five dollars for each day,
actually and necessarily occupied by him in disposing of
the property, and such a further sum as the surrogate thinks
reasonable, for the neces >ary services of his attorney and
counsel therein.
§ 2564. The allowances, specified in the last section,
are in lieu of commissions.
§ 2565. An appraiser is entitled, in addition to his »ctual
expenses, to a sum, to be fixed by the surrogate, not exceed
ing five dollars for each day, actually and necessarily occu
pied by him, in making the appraisal or inventory. The
number of days' services, and the expenses, if any, must be
proved by the affidavit of the appraiser ; and the sums pay
able therefore taxed by the surrogate, and paid by the ex
ecutor or administrator.
1 Dem. 249.
§ 2566. Each other officer, including a referee, and
each witness, is entitled to the same fees, for his service;
and for travelling, as he is allowed for like services in the
supreme court.
§ 2567. A surrogate shall not charge or receive any fee,
except as follows :
1. Where in a case prescribed by law, or in any other
case, upon the application of a party, he goes to a place,
• other than his office, or the court room where he is required
to hold court, in order to take testimony, he may charge,
and receive to his own use, ten cents for each mile for going,
and the same sum for returning.
2. He must charge, and receive to the use of the county,
for a copy or a paper, ten cents for each folio, except where
the board cf supervisors have allowed his clerk to receive
fees for his own use ; and in that case, his clerk may charge
and receive the same fee.
§ 2568. Any party aggrieved may appeal from a decree i Dem. 227.
or an order of a surrogate's court, in a case prescribed in (his
article, except where tlie decree or order of which he com
plains was rendered or made upon his default.
§ 2569. A creditor of, or a person interested in, the
estate or fund affected by the decree or order, who was not
a party to the special proceeding, but was entitled by law to
be heard therein, upon his application ; or who has ac
quired, since the decree or order was made, a right or in
terest which would have entitled him to be heard, if it had
been previously acquired ; may intervene and appeal, as
prescribed in this article. The facts, which entitle such a
person to appeal, must be shown by an affidavit, which
must be filed, and a copy thereof served with the notice of
appeal.
§ 2570. An appeal to the supreme court may be taken
from a decree of a surrogate's court, or from an order
afecting a substantial right, made by a surrogate, or by a
surrogate's court, in a special proceeding pending in that
court, or after a decree in such a special proceeding.
§ 2571. An appeal, taken from a decree, brings up for
review each intermediate order, which is specified in the
notice of appeal, and necessarily affected the decree, and
■which has not already been reviewed by the appellate court,
upon a separate appeal taken from that order.
§ 2572. An appeal by a party must be taken within
thirty days after the service, upon the appellant, or upon
the attorney, if any, who appeared for him in the surrogate's
court, of a copy of the decree or order from which the
appeal is taken, and a written notice of ths entry thereof.
An appeal by a person who was not a party, taken as pre
scribed in this article, must be taken within three months
after the entry of the decree or order, unless the appellant's
title was acquired by means of an assignment or conveyance
from a party ; in which case, the appeal must be taken
ivi t bin the time limited for the taking thereof by the assignor
;>r grantor
§ 2573. Each party to the special proceeding in the 20 N. T.
mrrogate's court, and each person not a party, who has, or state Beg.
■laims to have, in the subject-matter of the decree or order,
t right or interest, which is directly affected thereby, and
v"t»ich appears upon the face of the papers presented in the
urrogate's court, or has become manifest in the course of
he proceedings taken therein, must be made a party to the appeal. A person not a party, but who must be made i
party, as prescribed in this section, may be brought in bv
an order of the appellate court, made after the appeal »
taken ; or the appeal may be dismissed on account of hi
absence. The appellate court may prescribe the mode of
bringing in such a person, by publication, by personal
service, or otherwise. But this section does not require «
person interested, but not a party, to be brought in, if he
was legally represented, or was duly cited in the court be
low.
§ 2574. An appeal must be taken by the service, within
the State, upon each party to the special proceeding, other
that the appellant, and upon the surrogate, or the clerk of
the surrogate's court, of a written notice, referring to the
decree or order appealed from, and stating that the appel
lant appeals from the same, or from a specified part thereof.
Where a party to the special proceeding in the court belo»
appeared in person, the notice of appeal must be person
ally served upon him ; where he appeared by an attorney, it
must be served personally, either upon him or upon his si
torney. Where a party, who was duly cited, did not appear
in the surrogate's court, notice of appeal must be served
upon him personally, if he can, with due diligence, be
found within the county ; otherwise it may be served bj
depositing it, indorsed with a direction to the party, with
the surrogate, or the clerk of the surrogate's court. Where
a person to be served cannot, with due diligence, be found,
to make personal service upon him, as prescribed in this
section, the surrogate, or a justice of the supreme court,
may, by order, prescribe such a mode of service as he
thinks proper ; and service in that mode has the same effect
as personal service.
§ 2675. The provisions of the following sections of this
act, to wit : sections one thousand two hundred and ninetyfive, one thousand two hundred and ninety-s«ven, one
thousand two hundred and ninety-eight, one thousand two
hundred and ninety-nine, one thousand three hundred and
three, and one thousand three hundred and five to one
thousand three hundred and nine, both inclusive, apply to
an appeal taken as prescribed in this article.
83 Hun, 200.
§ 2578. The appeal may be taken upon questions of
Id. 599.
jaw> or upc-u the facts, or upon both. If it is taken from .
decree rendered upon the trial, by the surrogate, of an issue
of fact, it must be heard upon a case, to be made and settled
by the surrogate, as prescribed by law, for the making and
settling of a case upon an appeal in an action.
11 Civ. Pro.
§ 2577. To render a notice of appeal effectual for anj
838,
purpose, except in a case specified in the next section, of
where it is specially prescribed by law, that security is doI
necessary to perfect the appeal, the appellant must give t
written undertaking, with at least two sureties, to the eflrt*
that the appellant will pay all costs and damages which ntf* be awarded against him upon the appeal, not exceeding two
hundred and fifty dollars.
§ 2578. [Am'd 1882.] Notice of appeal by an executor, 11 ciy. Pro.
administrator, testamentary trustee, guardian, or other per- 88sson appointed by the surrogate's court, from a decree di
recting him to pay or distribute money, or to deposit
money in a bank or trust company, or to deliver property ;
or by an executor or administrator from an order, granting
leave to issue an execution against him, as prescribed in
section eighteen hundied and twenty-five of this act, does
not stay the execution of the decree appealed from unless
the appellant gives an undertaking, with at least two sure
ties, in a sum therein specified, to the effect that if the de
cree or order, or any part thereof, is affirmed, or the appeal
is dismissed, the appellant will pay all costs and damages,
which miy be awared against him upon the appeal, and
will pay the sum so directed to be paid or collected, or as
the case requires will deposit or distribute the money or de
liver the property, so directed to be deposited, distributed,
or delivered, or the part thereof as to which the decree or
order is confirmed.
§ 8579. An appeal from a decree or an order, directing
the commitment of an executor, administrator, testamen
tary trustee, guardian, or other person appointed by the
surrogate's court, or an attorney or counsel employed there
in, for disobedience to a direction of the surrogate, or for
neglect of duty ; or directing the commitment of a person
refusing to obey a subpoena, or to testify, when required
according to law ; does not stay the execution of the decree
or order appealed from, unless the appellant gives an under
taking, with at least two sureties, in a sum therein specified,
to the effect that, if the decree or order appealed from, or
any part thereof, is affirmed, or the appeal isdismissed, the
appellant will, within twenty days after the affirmance or
dismissal, surrender himself, in obedience to the decree or
order, to the custody of the sheriff of the county, wherein
he was directed to be committed. If the undertaking is
broken, it may be prosecuted in the same manner, and with
the same effect, as an administrator's official bond ; and the
proceeds of the action must be paid or distributed, as di
rected by the surrogate, to or am on? the persons aggrieved,
to the extent of the pecuniary injuries sustained by them ;
and the balance, if any, must be paid into the county
treasury.
§ 2580. The sum specified in an undertaking, executed
as prescribed in either of the last two sections, must, where
the appeal is taken from a decree directing the payment,
depositing, or distribution of money, be not less than twice
the sum directed to be pui;i, deposited, or distributed.
Where the appeal is taken from an order granting leave to
issue an execution, it must be not less than twice the sum,
to collect which the execution may issue. In every other case, it must be fixed by the surrogate, or by a judge of
the nppellate court, who may require proof, by affidavit,
of the value of any property, or of such other facts as he
deems proper. The respondent may apply to the appellate
court, upon notice, for an order requiring the appellant to
increase the sum so fixed. If such an order is granted, and
the appellant makes default in giving the new undertaking,
the appeal maj be dismissed or the stay dissolved, as the
case requires.
V3 Abb. N.
§ 2581. An undertaking, given as prescribed in the last
C. 428.
four sections, must be to the people of the State ; must
contain the name and residence of each of the sureties
thereto ; must be approved by the surrogate or a judge of
the appellate court ; and must be filed in the surrogate's
office. Except as otherwise specially prescribed, the filing
of a proper undertaking, and service of the notice of appeal,
perfect the appeal. The surrogate may, at any time, in
his discretion, make an order, authorizing any person ag
grieved to bring an action upon the undertaking, in his
own name, or in the name of the people. Where it is
brought in the name of the people, the damages collected
must be paid over to the surrogate, and distributed by him,
as justice requires,
4Dem. 450.
§2582. [Am'd 1881.] An appeal from a decree of a
5 id. 328.
surrogate, admitting a will to probate, or granting letters
testamentary, or letters of administration, does not stay the
issuing of letters, where, in the opinion of the surrogate,
manifested by an order, the preservation of the estate
requires that the letters should issue. Letters so issued
confer upon the person named therein all the powers and
authority, and subject him to all the duties and liabilities
of an executor or administrator in an ordinary case, except
that they do not confer power to sell real property by
virtue of a provision in the will, or to pay or to satisfy a
legacy, or distribute the unbequeathed property of the
decedent, until after the final termination of the appeal;
and in case letters shall have been issued before such appeal
the executor or administrator, on a like order of the sur
rogate, may exercise the powers and authority, subject to
the duties, liabilities and exceptions above provided.
§ 2583. An appeal from a decree revoking the probate
of a will, or revoking letters testamentary, Tetters of ad
ministration, or letters of guardianship ; or from a decree
or an order, suspending an executor, administrator, or
guardian, or removing or suspending a testamentary trustee,
or a freeholder, appointed to execute a decree, as pre
scribed in title fifth of this chapter, or appointing a temp
orary administrator, or an appraiser of personal property.
does not stay the execution of the decree or order appealed
from.
§ 2584. Except as otherwise expressly prescribed in thi?
article, a perfected appeal has the effect, as a stay of the proceedings to enforce the decree or order appealed from,
prescribed in section one thousand three hundered and ten
of this act, with respect to a perfected appeal from a
judgment.
§ 2585. In the supreme court, an appeal from a decree
or an order of a surrogate's court must be heard, the judg
ment, or an order made thereupon, must be entered, and
the papers must be filed, in the same manner, and the effect
of the judgment, with respect to the proceedings in the
surrogate's court, is the same, as where an appeal is taken
to the supreme court, from a final judgment or an order of
an inferior court, as prescribed in title third of chapter
twelfth of this act.
§ 2586. Where an appeal is taken upon the facts, the
appellate court has the same power to decide the questions
of fact, which the surrogate had ; and it may, in its discre
tion, receive further testimony or documentary evidence,
and appoint a referee.
§ 2587. The appellate court may reverse, affirm, or
modify the decree or order appealed from, and each inter
mediate order, specified in the notice of appeal, which it is
authorized by law to review, and as to any or all of the
parties ; and it may, if necessary or proper, grant a new
trial or hearing. The decree or order appealed from may
be enforced, or restitution may be awarded, as the case re
quires, as prescribed in title first of chapter twelfth of this
act, with respect to an appeal from a judgment.
§ 2588. Where the reversal of modification of a decree
by the appellate court is founded upon a question of fact,
the appellate court must, if the appeal was taken from a
decree made upon a petition to admit a will to probate, or
to revoke the probate of a will, make an order, directing
the trial, by a jury, of the material questions of fact, arising
upon the issues between the parties. Such an order must
state, distinctly and plainly, the questions of fact to be
tried ; and must direct the trial to take place, either in a
circuit court, specified in the order ; or in the county court
of the county of the surrogate ; or, in the city and county
of New York, in the court of common pleas. After the
trial, a new trial may be granted, as proscribed in section
two thousand five hundred aiid forty-eight of this act.
§ 2589. The appellate court may award to the successful party the cost of the appeal ; or it may direct that they
abide the event of a new trial, or of the subsequent pro
ceedings in the surrogate's court. Iu either case, the costs
may be made payable out of the estate or fund, or person
ally by the unsuccessful party, as directed by the appel
late court ; or, if such a direction is not given, as directed
by the surrogate.
§ 8590. Letters testamentary, letters of adminstration,
and letters of guardianship must be in the name of the
people of the Siotc. Where they are granted by a surro
gate, or by an officor or person appointed by the board of
supervisors, temporarily acting as surrogate, they must be
tested in the name of the officer granting them, signed by
him, or by the clerk of the surragate's court, and sealed
with the seal of the surrogate's court. Where they are
issued out of another court, they must be tested in the
name of the judge holding the court, signed by the clerk
thereof, and sealed with ils seal.
§ 2591. Subject to the provisions of the next section,
regulating the priority among different letters, letters testa
mentary, letters of administration, and letters of guardian
ship, granted by a court or officer, having jurisdiction to
grant them, as prescribed in this chapter, are conclusive
evidence of the authority of the persons to whom they are
granted, until the decree granting them is reversed upon
appeal, or the letters are revoked, as prescribed in this
chapter.
§ 2592. The person or persons, to whom letters testa
mentary, or letters of administration are first issued, from
a surrogate's court having jurisdiction to issue them, as
prescribed in article first of title first of this chapter, have
sole and exclusive authority, as executors or administrators,
pursuant to the letters, until the letters are revoked, as
prescribed by law ; and they are entitled to demand and
recover from any person, to whom letters upon the same estate are afterwards issued, by any other surrogate's court,
the decedent's properly in his hand". But the acts of a
person, to whom letters were afterwards issued, done in
good faith, before notice of the letters first issued, are
valid ; and an action or special proceeding, commenced by
him, may be continued by and in the name of the person
or persons to whom the letters were first issued.
§ 2593. Where it is prescribed by law, thai an act,
with respect to the estate of a decedent, must or may be
done within a specified time after letters tct&mentary or
letters of administration are issued, and successive or sup
plementary letters are is>ued upon the same estate, the
time so specified must be reckoned from the issuing of the
first letters, except in a case where it u otherwise specially
prescribed by law ; or where the first or any subsequent
letters are revoked, as prescribed in section two thousand
six hundred and eighty-four of this act, or by reason of the
want of power in the surrogate's court, to issue the same,
for any cause.
§ 2594. The official oath or affirmation of an executor,
administrator, or guardian, to the effect tliat he will well,
faithfully, and honestly discharge the duties of his office,
describing it, must be filed with the surrogate, before let
ters are issued to him. The oath may be taken before any
officer, within or without the State, who is authorized to
take an affidavit, to be used in the supreme court. Where
it is taken without the State, it must \xi certified as required
by law, with respect to an affidavit to be used in the su
preme court.
§ 2595. [Am'd 1885.] In a case where a bond, or 'new
sureties to a bond, may be required by a surrogate from an
executor, administrator, guardian, or other trustee, if the
value of the estate or fund is so great that the surrogate
deems it expedient to require security in the full amount
prescribed by law, he may direct that any securities for
the payment of money belonging to the estate or fund
be deposited with him, to be delivered to the county
treasurer, or be deposited subject to the order of the trus
tee, countersigned by the surrogate, with a trust com
pany duly authorized by law to receive the same.
After such a deposit has been made, the surrogate may fix
the amount of the bond with respect to the value of the
remainder only of the estate or fund. A security thus
deposited shall not be withdrawn from the custo iy of the
county treasurer or trust company, and no person other
;han the county treasurer or the proper officer of the trust
company shall receive or collect any of the principal or
interest secured thereby without the special order of the
surrogate entered in the appropriate book. Such an order
can be made in favor of the trustee appointed, only where
an additional bond has been given by him, or upon proof
that the estate or fund lias been bo reduced by paymenu or otherwise, that the penalty of the bond originally given
will be sufficient in amount to satisfy the provisions of law
relating to the penalty thereof, if the security so withdrawn
is also reckoned in the estate or fund.
§ 2596. A person to whom letters are issued, is liable
for money or other personal property of the estate, which
was in his hands, or under his control, when his letters
were issued ; in whatever capacity it was received by him,
or came under his control. Where it was received by him,
or came under his coutrol, by virtue of letters previously
issued to him, in the same or another capacity, an action
to recover the money, or damages for failure to deliver the
property, may be maintained upon both official bonds ; but,
as between the sureties upon the official bond given upon
the prior letters, and those upon the official bond given
upon the subsequent letters, the latter are liable over to the
former.
§ 2597. Any person, interested in the estate or fund,
may present to the surrogate's court a written petition, duly
verified, setting forth that a surety in a bond, taken as
prescribed in this chapter, is insufficient, or has removed,
or is about to remove, from the State, or that the bond is
inadequate in amount ; and praying that the principal in
the bond may be required to give a new bond, in a larger
penalty, or new or additional sureties, as the case requires ;
or, in default thereof, that he may be removed from his
office, and that letters issued to him may be revoked.
Where the bond so taken is that of a guardian, the petition
may also be presented by any relative of the infant. When
the bond is that of an executor or administrator, the petition
may also be presented by any creditor of the decedent. If
it appears to the surrogate, that there is reason to believe
that the allegations of the petition are true, he must cite
the principal in the bond to show cause, why the prayer
of the petition should not be granted.
§ 25 9 8. Upon the return of a citation, issued as prescribed
in the last section, the surrogate must hear the allegations
and proofs of the parties ; and if the objections, or any of
them, are found to be valid, he must make an order, re
quiring the principal in the bond to give new or additional
sureties, or a new bond in a larger penalty, as the case
requires, within such a reasonable time, not exceeding five
days, as the surrogate fixes ; and directing that, in default
thereof, his letters be revoked.
§ 2699. If a bond with new or additional sureties, or
in a larger penalty, is approved and filed in the surrogate's
office, as required by such an order, the surrogate must
make a decree, dismissing the proceedings, upon such terms,
as to costs, as justice requires ; otherwise, he must make a
decree, removing the delinquent from office, and revoking
the letters issued to him.
§ 2600. Any or all of the sureties in a bond, taken as
prescribed in this chapter, may present a petition to the
surrogates's court, praying to he released from responsibility,
on account of any future breach of the condition of the
bond ; and that the principal in the bond may be cited to
show cause, why he should not give new sureties. The
surrogate must thereupon issue a citation accordingly.
§ 2601. Upon the return of a citation, issued as pre
scribed in the last section, if the principal in the bond files
in the surrogate's office a bond in the usual form, with new
sureties to the satisfaction of the surrogate, then or within
such a reasonable time, not exceeding five days, as the
surrogate fixes, the surrogate must make a decree, releasing
the petitioner from liability upon the bond for any subse
quent act or default of the principal; otherwise he must
make a decree, revoking the delinquent's letters.
§ 2602. Where two or more co-executors or co-administrators disagree, respecting the custody of money or other
property of the estate ; or two or more testamentary
rustees or guardians of the property disagree, respecting
he custody of money or other property, belonging to a
und or an estate which is committed to their joint charge ;
he surrogate may, upon the application of either of them,
r of a creditor or person interested in the estate, and proof,
y affidavit, of the facts, make an order, requiring them to
iow cause, why the surrogate should not give directions
the premises. Upon the return of the order, the surgate may, in his discretion, make an order, directing
at any property of the estate or fund be deposited in a
ce place, in the joint custody of the executors, adminis
ters, guardians, or testamentary trustees, as the case reires, or subject to their joint order; or that the money
the estate be deposited in a specified safe bank or trust
npany, to their joint credit, and to be drawn out upon
ir joint order. Disobedience to such a direction may be
lished as a contempt of the court.
2603. Upon the entry of a decree, made as prescribed
his chapter, revoking letters, issued by a surrogate's
-t to an executor, administrator, or guardian, his powers
e. The decree may, in the discretion of the surrogate,
ire him to account for all money and other property
ved by him ; and to pay and deliver over all money
other property in his hands into the surrogate's court,
his successor in office, or to such other person as is
jrized by law to receive the same ; or it may be made
>ut prejudice to an action or special proceeding for
jurpose, then pending, or thereafter to be brought.
revocation does not affect the validity of any act,
a the p ewers conferred by law upon the executor,
listrator, or guardian, done by him before the service
citation, -where the other party acted in good faith;
le after the service of the citation, and before entry of the decree, where his powers with respect thereto were
not suspended by service of the citation, or where the sur
Togale, in a case prescribed bylaw, permitted him to do
the same, notv. ithstanding the pendency of the special proneeding against him ; and he is not liable for such an act,
done by him in good faith,
8 2604. The last section does not affect the liability of a person, to
whom money or other property has been pa;d or delivered, as husband,
wife, next of kin, or legatee, to respond to the person lawfully entitled
thereto, where letters are revoked, because a snpposed decedent is
living ; or becaupe a will is discovered, after admin iPtrntiort has been
granted in a case of supposed intestacy, or revoking a prior will, upon
which letters were gianted.

4Eedf.S99.
U%^6
1 Bern! 89.
24 Week.
s's;^.
3Demn'23B'
44 Hun, 457.
,r' N- Ye 442]
119N.Y.427.
Id. 642.

§ 2305. Where letters have been revoked by a decree of
the surrogate's court , that court has, except in a case where it
is otherwise specially prescribed by law, the same power to
appoint a successor to the person whose powers have ceased,
as if the leiters had not been issued. The successor may
complete the execution of the trust committed to his pre
decessor ; he may continue, in his own name, a civil action
or special proceeding, pending in favor of his predecessor ;
and he may enforce a judgment, order, or decree, in favor
of the latter. The surrogate's court has the same jurisdic
tion, upon the petition of the successor, or of a remaining
executor, administrator, guardian or trustee, to compel the
person whose letters have been revoked, to account for, or
deliver over money or other property, and to settle his ac
count, which it would have upon the petition of a creditor
or person interested in the estate, if the term of office, con
ferred by the letters, had expired by its own limitation.
§ 2606. [Am'd 1884, 1891, amendment to take tiioct
September 1, 1891.] Where an executor, administrator,
guardian or tcsiamentary trustee dies, the surrogate's court
has the sa:ne jurisdiction, upon the petition of his succes
so].; or 0f a surviving executor, administrator or guardian,
or 0I a creditor, or person interested in the estate, or of a
guardian's ward, to compel the executor or administrator
of the decedent to account, which it would have against
the decedent if his letteis have been revoked by a surrogate's decree. And an executor or administrator of a deceased executor, administrator, guardian or testamentary
trustee may voluntarily account for any of the trust prop
erty which has come to his possession, and upon his petition
such successor or surviving executor, administrator or
guardian or other necessary party shall be cited and re
quired to attend such settlement. With respect to the lia
bility of the sureties in, and for the purpose of maintaining
an action upon the decedent's official bond, a decree against
his executor or administrator, rendered upon such an ac
counting, has the same effect as if an execution issued upon
a surrogate's decree against the property of decedent had
been returned unsatisfied during decedent's lifetime. So far
as concerns the executor or administrator of decedent, such
a decree is not within the provisions of section twenty-five
hundred and fifty-two of this act. The surrogate's court has also jurisdiction to compel the executor or administrator
at any time to deliver over any of the trust property which
has come to his possession or is under his control, and if 35N. y.
the same is delivered over after a decree, the court must State Bop.
allow each credit upon the decree as justice requires.
***•
\ 2607. Where an exe?ution, issued upon a surrOL'atc's decree,
against the property of an executor, administrator, testamentary trusi.ee,
or guardian, has been returned wholly or partly unsatisfied, an action,
to recover the sum remaining uncollected, may be maintained upon
his official bond, by and in the name ot the person in whose favor the
decree was made. Jf the principal debtor is a resident of the State, the
execution must have bjen issued to the county where he resides.

§2608. Where letters have been revoked by a decree 48 Hun, 830.
of the surrogate's court, the successor of the executor, ad
ministrator, or guardian, whose letters are so revoked, may
naintain an action upon his predecessor's official bond, in
vhich he may recover any money, or the full value of any
'ther property, received by the principal in the bond, and
ot duly administered by him ; and to the full extent of
ny injury, sustained by the estate of the decedent or of the
lfant, as the case may be, by any act or omission of the
rincipal. The money, recovered in such an action, is retrded as part of the estate in the hands of the plaintifff,
id must be distributed or otherwise disposed of accordgly ; except that a recovery for an act or omission, reeeting a right of actiou, or other property, appropriated
law for the benefit of the husband, wife, family, or next
kin of a decedent, or disposed of by a will for the beneof any person, is for the benefit of the person or persons
entitled thereto.
^ 2609. Where the letters of an executor or adminis- ssn. y.
tor have been so revoked, and no successor is appointed, state Rep.
229.
y person aggrieved may, upon obtaining an order from the
rogate, granting him leave so to do, maintain an action
>n the official bond of the executor or administrator, in
alf of himself and all others interested : in which the
intiff may recover any money, or the full value of any
3i- property, received by the principal in the bond, and
duly administered by him, and to the full extent of any
iry, sustained by the estate of the decedent, by any act
mission of the principal. The money recovered in such
ction must 1 e paid, by the sheriff or other officer who
sets it into the surrogate's court; and the surrogate
t distribute it to the creditors or other persons entitled
3to. The proceedings for such a distribution are the
1 as prescribed in title fifth of this chapter, for the disition of the proceeds of a sale of real property.
2 6 1 0. The provisions of this article apply to an executdministrator, or guardian, to whom letters have been
d, and to a testamentary trustee whose trust has been
ed, before this chapter takes effect ; except that it does
ffect, in rny manner, the liability of the sureties in a
, executed before this chapter takes effect.
§ 2611. A will of real or personal properly, executed as
prescribed by the laws of the State, or a will of personal
property, executed without the State, and within the United
States, the dominion of Canada, or the Kingdom of Great
Britian and Ireland, as prescribed by the laws of the state
or country where it is or was executed, or a will of personal
property, executed by a person not a resident of the State,
according to the laws of the testator's residence, may be
proved as prescribed in this article.
§ 8612. The right to have a win admitted to probate,
the validity of the execution, thereof, or the validity or con
struction of »nv provision contained therein, is not affected
by a change of" file testator's residence made since the exe
cution of the will.
£ 2613. The last two sections apply only to a will exe
cuted bj a person, dying after the eleventh day of April, in
the year 1S76 ; and they do not invalidate a will, executed
before that date, which would have been valid but for the
enactment of those sections, except where such a will is
revoked or altered by a will, which they render valid, or
12614. A person designated ma will as executor, devisee, or tentee, c* any other person interested m the estate, or a creditor of the decedent, may present, to the aojro^ate'a court havim: jurisdiction, a
written petition, duly verified, describing: tae will, setting forth the
facts, upon which the jurisdiction of the court to grant probate thereof
depends, and praying that the wjl may be proved, and th-u the persona,
fP'-cified in the next section, may be cited to lttend the probate thereof.
I'pon the presentatiovi of sach a petition, the surrogate mu; issue a
ci.ation accordingly.
I 26 1 5. LAm'd r*9t, amendment to take effect September t. 18M.1
The following persons must be cited upon a petition preseuted. as pre
scribed by the fast section :
1. If the will relates exclusively to real property, the husband, if any,
all the heirs of the testator, all persons in Ijeing who would take an in
terest in any portion of such real property, under the provisio:is of said
will, and the executor or executors, trustee or trustees named t'erUti.
2. IT the will relates exclusively to personal property, the husband or
wife, if any, ail the next of kin of the testator, all persons in b'.ni; who
iv juld take an interest in any portion of such personal property, under
the provisions of said will, and the executor or executors, trustee or
trustees named or described therein.
3. If the w:ll relates to both real and personal property, the husband
>r wife, if any, all the heirs and next of kin of ttie testator, all persona
n being who woala take an interest in any portion of said real or perional property, and the executor or executors, trustee or t rustees named
>r described therein.
§ S616. The citation must set forth the name of the
lecedent, and of the person by whom the will is proounded ; and it must state whether the will relates, or
urports to relate, exclusively to real property, or personal
roperty, or to both.
Where the will propounded was
uncupative, that fact must be stated in the citation.
There the surrogate is unable to ascertain to his eatisfac>n, whether the decedent left, surviving him, any person,
ho would be entitled to the property affected by the
ill, if the decedent had died intestate, the citation must
directed, where the will relates to real property, to the
tomey-General ; where it relates to personal property, to
3 public administrator, who would have been entitled to
ministration, if the decedent had died intestate.
g 26 17. Any person, although not cited, who is named 5Rcdf. sad.
a devisee or legatee, in the will propounded, or as ?.,)*41,- 1"u
scutor, trustee, devisee, or legatee, in any other paper,
rportinjr, to be a will of the decedent, or who is otherwise interested in sustaining or defeating the will, may appear,
and, at his election, support or oppose the application. A
person so appearing becomes a party to Ihe special proceed
ing. But this section does not affect a right or interest of
such a person, unless he so becomes a party.
§2618. Upon the return of the citation, the surrogate
must cause the witnesses to be examined before him. The
proofs must be reduced to writing. Before a written will
is admitted to probate, two, at least, of the subscribing
witnesses must be produced and examined, if so many are
within the State, and competent and able to testify. Before
a nuncupative will is admitted to probate, its execution
and the tenor thereof must be proved by at least two wit
nesses. Any party, who contests the probate of the will,
may, by a notice filed with the surrogate at any time before
the proofs are closed, require the examination of all the
subscribing witnesses to a' written will, or of any other
witness, whose testimony the surrogate is satisfied may be
material ; in which case, all such witnesses, who are within
the State, and competent and able to testify, must be so
examined.
£2619. [Am'd 1882.] The death, absence from the
state, lunacy, or other incompetency of a witness, required
to be examined as prescribed in this or the last section, or
proof that such witnesses cannot, after due diligence, be found
within the state or elsewhere, must be shown by affidavit,
or other competent evidence, to the satisfaction of thesurrogate, before dispensing with his testimony. Where a wit
ness, being within the state, is disabled from attending by
reason of age, sickness or infirmity, his disability must be
shown in like manner ; and in that case, the testimony of
the witness, where it is required, and he is able to testify,
must be taken in the manner, prescribed by law, and pro
duced before the surrogate as a part of the proofs.
§ 2620. [Am'd 1888.] If all the subscribing witnesses
to a written will are, or if a subscribing witness, whose
testimony is required, is dead, or incompetant by reason of
lunacy or otherwise, to testify, or unable to testify ; or if
such a subscribing witness is absent from the State ; or
if such a subscribing witness has forgotten the occur
rence, or testifies against the execution of the will ; the will
may nevertheless be established, upon proof of the hand
writing of the testator, and of the subscribing witnesses,
and also of such other circumstances as would be sufficient
to prove the will upon the trial of an action. Where a sub
scribing witness is absent from the State, upon application
of either party, the surrogate shall cause the testimony of
such witness to be taken by commission, when it is made to
appear that by due diligence such testimony may be
obtained. Where a written will is proved as prescribed in
this section, it must be filed and remain in the surrogate's
office. AVhere in any matter before the suirogate or in a surrogate's court the testimony of any witness shall be
taken by or on commission, the same, together with the
commission on which it is taken, shall be duly filed in the
office of the surrogate but need not be recorded. The testi
mony, or other proceeding duly taken to be used before the
surrogate or surrogate's court, by a stenographer, shall be
filed and need not be recorded.
§ 8681. A lost or destroyed will can be admitted to
probate in a surrogate's court ; but only in a case, where a
judgment establishing the will could be rendered by the
supreme court, as prescribed in section one thousand eight
hundred and sixty-five of this act.
§ 8682. Before admitting a will to probate, the surrogate must inquire particularly into all the facts and circum
stances, and must be satisfied of the genuineness of the will,
and the validity of its execution. Before admitting a written
will to probate, the surrogate may, in his discretion, re
quire proof of the circumstances attending the execution,
the delivery, and the possession thereof, or any of them, to be
made by the affidavit, or the testimony, at the hearing, of
the person who received the will from the testator, if he can
be produced, and, also, of the person presenting it for
probate.
§ 2683. If it appears to the surrogate that the will was
duly executed ; and that the testator, at the time of execuling it, was in all respects competent to make a will, and
not under restraint ; it must be admitted to probate, as a
will valid to pass real property, or personal property, or
both, as the surrogate determines, and the petition and
citation require, and must be recorded accordingly. The
decree admitting it to probate must state whether the pro
bate was or was not contested.
§ 2624. But if a party expressly puts in issue, before
the surrogate, the validity, construction, or effect of any
disposition of personal property, contained in the will of a
resident of the State, executed within the State, the sur
rogate must determine the question, upon rendering a de
cree ; unless the decree refuses to admit the will to probate,
by reason of a failure to prove any of the matters specified
in the last section.
§ 2685. "Where the surrogate decides against the suf
ficiency of the proof, or against the validity of a will, or
upon the construction, validity, or legal effect of any
provision thereof, he must make a decree accordingly ;
and, if required by either party, he must enter in the min
utes the grounds of his decision.
§2626. [4»j'<Z1882.] A decree admittingto probate awill
of personal property made as prescribed in this article, is
conclusive, as an adjucation, upon all the questions deter
mined by the surrogate pursuant to this article, until it is
reversed upon appeal, or revoked by the surrogate ; except that a determination, made under section twenty-six
hundred and twenty-four of this act, is conclusive only
upon the petitioner, and each party who was duly cited,
or appeared ; and every person claiming from, through or
under either of them.
§ 8627. [Am d 1881.] A decree, admitting to probate a
will of real property, made as prescribed In this article,
establishes, presumptively only, all the matters determined
by the surrogate, pursuant to this article, as against a
party who was duly cited, or a person claimimg from,
through, or under him; or upon the trial of an action, or
the hearing of a special proceeding, in which a controversy
arises concerning a will, or where the decree is produced in
evidence, in favor of or against a person, or in a case
specified in this section, the testimony taken in the special
proceeding, wherein it was made, may be read in evidence,
with the same force and effect as if it was taken upon the
trial of the action, or the hearing of the special proceeding,
wherein the decree is so produced.
§ 2628. The title of a purchaser in good faith and for
a valuable consideration, from the heir of a person who died
seized of real property, shall, not be affected by a devise
of the property made by the latter, unless within four years
after the testator's death, the will devising the same is either
admitted to probate and recorded as a will of real property
in the office of the surrogate having jurisdiction, or estab
lished by the final judgment of a court of competent juris
diction of the State, in an action brought for that purpose.
But if, at the time of the testator's death, the devisee is
either within the age of twenty-one years, or insane, or
imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon con
viction of a criminal offense, for a term less than for life ;
or without the State ; or, if the will was concealed by one
or more of the heirs of the testator, the limitation created
by this section does not begin until after the expiiation of one
year from the removal of such a disability, or the delivery
of the will to the devisee or his representative, or to the
proper surrogate.
)Hnn,?20.
§ 2629. [Am'd 1882.] The surrogate must cause to be
indorsed upon, or annexed to the original will admitted to
probate, or the exemplified copy, or statement of the tenor
of a will, which was admitted without production of an
original written will, a certificate, under his hand, or the
hand of the clerk of his court, and his seal of office, stating
that it has, upon due proof, been admitted to probate, as a
will valid to pass real or personal property, or both, as the
case may be. The will, or the copy or statement, so au
thenticated, the record thereof, or an exemplified copy of
the record, may be read in evidence, as proof of the origi
nal will, or of the contents or tenor thereof, without further
evidence, and with the effect specified in the last three sec
tions.
§ 2630. A transcript of a will of real property, proved
and recorded in any court of the State, of competent jurindiction, and of all the notices, process, and proofs relating
to the same, must, when duly exemplified, be recorded,
upon the request of any person interested therein, in tho
surrogate's court of any county, in which real property of
the testator is situated.
§ 2631. The exemplification of the record of a will,
proved before the judge of the former court of probates,
and recorded in his office before the first day of January, in
the year 178n, certified under the seal of the officer having
custody of the record, mu^t be admitted in evidence in any
case, after it has been made to appear that diligent and
fruitless search has been made for the original will.
§2632. [Am'd 1881.] An exemplified copy of the last
will and testament of any deceased person, which has been
admitted to probate, whether as a will of real or personal
property, or of both, and recorded in the office of the sur
rogate in any county of this State, before the first day of
January, in the year one thousand eight hundred and forty,
shall be admitted in evidence in any of the courts of this
Stale, without the proofs and examination taken on the
probate thereof, and whether such proofs shall have been
recorded or not, with like effect as if the original of such
will had been produced and proven in such court. And the
recording of such will shall be evidence that the same was
duly admitted to probate. The exemplification of the
record of a will which has, before the first day of January,
in the year one thousand eight hundred and forty, been
proved before the surrogate or judge of probate, or other
officer exercising the like jurisdiction of another State must,
when certified by the officer having by law, when the certi
ficate was made, custody of the record, be admitted in
evidence as if the original will was produced and proved.
§ 2633. [Am'd 1881,1882.] Awillof real property, which
has been, at any time, either before or after this chapter
takes effect, duly proved in the supreme court, or the court
of chancery or before a surrogate of the State with the certi
ficate of proof thereof annexed thereto, or endorsed thereon,
or an exemplified copy thereof, may be recorded in the
office of the clerk or the register, as the case requires, of
any county in the State, in the same manner as a deed of
real property. Where the will relates to real property, the
executor, or administrator with the will annexed, must cause
the same, or an exemplified copy thereof, to be so recorded,
in each county where real property of the testator is situated,
within twenty days after letters are issued to him. An
exemplification of the record of such a will, from any sur
rogate's or other office wlicre the same has been so recorded,
either before or after this chapter takes effect, may be in
like manner recorded in the office of the clerk or register of
any county. Such record or an exemplification, or an cxeniplification of the record thereof, must be received in
evidence, as if the original will was produced and proved.
£ 2634. Upon recording a will or exemplification, as
prescribed in the last section, the clerk or register must
index it in the same books, and substantially in the same
manner, as if it was a deed recorded in his office, and he is
entitled to receive the same fees therefore, as for recording
a deed. An executor, or administrator with the will
annexed, who causes such a record to be made, must be
allowed, in his account, the fees paid by him therefore.
§ 2635. Except where special provision is otherwise
made by law, a written will, after it has been proved and
recorded, must be retained by the surrogate, until the ex
piration of one year after it has been recorded, and, if a
petition for the revocation of probate thereof is then filed,
until a decree is made thereupon. It must then be re
turned, upon demand, to the person who delivered it,
unless he is dead, or a lunatic, or has removed from the
State ; in which case, it m;iy, in the discretion of the sur
rogate, be delivered to auy pere-in named therein as devisee,
or to an heir or assignee of a devisee ; or, if it relates only
to personal property, to the executor, or administrator with
the will annexed, or to a legatee.
§ 2636. Where a will, which is admitted to probate,
names one or more persons to be executor or executors
thereof, upon a contingency, the surrogate must inquire
into the facts, and, if the contingency has happened, that
fact must be recited in the decree. Immediately after a
will has been admitted, to probate, the person or persons
named therein as executors, who are competent by law to
serve, and who appear and qualify, are entitled to letters
testamentary thereupon ; unless, before the letters are
granted, a creditor of the decedent, or a person interested
in the estate, files an affidavit, specifying his demand, or
how he is interested, and either setting forth specifically
one or more legal objections to granting the letters to one
or more of the executors, or stating that he is advised and
believes that there are such objections, and that he intends
to file a specific statement of the same. Where such an af
fidavit is filed, the surrogate must stay the granting of let
ters, at least thirty days, or until the matter is sooner
disposed of. A specification or statement of an objection,
made as prescribed in this section, must be verified by the
oath of the objector, or his attorney, to the effect that he
believes it to be true.
§ 2637. The surrogate must inquire into an objection,
filed as prescribed in the last section ; and, for that purpose,
he may receive proof, by affidavit or otherwise, in his dis
cretion. If it appears that there is a legal and sufficient
objection to any person, named as executor in the will,
letters shall not be issued to him, except as prescribed in
the next section.
§ 2638. In either of the following cases, a person * H«if- 853.
named as executor in a will, may entitle himself to letters Jjf "
'
testamentary thereupon, by giving a bond as prescribed by
law, although an objection against him bus been established
to the satisfaction of the surrogate :
1. Where the objection is. that his circumstances are
such, that they do not afford adequate security to the cre
ditors, or persons interested in the estate, for the due ad
ministration of the estate.
2. Where the objection is that he is not a resident of the
State ; and he is a citizen of the United States.
But a person against whom there is no objection, except
that of non residence, is entitled to letters testamentary,
without giving a bond, if he has an office within the State,
for the regular transaction of business in person ; and the
will contains an express provision, to the effect that he may
act without giving security,
§ 8339. A person, named as executor in a will, may 3Dem. 104.
renounce the appointment by an instrument in writing, signed
by him, and acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like
manner as a deed to be recorded in the county, or attested
by one or more witnesses, and proved to the satisfaction of
the surr >gate. Such a renunciation may be retracted by a
like instrument, at any time before letters testamentary, or
letters of administration with the will annexed, have been
issued to any other person in his place ; or, after they have
been so issued, if they have been revoked, or the person to
whom they were issued has died; or become a lunatic, and
there is no other acting executor or administrator. Where
a retraction is so made, letters testamentary may, in the
discretion of the surrogate, be issued to the person making
it. An instrument specified in this section must be filed
»
and recorded in the surrogate's office.
§ 2640. Where the will contains a valid power, author
izing the selection as executor thereof, of a person not
named therein, the selection must be made, by the person
appointed for that purpose, within thirty days after making
the decree admitting the will to probate ; in default whereof,
the power of selection is deemed to have been renounced.
Such selection must be made by an instrument in writing,
designating the person selected, signed by the proper per
son, and acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like
manner as a deed to be recorded in the county, or proved
to the satisfaction of the surrogate, and filed in the surro
gate's office. Where the will authorizes the person, so to
be selected, to act with the executor or executors named
therein, the issuing of letters must be delayed until the ex
piration of the period, fixed in this section for the exercise
of the power of selection, and, if the selection is so made,
for five days thereafter.
§ 2641. Within five days after a selection is made, as
prescribed in the last section, any person may file an affidavit, verified as prescribed in section two thousand six
hundred and thirty-six of this act, showing that he is a
creditor of decedent, or a person interested in the estate, and
setting forth specially one or more legal objections to grant
ing letters to the person selected. The proceedings to be
taken thereupon are the same, as prescribed in sections two
thousand six hundred and thirty-seven and two thousand
six hundred and thirty-eight of this act. If letters are not
issued to the person so selected, the power of selection is
deemed to be exhausted.
§ 2642. [Am'd 1883.] If a person named as executor in
a will does not qualify or renounce within thirty days after
probate thereof ; or if a person, chosen by virtue of a power
in the will, does not qualify or renounce within thirty days
after the filing of the instrument designating him ; or, in
either case, if objections are filed, and the executor does not
qualify or renounce within five days after they are deter
mined in his favor, or in a case specified in section twentysix hundred and thirty-eight of this act, within five days
after an objection has been established ; the surrogate must,
upon the application of any other executor or any creditor
or person interested in the estate, make an order requiring
him to qualify within a time therein specified ; and directing
that in default of so doing, he be deemed to have renounced
his appointment. Where it appears by affidavit or other
written proof to the satisfaction of the surrogate that such
an order cannot, with due diligence, be served personally
withm the stale, upon the person therein named, the sur
rogate may prescribe the manner in which it must be served,
which may be by publication. If the person so appointed
executor does not qualify within the time fixed, or within
»
such further time as the surrogate allows for that purpose,
an order must be made and recorded, reciting the facts,
and declaring that he has renounced his appointment as
executor. Such an order may be revoked by the surrogate
in his discretion, and letters testamentary may be issued to
the person so failing to renounce or qualify, upon his appli
cation, in a case where he might have retracted an express
renunciation, as prescribed in section twenty-six hundred
and thirty-nine of this act . And where any powers to sell,
mortgage or lease real estate, or any interest therein, are
given to executors as such, or as trustees, or as executors
and trustees, and any of such persons named as executors
shall neglect to qualify, then all sales, mortgages and leases
under said powers made by the executors who shall qualify
shall be equally valid as if the other executors or trustees
had joined in such sale.
lDem. 240.
§ 2643. [Am'd 188\.] If no person is named as exe2 id. 203.
cutor in the will, or selected by vittue of a power contained
ld<2(*7!8*
therein ; or if, at any time, by reason of death, incompeid. 487!
tency adjudged by the surrogate, renunciation in either
of the methods prescribed in sections two thousand six hundred ami thirty nine tmi -wnrbouMim -ix nimiixi »nd
forty-two of this :u-r. ir n^-'vanon >r ener*-. "Uere :«- 10
executor, or adntinistratar v-ta in-T-i! m::>-it«i. <tnuiitt<t
to act; the surro<rate must, u; ^n lie inniit-iunu it i :n>iitor of the decedent. >r .1 -u-r-on mer-Jct n he .r*:ue.
and upon such notice ■« rhe itiier -r»-iit< r» urn i»"--oii^ 11terested in the estate. » tin- -Jin-"'.rite ie»-ni> iri*' t-^ue
letters of adnumistraiion v-ii iie vil inm-: -1. u- ii.iiuw--.
1. To one or mure if lie .Tauuutrj a-^ucrrs «uu ire
qualified to act an admuumnu. r».
2. If there ia no -men. rr-aiiiuar-* "eiruee. ir iime vio mill
accept then to one or mure it Oik principal, ir ?pw:Uii: tsjatees. so quaiiried.
&. If there is m: such >aniee. ir none vim w\l ic-wot.
then to die husband, irv.ii-. ir o >ne ir nun jt jie :n.\:
of kin, or to one or mure it aie aein* ir it'".****, so ..£iui.ified.
4. If there is no (nnutned person, inr.i'.tui miler ;iie r.'re- i is.in. *»*.
going subdivisions, who w:ii u-_-".r.t. 'nt-a v .ne jr awry
of the creditors who .ire so imiAzKiL. tz:-.;. c ua: ui :i)icounties of 5ew York and S!;n^r* ".ne pi.'".:i: a» rm •sistritor.
shall have preference, after the nex: .f <en, .»er creamers.
and all other persons.
5. If there is no qix"ilnr"d rr—liT~T "vio w-3I accept, then
to any proper person designated '-.j Che surrvtrine.
§ 2644. But wherea person ijciies:" -r letters of sdmiuistration with tlie will ancex^d, as prt-H.ri":td in the utiU;
section, and another person has a rviht so the admiuistration, prior to that of the peti it .ner. tae application must it;
made by petition. orders a written rtcuri'iaricn of every
person having such a prxrrizht. is n!~d v. ith the surrogate,
and the execution thereof is proved to his satisfaction. The
petition must pray that all the persons bavins: a prior right,
who have not renounced, be cited to show cause, why ad
ministration should not be granted to the petitioner. Th»
proceedinss thereupon are the sime. as upon an application
for administration upon t^e estate of an intestate.
g 2845. An executor, from whom a bond is required, » R«tf. sm.
as prescribed in this article, or an administrator with the 1 'l,»> ''"•
will annexed, must, before letters are issu d to him, qualify
as prescril>efl by law, with respect to an administrator upon
the estate of "an intestate ; and the provisions of article
fourth of this title, with respect to the bond to be given by
the administrator of an intestate, apply to a tx>ml given
pursuant to this s?ction ; except that, in fixing the penalty
thereof, the surrogate must take into consideration the
value of the real property, or of the proceeds thereof, which
may come to the hands of the executor or administrator,
by virtue of any provision contained iu the will,
§ 2646. This article does not vary the. effect of a decree
for probate, made before this chapter takes ell'ect, us de
clared in the statutes then in force.
§ 2647. A person interested in the estate of the dece
dent may, within the time specified in the next section,
presented to the surrogate's court, in which a will of per
sonal property was proved, a written petition, duly veri
fied, containing allegations against the validity of the will,
or the competency of the proof thereof; and praying that
the probate thereof may be revoked, and that the persons,
enumerated in the next section but one, may be cited to
show cause why it should not be revoked. Upon the pressentation of such a petition, the surrogate must issue a
citation accordingly.
§ 2648. [Am'd 1881.] A petition must be presented, r.s
prescribed in the last section, within one year after the re
cording of the decree admitting the will to probate ; except
that, when the person entitled to present it is then under a
disability specified in section three hundred and ninety-six
of this act, the time of such disability is not part of the
year limited in this section, unless such person shall have
appeared by general or special guardian or otherwise on said
probate. But this section does not affect an application
made pursuant to subdivision sixth of section two thous
and four hundred and eighty-one of this act.
. § 2649. A petition, presented as prescribed in the last
two sections, must pray that the citation maybe directed
to the executor, or administrator with the will annexed ; to
all the devisees and legatees named in the will ; and to all
other persons, who were parties to the special proceeding
in which probate was granted. If a legatee is dead, his
executor or administrator must be cited, if one has been
appointed ; if not, such persons must be cited as represent
ing him, as the surrogate designates for the purpose
§ 2650. After service upon him of a citation, issued as
prescribed in the last three sections, the executor, or ad
ministrator with the will annexed, must suspend, until a
decree is made upon the petition, all proceedings relating
to the estate ; except for the recovery or preservation of
property, the collection and payment of debts, and such
other acts as he is expressly allowed to perform, by an order
of the surrogate, made upon notice to the petitioner.
§ 2651. Upon the return of the citation, the surrogate
must proceed to hear the allegations and proofs of the
parties. The testimony, taken upon the application for
probate, of a witness who is dead, or without the State, oi who, since his testimony, was taken, has become a lunatic,
or otherwise incompetent, must be received in evidence.
§ 2652. If the surrogate decides that the will is not suf
ficiently proved to be the last will of the testator, or is, for
any reason, invalid, he must make a decree revoking the
probate thereof ; otherwise, he must make a decree con
firming the probate.
§ 2653. Where the decree revokes the probate of a will, WN. T.
as prescribed in this article, the surrogate must cause o'ateRej*
notice of the revocation to be immediately published, for
three successive weeks, in * newspaper published in his
county.
§ 2654. Where a person, seized in fee of real property
within the State, dies intestate, or without having devised
his real property to specific persons, his heirs, or any of
them, may present to the surrogate's court which has ac
quired jurisdiction of the estate, or, if no surrogate's court
has acquired such jurisdiction, then to the surrogate's
court of the county where the real property, or any part
thereof, is situated, a written petition, duly verified ; de
scribing the real property ; setting forth the facts upon
which the jurisdiction of the court depends ; and the in
terest or share of the petitioner, and of each other heir of
the decedent, in the real property ; and praying for a de
cree establishing the right of inheritance thereto, and that
all the heirs of the decedent may be cited to attend the pro
bate of that right. Upon the presentation of such a peti
tion, the surrogate must issue a citation accordingly.
§ 2655. The citation must set forth the name of the
decedent and of the petitioner ; the interest or share which
the petitioner claims ; and a brief description of the real
property. Any heir of the decedent, who has not been
cited, may nevertheless appear at the hearing; and there
by make himself a party to the special proceeding. But
this section does not affect a right or interest of such a per
son, unless he becomes a party.
§ 2656. Upon the return of the citation, the surrogate
must hear the allegations and proofs of the patties If it
appears that there is a contest, respecting the heirship of a
party, or respecting the share to which a party is entitled,
as an heir of the decedent, the surrogate must dismiss the
proceedings. If there is no such contest, he must inquire
Into the facts and circumstances of the case. The peti
tioner must establish, by satisfactory evidence, the fact of
the decedent's death ; the place of his residence at the time
of his death ; his intestacy, either generally, or as to the
real property in question ; the number of heirs entitled to
inherit the property in question ; the name, age, residence,
and relationship to the decedent, of each ; and the interest
or share of each in the property. The surrogate, where
these facts are established, must make a decree, describing
the property, and declaring that the right of inheritance
thereto has been establised to his satisfaclion, in accordance
with the facts, which must be recited in the decree.
§ 3657. An exemplified copy of a decree, made as
prescribed in the last section, and of the proofs taken theieupon, may be recorded in the office of the clerk, or of the
register, as the case requires, of each county in ■which the
real property is situated, as prescribed by law for recording
a deed, and, from the time when the exemplifications are
so recorded, the decree, or the rerord thereof, is presumptive
evidence of the facts so declared to be established thereby.
§ 2658. Any person, other than a party to a special
proceeding, instituted as prescribed in this article, or the
heir, devisee, or assignee of such a party, may, at any time
■within ten years after a decree establishing the right of in
heritance is made therein, present to the court a 'written
petition, duly verified, showing that he has a right, title, or
interest in the real property, or a part thereof, which is in
juriously affected by the decree ; stating that the decree is
erroneous in some material particular, specified therein ;
and praying that the decree may be set aside or modified
in that particular, and that all the persons, whose heirship
■was established by the decree, may be cited to show cause,
why the prayer of the petition should not be granted. If
an heir has since died, or has conveyed the share or interest
so established, by a deed duly recorded in the county, the
petition must state that fact ; and must pray that the per
sons, who have succeeded to his interest, may lie also cited.
Upon the presentation of such a petition, the surrogate
must issue a citation accordingly.
§ 2659. "Where a petition is presented as prescril)ed in
the last section, and it appears, upon the hearing, that, if
the petitioner, or his ancestor, testator, or grantor, had been
a party to the special proceeding, the decree or a part
thereof could not have been legally made, as prescribed in
this article, the surrogate must vacate or modify the decree
accordingly. An exempli tied copy of the decree or order,
so vacating or modifying the original decree, may be
recorded in the office of any clerk or register, where a copy
of the original decree was recorded.
§ 2660. A person entitled absolutely or contingently, to
administration upon the estate of an intestate, may present
to the surrogate's court, having jurisdiction, a written peti
tion, duly verified, praying for a decree, awarding letters
of administration, either to him or to such other person or
persons, having a prior right, as may be entitled thereto, or
in the alternative, as the petitioner elects ; and, if necessary,
that the persons required to be cited, as prescribed in the
next section but one, may be cited to show cause, why such
a decree should not be made. The pelition must set forth
the petitioner's title ; the facts upon which the jurisdiction
of the court to grant letters of administration upon the
estate depends ; and the names of the husband or wife, if
any, and of the next of kin of the decedent, as far as they
are known to the petitioner, or can be ascertained by hiin
with due diligence.
§ 2661. A citation shall not be issued, and a decree
shall not be made where a citation is not necessary, until the
petitioner presumptively proves, by affidavit or otherwise,
to the satisfaction of the surrogate, the existence of all the
jurisdictional facts, and, particularly, that the decedent left
no will. For the purpose of tlte inquiry touching any of
these matters, the surrogate may issue a subpoena, requir
ing any person to attend and be examined as a witness.
§ 2662. Every person, being a resident of the State, who
ha'a a right to administration, prior or equal to that of the
petitioner, and who has not renounced, must be cited upon
a petition for letters of administration. The surrogate
may, in his discretion, issue a citation to non residents, or
those who have renounced, or to any or all other persons
interested in the estate, whom he thinks proper to cite.
Where it is not necessary to citeany person, a decree, grant
ing to the petitioner letters, may be made upon presentation
of the petition.
§ S663. Where the surrogate is unable to ascertain, to
his satisfaction, whether the decedent left, surviving him,
any person entitled to succeed to his estate, a citation must
be issued, directed generally to all creditors of, and persons
interested in, the estate, and also to the Attorney-General,
and the public administrator of the proper county, requir
ing tnem to show cause, why administration should w I be
granted to thu petitioner.
§ 2664. Any person who has a right to administration,
prior or equal to that of the petitioner, may renounce his
right by a written instument, acknowledged or proved, and
certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded in the
county, or otherwise proved to the satisfaction of the surro
gate ; which must be filed in the surrogate's office.
§ 2665. Where a citation is issued, any creditor of the
decedent, or any person interested in the personal estate,
although not cited, may appear and make himself a party
to the special proceeding, in like manner and with like
effect, as a devisee or legatee, who is not cited upon an
application for probate.
§ 8666. Upon the return of a citation, issued as pre
scribed in this article, the surrogate must make such a
decree in the premises, as justice requires. The decree may
award administration to any party to the special proceed
ing, who appears to be entitled thereto. The surrogate
may, in his discretion, award administration without a per
sonal examination of the person to whom it is awarded.
§2667. [Am'd 1881, 1882.] A person appointed an
"dministrator must, before letters are issued to him, besides
filing his official oath, execute to the people of the state,
and file with the surrogate, the joint and several bond of
himself and two or more sureties, in a penalty fixed by the
surrogate, not less than twice the value of the personal
property of which the decedent died possessed, and of the
probable amount to be recovered by reason of any right of
action granted to an executor or administrator by special
provision of law. The sum to be fixed as the amount of
the penalty must be ascertained by the surrogate, by the
examination, upon oath, of the applicant or any other per
son, or otherwise, as the surrogate thinks proper. The bond
must be conditioned that the administrator will faithfully
discharge the trust reposed in him as such and obey all law
ful decrees and orders of the surrogate's court touching the
administration of the estate committed to him. But where
a right of action is granted to an executor or administra
tor by special provision of law if it appears to be imprac
ticable to give a bond sufficient to cover the probable
amount to be recovered, the surrogate may in his discretion
accept modified security and issue letters limited to the
prosecution of such action but restraining the executor or
administrator from a compromise of the action and the
enforcement of any judgment recovered therein until the
further order of the surrogate on additional further satis
factory security. In cases where all the next of kin to the
intestate consent thoreto, the penalty of the bond required
to be given shall not exceed twice the amount of the claims
of creditors against the estate presented to the surrogate,
pursuant to a: notice to be published twice a week for four
weeks in the state paper, and in two newspapers published
in the city of New York, and once a week for four weeks in two newspapers published in the county where
the intestate usually resided, and in the county where
he died, reciting an intention to apply for letters under
this provision, and notifying creditors to present their
claims to the surrogate on or before a day to be fixed in
such notice, which shall be at least thirty days after the
first publication thereof ; but no bond so given shall be for
a less sum than five thousand dollars ; and such bond may
be increased by order of the surrogate for cause shown.
Pending such application, no temporary administrator shall
be appointed except on petition of such next of kin.
§ 2668. Upon the application of a creditor, or a person
interested in the estate, the surrogate may, in his discretion,
issue to one or more persons, competent and qualified to
serve as executors, letters of temporary administration, in
either of the following cases :
1. Where delay necessarily occurs in the granting of let
ters testamentary or letters of administration, in conse
quence of a contest arising upon an application therefore,
or for probate of a will ; or in consequence of the absence
from the State of an executor named in the will ; or for
any other cause.
2. Where a person, of whose estate the surrogate would
have jurisdiction, if he was shown to be dead, disappears
or is missing, so that, after diligent search, his abode can
not be ascertained, and under circumstances which afford
reasonable ground to believe either that he is dead, or that
lie has become a lunatic, or that he has been secreted, con
fined, or otherwise unlawfully made away with ; and the
appointment of a temporary administrator is necessary for
the protection of his property, and the rights of creditors,
or of those who will be interested in the estate, if it is
found that he is dead.
§ 2669. [Am'd 1881.] An appointment of a temporary
administrator, in a case specified in subdivision first of the last section, must bo made by an order. At least ten days'
notice of the application for such an order must be given
lo each party to the special proceeding, who has appeared,
unless the surrogate is satislied, by proof, that the safety
of the estate requires the notice to be shortened, in which
case he may shorten the time of service to not less that two
days.
£ 2670. Applcation for such an appointment, in a case
specified in subdivision second of the last section but one,
must be made by petition, in like manner as where an ap
plication is made for administration, in a case of intestacy ;
and the proceedings are the same as prescribed in article
fourth of this title, relating to such last mentioned applica
tion. Such an application for the appointment of a tem
porary adminstrator may also be made, with like effect, and
in like manner, as if it was made by a creditor, by the
county treasurer of the county where the person, whose
estate is in question, last resided ; or, if he was not a resi
dent of the State, of the county where any of his propertyreal or personal is situated.
§ 2671. A temporary administrator must qualify, as
prescribed in article fourth of this title, with respect to an
administrator in chief.
r. I>em. 830.
§ 2672. [Am'd 1881.] A temporary administrator, ap
pointed as prescribed in this article, has authority to take
into his possession personal property ; to secure and pre
serve it; and to collect choses in action ; and, for either of
these purposes, be may maiutan any action or special pro
ceeding. An action may be maintained against him, by
leave of the surrogate, upon a debt of the decedent, or of
the absentee whom lie represents, in like manner and with
like effect as if he was an administrator in chief. The sur
rogate may, by an order made upon at least ten days' notice
to all the parties who have appeared in the special proceed
ing, authorize the temporary administrator to sell, after
appraisal, such personal property, specifying it, of the
decedent, or of the absentee whom he represents, as it ap
pears to be necessary to sell, for the benefit of the estate ;
or, if it appears that the safety of the estate requires the
notice to be shortened, the surrogate may shorten the notice
to not less than two days. The surrogate may, also, by
order, authorize him to pay funeral expenses, or any ex
penses of the administration of his trust, or stenographer's
or referee's fees on contest of a will or administration ; and
he may also direct the payment of a legacy or other
pecuniary provision under a will or a distributive shard or
just proportionate part thereof, according to section two
thousand seven hundred and nineteen of this act as though
he were an executor or administrator.
§ 2673. After six months have elapsed, since letters
were issued to a temporary administrator, appointed upon
the estate, of either a decedent or an absentee, he has the same power, as an administrator in chief, to publish a
notice requiring creditors of the decedent or absentee, to
exhibit their demands to him. The publication thereof
has the same effect, with respect to the temporary adminis
trator, and also an executor or administrator, subsequently
appointed upon the same estate, as if the temporary ad
ministrator was the executor or an administrator in chief,
and the person to whom the subsequent letters are issued
was his successor.
§ 2674. After a year has elapsed, since letters were
issued to a temporary administrator, appointed upon the
c .late, of either a decedent or an absentee, the surrogate
may, upon-the application of a temporary administrator,
and upon proof, to his satisfaction, that the assets exceed
the debts, make an order, permitting the applicant to pay
the whole or any part of a debt, due to a creditor of a de
cedent or absentee ; or, upon the petition of such a creditor,
he may issue a citation to the temporary administrator, re
quiring him to show cause why he should not pay the
petitioner's debt. When such a petition is presented, the
proceedings are, in all respects, the same as where a creditor
presents a petition, praying for a decree directing an exe
cutor or administrator to pay his debt, as prescribed in
article first of title fourth of this chapter.
§ 2675. "Where a.temporary administrator is appointed, l Dem. 62
in consequence of a contest respecting a will of real
prop: rty, the order appointing him may confer upon him
authority to take possession of real property, in the same
or another county, which is affected by the will, and to
roceive the rents and profits thereof. The surrogate may,
by an order, confer upou him authority to lease any or all
of the real property, for a term not exceeding one year ; or
to do any other act with respect thereto, except to sell it,
which is, in the surrogate's opinion, necessary for the exe
cution of the will, or the preservation or benefit of the real
property. For either of these purposes, he may maintain
or defend any action or special proceeding.
§ 2676. A temporary administrator, appointed upon the
estate of an absentee, has all the powers and authority
enumerated in the last section, with respect to the real
property of the absentee. His acts, done in pursuance of
that authority, bind the absentee, if he is living, or his heir
or devisee, if he is dead, in the same manner as the acts of
an executor or administrator bind his successor.
§ 2677. Upon proof, satisfactory to the surrogate, that
the wife or any infant child of an absentee, upon whose
estate a temporary administrator has been appointed, is in
such circumstances, as to require provision to be made out
of the estate for his or her maintenance, clothing, or
education, the surrogate may make an order, directing the
temporary administrator to make such provision therefore, as the surrogate deems proper, out of any personal property
in his hands, not needed for the payment of debts.
§ law, con§ 2678« [Am'd 18S3.] A temporary administrator, apbol. Act.
pointed as prescribed in this article, must, within ten days
after any money belonging to the estate comes into his
hands, deposit it as prescribed in this section. Where he
was appointed by the surrogate's court of any county except
New York, it must be deposited with a person, with a bank,
or in a domestic incorporated trust company, designated by
the surrogate ; but a natural person so designated as de
pository must first file in the surrogate's office a bond to the
surrogate in a penalty fixed by him, executed by the de
pository and two sureties, and conditioned to render a
faithful account and pay over all money received by him
upon the direction of any court of competent jurisdiction.
Where the temporary administrator was appointed by the
surrogate of the county of New York, the money must be
deposited in a domestic incorporated trust company, having
its principal office or place of business in the city of New
York, and either specially approved by the surrogate or
designated in the general rules of practice as a depository
of funds paid into court,
j i20t, Con8 2679. If a temporary administrator neglects to make
sol. Act
a deposit, as prescribed in the last section, within the time
therein limited, the surrogate must, upon the application
of a creditor or person interested in the estate, accompanied
with satisfactory proof of the neglect, make an order,
directing him to do so forthwith, or to show cause why a
warrant of attachment should not issue against him. In
the County of New York, the order must be made return
able three days after issuing it ; and it must be served upon
the temporary administrator, at least two days before Uie
return day thereof, either personally or by leaving a copy
thereof within the State, at his dwelling place, or his office
for the regular transaction of business in person ; or, if it
cannot be served in either of those methods, by serving it
in such other manner, as the surrogate directs. In any
other county, it must be made returnable within a reason
able time, not exceeding fifteen days after issuing it ; and
it must be served, in like manner, at least ten days before
the return day thereof.
§ 2680. Money deposited by a temporary administrator,
as prescribed in this article, cannot be withdrawn, except
upon the order of the surrogate, a certified copy of which
must be presented to the depository. Such an order may
be made upon two days' notice of the application therefore,
given to all the parties to the special proceeding, in which
the temporary administrator was appointed, who appeared
therein ; but not otherwise.
§ 2681. A notice required to be given, as prescribed in
this article, to a party other than the temporary adminis
trator, must be served upon the attorney of the party to
whom notice is to be given; or, if ho has not appeared by
an attorney, upon the party, in like manner as a notice may
be served upon an attorney in a civil action, brought in the
supreme court. But where the attorney or party to be
served does not reside in the surrogate's county ; or where
the attorney for a party has died, and no other appearance
for that party has been filed in the surrogate's office ; the
surrogate may, by order, dispense with notice to that
party ; or may require notice to be given to him, in any
manner which he thinks proper.
§ 2682. Section two thousand five hundred and ninetythree of this act does not affect any proceeding in favor of
or agaiDst an executor, or an administrator in chief, where
a temporary administrator of the same estate has been ap
pointed, except as otherwise prescribed in section two
thousand six hundred and seventy-three and section two
thousand six hundred and seventy-four of this act.
§ 2683. Each provision of this chapter, imposing a gDem.aw
duty or liability upon a temporary administrator, appointed
upon the estate of a decedent, or his sureties ; or conferring
upon the surrogate power or authority with respect to such
a temporary administrator, or his sureties ; applies to a
collector or special administrator, appointed before this
chapter takes effect, and his sureties ; except so far as it is
repugnant to the provisions of law in force, when the col
lector or special administrator was appointed, or to the
letters issued to him.
§ 2684. Where, after letters of administration, on the
ground of intestacy, have been granted, a will is admitted
to probate, and letters are issued thereupon ; cr where,
after letters have been issued upon a will, thr probate
thereof is revoked, or a subsequent will is admitted to
probate, and letters are issued thereupon ; the decree,
granting or revoking probate, must revoke the former
letters.
§ 2685. In either of the following cases, a creditor, or 2Dem. 261.
person interested in the estate of a decedent, may present, 6 w- 39to the surrogate's court, from which letters were issued to an executor or administrator, a written petition, duly veri
fied, praying for a decree revoking those letters ; and that
the executor or administrator may be cited to show cause,
why a decree should not be made accordingly :
1. Where the executor or administrator was, when let
ters were issued to him, or has since become, incompetent,
or disqualified by law to act as such ; and the grounds of
the objection did not exist, or the objection was not taken
by the petitioner, or a person whom he represents, upon
the hearing of the application for letters.
2. Where, by reason of bis having wasted or improperly
applied the money or other assets in his hands, or invested
money in securities unauthorized by law, or otherwise
improvidently managed or injured the property committed
to his charge ; or by reason of other misconduct in the
execution of his office, or dishonesty, drunkenness, im
providence, or want of understanding ; he is unfit for the due
execution of his office.
3. Where he has willfully refused, or, without good cause,
neglected, to obey any lawful direction of the surrogate,
contained in a decree or order ; or any provision of law,
relating to the discharge of his duty.
iVem. 394.
4. Where the grant of his letters was obtained by a false
suggestion of a material fact.
5. In the case of an executor, where bis circumstances
are such, that they do not afford adequate security to the
creditors or persons interested, for the due administration
of the estate.
6. In the case of an executor, where he has removed or
is about to remove from the State, and the case is not one,
where a non-resident executor would be entitled to letters
without giving a bond.
7. In the case of an executor, where, by the terms of the
will, his office was to cease upon a contingency, which has
happened.
8. In the case of a temporary administrator, appointed
upon the estate of an absentee, where it is shown that the
absentee has returned ; or that he is living, and capable of
returning and resuming the management of his affairs ; or
that an executor, or an administrator in chief has been
appointed upon his estate ; or that a committee of his
property has been appointed by a competent court of the
Stale.
k.
8T>m. 429.
§ 2686. A petition, presented as prescribed in the last
section, must set forth the [acts and circumstances, showing
that the case is one of those therein specified. Upon proof,
by affidavit or oral testimony, satisfactory to the surrogate,
of the truth of the allegations contained in the petition, a
citation must be issued according to the prayer thereof;
except that, where the case is within subdivision fifth of the
last section, and the executor has given a bond, as prescribed in article first of this title, the surrogate may, in his dis
cretion, entertain or decline to entertain the application.
§ 2687. Upon the return of a citation, issued as pre
scribed in the last section, if the objections, or any of them,
are established to the surrogate's satisfaction, he must make
a decree, revoking the letters issued to the person com
plained of. But the surrogate may, in his discretion, dis
miss the proceedings, upon such terms, as to costs, as
justice requires, and may allow the letters to remain unre
voked, in either of the following cases :
1. Where the case is within subdivision third of the last
section but one, if the direction of the surrogate or the
provision of law is obeyed, and suitable amends made to
each person injured by the neglect or refusal to obey it.
2. Where the case is within subdivision fourth of that
section, if the person cited is entitled to letters, notwith
standing the false suggestion.
8. Where the case is within subdivision flflh of that
section, if the executor gives, within a reasonable time,
not exceeding five days, a bond, as prescribed in article
first of this title.
§ 2688. Where an executor or administrator is also a
testamentary trustee, a decree revoking his letters does not
affect his power or authority as testamentary trustee, except
in the case specially prescribed for that purpose, in title
sixth of this chapter.
§2689. An executor or administrator may, at any time, 4Dem. 341.
present to the surrogate's court a written petition, duly veri
fied, praying that his account may be judicially settled ;
that a decree may thereupon be made, revoking his letters,
and discharging him accordingly ; and that the same per
sons may be cited to show cause, why such a decree should
not be made, who must be cited upon a petition for a judi
cial settlement of his account, as prescribed in article second
of title fourth of this chapter. The petition must set forth
the facts upon which the application is founded ; and it
must, in all other respects, conform to a petition praying
for a judicial settlement of the account of an executor or
administrator. The surrogate may, in his discretion, en
tertain or decline to entertain the application.
g 2690. If the surrogate entertains an application, made 4Dem. 162.
as prescribed in the last section, the proceedings thereupon Id- 341must be, in all respecte, the same, as upon a petition for a
judicial settlement of the petitioner's account ; except that,
upon the hearing, the surrogate must first determine,
whether sufficient reasons exist for granting the prayer of
the petition. If he determines that they exist, he must
make an order accordingly, and allowing the petitioner to
account, for the purpose of being discharged. Upon his
fully accounting, and paying over all money which is found
to be due from him to the estate, and delivering over all
books, papers, and other property of the estate in his hands. either into the surrogate's court, or in such a manner as the
surrogate directs, a decree may be made, revoking the peti
tioner's letters, and discharging him accordingly.
.-" 2691. In either of the following cases, the surrogate
must make a decree, revoking letters testamentary or letters
of administration, issued from his court, without a petition
or the L-suing of a citation :
1. Where the person, to whom the letters were issued, is
not a resident of the State, or is absent therefrom ; and,
upon being duly cited to account, neglects to appear upon
the return of the citation, without showing a satisfactory
excuse therefore ; and the surrogate has not sufficient reason
to believe that such an excuse can be made.
2. Where a citation, issued to such a person, in a case
prescribed by law, cannot be personally served upon him,
by reason of his having absconded or concealed himself.
3. Where, by reason of his default in returning an in
ventory, such a person has remained, for thirty days, com
mitted to jail, under the surrogate's order, granted" in pro
ceedings taken as prescribed in section two thousand seven
hundred and fifteen of this act.
4. In the case of a temporary administrator, where an
order has been made and served, as prescribed in section
two thousand six hundred and seventy -nine of this act,
directing him to deposit money, or show cause why a war
rant of attachment should not issue against him ; and a
warrant of attachment, issued thereupon, has been returned
not served upon him.
£ 2692. Where one of two or more executors or admin
istrators dies, or becomes a lunatic, or is convicted of an
infamous offense, or becomes otherwise incapable of dis
charging the trust reposed in him ; or where letters are
revoked with respect to one of them, a successor tothe per
son, whose letters are revoked, shall not be appointed, ex
cept where such an appointment is necessary, in order to
comply with the express terms of a will ; but the others
may proceed and complete the administration of the estate,
pursuant to the letters, and may continue any action or
special proceeding, brought by or against alL
4Tte<if 399.
§ 2693. [Am'd 1889.] When all the executors or all the
4 ueml 4H7.' administrators, to whom letters have been issued, die or be
come incapable, as prescribed in section two thousand six
hundred and ninety-two, ortheletters are revoked as to all of
them, the surrogate must grant letters of administration to
one or more persons as their successors, in like manner as
if the former letters had not been issued ; and the proceed
ings to procure the grant of such letters are the same, and
the same security shall be required, as in a case of intes
tacy, except that the surrogate may, in his Discretion, in
case where the estate has been partially administered upon
by the former representative or representatives, fix as the
penalty of the bond to be given by such successor or sue-cessors, a sum not less than twice the value of the assets of
the estate remaining unadministered.
§ 2694. The validity and effect of a testamentary disposition of real property, situated within the State, or of an
interest in real property so situated, which v ould descend
to the heir of an intestate, and the manner in which such
property or such an interest descends, where it is not dis
posed of by will, are regulated by the law# of the State,
without regard to the residence of the decedent. Except
where special provision is otherwise made by law, the
validity and effect of a testamentary disposition of any
other property situated within the State, and the ownership
and disposition of such property, where it is not disposed
of by will, are regulated by the laws of the State or country,
of which the decedent was a resident, at the time of his
death.
§ 2695. [Am'd 1888.] Where a will of personal property
made by a person who resided without this State at the time
of the execution thereof or at the time of his death, has
been admitted to probate within the foreign country, or
within the State or the Territory of the United States,where
it was executed, or where the testator resided at the time of
his death, the surrogate's court having jurisdiction of the
State, must, upon an application made as prescribed in this
article, accompanied by a copy of the will, and of the for
eign letters, if any have been issued, authenticated as
prescribed in this article, record the will and the foreign
letters, and issue thereupon ancillary letters testamentary,
or ancillary letters of administration with the will annexed,
as the case requires.
§ 2696. [Am'd 1881, 1888.] Upon application by the
party entitled as hereinafter provided, or by his duly
authorized attorney-in-fact made as prescribed in this arti
cle, to a surrogate's court having jurisdiction of the estate,
and upon the presentation of a copy, authenticated as pre
scribed in this article, of letters of administration upon the
estate of a decedent who resided at the time of his death
without this State but within the United States, granti
within the State or Territory where the decedent soresid or, in cases wheie the decedent, at the time of his death,
resided without the United States, upon the presentation
to such surrogate's court, of satisfactory proof that the
party so applying, either personally or hy such attorney-infact, is entitled to the possession, in the foreign country,
of the personal estate of such decedent, the surrogate's
court to which such copy of such foreign letters so authen
ticated, or such proof, is so presented, must issue ancillary
letters of administration in accordance with such applica
tion, except in the following cases :
1. Where ancillary letters have been previously issued,
as prescribed in the last section.
« Dem. 250.
2. Where an application, for letters of administration
upon the estate, has been made by a relative of the decedent,
who is legally competent to act, to a surrogate's court of
this State, having jurisdiction to grant the same ; and letters
have been granted accordingly, or the application has not
been finally disposed of.
§2697. [Am'd 1881.] Where the will specially appoints
one or more persons as the executors thereof, with respect
to personal prt^ierty situated within the State, the ancillary
letters testamentary must lie directed to the persons so ap
pointed, or to those who are competent to act and qualify.
If all are incompetent, or fail to qualify, or in a case where
such an appointment is not made, ancillary letters testa
mentary, or ancillary letters of administration, issued as
prescribed in this article, must be directed to the person
named in the foreign letters or to the person otherwise en
titled to the possession of the personal property of the de
cedent, unless another person applies therefore, and files
with his petition, an instrument, executed by the foreign
executor or administiator, or person otherwise entitled as
aforesaid ; or, if there are two or more, by all who have
qualified and are acting ; and also acknowledged or proved
and certified in like manner as a deed to be recorded in the
county, authorizing the petitioner to receive such ancillary
letters, in which case the surrogate must, if the petitioner is
a fit and competent person, issue such letters directed to
him. Where two or more pet sons are named in the foreign
letters, or in an instrument executed as prescribed in this
section, the ancillary letters may be directed to either or
any of them, without naming the others, if the others fail to
qualify, or if, for good cause shown to the surrogate's sa
tisfaction, the decree so directs.
1 civ. Pro.
j; 2698. An application for ancillary letters testamentary,
or ancillary letters of administration, as prescribed in this
article, must be made by petition. l'pon the presentation
thereof, the surrogate must ascertain, to his satisfaction,
whether any creditors, or persons claiming to be creditors,
of the decedent reside within the State ; and if so, the name
and residence of each creditor, or person claiming to be a
creditor, so far as the same can be ascertained. lie must thereupon issue a citation, directed to each person whose
name and residence have been so ascertained ; and also di
rected generally to all creditors, or persons claiming to be
creditors, of the decedent. Any such person, although not
cited by his name, may appear and contest the application,
and thus make himself a party to the special proceeding.
§ 2699. Upon the return of the citation, the surrogate
must ascertain, as nearly as he can do so, the amount of
debts due, or claimed to be due from the decedent to re
sidents of the State. Before ancillary letters are issued, the
person, to -whom they ure awarded, must qualify, as pre
scribed in article fourth of this title, for the qualification
of an administrator upon the estate of an intestate ; except
that the penalty of the bond may, in the discretion of the
surrogate, be in such a sum, not exceeding twice the amount
which appears to be due from the decedent to residents of
the State, as will, in the surrogate's opinion, effectually
secure the payment of those debts ; or the sums which the
resident creditors will be entitled to receive, from the per
sons to whom the letters are issued, upon an accounting
and distribution, either within the State, or within the ju
risdiction where the principal letters were issued.
§ 2700. The person to whom ancillary letters are issued,
as prescribed in this article, must, unless otherwise directed
in the decree awarding the letters ; or in a decree made
upon an accounting ; or by an order of the surrogate, made
during the administration of the estate ; or by the judgment
or order of a court of record, in an action to which that
person is a party ; transmit the money and other personal
property of the decedent, received by him after the letters
are issued, or then in his hands in another capacity, to the
state, territory, or country, where the principal letters were
granted, to be disposed of pursuant to the laws thereof.
Money or other property, so transmitted by him, at any
time before he is so directed to retain it, must be allowed
to him upon an accounting.
§ 2701. The surrogate's court, or any court of the
State, which has jurisdiction of an action to procure an ac
counting, or a judgment construing the will, may, in a
proper case, by its judgment or decree, direct a person, to
whom ancillary letters are issued as prescribed in this ar
ticle, to pay, out of the money or the avails of the property,
received by hira under the ancillary letters, and with which
he is chargeable upon his accounting, the debts of the de
cedent, due to creditors residing within the State ; or, if
the amount of all the decedent's debts, here and elsewhere,
exceeds the amount of all the decedent's personal property
applicable thereto, to pay such a sum to each creditor, re
siding within the State, as equals that creditor's share of
all the distributable assets, or to distribute the same among
legatees or next of kin, or otherwise dispose of the same,
as justice requires.
§ 2702. The provisions of this chapter, relating to the
rights, powers, duties, and liabilities of an executor or ad
ministrator, apply to a person to whom ancillary letters
are granted, as prescribed in this article ; except those con
tained in title fifth thereof ; or where special provision is
Otherwise made in this article ; or where a contrary intent
is expressed in, or plainly to be inferred from, the con
text.
2 civ. Pro.
§ 2703. [Arn'd 1888.] "Wiere real property situated
s- >•
within this State, or an interest therein, is devised, or made
61 Hun, 837. subject j0 a power of disposition, by a will, duly executed
in conformity with the laws of this State, of a person who
was, at the time of his death, a resident elsewhere within
the United States, and such will has been admitted to
probate within the State or Territory where the decedent
so resided, and is filed or recorded in the proper office as
prescribed by the laws of that State or Territory, a copy of
such will or of the record thereof and of the proofs or of
the record thereof, or, if the proofs are not on file or re
corded in such office, of any statement, on file or recorded
in such office, of the^substance of the proofs, authenticated
as prescribed in this article, or if no proofs and no state
ment of the substance of the proofs be on file or recorded
in such office, a copy of such will, or of the record thereof,
authenticated as prescribed in this article, accompanied by
a certificate that no proofs or statement of the substance
of proofs of such will, are or is on file, or recorded in such
office, made and likewise authenticated as prescribed in this
article, may be recorded in the office of the surrogate of
any county of this state where such real property is situated;
and such record in the office of such surrogate, or an ex
emplified copy thereof, shall be presumptive evidence of such
will, and of the execution thereof, in any action or special
proceeding relating to such real property.
§ 2704. [Arn'd 1888.] To entitle a copy of a will ad
mitted to probate, or of letters testamentary or of letters of
administration, granted in any other State or in any Ter
ritory of the United States, and of the proofs or of any
statement of the substance of the proofs of any such will,
or of the record of any such will, letters, proofs, or state
ment, to be recorded or used in this state as provided in
this article, such copy must be authenticated by the seal of
the court or officer by which or whom such will was ad* mitted to probate, or such letters were granted, or having
the custody of the same or of the record thereof, and the
signature of a judge of such court, or the signature of such
Oificer and of the clerk of such court or offieer, if any ; and
must be further authenticated by a certificate Wider the
great or principal seal of such State or Territory, and the
signature of the officer who has the custody of such
seal, to the effect that the court or officer by which or
whom such will was admitted to probate or such letters were granted, was duly authorized by the laws of such
Stale or Territory to admit such will to probate, or to grant
such letters ; that the will, or letters, or records, the accom
panying copy of which is so authenticated, is or are kept
pursuant to those laws, by such court or by the officer who
authenticated such copy ; that the seal of such court or
officer affixed to such copy is genuine, and that the offieer
making such certificate under such seal of such State or
Territory verily believes that each of the signatures attest
ing such copy is genuine ; and to entitle any certificate con
cerning prool's accompanying the copy of the will or of the
record so authenticated, to be recorded or used in this
State, as provided in this article, such certificate must be
under the seal of the court or officer by which or whom
such will was admitted to probate, or having the custody
of such will or record, and the signature of a judge or the
clerk of such court, or the signature of such officer authen
ticated by a certificate under such great or principal seal of
such State or Territory, and the signature of the officer
having the custody thereof, to the effect that the seal of
the court or officer affixed to such certificate concerning
proofs is genuine, and that such officer making such certi
ficate under such seal of such State or Territory, verily
believes that the signature to such certificate concerning
proofs is genuine.
§ 2705. |Repealed.]
% 2706. [Am'd 1886.] An executor or administrator
16 Week.
may present to the surrogate's court, from which letters
Dip. 118.
2 I >i-ni. 306.

3 Id. 202.
1 Civ. Pro.
375.
15 N. T.
State Rep.
419.
5 Dem. 371.
27 N. Y.
State Rep.
128.

were issued to him, a written petition, duly verified, setting
forth, upon knowledge or information and belief, any facts
tending to show that money or other personal property,
which ought to be delivered to the petitioner, or which
ought to be included in an inventory or appraisal, is in the
possession, under the control or within the knowledge or
information of a person who withholds the same from him,
or who refuses to impart any knowledge or information ho
may have concerning the same, or to disclose any other
fact which will in any way aid such cxec.noror adminis
trator in making discovery of such property, so that it can
not be inventoried or appraised ; and praying an inquiry
respecting it, and that the person complained of may be
cited to attend the inquiry and to be examined accordingly.
The petition may be accompanied with an affidavit or other
evidence, written or oral, tending to support the allegations
thereof. If the surrogate is satisfied, upon the papers so
presented, that there are reasonable grounds for the inquiry,
he must issue a citation accordingly, which may be made
returnable forthwith, or at a future time fixed by the sur
rogate, and may be served at any time before the hearing.
§ 2707. "Where the person or any of the persons, to be
cited, does not reside, or is not within the county of the
surrogate, the citation may, in the surrogate'u discretion,
require him to appear at a specified time, at a place within
the county where he resides or is served, before a judge, a
justice of the peace, or a referee, designated in the citation,
or before the surrogate of that county.
§ 2708. The surrogate must annex to or indorse upon
the citation, an order, requiring the party cited to attend,
personally, at the time and place therein specified. The
citation and order must be personally served ; and service
thereof is ineffectual, unless it is accompanied with payment
or tender of the sum, required by law to be paid or tendered
to a witness, who is subpoenaed to attend a trial in the
supreme court. A failure to attend, as required by a cita
tion and order personally served, may be punished as a
contempt of the court.

{ 1202 Con§ 2709. If the surrogate is absent, the petition may be
sol. Act.
presented to the county judge, the special county judge, or

the special surrogate, or to a justice of the supreme court,
or a judge of a superior city court within his city, or, ex
cept in New York or Kings county, to the mayor or re
corder of a citv within the surrogate's county. The officer,
to whom it is so presented, has the same power as the sur
rogate, with respect to all the proceedings, and must issue
a citation and an order, returnable before him, or as pre
scribed in the last two sections. He may, at any stage of
the proceedings, make an order transferring them to the surrogate, who must thereupon complete them, in like
manner, as if he had issued the citation.
§ 2710. [Am'd 1881.] Upon the attendance of a person, J Pf1?;,?65to whom a citation is issued, as prescribed in this article, £5 ^j y'
lie must be sworn to answer truly all questions put to him state Rep.
touching the inquiry prayed for in the petition ; anil he may
318be examined fully and at large, respecting any money or
other property of the decedent, or of which the decedent
had possession at the time of, or within two years before,
his death. A refusal to be sworn, or to answer any ques
tion which the ofliccr conducting the examination deter
mines to be proper, is punishable by the officer or referee
conducting the examination, in the manner as a like refusal
by a witness subpu'nacd to attend a hearing before the sur
rogate. In case the person so ci ted shall interpose a written
answer, duly verified, that he is the owner of said prop
erty, or is entitled to the possession thereof by virtue of
any lien thereon or special properly therein, the surrogate
shall dismiss the proceeding as to such property so claimed.
§ 2711. [Am'dlSSt.] After the examination of all the
parties cited is completed, unless one or more of them give
security, as prescribed in the next section but one, either
party may produce further evidence, in like manner and
with like effect as upon a trial, in the absence of the answer
provided for in the last section.
§2712. Where it appears to the surrogate or other of
ficer who issued the citation, from the examination and
other testimony, if any, that there is re;ison to suspect,
that money or other property of the decedent is withheld
or concealed by the person cited, he must, unless that per
son gives security, as prescribed in the next section, make
a decree, reciting the ground of making it, and requiring
the person cited to deliver possession of the money or other
property to the petitioner. The decree must specify the
sum of money or describe the other property. Where it is
made by an officer, other than the surrogate or temporary
surrogate, it must be entered, and may be enforced, as a
decree of the surrogate's court.
§ 2713. The security, to be given as prescribed in the 5Dem. 8.
last section, must be a bond to the petitioner, executed by
the person cited, with such sureties and in such a penalty
as the surrogate approves ; describing the property or spe
cifying the sum of money ; and conditioned that the princi
pal in the bond will pay to the obligee, or his successor,
the money ; or that he will deliver to him the property, or,
in default thereof, pay to the obligee the full value of the
property, and, in either case, that be will pay all damages
awarded against him for withholding the property, when
ever it is determined, in an action or special proceeding
to be brought by the obligee or hi.i successor, that it be
longs to the estate of the decedent. Upon the presentation
of such a bond, and the pay ment of the costs, if any, which
the surrogate or other officer awards to the petitioner,
within such a time as the surrogate or other officer fixes
for that purpose , an order must be made, dismissing the
proceedings.
§ 2714. Where the decree requires the person cited to
deliver money, disobedience thereto may be punished as a
contempt of the court. Where it requires him to deliver
possession of other property, a warrant must be issued,
upon the application of the petitioner, directed to the
sheriff, or, generally, to any constable of the county, or
any marshal of the city, where the property may be found ;
commanding him to search for it ; to seize it, if it is found
in the possession of the person cited, or his agent, or a person
deriving title from him since the presentation of the peti
tion, and for that purpose, if necessary, to break open any
house in the day time ; to deliver the property so seized, to
the petitioner ; and to return the warrant within sixty days
thereafter. If the decree was made by the surrogate or
temporary surrogate, the warrant must be under the seal
of the surrogate's court ; if by any other officer, it must be
under his hand, and returnable before him. The issuing of
such a warrant does not affect the power of the court to
enforce the decree, or any part thereof, by punishing a dis
obedience thereto.
§ 2715. A creditor, or person interested in the estate,
may present to the surrogate's cour( proof, by affidavit,
that an executor or administrator has failed to return an
inventory or a sufficient inventory, within the time pre
scribed by law therefore. Thereupon, if the surrogate is
satisfied that the executor or administrator is in default, he
must make an order, requiring the delinquent to return the
inventory, or a further inventory ; or, in default thereof,
to show cause, at a time and place therein specified, why
be should not be attached. Upon the return of the order,
if the delinquent has not filed a sufficient inventory, the
surrogate must issue a warrant of attachment against him,
upon which the proceedings are the same, as upon a war
rant issued for disobedience to an order, as prescribed in
title twelfth of chapter seventeenth of this act.
§ 2716. A person committed to jail, upon the return
of a warrant of attachment, issued as prescribed in the last
section, may be discharged by the surrogate, or a justice
of the supreme court, upon his paying and delivering,
under oath, all the money and other property of the dece
dent, and all papers relating to the estate, under his con
trol, to the surrogate, or to a person authorized by the sur
rogate to receive the same.
§ 2717. In either of the following cases, a petition may
be presented to the surrogate's court, praying for a decree
directing an executor or administrator to pay the petition
er's claim, and that he may be cited to show cause, why
such a decree should not be made :
1. By a creditor, for the payment of a debt, or of its
just proportional part, at any time after six months havo
expired since letters were granted.
2. By a person entitled to a legacy, or any other pecuni
ary provision under the will, or a distributive share, for the
payment or satisfaction thereof, or of its just proportional
part, at any time after one year has expired since letters
■were granted.
§ 2718. Upon the presentation of a petition, as pre
scribed in the last section, the surrogate must issue a cita
tion accordingly ; and, upon the return thereof, he must
make such a decree in the premises, as justice requires. Bu*
in either of the following cases, the decree must dismiss the
petition, without prejudice to an action or an accounting,
in behalf of the petitioner :
1. Where the executor or administrator files a written
answer, duly verified, setting forth facts which show that
it is doubtful, whether the petitioner's claim is valid and
legal, and denying its validity or legality, absolutely, or
upon information and belief.
2. Where it is not proved, to the satisfaction of the sur
rogate, that there is money or other personal property of the
estate, applicable to the payment or satisfaction of the peti
tioner s claim, and which- may be so applied, without in
juriously affecting the rights of others, entitled to priority
or equality of payment or satisfaction.
§ 2719. In a case specified in subdivision second of the
last section but one, the surrogate may, in his discretion,
entertain the petition, at any time after letters are granted,
although a year has not expired. In such a case, if it ap
pears, upon the return of the citation, that a decree for pay
ment may be made, as prescribed in the last section ; and
that the amount of money, and the value of the other prop
erty, in the hands of the executor or administrator, appli
cable to the payment of debts, legacies, and expenses, ex
ceed, by at least one-third, the amount of all known debts
and claims against the estate, of all legacies which arc en
titled to priority over the petitioner's claim, and of all
legacies or distributive share.-! of the same cla«s ; and that
the payment or satisfaction of the legacy, pecuniary pro
vision, or distributive share, or some part thereof, is neces
sary for the support or education of the petitioner ; the
surrogate may, in his discretion, make a decree, directing
payment or satisfaction accordingly, upon the filing of a
bonrl, approved by the Miirojratc, conditioned as prescribed
by law, with ropect to a liond which an executor, or an
administrator with the will annexed, may require from a
legatee, upon payment or cati-fact on of a legacy, before
the expiration of one year from the time when letter* were
issued, pursuant to a direction to that effect, contained in
the will.
| 2720. [Am'dlffiil.] Where an executor or administrator has failed to set apart property for a surviving husband1
wife or child, as prescribed by law, the person aggrieved
may present a petition to the surrogate's court, setting fortL
the failure, and praying for a decree, requiring sucli execu
tor or administrator to set apart the property accordingly;
• or, if it has been lost, injured or disposed of, to pay tie
value thereof, or the amount of the injury thereto, and that
he may be cited to show cause why such a decree should
not be made. If the surrogate is of the opinion that suffi
cient cause is shown, he must issue a citation accordingly.
Upon the return of the citation, the surrogate must make
such a decree, in the premises, as justice requires. In a
proper case, the decree may require the executor, person
ally, to pay the value of the property or the amount of the
injury thereto.
§ 2721. The decree, made upon a judicial settlement of
the account of, an executor or administrator, may award to a
surviving husband, wife, or child, the same relief which
may be awarded, in his or her favor, upon a petition pre
sented as prescribed in the last section.
§ 2722. An executor or administrator may, at any time,
voluntarily file in the surrogate's office an intermediate ac
count, and the vouchers in support of the same.
§ 2723. In either of the following cases, the surrogate
may, in his discretion, make an order, requiring an execu
tor or administrator to render an intermediate account :
1. Where an application for an order, permitting an exe
cution to issue upon a judgment against the executor or
administrator, has been made by the judgment creditor,
as prescribed in section one thousand eight hundred and
twenty-six of this act.
2. Upon the return of a citation, issued upon the petition
of a judgment creditor, praying for a decree, granting
leave to issue an execution upon, a judgment rendered
against the decedent in his lifetime, as prescribed in section
one thousand three hundred and eighty- one of this act.
3. Upon the return of a citation, issued upon the petition
of a creditor, or person entitled to a legacy, or other pecu
niary provision, or a distributive share, praying for a de
cree directing payment thereof, as prescribed in section two
thousand seven hundred and seventeen of this act.
4. Where eighteen months have elapsed since letters were
issued, and no special proceeding, upon a petition for a
judicial settlement of the executor's or administrator's ac
count, is pending.
§ 2724. [Am'd 1881.] In either of the following cases,
the surrogate's court may, from time to time, compel a judi
cial settlement of the account of an executor or adminis
trator :
1. Where one year has expired, since letters were issued
to him.
2. Where letters issued to him have been revoked, or,
for any other reason, his powers have ceased.
3. Where a decree for the disposition of real property, or
of an interest in real property, has been made, as prescribed
in title fifth of this chapter, and the property, or a part
thereof, has been disposed of by him, pursuant to the
decree.
4. Where he has sold, or otherwise disposed of, any of
the decedent's real properly, or devisable interest in real
property, or the lents, profits, or proceeds thereof, pursuant
to a power contained in the decedent's will, where one year
has elapsed since letters were issued to him.
§ 2725. The surrogate's court may compel a judicial
settlement of the account of a temporary administrator, at
any time. It may also compel a judicial settlement of
the account of a freeholder, appointed to dispose of a de
cedent's real property, or interest in real property, as pre
scribed in title fifth of this chapter, in like manner as where
the same has been disposed of by the executor or adminis
trator,
§2726. A petition, praying for the judicial settlement
of an account, and that the executor or administrator may
he cited to show cause, why he should not render and settle
Ids account, may be presented, in a case prescribed in either
of the last two sections, by a creditor, or a person interested
in the estate or fund, including a child born after the making of a will ; or by any person, in behalf of an infant so interested ; or by a surety in the official bond of the person
required to account, or the legal representative of such a
a surety. Upon the presentation of such a petition, a
citation must be issued accordingly ; except that, in a case
specified in subdivision first of the last section but one, if
the petition is presented within less than eighteen months
after letters were issued to the executor or administrator,
the surrogate may entertain or decline to entertain it, in his
discretion.
§ Month. L.
I 2727. Upon the return of a citation, issued as pre119NY 28 scr'De(l m either of the foregoing sections of this article, if
the executor or administrator fails either to appear, or to
show good cause to the contrary, or to present, in a proper
case, a petition as prescribed in the next section but one, an
order must be made, directing him to account within sucli
a time, and in such a manner as the surrogate prescribes,
and to attend, from time to time, before the surrogate, for
that purpose. The executor or administrator is bound by
such an order, without service thereof. If he disobeys it,
the surrogate may issue a warrant of attachment against
him, and his letters may be revoked, as where a warrant of
attachment is issued to compel the return of an inventory.
If it appears that there is a surplus, distributable to cred
itors or persons interested, the surrogate may, at any time,
issue a supplemental citation, directed to the persons who
must be cited, upon the petition of an executor or adminis
trator for a judicial settlement of his account, and requir
ing them to attend the accounting.
4itwif. 395.
§ 2728. Upon the return of a citation, issued as pre
scribed in either of the foregoing sections of this article, if
one year has expired since letters were issued to the executor
or administrator, he may present a petition as prescribed iu
the next section. A citation, issued upon such a petition,
need not be directed to the petitioner in the special proceed
ing pending against the executor or administrator ; but the
hearing of that special proceeding must be adjourned, until
the return of the citation so issued ; whereupon the two
special proceedings must be consolidated. The consolida
tion does not affect any power of the surrogate, which
might be exercised in either special proceeding.
§ 2729. At any time after the expiration of one year
since letters were issued to an executor or administrator, he
may present to the surrogate's court a written petition,
duly verified, praying that his account may be judicially
settled; and that the creditors, or persons claming to be
creditors, of the decedent, and the decedent's husband or
wife, next of kin and legatees, if any ; or, if either of those
persons has died, his executor or administrator, if any ;
may be cited to attend the settlement. If one of two "or
moTe co-executors or co-administrators presents a petition
for a judicial settlement of his separate account, it must
pray that his co-executors or co-administrators may also be cited. Upon the presentation of a petition, as prescribed in
titis section, the surrogate must issue a citation accordingly.
§ 2730. [Am'd 1881.] Upon the return of a citation,
issued as prescribed in the last section.the surrogate must take
tlie account and hear the allegations and proofs of the parties, respecting the same. Any parly may contest the ac
count, with respect to a matter affecting his interest in the
settlement and distribution of the e.-tate ; and any party
may contest an intermediate account rendered under sec
tion two thousand seven hundred and twenty-three of this
act in case the same shall not be consolidated pursuant to
section two thousand seven hundred and twenty-eight of
this act.
§ 2731. A creditor, or a person interested in the estate,
although not cited, is entitled to appear upon the hearing,
and thus make himself a party to the special proceeding.
§ 2732. Where letters, issued to an executor or admin
istrator, have been revoked, he may present to the surro
gate's court a written petition, duly verified, praying that
his account may be judicially settled, and that his succes
sor, if a successor has been appointed, and the other per
sons specified in section two thousand seven hundred and
twenty-nine of this act, may be cited to attend the settle
ment. The provisions of the last three sections apply to,
and regulate the proceedings upon, such a petition.
§ 2733. To each account, filed with the surrogate, as
prescribed in this article, must be appended the affidavit of
the accounting party, to the effect that the account con
tains, according to the best of his knowledge and belief, a
full and true statement of all his receipts and disbursements
on account of the estate of the decedent ; and of all money
and other property belonging to the estate, which have
come to his hands, or which have been received by any
other person, by his order or authority, for his use ; and that
he does not know of any error or omission in the account,
to Ihe prejudice of any creditor of, or person interested in,
the estate of the decedent.
§ 2734. Upon an accounting by an executor or administrator, the accounting party must produce and file a
voucher for every payment, except in one of the following
cases :
L He may be allowed, without a voucher, any proper
item of expenditure, not exceeding twenty dollars, if it is
supported by his own uncontradicted oath, stating positively
the fact of payment, and specifying when and to whom the
payment was made ; provided that all the items so allowed
against an estate, upon all the accountings of all the ex
ecutors or administrators, shall not exceed five hundred
dollars.
2. If he proves, by his own oath or another's testimony,
that he did not take a voucher when he made the payment or that the voucher then taken by him has been lost or de
stroyed ; he may be allowed any item, the payment of
which he satisfactorily proves by the testimony of the per
son to whom he made it ; or, if that person is dead, or can
not, after diligent search, be found, by any competent evi
dence, other than his own oath, or that of his wife.
But an allowance cannot be made, as specified in this
section, unless the surrogate is satisfied thai the charge is
< orrect and just.
§ 2735. The surrogate may, at any time, make an or
der requiring the accounting party to make and file his
account ; or to attend and be examined under oath, touch
ing his receipts and disbursements ; or touching any other
matter relating to his administration of the estate, or any
act done by him under color of his letters, or after the de
cedent's death, and before the letters were issued ; or
touching any personal property, owned or held by the de
cedent, at the time of his death,
§ 2736. [Am'd 1881.] Where the value of the personal
estate of the decedent amounts to one hundred thousand
dollars, or more, over all his debts, each executor or ad
ministrator is entitled to the full compensation allowed by
law to a sole executor or administrator, unless there are
mora than three, in which case, the compensation, to which
three would be entitled, shall be apportioned among them
according to the services rendered by them respectively ;
and a like apportionment shall be made in all cases where
there shall be more than one executor or administrator.
§ 2737. But where the will provides a specific compen
sation to an executor or administrator, he is not entitled to
any allowance for his services, unless, by a written instru
ment filed with the surrogate, he renounces the specific
compensation.
§ 2738. Where successive or different letters are issued
to the same person, upon the estate of the same decedent,
including a case where letters testamentary or letters of
general administration are issued to a person who has been
previously appointed a temporary administrator, he is en
titled to compensation, in one capacity only, at his election ;
except that where he has received compensation in one
capacity, he is entitled to the excess, if any, of the compen
sation prescribed by law in the other capacity, above the
sum which lie has already received.
§ 2739. Upon a judicial settlement of the account of
an executor or administrator, he may prove any debt owing
to him by the decedent Where a contest arises between
the accounting party and any of the other parties, respect
ing any property alleged to belong to the estate, but to
which the accounting party lays claim ; or respecting a
debt, alleged to be due by the account'ng party to the de
cedent, or by the decedent to the accounMng party ; the
contest must be tried and determined in the same manner
as any other issue, arising in the surrogate's court.
§ 8 740. From the death of the decedent, until the first
judicial settlement of an account of his executor or admin
istrator, the running of the statute of limitations, against a
debt due from the decedent to the accounting party, or any
other cause of action, in favor of the latter against the
decedent, is suspended, unless the accounting party was ap
pointed upon the revocation of former letters issued
to another person ; in which case, the running of the stat
ute is so suspended, from the grant of letters to him, until
the first judicial settlement of his account. After the first
judicial settlement of the account of an executor or admin
istrator, the statute of limitations begins again to run
against a debt due to him from the decedent, or any other
cause of action in his favor against the decedent.
§ 2741. Upon a judicial settlement of the account of an
executor or administrator, the surrogate may allow the
accounting party, for property of the decedent, perished or
lost without the fault of the accounting party.
§ 2742. A judicial settlement of the account of an executor or administrator, either by the decree of the surrogate's court, or upon an appeal therefrom, is conclusive
e\idence, against all the parties who were duly cited or
appeared, and all persons deriving title from any of them
at any time, of the following facts, and no others :
1. That the items allowed to the accounting party, for
money paid to creditors, legatees, and next of kin, for
necessary expenses, and for his services, are correct.
2. That the accounting party has been charged with all
the interest for money received by him, and embraced in
the account, for which he was legally accountable.
3. That the money charged to the accounting party, as
collected, is all thit was collectible, at the time of the set
tlement, on the debts stated in the account.
4. That the allowances made to the accounting party, for
the decrease, and tiie charges against him for the increase,
in the value of property, were correctly made.
§ 2743. Where an account is judicially settled, as presciibed in this article, and any part of the estate remains,
and is ready to lte distributed to the creditors, legatees,
next of kin, husband, or wife of the decendent, or their assigns, the decree must direct the payment and distribution
thereof to the ]>ersons so ( nlilli-d, according to their respec
tive rights. If any person, who is a necessary party for
that purpose, has not liwn cited or has not appeared, a
supplemental citation must be k"iied, as pn-scrilx-d in sec
tion two thousand seven hundred and twenty -seven of this
act. Where the validity of a debt, claim or distributive
share, is not disputed or has been established, the decree
must determine to whom it is payable, the sum to lie paid
by reason thereof, and all other questions concerning the same. With respect to the matter enumerated in this sec
tion, the decree is conclusive upon each party to the special
proceeding, who was duly cited or appeared ; and upou
every person deriving title from such a party.
§ 2744. In either of the following cases, the decree
may direct the delivery of an unsold chattel, or the assign
ment of an uncollected demand, or any other personal
property, to a party or parties entitled to payment or dis
tribution, in lieu of the money value of the property :
1. Where all the parties interested, who have appeared,
manifest their consent thereto by a writing filed in the sur
rogate's office.
2. Where it appears that a sale thereof, for the purpose
of payment or distribution, would cause a loss to the parties
entitled thereto.
The value must be ascertained, if the consent does not
, fix it, by an appraisement under oath, made by one or more
persons appointed by the surrogate for the purpose.
§ 2745. Where an admitted debt of the decedent Is not
yet due, and the creditor will not accept present payment,
with a rebate of interest ; or where an action is pending be
tween the executor or administrator, and a person claiming
to be a creditor of a decedent ; the decree must direct that
a sum, sufficient to satisfy the claim, or the proportion to
which it is entitled, together with the probable amount of
the interest and costs, be retained in the hands of the ac
counting party ; or be deposited in a safe bank, or trust
company, subject to the surrogate's order ; or be paid into
the surrogate's court, for the purpose of being applied to
the payment of the claim, when it is due, recovered, or set
tled ; and that so much thereof, and is not needed for that
purpose, be afterwards distributed according to law.
§2746. [Am'd 1886.] When a legacy or distributive
share is payable to an infant, the decree may, in the discre
tion of the surrogate's court, direct it, or so much of it as
may be necessary, to be paid to his general guardian, to be
applied to his support and education ; or when it does not
exceed fifty dollars, the decree may order it to be paid to
his father, and if his father be dead, then to his mother, for
the use and benefit of such infant. Said court may, in its
discretion, by its decree, direct any legacy or distributive
share, or [ art of a legacy or distributive share, not paid or
applied as aforesaid, which is payable to an infant, to be
paid to the general guardian of such infant, upon his exe
cuting and depositing wjth the surrogate in his office, a
bond running to such infant, with two or more sufficient
sureties, duly acknowledged and approved hy the surrogate,
in double the amount of such legacy or distributive share,
conditioned that such general guardian shall faithfully
apply such legacy or distributive share, and render a true
and just account of the application thereof, in all respects,
to any court having cognizance thereof, when thereunto required, the sureties in which bond shall justify as re
quired in this act. The said court may, in its discretion,
from time to time, authorize or direct such general guar
dian to expend such part of such legacy or distributive
share, in the support, maintenance ana education of such
infant as it deems necessary. On such infant's coming
twenty-one years of age, he shall be entitled to receive, and
his general guardian shall pay or deliver to him, under the
direction of the surrogate's court, the securities so taken,
and the interest or other monies that may have been paid to
or received by such general gunrdian. after deducting there
from such amounts as have been paid or expended in pur
suance of the orders and decrees of said court, so made as
aforesaid and the legal commissions of such guardian; and
the said general guardian shall be liable to account in and
under the direction of the surrogate's court, to his ward,
for the same ; in case of the death of said infant, before
coming of age, the said securities and monies, after making
the deductions aforesaid, shall go to his executors or ad
ministrators, to be applied and distributed according to law,
and the general guardian shall in like manner be liable to
account to such administrator or executor. If there be no
general guardian, or if the surrogate's court do not order
or decree the payment or disposition of the legacy or dis
tributive share in some of the ways above described, then
the legacy or distributive share, or part of the same not dis
posed of as aforesaid, whether the same consists of money
or securities, shall, by the order or decree of the surrogate's
court, be paid and delivered to and deposited in said court,
by paying and delivering the same to and depositing it with
the county treasurer of the county, to be held, managed,
invested, collected, reinvested and disposed of by him, as
prescribed and required by section two thousand five hun
dred and thirty-seven of this act. The regulations con
tained in the general rules of practice, as specified in section
seven hundred and forty-four of this act, and the provisions
of title three of chapter eight of this act apply to money,
legacies and distributive shares paid to and securities depos
ited with the county treasurer, as prescribed in this section;
except that the surrogate's court exercises with respect
thereto, or with respect to a security in which any of the
money has been invested, or upon which it has been loaned,
the power and authority conferred upon the supreme court by
section seven hundred and forty-seven of this act. Sections
forty-six, forty-seven, forty-eight, forty-nine, fifty and fiftyone of part two, chapter six, title three, article two, of the
Revised Statutes, are repealed.
| 2747. Where the person entitled to a legacy or dis- ioin.y.082.
tributive share is unknown, the decree must direct the
executor or administrator to pay the amount thereof into
the treasury of the State, for the benefit of the person or
persons who may thereafter appear to be entitled thereto.
The surrogate, or the supreme court, upon the petition of J
person claiming to be so entitled, and upon at least fourtien
days' notice to the Attorney-General, accompanied with a
copy of the petition, may by a reference, or by directing
the trial of an issue by a jury, or otherwise, ascertain the
rights of the persons interested, and grant an order directing
the payment of any money, which appears to be due to the
claimant, but without interest, and deducting all expenses
incurred by the Slate with respect to the decedent's estate.
The comptroller, upon the production of a certified copy of
the order, must draw his warrant upon the treasury, for
the amount therein directed to be paid ; which must be paid
by the State treasurer, to the person entitled thereto.
ir'i£l!!>° N'
§ 2748. The decree must also direct the executor
C. 188n.
or administrator to pay to the county treasurer a legacy
or distributive share, which is not paid to the person
entitled thereto, at the expiration of two years from the
time when the decree is made, or when the legacy or dis
tributive share is payable by the terms of the decree. The
money, so paid to the county treasurer, can be paid out by
him only by the special direction of the surrogate ; or pur
suant to the judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction
§ 2749. Real property, of which a decedent died seized,
and the interest of a decedent in real property, held by him
under a contract for the purchase thereof, made either with
hkn, or with a person from whom he derived his interest,
may be disposed of, for the payment of his debts and funeral
expenses, as prescribed in this title ; except where it is de
vised, expressly charged with the payment of debts or fun
eral expenses, or is exempt from levy and sale by virtue
of an execution, as prescribed in title second of chapter
thirteenth of this act. The expression, " funeral expenses ",
a^ used in this title, includes a reasonable charge for a suit
able headstone.
§ 2750. [Am'd 1885.] At anytime within three years
after letters were first duly granted within the State, upon
the estate of a decedent, an executor or administrator,
whether sole, or joined in the letters wi;h another, other
than a temporary administrator ; or a creditor of the dece
dent, other than a creditor by a judgment or a mortgage,
which is a lien upon the decedent's real property ; may
present to the surrogate's court from which letters were is
sued, a written petition, duly verified, praying for a decree
directing a disposition of the decedent's real property, or
interest in real property, specified in the last section, or so
much thereof as is necessary for the payment of his debts
or funeral expenses, by the mortgage, lease or sale at public
or private sale thereof ; and that the parties named in the
petition and all other necessary parties as prescribed in the
subsequent sections of this title, may be cited to show cause
why such a decree should not bo made.
§2751. [^1t»'(Z1887.] The time, during which an action
is-pending in a court of record, between a creditor and an
executor or administrator of the estate, is not a part of the
time limited in the last section, for presenting a petition, founded upon a debt, which was in controversy in the ac
tion ; if the creditor has, before the expiration of the time so
limited, filed, in the clerk's office of the county where tin
real property is situated, a notice of the pendency of the
action specifying the names of the parties, the object of the
action and, if the creditor's debt is made the foundation of
a counterclaim, the nature of the counterclaim ; containing
a description of the property in that county to be affected
thereby ; and stating that it will be held, as security for
any judgment obtained in the action. A notice so filed
must be recorded and indexed, and may be canceled, as
prescribed, with respect to the notice of pendency of an ac
tion, in article ninth of title first of chapter fourteen of this
act. It may also be canceled in like manner, or a specified
portion of the property affected thereby, may be discharged
from the lien thereof, by the order of the court in which the
action is pending, made upon the application of a person
having an interest in the real property, upon notice to the
creditor and upon such terms as justice requires. When
ever an executor, administrator, or creditor of a deceased per
son shall have commenced, or shall hereafter commence, an
action in any court of competent jurisdiction of this state
for the purpose of setting aside any fraudulent conveyance
of, or incumbiance upon, any real estate of such deceased
person, and such action shall have been decided in favor of
such executor, administrator, or creditor, such executor, ad
ministrator or creditor, may, at any time within three years
after the final determination of such action, have and main
tain an action of proceeding against the proper parties, in
any court of competent jurisdiction of this state, for a sale
of such real estate, and for a distribution of the proceeds of
such real estate among the creditors of such deceased per
son and other persons entitled to the same as may be directed
by the judgment in such action.
§ 2752. The petition must set forth the following mat
ters, as nearly as the petitioner can, upon diligent inquiry,
ascertain them :
1. The unpaid debts of the decedent, and the name of
each creditor, or person claiming to be a creditor ; and the
amount of the unpaid funeral expenses of the decedent, if
any, and the name of each person to whom any sum is due
by reason thereof.
2. A general description of all the decedent's real prop
erty, and interest in real property, within the State, which
may be disposed of as prescribed in this title ; a statement
of the value of each distinct parcel ; whether it is improved
or not ; whether it is occupied or not ; and, if occupied,
the name of each occupant. Where the petit on describes
an interest in real property, specified in section two thousand
seven hundred and forty-nine of this act, the value of the
interest must be stated, and also the value of, and the other
particulars, specified in this section, relating to, tlie re 1
property to which the interest attaches.
2. The names of the husband or wife, and of all the
heirs and devisees of the decedent, and also of every other
person claiming under them, or either of them, stating who,
if any, are infants ; the age of each infant, and the name
of his general guardian, if any ; and also, if the petition
is presented by a creditor, the name of each executor or
administrator.
4. If the petition is presented by an executor or adminis
trator, the amount of personal property which has come to
his hands, and those of his co-executors or co-administrators,
if any ; the application thereof, and the amount which may
yet be realized therefrom.
§ 2753. If, upon diligent inquiry, any of the matters
required to be set forth, as prescribed in the last section,
cannot be ascertained by the petitioner, that fact must be
shown to the surrogate's satisfaction, and the surrogate
must thereupon inquire into the matter, as prescribed in
article first of title second of this chapter. If the petition
is presented by a creditor, the surrogate may, by order,
require the executor or administrator to render such an ac
count or other statement, as he deems necessary for the
purpose of the inquiry.
§ 2754. Where the surrogate is satisfied that all the
facts, specified in the last section but one, have been ascertaiued, as far as they can be upon diligent inquiry, and it
appears to him that the debts and funeral expenses, or
either, cannot be paid, without resorting to the real prop
erty, or interest in real property, he must issue a citation
according to the prayer of the petition. If, upon the in
quiry, it appears to the surrogate that any heir or devisee, or
person claiming an interest in the property under an heir or
devisee, is not named in the petition, the citation must also be
directed to him. Unless the executor or administrator has
caused to be published, as prescribed by law, a notice re
quiring creditors to present their claims, and the time for
the presentation thereof, pursuant to the notice, has elapsed,
the citation must be directed, generally, to all other
creditors of the decedent, as well as to the creditors
named
§ C755. [A?ti'dl887.] Upon the return of the citation,
the surrogate must proceed to hear the allegations and
proofs of the parties. A creditor of the decedent, or a
person having a claim for unpaid funeral expenses, although
not named in the citation may present and prove his debt,
and thus make himself a parly to the special proceeding.
A creditor of the decedent, whose claim is not yet due,
may present and prove his debt, and have the same estab
lished upon a rebate of legal interest, and thus make him
self a party to the special proceeding. An heir or devisee,
or a person claiming under an heir or devisee of the prop
erty in question, although not named in the citation, may
contest the necessity of applying the property to the payment of debts or funeral expenses, or the validity of a debt,
due or undue, represented as existing against the decedent
or the reasonableness of the funeral expenses, may inter
pose any defense to the whole or any part thereof ; and for
that purpose, may make himself a party to the special pro
ceeding. Where such a defense arises under the statute of
limitations, an act or admission by an executor or ad
ministrator does not prevent the running of the statute, or
revive the debt so as to affect in any manner the real prop
erty, or interest in real property in question.
§ 3756. Where a judgment or decree has been rendered
against an executor or administrator, for a debt due from
the decedent, the debt is, nevertheless, deemed a debt of
the decedent, to the same extent, and to be established in
the same manner, and, except as prescribed in the next
section, subject to the same defenses as if an action had
not been brought thereon. But a judgment or decree,
rendered upon a trial upon the merits, is presumptive
evidence of the debt upon the hearing before the surrogate.
§ 2757. The last section is subject to the following ex
ceptions :
1. The debt, for which the judgment was rendered,
cannot be allowed, as against the property in question, at
any greater sum than the amount recovered, exclusive of
costs.
2. An heir or devisee of any of the property in question,
or a party claiming under an heir or devisee, may inter
pose, in reduction of the amount claimed to be due upon a
judgment or decree against the decedent, or against the
executor or administrator, any payment or counterclaim
which might be allowed to him, or to the person under
whom he claims, in an action founded upon the debt.
| 2758. The decree must determine and specify the
amount of each debt established before the surrogate, as a
valid and subsisting debt against the decedent's estate, or
as a just and reasonable charge for funeral expenses, and
must, in like manner, specify what demands presented
have been rejected. The vouchers presented before the
surrogate, in support of each debt established, must be filed
and remain in the surrogate's office.
34 Hun, not.
§ 2759. A decree, directing the disposition of real
property, or of an interest in real property, can be made
oidy where, after due examination, the following facts
have been established to the satisfaction of the surrogate :
1. That the proceedings have been in conformity to this
title.
2. That the debts, for the payment of which the decree,
is made, are the debts of the decedent, or are just and
reasonable charges for his funeral expenses ; and are
justly duo.
3. That they are not secured by a judgment or mortgage,
or expressly charged by the will upon the decedent's real property, or interest in real property ; or, if a debt is so
secured or charged upon a portion of the real property,
or interest in real property, that the remedies of the
creditor, by virtue of that charge or security, have been
exhausted.
4. That the property directed to be disposed of was not
effectually devised, expressly charged with the payment of
debts or funeral expenses, and is not subject to a valid
power of sale for the payment thereof ; or, if so devised or
subject, that it is not practicable to enforce the charge, or
to execute the power, and that the creditor has effectually
relinquished the same.
5. That all the personal property of the decedent, which
could have been applied to payment of the decedent's
debts and funeral expenses, has been so applied ; or that
the executors or administrators have proceeded with reason
able diligence, in convening the personal property into
money, and applying it to the payment of those debts and
funeral expenses ; and that it is insufficient for the pay
ment of the same, aa established by the decree.
§ 2760. [Am'd 1885.] If the facts specified in the last
section are satisfactorily established, the surrogate must in
quire whether sufficient money can be raised, advantage
ously to the persons interested, in the real property, by a
mortgage or lease of the real property of which the dece
dent died seized, or a part thereof. And to that end he shall
appoint three competent disinterested persons to examine
and appraise each parcel of such real property, and its
rental value at its just and fair market value ; they shall
forthwith so appraise the same, make a report thereof,
signed and verified by at least two of them, describing each
parcel, and stating its value and rental value, and file the
same in the surrogate's office. If he ascertains that the
money can be so raised, the decree must direct the execu
tion of one or more mortgages or leases accordingiy ; but a
lease shall not be made for a longer time than until the
youngest person interested in the property leased attains
full age. A mortgage or lease, executed pursuant to such
a decree, has the same effect as if it had been made by the
decedent, immediately before his death.
§ 2761. [Am'd 1885] 'Where it appears to the surrogate
upon the inquiry made as prescribed in the last section,
that sufficient money cannot be raided advantageously to the
persons interested in the real property by mortgage or
lease, the decree must direct a sale of the real property, or
interest in real property, or of so much thereof as is neces
sary, in order to pay the debts and funeral expenses of the
decedent, as established in the d< cree. at public or private
sale. Where a sale of all the real property, or interest in
real property, is not necessary for that purpose, but enough
of either cannot be sold, without manifest prejudice to the
persons interested, the decree may direct a sale of all thy real property, or all the interest in real property, or both, or
of such a part of either as the surrogate thinks proper, at
public or private sale.
§ 2762. Where it appears that any of the real property,
of which the decedent died seized, cannot 1 e sold, -without
manifest prejudice to the persons interested therein, by
reason of a controversy respecting the decedent's title there
to, or interest therein, the decree may direct that the exe
cution thereof, with respect to that property, be postponed,
until the special direction of the surrogate. In that case,
a party may apply at any time afterwards, upon notice to
the others who appeared, for an order directing the execu
tion of the decree, with respect to the property so reserved.
19 Abb. N.
§2763. Where the decree directs the pale of two or
c. 418.
more distinct parcels of real property, of which the dece
dent died seized; or his interest under two or more contracls
for the purchase of distinct parcels of real property ; the
decree may direct the sale to be made, in the order which
the surrogate deems just, unless it appears that one or more
distinct parcels, of which the decedent died seized, have
been devised by him, or sold by his heirs ; in which case,
the several distinct parcels must be sold in the following
order :
1. Property which descended to the decedent's heirs, and
has not been sold by them.
2. Property so descended, which has been sold by them.
8. Property which has been devised, and has not been
sold by the devisee.
4. Property so devised, which has been sold by the de
visee.
§ 2764. Where the decedent's will divises an undivid
ed interest in real property, but not the whole of his estate
therein ; or creates a precedent estate in real property ; or
where an heir of the decedent has sold an undivided inter
est, or created a precedent estate, in real property which
descended to him ; the entire property, to which the undi
vided interest or precedent estate attaches, must be sold.
But, in applying the proceeds to the payment of debts and
funeral expenses, the application of the proportion of the
proceeds, belonging to the devisee or grantee of the undi
vided interest, or of the precedent estate, must be postponed
to the application of the residue, in the order prescribed in
the last section, in like manner, as if that undivided in
terest or precedent estate was a distinct parcel of the prop
erty.
§2765. [Aiti'd 1885.] A decree directing that real
property be mortgaged, leased or sold, or that an interest in
real property be sold, as prescribed in this title, must describe
it with common certainty ; and must direct that a mortfage, lease or sale thereof, for the purpose of paying the
ebts or funeral expenses, established by the decree, be
made by the executor or administrator, upon his giving the bond prescribed by law or In case of his failure so to do, by
a freeholder, to be appointed by the surrogate as prescribed
by law ; and in case a sale thereof be directed, may author
ize the same to be made at private sale, at a price not less
than the value thereof, as appraised pursuant to the provis
ions of section two thousand seven hundred and sixty of
this code.
§ 2766. Before an executor or administrator can execute
a decree, directing that property be mortgaged, leased, or
sold, he must execute, and file with the surrogate, his bond,
with two or more sureties, to the people of the State, in a
penalty, fixed by the surrogate, not less than twice the sum
to be raided, if the decree directs a mortgage; or, if it
directs a lease, in such a penally as the surrogate thinks
proper ; or, if it directs a sale, m a penalty not less than
twice the value of the real property, or interest in real
property, directed to be sold. The bond must be con
ditioned for the faithful performance of the duties im
posed upon the principal by the decree ; for the pay
ment into the surrogate's court, within twenty days after
the receipt thereof, by the principal, of all money arising
from the mortgage, lease, or sale; for the delivery to
the surrogate, within the same time, of all the securities
taken thereupon ; and for the accounting by the principal,
for all money received by him, whenever he is required so
to do, by a court of competent jurisdiction.
§ 2767. Where there are two or more executors or ad
ministrators, if either of them fails, within such time as the
surrogate deems reasonable, to give, or to join with his coexecutors or coadministrators in giving, a bond, as pre
scribed in the last section, the surrogate may direct those
who have given the bond, to proceed to execute the decree.
But if a sole executor or administrator, or all the executors
or administrators so fail, the surrogate must make an order,
appointing a disinterested freeholder to execute the decree.
He may vacate such an appointment, and make a new ap
pointment, from time to time, as the case requires. A person
so appointed must give a bond, in all respects like that re
quired from an executor or administrator, as prescribed in
the last section. In making such an appointment, the sur
rogate must give a preference to a competent person nomi
nated by the creditors, whose debts have been established,
or a majority oi them in number and amount.
§ 2768. Where an executor or administrator, or a free
holder appointed as prescribed in the last section, has given
the requisite bond, an order must be made, reciting the fact,
and directing him to proceed to execute the decree. The
order may direct the execution of the decree, with respect
to all or any part of the real property, or any of the
interests in real property, specified in the decree. Where
it directs the execution of the decree, with respect to
part only, an order to execute it with respect to any other part or parts, may be made from time to time, as the case
requires.
§ 2769. Where the only question, upon an appeal taken
from a decree directing a sale of real property, or of an in
terest in real property, or both, relates to the validity or
amount of a debt established by the decree ; and the real
property directed to be sold, orto which I he interest directed
to be sold attaches, consists of two or more distinct parcel?,
the sale of, or with respect to, one or more of which will
suffice to pay all the other debts so established, leaving
enough real property, or interest in real property, unsold,
to satisfy the claim drawn in question upon the appeal : the
appellate court may, upon the motion of any party to the
special proceeding in the surrogate's court, made upon
notice to all parties to the appeal, direct the surrogate's
court to cause the decree to be executed, with respect to the
distinct parcels of real property, which will suffice to pay
the debts not in controversy ; and the proceeds of a sale,
made pursuant thereto, to be distributed, in like manner as
if the decree related only to thoje parcels and those debts ;
except that any surplus, which may remain for distribution
after payment of those debt<i, or so much thereof as will
suffice to pay the demon 1 in controversy, must be paid into
the surrogate's court and re'aincd by the county treasurer,
subject to the order of the surrogate, to abide the event of
the appeal. But this section does not authorize a sa'e of
any distinct parcel, otherwise than in the order prescribed
for that purpose, in sections two thousand seven hundred
and sixty-four and two thousand seven hundred and sixtyfive of this act.
§ S770. The death, removal, or disqualification, before
the complete execution of a decree, of all the executors or
administrators, who have been directed to execute it, or of
a freeholder appointed for the purpose, does not suspend or
affect the execution thereof ; but the successor of the person
■who has died, been removed, or become disqualified, must
proceed to complete all unfinished matters, as his predeces
sor might have completed the same; and he must give such
security for the due performance of his duties, as the surro
gate prescribes.
§ 2771. The surrogate may, in the order directing the
execution of Mie decree, or in a separate order made before
the sale, allow a sfile to be made upon a credit, not exceed
ing three years, for not more than three-fourths of the pur
chase-money, to be secured by the purchaser's bond, and
his mortgage on the property sold, except where the sale is
that of an interest under a contract ; in which case, the
order may prescribe the security to be given.
§ 277S. [Am'd 1885.] Each distinct parcel of real prop
erty must be sold in the county where it or a part thereof is
situated. The provisions of sections one thousand three
hundred and eighty-four, one thousand three hundred and eighty-five, one thousand three hundred and eighty-six, one
thousand four hundred and thirty-four, one thousand four
hundred and thirty-five and one thousand four hundred
and thirty-six of this act apply to a public sale of real prop
erty, or of an interest in real property, as prescribed in this
title. In making tlie application each provision relating to
the sheriff is deemed to apply to the person making the
sale, pursuant to the decree and the order directing the
execution thereof. A private sale of real property, or of an
interest in real property, must be nude by contract in writ
ing, subject to the approval of the surrogate.
§ 2773. [Am'd 1885.] Where real property to be sold at
public sale consists of one or more distinct parcels, the per
son making the sale must cause each distinct parcel to be
separately exposed for sale, unless otherwise directed in the
decree, or in the order to execute the same, or in an order
subsequently made by the surrogate.
§ 2774. An executor or administrator upon the estate, a
freeholder appointed to execute a decree, or a general or
.special guardian of an infant, who has an interest in any of
ike real property to be sold, shall not, directly or indirectly,
purchase, or be, or, at any time before confirmation, be
come interested in a purchase at the sale ; except that a
guardian may. when authorized so to do by the order of the
surrogate, purchase, in his name of office, for the benefit of
his ward. A violation of this section renders the purchase
void.
§ 2775. [Am'd 1885.] The person making the sale must,
•with all convenient speed file with the surrogate a report of
the sale. The surrogate must upon notice, given in such
manner and for such a lensth of time as he thinks proper,
to each party who has appeared, inquire into the proceed
ings ; and he may take oral testimony respecting the same.
If he is of opinion that the proceedings were unfair ; or
that the sum bid for the whole, or for a distinct parcel of
real property separately sold, or in case of a private sale of
the same, that the sum at which it is agreed to be sold,
was less than the value thereof at the time of sale, and that
a sum exceeding that bid, or in case of a private sale, ex
ceeding that at which it is agreed to be sold at least ten per
centum, exclusive of the expenses of a new sale, may be
obtained upon a resale, —he must make an order vacating
the sals, either wholly or with respect to the distinct parcel
affected, and directing another sale, and whether it shall be
at public or private sale, notice of which, in case of a public
sale thereof, must be given, and the sale must be conducted
as in this title prescribed for a public or private sale as may
be applicable.
§ 2776. Where a sale is not vacated, the surrogate must
make an order confirming it ; and where it is vacated as to
a part only of the property sold, he must make an order
confirming it as to the residue. An order, confirming a making the sale to execute Ok
pr»:v«=r o:crrTii«s. --;•:« comrOanee. on the part of the
p-:ncliii*3- or p-urcb*=ers, w;;h the terms of the sale. The
necessary c«iTrTis«s cim be executed by that person
*ccordin.dy. asd must l-rv^r refer to the decree, the order
to ei«;u:e n. *z.i lie orccr of cv;«nflrmation.
§ 2777. A conveyance of real property, made pursuant
to this title, does not affect, in any way, the title of a pur
chaser or mortgagee, in good faith and for value, from an
heir or devisee of the decedent, unless letters testamentary
or leners of sdniiriistrari : n. upon the estate of the decedent,
were ^ranted, by a surrogate's court having jurisdiction to
grant them, ujx-n a petition therefore, presented within four
years aner his death.
£ 2778. Except as prescribed in the last section, a con
veyance of real property, executed upon a sale thereof, pur
suant to this title, vests in the grantee all the estate, right,
and interest of the decedent in the real property so conveyed,
at the time of his death, free from any claim of his widow
for dower, which has not been assigned to her ; but subject
to all subsisting charges thereon by judgment, mort
gage, or otherwise, which existed at the time of his death.
Where dower has been assigned to the widow, the grantee
takes the part of the property to which her estate in dower
attaches, subject thereto.
§ 2779. 'Where any of the property to be sold consists
of an interest, under a contract for the purchase cf real
property, and any payment is yet to be made upon the con
tract, the sale must be made subject to all payments, there
after to become due thereupon ; and it may, also, if the
decree, or the order to execute the decree, so directs, be
made subject to all payments, previously due thereupon.
If the sale is subject to any payment, the terms of sale
must specify the penalty and the number of sureties, re
quired in the bond to be given by the purchaser, as pre
scribed in the next section, and must state to what payment*
the sale is subject.
§ 2780. Where a sale is made subject to any payments,
as specified in the last section, the purchaser must, before
the sale is confirmed, execute to the executor or adminis
trator of the decedent, his bond, with sureties, for the
benefit and indemnity of the obligee and his successors,
and, also, the persons entitled to the interest of the dece
dent in the lands so contracted for, in a penalty at least twice
the amount of all the payments, subject to which the sale
is made ; conditioned that the purchaser will punctually
make all those payments, and will fully indemnify the
obligee and his successors, and each of the persons so en
titled, against all demands, charges, costs, and expenses,
by reason of anything contained in the contract, or by rea
son of any other obligation or liability of the decedent, on
account of the purchase of the property ; and against all other covenants and agreements of the decedent, to and
•with the vendor of the property, in relation thereto.
§ 2781. But where an interest under a contract for the
purchase of real property is liable to be sold, as prescribed
in this title, the decree, or the order for the execution
thereof, may direct a sale of the decedent's interest in a
part only of the property, if, in the opinion of the surro
gate, such a sale can be made advantageously to the estate
of the decedent, and so that the purchase-money of the
part sold will satisfy and discharge all the payments, to be
made for all the property contracted for, according to the
contract. In such a case, the purchaser is not required to
execute a bond.
§ 2782. A conveyance of the decedent's interest in all the
real property held by him under a contract for the pur
chase thereof, operates as an assignment of the contract to
the purchaser; and vests in him, his heirs and assigns, all
the right, title, and interest of all the persons entitled, at
the time of the sale, in and to the decedent's interest in the
real property.
§ 2 783. A conveyance of the decedent's interest in a
part only of the real property, held under such a contract,
transfers to the purchaser all the decedent's right, title and
interest in and to the part so sold ; and all rights, which
would be acquired thereto, by the executor or administra
tor, or by any person entitled, at the time of the sale, to the
interest of the decedent therein, by perfecting the title to
the property contracted for, pursuant to the contract.
Upon fully complying with the contract, the purchaser has
the same right to enforce performance thereof, with respect
to the part conveyed to him ; and the executor or adminis
trator, or his assignee, has the same right to enforce per
formance, with respect to the residue, as the decedent
would have had, if he was living. Any title acquired by
the executor or administrator, or his assignee, with respect
to the part not sold, must be held in trust for the use of the
persons entitled to the decedent's interest ; subject to the
dower of the widow, if any.
§ 2784. The title of a purchaser in good faith, at a sale 84 Hun 501
pursuant to a decree made as prescribed in this title, is not,
nor is the validity of a mortgage or lease made as prescribed
in this title, in any way affected by any of the following
omissions, errors, defects, or irregularities ; except so far as
the same would affect the title of a purchaser at a sale,
made pursuant to the directions contained in a judgment,
rendered by the supreme court in an action :
1. Where a petition was presented, and the proper per
sons were duly cited, and a decree directing a mortgage or
lease, or a decree for a sale, and an order directing the exe
cution thereof were made, as prescribed in this title ; and
the decree, and the order, if any, were duly recorded, as
prescribed in article first of title first of this chapter : by any omission, error, defect, or irregularity, occurring be
tween the return of the citation, and the making of the
decree, or ibe order directing the execution of the decree :
2. "Where an order, confirming a sale and directing a
conveyance, has been made, upon proof, satisfactory to
the surrogate, that all the acts have been done, which are
required by law to be done, after the order directing the
execution of the decree, to authorize the surrogate to make
such an order of confirmation : by the actual omission to
do such an act, or by any error, defect, or irregularity in
the same, or by any omission m the recitals of the convey
ance.
£ 2785. Where the records of the surrogate's court have
been heretofore, or are hereafter, removed from one place
to another, in either the same or another county, and
twenty-five years have elapsed after a sale or other disposi
tion of real property, or.of an interest in real property, as
prescribed in this title, the due appointment of a guardian
for each infant party to the special proceeding must be
presumed, and can be disproved only by affirmative re
cord evidence to the contrary.
§ 2786. The proceeds arising from a mortgage, lease,
or sale, made as prescribed in this title, must be paid into
the surrogate's court by the executor, administrator, or
freeholder receiving the same. For that purpose, he must pay
them to the county treasurer, to the credit of the special pro
ceeding, to be retained by him as prescribed in section two
thousand five hundred and thirty-seven of this act. Upon
payment being so made, the heirs and devisees of the de
cedent, an:l their assigns, and all the decedent's remaining
real property, and interest in real property, held under a
contract for the purchase thereof, are exonerated from the
debts established by the decree, or established as prescril>ed
in the next section but one. as far as the proceeds so paid
over are sufficient, after deducting the costs and expenses
allowed by the surrogate, to satisfy those debts.
§ 2787. Immediately after the payment into court of
the proceeds of a mortgage, lease, or sale, as prescribed in
the last section, the surrogate must cause notice of the time
and place of making the distribution, to be published, at
least once in each of the six weeks immediately preceding
the same, in a newspaper published in the county of the
surrogate.
§ 2788. At the time and place designated in the
notice, or at the time and place to which the hearing
is adjourned, the surrogate must hear the allegations
and proofs of the creditors, and of the persons in
terested in the estate, or in the application of the
proceeds, respecting any demands against the decedent, or
for his funeral expenses, then presented, which had not
been established or rejected, before making the decree.
The provisions of this title, relating to contesting and establishing debts, and preserving the evidence thereof, be
fore making the decree, apply to the proceedings respecting
any demand so presented. A debt, which was established
by the decree, may be again controverted, upon the hearing
provided for in this section, upon the discovery of new evi
dence impeaching the same, and upon such a notice to the
claimant, as the surrogate directs, but not otherwise.
§ 2789. Where the decree was executed with respect to
a part only of the real property, or interests in real property,
specified therein, and the proceeds of the sale are insufficient,
after paying the costs and expenses thereof, to satisfy all the
debts established by the decree, together with the demands
established as prescribed in the last section, and all other
sums payable out of the same, as prescribed in this title, the
surrogate must make an order, as prescribed in section two
thousand seven hundred and sixty-eight of this act, direct
ing the execution of the decree, with respect to the re
mainder, or so much thereof as is necessary. The proceed
ings thereupon and subsequent thereto are the same, as
upon and subsequent to the first order for the execution of
the decree.
§ 2790. Upon the hearing, provided for in the last section
but one, or upon the hearing after the further execution of
the decree, as prescribed in the last section, the surrogate
must also hear the allegations and proofs of any person,
who claims a right to the suplus money, or any part thereof.
A claim so made may be contested by any other person
making a like claim.
§2701. The surrogate must, by a supplementary de
cree, made and recorded in like manner as the first decree,
determine the rights of the creditors and other persons in
terested, to share in the proceeds, and direct the distribu
tion thereof accordingly. Where the rights of creditors are
established, and there is a surplus, respecting the distribu
tion of which a contest arises, he may make a supplement
ary decree, providing for the payment of the creditors
only; and reserving all questions, as to the distribution of
the surplus, to be settled by a second supplementary decree.
An appeal may be taken from either of the supplementary
decrees, by any person aggrieved thereby, as from the first
decree ; except that it is not necessary or proper, to make
any creditor a party to an appeal from the second supple
mentary decree.
§ 2792. Each supplementary decree must fix the sum
to be paid or invested, as prescribed in the following sec
tions of this title, as far as they can be then fixed. If any
sum cannot be then fixed, it may be fixed by the order of
the surrogate subsequently made. Tbe surrogate must
cause a certified copy of each supplementary decree, and
of each order, to be delivered to the county treasurer,
who must distribute, pay over, or invest the proceeds in his
bands, as directed thereby.
§ 8793. [Am'd 1886.] Money paid into the surrogate's
court, as prescribed in this title, must be distributed by the
supplementary decree in the following order :
1. The charges and expenses of the mortgage, lease, or
sale, and of the publication of the notice of distribution,
and the other actual disbursements attending the distribu
tion, must first be paid.
2. Where an interest under a contract for the purchase of
real property was sold, all sums of money, which were due
at the time of the sale, pursuant to the contract, and were
not assumed by the purchaser, must next be paid out of
the proceeds of the sale of that interest
3. Out of the remainder of the money arising upon a
sale.the claim of dower of the decedent's wife, if any,which
has not been assigned to her must be satisfied, by setting
apart, for investment, one third of the gross proceeds of
the property, to which her right of dower attaches ; unless,
within such time, and upon such a notice to her, as the sur
rogate deems reasonable, she presents an instrument under
seal, acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like manner
as a deed to be recorded in the county, whereby she con
sents to accept, in lieu of her dower, a sum, to be ascer
tained by the surrogate, equal to the value of her right of
dower in the gross proceeds, according to the principles
applicable to life annuities; and, if she presents such an
instrument, by paying to her such a sum. If it shall appear
to the surrogate that the decedent's widow is an infant,
lunatic, or otherwise incompetent, and that a general
guardian or committee has been appointed, upon proof
that it will be for the best interest and advantage of the
estate of such infant, lunatic, or incompetent widow, the
surrogate must authorize and direct such guardian or com
mittee in the name of such infant, lunatic or incompenent
widow, having such dower right, to execute an instrument
under seal, acknowledged or proved and certified in like
manner as a deed to be recorded in the county, whereby
such guardian or committee shall consent to accept in lieu
of dower a sum to be ascertained by the surrogate as above
provided according to the principles applicable to life
annuities ; and upon presentation of such an instrument to
the surrogate, the value of the right of dower so ascer
tained by him shall be paid by such guardian or commttee.
Such instrument shall have the same force and effect as a
deed or instrument executed and acknowledged by a com
petent person.
1 Conn. 157.
4. Out of the remainder of the money, arising upon a
mortgage, lease, or sale, must be paid the costs of the
special proceeding, awarded to the petitioner in the decree.
« Dem. 1*8.
5. Out of the remainder of the money, must be paid the
sum, if any, which has been found to be due to the execu
tor or administrator, upon a judicial settlement of his ac
count, after applying thereupon the proceeds of the personal property. Rut this subdivision does not authorize the re
payment, to an executor or administrator, of any sum paid
by him to a creditor of the decedent, exceeding the propor
tion which that creditor would be entitled to receive from
the estate of the decedent, upon the distribution of all the
assets of the decedent, and the proceeds of property disposed
of as prescribed in this title.
6. Out of the remainder of the money, must be paid, in
full, the reasonable funeral expenses of the decedent, to the
persons whose claims therefore were established and recited
as debts, in the first degree, and were not rejected upon the
second hearing.
7. Out of the remainder of the money, must be paid, in
full, the other debts, which were established and recited in
the first decree, and were not rejected upon the second hear
ing ; or, if there is not enough for that purpose, they, or so
much thereof as the money applicable thereto will pay,
must be paid in the order prescribed by law for payment
of a decedent's debts by an executor or administrator out of
the personal assets, without giving preference to rent, or to
a specialty, or to any demand on account of an action pend
ing thereupon ; and paying debts not yet due, upon a rebate
of legal interest.
8. Out of the remainder of the money, must be paid, in
like manner, the debts first established by the supplemen
tary decree, or so much thereof as the remainder will pay.
9. If any surplus remains, it must he distributed among
4he heirs and devisees of the decedent, or the persons claim
ing under them, and among those persons who have pre
sented and proved liens upon the interests pf those heirs or
devisees, or persons claiming under them, which were cut
off by the sale ; according to their respective rights and
priorities, as established in the supplementary decree. Rut
if the proceeds of any of the property sold had been, or
were to be, converted into personal property, pursuant to a
direction contained in the decedent's will, the surplus pro
ceeds of that part of the property must be paid to the person
entitled thereto, by the terms of the will.
§ 2794. The claim of dower of the decedent's wife, in
real properly held by the decedent, under a contract for the
purchase thereof, which must be satisfied, as prescribed in
subdivision third of the last section, extends only to the
annual interest, during her life, upon one-third of the bal
ance remaining, after deducting from the money arising
upon the sale, all sums due from the decedent, at the time
of the sale, for the real property so contracted and sold.
§ 2795. The surrogate must cause a sum set apart for a
widow's dower, as prescribed in the last two sections, to be
invested by the county treasurer, under the direction of the
surrogate, in the public securities of the State, or of the
United States, or in permanent mortgage securities, bearing
interest payable annually, or ofteuer. The interest, or other
income, must be paid by the county treasurer to the widow,
during her life. After her death, the county treasurer, tin
der the direction of the surrogate's court, manifested in an
order duly entered, must sell the public securities, or collect
the sums loaned upon mortgage, and distribute the pro
ceeds, less the costs and expenses, as prescribed in the last
section but one, for the distribution of the remainder of the
money, after satisfying the claim for dower.
§ 2796. [Am'd 1882.] Where surplus money is dis
tributable to an infant, or where the interest in the property,
represented by it consisted of a precedent estate and a re
mainder or reversion ; the decree must provide, as the
judgment of the supreme court would provide, in an
analogous case, for the investment of the money in the
public securities of the state, or of the United States ; or
for the loan thereof, secured by bond and by mortgage
upon unincumbered real property within the state, worth
at least, exclusive of buildings thereupon, twice the sum
lent ; and for the payment of the income, until the major
ity of the infant or the determination of the temporary
interest ; and then, for the payment of the principal to the
person or persons entitled thereto. Or where surplus
money is distributable to an infant, the decree may, in the
discretion of the surrogate, direct that the same be paid to
his general guardian upon the latter giving such additional
security, if any, as the surrogate directs, or if it is one
hundred dollars or less, that it be deposited by the county
treasurer in a savings bank or trust company, designated
by the surrogate, and that the interest or income thereof he
applied to the use of the infant until its majority.
§ 2797. The commencement or pendency of an action
or special proceeding, having for its object the sale, either
absolutely or contingently, of property liable to be dis
posed of as prescribed in this title ; or the foreclosure by
advertisement, of a mortgage thereupon ; or any proceeding
to sell such property, taken pursuant to a judgment, or by
virtue of an execution, does not affect any of the proceed
ings taken as prescribed by this title, unless the surrogate
so directs. After making a decree directing a mortgage,
lease, or sale, the surrogate may, and, in a proper case, he
must, stay the order to execute the decree, with respect to
the property affected by the action, or special proceeding,
or by the proceedings then pending, until the determination
thereof, or the further order of the surrogate with respect
thereto. If, in the course thereof, a sale of any of the
property has been made, before making the decree in the
surrogate's court, the decree must provide for the applica
tion of the surplus proceeds belonging to the decedent's
estate. If such a sale is made afterwards, the directions
contained in the decree, relating to the property sold, are
deemed to relate to those proceeds.
§2798. "Where real property, or an interest in real property, liable to be disposed of as prescribed in this title,
is sold, in an action or a special proceeding, specified in the
last section, to satisfy a mortgage or other lien thereupon,
which accrued during the decedent's lifetime ; and letters
testamentary or letters of administration, upon the deced
ent's estate, were, within four years before the sale, issued
from a surrogate's court of the State, having jurisdiction to
grant them ; the surplus money must be paid into the sur
rogate's court from which the letters issued. If the sale
was made pursuant to the directions contained in a judg
ment or order, the surplus remaining after payment of all
the liens upon the property, chargeable upon the proceeds,
which existed at the time of the decedent's death, must be
so paid. If the sale was made in any other manner, the
surplus, exceeding the lien to satisfy which the property
was sold, and the costs and expenses, must, within thirty
days after the receipt of the money from which it accrues,
be so paid over by the peison receiving that money. The
receipt of the surrogate, or the clerk of the surrogate's
court, or the county treasurer, as the case may be, is a
sufficient discbarge to the person paying the money.
§ 2 799. [Am'd 1881 .] Where money is paid into a sur- 4 Redf. 509.
rogate's court, as prescribed in the last section, and a peti- J,1 ££b- Ntion for the disposition of property, as prescribed in this
title, is pending before him ; or is presented at any time
before the distribution of the money ; the money must be
distributed as if it was the proceeds of the decedent's real
property, sold pursuant to the decree. If such a petition
is not pending or presented, or if a decree for the disposi
tion ot the decedent's property is not made thereupon, a
verified petition, praying for a decree, directing the distri
bution of the money among the persons entitled thereto,
may be presented by any of those persons. Each person,
who would be entitled to share in the distribution of the
proceeds of a sale, must be cited to show cause, why such
a decree should not be made. Service of the citation may
be made upon all the persons designated therein, by pub
lishing the same in two newspapers designated as pre
scribed in article first of title second of this chapter, at least
once in each of the four successive weeks immediately pre
ceding the return day thereof, except that personal service
must be made upon the husband, wife, heirs and devisees
of the decedent, and also upon every other person claiming
under them, or either of them, who resides in this State.
Upon the return of the citation, the rights and priorities
of the persons interested must bo established, and a decree
for distribution must be made, as if it was the proceeds of
real property sold.
§ 2800. Except as otherwise specially prescribed in this
title, a security taken or an investment made, pursuant to
any provision thereof, must be taken or made in the name
of the county treasurer, adding his official title, and his successors in office. Each security so taken, and all the
papers connected therewith, or with such an investment,
and each lease, taken as prescribed in this title, must be
immediately delivered to the surrogate for his approval ;
and, when approved by him, must be delivered to the
county treasurer, who must, from time to time, collect the
money due thereupon, and apply it, under the direction of
the surrogate, as prescribed by law for that purpose, or for
the application of the money represented by the security.
§ 2801. Where a decree has been made, for the appli
cation of the proceeds of real property to the payment of
the decedent's debts or funeral expenses, as prescribed in
this title, and assets, which should have been applied
thereto, are afterwards discovered ; or, for any other
reason, money or other personal property of the decedent,
which should have been applied thereto, afterwards comes
to the hands of the executor, administrator, legatee, or next
of kin ; the heir, devisee, or other person aggrieved, may
maintai.i an action to procure re-imbursement therefrom.
8 2802. [Am'd 1885.] Any trustee created by any last
will and testament, or appointed by any competent author
ity to execute any trust created by such last will and testa
ment, may at any time file an intermediate account, and
may also annually render and finally judicially settle his
accounts before the surrogate of the county having juris
diction of the estate or trust, in the manner provided by
law for the final judicial settlement of the accounts of ex
ecutors and administrators, and may for that purpose obtain
and serve in the same manrer the necessary citations re
quiring all persons interested to attend such final settlement;
and the decree of the surrogate on such final settlement may
be appealed from in the manner provided for an appeal
from a decree of a surrogate's court on the final settlement
of the accounts of an executor or administrator, and the like proceedings shall be had on such appeal ; in all such
annual accountings of such trustees, the surrogate before
■whom such accounting may be had shall allow to the trus
tee or trustees the same compensation for his or their ser
vices, by way of commission, as are allowed by law to ex
ecutors and administrators, besides their just and reasonable
expenses therein ; and also the additional allowance pro
vided for in section twenty-five hundred and sixty-two of
this act ; the decree of the surrogate on such final annual
settlement of an account provided for in this section, or the
final determination, decree or judgment of the appellate
tribunal in ca^e of appeal, shall have the same force and
effect as the decree or judgment of any other court of com
petent jurisdiction on the final settlement of such accounts,
and of the matters relating to such trust which shall have
been embraced in such accounts, or litigated or determined
on such settlement.
§ 2803. Upon the petition of a person interested, absolutely or contingently, in the estate or fund in the hands of
a testamentary trustee, or in the application thereof, or of
the income or other proceeds thereof, the surrogate may, in
his discretion, make, at anytime, an order requiring a testa
mentary trustee to render an intermediate account.
§ 2804. Where a person is entitled, by the terms of the
will, to the payment of money, or the delivery of personal
property, by a testamenta y trustee, he may present to the
surrogate's court a written petition, duly verified, setting
forth the facts which entitle bim to the payment or deliv
ery, and praying for a decree, directing payment or delivery
accordingly; and that the testamentary trustee may be
cited to show cause, why such a decree should not be made.
If the petitioner is so entitled, only upon the happening of
a contingency, or after the expiration of a certain time, he
must show in his petition, that his right to the money or
other property has become absolute. Upon the presentation
of the petition, the surrogate musf issue a citation accord
ingly.
§ 2805. Upon the return of a citation, issued as prescribed in the last section, if the testamentary trustee files
a written answer, duly verified, setting forth facts, which
show that it is doubtful, whether the petitioner's claim is
valid and legal, and denying its validity or legality, abso
lutely or upon his information and belief, a decree must be
made, dismissing the petition, without prejudice to an action
in behalf of the petitioner for an accounting ; otherwise,
the surrogate must hear the allegations and proofs of the
parties, and must make such a decree in the premises, as
justice requires. In a proper case, the decree may require
the testamentary trustee, who is unable to deliver personal
property to which the petitioner is entitled, to pay the value
thereof.
§ 2806. Where it appears, upon the presentation of a
petition as prescribed in the last section but one, that a de
cree, made pursuant to the prayer thereof, might affect tie
rights of other persons, with respect to the estate or fvud
held by the testamentary trustee, the citation must also be
directed to those persons. Where that fact appears, upon
the return of the citation, or upon the hearing, and it also
appears presumptively that the petitioner is entitled to a
decree, all the persons, whose rights may be bo affected,
must be brought in by a supplemental citation, before a
decree is made.
4 Month. L.
§ 2807. In either of the following cases, the surrogate's
Bui. 32.
court may, from time to time, compel a judicial settlement
of the account of a testamentary trustee : 1. Where one
year has expired, since the will was admitted to probate.
2. Where the trustee has been removed, or, for any other
reason, his powers have ceased. 3. Where the trusts, or
one or more distinct and separate trusts, created by the
terms of the will, have been executed, or are ready to be
executed ; so that the persons beneficially interested are, by
the terms of tbe will, or by operation of law, entitled to
receive any money or other personal property from the
trustee.
§ 2808. A petition, praying for a judicial settlement, as
prescribed in the last section, and that the testamentary
trustee may be cited to show cause, why he should not ren
der and settle his account, may be presented, by any person
beneficially interested in the execution of any of the trusts ;
or by any person in behalf of an infant so beneficially in
terested ; or by a surety in the bond of the testamentary
trustee, given as prescribed in this title, or by the legal rep
resentative of such a surety. Upon the presentation of the
petition, the surrogate must issue a citation accordingly,
unless the account of the testamentary trustee has been
judicially settled, within a year before the petition is pre
sented ; in which case, the surrogate may, in his discretion,
entertain, or decline to entertain, the petition.
§ 2809. Sections two thousand seven hundred and
. twenty-seven and two thousand seven'hundred and twentyeight of this act apply to the proceedings upon a citation,
issued as prescribed in the last section, and to the testa
mentary trustee to whom the citation is directed.
4 Month. L.
§ 28 1 0. When one year has expired since the probate of
Bui. 32.
the will, or when the trusts, or one or more distinct and
separate trusts, created by the will, have been, or are ready
to be, fully executed, a testamentary trustee may present to
the surrogate's court a- petition, duly verified, setting forth
the facts, and praying that his account may be judicially
settled ; and that all the persons who are entitled, absolutely
or contingently, by the terms of the will, or by operation of
law, to share in the fund, or in the proceeds of property
held by the petitioner, as a part of his trust, may be cited to attend the settlement. Thereupon the surrogate must
issue a citation accordingly. Sections two thousand seven
hundred and twenty- nine, two thousand seven hundred and
thirty and two thousand seven hundred and thirty-one of
this act apply to the proceedings upon the return of a cita
tion, issued as prescribed in this section, and to the testa
mentary trustee whose account is to be settled Any person,
although not named in the citation, who is benefically in
terested in the estate or fund which came to the petitioner's
hands, or in the proceeds thereof, or in the application of
that estate or fund, or of the proceeds thereof, is entitled to
appear upon the hearing, and thus make himself a party to
the special proceeding.
§8811. Sections two thousand seven hundred and thirtyfour to two thousand seven hundred and thirty-seven, both
inclusive, sections two thousand seven hundred and thirtynine to two thousand seven hundred and forty-one both in
clusive, and sections two thousand seven hundred and fortythree, two thousand seven hundred and forty-four, and two
thousand seven hundred and forty-six of this act, apply to
and regulate the like matters, where a testamentary trustee
accounts, as prescribed in this title ; except as otherwise
prescribed in the next two sections. Toeieh account, filed
as prescribed in this title, must be annexed an affidavit, in
the form prescribed in section two thousand seven hundred
and thirty-three of this act, for the affidavit to be annexed
to the account of an executor or administrator ; except that
the expression, "the trust created by the will ", with such
other description of the trust, as is necessary to identify it,
must be substituted in place of the words, " the estate of
the decedent ".
§ 2812. Upon a judicial settlement of the account of a
testamentary trustee, a controversy which arises, respecting
the right of a party to share in the money or other personal
property to be paid, distributed, or delivered over, must be
determined in the same manner as other issues are deter
mined. If such a controversy remains undetermined,
after the determination of all other questions upon which
the distribution of the fund, or the delivery of the personal
property depends, the decree must direct that a sum, suffi
cient to satisfy the claim in controversy, or the proportion
to which it is entitled, together with the probable amount
of the interest and costs, and, if the case so requires, that
the personal property in controversy, be retained in the
hands of the accounting party ; or that the money be de
posited in a safe bank or trust company, subject to the sur
rogate's order, for the purpose of being applied to the pay
ment of the claim, when it is due, recovered or settled. ;
and that so much thereof, as is not needed for that purpose,
be afterwards distributed according to law.
§ 2813. A decree, made upon a judicial settlement of
the account of a testamentary trustee, as prescribed in th:5 title, or the judgment rendered upon an appeal from sucl a
decree, has the same force, as a judgment of the supreme
court to the same effect, as against each party who vras
duly cited or appeared, and every person who would" be
bound by such a judgment, rendered in an action between
the same parties.
2 How. Pr.
§ 2814. A testamentary trustee may, at any time, preN. 8. 888.
sent to the surrogate's court a written petition, duly veri4Dem. 162- fled, praying that his .account may be judicially settled;
that a decree may thereupon be made, allowing him to re
sign his trust, and discharging him accordingly ; and that
all persons who are entitled, absolutely or contingently, by
the terms of the will or by operation of law, to share in the
fund or estate, or the proceeds of any properly held by the
petitioner as a part of his trust, may be cited to show
cause, why such a decree should not be made. The peti
tion must set forth the facts upon which the application is
founded ; and it must, in all other respects, conform to a
petition presented for a judicial settlement of the account
of a testamentary trustee, as prescribed in this title. The
surrogate may, in his discretion, entertain or decline to en
tertain the petition, If he entertains it, the proceedings
must be, in all respects, the same as upon a petition for a
judicial settlement of the petitioner's account, except that,
upon the hearing, the surrogate must first determine,
whether sufficient reasons exist for granting the prayer of
the petition ; and, if he determines that they exist, he must
make an order accordingly, and allowing the petitioner to
account, for the purpose of being' discharged. Upon the
petitioner's fully accounting, and paying all money belong
ing to the trust, and delivering nil books, papers, and other
property of the trust, in his hands, either into the surro
gate's court, or as the surrogate directs, a decree may be
made, accepting his resignation, and discharging him ac
cordingly.
IDem. 171.
§ 2815. Any person, beneficially interested in the exe8 Id. 227.
cution of the trust, may present to the surrogate's court a
written petition, duly verified, setting forth, either upon his
knowledge, or upon his information and belief, any fact,
respecting a testamentary trustee, the existence of which,
if it was interposed as an objection to granting letters tes
tamentary to a person named as executor in a will, would
make it necessary for such a person to give security, in
order to entitle himself to letters ; and praying for a de
cree, directing the testamentary trustee to give security for
the performance of his trust ; and that he may be cited to
show cause, why such a decree should not be made. Upon
the presentation of such a petition, the surrogate must issue
a citation accordingly. Upon the return of the citation, a
decree, requiring the testamentary trustee to give such se
curity, may be made, in a case where a person so named as executor can entitle himself to letters testamentary, only by
giving a bond ; but not otherwise.
§ £816. The security, given as prescribed in the last
section, must be a bond to the same effect, and in the same
form, as an executor's bond.
Each provision of this
chapter, applicable to the bond of an executor, or to the
rights, duties, and liabilities of the parties thereto, or any
of them, including the release of the sureties, and the giv
ing of a new bond, apply to the bond so given, and to the
parties thereto.
§ 2817. In either of the following cases, a person bene
ficially interested in the execution of the trust, may present
to the surrogate's court a written petition, duly verified,
setting forth the facts, and praying for a decree removing a
testamentary trustee from his trust ; and that he may be
cited to show cause, why such a decree should not be
made :
1. Where, if he was named in a will as executor, letters
testamentary would not be issued to him, by reason of his
personal disqualification or incompetency.
?. Where, by reason of his having wasted or improperly
applied the money or other property in his charge, or
invested money in securities unauthorized by law, or
otherwise improvid-ntly managed or injured the property
committed to his charge, or by reason of other misconduct
in the execution of his trust, or dishonesty, drunkenness,
improvidence, or want of understanding, he is unfit for the
due execution of his trust.
8. Where he has failed to give a bond, as required by a
decree, made as proscribe;! in the last two sections ; or has
willfully refused, orwithout gcod cause neglected, to obey,
a direction oF the surrogate, contained in any other decree,
or in an order, ma<'e as prescribed in this title ; or any pro
vision of law, relating to the discharge of bis duty.
§ 2818. [^m'rfl884.] When a sole testamentary trustee
dies or becomes a lunatic, or is by a decree of the surrogate's
court removed or allowed to resign, and the trust has not
been fully executed, the same court may appoint his suc
cessor, unless such an appointment would contravene the
express terms of the will. Where one of two or more testa
mentary trustees dies or becomes a lunatic, or is by decree
of the surrogate's court removed or allowed to resign, a
successor shall not be appointed except where such appoint
ment is necessary in order to comply with the express terms
of the will, or unless the same court or the supreme court
shall be of the orinion that the appointment of a successor
would be for the benefit of the cestui que trust. Unlets
and until a successor is appointed the remaining trustee or
trustees may proceed and execute the trust as fully as if
such trustee or trustees had not died, become a lunatic, been
removed or resigned. Where a decree removing a trustee
or discharging him upon his resignation docs not designate his successor, or the person designated therein does no'.
qualify, the successor murt be appointed and must qualify
in the manner prescribed by law for the appointment anil
qualification of an administrator with the will annexed.
§ 2819. Where the same person is a testamentary trustee,
and also the executor of the will, or an administrator upon
the same estate, proceedings taken by or against him, as
prescribed in this title, do not atfect him as executor or
administrator, or the creditors of, or persons interested in,
the general estate, except in one of the following cases :
1. Where he presents a petition, praying for the revoca
tion of his letters, he may also, in the same petition, set
forth the facts, upon showing which he would be allowed
to resign as testamentary trustee; and may thereupon
pray for a decree allowing him so to resign, and for a citation
accordingly.
2. Where a person presents a petition, praying for the
revocation of letters issued to an executor or administrator ;
and any of the facts set forth in the petition are made, by
the provisions of this title, sufficient to entitle the same
person to present a petition, praying for the removal of a
testamentary trustee ; the petitioner may pray for a decree,
removing the person complained of in both capacities, and
for a citation accordingly.
In either case, proceedings upon the petition for the
resignation or removal, as the case requires, of the testament
ary trustee, and for the judicial settlement of his account,
may be taken, as prescribed in this title, in connection with,
or separately from, the like proceedings upon the petition
for the revocation of the letters, as the surrogate directs.
§ 2820. The provisions of this title apply to a trust
created by the will of a resident of the State, or relating to
real property, situated within the State, without regard to the
residence of the trustee, or the time of the execution of the
will,
§ 2821. The surrogate's court has the like power and sRcdf. «n.
authority to appoint a general guardian, of the person or * Dcm- 2W>of the property, or both, of an infant, which the chan
cellor had, on the thirty-first day of December, eighteen
hundred and forty-six. It has also power and authority to
appoint a general guardian, of the person or of the prop
erty, or both, of an infant whose father or mother is living,
and to appoint u general guardian, of the property only, of
an infant married woman. Such power and authority must
be exercised in like manner as they were exercised by tho
court of chancery, subject to the provisions of this act. Tho
same person may be appointed guardian of an infant in both
capacities; or the guardianship of the person and of the
property may be committed to different persons.
§ 2822. In either of the following cases, an infant, of
the age of fourteen years or upwards, may present, to tho
surrogate's court of the county in which he resides ; or, if
he is not a resident of the Stale, to the surrogate's court of
the county in which any of his property, real or personal,
is situated ; a written petition, duly verified, setting forth
the facts upon which the jurisdiction of the court depends,
and praying for a decree appointing a general guardian,
either of his person, or of his property, or both, as the case
requires; and, if necessary, that the persons, entitled by law
to be cited upon such an application, may be cited to show
cause, why such a decree should not be made :
1. Where such a general guardian has not been duly ap
pointed, either by a court of competent jurisdiction of the
State, or by the will or deed of his father or mother, ad
mitted to probate or authenticated, and recorded, as pre
scribed in section two thousand eight hundred and fiftyone of this act.
2. Where a general guardian so appointed has died,
become incompetent or disqualified ; or refuses to act; or
has been' removed ; or where his term of office has exp.red.
Where the petitioner is a non-resident married woman,
and the petition relates to personal property only, it mu.-t
affirmatively show that the property is not subject to the
control or disposition of her husband, by the law of the
petitioner's residence.
| 8823. A petition, presented as described in the last sec
tion, must also state whether or not the father and mother of
the petitioner are known to be living. If either of them is
known to be living, and the petition does not pray that the
father, or, if he is dead, that the mother, may be appointed
the general guardian, it must set forth the circumstances
which render the appointment of another person expedient;
and must pray that the father, or, if he is dead, that the
mother, of the petitioner may be cited to show cause, why
the decree should not be made. A citation, issued to the
father of the petitioner, must be served at least ten days
before it is returnable. Where the case is within subdi
vision second of the last section, the petition must pray
that the person formerly appointed general guardian may
be cited, unless it is shown that he is dead. The surrogate
must inquire, and ascertain as far as practicable, what rela
tives of the infant reside in his county ; and he may, in his
discretion, cite any relative or class of relatives of the in
fant, residing in that county or elsewhere, to show cause
why the prayer of the petition should not be granted.
§ 2824. The last section applies, where the petitioner
is a married woman ; except that her husband must also
be cited, and that the surrogate may, in his discretion,
make a decree, appointing a guardian of her property,
without citing her father or her mother.
§ 2825. Upon the return of the citation, the surrogate
must make such a decree in the premises, as justice re
quires. He may, in his discretion, hear allegations and
proofs from a person not a party. Where a citation is not
issued, the surrogate must, upon the presentation of the
petition, inquire into the circumstances. For the purpose
of such an inquiry, or of an inquiry into the amount of
security to be required of the guardian, he may issue a
subpoena, requiring any person to attend before him, to
testify respecting any matter involved therein. If he is
satisfied that the allegations of the petition are true in fact,
and that the interests of the infant will be promoted by the
appointment of a general guardian, either of his person or
of his property, he must make a decree accordingly, ex
cept that a guardian of the person of a married woman
shall not be appointed. In a proper case, he may appoint
a general guardian in one capacity, without a citation;
and issue a citation, to show cause against the appointment
of a general guardian, in the other capacity.
§ 2826. A guardian, appointed upon the application of
an infant of the age of fourteen years, or upwards, as pre
scribed in this article, must be nominated by the infant,
subject to the approval of the surrogate.
§ 2827. A relative of an infant under fourteen years of
age, or any other person in behalf of such an infant, may
present, to the surrogate's court of the county in which the
infant resides ; or, it he is not a resident of the State, to the surrogate's court of the county in which any of the infant's
property, real or personal, is situated ; a written petition,
duly verified, setting forth the facts, upon which the juris
diction of the court depends, and praying for a decree ap
pointing a guardian of the person, or of the property, or
both, of the infant, to serve until the infant attains the age
of fourteen years, and a successor to the guardian is ap
pointed. The cases in which such a guardian may be ap
pointed, the contents of the petition, and the proceedings
thereupon, are the same, as prescribed in the foregoing sec
tions of this article, with respect to the appointment of a
general guardian, upon the petition of an infant of the age
of fourteen years or upwards; except that the surrogate
must nominate, as well as appoint, the temporary guardian.
§ 2828. The term of office of a guardian, appointed as
prescribed in the last section, expires when the infant at
tains the age of fourteen years. But after the infant attains
that age, the person so appointed continues to retain all the
powers and authority, and is subject to all the duties and
liabilities, of a guardian of the person, or of the property,
or both, pursuant to his letters ; until his successor is ap
pointed and has qualified, or until his letters are revoked,
for some other cause, by the decree of the surrogate's court ;
and his sureties are responsible accordingly.
§ 2829. Where a general guardian of the property of
an infant is appointed, as prescribed in this article, the sur
rogate must inquire into the infant's circumstances, and
must ascertain, as nearly as practicable, the value of his
personal property, and of the rents and profits of his real
property.
§ 2830. [Am'd 1881 J Before letters of guardianship of
an infant's property are issued by the surrogate's court, the
person appointed must, besides taking an official oath, as
prescribed by law, execute to the infant, and file with the
surrogate his bond, with at least two sureties in a penalty,
fixed by the surrogate, not less than twice the value of the
personal property, and of the rents and profits of the real
property ; conditioned that the guardian will, in all things,
faithfully discharge the trust reposed in him, and obey all
lawful directions of the surrogate touching the trust ; and
that he will, in all respects, render a just and true account
of all money and other property received by him, and of
the application thereof, and of his guardianship, whenever
he is required so to do, by a court of competent jurisdic
tion ; but the surrogate may, in his discretion, limit the
amount of the bond to not less than twice the value of
the personal property and of the rents and profits of the real
property for the term of three years.
| 2831. Before letters of guardianship of an infant's
person are issued by the surrogate's court, the person ap
pointed must take the official oath, a* prescribed by law.
The surrogate may also require him to execute to the infant a bond, in a penalty fixed by the surrogate, and with or
without sureties, as to the surrogate s.ems proper ; co.iilitioned, that the guardian will in all things faithfully dis
charge the trust reposed in liim, and duly account for all
money or other property which may come to his hands, as
directed by the surrogate's court.
§ 8832. In either of the following case ■., the ward, or
any relative or other person in his behalf, or the -surety of
a guardian, may, at any time, preieut to the surrogate's
court a written petition, duly vended, setting forth the
facts, and praying foradecree. revoking letters of guardian
ship, either of the person, or of the property, or borh ; and
that the guardian complained of may be cited to sliow
cause, why such a decree should not be made :
*• Wnere t'ie guardian is disqualified by law, or is, for
any reason, incompetent to fulfill his trust.
2. Where, by reason of his having wasted or improperly
applied the money or other property in his charge, or in
vested money in securities unauthorized by law, or other
wise improvideutly managed or injured the real or personal
property of the ward, or by reason of other misconduct in
the execution of his office, or his dishonesty, drunkenness,
improvidence, or want of understanding, he is unfit for
the due execution of his office.
3. Where he has willfully refused, or, without goo4
cause, neglected, to obey any lawful direction of the sur
rogate, contained in a decree or an order ; or any provision
of law, relating to the discharge of his duty.
4. Where the grant of letters to him was obtained, by a
false suggestion of a material fact.
5. Where he has removed, or is about to remove, from
the State.
6. In the case of the guardian of the person, where the
infant's welfare will be promoted by the appointment of
another guardian.
§ 2833. Upon the presentation of a petition, as pre
scribed in the last section, the surrogate must inquire into
the matter ; and, for that purpose, he may issue a subpoena
to any person, requiring him • to attend and testify in the
premises. If the surrogate is satisfied that there is probable
cause to believe, that the allegations of the petition are
true, he must issue a citation to the guardian complained
of ; and, upon the return thereof, if the materia] allega
tions of the petition are e-tablished, he must make a decree,
revoking the guardian's letters accordingly ; except that,
where the case is within subdivision third or fourth of the
last section, he must dismiss the proceedings, under the like
circumstances and upon the like terms, as prescribed in
nections two thousand six hundred and eighty-six and two
thousand six hundred and eighty-seven of this act, whetre a
similar complaint is made against an executor or administrator.
§ 2834. Upon issuing a citation as prescribed in the last
section, the surrogate may, in his discretion, make an order
suspending the guardian, wholly or partly, from the ex
ercise of h.s powers and authority, during the pendency of
the special proceeding. A cenitied copy of an order so
naade muit accompany the citation, and be served there■with ; but, frcm the time when it is made, the order is
binding upon the guardian and upon all other person?,
without service; thereof, subject to the exceptions and limit
ations prescribed in sections two thousand six hundred and
three and two thousand six hundred and four of this act,
■with respect to a decree revoking letters.
§ 2035. A guardian, appointed as prescribed in this
title, may, at any time, present to the surrogate's court a
-written petition, duly verified, setting forth the facts upon
•which the application is founded, and praying that his ac
count may be judicially settled ; tliat a decree may there
upon be made, revoking his letters, and discharging him
accordingly ; and that the ward may be cited to show
cause, why such a decre should not be made. The sur
rogate may, in his discretion, entertain or decline to enter
tain the application.
§ 2836. If the surrogate entertains an application, made
as prescribed in the last section, he must issue a citation,
as prayed for in the petition ; and he may also require
notice of the application to be given to such other persons,
and in such a manner, as he deems proper. Upon the re
turn of the citation, a guardian ad litem for the ward must
be appointed ; and the surrogate may also, in his discre
tion, allow any person to appear and contest the applica
tion, in the interest of the ward. Upon the hearing, the
surrogate must first determine whether sufficient reasons
exist for granting the prayer of the petitior. If he deter
mines that they exist, and that the interests of the ward
will not be prejudiced by the resignation of the guardian,
the surrogate must make an order accordingly, and allow
ing the petitioner to account, for the purpose of being dis
charged.
Upon his fully accounting, and paying all
money which is found to be due from him to the ward, and
delivering all books, papers, and other property of the ward
in his hands, either into the surrogate's court, or in such a
manner as the surrogate directs, a decree may be made, re
voking the petitioner's letters, and discharging him accord
ingly.
§ 2837. Notwithstanding the discharge of a guardian,
as prescribed in the last section, his successor or the ward
may compel a judicial settlement of his account, as pre
scribed in article second of this title, in the same manner
and with like effect, as if the decree discharging him had
not been made. With respect to all matters connected with
his trust, his sureties continue to be liable, until his ac
count is judicially settled accordingly.
§2838. [Am'd 1889.] Where an infant, who resides
without the State and within the United States, is entitled
to property within the state, or to maintain an action in
any court thereof, a general guardian of his property, who
has been appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction,
within the State or Territory where the ward resides, and
has there given security in at least twice the value of the
personal property, and of the rents and profits of the real
property of the ward, may present, to the surrogate's court
having jurisdiction, a written petition duly verified, set
ting forth the facts and praying for ancillary letters of
guardianship accordingly. The petition must be accom
panied with exemplified copies of the record and other
papers, showing that he has been so appointed, and has
given the security required in this section, which must be
authenticated in the mode prescribed in article seven of
title three of this chapter, for the authentication of records
and papers upon an application for ancillary letters testa
mentary, or ancillary letters of administration.
2. Where an infant who resides without the State and
within a foreign country, is entitled to personal property
within the State, or to maintain an action, or special pro
ceeding in any court thereof respecting such personal
property, a general guardian of his property, who has
been appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction within
the foreign country where the ward resides, may apply to
the surrogate's court of the county where such personal
property or any part thereof is situated, for ancillary letters
of guardianship on the personal estate of such infant, and
the person so authorized must present to the surrogate's
court having jurisdiction a written petition, duly verified,
setting forth the facts and praying for ancillary letters of
guardianship on the personal estate of such infant. The
petition must be accompanied with the exemplified copies
of the records and other papers showing the appointment
of such foreign guardian, and proof that pursuant to the
laws of such foreign country wherein such foreign guar
dian was appointed, he is entitled to the possession of the
ward's personal estate. Such exemplified copies of the re
cords must be authenticated in the manner required pur
suant to subdivision one * one of this section.
§2839. Where the surrogate is satisfied, upon the
papers presented, as prescribed in the last section, that
the case is within that section, and that it will be for the
ward's interest, that ancillary letters of guardianship should
be issued to the petitioner, he may make a decree, admit
ting the exemplified copies of the foreign letters to be re
corded, and granting ancillary letters accordingly. Such a
decree may be made without a citation ; or the surrogate
may cite such persons as he thinks proper, to show cause,
why the prayer of the petition should not be granted. But
* So in original. before the ancillary letters are issued, the surrogate must
inquire, whether any debts are due from the ward's estate
to residents of the utate ; and if so, he must require pay
ment thereof.
§ 2840. [Atn'd 1889J Ancillary letters of guardianship
are issued as prescribed in the last section, without security
and without an oath of office. If issued in a case provided
for in subdivision one, * of section twenty-eight hundred
and thirty-eight, they authorize the person to whom they
are issued to demand and receive the personal property, and
the rents and profits of the real property of the ward, to
dispose of them in like manner as a guardian of the prop
erty appointed as prescribed in this article ; to remove
them from the State ; and to maintainor defend any action
or special proceeding in the ward's behalf. If issued in a
case provided for in subdivision two, of section twenty-eight
hundred and thirty-eight, such ancillary letters of guard
ianship authorize the person to whom they are issued, to de
mand and receive the personal estate of the ward, and to dis
pose of it in like manner as a guardian of property appointed
as prescribed in this article, and to maintain or defend
any action or special proceeding respecting such personal
estate in the ward's behalf. But in neither case do such
letters authorize such ancillary guardian to receive from a
resident, guardian, executor, or administrator, or from a
testamentary trustee, subject to the jurisdiction of a surro
gate's court, money or other property belonging to the
ward, in a case where letters have been issued to a guard
ian of the infant's property, from a surrogate's court of a
county within the State, upon an allegation that the infant
was a resident of that county, except by the special direc
tion, made upon good cause shown, of the surrogate's court
from which the principal letters were issued, or unless the
principal letters have been duly revoked.
§ £841. The last section applies to letters granted, be
fore this chapter takes effect, by a surrogate's court of the
State, to a guardian appointed by a court of another State,
or a territory of the United States, upon presentation of an
exemplified transcript of the record of his appointment.
§ 2842. A general guardian of an infant's property, ifpointed by a surrogate's court, must, in the month c:
January of each year, as long as any of the infant's pre
erty, or of the proceeds thereof, remains under his oc
troi, file in the surrogate's court the following papers :
1. An inventory, containing a full and true statenw
and description of each article or item of personal proper;:
of his ward, received by him, since his appointment, «
since the tiling of the last annual inventory, as the case re
quires ; the value of each article or item so received ; a lis
of the articles or items, remaining in his hands ; a statemen
of the manner in which he has disposed of each article a
item, not remaining in his hands ; and a full description o:
the amount and nature of each investment of money, m»dby him.
2. A full and true account, in form of debtor anc
creditor, of all his receipts and disbursements of money
during the preceding year ; in which he must charge him
self with any balance remaining in his hands, when the
last account was rendered, and must distinctly state the
amount of the balance remaining in his hands, at the con
clusion of the year, to be charged to him in the next year's
account.
§ 2843. "With the inventory and account, filed as pre
scribed in the last section, must be filed an affidavit, which
must be made by the guardian, unless, for good cause
shown in the affidavit, the surrogate permits the same to be
made by an agent or attorney, who is cognizant of the facts.
The affidavit must state, in substance, that the inventory
and account contain, to the best of the affiant's knowledge
and belief, a full and true statement of all the guardian's
receipts and disbursements, on account of the ward ; and
of all money and other personal property of the ward,
which have come to the hands of the guardian, or have
been received by any other person by his order or authority,
or for his use, since his appointment, or since the filing of
the last annual inventory and account, as the case requires;
and of the value of all such property ; together with a full
and true statement and account of the manner, in which
he has disposed of the same, and of all the property re
maining in his hands, at the time of filing the inventory
and account ; and a full and true description of the
amount, and nature of each investment made by him,
since his appointment, or since the filing of the last annual
inventory, and account, as the case requires ; and that he
does not know of any error or omission in the inventory
or account, to the prejudice of the ward. The surrogate
must annex a copy of this and the last section, to all letters
of guardianship of the property of an infant issued from
his court.
( 1208, Con§2844. [Am'd 1881.] In the month of February of each
Ml. Act
year and thereafter until completed, the surrogate must,
for the purposes specified in the next section, examine or
cause to be examined, under his direction, all inventories
and accounts of guardians filed since the first day of Feb
ruary of the preceding year. The examination may be
made by the clerk of the surrogate's court, or by a person
specially appointed by the surrogate to make it, who must,
before lie enters upon the examination, subscribe and take
before the surrogate, and file with the clerk of the surro
gate's court, an oath faithfully to execute his duties, and
to make a true report to the surrogate. Where the surrogate
seasonably certifies in writing to the board of supervisors,
or in the county of New York, to the board of aldermen,
that the examination required by this action cannot be
made by him, or by the clerk of the surrogate's court, or
by any clerk, employed in his office and paid by the county,
the board must provide for the compensation of a suitable
person to make the examination.
% 2845. If it appears to the surrogate, upon an exami
nation made as prescribed in the last section, that a.general
guardian of an infant's property, appointed by letters issued
from his court, has omitted to file his annual inventory or
account, or the affidavit relating thereto, as prescribed in
the last section but one ; or if the surrogate is of the opinion,
that the interest of the ward requires that the guardian
should render a more full or satisfactory inventory or ac
count ; the surrogate must make an order, requiring the
guardian to supply the deficiency, and also, in his discretion,
requiring the guardian personally to pay the expense of
serving the order upon him. Where the guardian fails to
comply with such an order, within three months after it is
made ; or where the surrogate has reason to believe that
sufficient cause exists for the guardian's removal, the surro
gate may, in his discretion, appoint a fit and proper person
special guardian of the ward, for the purpose of filing a
petition in his behalf, for the removal of the guardian,
and prosecuting the necessary proceedings for that pur
pose.
§ 2846. Upon the petition of the general guardian of an 4 Dem 14^
infant's person or property; or of the infant; or of any
relative or other person in his behalf ; the surrogate, upon
notice to such persons, if any, as he thinks proper to notify
may make an order, directing the application, by the
guardian of the infant's property, to the support and educa
tion of the infant, of such a sum as to the surrogate seems
proper, out of the income of the infant's property ; or,
where the income is inadequate for that purpose, out of the
principal.
§ 8847. [Am'd 1890.] A written petition, duly verified,
praying for the judicial settlement of the account of a
general guardian of an infant's property, and that he may
be cited to attend the settlement thereof, may be presented
to the surrogate's court, &
'of the following cases :
1. By the ward, after he has attained his majority.
2. By the executor or administrator of a ward, who has
died.
3. By the guardian's successor, including a guardian
appointed after the reversal of a decree, appointing the per
son so required to account.
4. By a surely in the official bond of a guardian whose
letters have been revoked ; or by the legal representative
of such surety. Citation under this subdivision must be
directed to both the guardian and the ward.
§ 2848. [Am'd 1881.] A petition, for the judicial settle
ment of the account of a general guaidkn of an infant's
person, may be presented, us prescribed in the last section,
or by the general guardian of the infant's property ; but
upon the presentation thereof, proof must be made, to tho
surrogate's satisfaction, that the guardian so required to
account has received money or property of the ward, for
which he has not account d ; or which he has not paid or
delivered to the general guardian of the infant's property ;
and a g.iardian of tiie estate only of a minor shall be, for
the purposes of this chapter, deemed a general guardian.
§ 2849. A guardian may present to the surrogate's
court a written pelition, duly verified, praying for a judicial
settlement of his account, and a discharge from his duties
and liabilities, in any case, where a petition for a judicial
settlement of his account may be presented by any other
person, as prescribed in either of the last two sections. The
petition must pray that the person, who might have so pre
sented a petition, may be cited to attend the settlement.
§ 2850. [Am'd 1882, 1887] Upon the presentation of a
petition, as prescribed in either of the last three sections,
the surrogate must issue a citation accordingly. Section
two thousand seven hundred and twenty-seven, sections two
thousand seven hundred and thirty-t ;ree to two thousand
seven hundred and thirty-seven, both inclusive, and
sections two thousand seven hundred and forty-one and two
thousand seven hundred and forty-four of this act, apply
to a guardian accounting as prescribed in this article, and
regulate the proceedings upon such an accounting. The
accounting party must annex to every account produced
and filed by him an affidavit, in the form prescribed in this
article for the affidavit to be annexed by him to his annual
inventory and account. A guardian designated in this
title is entitled to the same compensation as an executor or
administrator.
ARTICLE THIRD.
Guardians appointed by Will ok Deed.
\ 2851. Will or deed containing
appointment to be
proved, etc., and recorded.
§ 2851. A person shall not exercise, -within the State, any
power or authority, as guardian of the person or property
of an infant, by virtue of an appointment contained in the
■will of the infant's father or mother, being a resident of
the State, and dying after this chapter takes effect, unless
the 'will lias been duly admitted to probate, and recorded
in the proper surrogate's court, and letters of guardianship
have been issued to him thereupon ; or by virtue of an ap
pointment contained in a deed of the infant's father or
mother, being a resident of the State, executed after this
chapter takes effect, unless the deed has been acknowledged
or proved, and certified, so as to entitle it to be recorded,
and has been recorded in the office for recording deeds in
the county, in which the person making the appointment
resided, at the time of the execution thereof. Where
a deed containing such an appointment is not re
corded, within three months after the death of the grantor,
the person appointed is presumed to have renounced the
appointment ; and if a guardian is afterwards duly ap
pointed by a surrogate's court, the presumption is conclu
sive.
§ 2852. Where a will, containing the appointment of
a guardian, is admitted to probate, the person appointed
guardian must, within thirty days thereafter, qualify as
prescribed in section two thousand five hundred and ninetyfour of this act ; otherwise he is deemed to have renounced
the appointment. But the surrogate may exteud the time
so to qualify, up6n good cause shown, for not more than
three months. And any person interested in the estate may,
before letters of guardianship are issued, file an affidavit
setting forth with respect to the guardian, so appointed,
any fact which is mnde by law an objection to the issuing
of letters testamentary to an executor. Sections two thou
sand six hundred and thirty-six to two thousand six hundred
and thirty-eight of this act, both inclusive, apply to such an
affidavit and to the proceedings thereupon. A person ap
pointed guardian by will may, at any time before ho quali
fies, renounce the appointment by a written instrument,
under his hand, filed in the surrogate's office.
$ 2853. Where a guardian of an infant's person or prop
erty has been appointed by will or by deed, the infant, or
any relative or other person in his behalf, may present, to
the surrogate's court in which the will was admitted to pro
bate ; or to the surrogate's court of the county in which the
deed was recorded ; a written petition, duly verified, setting forth, either upon his knowledge, or upon his information
and belief, any fact, respecting the guardian, the existence
of which, if it was interposed as an objection to granting
letters testamentary to a person named as executor in a will,
would make it necessary for such a person to give a bond!
in order to entitle himself to letters ; and praying for a de
cree, requiring the guardian to give security for the per
formance of his trust ; and that he may be cited to show
cause why such a decree should not be made. Upon the
presentation of such a petition, and proof of the facts therein
alleged, to the satisfaction of the surrogate, he must issue a
citation accordingly. Upon the return of the citation, a
decree requiring the guardian to give security may be made,
in the discretion of the surrogate, in a case where a person
so named as executor; can entitle himself to letters testa
mentary only by giving a bond ; but not otherwise.
$ 2854. The security to be given, as prescribed In the laat two
sections, must be a bond to the same effect, and in the same form, as
Ifce bond of a general guird an, appointed by the surrogate's court.
Bach provision or' this cnapter, applicable to the bond of such a guardIan, and to the right.-, duties, and liabilities of the parties thereto, or
any of them, including the release of the sureties, and the giving of a
new bond ; applies to the bond so given, and the parties thereto.
§ 2855. Upon the petition of the ward, or of any relative or other
person in his behalf, the surrogate's court naving jurisdiction to
require security, as prescribed in t.h ■ last three sections, may, at any
time, in the discretion of the surrogate, make an order, requiring a
guardian, appointed by will or b/ deed, to render and file an inventory
and account, in the same form, and verified in the same manner as the
inventory and account required, to be filed annually by a guardian ap
pointed by a surrogate's courtr as prescribed in article second of this
title. The order may also require such an inventory and account to be
filed, in the month of January of each year thereafter. Sections two
thousand eight hundred and forty-two to two thousand eight hundred
and forty-five of this act, both inclusive, apply to such an inventory
and account, und to the filing thereof, as if the guardian had been
appointed by the surrogate's court.
§ 2856. [AnVd 1891, amendment to take effect September 1, 1891.]
The surrogate's court having jurisdiction to require security may com
pel a judicial settlement o'l the account of a guardian appointed by
will or by deed, in any ca e where it may compel a judicial settlement
of the account of a general guardian ; and the proceedings to procure
such a settlement are the same as if the guardian so appointed by will
or by deed had been a general guardian. A guardian appointed by will
or by deed may present to the surrogate's court a written petition, duly
verified, praying for a judicial settlement of his account, and a dis
charge from his duties and liabilities, in any case where a petition for
a judicial settlement of his account may be presented by any other
person as prescribed in this article. The ^petition must pray that ;be
person who might have h<> presented a petition may be cited to attend
the settlement. Upon the presentation of such petition the surrouate must
issue a citilion accordingly. Sections twenty-seven hundred and
thirty-three to twenly-seven hundred and thirty -seven, both inclusive,
and sections twenty-seven hundred and forty-one and twenty-*even
hundred and forty-four of this act apply to a guardian accounting as
prescribed in this article, and regulate the proceedings upon such ac
accounting. A guardian designated in this title is entitkd io the
same compensation a- a general guardian.
§ 2857. A decree, made upon a jndicial settlement of the account
of a guardian appointed by will cr by deed, as prescribed in this article,
or the judgment rendered upon appeal from Buch decree, ha** the same
force, as a judgment of the supreme court to the same effect.
§ 2858. Upon the petition of the ward, or of any rela
tive or other person in his behalf, the surrogate's court, hav
ing jurisdiction to require security from a guardian ap
pointed by will or by deed, may remove such a guardian,
in any case where a testamentary trustee may be removed,
as prescribed in title sixth of this chapter ; and the proceed
ings upon such a petition are the same, as prescribed in that
title for the removal of a testamentary trustee. Where a
citation is issued, upon a petition for the removal of such a
guardian, he may be suspended from the exercise of his
powers and authority, as if he had been appointed by the
surrogate's court. § 2859. A guardian appointed by will or by deed, may
be allowed to resign his trust, by the surrogate's court, hav
ing jurisdiction to require security from him. The pro
ceedings for that purpose, and the effect of a decree made
thereupon, are the same, as where a guardian appointed by
the surrogate's court presents a petition, praying that his
letters may be revoked, as prescribed in article first of this
title.
§ 2860. Where a sole guardian, appointed by will or by
deed, has been, by the decree of the surrogate's court, re
moved or allowed to resign, a successor may be appointed
by the same court, with the effect prescribed in section two
thousand six hundred and five of this act ; unless such an
appointment would contravene the express terms of the will
or deed.
§ 8861. A justice of the peace has such jurisdiction in
sol. Act
civil actions and special proceedings, as is specially con
ferred upon him by statute, and no other.
§ 2862. Except as otherwise prescribed in the next sec
tion, a justice of the peace has jurisdiction of the following
civil actions :
1. An action to recover damages upon or for breach of
a contract, express or implied, other than a promise to
marry, where the sum claimed does not exceed two hundred
dollars.
2. An action to recover damages for a personal injury, or
an injury to property, where the sum claimed does not ex
ceed two hundred dollars.
8. An action for a fine or penalty, not exceeding two
hundred dollars.
4. An action upon a bond conditioned for the payment
of money, where the sum claimed to be due does not ex
ceed two hundred dollars ; the judgment to be rendered for
the sum actually due. Where the sum secured by the bond
is to be paid in instalments, an action may be brought for
each instalment, as it becomes due.
5. An action upon a surety bond, taken, by any justice
of the peace.
6. An action upon a judgment rendered in a court of a
justice of the peace, or in a district court of the city of
New York, or in a justices' court of a city, being a court
not of record.
7. An action to recover one or more chattels, with or
without damages for the taking, withholding, or detention
thereof, where the value of the chattel, or of all the chattels,
as stated in the affidavit made on the part of the plaintifff,
does not exceed two hundred dollars.
§ 2863. [Am'd 1882.] But a justice of the peace cannot
take cognizance of a civil action, in either of the following
cases :
1. Where the people of the state are a party, except for
one or moro fines or penalties not exceeding two hundred
dollars.
2. Where the title to real property comes in question, as
prescribed in title third of this chapter.
3. Where the action is to recover damages for an assault,
battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander, criminal con
versation, seduction, or malicious prosecution, or where it
is brought under sections eighteen hundred and thirty-seven,
eighteen hundred and forty-three, eighteen hundred and
sixty-eight, nineteen hundred and two, or nineteen hundred
and sixty nine of this act.
4. Where, in a matter of account, the sum total of the
accounts of both parties, proved to the satisfaction of the
justice, exceeds four hundred dollars.
5. Where the action is brought against an executor, administrator, as such.
§ 2864. A justice of the peace has also jurisdiction to
render judgment, upon the confession of a defendant, as
prescribed in title sixth of this chapter, where the sum con
fessed does not exceed five hundred dollars.
§ 2865. [Am'd 1888.] An action, cognizable by a justice
of the peace, may be brought by or against a corporation ;
by or against a natural person in his own right; by or against
a town or county officer in his official character; or by an ex
ecutor, administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a re
ceiver in supplementary proceedings.
§ 2866. A justice of the peace, who is an innholder or
tavern keeper in fact, has no power or jurisdiction under
any provision of this chapter; but if a judgment has been
actually rendered by him, before he became so disquali
fied, he may give a transcript therof, or issue execution
thereupon, or satisfy the judgment, upon payment thereof.
§ 2867. A justice of the peace, who is a member of the
senate or assembly, is not obliged to take cognizance of a
civil action or special proceeding ; but he may take cogni
zance thereof, in his discretion.
§ 2868. A justice of the peace must hold, within his
town or city, a court for the trial of any action or special
proceeding, of which he has jurisdiction, brought before
him. He must hear, try, and determine the same, according
to law and equity ; and for that purpose, where special
provision is not otherwise made by law, the court is vested
with all the necessary powers possessed by the supreme
court
§ 2869. An action must be brought before a justice of
a town or city wherein one of the parties resides, or a jus
tice of an adjoining town or city in the same county, except
in one of the following case* :
1. Where the defendant has absconded from his resi
dence, it may be brought before a justice of the tows
or city in which the defendant, or a portion of his propertr
is at the time of the commencement of the action.
a6 Hun, 531.
2. Where the plaintifff is not a resident of the county, a
if there are two or more plaintifffs, where all are nou
residents thereof, it may be brought before a justice of the
town or city, in which the plaintifff, or cither of the plain
tiffs, or his attorney, is at the time of the commencement
of the action.
3. Where the defendant is a non-resident of the county,
it may be brought before a justice of the town or city, In
which he is at the time of the commencement of the action.
4. Where it is specially prescribed by law, that a partic
ular action may be brought before a justice of the town,
city, county, or district, where an offense was committed,
or where property is found. A defendant designated in sec
tion two thousand eight hundred and seventy-nine, section
two thousand eight hundred and eighty, or section two
thousand eight hundred and eighty-one of this act, is
deemed, for the purposes of this section, a n-sident of
the town or city where the person, to whom a copy of the
summons is delivered, resides.
35 Hud, 601
§ 2870. A justice of the peace has power to punish, for
a criminal contempt, a person guilty of either of the follow
ing acts :
1. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior towards
him, while engaged in the trial of an action, the rendering
of a judgment, or any other judicial proceeding ; where
such behavior directly tends to interrupt the proceedings,
or to impair the respect due to his authority.
2. Breach of the peace, noise, or other disturbance,
directly tending to interrupt his official proceedings.
8. Resistance willfully offered, in his presence, to the ex
ecution of his lawful mandate.
-- He has not power to punish, for a criminal contempt, in
any other case.
§ 2871. Punishment for a contempt, specified in the last
section, may be by fine not exceeding twenty-five dollars,
or by imprisonment in Ihe county jail not exceeding five
days, or both, in the discretion of the justice. Where a
person is committed to prison for the non-payment of such
a fine, he must be discharged at the expiration of ten days ;
but where he is also committed for a definite time, the ten
days must be computed from the expiration of the definite
time.
§ 2872. A person shall not be punished by a justice of
the peace, for a contempt, until an opportunity has been
given him to be heard in his defense. And, for that pur
pose, the justice must issue a warrant, directed, generally,
to any constable of the county, requiring the constable to
bring the offender before him.
§ 2873. A justice, who convicts a person of a contempt,
must, within ten days after the conviction, make up, sub
scribe, and file in the county clerk's office, a record thereof,
stating therein the particular circumstances of the offense,
and the punishment awarded by him upon the conviction.
§ 2874. A warrant of commitment for a contempt must 86 Hun, 601.
set forth the particular circumstances of the offense ; other
wise it is void.
§ 2875. An officer, who collects or receives a fine, im
posed by a justice of the peace for a contempt, must, with
in ten days thereafter, pay the money, for the benefit of the
poor, to the overseer or superintendent of the poor of the
town, city, or district, wherein the fine was imposed ; or,
where there is no such officer, to the officer or officers per
forming corresponding functions under another name; unless
the board of supervisors has directed the payment of fines
and penalties to the supervisor of the town, in a case where
it is authorized by law so to do.
§ 2876. An action is commenced before a justice of the g Civ. Pro',
peace, either by the voluntary appearance and joinder of 853.
issue by the parties, or by the service of a summons.
?. H.°^;6Pr'
§ 2877. The summons must be directed, generally, to
any constable of the county where the justice resides ; and
it must command him to summon the defendant to appear
before the justice, at a place specified therein, to answer
the complaint of the plaintifff in a civil action. Where the
summons is accompanied with an order to arrest the defend
ant, it must be made returnable immediately upon the
arrest of the defendant, within twelve days after the day
when it was issued ; in every other case, it must be return
able at a time therein specified, not less than six nor more
than twelve days after the day when it was issued.
§ 2878. Personal service of the summons must be made by delivering a copy thereof to the defendant ; except
where it is specially prescribed in this chapter that personal
service may be made by delivering a copy to another per
son. Where service of a summons is personal, it must be
made at least six days before the time of appearance speci
fied therein ; except where it is accompanied with an order
of arrest.
§ 2879. Where the defendant to be served is a corpora
tion, the summons may be personally served upon it, by
delivering a copy thereof to an officer or person, to whom
a copy of the summons in an action, brought against the
corporation in the supreme court, might be delivered, as
prescribed in sections four hundred and thirty-one and four
hundred and thirty-two of this act ; or, to any director or
trustee of the corporation, by whatever official title he is
called.
8 2880. Where the defendant to be served is a domestic
railroad corporation, and no officer thereof resides in the
county, to whom a copy of the summons may be delivered,
as prescribed in the last section, it maybe personally served,
by delivering a copy thereof to a local superintendent of
repairs, freight agent, agent to sell tickets, or station keeper
of the corporation, residing in the county ; unless, at least
thirty days before it was issued, the corporation had filed,
in the office of the cleVk of the county, a written instru
ment, designating a person residing in the county, upon
whom process to be issued by a justice of the peace against
it, may be served ; in which case, the summons may be
personally served by delivering a copy to the person so
designated.
§ 2881. Where the defendant to be served is a corpora
tion, association, partnership, or person, doing business in
the State as an express company, and no person resides in
the county to whom a copy of the summons may be de
livered, as prescribed in the foregoing sections of this
article, it may be personally served, by delivering a copy
thereof to any local or general agent, agent to receive
freight or parcels, route agent, or messenger of the defend
ant, residing in the county ; unless, at least thirty days
before it was issued, the defendant had filed, in the office
of the clerk of the county, a written instrument, designa
ting a person residing in the county, upon whom process to
be issued by a justice of the peace against the defendant,
may be served ; in which case, the summons may be per
sonally served by delivering a copy thereof to the person so
designated.
§ 2882. Where a person has been designated, as pre
scribed in either of the last two sections, and the designa
tion has been revoked, or it appears, by affidavit or the
return of the constable, to whom a summons has been duly
delivered for service, that the person designated is dead, or
has ceased to reside within the county ; or that he cannot, after due diligence, be found within the county, so as to
deliver a copy of the summons to him ; the original sum
mons, or the second or third summons, issued as prescribed
in the next section, may be served as if the designation
had not been made. Such a designation may be revoked
by a writing, executed and filed in like manner as required
for the purpose of making the designation.
8 2883. Where it appears, by the return of the con
stable, to whom a summons has been duly delivered for
service, that it was not served, for any cause, a second
summons may be issued by the same justice, in the same
action, within twenty days after the first summons was is
sued ; and, upon the like return thereof, a third summons
may be issued, within twenty days after the second was
issued. The second or the third summons, as the case may
be, relates back to the time when the first summons was
issued ; and, with respect to all proceedings before actual
service, the service thereof has the same effect, as if the
first summons had been seasonably served. For the pur
pose of issuing a new summons, as prescribed in this sec
tion, a previous summons may be returned upon the sixth,
or any subsequent day, before the return day thereof.
§ 2884. Where the plaintifff is ignorant of the name, or
part of the name of a defendant, that defendant may be
designated in the summons, and in any other process or
proceeding in the action, by a fictitious name, or by so
much of his name as is known, adding a description, iden
tifying the person intended. The person so designated
must thereupon be regarded as a defendant in the ac
tion, and as sufficiently described therein for all purposes.
When his name, or the remainder of his name, becomes
known, the justice, before whom the action is pending,
must amend the proceedings already taken, by the insertion
of the true or full name, in place of the fictitious name, or
part of a name ; and all subsequent proceedings must be
taken under the name so inserted.
§ 2885. A constable, who serves a summons, must, at
or before the time when the same is returnable, make and
deliver to the justice a written return thereof, under his
band, stating the time when, and the manner in which, he
served it. A constable who fails seasonably to serve a
summons, delivered to him for service, must make a written
return thereof under his hand, stating that it was not served,
and the reason why he failed to serve it.
§ 2886. A party to an action before a Justice of the j
peace, who is of full age, may appear a :u p.-ocecute k
defend the same, in person or by attorney, at hia election,
unless he has been judicially declared to be incompetent to
manage his affairs.
§ 2887. Before a summons is issued in behalf of. or an
issue is joine.l without summons by, an infant plaintifff, the
justice must appoint a competent and responsible person,
nominated by the plaintifff or his general guardian, to ap
pear as hij guardian for the purpose of the acion. The
written consent of the person, so appointed must be filed
with the justice, before his appointment. The guardian so
appointed ij responsible for the costs.
§ 2800. After the service and return of a summons
apa.nst an infant defendant, no other proceeding shall be
taken in the action, until a person has been appointed to
appear as his guardian for the purpose of the action.
Upon the nomination of the defendant, the justice must
appoint a proper person for that purpose. If the defendant
does not appear upon the return of the summons, or if he
neglects or refuses to nominate, the justice may, on the
application of the plaintifff, appoint any proper person as
his guardian. The written consent of the person, so ap
pointed, must be filed wiih the justice before his appoint
ment. The guardian so appointed is not responsible for any
costs.
§ 2880. Subject to the provisions of sections sixtythree and sixty-four of this act, any person, other than the
constable who served the summons or the venire, or the
law partner or clerk of the justice, may be the attorney for
a parly to an action before a justice of the peace.
§ 2090. The attorney's authority may be conferred
orally or in writing ; but the justice shall not suffer a per
son to appear as an attorney, unless his authority is ad
mitted by the adverse parly, or proved by the affidavit or
ora' testimony of himself, or another,
§ 2891. If a defendant fails to appear and answer, the
P'amtmC cannot recover without proving his case.

4tf.
§ 2892. Except in an action to recover a chattel, the
§ 1347, cvn- defendant may, upon the return of the summons and before
!°'- Act- „ answering, file with the justice a written offer to allow judgun'
ment to be taken against him for a sum therein specified, with
costs. If there are two or more defendants, and the action
can be severed, a like offer may be made by one or more of
the defendants, against whom a separate judgment may be
taken. If the Haiutiff thereupon, before taking any other
proceeding in '.le action, files with the 'justice a written
acceptance of the oiler, the justice must render judgment
accordingly. If an acceptance is not filed, the offer cannot
be given in evidence upon the trial ; but, if the plantiff
fails to obtain a more favorable judgment, he cannot recover
§ 2894. At the time when the summons is issued, in an
action specified in the next section, the justice who i sues
the summons must, upon the application of the plaintifff,
and upon compliance by him with the provisions of this
article, grant an order for the arrest of the defendant, in
either of the following cases :
1. Where the defendant to be arrested is not a resident of
the county.
2. Where the plaintifff is not a resident of the county ;
or, if there are two or more plaintifffs, where all are non
residents thereof.
3. Where it appears to the satisfaction of the justice, by
the affidavit of the plaintifff or another person, that the de
fendant is about to depart from the county, with intent not
to return thereto.
But such an order cannot be granted, where the defend
ant, against whom it is applied for, is a female.
§ 2895. An order of arrest shall not be granted, except
where the action is brought for one or more of the following
causes :
1. To recover a fine or penalty.
2. To recover damages for a personal injury, of which a
justice of the peace has jurisdiction ; an injury to property,
including the wrongful taking, detention, or conversion of
personal property ; misconduct or neglect in office, or in a
professional employment ; fraud ; or deceit. But this sub
division does not apply to a claim for damages in an action
to recover a chattel.
3. To recover for money received, or to recover a chat
tel ; where it appears that the money was received, or that
the chattel was embezzled or fraudulently misapplied, by a
public officer, or by an attorney, solicitor, or counsellor, or
by an officer or agent of a corporation or banking associa
tion, in the course of his employment ; or by a factor,
agent, broker, or other person in a fiduciary capacity.
§ 2896. Where it appears to the justice, by the affidavit
of the plaintifff or another person, that a sufficient cause of
action exists, against the defendant, and that Lhe case i<
■within the provisions of the last two sections, he mus
grant the order of arrest. But before granting it, he must
require a written undertaking to the defendant^ on the part
of the plaintifff, with one or more sureties, approved by the
justice, to the effect that, if the defendant recovers judg
ment, the plaintifff will pay all costs which may be awarded
to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by
reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking, which must be at least one hundred dollars.
§ 2897. The order must be subscribed by the justice
and indorsed upon or attached to the summons. It must
briefly recite the ground of arrest ; and it must direct the
constable, who serves the summons, to arrest the defend
ant ; to bring him forthwith before the justice ; and to
notify the plaintifff of the arrest, if he can do so with rea
sonable diligence.
§ 2898. The constable must, at the time of serving the
summons, execute the order of arrest, by arresting the de
fendant, and taking him forthwith before the justice. If
the justice is absent, or unable to try the action, the con
stable must forthwith take the defendant before another
justice of the same town or city ; who must take cogni
zance of the action, and proceed therein, as if the summons
had been issued, and the order of arrest had been granted,
by him.
§ 2899. The constable, executing the order of arrest,
must forthwith deliver to the justice the order, and a writ
ten return thereto, under his hand, stating the manner in
which he has executed it, and either that he has notified
the plaintifff, or that he could not do so, with reasonable
diligence. If he returns that he has notified the plaintifff,
the latter must appear within one hour after the defendant
is brought before the justice; otherwise judgment of non
suit must be rendered against him.
§ 290O. The constable executing the order, or another
constable, by direction of the justice, must keep the de
fendant in custody, until he is discharged by the order of
the justice, or judgment is rendered in his favor; but the
detention shall not, in any case, exceed twelve hours from
the time when the defendant is brought before the justice ;
unless, within that time, a venire is issued, or the trial of
the action is commenced, or unless either is delayed with
the express assent of the defendant.
30 Hun, 401 . §2901. A defendant, arrested as prescribed in this
article, may, without notice, upon the appearance of the
plaintifff before the justice, or at any time afterwards before
judgment, upon two days' notice given personally to the
plaintifff, or to his agent or attorney who appeared for him before the justice, apply to the justice for an order, dis
charging him from the arrest. The application may be
founded upon the papers upon which the order of arrest
was granted, and upon the complaint, if it has been made.
The justice must grant the application, where it appears
that the case is not within the provisions of sections two
thousand eight hundred and ninety-four and two thousand
eight hundred and ninety-five of this act. The justice
must also, upon the defendant's application, grant an order
discharging him from arrest, if the plaintifff fails to take
out, from the justice, an execution upon a judgment in his
favor, before the expiratipn of one hour after he is entitled
thereto.
§ 2802. The discharge of the defendant from arrest, 30 Hud, 481.
before judgment, as prescribed in the last section, or in sec
tion two thousand nine hundred and sixty-three of this act,
does not affect the jurisdiction of the justice over the action,
which must proceed, as if it had been commenced in the
ordinary manner. His discharge from arrest, after judg
ment, as prescribed in the last section, does not affect the
execution.
§ 2903. Where an order of arrest has been granted and
executed, in a case specified in subdivision third of section
two thousand eight hundred and ninety-five of this act, the
plaintifff cannot recover upon a default, and the defendant
is entitled to judgment upon a trial, unless the plaintifff
establishes all the matters of fact, which are required, by
that subdivision, to entitle him to an order of arrest.
§ 2904. This article does not abridge or otherwise affect
a privilege from arrest given by law, or a right of action
for the breach thereof. A privileged person is entitled to
be discharged from arrest, by the order of the justice before
whom he is brought, upon proof, by affidavit, of the facts
entitling him to a discharge ; or he may apply for and ob
tain an order for his discharge, as prescribed in section five
hundred and sixty-four of this act.
§2906. To entitle the plaintifff to such a warrant, he
a, Consol. must show, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the justice as
9^1) "l
followS :

j That a sufficient cause of action exists against the de
fendant, to recover damages for one or more of the causes
specified in the last section. If the action is upon a judg
ment, or to recover for breach of a contract, the affidavit
must show that the plaintifff is entitled to recover a sum
stated therein, over and above all counterclaims known to
him.
2. That the defendant is either a foreign corporation ; or
not a resident of the State ; or, if the defendant is a natural
person, and a resident of the State, that he has departed, or
is about to depart, from the county where he last resided,
with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of
a summons, or keeps himself concealed, with the like intent ;
or if the defendant is a natural person, or a domestic cor
poration, that he or it has removed, or is about to remove,
property from the county where the defendant being a
natural person last resided, or, being a corporation, last
kept its principal office, or from the county in which the
action is brought, with intent to defraud his or its creditors,
or has assigned, disposed of, or secreted, or is about to as
sign, dispose of, o. secrete, property, with the like intent;
or that the defendant, being a natural person of full age,
and a resident of the State, has been continuously without
the United States for the space of six months or more, im
mediately before the application, and either that he has not
made a designation of a person, upon whom to serve a sum
mons in his behalf, as prescribed in section four hundred
and thirty of this act, or that service upon the person so
designated cannot be made, with due diligence, in the
county where the person making the designation resides.
The affidavit must be filed with the justice, when the
warrant is granted.
§ i3i8,Con§2907. The warrant must be granted by the justice who
sol. Act.
issues the summons, at the time when the summons is is! Daly 552. suej . an(^ jt ,nust be indorsed thereupon, or annexed
thereto. It must be subscribed by the justice, and must
briefly recite the ground of the attachment. It must require
the constable, to whom the summons is delivered, to attach,
on or before a day specified therein, which must be at least
six days before the return day of the summons, and safely
to keep, as much of the defendant's goods and chattels, within nis county, as will satisfy the plaintifff's demand, with
the costs and expenses, and to make return of his proceed
ings thereon to the justice, at the time when the summons
is returnable. The amount of the plaintifff's demand must
be specified in the warrant, as stated in the affidavit.
§ 2908. Before granting the warrant, the justice must
require a written undertaking to the defendant, on the part
of the plaintifff, with one or more sureties, approved by the
justice, to the effect that, if the defendant recovers Judg
ment, or the warrant of attachment is vacated, the plaintifff
■will pay all costs which may be awarded to the defendant,
and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the
attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the under
taking, which must be at least two hundred dollars ; and
that if the plaintifff recovers judgment, he will pay to the
defendant all money received by him from property taken
by virtue of the warrant of attachment, or upon any bond
given therefore, over and above the amount of the judgment,
and interest thereupon.
§ 2909. The constable, to whom thewarrant of attachment is delivered, must execute it at least six days before
the return day of the summons, by levying upon and taking
into his custody so much of the goods and chattels of the
defendant, not exempt from levy and sale by virtue of an
execution, including money and bank-notes, which he finds
■within his county, as will satisfy the plaintifff's demand,
with the costs and expenses. He must safely keep the
property attached, to be disposed of as prescribed in this
article, and must immediately make an inventory thereof,
stating therein the estimated value of each item or article.
§ 2910. The constable must, immediately after making
the inventory, and at least six days before the return day
of the. summons, serve the summons, together with the
warrant of attachment and inventory, upon the defendant,
by delivering to him personally a copy of each, if he can,
with reasonable diligence, be found within the county ; or,
if he cannot be so found, byleavinga copy of each, certified
by the constable, at the last place of residence of the defend
ant in the county, with a person of suitable age and dis
cretion ; or, if such a person cannot be found there, by
posting it on the outer door, and also depositing another
copy in the nearest post-office, inclosed in a sealed post-paid
wrapper, directed to the defendant at his residence ; or, if
the defendant has no place of residence in the county, by
delivering it to the person in whose possession the property
attached is found.
§ 291 1. The defendant, or his attorney or agent in his
behalf, may, at any time before judgment is rendered in the
action, execute and deliver to the constable an undertaking,
to the plaintifff, in a sum specified therein, at least twice the
value of the property attached, as stated in the inventory ;
with one or more sureties, approved by the constable, or by the justice who issued the warrant ; and to the effect that
if judgment is rendered against the defendant, and a
execution is issued thereupon, within six months after uV
giving of the undertaking, the property attached shall be
produced to satisfy the execution. Thereupon the constats
must re-deliver the property to the defendant.
§ 2912. If a person, not a party to the action, claims
any property attached, which is not reclaimed by the
defendant, as prescribed in the last section, he may, at any
time after the seizure, and before execution is issued upon
a judgment rendered in the action, execute, and file with
the justice, a bond to the plaintifff, with one or more sureties,
approved by the constable or-by the justice ; in a penalty at
least twice the value of the property claimed ; "and con
ditioned that, in an action upon the bond, to be commenced
within three months thereafter, the claimant will establish
that he was the general owner of the property claimed, at
the time of the seizure ; or, if he fails so to do, that he will
pay to the plaintifff the value thereof, with interest. The
constable must thereupon deliver the property claimed to
the claimant.
§ 2913. A judgment for the plaintifff, in an action upon a
bond, given as prescribed in the last section, must award to
him the value of the property seized and delivered to the
claimant, with interest thereupon from the time of the
delivery. If the amount so recovered exceeds the amount,
which the plaintifff recovers, in the action in which the
warrant of attachment was issued, he is liable to the
defendant in that action for the excess.
§2914. If the warrant of attachment is vacated or
annulled, the defendant may maintain an action, upon the
bond specified in the last two sections, in his own name, in
the same manner and with the like effect, as the plaintifff
might have done, if the warrant had remained in full
force,
§ 2915. The constable executing the warrant of attachment must, at the time when and place where it is return
able, make a return thereto, under his band, stating all his
proceedings thereupon. He must deliver to the justice,
with the return, each bond or undertaking delivered to him,
pursuant to any of the foregoing provisions of this article,
and a certified copy of the inventory of the property
attached. The return must state the manner in which the
warrant and inventory were served, and, if they were
served otherwise than by delivering a copy thereof to the
defendant personally, the reason therefore, and the name of
the person to whom the copy was delivered, unless his name
is unknown to the constable ; in which case, the return
must describe him so as to identify him, as nearly as may
be.
§2916. A defendant, whose property has been attached, may, upon the return of tne summons, apply to the justice,
who issued the warrant of attachment, to vacate or modify
it, or to increase the plaintifff's security. Such an applica
tion may be founded upon the papers upon which the
warrant was granted ; or upon proof, by affidavit, on the
part of the defendant ; or upon both. If it is founded
upon proof on the part of the defendant, it may be opposed
by new proof, by affidavit, upon the part of the plaintifff,
tending to sustain any ground for the attachment, recited
in the warrant, but no other. The justice may, upon the
return of the summons, or at any other time to which the
action is adjourned, vacate the warrant of attachment upon
his own motion, if he deems the papers, upon which it was
granted, insufficient to authorize it.
§ 2917. Vacating the warrant of attachment does not
affect the jurisdiction of the justice to hear and determine
the action, where the defendant has appeared generally in
the action ; or where the summons was personally served
upon him ; or where judgment may be taken against him,
as being indebted jointly with another defendant, who has
been thus summoned or has thus appeared. In every other
case, the justice, who vacates a warrant of attachment
against the property of a defendant, must dismiss the action
as to him.
§ 89 18. Where the defendant has not appeared, and the
summons has not been personally served upon him, and
property of the defendant has been duly attached by virtue
of a warrant, which has not been vacated, the justice must
proceed to hear and determine the action ; but, in an action
subsequently brought, the judgment is only presumptive
evidence of indebtedness, and the defendant is not barred
from any counterclaim against the plaintifff. The execu
tion, issued upon a judgment so rendered, must require the
constable to satisfy it out of the property so attached, with
out containing a Aiirection to satisfy it out of any other
property,
§ 1382, Con§ 2919. An action to recover a chattel, with or without
sol. Act
damages for the wrongful taking, 'withholding, or deten
tion thereof, can be brought before a justice of the peace of
the county in which the chattel is found, in a case, and
subject to the qualifications, specified in sections one thou
sand six hundred and eighty-nine, one thousand six hundred
and ninety, one thousand six hundred and ninety-one, and
one thousand six hundred and ninety-two, and subdivision
seventh of section two thousand eight hundred and sixtytwo of this act.
51338, Con§ 2920. The plaintifff may, at the time when the summons
boI. Act.
js issued, but not afterwards, require the chattel to be re
plevied, as prescribed in this article. For that purpose, he
must deliver to the justice an affidavit and an undertaking,
similar, in all respects, to the affidavit and undertaking re
quired to be delivered to a sheriff, as prescribed in sections
one thousand six hundred and ninety-five, one thousand
six hundred and ninety-seven, one thousand six hundred
and ninety-nine, and one thousand seven hundred and
twelve of this act ; except that the sureties in the undertak
ing must be approved by the justice.
§ 1333 Con§2921. Upon receiving the affidavit and undertaking,
•
the justice must indorse upon or attach to the affidavit a
written requisition, subscribed by him, requiring the con
stable, to whom the summons is delivered, to replevy the
property described in the affidavit, on or before a day
specified in the requisition, which must be at least six days
before the return day of the summons. The affidavit and
requisition must be delivered to the constable, with the
summons.
8 J*84, Con§ 2922. The constable must execute the requisition, as
80 '
a sheriff is required to execute a requisition, in an action
brought to recover a chattel, as prescribed in sections oae
thousand seven hundred, one thousand seven hundred and
one, and one thousand seven hundred and" two of this act ;
except that he must serve the summons, affidavit, and req
uisition, within the time and in the manner prescribed, by
section two thousand nine hundred and ten of this act, for
the service of a summons, warrant of attachment, and in
ventory.
§ 1335, Con§ 2923. The constable must, on or before the return day
not. Act.
0f tne summons, make a return to the requisition, under
his hand, stating all his proceedings thereupon ; and file it,
with the affidavit and requisition, with the justice. The
return must state the manner in which the summons, affi
davit, and requisition were served ; and, if they were served
otherwise than by deliveiing the requisite copies to the de
fendant personally, the reason therefore, and the name of
the person to whom the copies were delivered, unless his
name is unknown to the constable ; in which case, the re
turn must describe him so as to identify him, as nearly as
may be.
§ 2924. At any time after the chattel has been replevied,
and at least two days before the return day of the summons, the defendant, unless, he requires a return of the
chattel, may serve upon the plaintifff, or upon the con
stable, a written notice that he excepts to the plaintifff's
sureties ; otherwise he ia deemed to have waived all objec
tions to them. If such a notice is served, the sureties must
justify upon the return of the summons ; or the plaintifff
must then give a new undertaking to the same effect as the
original undertaking, with other sureties, who must then
appear and justify before the justice.
§ 2925. At any time before the return day of the summons, the defendant may, if he does not except to the
plaintifff's sureties, serve upon the justice a notice that he
requires the return of the chattel replevied. With the no
tice he must deliver to the justice an affidavit and an under
taking, similar, in all respects, to those required to be given
by a defendant upon requiring a return of a chattel, as pre
scribed in sections one thousand seven hundred and four
and one thousand seven hundred and twelve of this act,
omitting the provision in the undertaking, "or if the
action abates in consequence of the defendant's death ".
The sureties in the undertaking must justify before the
justice upon the return of the summons. If the plaintifff
has stated separately in his affidavit the value of one or
more chattels or classes of chattels, as prescribed in sec
tion one thousand six hundred and ninety-seven of this
act, the defendant may require a delivery of part of the
property replevied, as prescribed in that section.
§ 2926. Except as otherwise expressly prescribed in
this article, the examination and qualifications of the
sureties, and the allowance of the undertaking, upon a
justification pursuant to either of the last two sections,
must be the same as upon a justification of bail, as pre
scribed in sections five hundred and seventy-nine, five
hundred and eighty, and five hundred and eighty-one of
this act, substituting the justice for the judge ; but after
such allowance, the undertaking must be filed with the
justice. • The constable is thereupon exonerated from lia
bility.
§ 2927. If the defendant neither excepts to the plaintifff's sureties, nor requires the return of the chattel, within
the time prescribed for that purpose ; or if he fails to pro
cure the allowance of his undertaking ; or if the plain
tiff, after the defendant has excepted to his sureties, duly
procures the allowance of his undertaking, the constable
must, except in the case specified in the next section but
one, immediately deliver the chattel to the plaintifff. If the
plaintifff, after the defendant has excepted to his sureties,
fails to procure the allowance of his undertaking ; or if the
defendant, after he has required the return of the chattel, procures the allowance of his undertaking, the constable
must immediately deliver the chattel to the defendant.
§ 8028. A constable who delivers to either party, without the consent of the other, a chattel replevied by him,
except as prescribed in the last section, or, by virtue of an
execution issued upon a judgment in the action, forfeitsto
the party aggrieved the sum of one hundred dollars ; and
is also liable to him for all damages which he sustains
thereby.
§ 2929. The provisions, regulating the proceedings,
where a person, not a party, claims property which has
been replevied, and the rights of such a person, and of the
sheriff, as prescribed in sections one thousand seven hun
dred and nine, one thousand seven hundred and ten, one
thousand seven hundred and eleven, and one thousand
seven hundred and twelve of this act, apply to a like case
in an action, brought as prescribed in this article, substi
tuting the constable for the sheriff ; except that service of
a notice and of a copy of the claimant's affidavit, upon the
plaintifff's attorney, as prescribed in section one thousand
seven hundred and nine, must be made, either upon the
plaintifff personally, or upon the attorney who appears for
him before the justice ; and that the sum specified in the
undertaking, given by the plaintifff to the constable, need
not exceed, in any case, three hundred dollars.
§ 2930. Where a chattel has been replevied, and the
defendant has not required the return thereof, pending the
action, as prescribed in the foregoing sections of this arti
cle, he may, in his answer, demand judgment for the return
thereof, either with or without damages for the taking,
withholding, or detention.
§2931. Section one thousand three hundred and seventy-three, section one thousand seven hundred and thirtyone, excluding subdivision first thereof, and sections one
thousand seven hundred and twenty-two, one thousand
seven hundred and twenty-six, one thousand seven hundred
and thirty, one thousand seven hundred and thirty-two.
one thousand seven hundred and thirty-three, one thousand
seven hundred and thirty-four, and one thousand seven
hundred and thirty-five of this act, substituting the con
stable for the sheriff, apply to the proceedings in an action
in a justice's court to recover a chattel, and to an action
against the sureties in an undertaking given (herein, except
as otherwise specially prescribed in this chapter.
§ 2932. Where the defendant does not appear, and the
summons has not been personally served upon him, and a
chattel, or part of a chattel, to recover which the action is
brought, has been replevied, and the proceedings thereupon
have been duly taken, as prescribed in this article ; the jus
tice must proceed to hear and determine the action, with
respect to that chattel or part of a chattel ; or, if the action
is brought to recover two or more chattels, with respect to
those which have been replevied ; in like manner and with
like effect, as if the summons had been personally served.
§ S933. Where the summons has been personally served § 18*6. Conupon the defendant, or where he appears, the justice must ?8Ic^ctpro
proceed to hear and determine the action, although the 172.
plaintifff has not required the chattel to be replevied, or the
constable has not been able to replevy it.
When issue to be joined.
Pleadings.
Complaint,
What causes of action
may be joined.
Answer.
Demurrer.
General rules of pleading.
Account, or instrument
for payment of money,
Court may require items
to be exhibited.
Immaterial variance to be
disregarded.
Amendment of pleadings.
Counterc'aims.
Id.; where executor or
trustee is a party.
Consequence of neglect to
plead counterclaim.
The last section qualified.
§ 2934. At the place, and within one hour after the
time, specified in the summons for the return thereof ; or,
where an order of arrest is granted and execute/!, within
twelve hours after the defendant is brought before the jus
tice ; or, where no summons is issued, at the time when the
parties voluntarily appear to join issue, the pleadings of the
parties must be made, and issue must be joined. Where
both parties appear upon the return of the summons, an
issue must be joined before an adjournment is had, except
when the defendant refuses or neglects to plead.
§ 2935. The pleadings in a justice's court are :
1. The plaintifff's complaint.
2. The defendant's answer.
3. The defendant's demurrer to the complaint, or to one
or more distinct causes of action, separately stated therein.
4. The plaintifff's demurrer to one or more counterclaims
stated in the answer.
§ 2936. The complaint must state, in a plain and direct
manner, the facts constituting the cause of action.
§ 2937. The plaintifff may unite, in the same complaint,
two or more causes of action, where they all arise out of
1. The same transaction, or transactions connected with
the same subject of action ; or
2. Contract, express or implied ; or
3. Personal injuries, and injuries to property, or either.
But it must appear, upon the face of the complaint, that
all the causes of action so united belong to one of the fore
going subdivisions of this section ; that they are consistent
with each other ; that they require the same judgment; and,
except as otherwise prescribed by law, that they affect all
the parties. Where a cause of action, for which a defend
ant might be arrested, is united with a cause of action, for
which he cannot be arrested, an execution against the per
son of the defendant cannot be issued upon the judgment.
§ 2938. The answer may contain a general denial of
each allegation of the complaint, or a specific denial of one
or more of the material allegations thereof. It may also
set forth, in a plain and direct manner, new matter, con
stituting one or more defenses or counterclaims.
§ 2939. In a case specified in subdivision third or
fourth of section two thousand nine hundred and thirtyfive of this act, a party may demur to the pleading of
the adverse party, or, if it is a complaint, to one or more
distinct and separate causes of action, where it is not suf
ficiently explicit to be understood ; or where it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or
counterclaim, as the case may be. If the court deems the
demurrer well founded, it must permit the pleading to he
amended ; and if the party fails so to amend, the defective
pleading, or part of a pleading, demurred to, must be dis
regarded. If the court deems the demurrer not well
founded, it must permit the party making it to plead over,
at his election.
§ 2940. A pleading, except as otherwise prescribed in
section two thousand nine hundred and fifty-one of this
act, may be oral or written. If it is oral, the substance
thereof must be entered by the justice in his docket-book :
if it is written, it must be filed by him, and a reference to
it made in his docket-book. A pleading is not required to
be in any particular form ; but it must be so expressed, as
to enable a person of common understanding to know what
is intended.
§ 2941. For the purpose of setting forth a cause of
action, defense, or counterclaim, founded upon an account,
or upon an instrument for the payment of money only, it
is sufficient for the party to deliver the instrument, or a
copy of the account to the court, and to state that there is
due to him thereupon, from the adverse party, a specified
sum, which he claims to recover or to set off.
§2942. The court may, upon the request of either
party, made when issue is joined, require the adverse party
to exhibit his account or demand, or to state the nature thereof, as far as it is in his power so to do, at that or an
other specified time ; and in case of his default, It may pre
clude him from giving evidence of such parts thereof, as
have not been so exhibited or stated.
§ 2943. A variance, between an allegation in a pleading
and the proof, must be disregarded as immaterial, unless
the court is satisfied that the adverse party has been misled
thereby, to his prejudice.
§ 2944. The court must, upon application, allow a
pleading to be amended, at any time before the trial, or
during the trial, or upon appeal, if substantial justice will
be promoted thereby. Where a party amends his pleading after joinder of issue, or pleads over upon the decision
of a demurrer, and it is made to appear to the satisfaction
of the court, by oath, that an adjournment is necessary
lo the adverse party, in consequence of the amendment or
pleading over, an adjournment must be granted. The
court may also, in ils discretion, require, as a condition of
allowing an amendment, the payment of costs to the ad
verse party.
§ £945. Sections five hundred and one and five hundred
and two of this act apply to a counterclaim in an action
brought in a justice's court ; except that such a counter
claim cannot be interposed, unless it is of such a nature,
that a justice's court has jurisdiction of a cause of action
founded thereon.
§ 2946. Sections five hundred and five and five hun
dred and six of this act apply to a counterclaim in an action
against a person sued in a representative capacity, or in
favor of an executor or administrator, except that the de
fendant cannot take judgment against the plaintifff upon a
counterclaim, for a sum exceeding two hundred dollars.
§ 294?. Where the defendant, in an action to recover
damages upon or for breach of a contract, neglects to inter
pose a counterclaim, consisting of a cause of action in his
favor to recover damages for a like cause, which might
have been allowed to him upon the trial of the action, he,
and every person deriving title thereto through or from
him, are forever thereafter precluded from maintaining an
action to recover the same, or any part thereof.
§ 2948. But the prohibition contained in the last sec
tion does not extend to either of the following cases :
1. Where the amount of the counterclaim is two hundred
dollars more than the judgment which the plaintifff re
covers.
2. Where the counterclaim consisls of a judgment, ren
dered before the commencement of the action, in which it
might have been interposed.
3. Where the counterclaim consists of a claim for un
liquidated damages.
4 Where the counterclaim consists of a claim, upon
which another action was pending, at the time when the
action was commenced.
5. Where judgment is taken against the defendant
without personal service of the summons upon him, or at
appearance by him.
tj 2949. Where a counterclaim is established, which
equals the plaintifff's demand, the judgment must be in
favor of the defendant. Where it is less than the plaintifff'
demand, the plaintifff must have judgment for the residue
only. Where it exceeds the plaintifff's demand, the de
fendant, must have judgment for the excess, or so maa
thereof as is due from the plaintifff, unless it is more thaa
the sum of two hundred dollars. If it is more than two
hundred dollars, or if no part of it is due from the plaintifff,
the justice must, at the election of the defendant, either :
1. Set off so much of the counterclaim as is sufficient to
satify the plaintifff's demand, and render judgment for the
defendant for his costs ; in which case, the defendant may
maintain an action for the residue ; or,
2. Render a judgment of discontinuance with costs ; in
which case, the defendant may thereafter maintain an ac
tion for the whole.
Where part of the excess is not due from the plaintifff,
the judgment does not prejudice the defendant's right to
recover, from another person, so much thereof, as the judg
ment does not cancel.
§ 2950. Where, upon the trial of an action, the sum
total of the accounts of both parties, proved to the satisfac
tion of the justice, exceeds four hundred dollars, judg
ment of discontinuance must be rendered against the plain
tiff, with costs.
§2951. The defendant may, either with or without
other matter of defense, set forth in his answer facts,
lowing tnat tne ti^ to rea' property will come in que<
tion. Such an answer must be in writing ; and it must b :
signed by the defendant, or his attorney or agent, and
delivered to the justice. The justice must, thereupon,
countersign the answer, and deliver it to the plaintifff.
§ 2952. In the case specified in the last section, the
defendant must also deliver to the justice, with the answer,
a w"tten undertaking, executed by one or more sureties,
approved by the justice ; to the effect that, if the plaintifff,
within twenty days thereafter, deposits with the justice a
summons and complaint in a new action, for the same
cause, to be brought in the proper court, as prescribed in
the next section, the defendant will, within twenty days
after the deposit, give a written admission of the service
thereof. Where the defendant was arrested in the action
before the justice, the undertaking must further provide,
that he will, at all times, render himself amenable to any
mandate, which may be issued to enforce a final judgment
in the action so to be brought. If the defendant fails to comply with the undertaking, the sureties are liable there
upon, to an amount not exceeding two hundred dollars.
§ 2953. The court in which a new action is to he
brought as prescribed in the last section, is the supreme
court, or the county court of the justice's county, at the
plaintifff's election ; except that, where the justice is a
justice of the peace of the city of Buffalo, it is the superior
court of Buffalo.
§ 2054. Upon the delivery of the undertaking to the
justice, the action before him is discontinued, and each
party must pay his own costs. The costs so paid by either
party must be allowed to him, if he recovers costs in the
new action, to be brought as prescribed in the last two
sections. If the plaintifff fails to deposit with the justice a
summons and complaint in the new action, before the
expiration of twenty days after the delivery of the under
taking, the defendant may maintain an action against the
plaintifff to recover his costs before the justice.
§ 2955. If the undertaking is not delivered to the
justice, he has jurisdiction of the action, and must proceed
therein ; and the defendant is precluded, in his defense,
from drawing the title in question.
§ 2956. If, however, it appears, upon the trial, from
the plaintifff's own showing, that the title to real property is
in question, and the title is disputed by the defendant, the
justice must dismiss the complaint, with costs, and render
judgment against the plaintifff accordingly.
§ 2957. In the new action, to be brought after an
action before a justice is discontinued, by the delivery of
an answer and an undertaking, as prescribed in the last six
sections of this act, the plaintifff must complain for the
same cause of action only, upon which he relied before the
justice ; and the defendant's answer must set up the same
defense only, which he made before the justice. If the
ac! ion is to recover a chattel, which was replevied in the
juhI ice's court, each undertaking, given in the justice's
court, continues to be valid in, and is applicable to, the
new action.
§ 2958. Where, in an action before a justice, the plaintifff has two or more causes of action, and the defense, that
the title to real property will come in question, is interposed
as to one or more, but not as to all of them ; the defendant
may deliver an answer and undertaking as prescribed in
sections two thousand nine hundred and fifty-one and two
thousand nine hundred and fifty-two of this act, with re
spect to the cause or causes of action only, in which title
will so come in question. Whereupon the justice must
discontinue the action as to those causes of action only; the
plaintifff may commence a new action therefore in the proper
court ; and the original action must proceed as to the other
causes.
§ 2959. At the time of the return of a summons, or of
the joinder of issue without process, but at no other time,
the justice may, in his discretion and upon his own motion,
adjourn the trial of the action not more than eight days,
unless the defendant has been arrested ; in which case, no
such adjournment shall be made.
« Hun, 870.
§ 2960. At the time of the return of a summons, or of
the joinder of issue without process, the justice must,
upon the application of the plaintifff, adjourn the trial of
the action, not more than eight days, to a time fixed by the
justice. But such an adjournment shall not be granted
unless the plaintifff or his attorney, if required by the de
fendant, makes oath that the plaintifff cannot, for want of
some material testimony or witness, specified by him, safely
proceed to trial.
§ 2961. At the time of the joinder of issue, the justice
must, upon the application of the defendant, adjourn the
trial of the action, upon his complying with the following
requirements :
1. The defendant or his attorney must, if required by the
plaintifff, or by the justice, make oath that he verily be
lieves that the defendant has a good defense to the action,
and that he cannot safely proceed to trial, for want of some
material testimony or witness, specified by him.
2. If required by the plaintifff, and the defendant has
not been arrested in the action, an undertaking must be
given to the plaintifff in behalf of the defendant, as pre
scribed in the next section. But such an undertaking need
not be given, where the action is to recover a chattel.
Such an adjournment must be for such a reasonable
time, fixed by the justice, as will enable the defendant to
procure the testimony or witness.
40 Hun, 207.
§ 2962. The undertaking described in the last section
must be executed by one or more sureties, approved by the justice ; and must be to the effect that, if the plaintifff re
covers judgment in the action ; and if, before the expira
tion of ten days after the plaintifff becomes entitled to an
execution upon the judgment, the defendant removes,
secretes, assigns, or in any way disposes of any part of his
property, liable to levy and sale by virtue of an execution,
except for the necessary support of himself and his family,
and if an execution upon the judgment is returned wholly
or partly unsatisfied ; the sureties will, upon demand, pay
to the plaintifff the sum due upon the judgment.
§ 2963. Where the defendant has b^en arrested, the
trial must be adjourned upon his application, upon the same
terms, and in the same manner, as where he has not been
arrested ; except that the undertaking prescribed in the last
section need not be given. A defendant, who procures such
an adjournment, must continue, during the time of adjourn
ment, in the custody of the constable : unless he gives an
undertaking to the plaintifff, with one or more sureties, ap
proved by the justice, to the effect that, if the plaintifff re
covers judgment in the action ; and if an execution is issued
thereupon against the person of the defendant, within ten
days after the plaintifff is entitled to the same ; and if a re
turn is made thereto, on or after the return day thereof,
that the defendant cannot be found ; the sureties will pay
to the plaintifff the amount due upon the judgment. If such
an undertaking is given, the defendant must be discharged
from custody.
§ 2964. If the trial of an action, in which the defend
ant has been arrested, is adjourned with the consent of both
parties, or upon the application of the plaintifff, the defend
ant must be discharged from custody.
§ 2965. The justice must, upon the application of the
defendant, grant a second or subsequent adjournment of
the trial of the action, upon the defendant's giving security,
if required, as prescribed in the foregoing provisions of this
article, where he applies for a first" adjournment ; and upon
his proving, by his own oath or otherwise, to the satisfaction
of the justice, that he cannot safely proceed to trial for
want of some material testimony or witness ; and that he
has used due diligence to obtain the testimony or witness.
But if the defendant has given an undertaking upon a for
mer adjournment, a new undertaking need not be given,
unless it is required by the justice, or by Ihe sureties in the
former undertaking.
§ 2966. Upon granting the defendant's application for 6 Civ.
an adjournment, where the trial has been once adjourned, 88.
or where the plaintifff is a nonresident, of the county, the
justice may, in his discretion, upon the plaintifff's applica
tion, direct that any witness on the part of the plaintifff,
who is in attendance, be then examined under oath before
the justice. Thereupon the testimony of the witness must
be reduced to writing, certified by the justice, and retained by him ; to be read upon the trial, with the same effect
and subject to the same objections, as if it was then given
oralij by the witness.
§ 2967. Where, upon a trial, a warrant of attachmet:
is issued to compel the attendance of a witness, who ha?
failed to appear in obedience to a subpoena, the justice may,
in his discretion, adjourn the trial, for such a time as he
deems necessary for the return of the warrant, not exceed
ing five days.
§ 2968. The trial of an action shall not be adjourned to
a time beyond ninety days from the joinder of issue, with
out the consent of both parties, except in one of the follow
ing cases :
1. Where a venire has been duly issued, but a jury has
not been procured, so that it is necessary to issue a new
venire, or to summon one or more talesmen, the trial may
be adjourned, not more than two days beyond the ninety
days, in order to enable the jury to be procured.
2. Where a jury has not been able to agree upon a ver
dict and is discharged, the trial may be adjourned a suffi
cient time beyond the ninety days, to enable a new jury to
be procured, as prescribed in title fifth of this chapter.
3. Where a warrant of attachment has been issued to com
pel the attendance of a witness, as prescribed in the last
section, or a warrant has been issued to commit a recusant
witness, as prescribed in title fifth of this chapter, an ad
journment made thereupon, as prescribed by law, is not
deemed a part of the ninety days.
§ 2969. A justice of the peace may issue a subpoena, to
compel a witness to attend, in the county where the justice
resides, or in an adjoining county, but not otherwise, for
the purpose of testifying upon the trial of an action, pend
ing before himself, or before another justice. The subpoena
may require the witness, except as otherwise expressly pre
scribed by law, to bring with him any book or paper, relat
ing to the merits of the action. But a justice shall not issue
a subpoena to compel the attendance of a witness before
another justice, unless the person applying therefore proves,
by his own oath, or the oath of another person, that an ac
tion is actually pending before the other justice.
§ 29*70. A subpoena may be served by a constable, or by
any other person. It must be served by reading it, or stating
its contents, to the witness, and by paying or tendering to
him his lawful fee for one day's attendance as a witness.
Where it is served by a constable, his return thereto, stating
the manner of service and the sum paid, is presumptive
evidence of the facts therein stated.
§ 2971. Where it is made to appear, to the satisfaction
of the justice, by affidavit or other proof, that a person, duly
subpoenaed to attend before him in an action, has refused
or neglected to attend as a witness in obedience to the sub
poena ; and no just cause for the neglect or refusal is shown
to exist ; and the party, in whose behalf the witness was
subpoenaed, or his attorney, makes oath that the testimony
of the witness is material ; the justice must issue a warrant
of attachment, directed generally to any constable of the
county, for the purpose of compelling the attendance of
the witness.
§ 2972. Such a warrant of attachment must be executed
in the same manner as an order of arrest. The fees of the
justice and constable for issuing and serving it, must be paid
by the person against whom it is issued, unless he shows a
reasonable excuse, to the satisfaction of the justice, for his
omission to attend ; in which case, the party procuring the
■warrant must pay them, and, if he recovers costs, the amount
thereof must be allowed to him as part of his costs.
§ 2973. Where the delinquent witness is within an ad
joining county, the constable, to whom the warrant of at
tachment is directed, may arrest the witness in that county,
and bring him before the justice. The constable, while he
is within the adjoining county for that purpose, has all the
powers of a constable of that county, with respect to the
warrant so issued to him.
§ 2974. A person, duly subpoenaed as a witness, who,
without a reasonable excuse, proved by his oath or the
oath of another person, fails to attend ; or, attending, re
fuses to testify ; must be fined, by the justice before whom
the action is pending, for each non attendance or refusal,
such a sum, not less than one dollar nor more than ten dol
lars, as the justice thinks it reasonable to impose upon him,
as a fine therefore.
§ 2975. The fine may be summarily imposed by the
justice, upon the application of the party in whose behalf
the witness was subpoenaed, at any time during the trial,
when the defaulting witness is pi esent, and has an oppor
tunity to be heard. If it is not imposed during the trial,
the justice, at any time within five days after judgment is
rendered, must, upon the application of the party, issue a
warrant, directed generally to any constable of the county,
commandincr him to arrest the defaulting witness, and to
bring him before the justice, at a time and place therein
§ 2988. Where the defendant makes default in appear
i 1388, Conso]. Act.
ing or pleading, upon the return of a summons, which has
been duly served as prescribed in this chapter, the justice
must hear the allegations and proofs of the plaintifff, and
render judgment according to law and equity, as the very
right of the case appears.
§ 2939. Where an issue of fact has been joined, if
neither party demands a trial by jury, the justice must try
the issue, hear the allegations and proofs of the parties, and
render judgment as prescribed in the last section.
§ 2990. [Am'd 1889.] At the time when an issue of fact
is joined either party may demand a trial by jury, and un
less so demanded at the joining of issue a jury trial is
waived. And (for the purpose of obtaining such a jury)
the town clerk of every town in this state shall, within ten
days after this act shall take effect, deliver to each of the
justices of the peace in his town a certified copy of the list
filed with him, in pursuance of section one thousand and
thirty-seven of this code, and he shall also deliver to each
of said justices a certified copy of any such list hereafter
filed with him, within ten days after the same t hall be so
filed. The town clerk is entitled to a fee of one dollar for
each copy of said list so delivered. Any town clerk who
shall neglect to deliver a copy of the list to each of the
justices of the town within the time above prescribed, shall
forfeit ten dollars for each failure, to be sued for and re
covered by the overseers of the poor of said town for the
use of the poor of said town.
§ 2991. [Am'd 1889.] When a trial by jury is duly de
manded, the justice must forthwith openly draw twelve
ballots from a box or other receptacle containing the
names of the persons who are returned as jurors of the
town to the courts of record of the county upon the last list thereof received by him from the town clerk as jurors
to attend and try said cause, on a day to which the cause
thall then be adjourned by him, not more than eight
days from the joining of issue, unless the parties
consent to a longer adjournment, which consent shall be
entered in the justice's minutes. The ballots shall be of
the same description as those prescribed in section two
thousand nine hundred and ninety-four of this act, but
they may be, or may previously have been prepared by a
justice. If a person whose name is thus drawn, in the
judgment of the justice, resides more than three miles from
the place of trial the justice may set aside such juror, and
he may excuse any juror who comes within the provisions
of section one thousand and thirty-three of this code, and
in either case draw another ballot, and continue to do so
until twelve are drawn. After the adjournment of the
court, at which a jury trial has been had, the justice must
deposit the ballot* containing the names of those who
attended and served, in another box kept by him. The
ballots containing the names of those who did not appear
and serve must be returned by the justice to the box from
which they were taken. If at the time of drawing jurors
for the court there is not a sufficient number of ballots re
maining in the original box, the justice upon drawing ail
the ballots therein, must draw the 'necessary number from
the second box containing the names of those jurors who
have before served, as in this section prescribed, and must
continue to draw from that box until a new list of jurors is
delivered to him by said town clerk.
| 299S. Where the action is between two towns or
cities, or between a town and a city, the venire must direct
the constable to notify twelve men of the county, who are
qualified and not exempt, as prescribed in the last section,
and who are not interested in the matter at issue, to form
a jury for the trial of the action.
§ 2993. [Am'd 1889.] The justice must insert the
names of the jurors so drawn, in a venire and deliver or
cause it to be delivered to a constable of the county disin
terested between the parties. The constable must at least
three days before the day therein stated, notify each of the
persons whose names have been therein inserted, by read
ing it or stating the substance thereof to the person so
served. But the service shall not be affected by the con
stable's failure after diligent search, to find any of the per
sons so named. The constable must make his return upon
the venire, certifying that he has so personally served it
upon e;ieh of the jurors whose names are therein inserted,
or if any were not served, stating the reason for such omis
sion. Any constable making a false return upon such
venire is guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person so served
and not attending at the time and place to which the cau
> original. ■was so adjourned, is guilty of a contempt of court, punish
able by a fine not exceeding ten dollars, which the justice
may impose forthwith by an entry in his minutes of the im
position of such fine, to be collected by execution issued by
the justice as upon a judgment, with costs of the levy, and
which fine shall be paid over to the use of the poor of the
county by the justice, but upon the presentation of a rea
sonable and sufficient excuse by or on behalf of the person
so fined, the justice may, at any time, remit such fine, or
any part thereof.
§ 2994. For the purpose of procuring a jury to try the
action, the justice must prepare, or cause to be prepared,
ballots, uni.orm, as nearly as may be, in appearance, by
writing the name of each person returned, who attends,
upon a separate piece of paper. The constable, in the
presence of the justice, must roll up or fold each ballot in
the same manner, as nearly as may be, so as to resemble
the others, and so that the name is not visible. The ballots
must be deposited in a box, or other convenient receptacle.
8 299S. [Am'd 1889.] The justice must then openly
draw out one after another six of the ballots. If a pe son
whose name is drawn is challenged and set aside, or is
excused, another ballot must be drawn, and so on succes
sively, until the required number of jurors is obtained.
The parties may elect to try the cause by a less number
than six jurors, at any time before a witness is sworn.
The persons so selected as herein provided, constitute the
jury to try the action.
§2996. [Am'd 1889] If a sufficient number of compe
tent jurors do not attend, the justice shall issue an attach
ment against all defaulting jurors, and shall place the same
in the hands of the officer who summoned the same, com
manding him forthwith to attach such jurors and to bring
them before him at a time specified not more than thirtysix hours thereafter, to which the cause must te rejourned.
The juror or jurors so attached shall, in addition to the
fine specified in section two thousand nine hundied and
ninety-three of this act, be required to pay the expense of
the attachment and service thereof ; which shall be the
officer's fees, together with all necessary expense incurred
by him in serving said attachment, to be audited and fixed,
to be enforced in the same manner, and when collected to
bo paid to the officer or the party who has paid the same.
Any person so attached and disobeying or resisting the
service of said attachment is guilty of a misdemeanor.
§2997. [Am'd 1889.] If the constable to whom the
venire is delivered does not return it as required thereby,
or if a full jury, drawn as prescribed in the foregoing sec
tions of this title, c;uinot be obtained , the justice must, in
case the venire is not, returned, proceed to draw another jury,
and in ease a full jury is not obtained, he must proceed to
then double the number of jurors required to complete the jury, in the manner prescribed in the foregoing sections,
which shall be summoned in like manner, as the first jury,
and he must continue to do so till a jury is obtained.
§ 2998. The justice must administer an oath or affir
mation to each juror, well and truly to try the matter
in difference between —
, plaintifff, and
, defendant, and, unless discharged
by the justice, a true verdict to give, according to the evi
dence.
§ 2999. After the jurors have been duly sworn, they
must sit together, and hear the allegations and proofs of
the parties, which must be made publicly, in their pres
ence.
§ 3000. A person offered as a witness, must, before
any testimony is given by him, be duly sworn or affirmed,
to the effect that the evidence which he shall give, relating
to the matter in difference between
,
plaintifff, and
, defendant, shall be
the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
§ 3001. Where a witness, attending before a justice in
an action, refuses to be sworn or affirmed in the form
prescribed by law ; or to answer a pertinent and proper
question ; or neglects or refuses to produce a book or paper
which he has been duly subpeenaed to produce, as pre
scribed in section two thousand nine hundred and sixtynine of this act, or duly required to produce by an order,
made as prescribed in section eight hundred and sixtyseven of this act ; and the party, at whose instance he at
tended, makes oath that the testimony of the witness, or
that the book or paper, is so far material, that without it
he cannot safely proceed with the trial of the action, the
justice may, by warrant, commit the witness to the jail of
the county.
§ 3002. The warrant must specify the cause for which
it is issued. If it is issued for refusing to answer a ques
tion, the question must be specified therein ; if for neglect
ing or refusing to produce a book or paper, the same must
be described with convenient certainty. The recusant wit
ness must be closely confined, by virtue of the warrant,
until he submits to be sworn or affirmed, or to answer, or
to produce the book or paper required, as the case may be ;
or is otherwise discharged according to law.
§ 3003. The justice must thereupon, from time to time,
at the request of the party in whose behalf the witness at
tended, adjourn the trial, until the witness testifies, or pro
duces the book or paper required, or dies, or becomes a
lunatic, or is discharged according to law.
§ 3004. An ex parte affidavit shall not be received in
evidence upon a trial, without the consent of both parties,
except in a case where it is specially allowed by law.
§ 3005. An objection to the competency of a witness
must be tried and determined by the justice. Where the
ground of the objection depends upon a matter of fact, .
evidence may be given thereupon, as upon any other ques
tion of fact ; except that, if the witness is examined there
upon b3r the party objecting, no other testimony shall be
received from either party as to his competency.
§ 3006. After hearing the allegations and proofs, the
jury must be kept together in a private and convenient
place, under the charge of a constable, until they all agree
upon their verdict ; and, for that purpose, the justice shall
administer to the constable the following oath: " You
swear in the presence of Almighty God. that you -will, to
the utmost of your ability, keep the persons sworn as jurors
upon this trial together, in a private and convenient place,
without any meat or drink, except such as shall be ordered
by me ; that you will not suffer any communication to be
made to them, orally or otherwise ; that you will not com
municate with them yourself, orally or otherwise, unless by
my order, or to ask them whether they have agreed upon
their verdict, until they are discharged ; and that you will
not before they render their verdict, communicate to any
person the state of their deliberations, or the verdict they
have agreed upon ".
§ 3007. When the jurors have agreed upon their ver
dict, they must publicly deliver it to the justice, who must
enter it in his docket-book. It is not necessary to call the
plaintifff before receiving the verdict ; and the plaintifff can
not submit to a nonsuit or withdraw the action, after the
cause has been committed to the jury.
§ 3008. Where the justice is satisfied that the jurors
cannot agree upon a verdict, after having been out a reason
able time, he may discharge them, and issue a new venire,
returnable within forty-eight hours ; unless the parties con
sent, and their consent is entered in the justice's docketbook, that the justice may render judgment upon the evi
dence already before him ; which he may do, in that case.
8 3009. A person dulynotified toattend as a juror, who
fails to attend, or, attending, refuses to serve, without a
reasonable excuse, proved by his oath, or the oath of an
other person, is liable to the same fine, to be imposed and
collected, with costs, in like manner, and applied to the
same use, as is prescribed in article second of title fourth of
this chapter, with respect to a person subpoenaed as a
witness, and not attending, or attending and refusing to
testify.
§3010. A justice of tlie peace may enter a judgment
upon the confession of the defendant, in any case, where
the amount confessed does not exceed the sum of five hun
dred dollars, with such a stay of execution, if any, as is
agreed upon by the parties to the judgment.
§3011. A judgment upon confession shall not be ren
dered, unless the following requisites are complied with :
1. The defendant must personally appear before the
justice.
2. The confession must be in writing, signed by the de
fendant, and filed with the justice.
3. If the judgment is confessed for a sum exceeding fifty
dollars, the confession must be accompanied with the affi
davit of the defendant and of the plaintifff, stating that the
defendant is honestly and justly indebted to the plaintifff in
the sum specified therein, over and above all just demands
which the defendant has against the plaintifff ; and that the
confession is not made or taken with intent to defraud any
creditor.
§ 3012. A judgment confessed, otherwise than as pre
scribed in the last section, is void, as against every person,
except a purchaser in good faith of property, real or per
sonal, thereunder, and the defendant making the confession.
§ 3013. Judgment of nonsuit, with costs, must be ren
dered against a plaintifff prosecuting an action before a
justice of the peace, in either of the following cases :
1. If he discontinues or withdraws the action.
2. If he fails to appear within one hour after the sum
mons is returnable, or within one hour after the time to
which the trial has been adjourned.
3* If he is nonsuited upon the trial.
§ 3014. Where a verdict, or the decision of the justice
upon a trial without a jury, is rendered in favor of either
party, the justice must render judgment against the adverse
party in conformity thereto, with costs, except as is other
wise specially prescribed by law.
§ 3015. Where the plaintifff is nonsuited, or discontinues
or withdraws the action ; or where judgment is con
fessed, or a verdict is rendered ; or where, at the close of
the trial, the defendant is in custody ; the justice must
forthwith render judgment, and enter it in his docket-book.
In every other case, he must render judgment and enter it
in his docket-book, within four days after the cause has been
finally submitted to him.
§ 301G. Where a verdict, or the decision of ike justice
upon a trial without a jury, is rendered in favor of either
party for a sum of money, the prevailing party may remit
any portion thereof, and take judgment for the residue.
§ 3017. A justice of the peace who renders a judgment,
except in an action to recover a chattel, must, upon the
application of the party in whose favor the judgment was
rendered, and payment of the fee therefore, deliver to him
a transcript of the judgment. The county clerk of the
county, in which the judgment was rendered, must, upon
the presentation of the transcript, and payment of the fees
therefore, indorse thereupon the date of its receipt, file it in
his office, and docket the judgment, as of the time of the
receipt of the transcript, in the book kept by him for that
purpose, as prescribed in article third of title first of chap
ter eleventh of this act. Thenceforth the judgment is
deemed a judgment of the county court of that county,
and must be enforced accordingly ; except that an execu
tion can be issued thereupon only by the county clerk, as
prescribed in section three thousand and forty-three of this
act, and that the judgment is not a lien upon, and cannot
be enforced against, real property, unless it is for twentyfive dollars or more, exclusive of costs.
§3018. If the action, in which the judgment is rendered, is one of the actions specified in subdivision first or
second, of section two thousand eight hundred and ninetyfive of this act, or if an order of arrest was granted, and
was executed, in a case specified in subdivision third of that
section, and, in either case, if the defendant is a male per
son, the justice must insert, in each transcript given bv
him, as prescribed in the last section, the words, "defend
ant liable to execution against his person"; and a like note
must also be made in the docket of the judgment, made by
the county clerk.
§ 3019. A justice of the peace, who renders judgment
for a chattel, which has been delivered to the unsuccessful
party, or for the value thereof, in cace a return thereof can
not be had, must, where the value exceeds twenty-five
dollars, upon the application of the party in whose favor
the judgment was rendered, and payment of the fee there
for, deliver to him a transcript of the judgment, stating the
particulars thereof. The county cle|^ of the county, in
which the judgment was rendered, must, upon the presenta
tion of the transcript, and payment of the fees therefore,
indorse thereupon the date of its receipt, file it in his office,
and docket the judgment, as of the time of the receipt of
the transcript, in the book kept by him for that purpose, as
prescribed in article third of title first of chapter eleventh
of this act, and must also enter in the docket the particu
lars of the judgment, as stated in the transcript of the jus
tice. Thenceforth the judgment is deemed a judgment of
the county court of that county, and must be enforce' accordingly ; except that an execution can be issued there
upon only by the county clerk, as prescribed in section
three thousand and forty-three of this act.
§ 3080. Where an action is brought against two or §1383,1395,
more persons, jointly indebted upon contract, and the sum- Cohpo1.au.
mons is served upon one or more, but not upon all of them,
if the plaintifff recovers judgment, it must be entered
against all, in the mode prescribed in section tfne thousand
nine hundred and thirty-two of this act. Sections one
thousand nine hundred and thirty-three, one thousand nine
hundred and thirty-four, and one thousand nine hundred
and thirty five of this act apply to such a judgment, and to
each execution issued thereupon ; except that, where the
justice or the county clerk issues the execution, he must
make the indorsement prescribed in section one thousand
nine hundred and thirty-four of this act.
§ 3021. The justice who gives a transcript of a judg- § isflfi. Cmiment, taken as prescribed in the last section, must distinctly Bo1- Actdesignate, in the transcript, each defendant who was not
summoned. Thereupon the clerk, who dockets the judg
ment, must make in the docket, under or opposite the name
of each defendant not summoned, an entry, as prescribed
in section one thousand nine hundred and thirty-six of this
act ; and the provisions of that section apply to the judg
ment so docketed. An action, upon a judgment so dock
eted, can be maintained in a justice's court against the de
fendants summoned, only in a like case, and with like
effect, as if they were the only defendants in the original
action. An action may be maintained against the defend
ants not summoned, as prescribed in section one thousand
nine hundred and thirty-seven of this act, in any court
having jurisdiction thereof ; and the plaintifff is entitled to
costs, upon recovering final judgment therein, where the
sum remaining unpaid is twenty-five dollars or more.
§ 3022. The clerk, with whom a transcript given by a § I3i>", Conjustice is filed, as prescribed in either of the foregoing sec- 8o1, Aet
tions of this title, must furnish to any person applying
therefore, and paying the fees allowed by law, one or more
transcripts of the docket of the judgment, attested by his
signature. A county clerk, to whom such a transcript is
presented, must, upqp payment of the fees therefore, immedi
ately file it, and docket the judgment in the appropriate
docket-book kept in his office, in like manner as the judg
ment was docketed by the first county clerk. The judg
ment, when docketed as prescribed in this section, has the
like effect, with respect to the enforcement llic
any
proceedings thereunder, or by virtue therec*
t
where it was so docketed, as if it was ivn<'
of the peace of that county, and docket e
*•, except that where an applic
tuition is necessary, it mucounty court of the county where the judgment was
rendered.
§ 3023. A justice of the peace, whose term of office
lias expired, may make a transcript of a judgment rendered
by him, as prescribed in either of the foregoing sections of
this title.
§ 3024. At any time within five years after entry of a
onBol'.Act judgment, the justice of the peace, who rendered it, being
in office, may issue an execution thereupon, unless it has
been docketed in the county clerk's office.
§ 3025. An execution, issued by a justice, must be
directed generally to any constable of the same county. It
must intelligibly describe the judgment, stating the names
of the parties in whose favor, and against whom, the time
when, and the name of the justice by whom, the judgment
was rendered ; and it must be made returnable to the jus
tice, within sixty days after its date.
§ 3026. An execution, issued upon a judgment for a
sum of money, must specify, in the body thereof, the sum
recovered, and the sum actually due u%on the judgment at
the date of the execution ; and, except in a case where
special provision is otherwise made by law, it must, sub
stantially, require the constable to satisfy the judgment,
together with his fees, out of the personal property of the
judgment debtor within the county, not exempt from levy
and sale by virtue of an execution ; and to bring the money
before the justice, by the return day of the execution, to
be rendered, by the justice, to the party who recovered the
judgment. If the judgment was recovered against a male
person, in either of the actions specified in subdivision first or second of section two thousand eight hundred and
ninety-five of this act ; or if an order of aires', was granted,
and was executed, in a case specified in subdivision third of
that section, the execution must also command the con
stable, if sufficient personal property cannot be found to
satisy the judgment, to arrest the judgment debtor, and to
convey him to the jail of the county, there to remain until
he pays the judgment, or is discharged according to law.
If the judgment was rendered in an action to recover a
penalty or forfeiture given by a statute of the State, the
justice must indorse upon the execution a reference to the
statute, as prescribed in section one thousand eight hundred
and ninety-seven of this act, with respect to a copy of the
summons.
§ 3027. After the return, wholly or partly unsatisfied,
of an execution, issued by a justice of the peace, he may,
from time to time, within five years after the judgment was
rendered, issue a new execution, or renew the former exe
cution. An execution is renewed by a written indorsement
thereupon to that effect, signed by the justice, and dated
upon the day when it is made. If part of the execution
has been satisfied, the indorsement must state the sum re
maining due. Each indorsement renews the execution for
sixty days from the date thereof. A justice whose term
of office has expired may thus issue or renew an exe- "
cution.
§ 3028. The same personal property is exempt from
levy and sale, by virtue of an execution issued by a justice
of the peace, which is exempt from levy and sale, by
virtue of an execution issued out of the supreme court, and
in the like cases, and under the same circumstances, as
prescribed in sections one thousand three hundred and
eighty nine, one thousand three hundred and ninety, one
thousand three hundred and ninety-one, one thousand three
hundred and ninety-two, one thousand three hundred and
ninety-three, and one thousand th»ee hundred and ninetyfour of this act, and the other special provisions of law,
relating to such an exemption.
§ 3020. A constable, who takes personal property into 47 nnn,4a
his custody, by virtue of an execution, must indorse upon
the execution the time of levying upon it. He must im
mediately post conspicuously, in at least three public places
of the city or town, in whieli the property was taken,
written or printed notices, signed by him, describing the
property, and specifying the place, within the same, city or
town, where, and the lime, not less than six days after the
posting, when, it will be exposed for sale.
§ 3030. The provisions of sections one thousand three
hundred and eighty-four, one thousand three hundred and
eighty -five, one thousand three hundred and eighty-six, one
thousand three hundred and eighty-seven, one thousand
four hundred and live, one thousand four hundred and nine, one thousand four hundred and ten, one thousand
four hundred and eleven, one thousand four hundred and
twelve, and one thousand four hundred and twenty-eight
of this act, substituting the constable for the sheriff, apply
to and govern the levy upon and sale of personal property,
by virtue of an execution issued by a justice of the peace;
except where a different rule is prescribed in this act.
§ 3031. The constable must return the execution to the
justice, and pay to him the amount of the judgment, with
interest, or so much thereof as he has collected ; returning
the surplus, if any, to the person from whose property it
was collected.
§ 3032. For want of sufficient personal property,
whereon to levy, the constable must, if the execution re
quires it, arrest the judgment debtor, and convey him to
the jail of the county. The keeper of the jail must there
upon keep the judgment debtor in custody, in all respects
as if the execution was issued out of the supreme court,
until the judgment and the fees of the constable are paid ;
or until the judgment debtor is thence discharged, in due
course of law ; except that if the execution has an indorse
ment, showing that the judgment was rendered in an action
for a penalty or forfeiture, given by a statute of the State,
the sheriff shall not admit the judgment debtor to the liber
ties of the jail.
§ 3033. [Am'd 1883.] If a person committed to jail by
virtue of an execution issued by a justice of the peace, or
out of the municipal court of Buffalo, or by virtue of an
execution issued by a county clerk on a transcript of a judg
ment recovered before a justice of the peace, or in the said
municipal court of Buffalo, has a family within the state
for which he provides, he must be discharged, after re
maining in custody, either with or without being admitted
to the jail liberties, thirty days ; otherwise he must be dis
charged after so remaining sixty days.
§ 3034. In order to procure a discharge, as prescribed
in the last section, the prisoner must make, and deliver to
the sheriff or jailor, an affidavit, stating the facts which en
title him thereto, according to the provisions of that section.
Upon receiving such an affidavit, the sheriff or jailor must
forthwith discharge the prisoner from his custody. He
must thereupon deliver the affidavit to the clerk of the
county, who must file it in his office, without fee.
§ 3035. A sheriff or jailor, who refuses to discharge
the pri'oner, upon receiving such an affidavit, forfeits
twenty-live dollars for each da}7, during which he detains
the prisoner ; to lie recovered by the latter, in addition to
any damages, which he sustains by reason of the false im
prisonment.
§ 3036. The receipt of such an affidavit is a defense, to
an action brought against the sheriff or jailor, by reason of
the prisoner's discharge.
§ 3037. Notwithstanding the discharge of a judgment
debtor, as prescribed in the last four sections, the judgment
remains valid as against his property ; and a new execu
tion may be issued accordingly, as if he had not been im
prisoned.
§ 3038. In an action for a chattel, the possession of
which has not been delivered to the prevailing party, an
execution, for the delivery of the possession thereof to him,
as well as for any damages recovered by him, may be issued
by the justice ; unless the judgment has been docketed in
the counly clerk's office, as prescribed in title sixth of this
chapter. It must be to the same effect, and executed in
the same /nanner, as a like execution issued upon a judg
ment rendered in the supreme court ; except that it must be
directed generally to any constable of the county ; and that
the direction to satisfy a sum of money, out of the property
of the judgment debtor, must be in the form prescribed
in this title for a like direction, where an execution is issued
by a justice of the peace, upon a judgment for a sum of
money.
§ 3039. If a constable fails to return an execution with
in five days after the return day thereof, the parly, in
whose favor it was issued, may recover, in an action against
the constable, the amount of the execution, if it was issued
upon a judgment for a sum of money ; or if it was for the
delivery of the possession of a chattel, the value of the
chattel, as specified in the judgment, together with the
damages and costs aw arded thereby ; and, in either case,
with interest from the time when the judgment was ren
dered.
§ 3040. A constable shall not levy upon or sell prop
erty, or arrest a defendant or take possession of a chattel,
by virtue of an execution, after the time limited therein for
its return, unless tl»e execution has been renewed ; nor shall
he do any act under a renewed execution, after the expira
tion of the time for which it has been renewed.
§ 3041. Where money, collected by a constable upon an
execution, is not paid over by him according to law, any
person entitled thereto may maintain an action in his own
name, upon the instrument of security given by the con
stable and his sureties ; and may recover therein the sum so
collected, with inteiest from the time when it was col
lected.
§ 3042. A constable, to whom an execution is delivered,
whose term of office expires on or before the return day
thereof, must proceed thereupon in the same manner, as if
his term of office had not expired ; and he and his sureties
are liable for any neglect of duty, with respect to the exe
cution ; or for money collected thereunder, or for damages
sustained by reason of any act done by the constable, touch
ing the execution, in the same manner, and to the same
extent, as if his term of office had not expired.
§ 3043. Where a judgment, rendered by a justice of the
peace, has been docketed with a county clerk, upon the
filing either of a transcript from the justice's docket, or of a
transcript from the clerk's docket of another county, the
execution, to be issued thereupon by the county clerk, must
be. in the same form, and executed in the same manner, as an
execution issued upon a judgment of the county court ;
except as otherwise prescribed in section one thousand three
hundred and sixty-seven of this act ; and except, also, that,
where the judgment is for a sum less than twenty-five
dollars, exclusive of costs, the direction to satisfy the judg
ment out of the real property of the judgment debtor must
be omitted. In that case the provisions of this act, relating
to the satisfaction of an execution out of the judgment
debtor's real property, are not applicable thereto.
§ 3044. The only mode of reviewing a judgment, ren
dered by a justice of the peace in a civil action, is by an
appeal, as prescribed in this title.
S$ 3045. An appeal may be taken by any party ag
34 Hun, 65.
grieved by the judgment. Where the judgment was ren
dered by a justice of the peace of the city of Buffalo, the
appeal must be to the superior court of that city ; in every
other case, it must be to the county court of the county
where the judgment was rendered.
§ 3046. [Am'd 1882.] An appeal must be taken, within
'ib. N.
twenty days after the entry of the judgment in the justice's docket; except that, where a defendant appeals from a 28 Hun, -m.
judgment rendered in an action, wherein he did not appear j4JJiv* 1>ro
and the summons was not personally served upon him, the
appeal may be taken within twenty days after the personal
t ervice upon him, on the part of the plaintifff, of written
notice of the entry of the judgment ; but not after the ex
piration of five years from the entry o the judgment. An
appeal is taken by serving upon the justice by whom the
judgment was rendered, and upon the respondent, a written
notice of appeal, subscribed either by th« appellant or by
his attorney in the appellate court.
§ 3047. Service of the notice of appeal upon the justice,
must be made by delivering it to him personally, or to his
c!erk, appointed pursuant to law ; but if the justice is dead,
or if neither he nor his clerk can, alter reasonable diligence,
be found within the county, service of the notice upon
the justice may be made, by delivering it to the clerk of
the appellate court. Unless the justice is dead, the appel
lant must, at the time of serving the notice, pay to the per
son to whom it is delivered the costs of the action, included
in the judgment, and the sum of two dollars, as the fee of
the justice for making the return.
§ 3048. Service of the notice of appeal upon the
respondent may be made, by delivering it, in any part of
the State, to the respondent personally, or in one of the
following methods :
1. If the respondent is a resident of the county, by
leaving it at his residence, with a person of suitable age
and discretion. If he is not a resident of the county, and
the person who appeared as his attorney upon the trial is a
resident thereof, it may be served upon the attorney, either
personally, or by leaving it at his residence, with a person of
suitable age and discretion.
2. If service within the county cannot be made, with due
diligence, upon the respondent personally, or in the method
prescribed in the foregoing subdivision, the notice of appeal
may be served upon him, by delivering it to the clerk of the
appellate court.
§ 3049. Where the appellant, seasonably and in good 28 Hun, 497.
faith, serves the notice of appeal, upon either the justice or Di 5*q '
the respondent, but omits, through mistake, inadveitence, 23 Id. 326.
or excusable neglect, to serve it upon the other, or to do j> Civ. Pro.
any other act necessary to perfect the appeal, the appellate j^'N Y.
court, upon proof by affidavit of the facts, rnav, in its state Rep.
discretion, permit the omission to be supplied, or an amend- ^
8:5.
ment to be made, upon such terms as justice requires.
5 g™- 075
§3050. If the appellant desires a stay of execution, heC2How pr
must give a written i mlertaking, executed by one or more 258.
sureties, approved by the justice who rendered the judg-5_civ. Pro.
ment, or by a judge of the appellate court, to the effop* "'
1gg
that, if the appeal is dismissed ; or if judgment is rend^
09.
and anr
against the appellant in the appellate court, and tion issued thereupon is returned wholly or partly unsatis
fied ; the sureties will pay the amount of the judgment, or
the portion thereof remaining unsatisfied, not exceeding a
sum, specified in the undertaking, which must be at least
one hundred dollars, and not less than twice the amount of
tlie judgment ; or, if the judgment in the justice's court is
for the recovery of a chattel, that the sureties will pay the
sum fixed by that judgment as the value of the chattel, to
gether with the damages, if any, awarded for the taking,
withholding, or detention thereof. A copy of the under
taking, with a notice of the delivery thereof, must be served
with the notice of appeal, and in like manner.
Sec
tion one thousand three hundred and thirty five of this act
applies to such an undertaking.
§ 3051. The delivery of the undertaking to the justice
or to his clerk appointed pursuant to law, and service of a
copy thereof, and of notice of the delivery thereof, stay the
issuing of an execution upon the judgment. If an execu
tion has been issued, the service of a copy of the undertak
ing, certified by the justice or the clerk, or accompanied
with an affidavit, showing that it is a copy, and that the
original has been duty filed, upon the officer holding the
execution, stays further proceedings thereunder,
§ 3052. Where the justice is dead, or cannot, with due
diligence, be found within the county, and he has no clerk,
appointed pursuant to law, or the clerk cannot, with due
diligence, be found within the county, the undertaking
may be filed with the clerk of the appellate court. In that
case, notice of the filing must be given to the respondent,
as prescribed in section three thousand and forty-eight of
this act, for service of a notice of appeal upon him. The
filing of the undertaking has the same effect, as the delivery
thereof to the justice ; and a copy thereof, certified by the
county clerk, served upon the officer holding an execution,
has the same effect, as if it were certified, as prescribed in
the last section.
§3053. ri he justice must, after ten and within thirty
days from the service of the notice of appeal, and the pay
ment of the costs and fee, as prescribed in section three
thousand and forty-seven of this act. make a return to the aTpellate court, annex thereto the notice of appeal aud the un
dertaking, if any has been delivered to him or to his clerk,
and file the same with the clerk of the appellate court. The
return must contain all the proceedings, including the evi
dence aud the judgment; unless the appellant has, in his
notice of appeal, demanded a new trial, in a case where he
is entitled thereto, as prescribed in article third of this title.
In a latter case, the justice must return the summons, to
gether with each warrant of attachment, order of arrest, or
requisition to replevy, or execution granted by him in the
action, with the proof of the service thereof ; the pleadings
or copies thereof ; the proceedings upon the trial ; and the judgment ; with a brief statement of the amount and nature
of the claims litigated by the parties. But he need not re
turn the evidence, or any part thereof, unless he is required
bo to do by the special order of the appellate court.
§ 3054. Where the justice has gone out of office, ho
must nevertheless, make a return in the same manner, and
his return has ihe same effect, as if he remained in office.
§ 3055. If the return is defective, the appellate court
may direct the justice to make a further or amended return,
as often as is necessary. The appellate court may com
pel the justice, by attachment, to make and file a return,
or a further or amended return. The court is always open
for those purposes. Where the justice has removed to
another county of the State, the appellate court may com
pel him to make the return, as if he was still within the
county where the judgment was rendered.
§ 3056. If the justice dies, becomes a lunatic, absconds, w n Y.
removes from the State, or otherwise becomes unable to Suuu Kl !'•
make the return, the appellate court may receive affidavits,
4B1or examine witnesses, as to the evidence and other pro
ceedings taken, and the judgment rendered, before the
justice ; and may determine the appeal, as if a return had
been duly made by the justice.
§ 3057. Where an appeal is founded upon an error in fact 49 n^ wn.
in the proceedings, not affecting the merits of the action,
and not within the knowledge of the justice, the court may
determine the matter upon affidavits ; or, in its discretion,
upon the examination of witcesses ; or in both methods.
§3058. Where the judgment of the justice is reversed
or modified, the appellate court may n.ake or compel resti
tution of property or of a right, lost by means of the erro
neous judgment ; but not so as to affect the title of a pur
chaser, in good faith and for value, of property sold by
virtue of a warrant of attachment in the action, or an
execution issued upon the judgment. In that case, tin;
appellate court may compel the value, or the purchaseprice to be restored, or deposited to abide the event of the
action, as justice requires. Six days' notice of an applica
tion for an order for restitution must be given ; and if the
application is granted before judgment, the proper direction
may be included therein
§ 3059. If, upon Ihe appeal, a sum of money Is awarded
to one party, and costs are awarded to the adverse party,
the appellate court must set off the one against the other,
and render judgment for the balance.
§ 3060. Where costs are awarded to the aptwllant he
may include, in the disbursement* upon the appeal, the
costs and fee paid to the justice upon inking the appeal ;
and, where the judgment rendered by the jwitiee wa* again
the appellant, he may also include, in thoae ilMtuntutt
the costs of the action, before the justice, wfileli he' have been entitled to recover, if the judgment of the justice
had been in his favor.
§3061. The clerk, immediately after entering final
judgment upon the determination of an appeal, must attach
together and file such of the following papers, as were
used upon the appeal ; -which constitute the judgment roll :
1. The return of the justice, or a certified copy thereof;
the notice of appeal ; and the undertaking, if any has been
given.
2. The verdict, report, or decision and each offer, if any,
made as prescribed in article third of this title.
3. A certified copy of the judgment, together with each
notice of exceptions, or case, which is then on file.
4. Every other paper, then on file, and a certified copy of
every order, which in any way involves the merits, or
necessarily affects the judgment.
§ 3062. [Am'd 1883.] If the case is one where the
Bl5appellant is not entitled to or has not demanded a new trial
in the appellate court as provided in section three thousand

and sixty eight of this act, the respondent may, within
twenty days of the service on him of the notice of appeal,
servo upon the appellant or his attorney a written stipula
tion that the judgment appealed from may be reversed
with five dollars costs and disbursements of the appeal, and
thereafter no further steps shall be taken in such appeal,
except to enter judgment in pursuance of such stipulation
for the enforcement thereof ; in case such stipulation shall
not be so served, the appeal may be brought to a hearing in
the appellate court at any term thereof at which such an
appeal can be heard, held after the return is filed, upon a
notice by either party of not less than eight days. It must
be placed upon the calendar, and must continue thereupon
without further notice until it is finally disposed of. If,
after being regularly placed upon the calendar, neither
party brings it to a hearing before the end of the second
term thereafter at which it might be noticed for hearing and
heard, the court must dismiss the appeal unless it directs
the same to be continued for cause shown. If the appeal
is to the superior court of Buffalo it must be heard at a
general term thereof.
is N. Y.
§ 3063. In a case specified in the last section, the appeal
statu Rpp. must be heard upon the original papers, or a certified copy thereof ; and a copy or copies thereof need not be furnished
for the use of the court. The appellate court must render
judgment according to the justice of the case, without re
gard to technical errors or defects, which do not affect the
merits. It may affirm or reverse the judgment of the jus
tice, in whole or in part, and as to any or all of the parties,
and for errors of law or of fact.
§ 3064. If the appeal is taken by a defendant, who
failed to appear before the justice, either upon the return
of the summons, or at the time to which the trial of the
action was adjourned ; and he shows, by affidavit or otherwise, that manifest injustice has been done, and renders a
satisfactory excuse for his default; the appellate court niav,
in its discretion, set aside the judgment appealed from, or
stay proceedings thereunder, and by order direct a new
trial, before the same justice, or before another justice of
the same county, designated in the order, at such a time
and place, specified in the order, and upon such terms, as it
deems proper.
§ S065. "Where a new trial is directed before a justice,
as prescribed in the last section, the parties must appear
before him, at the time and place specified in the order of
the appellate court, without service of any notice, or of a
copy of the order. Thereupon the like proceedings must
be had in the action, as upon the return of a summons per
sonally served.
§ 3066. Upon an appeal provided for in this article, the
award of costs is regulated as follows :
1. If the appeal is dismissed, because neither party brings
it to a hearing, as prescribed iu this article, costs shall not
be awarded to either party.
2. If the judgment is reversed for an error in fact, not
affecting the merits ; or if a new trial is directed, lieforc
the same or another justice, as prescribed in this article;
the costs of the appeal are in the discretion of the appellate
court.
3. If the judgment is affirmed, costs must be awarded to
the respondent.
4. If the judgment is reversed, costs must be awarded to
the appellant.
5. If the judgment is affirmed only in part, the costs, or
such a part thereof, as to the appellate court seems just,
not exceeding ten dollars, besides disbursements, may he
awarded to either party.
§ 3067. Upon an appeal, provided for in this article,
costs, when awarded, must be as follows, besides disburse
ments :
To the appellant, upon reversal, thirty dollars .
To the respondent, upon affirmance, twenty-five dollars.
§ 3068. When an issue of fact or an issue; of law was
BI».
joined before the justice, and the sum, for which judgment
83 Icl^g5' waa demanded by either party in his pleading, exceeds fifty
dollars ; or where, in an action to recover a chattel, the
value of the properly, as fixed, together with the damages
recovered, if any, exceeds fifty dollars ; the appellant may,
in his notice of appeal, demand a new trial in the appellate
court ; and thereupon he is entitled thereto, whether the
defendant was or was not present at the trial.
5 civ. Pro. § 3069. To render such an appeal effectual, the appel81.
hint must, at the time of the service of the notice of appeal
upon the justice, give the undertaking required, by this
title, to stay the execution of the judgment.
15 week.
§3070. [Am'd 1885.] Upon an appeal, provided for in
'oh 28854« *^ article, from a judgment for a sum of money only,
si idling. ' either party may, within fifteen days after service of the
88 id. S84. notice of appeal, serve upen the adverse party, or upon his
m id' fas' "ttorney» a written offer, to allow judgment to be rendered
si N. Y.
m tne appellate court, in favor of either party, for a specistate kep. fied sum. If the offer is not accepted, it cannot be proved
9'1- upon the trial. If the party, within ten days after service
of the offer upon him, serves upon the party making the
same, or upon his attorney, written notice that he accepts
the offer, he must file it, with an affidavit of service of the
notice of acceptance, with the clerk of the appellate court,
who thereupon must enter judgment accordingly. Where
an offer is made as above provided, the party refusing to
accept the same shall be liable for costs of the appeal, un
less the recovery shall be more favorable to him thin the
sum offered. If neither party make an offer, as provided
herein, the party in whose favor the verdict, report or de
cision in the appellate court is given, shall be entitled to
recover his costs upon the appeal.
§ 3071. Upon an appeal, provided for in this article,
after the expiration of ten days from the time of filing the
justice's return, the action is deemed an action at issue in
the appellate court ; and all the proceedings therein, in
cluding the entry, enforcement, and review of the judg
ment, are the same, as if the action had been commenced
in the appellate court, except as otherwise specially pre
scribed in this chapter.
34 N. Y.
§ 3078. Either party may, at any time after the action
state Rep. is deemed at issue in the appellate court, and before the
S87- trial, serve upon the adverse party, a written offer to allow judgment to be taken against him, for a sum, or property,
or to the effect therein specified, with or without costs. If
there are two or more defendants, and the action can be
severed, a like offer may be made by one or more defend
ants, against whom a separate judgment may be taken ;
and, if it is accepted, the action becomes severed, and may
proceed against the other defendants, as if it had been orig
inally commenced against them only. If the party receiv
ing the olfer, within ten days thereafter, serves upon the
adverse party, notice that he accepts it, lie may file it, with
proof of acceptance ; and thereupon the clerk must enter
judgment accordingly. If the offer is not thus accepted, it
cannot be proved upon the trial ; and if the part}', to whom
it was made, fails to obtain a more favorable judgment, he
cannot recover costs from the time of the offer, but must
pay costs from that time.
g 3073. Upon an appeal, provided for in this article, 50 Hun, 343.
costs, when awarded, must be as follows, besides disburse
ments :
For all proceedings before notice of trial, fifteen dollars.
For all subsequent proceedings before trial, ten dollars.
For the trial of an issue of law, fifteen dollars.
For the trial of an issue of fact, twenty dollars.
For the argument of a motion for a new trial on a case,
fifteen dollars.
For each term, not more than five, at which the appeal is
regularly on the calendar, excluding the term, at which it
is tried, or otherwise finally disposed of, ten dollars.
§ 3074. Except as otherwise specially prescribed by
law, a party who recovers judgment in an action in a jus
tice's court, is entitled to costs ; which must be included in
the judgment
Costs consist of the fees, allowed by law,
for services necessarily rendered in the action, at the request
of the party entitled to costs, or paid by him, as prescribed
by law ; and of such other expenses, as a party is entitled
to include in his costs, by express provision of law.
§ 3075. In either of the following cases, costs shall
not be awarded to either party, but each party must pay
bis own costs :
1. Where the action is discontinued by the absence of
the justice for more than one hour, after the summons is
returnable, or after the time to which the trial has been ad
journed.
2. Where the justice is disqualified, for a reason speci
fied in section forty-six of this act.
8. Where the action is discontinued, upon the ground
that the defendant is an infant, for whom a guardian ad li
tem has not been appointed.
4. In an action to recover one or more chattels, where
the plaintifff recovers a chattel, or part of a chattel, or the
value thereof, and the defendant also recovers a chattel, or
part of a chattel, which has been replevied and delivered to
the plaintifff, or the value thereof. The plaintifff is entitled
to costs, where both parties recover, as specified in this sub
division, unless the chattel, for which the defendant re
covers, has been replevied and delivered to the plaintifff.
§ 3076. The sum to be awarded, as costs, to the prevail
ing party, except where it is otherwise specially prescribed
by law, is limited as follows :
1. It cannot exceed ten dollars, besides the fees of wit
nesses, where, upon the trial of an issue of fact or of law,
either party recovers damages to the amount of fifty dollars
or more, or one or more chattels, the value of which, as
fixed, together with the damages, if any, amount to fifty dol
lars or more ; or, where, if the defendant recovers judgment,
the sum, for which the plaintifff demanded judgment, was
fifty dollars, or more, or the value of all the chattels, to
recover which the action was brought, was stated in the
complaint at fifty dollars or more.
2. In every other case, it cannot exceed five dollars,
besides the fees of witnesses, attending from another county.
But the prevailing party is entitled, in addition to the
sums specified in this section, to the fees and expenses
allowed by law, for a commission issued to examine a
witness, not residing in the county, or in an adjoining
county ; and for each adjournment, exceeding one, which
was granted upon the application of the party, against
whom the judgment is rendered.
§ 3077. Where judgment is rendered upon the trial of
a demurrer, the costs of the trial must be included therein ;
otherwise costs are not allowed upon the trial of a demurrer.
§ 3078. Where a justice renders a judgment, he must
specify, in his docket-book, the items of costs, which were
allowed by him. Before any item of costs is thus allowed,
other than a fee to the justice, or to a juror or witness who
attended, or to a constable who has certified the amount of
his fee, upon a paper filed with the justice, the party must
show, by his oath, or that of his attorney, to the satisfaction
of the justice, that the item was actually and legally paid
or incurred.
§ 3079. Increased costs must be awarded in favor of
the defendant, in an action in a justice's court, in a case,
and increased at the rate, specified in section three thousand
two hundred and fifty-eight of this act.
§ 3080. In an action against two or more defendants,
not united in interest, who make separate defenses by sep
arate answers, if the plaintifff fails to recover judgment
against all, the justice must award costs to those who have
judgment in their favor.
§ 3081. Where a justice includes in a judgment a
greater amount of costs than is allowed by law, or an im
proper item of costs or fees, and the same is collected ; the
person from whom it was collected may, notwithstanding
the judgment, recover from the justice who has received it
the amount thereof, with interest.
§ 3082. Any person, who nuffer* or permit* one or
more cattle, horses, colt*, asm*, mule*, Kwine, *he/;p or
goats, to run at large, or to lie herded or pH>tured, in a
public street, highway, park, or \i\iua'., elwwhere than In
a city, incurs, thereby tin; [(orialty or |*;n»lii«*»t ti\nf\i\'-A In
the next section; and any n-tidetit of the town, or the offi
cer to whom a fine or penally i« to \h: paid for the benefit of
the poor, as prescribed in vM<m two tliouwuid <;i?,hl hundred and seventy-five of this act, or the overseer or super
intendent of the poor of the town or district, in which on>
or more of those animals are found so running at largf
herded, or pastured, may maintain an action agaiDSt hut
in a justice's court, held in that town or district, to recover
the penalty or penalties so incurred. Where the action is
brought by a private person, the justice must pay the proceeds of an execution, issued upon a judgment therein in
favor of the plaintifff, after deducting the costs, to the
officer, who might have brought the action, as prescribed
in this section, to be applied by him to the support of tlit
poor within his town or district.
§ 3083. If the plaintifff recovers judgment, in an action
brought as prescribed in the last section, the justice must
award to him the following sums, by way of penalties, be
sides the costs of the action :
1. For each horse, colt, ass, m .":'•, c wine, bull, ox, cow,
or calf, five dollars.
2. For each sheep or goat, one dollar.
The entire amount of the penalties may be recovered, in
one action, although it exceeds the sum, for which a jus
tice can render a judgment in an ordinary action.
§ 3084. Where one or more cattle, horses, colts, asses,
mules, swine, sheep, or goats are found running at large,
or being herded or pastured, in a public street, highway,
park, or place, elsewhere than in a city, the overseer of
highways of the road district, or, if they are so found
■within an incorporated village, the street commissioner
thereof, having personal knowledge or being notified of
the fact, must immediately seize the animal or animals,
and keep it or them in his possession, until disposed of as
prescribed in the following sections of this title.
§ 3085. Any person may seize one or more animals
specified in the last section, then running at large, or being
herded or pastured, in a public street, highway, park, or
place, elsewhere than in a city, bordering upon real prop
erty owned or occupied by him ; or then trespassing upon
real property so owned or occupied, having entered there
upon from such a public street, highway, park, or place.
The person making the seizure, must keep the animal or
animals seized in his possession, until disposed of as pre
scribed in the following sections of this title.
§ 3086. An officer or other person, who seizes an ani
mal or animals, as prescribed in either of the Inst two see
tions, must, immediately file, with a justice of the peace of
the town in which the seizure was made, a written petition,
verified by his oath ; setting forth the facts, which bring
the case within cither of those sections ; briefly describing
the animal or animals seized ; stating either the name of
the owner, or that his name is not known to the petitioner,
and cannot be ascertained by him with reasonable dili
gence ; and praying for a final order, directing the sale of the animal or animals seized, and the application of the
proceeds thereof, as prescribed in this title. Where the
petition alleges, that any animal or animals seized, were
then trespassing upon re;il property owned or occupied by
the petitioner, it must state the amount of the damages, if
any, which the petitioner has sustained thereby. In that
case, the decision of the justice, or, where the issues are
tried by a jury, the verdict, must fix the amount of the
damages.
§ 3087. Upon the presentation of the petition, the
justice must issue a precept under his hand ; directed to the
owner, if his name is stated in the petition, or, if it is not
so stated, directed generally to all persons having any in
terest in the animal or animals seized ; briefly reciting the
substance of the petition ; describing the ai-imal or ani
mals seized, and requiring the person or persons, to whom
the precept is directed, to show cause before the justice, at
a time and place specified therein, not less than ten nor
more than twenty (lays, after the issuing of the precept,
why the prayer of the petition should not be granted.
$ 3088. The precept must be served upon the person,
to whom it is directed by his name, within the same time,
and in like manner as a summons is required to be served,
as prescribed in section two thousand nine hundred and ten
of this act. Where it is directed generally to all persons,
having an interest in the animal or animals seized, it may
be served by a constable of the town, or by an elector there
of, specially authorized so to do by a written indorsement
upon the precept, under the hand of the justice, by posting
a copy thereof in at least six public and conspicuous
places in the town where the seizure was made ; one of
which places must be the nearest district school house, or,
if the seizure was made within an incorporated village,
having schools in charge of a board of education, a build
ing in which such a school is kept. Each copy must be so
posted, within two days after the precept is issued. Where
the precept is directed to a person by his name, and proof
is made, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the justice, that
it cannot, with reasonable diligence, be personally served
upon that person, within the county, at least six days be
fore the return day thereof, the justice may, by a written
order, direct that service thereof be made, by posting
copies thereof, at least five days before the return day, as
prescribed in this section, in which case, service thereof
may be made accordingly.
§ 3089. At the place where the precept is returnable,
and at the expiration of Hie time specified in section two
thousand eight hundred and ninety-three of this act, the pe
titioner must, unless the precept is directed to a person by
his name, and he appears, furnish proof of the service of
the precept, as prescribed in the last section. If it was
served by a constable, either personally or by posting, his written return upon the precept is sufficient proof of the
facts relating to the service, as stated therein. If it was
served by a private person, proof of service must be made
by affidavit.
§ 3090. The owner, or a person having an interest in
any animal seized, may appear upon the return of the pre
cept, and thereby make himself a party to the special pro
ceeding. The person so appearing may, upon the return
of the precept, file a written answer, subscribed by him or
bis attorney, and verified by the oath of the person sub
scribing it, denying, absolutely or upon information and
belief, one or more material allegations contained in the
petition. His answer must also set forth his interest in the
animal or animals seized. The subsequent proceedings
must be the same as in an action in a justice's court
wherein an issue of fact has been joined, except as other
wise specially prescribed in this title.
§3091. If no person appears and answers, or if the
decision of the justice, or the verdict of the jury, where the
issues were tried by a jury, is in favor of the petitioner, the
justice must make a final order, directing the sale of the
animal or animals seized, and the application of the pro
ceeds thereof, as prescribed in this title. Thereupon the
justice must issue a warrant, under his hand, directed
generally to any constable of the county, commanding him
to sell the animal or animals seized, at public auction, for
the best price which he can obtain therefore ; and to make
return thereof to the justice, at a time and place therein
specified, not less than ten nor more than twenty
days thereafter. The sale must be made upon the like
notice, and in like manner, as a sale of property, by virtue
of an execution issued by a justice of the peace ; and the
constable must make return, as required by the warrant,
and must pay the proceeds of the sale to the justice, de
ducting therefrom his fees, at the rate allowed by law for
the collection of such an execution.
§3092. The justice must apply the proceeds of the
sale as follows :
1. He must pay the costs of the petitioner, as taxed by
the justice, at the same rales as the costs of an action
brought before him, including the justice's fees in such an
action ; and also the fees for the service of the precept,
cither personally or by posting, at the rate allowed by law
for personal service of a summons by a constable.
2. Out of the remainder of the proceeds, he may retain,
to his own use, a fee of one dollar, for eacfi animal sold.
3. Out of the remainder of the proceeds, he must pay to
the officer, or other person making the seizure, the follow
ing fees, for the seizure of each animal svized and sold, to
wit: one dollar for each horse, colt, ass, or mule; fifty
cents for each bull, ox, cow, or calf ; and twenty-five cents
for each goat, sheep, or swine ; together with a reasonable compensation, fixed by him, for the care and keeping of
each animal, from the time of the seizure to the time of the
sale ; and, also, where any animal sold was seized, while
trespassing upon real property owned or occupied by the
petitioner, the damages sustained by the petitioner in con
sequence thereof, as ascertained by the decision of the jus
tice, or the verdict of the jury, upon which the final order
was made.
4. Out of the remainder of the proceeds, he must pay to
the officer, to whom a fine or penalty is to be paid for the
benefit of the poor, as prescribed in section two thousand
eight hundred and seventy-five of this act, the following
penalties, to wit : five dollais for each horse, co'.t, ass, mule,
bull, ox, cow, calf, or swine, seized and sold ; and one
dollar for each sheep or goat, seized and sold ; which
penalties must be received by the officer, for the benefit of
the poor of his town or district.
5. If any surplus remains, he must pay the same to the
person or persons entitled thereto, as prescribed in the fol
lowing sections of this titla
§ 3093. Any person may, within ten days after the
return of the warrant, file, with the justice, a written claim
to the surplus of the proceeds of the sale, or to any part
thereof. * On the eleventh day after the return, or, if it is a
Sunday or a public holiday, on the first day thereafter,
which is neither Sunday nor a public holiday, the justice
must proceed to inquire into the claims so filed ; and, for
the purpose of determining them, he must hear the allega
tions and proofs of each claimant ; and he may issue sub;
poenas, as upon the trial of an action. He may, upon the
application of any claimant, and for good cause shown,
adjourn the heaving, from time to time, but not more than
thirty days in all. After hearing the allegations and proofs
of all the claimants, he must decide the claims, and enter
an order accordingly. If no claim is filed ; or if the right
to the surplus money, or any part thereof, is not estab
lished, to the satisfaction of the justice, as prescribed in
this section • any person, whose claim was not determined
upon the hearing, may file a claim thereto, at any time
before the expiration of a year from the return of the war
rant ; and, thereupon, the justice must proceed, as pre
scribed in this section with respect to a claim filed within
the ten days.
§ 3094. If, at the expiration of one year after the re
turn of the warrant, any portion of the surplus remains, a
claim to which has not been established to the satisfaction
of the justice, pursuant to the provisions of the last section,
the justice must pay it, for the benefit of the poor, to the
officer to whom a fine or penalty is to be paid for the bene
fit of the poor, as prescribed in section two thousand eight
hundred and seventy-five of this act ; and, thereupon, all
peisons are forever barred from any claim thereto. But if a claim, filed as prescribed in the last section, remains un
determined at the expiration of the year, the justice must
determine it within ten days thereafter ; and, for that pur
pose, he must retain the surplus in his hands until the de
termination.
£ 3095. An appeal from an order determining a claim,
as prescribed in the last two sections, may be taken to the
county court, by a claimant, within ten days after the
making of the order, as from a judgment of a justice in
an action to recover a sum equal to the claim ; and the pro
ceedings thereupon are the same, except that an undertak
ing is not necessary for any purpose. Upon such an ap
peal, each other claimant, whose interest is affected by the
order appealed from, must be made a respondent. If there
is no such claimant, the officer entitled to the surplus must
be made respondent ; but costs cannot be awarded against
him, unless he appears upon the appeal ; in which case, the
costs are in the discretion of the appellate court. Where
an appeal, taken as prescribed in this section, is perfected,
the county judge may, in his discretion, make an order
extending the time, within which payment of the surplus
must be made, as prescribed in the last section, and staying
payment accordingly. Unless such an order is made, and
a copy thereof is served upon the justice, payment must
be made as prescribed in the last section, notwithstanding
the appeal ; and upon proof of the payment, the appeal
must be dismissed. Where an appeal is taken to the su
preme court, from the determination of the cotfnty court,
the county judge, or a justice of the supreme court may
make a like order, and with like effect.
§ 3096. If the decision of the justice, or the verdict of
the jury, where the issues are tried by a jury, is in favor
of the person answering, it must fix the value of each
animal seized. If the justice or the jury find that the
seizure was malicious, and without probable cause, the
decision or verdict must assess the damages sustained by the
person answering, by means of the seizure and detention.
The justice must thereupon make a final order, awarding
to the person so answering, the return of the animal or
animals so seized, or the value thereof if a return cannot
be had ; together with his costs, at the rates allowed by
law in an action brought before him to recover a chattel ;
and, also, twice the sum assessed as his damages, if any.
Thereupon a warrant must be issued by the justice to a
constable, to the same effect, as an execution issued, in an
action to recover a chattel, upon a judgment in favor of
the defendant, where the chattel has not been delivered to
him ; and each provision of this chapter, relating to a
judgment and an execution in such a case, applies to a
final order made, and a warrant issued thereupon, as pre
scribed in this section.
§ 3097. At any time after the precept is issued, and before the commencement of the trial, the owner of any
animal seized may file with the justice a written demand
of the possession thereof. Thereupon he is entitled to the
possession, upon complying with the following terms :
1. He must pay to the justice, for the use of the peti
tioner, the costs of the proceedings, to the time of filing
the demand, as prescribed in subdivision first of section
three thousand and ninety-two of this act, and, also, the
sums payable on account of each animal, whereof posses
sion is so demanded, as prescribed in subdivision third of
the same section ; which sums must be fixed by the justice,
after hearing the allegations and proofs of the parties.
2. He must also pay to the justice, a fee of one dollar
for each animal, whereof possession is so demanded.
3. If the petitioner is an officer, to whom a fine or penalty
is to be paid for the benefit of the poor, as prescribed in
section two thousand eight hundred and seventy-five of
this act, the claimant must also pay to the justice, for the
petitioner's use, the sum specified therein on account of each
animal, whereof possession is so demanded.
4. The claimant mutt also prove, to the satisfaction of
the justice, by affidavit or other competent evidence, that
he is the owner of each animal, whereof possession is so
demanded. Each person who has appeared must have
notice of, and may oppose, the claim.
§ 3098. But where, in a case specified in the last
section, the person filing a demand, presents therewith to
the justice sufficient proof, by affidavit or otherwise, that
the running at large, herding, pasturing, or trespassing, by
reason whereoi the animal or animals, of which he demands
possession, were seized, was caused by the willful act, in
tended to effect that object, of a person other than tho
owner ; and also makes the proof specified in subdivision
fourth of that section ; he is entitled to possession, pursu
ant to his demand, upon paying to the petitioner, or to the
justice for his use. a reasonable sum, to be fixed by the
justice, after hearing the allegations and proofs of the
parties, as compensation for the care and keeping of the
animal or animals, whereof possession is so demanded, and
without paying any other sum, specified in the last
section.
§ 3099. The owner of an animal, seized in consequence
of a willful act specified in the last section, may recover,
in an action against the person who committed it, all
damages sustained by him. in consequence thereof, includ
ing the sum ] aid in order to recover possession of the
animal, as prescribed in the last section ; and, in addition
thereto, the sum of twenty dollars for each animal seized.
§3100. Where the possession of an animal has been
delivered, as prescribed in the last section but one, an ac
tion may also be maintained, by the petitioner in the
special proceeding before the j usjj'- - Gainst the person who committed the willful act, to recover, in addition to all other
damages sustained by the plaintifff in consequence of the
willful act, all sums, to which the plaintifff would have been
entitled out of the proceeds of the sale, as prescribed in sec
tion three thousand and ninety-two of this act, other than
the compensation paid for the care and keeping of the
animal. In the like case, if the petitioner is a private person,
the officer, to whom a fine or penalty is to be paid for the
benefit of the poor, as prescribed in section two thousand
eight hundred and seventy-five of this act, may maintain an
action against the person, who committed the willful act, to
recover the penalties to which the plaintifff would have been
entitled, out of the proceeds of the sale, as prescribed in that
subdivision. Neither of the actions specified in this or the
last section is affected by the pendency of, or the recovery
of judgment in, either of the others.
6 3101. A person, entitled to demand the possession of an
animal, as prescribed in section three thousand and ninetyseven of this act, who did not appear upon the return of the
precept, or upon the trial, may file, with the justice, a
written demand of the possession, at any time after the
final order, and not less than three days before the time
appointed for the sale ; and, thereupon, he is entitled to the
possession, upon complying with the following terms :
1. He must furnish, by affidavit or other competent evi
dence, a sufficient excuse, to the satisfaction of the justice,
for his failure to appeaT.
2. He must, in all respects, comply with the provisions
of section three thousand and ninety seven of this act ;
except that it is necessary for him to pay only one half of
the justice's fee, as prescribed in subdivision second of that
section ; and one half of the fees payable to the petitioner,
for the seizure of each animal, as prescribed in subdivision
third of section three thousand and ninety-two of this act.
§3102. Where a demand for the return of the posses
sion of an animal is filed, as prescribed in either of the last
five sections, the justice must, at the request of either party
thereto, make, and enter in his minutes, an order determin
ing the same. An appeal from such an order may be taken
to the county court, by the person making the demand, or
by either party to the special proceeding, at any time before
the final order in the special proceeding is made ; and each
person or party so entitled to appeal, must be made a re
spondent upon an appeal taken by one of the others. The
appeal must be taken in like manner, as an appeal from a
judgment of the justice in au action to recover a chattel:
and the proceedings thereupon are the same, except as oth
erwise prescribed in the next section.
§ 3103. An appeal from an order, specified in the last
section, is not effectual for any purpose, unless the appellant
procures from the county judge an order, directing a stay of
the proceedings upon the petition, and a stay of the cxecution of the order appealed from, and files it with the justice,
within the time allowed for the appeal. The order may be
granted or refused, in the discretion of the county judge, or
granted apon such terms, as to security or otherwise, as he
thinks proper ; and it may be vacated or modified, either
absolutely, or unless further .security is given, in his discre
tion.
§ 3104, Within ten days after a final order upon a
petition is made, as prescribed in this title, an appeal there
from may be taken by the petitioner, or by the person
answering, in like manner as an appeal from a judgment of
the justice in an action to recover a sum of money, equal to
the value of the animal or animals, and the proceedings
thereupon are the same, except as otherwise prescribed in
the next section.
§3105. An appeal from a final order, taken, as pre
scribed in the last section, by the person answering, is not
effectual for any purpose, unless the appellant files, with
the notice of appeal, an order of the county judge, or, if
he is absent from the county, of a justice of the supreme
court, reciting that the appeal has been perfected, and that
security has been given thereupon, as prescribed in this
section, and directing a stay of proceedings upon the final
order appealed from, and that the possession of the animal
or animals seized be delivered to the appellant. The order
can be made, only where an undertaking is given by the
appellant, as required for the purpose of perfecting an
appeal from a judgment, and staying the execution thereof ;
and also an undertaking, in the same or another instru
ment, to the effect that, if the final order appealed from is
affirmed, or if the appeal is dismissed, the appellant will
pay all sums which the justice awards against him, upon
the hearing, after the determination of the appeal, as pre
scribed in the next section, not exceeding a sum specified
therein ; which must be, at least, twice the amount of all
the sums, which might be deducted from the proceeds of
the sale, as prescribed in section three thousand and ninetytwo of this act. The sum must be fixed, and the under
taking must be approved, by the judge who grants the
order. Upon filing the order with the justice, the appellant
is forthwith entitled to the possession of the animal or
animals seized.
§ 3106. If the final order appealed from is affirmed,
upon an appeal taken by the person answering, the county
court must appoint a time and place, at which the justice
must fix the sums payable by the appellant, pursuant to
his undertaking. The! justice may adjourn the hearing to
another place, and to another time, not exceeding three
days after the time so appointed. The justice must fix the
sums so payable, as if a warrant for the sale of the animals
seized had been returned, and the proceeds thereof paid to
him by the constable, as prescrii>"'' in section three thousand and ninety-two of this act. The undertaking upon the
appeal enures to the benefit of each officer, to whom any
sum is payable, as prescribed in that section ; and with
respect to any of those sums, the respondent is a trustee for
the officer entitled thereto.
§ 3107. Where an animal is seized, upon the ground
that it was running at large, or was being herded or past
ured, or was trespassing, contrary to the provisions of this
title ; and the officer or other person making the seizure,
immediately files his petition, and diligently prosecutes the
same, as prescribed in this title ; an action to recover the
animal so seized, or to recover damages for the seizure, or
for any act subsequent thereto, must be commenced within
one year after the cause of action accrues.
§ 3108. A person, to whom the precept was directed by
his name, and who was personally served therewith, or a
person who has appeared and answered in the special pro
ceeding, or demanded the return of any animal seized, can
not maintain an action against the officer or other person
seizing an animal, or a person acting by his command, or
in his aid, in a case specified in the last section. But, ex
cept as specified in this section, the owner of an animal
seized or detained, under color of any provision of this
title, may maintain an action to recover the animal, or its
value, or damages for the seizure or detention, or for any
unlawful act subsequent thereto, if, in fact, the animal was
not, at the time of the seizure, running at large, or being
herded or pastured, or trespassing, as the case may be, as
specified in the foregoing provisions of this title.
§ 3109. Tor the purpose of determining the damages
sustained by the petitioner, where two or more animals are
found simultaneously trespassingupon real property, owned
or occupied by him, all the damage done by all the animals
seized, is to be regarded as done by them jointly ; and the
petitioner's remedy therefore is entire, ancj must be enforced
against all the animals, and the proceeds of the sale thereof.
Where different persons, who are known, own different
animals seized, the precept must be directed to all of them
by their names. If one or tnore of the owners are known,
and the others are unknown, and cannot be ascertained
with reasonable diligence, the precept must be directed to
each known owner, by his name, and, also generally to all
persons having an interest in those animals, the owners of
which are unknown. In a case specified in this section, a
■ demand of the possession of an animal seized cannot be
made, as prescribed in section three thousand and ninetyseven or three thousand one hund red and one of this act,
unless it is made with respect to all the animals seized, and
by persons entitled to the possession of a'l of them. But a
separate demand may be made, as prescribed in section
three thousand and ninety-eight of this act, by each owner
of one or more animals seized ; in which case, if possession is delivered to him, as prescribed in that section, the peti
tioner's remedy for his damages is the same, with respect to
the animai or animals, of which possession is not so de
livered, and against the proceeds of the sale thereof, as if
those, whereof possession is so delivered had not been tres
passing upon the property.
§3110. Where the petitioner docs not allege, that the
animals seized were trespassing upon real property owned
or occupied by him, and different persons own different
animals seized, a separate special proceeding may be insti
tuted, as prescribed in this title, against each owner, or
against any two or more owners, with respect to the animals
owned by him or tliem. Or the proceedings may be taken
against all the owners jointly ; in which case, each person
to whom the precept is directed by his name, and each
person having an interest in an animal seized, has the same
right to demand the possession of the animal owned by
him, and the same right to answer separately, as if the
special proceeding was against him separately ; and the
final order may be in favor of one or more of the persons
so answering, with respect to the animal or animals owned
by him or them, and for his or their costs ; and against the
remainder of the persons answering, or to whom the pre
cept was directed, or for the sale of the remainder of the
animals, in like manner, as if the former persons had not
answered, or had not been named in the precept. But the
person, first making a demand of the possession of any
animal seized, must pay all the costs to the time of the de
mand ; and a person, subsequently making a demand, is
excused from the payment of any costs, except those which
have accrued since the former demand.
§3111. Where proceedings are taken jointly against
different persons, who own different animals seized, as pre
scribed in either of the last two sections, the surplus, re
maining in the justice's hands, must be distributed between
them, in proportion to the value of the animals owned by
each, to be determined by the justice. Any owner may
claim separately his proportion of the surplus ; and sections
three thousand and ninety-three and three thousand and
ninety-four of this act apply to a claim made, and to the
disposition of the surplus arising, as prescribed in this sec
tion.
§ 3112. Where two or more persons, or an officer and
a private person, arc authorized, by this title, to bring an
action, or to seize an animal, and take the proceedings pre
scribed in this title for the disposition thereof, the com
mencement of an action, or the seizure of the animal, by
either of them, supersedes the right of any of the others to
bring such an action, or to make such a seizure, with re
spect to the animal seized, or in question in the action. But
the justice may, in his discretion, allow an officer or other
person, who is interested in the recovery, or in the application of the proceeds of the sale, to appear in the action or
special proceeding, for the purpose of protecting his inter
est, and to take such part in the proceedings therein, as the
justice thinks proper.
§ 3113. Where a seizure is made hy a private person, as
prescribed in this title, and the possession of an animal
seized is abandoned by him, without tiling a petition ; or
where an action, brought hy a private person, as prescribed
in this title, is settled or discontinued by the plaintifff ; the
officer, to whom a penalty is payable, as prescribed in sec
tion three thousand and eighty-three of this act, or in sub
division fourth of section three thousand and ninety-two of
this act, may, unless he has assented to the abandonment,
settlement, or discontinuance, maintain an action against
the owner of the animal in question, to recover the penalty
so payable to him ; and, upon proof of the facts, which
would have entitled the plaintifff in the former action, or
the petitioner in the special proceeding, to recover, he is en
titled to judgment accordingly.
§3114. When a person is, at the time of the seizure,
entitled to the possession of an animal, as against the gen
eral owner thereof, by virtue of a special property therein,
lie is deemed, for all the purposes of this title, the owner
thereof.
§ 3 1 1 5. The duly authorized agent of the owner or per
son entitled to the possession of an animal, as specified in
the last section, may, in his own name, answer, make any
demand, or take any other proceeding, which the owner
or person so entitled, may take, as prescrihed in this title.
§3116. A person shall not hold the office of justice of
the peace for the sixth judicial district of the city of Brooklyn, unless he lias been regularly admitted to practice as an
attorney and counsellor at law, in the courts of record of
the State.
§ 3117. In addition to the jurisdiction conferred gen
erally by law, upon justices of the peace, each justice
of the peace of the city of Brooklyn has civil jurisdic
tion, as prescribed in subdivisions first, second, third,
fourth, and seventh of section two thousand eight
hundred and sixty two of this act, where the sum
claimed, or the value of a chattel, or of all the chattels
claimed, together with the damages claimed, if any does
not exceed two hundred and fifty dollars.
§8118. In an action or a special proceeding before a
justice of the peace of the cily of Brooklyn, costs must be
awarded and collected, as in a like action or special pro
ceeding before another justice ; but the justice shall not
retain, to his own use, any costs, or any fee, or other re
ward for his services, except in a special proceeding, insti
tuted as prescribed in title second of chapter seventeenth of
this act. Each of those justices must, between the first
and the tenth days of each month, render to the comptrol
ler of that city an account, verified by his oath, of all costs,
fees, fines, penalties, and other money, collected or received
by him, by virtue of his office, during the preceding
month ; except for damages awarded, or costs actually paid
to a party to a civil action, or special proceeding; costs,
actually paid to another officer, in such an action or special
proceeding ; and such fees, as the justice is entitled to re
tain to his own use, as prescribed in this section. The
justice must pay to the comptroller, at the time of so
rendering his account, the full amount of the money so ac
counted for. Each of those justices is entitled, in lieu of
all fees and perquisites, other than the fees which he is so
entitled to retain, to an annual salary, fixed and to be paid
as prescribed by law.
§ 3119. Each justice of the peace of the city of Brooklyn
has a clerk, who is nominated by the justice, and appointed
by him, subject to confirmation by the common council of
that city; and may be removed by the justice at his pleas
ure. Each clerk is entitled, in lieu of all fees ami per
quisites, to an annual salary, fixed and to be paid as pre
scribed by law. Each clerk, lx-fore entering upon the
duties of his office, must execute to the city of Brooklyn,
and file in (lie city clerk's office, a bond, in the penalty of
two thousand dollars, with at least two sureties, approved
by a justice of the supreme court, residing in the second
judicial district; conditioned for the faithful performance
of his duties as clerk, and for the accounting for, and pay
ing over, as directed by law, of all money received by him
as clerk. Any paper, which, elsewhere, must or may be
filed with a justice of the peace, must or may, in the city
of Brooklyn, be filed with the clerk of the proper justice.
§ 3120. Each clerk, of a justice of the peace of the city
of Brooklyn must, under the direction of the justice, per
form the following duties :
1. He must keep the docket-book, required to be kept by
a justice of the peace, as prescribed in sections three
thousand one In ndred and forty, three thousand one
hundred and forty-one, and three thousand one hundred
and forty-two of this act.
2. He must file, carefully preserve, and deliver to his suc
cessor in office, every paper, delivered to him to be filed, as
prescribed in the last section.
3. He must certify and furnish, upon request, and pay
ment of the fees prescribed by law therefore, a transcript of
any judgment rendered by the justice, or a copy of any
record or paper, in his possession as clerk. A transcript or
copy so certified, has the same effect, and must be received
in evidence in like maimer, as if it was certified by the
justice, by or before whom the judgment was rendered, or
the proceeding was taken.
4. Upon the request of a person entitled thereto, he must
issue, in like manner and with like effect as the justice
might issue the same, a summons in a civil action brought
before the justice ; or a subpoena in such an action, or in a
civil special proceeding brought before the justice; or an
execution against property, upon a judgment rendered by
the justice.
G. If the justice is absent, upon the return of a mandate
in a civil action or special proceeding, or at the time and
place to which the trial or hearing is adjourned, and the
case is not one, where it is specially prescribed by law, that,
if the justice is absent, another justice of the same city must
take cognizance thereof, the clerk may, and upon the ap
plication of either party, he must, adjourn the cause from
time to time, until the justice attends ; and thereupon the
action or special proceeding does not abate, in consequence
of the justice's absence. But the cause shall not be so ad
journed, for a longer period than six days, at one time ex
cept with the consent of both parties.
6. lie must account for, under oath, and pay to the
comptroller of the city of Brooklyn, between the first and
the tenth days of each month, all fees, fines, penalties, and
other money, collected or received by him as clerk, during
the preceding month; except as specified in section three
thousand one hundred and eighteen of this act, with respect
to the account to he rendered by the justice.
7. He must perform such other duties, not inconsistent
with this act, as are required of him by the justice.
§3121. There is an interpreter for the police court of
the city of Brooklyn, and the justices' courts of the first,
second, and third districts of that city, who is appointed,
and may lie removed at pleasure, by the justices of those
courts, or a majority of them. He is entitled to an annual
salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law.
§3122. There is an Interpreter for the justices' courts
of the fourth and fifth districts of the city of Brooklyn,
who is appointed, an.l may be removed at pleasure, by the
justices of the peace of those districts. He is entitled to
an annual salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law.
§ 3123. There is an interpreter for the justice's court of
the sixth district of the city of Brooklyn, who is appointed
by the justice of the peace of that district, subject to con
firmation by the common council, and may be removed by
that justice at his pleasure. He is entitled to an annual
salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law.
§3124. The common council of the city of Brooklyn
may, where it deems it necessary, upon the request of a
justice, appoint one or more interpreters for justices' courts
in that city, in addition to those provided for in the last
three sections ; fix their salaries ; and prescribe the court or
courts which they must attend. An officer, so appointed,
may be removed by the common council, for cause.
§ 3125. The common council of the city of Brooklyn
may designate one or more policemen, or constables, to
attend each of the justices' courts in that city. The com
mon council may, by ordinance or otherwise, fix and define
their duties in and about those courts, and may allow them
such compensation, in lieu of all fees and perquisites, as it
deems proper.
§ 3126. In an action brought in a justice's court of tha'UiMM*Wi
city of Brooklyn, to recover upon or for the breach of a ComoL Act.
contract express or implied, the plaintifff may serve upon
the defendant, with the summons, and in like manner, a
copy of a written complaint, verified in like manuer as a
verified pleading in the supreme court. In that case, unless
the defendant, upon the return of the summons ; or, if tha
cause has been adjourned by the clerk, as prescribed in sub
division fifth of section three thousand one hundred and
twenty of this act, at the time to which it was adjourned ;
files a written answer, verified in like manner, denying one
or more material allegations, or, generally, each allega
tion of the complaint, or setting forth new matter, con
stituting one or more defenses or counterclaims,
the justice must render judgment in favor of
the plaintifff, for the num claimed in the complaint,
with costs, without putting the plaintifff to any proof. The
provisions of this section apply, where the action is against
two or more defendants jointly indebted, and the summons
and a copy of the complaint are served upon one or more,
but not upon all of them ; in which case, judgment may be
taken, as prescribed in this section, against all the defend
ants, in like manner and with like effect, as a judgment
taken as prescribed in section three thousand and twenty
of this act.
§ 3127. In an action in a justice's court of the city of
Brooklyn, a trial by jury is waived, unless a party demands it, at the time when an issue of fact is joined, and
at the same time deposits, with the clerk, oue dollar and
fifty cents, for the jurors' fees, and also one dollar and
twenty-five cents, for the officer's fees for notifying the
jurora, and taking charge of the jury. Where a jury trial
Is so demanded, the trial may be adjourned until a time
fixed for the return of the venire.
§ 3128. A justice of the peace of the city of Brooklyn
may, in his discretion, at any time within twenty days after
a judgment has been rendered by him, upon the defend
ant's default in appearing upon the relurn of the summons,
or at the trial ; and upon such reasonable notice to the
plaintifff, or his attorney, as the justice thinks proper, make
an order, opening the default ; allowing the defendant to
appear and defend the action ; aud setting aside the judg
ment, or staying proceedings thereon. The justice may, in
his discretion, impose, as a condition of making such an
order, the payment by the defendant to the plaintifff of a
fixed sum, not exceeding ten dollars as costs. He may also
require the defendant to give an undertaking to the plain
tiff, in a sum fixed by the justice, with one or more sureties,
to the effect that the defendant will pay the amount of any
judgment? that may be rendered against him in the action.
The justice may also direct that the judgment, and a levy,
if any, made by virtue of an execution issued thereupon,
stand as security for any judgment, which the plaintifff may
ultimately recover before him.
§ 3129. In an action brought in a justice's court of the
city of Brooklyn, where the plaintifff, or a defendant inter
posing a counterclaim, recovers a judgment for one hun
dred dollars or more, the prevailing party, if he is entitled
to costs in the action, recovers the following sums as costs,
in addition to the costs allowed by title ninth of this
chapter :
1. Where the adverse party fails to appear upon the re
turn of the summons, or at the trial, seven dollars.
2 Where a trial is had, twelve dollars.
§ 3130. A defendant, who recovers judgment in an ac
tion in a justice's court of the city of Brooklyn, wherein the
complaint demands judgment for one hundred dollars or
more, or the recovery of one or more chattels, the value of
which, as stated in the complaint, together with the dam
ages claimed, if any, is one hundred dollars or more, re
covers the following sums as costs, in addition to the costs
allowed by title ninth of this chapter :
1. If the judgment was rendered without a trial, seven
dollars.
2 If the judgment was rendered after a trial, ten
dollars.
But this section does not apply to a case, where the de
fendant is entitled to the costs specified in the la-t section
§ 3181. [Am'd 1890.] In an action brought in a justice's i H24, Concourt of the city of Brooklyn to recover a sum of money, ""'• Act"
for wages earned by a female employe other than a domes
tic servant, or for material furnished by such employe in
the course of her employment, or in or about the subjectmatter thereof, or for both, the plaintifff, if entitled to costs,
recovers the sum of ten dollars as costs in addilion
to the costs allowed by title ninth of this chapter,
unless the amount of damages recovered is less
than ten dollars, in which case the plaintifff
recovers the sum of five dollars as such additional costs.
Where the employe is the plaintifff in such an action she
is entitled, upon a settlement thereof, to the full amount of
costs which she would have recovered if judgment had been
rendered in her favor for the sum received by her upon the
settlement. In such action brought in said court, if the
plaintifff recover a judgment for a sum not exceeding fifty
dollars, exclusive of costs, no property of the defendant
shall be exempt from levy and sale, by virtue of an execu
tion against property issued thereupon ; and, if such an
execution is returned wholly or partly unsatisfied, the clerk
must, upon the application of the plaintifff, issue an execu
tion against the person of the defendant for the sum
remaining uncollected. A defendant arrested by virtue of
an execution so issued against his person, must be actually
confined in the jail and is not entitled to the liberties
thereof ; but he must be discharged after having been so
confined fifteen days. After his discharge an execution
against his person cannot be again issued upon the judg
ment, but the judgment creditor may enforce the judgment
against property as if the execution, from which the judg
ment debtor is discharged, had been returned without his
being taken.
§ 3132. Where an application is made for a second or
subsequent adjournment of the trial of an action, brought
in a justice's court of the city of Brooklyn, after it has been
once adjourned, the justice may, in his discretion, require
payment to the adverse party of a sum, not exceeding five
dollars, besides disbursements, as a condition of granting the
application.
§3133. Each justice of the peace of the city of Brook
lyn is a justice of the peace of Kings county ; and each
provision of this act. relating to the proceedings before a
justice of the peace of a town, applies to the proceedings
before a justice of the peace of that city, except as other
wise specially prescribed in this title. Each of those
justices must hold his court open, from nine o'clock in the
movning, until three o'clock in the afternoon
6. The issuing of a venire ; stating upon whose applica
tion it was issued, and the time and place of the return
thereof.
7. The time when a trial was had ; and, if it was by a
jury, the name; of all the persons returned as having been
notified to attend as jurors ; stating who did not attend ;
who attended ; and who were sworn.
8. The name of each witness sworn upon the trial ; stating
at whose request he was sworn ; each objection made to the
competency of a witness ; and the decision thereupon.
9. The verdict of the jury, and the time of receiving it ;
or if the jury disagreed and were discharged, a statement of
that fact.
10. A concise statement of the substance of each order,
made by him in the course of the action or special proceed
ing.
11. The judgment or final order; and the time of enter
ing it.
12. The execution ; the time of issuing it ; the kind of
execution ; the name of the officer to whom it was deliv
ered ; and each renewal with the date thereof.
18. The return of each execution ; the time of the re
turn ; and a slatement of any money paid to the justice
thereupon, and when and by whom it was paid.
14. Each transcript of the judgment, given by him to be
filed in the county clerk's office, and the time when it was
given.
15. The appeal, if any ; and the time of service of the
notice of appeal.
§ 3141. Each of the entries, specified in the last section,
must be made under the title of the action or special pro
ceeding to which it relates ; and, in addition thereto, the jus
tice may enter in like manner any other proceeding, had
before him in the action or special proceeding, which he
thinks proper to enter. A docket book, kept by a justice,
must be kept open, during the hours, when a sheriffs office
is required by law to be kept open, for search and exami
nation by any person,' upon his reasonable request and to a
reasonable extent.
6 3142. A justice of the peace must keep an alphabetical
index to all the judgments, entered by him in his docketbook ; and he must insert therein the names of all the par
ties to each judgment, and the page of the book, where the
judgment is entered.
§ 3143. A justice of the peace must carefully file and
preserve each affidavit or other paper, delivered to him to be
filed in an action or special proceeding.
§ 3144. If a justice of the peace, either before or after
the expiration of his term of office, removes from the town
or city wherein he was elected, he must forthwith deposit,
with the clerk of that town or city, his docket-book, and all
other books and papers, in his custody, relating to an action or a special proceeding, which has been heard by him, or
commenced before him. A justice, who is removed from
office, must make a like deposit, within ten days after re
ceiving notice of his removal, or afterwards, upon the de
mand of the clerk of the town or city. But the omission of
the justice to make the deposit, does not affect the validity
of any book or paper, so required to be deposited, or of any
proceeding to which it relates.
§3145. A justice of the peace must make, in each 40 Hon, 151.
docket-book deposited by him, as prescribed in the last sec
tion, a certificate under his hand, to the effect that each judg
ment or order, entered therein, was duly rendered or made,
as therein stated ; and that the sum, appearing by the book
to be due thereupon, has not been paid, to his knowledge.
§ 3146. If a justice of the peace dies, or his office be
comes otherwise vacant, the town or city clerk must demand
and receive all books and papers, which belonged to the
justice in his official capacity, from any pewon having
them in his possession.
§ 3147. If any book or paper, required to be deposited
with the town or city clerk, as prescribed in this title, is
withheld, the like proceedings may be had, at the instance
of the town or city clerk, to compel the deposit thereof, as
are prescribed by law, where an officer refuses or neglects
to deliver a book or paper in his custody as such officer, to
his successor in office.
§ 3148. An entry made, as prescribed by law, in the
docket-book kept by a justice of the peace, and deposited
with the town or city clerk, as prescribed in this title, is
presumptive evidence of the matters of fact stated therein ;
but the presumption may be repelled by proof.
§ 3149. A justice of the peace must furnish, upon re
quest, and payment of his fees, to any person interested in
a judgment or order entered by him, a transcript of the
judgment or order, together with a copy of all the entries
in his docket-book, relating to the cause ; a copy of his
minutes of the evidence in the cause, or the substance of
the testimony, if he has not taken minutes; and a copy of
any paper on file in the cause ; or such portions thereof as
are required.
§ 3150. If the term of office of a justice of the peace
is about to expire, or he is about to remove from the town
or city, before judgment is rendered in an action, or » final
order is made in a special proceeding, pending before him,
he must previously make a written order, reciting the fact,
and directing the action or special proceeding to be con
tinued before another justice of the same town or city,
named in the order.
§ 3151. If, before an issue of fact is joined in an action 27 Hun, 21.
or special proceeding, the defendant, or, where he has not
been arrested, his attorney, presents to the justice satisfactory proof, by affidavit, that the justice, before whom the
action or special proceeding is pending, is a material wit
ness for the defendant, without whose testimony he cannot
safely proceed to trial, setting forth therein the particular
facts and circumstances, which he expects to prove by him,
the justice must forthwith make a written order, directing
the action or special proceeding to be continued before
another justice of the same town or city, named in the
order.
§ 3152. Where an order is made, as prescribed in either
of the last two sections, the constable must forthwith take
it, and all other papers in the action, with the body of the
defendant, if he is under srrest, before the justice named
in the order. The plaintifff or petitioner must forthwith
appear before that justice, who must take cognizance of
the action or special proceeding, and must proceed therein
as if it had been commenced before him. Costs, recovered
in the action or special proceeding, include the fees allowed
by law, for services performed by the constable and the
justice, before the transfer, together with the fees allowed
by law, for the proceedings before the justice to whom the
cause is transferred.
§ 3153. A justice of the peace, who neglects or refuses,
within a reasonable time after demand, to pay any money,
collected by him in his official capacity, to the person en
titled thereto, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be
punished accordingly. A conviction also operates as a for
feiture of his office.
§ 3154. In an action upon a judgment of a justice of
the peace, brought in the county wherein it was rendered,
within five years after the rendition thereof, against a de
fendant upon whom the summons was personally served,
no costs can be recovered, except where the justice, who
rendered the judgment, is dead, or out of office, or other
wise incapable of acting ; or has removed from the county;
or where one of the parties has died ; or where the docket
of the judgment has been lost or destroyed.
§ 3155. In an action brought upon a judgment of a
justice of the peace, who is dead, or out of office, or other
wise incapable of acting ; or has removed from the county;
or cannot be found therein ; the original docket-book of the
justice is presumptive evidence of any matter entered
therein, as prescribed bylaw; but the presumption may
be repelled by proof. If the docket-book is lost or de
stroyed, or if it cannot be produced, after reasonable effort
to obtain it, the like proof may be given, respecting the
recovery of the judgment, as upon any other question <,f
fact.
§ 3 1 56. A justice of the peace, who issues any mandate,
authorized by this chapter, except a venire, may, at the
request of the party, whenever he deems it expedient so to
do, empower, by a written authority indorsed upon mandate, any proper person of full age, not a party to the
action, to serve, or otherwise execute it. For that pur
pose, the person so empowered has all the power and au
thority, and is subject to all the obligations and liabilities,
of a constable ; and his return is evidence in like manner
as a constable's. But a person so empowered is not entitled
to any fee or reward for his services.
§ 3157. A constable, to whom a mandate is directed and
delivered as prescribed in this chapter, must execute it in
person, pursuant to the tenor thereof. He cannot act by
deputy in such a case.
§ 3158. If a constable, to whom a mandate, issued by
a justice of the peace, is directed and delivered, finds, or
has reason to apprehend, that resistance will be made to the
execution thereof, he may deliver it to the sheriff of the
county, with a written certificate, stating the facts, and
requiring the sheriff to execute it. Thereupon the sheriff
must execute the mandate ; and he is subject to all the lia
bilities attaching to a constable in executing it. Sections
one hundred and four, one hundred and five, and one hun
dred and six of this act apply to a mandate delivered to a
sheriff as prescribed in this section.
§ 3159. Each of the foregoing provisions of this act,
■which is made, by chapter twenty-second of this act,
applicable to the marine court of the city of New York, or
generally to courts of record, is subject to the qualifications
and exceptions expressed or plainly implied in this title.
| 3160. Sections four hundred and thirty-eight and six
mir>dred and three, sections six hundred and eleven to six
hundred and nineteen, both inclusive, and sections six
hundred and thirty-six, eight hundred and twenty-seven,
one tn0U8and and thirteen, and one thousand and fifteen of
this act do not apply to an action or a special proceeding
brought in the mariue court of the city of New York, or
before a justice thereof, or to any proceeding therein. Sec
tions three thousand two hundred and sixty-eight and
three thousand two hundred and sixty-nine of this act do
not apply to an action in the court, prosecuted as prescribed
in article third of this title ; or where an undertaking has
been given as prescribed in section three thousand one
hundred and sixty-five of this act. A plaintifff, in an
action brought in the court, who has an office for the
regular transaction of business in person, within the city
of New York, is deemed a resident of that city, within the
meaning of sections three thousand two hundred and sixtyeight and three thousand two hundred and sixty-nine of
this act.
§3161. The time for personal service of certain notices,
in an action brought in the court, is as follows :
1 . Notice of justification of the sureties, in an under
taking given by the plaintifff, as security for the defendant's
costs, not more than two days.
2. Notice of an application for judgment in a case speci
fied in section live hundred and thirty-seven of this act ;
notice of a motion to strike out a pleading, in a case speci
fied in section five hundred and thirty-eight of this act ;
notice of an application for judgment upon the defendant's
default, or of the execution of a reference, or writ of in
quiry, or of an assessment thereupon, as prescribed in sec
tion one thousand two hundred and nineteen of this act ;
not less than two days.
8. Notice of the justification of bail, not less than two,
nor more than ten days.
4. Notice of a motion, other than a motion specified in
subdivision second of this section, not less than four days ;
but the court or a justice thereof may, upon an affidavit
showing grounds therefore, prescribe a shorter time, by an
order to show cause.
5. Notice of trial of an issue of fact, or of an issue of
law ; notice of the hearing of an appeal, or of any other
hearing, the time for serving which is not expressly pre
scribed in either of the foregoing subdivisions of this sec
tion, or elsewhere in this title ; not less than five days.
6. Notice of taxation of costs, not less than two days ;
except where all the attorneys, serving and served with the
notice, reside or have their offices in the city of New York,
in which case, one day's notice is sufficient.
§3162. Notice of trial of an issue triable at a term of f 1241, Con
the court, or of the hearing of an appeal to the general term so1- Act
of the court, may be given for any day of the term. A
note of issue must be filed at least two days before the day,
or the commencement of the term, for which the notice of
trial or h aring is given ; and, if it relates to the trial of an
issue of fact, or of law, it must, in addition to the matters
specified in section nine hundred and seventy-seven of this
act, state the day or the term, for which the notice has been
given. But this and the last section do not apply to a case
where special provision is otherwise made in article third
of this title.
§3163. Where it satisfactorily appears that a party, (i«i«,c'nnwho is actually confined in jail, by virtue of an order of so1- Acl'
arrest, or an execution against the person, issued in an
action brought in the court, is physically unable to endure
the confinement, and that he cannot procure bail, or the
necessary sureties in a bond for the jail liberties, as the
case requires, the court, or a justice thereof, may, in its or
his discretion, by order, direct the sheriff to release him
from custody. The sheriff must oliey such an order. After
such a release from an execution against the person,
another execution, against the person of the judgment
debtor, cannot be issued upon the judgment; but the
judgment creditor may enforce the judgment against
property, as if the execution, from which the judgment
debtor was released, had been returned without his being
taken.
§ 3164. Money paid into the court, pursuant to any § ^2"\ ranprovision of this act, must, unless the court otherwise sol. Act.
directs, be paid directly to the chamberlain of the city of
New York, to the credit of the cause in which it is paid.
§3166. The summons, in an action brought in the
court, must state that the time, within which the defendant
must serve a copy of his answer, is six days after the ser
vice thereof, exclusive of the day of service ; except in one
of the following cases :
1. A justice of the court may, upon satisfactory proof,
by affidavit, that either the plaintifff or the defendant resides
without the city of New York ; or, where there are two or
more plaintifffs, or two or more defendants, that all the plain
tiffs or all the defendants reside without that city, direct, by
an order, that the defendant be summoned to answer within
a shorter time, specified therein, not less than two days after
the service of the summons, exclusive of the day of service ;
whereupon the summons must correspond to the order.
The order must be indorsed upon or annexed to the sum
mons ; and a copy thereof must be delivered with a copy of
the summons The justice may, in his discretion, as acondition of granting the order, require the plaintifff to give an
undertaking, with one or more sureties, to the effect that
the plaintifff will pay any judgment which may be rendered
against him in the action, not exceeding.a sum specified in
the undertaking, which must be at least two hundred dol
lars.
2. Where an order, directing service of the summons
without the city of New York, or by publication, is granted,
the summons must state that the time, within which the
defendant must serve a copy of his answer, is ten days after
service thereof, exclusive of the day of service. If a sum
mons, requiring the defendant to answer within a shorter
time, has been issued, as prescribed in this section, before
an order specified in this subdivision is granted, the justice
granting such an order may direct that the summons be
amended accordingly ; and thereupon the summons pub
lished, or served without that city, pursuant to the order,
must correctly state the time.
§3166. The time, within which a defendant in a case
specified in section four hundred and seventy-nine of this act must demand a copy of the complaint, and the time
within which the plaintifff must serve the same, after a de
mand thereof, as prescribed in that section, and the time,
within which a copy of a pleading, subsequent to the com
plaint, must be served, after the service of a copy of the
preceding pleading, is the same number of days, as stated
in the summons, within which the defendant is required to
serve a copy of his answer, after service of the summons.
But, except as otherwise prescribed in section three thou
sand one hundred and eighty-five of this act, a defendant,
arrested before answer, has ten days after the arrest, within
which to demand a copy of the complaint or to serve a copy
of his answer, as the case requires ; and judgment must be
stayed accordingly.
§3167. Section three thousand two hundred and twenty- 1 1263, Conone of this act applies to an action brought in the court and so1- Actto the judgment and execution against the person and prop
erty of the judgment debtor.
§ 3168. The time for taking certain proceedings, in an § lain, Conaction brought in the court, is as follows :
8o1' Acc1. Service of notice of non-acceptance of bail, within five
days after the delivery, to the plaintifff's attorney, of certified
copies of the order of arrest, return, and undertaking, as
prescribed in section five hundred and seventy-seven of this
act.
2. Service of notice of justification of the bail, within five
days after service of the notice specified in subdivision first
of this section.
3. Service of notice of exception to the sureties, in an un
dertaking given by the plaintifff, as security for the defend
ant's costs, within two days after service, upon the defend
ant's attorney, of a written notice of the filing thereof ; and
service of notiee of the justification of the same, or new
sureties, within two days after service of the notice of
exception.
§ 3169. In order to entitle the plaintifff to a warrant of
attachment against property, he must show by affidavit, to
the satisfaction of the justice granting it, that a sufficient
cause of action exists against the defendant, to recover
damages for one or more caus s specified in section six hundred and thirty-five of this act, to an amount stated in the
affidavit ; which, if the action is to recover damages for
breach of a contract, must be stated over and above all counterclaims known to the plaintifff ; and also that the case is
within one of the following subdivisions :
1. That the defendant is a foreign corporation ; or a
domestic corporation whose principal place of business is
not within the city of New York.
2. That the defendant is not a resident of the State.
3. That the defendant, being a resident of the State, is
not a resident of the city of New York ; and has not an


28 Abb. N.
c- **<•
uSirt Fi;nm liuc cirr . -where lie regularly tniTttai"jf bush** i
n_ item ii..
aifc. E
^ Tnu; the defendant, being an adult ana a Tesodscc
~tin'~ ory. hat departed therefrom, with intent xo dff^ax
iuf tavamnfc. or 10 avoid aernct of the summon* ; or keep*
an—nl* ruucaatec therein, with the like Tnian : or thai.
after prtaier and diligent effort to ascertain the place of
tat > j.'in <r su-.i a residsni adult defendant., the samt
canmi: «t ascenamer..
i. That tne Defendant, lieing an adul:. has xemnvec. if
* auom n lemow. properry from thai dry. with jnux; »
Otiraui ins cradr. jrt. or that he hat. assigned. disposed cL
«r flwztsed. or it about v nanim dispose of. or unrn*
jroper-T. -»r:i the like intei/i.
C That die aefentiaiit, b-inr an adult and a resident of
i been eantinuousrr without the Vtiited Statff
t months next before the granting of the warjiiii Ms urn made a designatian of a person npta
. -.c ie^r-re a summons in his behalf, as prescribed ia
c ibar hundred and thirty of this act ; or a designation
ac made ac longer remains in i uree.
$ 3176L An order, directing the service of a summons,
either whhmK tne cirv of New York, or by pubbcatioa,
any be gonad by the court, or by a justice thereof ; but
•air xl a raw w :--e a warrant of attachment has been
iasae-i. as ;*fscr^«ed in the last section, and personal
viae of the sunmKoi* cannot be made, with di
witiii Jtai cay. The plaintifff, when he applies for such
aa .^JkT. must sh:>w by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the
ctwn or justice, that the case is within this section. Where
aa order it r^r'.ed. as prescribed in this section, service of
the commons withont that cut may be made, as directed
ia the order, either within or without the State. Sections
four hundred and forty to four hundred and forty-five,
both inclusive, and secnc>ns six hundred and thirty -tight.
s
- ; - - i and a*«ta - n d s;'. bb auattn d Bad e|gM of
this act a; ply to the service or publication, pursuant to
soch an orJer. and to the proceedings relating to the same,
and sub*que2t thereto ; substituting the words, *' the
city of New York ", in place of the words, ** the State ",
wherever the latter words occur. If the defendant is a
resident of the citv of Xew-York, the order must also
direct that a copy of the summons, complaint, and order be
left at his residence, specifying it, with a person of suitable
a?e and discretion, if, upon reasonable application, admit
tance can be obtained, and such a person found who will
receive it : or. if admittance cannot be so obtained, nor such
a person found, by affixing the same to the outer door of
the residence so specified
i set, con£3171. The application, to the court, of article second
«o.. Act
0f tjue third of chapter ninth of this act, is subject to the
following qualifications :
1. The words, "the city and county of New-York, or
either of the counties of Richmond, Kings, Queens, or
"Westchester ", must be regarded as substituted, in place of
the words, " the State ", wherever those words are used in
that article, 'with respect to the locality of a witness.
2. Interrogatories, framed pursuant to that article, can
be settled only by a justice of the court.
3. A commission, or order to take depositions, issued or
granted, pursuant to that article, may be executed either
within or without the State.
§ 3172. The court may, of its own motion, or upon the
application of cither party, without the consent of the other,
by order, direct a reference, to determine and report upon
a question of fact, arising upon a motion, in any stage of an
action.
§ 3 1 73. The time within which the decision of the court
must be filed, in a case specified in section one thousand
and ten of this act, is ten days after the cause is finally sub
mitted. The decision of the court, in a case specified in
section one thousand and twenty-two of this act, is sufficient
if it directs the judgment to be entered thereupon ; but, if
so required by a party appealing, the justice by whom the
decision was made, must, within ten days after the appeal
is perfected, and notice thereof and of the requirement is
given to him, make, and file with the clerk, a special deci
sion, stating separately the facts found, and the conclusions
of law.
§ 3174. A counterclaim, specified in subdivision second
of section five hundred and one of this act, cannot be interposed in an action brought in the court, unless it is of such
a nature, that the court has jurisdiction of an action founded
thereupon ; except that, in an action brought by an execu
tor or administrator, any counterclaim may be interposed,
which could be interposed in a like action, brought in the
supreme court. A counterclaim may be interposed, in an
action brought in the court, without respect to the amount
thereof ; and judgment thereupon, in favor of the defend
ant, may be rendered for any sum.
§ 3 1 75. Where perishable property has been levied upon,
by virtue of an execution or a warrant of attachment, the
court may, upon the application of the officer making the
levy, by order, direct the sale thereof, at such a time, and
upon such a notice, as it deems proper ; and thereupon the
property must be sold accordingly.
§ 3176. A party to whom a sum is awarded, upon a
trial, an assessment of damages, or the execution of a reference or writ of inquiry, may remit any portion thereof, and
take judgment for the residue.
§ 3177. In an action specified in subdivision second of
section three hundred and seventeen of this act, the plaintifff
may apply for an order of arrest, to accompany the summons,
in the form and to the effect specified in the next section. If
snch an order is granted, the proceedings in the action must
be conducted as prescribed in this article. The justices of
the court, or a majority of them, may, from time to time,
by one or more general rules, attested by the hands of the
justices making the same, and filed with the clerk, regulate
the manner in which an application for such an order may
be made, and the cases in which an undertaking may be
dispensed with. Until regulations are so established, the
justice to whom the application is made, may, in his dis
cretion, requiie or dispense with an undertaking there
upon.
§ 3178. The order of arrest, granted as prescribed in
the last section, must requiie the sheriff to arrest the de
fendant, and to bring him forthwith before the court, at
the chambers thereof ; or if, when he is arrested, the court,
is not in session at chambers, to hold him to bail, in a
sum specified in the order, for his personal attendance at
the opening of the court, on the next day thereafter, when
it is in session at the chambers thereof. The order must
also direct that the defendant be summoned to answer the
complaint in the action forthwith. Thereupon the summons
must conform to the order.
§ 3179. The sheriff, upon arresting the defendant, by
virtue of such an order, must, at the same time, serve upon
him the summons, and also a copy of the order of arrest,
and of the papers upon which it was granted. He must
forthwith bring the defendant before the court, at the cham
bers thereof, if the court is then in session at chambers ;
otherwise, unless bnil is given, as prescribed in the next
section, he must take the defendant to the jail of the city
and county of New York, for the confinement of prisoners
in civil causes. The keeper thereof must confine the de
fendant therein. On the next day thereafter, when the
court is in session at chambers, the sheriff must take the
defendant from the jail, and bring him before the court.
§ S180. The defendant may give bail, by delivering to
the sheriff a 'written undertaking to the plaintifff, in the sum
specified in the order of arrest, executed by one or more
sureties, to the effect that the defendant will attend in per
son at the opening of the court, at the chambers thereof,
on the next day thereafter when it is there in session ; or he
may deposit with the sheriff the sum specified in the order
of arrest. In either case, the sheriff must forthwith release
him from custody.
§3181. Where bail is given, as prescribed in the last
section, the officer taking the acknowledgment of the
undertaking, must, if the sheriff so requires, examine
under oath, to a reasonable extent, the persons offering to
become bail, concerning their property and their circum
stances. The defendant may give bail, or make the de
posit, immediately upon his arrest, at any hour of the day
or night ; and he must have reasonable opportunity to seek
for and to procure bail, before being committed to jail.
Where a deposit is made, the money deposited must, be
fore the expiration of the next day thereafter, not being
Sunday or a public holiday, be paid by the sheriff, into
court, to the credit of the action, as prescribed in section
three thousand one hundred and sixty-four of this act.
§ 3182. At any time after the return of the sheriff, and
before final judgment, a justice of the court may admit a
defendant in custody to bail, or allow him to make a de
posit ; and may direct his release, upon his giving bail or
making the deposit accordingly. The sum to be deposited,
or the sum specified in the undertaking of the bail, must be
fixed, and the sureties in the undertaking must be approved,
by the justice ; who must be satisfied, by their examina
tion, or by other proof, respecting their sufficiency. The
undertaking must be to the effect that the defendant will,
at all times, render himself amenable to any mandate which
may be issued, to enforce a final judgment against him in
the action. Article fourth of title first of chapter seventh
of this act, applies, where bail is given as prescribed in this
or the last section.
§3183. Unless bail -is given, or a deposit is made, as
prescribed in the last three sections, the defendant must remain in the jail by virtue of the order of arrest, until final
judgment in the action ; and, if the judgment is against
the defendant, until the return of an execution against
property, issued thereupon. But the court must direct
him to be brought into court, at the time of the trial ; and
it may, in its discretion, direct him to be brought into court
at any other time. In either case, he must be taken from
the jail, and brought into court accordingly.
§ 3184. The sheriff, after serving the summons and
executing the order of arrest, must make a full return of
his proceedings thereupon, to the court at chambers. The
return must be made forthwith, unless the court is not then in session at chambers; in which case it must be
made immediately after the opening of the court, on the
first day thereafter, when it is there in session. If the de
fendant has given bail, the undertaking of the bail must be
returned, to be delivered to the plaintifff when the court so
directs.
$1269, Con§ 3285. Unless both parties sooner appear, the court
boi. Act
must wait one hour after the return ; or, if the defendant
has given bail, one hour after the opening of the court. As
soon after the parties appear, or after the expiration of the
hour, as the business upon which the courtis then engaged
will permit, the court must take up the cause. If the
plaintifff does not then appear, a judgment dismissing the
complaint, with costs, must be rendered. If the defendant
does not then a. tend in person, the plaintifff must then
make his complaint, and the defendant's default must be
entered. If the plaintifff appears and the defendant at
tends in person, the pleadings must then be made, and is
sue must be joined. The pleadings may be oral or writ
ten ; if they are oral, the clerk must enter the substance
thereof in the minutes. If either party desires a trial by a
jury, he must demand the same, at the time of the joinder
of issue ; otherwise the issue must be tried by the court,
without a jury.
$1M0, Con§ 3186. Where a trial by jury is duly demanded, the
sol. Act.
court at chambers must direct the issue to be tried, at a
trial term, upon such notice as it deems proper, or without
notice , it may also direct that the action have a preference
upon the day calendar, either generally or for a particular
day ; and it may give such direction as it deems proper, with
respect to filing a note of issue. Where a trial by jury is not
duly demanded, or where the defendant is in default, the
evidence must then, or at such subsequent time, either at
chambers or at a trial term or special term, as the court at
chambers appoints, be given ; and thereupon final judg
ment must be rendered. But the issue must be appointed
to be tried, within six days after the joinder thereof,
unless both parties assent to a longer time ; or a trial by
jury is demanded, and there is np term of the court, at
which it can be had, within that time. The trial cannot
be adjourned, without the consent of both parties, beyond
three calendar months from the joinder of issue.
% 1861, Con§ 3187. This article does not prevent the plaintifff from
boI. Act
commencing, and conducting in the ordinary manner, an
action, for a cause specified in subdivision second of sec
tion three hundred and seventeen of this act.
§3188. An appeal, to the general term of the court,
may be taken from a final judgment rendered therein, in
a case where an appeal may be taken to the general term
of the supreme court, from a final judgment rendered
therein, as prescribed in section one thousand three hundred
and forty-six of this act.
§ 3189. An appeal, to the general term of the court,
may also be taken from an interlocutory judgment renered, or an order made, at a special term or a trial term
thereof, or an order made by a justice thereof, out of
court, in a case, where an appeal may be taken to the
general term of the supreme court, from an interlocutory
judgment rendered, or an order made, in like manner, as
prescribed in sections one thousand three hundred and fortyseven, one thousand three hundred and forty-eight, and
one thousand three hundred and forty-nine of this act.
§ 3190. An appeal, authorized by the last section, must
be taken within ten days after sarvice of a copy of the
judgment or order appealed from, and a written notice of
the entry thereof. In every other respect, titles first and
fourth of chapter twelfth of this act, apply to and govern an
appeal, taken as prescribed in either of the last two sections.
§ 3191. [Am'd 1882.] An appeal maybe taken to the
court of common pleas for the city and county of New
York, from an actual determination, made by the marine
court of the city of New York, at a general term thereof,
in either of the following cases :
1 . Where a final judgment has been rendered, upon an
appeal taken to the general term.
2. Where an order has been made, granting a new trial.
But an appeal cannot be taken, from an order granting a
new trial, upon a case or exceptions, unless the notice of
appeal contains an assent, on the part of the appellant,
that if the order is affirmed, judgment absolute may be
rendered against the appellant.
3. Where an order has been made which grants, refuses,
continues, or modifies a provisional remedy ; or, where it
involves some part of the merits, or where it affects asubstantial right, or where, in effect, it determines the action and
prevents a judgment from which an appeal might be taken.
f 31?2; ™» ** and t^rd of chapter tltlftMb
act apply to and govern an appeal, taken as prescribed in
the last section, except as otherwise expressly prescribed in
the nest two sections.
wfLx* m§?,L9?-tAn *1pea1' authori*>d by the last section,
must be taken within twenty days after service of a copy
of the judgment or order appealed from, and a written
notice of the entry thereof. The appeal most be heard at
a general term of the appellate court.
L'fit "*
§j*i?4- The judgment or order of the appellate court
M
must be remitted to the court below, to be enforced ac
cording to law. Upon an appeal from an order granting
a new trial, on a case or exceptions, if the appellate court
determines that no error was committed in granting the
new trial, it must render judgment absolute upon the right
of the appellant; and thereupon an assessment of
damages, or any other proceeding, requisite to render the
judgment effectual, may be had in the marine court.
UrLF™*
§.31?5.
Uponand
an undertaking
appeal to themust
court
appeals,
• »=■
notice
of appeal
be offiled
with the
the
clerk of the marine court, who must transmit the necessary
papers to the court of appeals ; and the judgment or order
of the court of appeals must be remitted to and enforced
by the marine court.
§ 3196. The civil jurisdiction of the mayor's court of
the city of Hudson, the recorder's court of the city of
Utica, and the recorder's court of the city of Oswego, ex
tends only to an action whereof jurisdiction is expressly
conferred upon the court, by a provision of a statute incor
porating, or otherwise specially relating to the government
of, the city wherein the court is located.
§3197. Every civil action, now pending in either of
those courts, other than au action specified in the last sec
tion, is hereby transferred lo the supreme court ; and the
subsequent proceedings therein, before and after the judg
ment, must be the same, as if the action had been com
menced in the supreme court.
§ 3198. All judgment-rolls, and other records, and all
books and papers, relating exclusively to civil actions, other
than an action specified in the last section but one, now re
maining in either of those courts, must be delivered by the clerk thereof, or, if there is no clerk, by the judge or other
officer, having the custody thereof, to the clerk of the
county in which the court is located, to be preserved among
the records of his office. The expense of so doing is a
county charge.
§ 3199. The supreme court may review, enforce,
vacate, or amend a final judgment heretofore rendered by
either of those court, in a civil action, other than an
action specified in section three thousand one hundred
and ninety-six of this act, with like power and effect,
as the court in which it was commenced might have so
done, if this act had not been passed.
§ 3200. The county court of the county in which either
of those courts is located, may, by an order, remove to
itself an action of which either of those courts has juris
diction, as prescribed in section three thousand one hun
dred and ninety-six of this act, upon proof, by affidavit,
that the judge thereof is, for any cause, incapable of act
ing, either generally or in the particular action. Sections
three hundred and forty-four, three hundred and forty-five
and three hundred and forty-six of this act apply to such
an order of removal, and to the proceedings subsequent
thereto. The proceedings subsequent to the order are the
same, as in an action brought in the county court, except
that costs must be awarded, as if the action had re
mained in the court from which it was removed.
§ 3201. A subpoena, issued out of either of those courts,
may be served upon a witness, at any place within the
State. A warrant to apprehend a witness, for a failure to
obey such a subpoena, may be directed to the sheriff of the
county where the court is located, and executed by him
within any county of the State. The sheriff is subject to the
same liability, for a failure to serve or return it, as if it was
issued out of the supreme court.
§ 3202. This title does not affect any provision of law
conferring upon a judge, or upon the judges, of either of
those courts, jurisdiction, power or authority, in an action
brought in another court, or in a special proceeding.
§ 3203. The jurisdiction of the city court of Yonkers
extends to the following civil actions only :
1. An action against a natural person, or against a
foreign or domestic corporation, wherein the complaint
demands judgment for a sum of money only, or to recover
one or more chattels, with or without damages for the
taking, withholding, or detention thereof.
2. An action to foreclose or enforce a lien, upon real
property in the city of Yonkers, created, as prescribed by
statute, in favor of a person who has performed labor, or
furnished materials to be used, in erecting, altering, or
repairing a building, building lot, or appurtenance thereto,
including fences, sidewalks, paving, wells, fountains, fishpouds, ornamental and fruit tiees, and every other improve
ment to a building or building lot.
3. An action to foreclose or enforce a lien, for a sum not
exceeding one thousand dollars, exclusive of interest, upon
one or more chattels.
§ 3204. [Am'd 1888.] The jurisdiction conferred by the
last section is subject to the following limitations and
regulations :
1. In an action wherein the complaint demands judgment
for a sum of money only, the sum for which judgment is
rendered in favor of the plaintifff cannot exceed one thou
sand dollars ; exclusive of interest and costs as taxed ;
except where it is brought upon a bond or undertaking
given in an action or special proceeding in the same court,
or before the city judge. Where the action is brought
upon a bond or other contract, the judgment must be for
the sum actually due, without regard to a penalty therein
contained ; and where the money is payable in installments,
successive actions may be brought for the installments as
they become due.
2. In an action to recover one or more chattels, a judg
ment cannot be rendered in favor of the plaintifff for a
chattel or chattels, the agregate value of which exceeds one
thousand dollars.
8. The court has not jurisdiction of an action against
an executor or administrator in his representative capacity.
4. The court has not jurisdiction of any action, unless
one of the parties thereto resides in the city of Yonkers,
or in a town of Westchester County, adjoining that city ;
or a warrant of attachment is granted to accompany the
summons, and levied upon property of the defendant
within that city ; or the action is brought to recover one or
more statutory penalties by the city of Yonkers, or one of
its officers or boards of commissioners. Such warrant of
attachment must be granted and subsequent proceedings
taken in accordance with the provisions and requirements
herein relating to attachments in courts of justices of the
peace.
§ 3205. The summons, in an action brought in the
court, may be served at any place within the county of
Westchester, but not elsewhere.
g 3206. This title does not affect any provision of law,
conferring upon the court, or upon the city judge of
Yonkers, jurisdiction, power, or authority, m a special
proceeding ; or conferring upon the city judge of Yonkers
power or authority, in an action brought in another court
§ 3207. Section three thousand one hundred and twentysix of this act applies to an action to recover upon or for
breach of a contract, express or implied, brought in a dis
trict court of the city of New York, in the justices' court of
the city of Albany, or in the justices' court of the city of
Troy.
§ 3208. In an action brought in either of those courts, the
summons, and, in a proper case, a copy of the complaint,
may be served by any person not a party to the action ; ex
cept that, where the action is brought in a district court of
the city of New York, a person, other than a constable or
a marshal, serving the same, must be first empowered to
do so, either by the justice, or by the attorney to the corpora
tion, as now prescribed by law. Proof of service thereof,
by such a person, must be made by his affidavit ; which
must state the particular place, time, and manner of service,
and that the affiant knew the person so served, to be the
person mentioned and described in the summons, as defend
ant therein.
§ 3209. An action, brought in either of those courts, at
any time after this chapter takes effect, must be commenced
by the voluntary appearance of, and joinder of issue by, the
parlies, or by the service of a summons.
8 3210. [Am'd 1884.] Articles third, fourth and fifth of
title second of chapter nineteen of this act apply to an ac
tion brought in either of those courts, except as otherwise
prescribed in the next section. And except, also, that where
the warrant of attachment, or requisition to replevy, is
issued out of a district court of the city of New York,
against a non-resident defendant, the said warrant, or req
uisition, must require the marshal to attach or replevy the
property, on or before a day therein specified, which must
* Name changed to " city court of Albany," by be not less than two nor more than four days before the re
turn day of the summons.
§ 321 1. The provisions of the last section are subject to
the following qualifications :
1. Nothing contained in either of the articles, so made
applicable, applies to an order of arrest, in an action brought
in a district court of the city of New York, or affects any
provision of this title, relating to the jurisdiction of either
of the courts specified in this title.
2. An order of arrest, In an action brought in the justice's
court of Albany, or the justice's court of Troy, or a war
rant of attachment, or a requisition to replevy, in either of
those courts, or in a district court of the city of New York,
must be granted by. and directed to, and executed b}7, the
officer empowered, by the statutes remaining in force after
this chapter takes effect, to grant or execute, as the case re
quires, in the same court, a warrant to arrest, a warrant of
attachment, or a requisition in an action to recover a chat
tel.
3. The manner of applying for, granting, and executing
an order of arrest, a warrant of attachment, or a requisi
tion to replevy, and the proceedings thereupon, and with
respect thereto, as prescribed in the articles so made appli
cable, are subject to the statutes, remaining unrepealed af
ter this chapter takes effect, specially applicable to those
courts, or to either or any of them, prescribing the duties
of the justices, or of the clerks thereof, or regulating the
mode of transacting business in an action brought therein.
§ 3212. Sections two thousand nine hundred and fiftyone to two thousand nine hundred and fifty-eight of this
act, both inclusive, apply to an action, brought in either of
those courts ; except that, where the action is brought in a
district court of the city of New York, the surety upon the
defendant's undertaking is liable, in the case specified in
section two thousand nine hundred and fifty-two, to any
amount, for which judgment might have been rendered by
the district court, if the answer and undertaking had not
been delivered.
§3213. [Am'd 1883.] An appeal from a judgment ren
dered in a district court of the city of New York may be
taken to the court of common pleas for the city and county
of New York in the cases and in the manner prescribed in
articles first and second of title eight of chapter nineteenth
of this act. The appellate court may reverse, affirm or
modify the judgment appealed from, and where a judg
ment is reversed, may order a new trial in the district
court. Where a judgment is modified, or where a new
trial is ordered, costs shall be in the discretion of the appel
late court. An appeal from the judgment rendered in the
justice's court of the city of Albany, or the justice's court
of the city of Troy, may be taken in a case where an ap
peal may be taken to a county court from a judgment rendered by a justice of the peace as prescribed by title eight
of that chapter, and in no other case. Such an appeal must
be taken to the county court of the county wherein the
court is located.
§ 32 1 4. Except as otherwise specially prescribed in this
title, this act does not affect any statutory provision re
maining unrepealed after this chapter takes effect, relating
to the jurisdiction and powers of either of those courts ;
the appointment, qualification, tenure of office, powers, or
duties of the justices, or of the clerk, or any other officer
thereof ; or the proceedings therein ; except that a pro
vision of this or any other statute, whereby a proceeding in
an action, brought in either of those courts, or a special
proceeding, brought therein, or before a justice thereof, is
assimilated, either expressly, or by refeience to another
provision of law, to a proceeding, in an action or a special
proceeding before a justice of the peace, is deemed to refer
to the corresponding proceeding, as prescribed in chapter
nineteenth of this act.
§3215. Each district court of the city of New-York
has jurisdiction of the following civil actions :
1. An action, of which a justice of the peace has jurisdic
tion, as prescribed in sections one thousand seven hundred
and thirty-seven, two thousand eight hundred and sixty one,
$ 1279, Consol. Act, as
amended by
L. 1884, c.
286
Id. § 1280, as
amended by
* For convenience, the following references to provisions of the L. 1884, c.
Consolidation Act bearing upon practice in the district courts of the
City of New Vork, are here re-inserted :
W. § 1285,
Actions ; where to be brought, §
Justices ; qualifications and elec 1286,
1290.
1289-1292.
tion, «§ 1281-1283.
Appeals, § 1438.
Marshals. § 1699-1711.
Attendants, fuel, stationery, etc.,
Marshal's fees. § 1710.
Nonsuit, § 1382.
§ 1430-14%.
Pleadings and incidents of trial,
Clerks ; duties and salary, §5 14271431.
§ 1345-1356.
Provisional remedies, jj§ 1302-1330.
Executions, § 139M409.
Replevin, § 1331-134-1
Fees and costs, § 1 116-1425.
Stenographer, § 1434.
Guardians ; appointment of, §
Summary proceedings, § 18571296.
Interpreter, § 1433.
1365.
Judgments, JS 13*2-1886.
Summons, § 1297-1301.
Service of process, etc., g 1709.
Jurisdiction, § 1284-1288.
Jury ; selection of trial jurors, §
Transcript of judgments, § 13921684.
1398.
Jury trial and mode of drawing
Transcript of stenographer's min
utes, § 1439-1440.
Jury, SS 1871-1381.
two thousand eight hundred and sixty-two, two thousand
eight hundred and sixty-three of this act, including an
action against a domestic corporation, or against a foreign
corporation having an office in the city of New-York,
where the sum claimed, or the value of the chattel, or of
all the chattels claimed, as stated in the complaint, does not
exceed two hundred and fifty dollars ; except that sub
division third of section two thousand eight hundred and
sixty-two, and subdivisions first and fourth of section two
thousand eight hundred and sixty-three of this act do not
apply to an action brought in either of those courts.
Daly, 64.
2. An action to recover a penalty, given by the charter
of the city of New York, or any by-law or ordinance of
the common council of that city, or to recover a penalty
given by a statute of the State ; where all the penalties, to
recover which the action is brought, do not exceed two
hundred and fifty dollars.
8. An action in behalf of the people of the State, brought
by the direction of the commissioners of public charities
and correction of the city of New York, or of an overseer
of the poor, upon a bastardy or abandonment bond, in a
case where it is prescribed, by a special statutory provision,
that such an action can be maintained in a district court
$ 1284, Con4. An action upon the bond of a marshal of that city, in
8oi. Act
a case where it is prescribed, by a special statutory provi
sion, that such an action can be maintained in a district
court.
Neither of those courts has jurisdiction of any civil
action, except, as prescribed in this section,
$ 1287, Con§ 3216. In an action, specified in subdivision first or
sol. Act
second of the last section, where the damages claimed, or
the value of the chattel, or of all the chattels claimed, as
stated in the complaint, exceeds one hundred dollars, the
defendant may, after issue is joined, and before an adjourn
ment has been granted upon his application, apply to the
justice of the court in which the action is brought, for an
order removing the action into the court of common pleas
for the city and county of New York. Such an order
must be granted, upon the defendant's filing with the clerk
an undertaking, in a sum fixed by the justice, not exceed
ing twice the amount of the damages claimed, or twice the
value of the chattel, or of all the chattels claimed, as stated
in the complaint, with one or more sureties, to the effect,
that the defendant will pay to the plaintifff the amount of
any judgment, that may be recovered against him in the
court of common pleas, in the action so removed. From
the time of the granting of the order, the court of common
pleas has cognizance of the action ; and the clerk of the
district court must forthwith deliver to the clerk of the court
of common pleas, all process, pleadings, and other papers in
the action, and certified copies of all minutes, entries, and
orders relating thereto ; which must be filed, entered, or
recorded, as the case requires, in the latter's office.
§ 3217. An order to arrest the defendant must or may i§l808-18ir>,
be granted, in an action brought in either of those courts, Coneol.Act.
in any case where a warrant of arrest must or may be issued
in such an action, as prescribed in the statutes remaining
unrepealed after this chapter takes effect. Such a warrant
shall not hereaf ter be issued.
§3218. An order of arrest must direct tliat the sum
mons accompanying it be made returnable, immediately
upon the arrest of the defendant ; and it must specify a
sum, in which the defendant may be let to bail. Sections
three thousand one hundred and seventy-nine to three
thousand one hundred and eighty-one, both inclusive, sec
tion three thousand one hundred and eighty-two, except
the last sentence thereof, and section three thousand one
hundred and eighty-three of this act, apply to an order of
arrest, granted in an action in either of those courts ; and
to the proceedings upon, and relating to, the execution
thereof. In all other respects, the statutory provisions re
maining unrepealed after this chapter takes effect, which
apply to and regulate the application for a warrant to ar
rest a defendant, the granting and execution thereof, and
the proceedings subsequent thereto, apply to and regulate
the application for an order of arrest, the granting and exe
cution thereof, and the proceedings subsequent thereto.
§ 3219. The sum specified in an undertaking, given to i 1819, Conprocure a warrant of attachment, must be at least twice the sol. Act.
amount of the plaintifff's demand, as stated in the warrant.
Where such an undertaking, or an undertaking given to
procure an order of arrest, is executed by the plaintifff with
out any surety, the plaintifff must state, in the affidavit of
justification annexed to the undertaking, in addition to the
other matters required by law, that he is a resident of, and
a householder within, the city of New York, specifying the
street and the number, or other sufficient identification, of
the building where he resides.
§ 3220. Sections three thousand and seventeen to three 84 N. T.
thousand and twenty-two of this act, both inclusive, apply State Rep.
40.
to a judgment rendered in either of those courts, and to the
proceedings subsequent thereto, and in the action wherein
it was rendered ; except that the transcript, filed in the
office of the county clerk, must be furnished by the clerk
of the district court ; that a judgment, the transcript of
which has been so filed, is deemed to be a judgment of the
court of common pleas for the city and county of New
York ; and that an execution, upon a judgment so docketed,
may be issued, at the option of the judgment creditor,
either by the county clerk, directed to the sheriff, or by the
clerk of the district court, directed to a marshal. In the
latter case, it must be in the same form, and executed in
the same manner, as if the judgment was not so docketed.
§ 3221. In an action, brought in either of those courts,
by a female, to recover for services performed by her, if the plaintifff recovers a judgment for a sum not exce eding
fifty dollars, exclusive of costs, no property of the defend
ant is exempt fr-^m levy and sale, by virtue of an execution
against property, issued thereupon; and, if such an execu
tion is returned, wholly or partly unsatisfied, the clerk must,
upon the application of the plaintifff, issue an execution
against the person of the defendant, for the sum remain
ing uncollected. A defendant, arrested by virtue of an
execution so issued against his person, must be actually
confined in the jail, and is not entitled to the liberties
thereof ; but he must be discharged, after having been so
confined fifteen days. After his discharge, an execution
against his person cannot be issued upon the judgment,
but the judgment creditor may enforce the judgment against
property, as if the execution, from which the judgment
debtor is discharged, had been returned without his being
taken.
$ 1421. Con§ 3222. Section three thousand one hundred and thirtynol. Act.
one 0f th{s act applies to an action therein specified,
brought in a district court of the city of New York ; and
costs must be allowed in such an action, as prescribed in
that section, in addition .to the costs allowed in a district
court, by the statutory provisions remaining in force after
this chapter takes effect.
§ 3223. The justices' court of the city of Albany, and
1"
the justices' court of the city of Troy, have jurisdiction,
each within the city where the court is located, of an action,
of which a justice of the peace has jurisdiction, as prescribed
in sections one thousand seven hundred and thirty seven,
two thousand eight hundred and sixty-one, two thousand
eight hundred and sixty-two, and two thousand eight hun
dred and sixty-three of this act ; and also of an action to
recover a penalty, given by the charter, or a by-law or an
ordinance of the common council of that city, where the
1 plaintifff demands judgment for a sum, not exceeding two
hundred dollars. Neither of those courts has jurisdiction
of any other civil action ; but this section does not affect
the jurisdiction conferred, by the statutory provisions re
maining in force after this chapter takes effect, upon either
of those courts, in a special proceeding.
§ 3224. The jurisdiction of each of those courts extends
also to the taking and entry of a judgment, upon the con
fession of a defendant, as prescribed in title sixth of
chapter nineteenth of this act, where the sum confessed
does not exceed five hundred dollars.
§ 3285. The provisions of sections three thousand and
seventeen to three thousand and twenty-two of this act,
both inclusive, apply to a judgment rendered in either of
those courts, and to the proceedings subsequent thereto,
and in the action wherein the judgment was rendered ; ex
cept that the transcript, filed in the clerk's office of Ihe
county wherein the court is located, must be furnished by
the clerk of the court, in which the judgment was rendeied,
§ 3226. The provisions of chapter nineteenth of this
act, excluding titles tenth and eleventh thereof, apply to the
municipal court of the city of Rochester, and to the judges
thereof ; except so far as they are inconsistent with the
next section, or with any other special provision of statute,
remaining unrepealed after this chapter takes effect. For
the purpose of applying the same, the court is deemed a
justice's court ; each judge thereof is deemed a justice of
the peace ; and the city of Rochester is deemed a town of
Monroe county.
§ 3227. [Am'd 1881.] The municipal courtof the city of
Rochester has jurisdiction of an action to recover damages
upon or for a breach of contract, express or implied, other
than a promise to marry, when the sum claimed does not
exceed five hundred dollars.
1. An action, triable by a jury, to recover real property,
or an interest in real property ; or in which a claim of title
to real property arises upon the pleadings, or is certified to
have come in question upon the trial.
2. An action to recover a chattel. But if the value of the
chattel, or of all the chattels, recovered by the plaintifff, as
fixed, together with the damages, if any, awarded to him,
is less than fifty dollars, the amount of his costs cannot ex
ceed the amount of the value and the damages.
8. An action specified in subdivision first, third, fourth,
or fifth of section two thousand eight hundred and sixtythree of this act. But if, in an action to recover damages
for an assault, battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander,
criminal conversation, seduction, or malicious prosecution,
the plaintifff recovers less than fifty dollars damages, the
amount of his costs cannot exceed the damages.
4. An action, other than one of those specified in the
foregoing subdivisions of this section, in which the com
plaint demands judgment for a sum of money only. But
the plaintifff is not entitled to costs, under this subdivision,
unless he recovers the sum of fifty dollars or more.
§ 3229. The defendant is entitled to costs, of course,
upon the rendering of final judgment, in an action specified
in the last section, unless the plaintifff is entitled to costs,
as therein prescribed. But where, in such an action against
two or more defendants, the plaintifff is entitled to costs
against one or more, but not against all of them, none of
the defendants are entitled to costs, of course. In that
case, costs may be awarded, in the discretion of the court,
to any defendant, against whom the plaintifff is not entitled
to costs, where he did not unite in an answer, and was not
united in interest, with a defendant, against whom the
p'.uintiff is entitled to costs.
§ 3230. Except as prescribed in the last two sections,
the court may, in its discretion, award costs to any party,
upon the rendering of a final judgment.
20 Week. Dig. 377 ; 103 jS. Y. 874 j 3 How. Pr. K. S. 184.
§ 3231. Where two or more actions are brought, in a
case specified in section four hundred and fifty-four of this
act, or otherwise for the same cause of action, against persons who might have been joined as defendants in one action, costs, other than disbursements, cannot be recovered,
upon the final judgment, by the plaintifff, in more than one
action, which shall be at his election. But this prohibition
does not apply to a case where the plaintifff joins as defend
ants, in each action brought, all the persons liable, not
previously sued, who can, with reasonable diligence, be
found within the State ; or, if the action is brought in a
superior city court, or the marine court of the city of New
York, or a county court, within the city or county, as the
case may be, where the court is located.
§ 3232. Where an issue of law and an issue of fact are
joined, between the same parties to the same action, and the
issue of fact remains undisposed of, when an interlocutory
judgment is rendered upon the issue of law ; the inter
locutory judgment may, in the discretion of the court, deny
costs to either party, or award costs to the prevailing party,
either absolutely, or to abide the event or the trial of the
issue of fact.
§ 3233. Section seven hundred and seventy-nine of this
act applies to interlocutory costs, awarded as prescribed in
the last section, as if they were costs of a motion.
§ 3234. In amaction specified in section three thousand
two hundred and twenty- eight of this act, wherein the
complaint sets forth separately two or more causes of action, upon which issues of fact are joined, if the plaintifff
recovers upon one or more of the issues, and the defendant
upon the other or others, each party is entitled to costs
against the adverse party, unless it is certified that the substantial cause of action was the same upon each issue ; in
which case, the plaintifff only is entitled to costs. Costs, to
which a party is so entitled, must be included in the final
judgment, by adding them to, or offsetting them against,
the sum awarded to the prevailing party ; or otherwise,
as the case requires. But this section does not entitle a
plaintifff to costs, in a case specified in subdivision fourth
of section three thousand two hundred and twenty eight of
this act, where he is not entitled to costs, as prescribed in
that subdivision.
§ 3235. Where an action, brought before a justice of
the peace, or in a district court of the city of Mew York,
or a justices' court of a city, has been discontinued, as
prescribed by law, upon the delivery of an answer, show
ing that title to real property will come in question ; and a new action, for the same cause, has been commenced
in the proper court ; the party, in whose favor final judg
ment is rendered in the new action, is entitled to costs;
except that, where final judgment U rendered therein, in
favor of the defendant, upon trial of an issue of fact tbe
plaintifff is entitled to costs, unless it is certified, that the
title to real property came in question on the trial.
§ 3236. Cost*, upon a motion in an action, where the
costs thereof are not specially regulated in this act, or upon
a reference made pursuant to sections six hundred and
twenty-three, six hundred and twenty-four, eight hundred
and twenty-seven, or one thousand and fifteen of this act,
may be awarded, either absolutely or to abide the event of
the action, or of the reference, to any party in the discre
tion of the court or judge.
§ 3237. The foregoing sections of this article do not
affect the recovery of costs upon an appeal.
§ 3238. Upon an appeal from the final judgment in an
action, the recovery of costs is regulated as follows :
1 . In an action specified in section three thousand two
hundred and twenty-eight of this act, the respondent is
entitled to costs upon the affirmance, and the appellant
upon the reversal, of the judgment appealed from ; except
that, where a new trial is directed, costs may be awarded to
either party, absolutely or to abide the event, in the discre
tion of the court.
2. In every other action, and also where the final judg
ment appealed from is affirmed in part, and reversed in
part, costs may be awarded in like manner, in the discretion
of the court.
§ 3239. Upon an appeal from an interlocutory judgment or an order, in an action, costs are in the discretion of
the court, and may be awarded absolutely, or to abide the
event, except as follows :
1. Where the appeal is taken from an order, granting or
refusing a new trial, and tlie decision upon the appeal re
fuses a new trial, the respondent is entitled, of course, to
the costs of the appeal.
?. Where an appeal is taken from an order, refusing a
new trial, and an appeal is also taken from the judgment
rendered upon the trial, neither party is entitled to the costs
of the appeal from the order.
§3240. [Am'd 1881. J Costs in a special proceeding, instituted in a court of record, or upon an appeal in a special
proceeding, taken to a court of record, where the costs
thereof are not specially regulated in this act, may h;j
awarded to any party, in the discretion of the court, at the
ra*es allowed for similar services, in an action brought in the
aame court, or an appeal from a judgment taken to the
same court, and in like manner,
103 N.Y. 874 ; 46 Hun, 534.
§ 3241. Where costs are awarded against the people of
the State, in an action or a special proceeding brought, by
a public officer, pursuant to any provision of law, and the
proceedings have not been stayed, by appeal or otherwise ;
the comptroller must draw his warrant upon the treasurer,
for the payment of the costs, out of any money in the
treasury, appropriated for that purpose, upon the produc.'
tion to him of an exemplified copy of the judgment, or
order awarding the costs, and, where the amount is not
fixed thereby, of a taxed bill of costs ; accompanied, in
<
either case, with a certificate of the Attorney-General, to
the effect that the action or special proceeding was brought
pursuant to law. The fees of the clerk, for the exempli
fied copy, must be certified thereupon by him, and included
in the warrant.
,
§ 3242. Where an action is brought, in the name of the
>
people of the State, upon the relation of a private corpora
tion or individual, as prescribed in section one thousand
nine hundred and eighty-six of this act, a judgment,
awarding costs to the defendant, must award them, against
the relator, in the first instance ; and against the people,
only in case an execution, issued thereupon against the
property of the relator, is returned unsatisfied.
§ 3243. In an action or a special proceeding, brought in ngN.T.llj
the name of the people of the State, to recover money or
property, or to establish a right or claim, for the benefit of
a county, city, town, or village, costs shall not be awarded
against the people ; but, where they are awarded to the
defendant, they must be awarded against a body for whose
benefit the action or special proceeding was brought.
§ 3244. Costs cannot be awarded to the plaintifff, in an
action against a school officer, or a supervisor, on account of
an act performed by him, by virtue of, or under color
of his office ; or on account of a refusal or an omission to
perform a duty enjoined upon him by law ; where his act,
refusal, or omission might have been the subject of an ap
peal to the State superintendent of pdblic instruction, and
where it is certified that it appeared, upon the trial, that
fhe defendant acted in good faith. But this section does
not apply to an action for a penalty ; or to an action or a
special proceeding, to enforce a decision of the superin
tendent.
§ 3246. In an action, brought by or against an executor
or administrator, in his representative capacity, or the
trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized
by statute to sue or to be sued, costs must be awarded, as
in an action by or against a person, prosecuting or defend
ing in his own right, except as otherwise prescribed in
sections one thousand eight hundred and thirty-rive and
one thousand eight hundred and thirty-six of this act ;
but they are exclusively chargeable upon, and collectible
from the estate, fund, or person represented, unless the
court directs them to be paid, by the party personally, for
mismanagement or bad faith in the prosecution or defense
of the action.
§ 3247. Where an action is brought, in the name of
another, by a transferee of the cause of action, or by any
other person, who is beneficially interested therein ; or
where, after the commencement of an action, the cause of
action becomes, by transfer or otherwise, the property of a
person, not a party to the action ; the transferee, or other
person so interested, is liable for costs, in the like cases,
and to the same extent, as if he was the plaintifff ; and,
where costs are awarded against the plaintifff, the court
may, by order, direct the person so liable to pay them.
Except in a case, where he could not have been lawfully
directed to pay costs, personally, if he had been a party,
as prescribed in the last section, his disobedience to the
order is a contempt of court. But this section does not
apply to a case, where the person so beneficially interested,
is the attorney or counsel for the plaintifff, if his only bene
ficial interest consists of a right to a portion of the sum or
property recovered, as compensation for his services in the
action.
§ 3248. AVhcre, i*pon the trial of an action, the title to
real property comes in question, or any fact appears,
whereby either party becomes entitled to costs, or to the
increased costs specified in section three thousand two hun
dred and fifty-eight of this act, the judge presiding at the
trial, or the referee, must, upon the application of the party to be benefited thereby, either before or after the verdict,
report, or decision is rendered, make a certificate, stating
the fact. Such a certificate is the only competent evidence,
as to the matter, before the taxing officer.
§ 3249. Where costs are awarded against an infant
plaintifff, they may be collected, by execution or otherwise,
from his guardian ad litem, in like maunner as if the latter
was the plaintifff.
§ 3250. This title does not affect any provision con
tained elsewhere in this act, or in any other statute, remain
ing unrepealed after this chapter takes effect ; whereby the
award of costs is specially regulated, in a particular case,
otherwise than as prescribed in this title.
§ 3251. Costs, awarded to a party to an action, mustTie
at the following rates :
1. To the plaintifff :
For all proceedings, before notice of trial, in an action
specified in section four hundred and twenty of this act,
fifteen dollars ; in every other action, twenty-five dollars.
For each additional defendant served with the summons,
not exceeding ten, two dollars ; and for each necessary
defendant, in excess of that number, served with the sumj 1,
mons, one dollar.
For procuring the appointment of a guardian or guardians ad litem, for one or more infant defendants, ten
dollars.
For procuring an injunction order ; or, in the marine
court of the city of New York, an order of arrest ; ten
dollars.
2. To the defendant :
For all proceedings, before notice of trial, except as
otherwise prescribed in this article, ten dollars.
prescribed in section eight hundred and seventy, section
eight hundred and seventy-one, or section eight hundred
and ninety-three of this act, ten dollars.
For drawing interrogatories, to be annexed to a commis
sion, or to letters rogatory, issued as prescribed in sections
eight hundred and eighty-eight, nine hundred and twelve,
nine hundred and thirteen, and three thousand one hun
dred and seventy-one of this act, ten dollars.
For the trial of an issue of law, twenty dollars.
For the trial of an issue of fact, thirty dollars ; and,
where the trial necessarily occupies more than two days, ten
dollars in addition thereto.
For making and serving a case, twenty dollars ; and,
where the case necessarily contains more than fifty folios,
ten dollars in addition thereto.
For making and serving amendments to a case, ten dol
lars.
Upon a motion for a now trial, upon a case, or an appli
cation for judgment upon a special verdict, the same sums
as upon an appeal, as prescribed in subdivision fourth of
this section.
Upon any oilier motion, or upon a reference specified in
section three thousand two hundred and thirty-six of this
act, to each party to whom costs are awarded, a sum fixed
by the court or judge, not exceeding ten dollars besides
necessary disbursements for printing and referee's fees.
Where a new trial is had, pursuant to an order granting
the same, for all proceedings after the granting of, and be
fore the new trial, twenty-five dollars.
For one term of the marine court of the city of New
York, at which the cause is necessarily on the' calendar,
and for each term of the circuit court, or trial term, or
special term, of the supreme court, a superior city court, or
a county court, not exceeding five, at which the cause is
necessarily on the calendar, excluding the term at which it
is tried, or otherwise finally disposed of ; ten dollars.
% 1876, Con4. To either party, upon an appeal to the supreme court,
sol. Act.
from an inferior court ; or upon an appeal to the general
wniow. Pr. term 0f the supreme court, or of a superior city court, or
3i Hnn,426. of the marine court of the city of New York, taken from
54 N. Y.
an interlocutory or final judgment, or from an order grant^ra&8 1 550 m& or refusing a new trial, rendered or made in the same
47 Huii, 455] court, or in a circuit court; or upon an appeal to the
si n. Y.
court of common pleas for the city and county of New
State ^Hi' York, from the marine court of that city ; or upon an appli
cation to a general term for a new trial, or for judgment
upon a verdict, rendered subject to the opinion of the
court, or where exceptions are ordered to be heard, in the first instance, at the general term :
Before argument, twenty dollars.
For argument, forty dollars.
For one general term of the marine court of the city of
New York, at which the cause is necessarily on the calen
dar ; and for each general term, not exceeding five, of the
supreme court, or of a superior city court, at which the
cause is necessarily on the calendar, excluding the term at
which it is argued, or otherwise finally disposed of ; ten
dollars.
5. To either party, upon an appeal to the Court of apBefore argument, thirty dollars.
For argument, sixty dollars.
For each term, not exceeding ten, at which the cause is
on the calendar, excluding the term at which it is argued,
or otherwise finally disposed of, ten dollars.
Where a judgment is affirmed by the Court of appeals, the
court may, in its discretion, also award damages, by way of
costs, for the delay, not exceeding ten per centum upon the
amount of the judgment ; or, where it was rendered upon
an appeal, upon the amount of the original judgment.
§ 325S. Where the action is brought to foreclose a *Month. L.
mortgage upon real property ; or for the partition of real
property ; or to procure an adjudication upon a will or other
instrument in writing ; or to compel the determination of a
claim to real property ; or where, in any action, a warrant
of attachment.against property has been issued ; the plain
tiff, if a final judgment is rendsred in his favor, and he re
covers costs, is entitled to recover, in addition to the costs
prescribed in the last section, the following percentages, to
be estimated upon the amount found to be due upon the
mortgage ; or the value of the property partitioned, affected
by the adjudication upon the will or other instrument, or
the claim to which is determined ; or the value of the prop
erty attached, not exceeding the sum recovered, or claimed ;
as the case may be :
Upon a sum, not exceeding two hundred dollars, ten per
centum.
Upon an additional sum, not exceeding four hundred
dollars, five per centum.
Upon an additional sum, not exceeding one thousand
dollars, two per centum.
Where such an action is settled before judgment, the
plaintifff is entitled to a percentage upon the amount paid or
secured upon the settlement, at one half of those rates. In
an action to foreclose a mortgage upon real property, where
a part of the mortgage debt is not due, if the final judgment
directs the sale of the whole property, as prescribed in sec
tion one thousand six hundred and thirty-seven of this act,
the percentages, specified in this section, must be computed
upon the whole sum, unpaid upon the mortgage. But if it
directs the sale of a part only, as prescribed in section one 
thousand six hundred and thirty -six of this act, they must
be computed upon the sum actually due ; and if the court
thereafter grants an order, directing the sale of the remain
der, or a part thereof, the percentages must be computed
upon the amount then due : but the aggregate of the per
centages shall not exceed the sum, which would have been
allowed, if the entire sum secured by the mortgage had been
due, when final judgment was rendered.
§ 3253. In an action, brought to foreclose a mortgage
upon real property ; or for the partition of real property ;
or in a difficult and extraordinary case, where a defense
has been interposed, in any action ; the court may also, in
its discretion, award to any party a further sum, as follows :
1. In an action to foreclose a mortgage.a sum not exceeding
two and one-half per centum upon the sum due or claimed
to be due upon the mortgage, nor the aggregate sum of two
hundred dollars case, specified in this section, a sum not
exceeding five per centum upon the sum recovered, or
claimed, or the value of the subject-matter involved.
§ 3254. But all the sums awarded to the plaintifff, as
prescribed in section three thousand two hundred and fiftytwo of this act, or to a party or two or more parties on the
same sido, as prescribed in the last sentence of section three
thousand two hundred and fifty-one of this act, and in sub
division second of the last section, cannot exceed, in the
aggregate, two thousand dollars.
§ 3255. Where an application is made to a court or a
referee, to adjourn a trial, the payment to the adverse party
of a sum not exceeding ten dollars, or, in the marine court
of the city of New York, a sum not exceeding five dollars,
besides the fees of his witnesses, and other taxable disburse
ments, already made or incurred, which are rendered in
effectual by the adjournment, may be required, as a condi
tion of granting the adjournment.
§ 3256. A party, to whom costs are awarded in an ac
tion, is entitled to include, in his bill of costs, his necessary
disbursements, as follows : the legal fees of witnesses, and
of referees and other officers ; the reasonable compensation
of commissioners taking depositions ; the legal fees for
publication, where publication is directed, pursuant to
law ; the legal fees paid for a certified copy of a deposition,
or other paper, recorded or filed in any public office,
necessarily used or obtained for use on the trial ; the rea
sonable expenses of printing the papers for a hearing, when
required by a rule of the court ; prospective charges for the
expenses of entering and docketing the judgment; and
the sheriff's fees for receiving, and returning one execution
thereon, including the search for property ; and such other
reasonable and necessary expenses, as are taxable, according to the course and practice of the court, or by express
provision of law.
§ 3257. A plaintifff, who recovers double or other in
creased damages, does not thereby become entitled to more
than single costs ; except where it is otherwise specially pre
scribed by law.
§ 3258. In either of the following cases, a defendant,
in 'whose favor a final ' judgment is rendered, in an action
wherein the complaint demands judgment for a sum of
money only, or to recover a chattel ; or a final order is
made, in a special proceeding instituted by a State writ, is
entitled to recover the costs, prescribed in section three
thousand two hundred and fifty-one of this act, and, in ad
dition thereto, one-half thereof :
1. Where the defendant is or was a public officer, ap
pointed or elected under the authority of the State, or a
person specially appointed, according to law, to perform the
duties of such an officer ; and the action or special proceed
ing was brought by reason of an act, done by him by virtue
of his office, or an alleged omission by him, to do an act,
which it was his official duty to perform.
2. Where the action was brought against the defendant,
by reason of an act done, by the command of such an officer
or person, or in his aid or assistance, touching the duties of
the office or appointment.
8. Where the action was brought against the defendant,
for taking a distress, making a sale, or doing any other act,
by or under color of authority of a statute of this State.
But this section does not apply, where an officer, or other
person, specified herein, unites in his answer with a person
not entitled to such additional costs.
§ 3259. The increase, specified in the last section, does
not extend to the disbursements ; and an officer, witness, or
juror, is not entitled to any other fee in the action, except
the single fee allowed by law for his services.
§ 3260. Where an action, specified in section three
thousand two hundred and twenty-eight of this act, is
settled before judgment, no greater sum shall be demanded
as costs, than at the rates prescribed by section three thou
sand two hundred and fifty-one of this act.
§3261. This article does not affect any provision con
tained elsewhere in this act, or in any other statute remaining
unrepealed after this act takes effect, whereby the amount
of costs is specially fixed, in a particular case, otherwise
than as prescribed in this article.
§ 3262. Costs must be taxed by the clerk, upon the ap^
plication of the party entitled thereto ; except that the
court may direct, that interlocutory costs, or costs in a
special proceeding, be taxed by a judge. The clerk must
insert, in the judgment or final order, the amount of the
costs, as taxed. In a case where the costs are in the dis
cretion of the court, the report or decision, or the direction
of the court for final judgment, upon a default, or after a
jury trial, must specify which party or parties are entitled
to costs ; but the amount of the costs must be ascertained
by taxation. The allowance, specified in section threa
thousand two hundred and fifty-two of this act, must be
computed by the clerk upon the taxation : but the value of
property, required to be ascertained for that purpose, must
• be ascertained by the court, unless it has been fixed by the
decision or report, or by the verdict of the jury, upon which
the final judgment is entered ; except that, in case of actual
partition, it must be determined by the commissioners.
T N. Y.
§ 3263. Costs may be taxed, upon notice to the attorney
S",U ^o' *or eacn Averse party, who has appeared, and is interested
' ' in reducing the amount thereof. Notice of taxation must
be served, not less than five days before the taxation ; un
less the attorneys, serving and served with the notice, all
reside, or have their offices, in the city or town, where the
costs are to be taxed ; in which case, a notice of two days
is sufficient. A copy of the bill of costs, specifying the
items, with the disbursements stated in detail, must be
served with the notice of taxation.
§3264. Costs may also be taxed without notice. But
where they are so taxed, notice of retaxation thereof must
immediately afterwards be given, as prescribed in the last
section, by the party at whose instance they were taxed ; in
default whereof, the court must, upon the application of a
party entitled to notice, direct a retaxation, with costs of the
motion, to be paid by the party in default. The court may,
in its discretion, upon the application of a party interested,
direct, a retaxation of costs at any time. Any sum, de
ducted upon a relaxation, must be credited upon the execu
tion, or other mandate issued to enforce the judgment.
§ 3265. A taxation or a retaxation may be reviewed by
the court, upon a motion for a new taxation. The order,
made upon such a motion, may allow or disallow any item,
objected to before the taxing officer, in which case, it has
the effect of a new taxation ; or it may direct a new taxa
tion before the proper officer, specifying the grounds or the proof, upon which the item may be allowed or disallowed
by him.
§ 3266. An officer, authorized to tax costs in an action S7Han,i>7l.
or a special proceeding, must, whether the taxation is op
posed, or not, examine the bills presented to him for taxa
tion ; must satisfy himself that all the items allowed by him
are correct and legal ; and must strike out all charges for
fees, other than the prospective charges expressly allowed
by law, where it does not appear that the services, for which
they are charged, were necessarily performed.
§ SS67. A charge, for the attendance of a witness, can- 37 nnn.871.
not be allowed without an affidavit, stating the number of ??oHow" Prdays of his actual attendance ; and, if travel fees are
charged, the distance for which they are allowed. A
charge, for a copy of a document or paper, cannot be
allowed, without an affidavit, stating that it was actually
and necessarily used, or was necessarily obtained for use.
An item of disbursements, in a bill of costs, cannot be
allowed, in any case, unless it is verified by affidavit, and
appears to have been necessarily incurred, and to be reason
able in amount.
3268. [Am'd 1891, amendment to take effect September
891.] The defendant, in an action brought in a court
of record, may require security for costs to be given, as
prescribed in this title, where the plaintifff was, when the
action was commenced, either1. A person residing without the State ; or if the action
is brought in a county court, or in the city court of the city
of New Yoik, the city court of Yonkers, or the justices'
court of the city of Albany, residing without the city or
county, as the case may be, wherein the court is located ; or
2. A foreign corporation ; or
3. A person imprisoned under execution for a crime; or
4. The official assignee of a person so imprisoned ; the
official assignee or official trustee of a debtor ; or an as
signee in bankruptcy ; where the action is brought upon

1 1235, consol. Act.
fLJ" ^jt
(j.&s.)358.
pointment of the trustee, or the adjudication in bank
ruptcy ; or
5. An infant, whose guardian ad litem has not given such
security, except as otherwise provided in sections four hun
dred and fifty-nine and four hundred and sixty-nine of this
act.
§ 3269. The defendant, in a like action, may require
security for costs to be given, where, after the commence
ment of the action, the plaintifff either
1. Ceases to be a resident of the State ; or, where the
action is brought in either of the local courts specified in
subdivision first of the last section, ceases to be a resident of
the city or county, as the case may be, wherein the court is
located ; or
2. Is adjudicated a bankrupt, or discharged from his
debts, or exonerated from imprisonment, pursuant to a
law of the State, or of the United States; or
3. Is sentenced to the State prison, for a term less than
for life.
§ 3870. In a case specified in either of the last two sections, if there are two or more plaintifffs, the defendant
cannot require security for costs to be given, unless he is
entitled to require it of all the plaintifffs.
§ 3271. In an action brought by or against an executor
or administrator, in his representative capacity, or the
trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized
by statute to sue, or to be sued ; or by an official assignee.
assignee of a receiver, or the committee of a person
judicially declared to be incompetent to manage his affairs;
the court may, in its discretion, require the plaintifff to give
security for costs.
§ 3272. Where security for costs is required to be given,
the court in which the action is pending, or, except in a
case specified in the last section, a judge thereof, upon due
proof, by affidavit, of the facts, must make an order re
quiring the plaintifff, within a time specified, either to pay
into court, the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars, to be
applied to the payment of the costs, if any, awarded against
him, or, at his election, to file with the clerk an under
taking, and to serve a written notice of the payment or of
the filing upon the defendant's attorney ; and staying all
other proceedings, on the part of the plaintifff, except to re
view or vacate the order, until the payment or filing, and
notice thereof, and also, if an undertaking is given, the al
lowance of the same.
§ 3273. The undertaking, specified in the last section,
must be executed to the defendant by one or more sureties,
and must be to the effect that they will pay, upon demand,
to the defendant, all costs which may be awarded to him in
the action, not exceeding a sum, specified in the undertak
ing, which must be at least two hundred and fifty dollars.
§ 3274. Within ten days after service of the notice ot filing the undertaking, the defendant may serve upon the
plaintifff s attorney a notice that he excepts to the sureties
therein. Within ten days after service of such a notice,
the plaintifff must serve, upon the defendant's attorney, a
notice of the justification of the same or new sureties before
a judge of the court, or a county judge, at a specified time
and place ; the time to be not less than five nor more than
ten days thereafter, and the place to be within the county
where the action is triable.
§3275. Section five hundred and eighty of this act
applies to the justification of the sureties. Where the judge
finds the sureties sufficient, he must annex the written ex
amination, if any, to the undertaking, indorse his allow
ance thereon, and cause them to be filed with the clerk.
Where the defendant fails duly to except to the sureties,
the undertaking is deemed allowed, and must be indorsed
and filed in like manner.
§ 3276. [Am'd 1891, amendment to take effect September
1, 1891.] At any time after the allowance of an under
taking, given pursuant to such an order, or as prescribed in
section three thousand two hundred and seventy-eight of
this act, or after notice of the payment into court made pur
suant to such an order, the court, or a judge thereof, upon
satisfactory proof, by affidavit, that the sum specified in
the undertaking, or the amount of such payment, is insuffi
cient; or that one or more of the sureties have died, or be
come insolvent, or that his or their circumstances have be
come so precarious that there is reason to apprehend that
the undertaking is insufficient for the security of the defend
ant ; must make an order, requiring the plaintifff to give an
additional undertaking or make an additional payment into
court. The last four sections apply to such an order, and
to the undertaking given or payment made pursuant thereto.
6 3277. Where the plaintifff fails to comply with an
order, made as prescribed in this title, or to procure the
allowance of an undertaking "given pursuant to such an
order, the defendant is entitled to a judgment dismissing
the complaint, and in his favor for costs. The defendant
may apply therefore, as upon a motion.
§ 3278. Where a defendant is entitled to require security for costs, as prescribed in section three thousand two
hundred and sixty-eight of this act, the plaintifff's attorney
is liable for the defendant's costs, to an amount not ex
ceeding one hundred dollars, until security is given, as
prescribed in this title. The plaintifff's attorney may re
lieve himself from that liability, although the defendant
has not required seeurity for costs to be given, by filing
and procuring the allowance of an undertaking, as if an
order had been made as prescribed in section three thou
sand two hundred and seventy-two of this act.
§ 3279. The foregoing sections of this title apply to a
special proceeding instituted in a court of record, in like
manner as to an action ; for which purpose the. prosecuting party, other than the people, or, where the special proceed
ing is instituted in the name of the people, upon the relation
of a private corporation or individual, the relator, is deemed
a plaintifff, and the adverse party, a defendant.
§ 3280. Each clerk of a court must perform all the du
ties required of him, in the course and practice of the
court, without fee or reward, except as expressly prescribed
by law. Each public officer, upon whom a duty is ex
pressly imposed by law, must execute the same without fee
or reward, except where a fee or other compensation there
for is expressly allowed by law. An officer or other person,
to whom a fee or other compensation is allowed by law, for
any service, shall not charge or receive a greater fee or
reward, for that service, than is so allowed.
§ 3281. An officer, or other person, shall not demand
or receive any fee or compensation, allowed to him by law
for any service, unless the service was actually ren
dered by him ; exc: pt that an officer may demand in advance
his fee. where he is, by law, expressly directed or permitted
to require payment thereof, before rendering the service.
§ 3282. An officer or other person, who violates either
of the provisions contained in the last two sections, is liable,
in addition to the punishment prescribed by law for the
criminal offense, to an action in behalf of the person ag
grieved, in which the plaintifff is entitled to treble damages.
§ 3283. The clerk of the Court of appeals must, within
ten days after the first day of January, and after the first
day of July, in each year, render to the comptroller an ac
curate account, under oath, of all fees received by him for
his official services, since the last account was rendered ;
and must pay the same into the treasury of the State.
152, Con§ 3284. The clerk of each of the following courts, to
hun'wi w'* • tne court °f common pleas for the city and county of
' New York, and the superior court of the city of New York, must account for all fees received by him for his official
services, and pay the same into the city treasury, as pre
scribed by law. The clerk of the city court of Brooklyn
must account for all fines paid to him, and all fees received
by him for his official services, and pay the same into the
treasury of the county of Kings, as prescribed by law.
§ 3285. Except as otherwise specially prescribed by
law, each county clerk* or register,* who receives a salary,
must account for, under oath, and pay to the treasurer of
his county, in the manner prescribed by law, all fees, per
quisites, and emoluments, received by him, for his official
services.
§ 3286. Where a public officer is required, by law, to
keep an account of, or to pay over, the fees or other
monies, received by him for official services, he must in
clude therein all sums, received by him, to which he was
entitled, by reason of any act, performed by him in his
official capacity ; whether the act did or did not pertain to
his office, or to the business thereof.
§ 3287. Each county clerk or register of deeds, who 26 Hun, 356.
claims any fees by virtue of his office ; and each sheriff or ** N- Y^
coroner, who, upon the collection of an execution, or the
jUJ;
settlement, either before or after judgment, of an action
or a special proceeding, claims any fees, which have not
been taxed ; must, upou the written demand of the person
liable to pay the same, cause them to be taxed within the
county, upon notice to the person making the demand, by
a justice of the supreme court, a judge of a superior city
court, or the county judge. After such a demand is made,
the officer cannot collect his fees, until they have been so
taxed.
§ 3288. A party to an action or a special proceeding is
not entitled to a fee, for attending as a witness therein, in
his own behalf, or in behalf of a party who pleads jointly,
or is united in interest, with him ; and an attorney or coun
sel, in an action or a special proceeding, is not entitled to a
fee, for attending as a witness therein, in behalf of his
client.
§ 3289. An officer is not entitled to a fee, for adminis
tering the oath of office to a member of the legislature, to
any military officer, to an inspector of election, clerk of the
poll, or any town officer ; or to more than ten cents, for ad
ministering an official oath to any othej officer.
§ 3290. Each of the following officers, to wit : the
•ecretary of State, the comptroller, the treasurer, the At
torney-General, and the State engineer and surveyor, may
require search to be made, in the office of either of the
others, or of a county clerk, or of the clerk of a court of
* As to New York county see for law regulating county clerk, §5
1728-1781, Consol. Act, and see for law regulating register, L. 1884, c.
631, §53, 11. record, for any record, document, or paper, where he deems
it necessary for the discharge of his official duties, and a
copy thereof or extracts therefrom, to be made and officially
certified or exemplified, without the payment of any fee
or charge.
§3291. Where an officer or other person is required, in
the course of a duty imposed upon him by law, to take an
oath, to acknowledge an instrument, to cause an instru
ment to be filed or recorded, or to transmit a paper to
another officer, he is entitled, in addition to the fees, or
other compensation for the service, prescribed by law, to
the fees necessarily paid by him, to the officer who admin
istered the oath, or took the acknowledgment, or filed or
recorded the instrument ; and to the expense of transmit
ting the paper, including postage, where the transmission is
lawfully made through the post-office.
§ 3292. Each provision of this act, requiring a judge,
clerk, or other officer to transmit a paper to another officer,
for the benefit of a party, is to be construed as requiring
the transmission only at the request of the person so to be
benefited, and upon payment by him of the fees allowed by
law for the paper transmitted, or any copy or certificate
connected therewith, and the expenses specified iu the last
section.
§ 3293. If the proprietor of each newspaper, published
in a city or county, in which any notice, order, citation, or
other paper is required by law to be published, refuses to
publish the same, for the fees prescribed by law for the
publication, it may be published in the newspaper, printed
at Albany, in which legal notices are required by law to be
published.* If it is required by law to be published in that
newspaper, and also in another newspaper published in a
city or county, and the proprietor of each newspaper in
that city or county refuses to publish it for the fees so pre
scribed, it may be published in the newspaper, published
nearest to the place, where a person is required to appear, or
where an act is to be done, pursuant thereto, the proprietor
of which will publish the same, for those fees. Publica
tion, made as prescribed in this section, is as valid, as if it
was made in the city or county, where the publication
thereof is so required by law.
§ 3294. Where publication is made, as prescribed in the
fast section, elsewhere than in the city or county where it is
otherwise required by law to be made, the affidavit of pub
lication must either be accompanied with an affidavit, or
contain a statement, to the effect that an application to pub
lish the advertisement was, before such publication, made
to the proprietor of each newspaper published in the city or
county ; that the amount of the legal fees for such publica
tion was at the same time tendered ; and that the application
* See L. 1884, c. 133, repealing acts providing for a state paper. was refused. Such an affidavit is presumptive evidence of
the facts stated therein.
§ 3295. Where the fees or other charges of an officer
are chargeable to the State, they must be audited by the
comptroller, and paid on his warrant, except as otherwise
specially prescribed by law.
§ 3296. A referee, in an action or a special proceeding,
brought in a court of record, or in a special proceeding,
taken
prescribed
seventeenth
of
thisasact,
is entitledin totitle
sixtwelfth
dollarsofforchapter
each day,
spent in
the business of the reference ; unless, at or before the com
mencement of the trial or hearing, a different rate of com
pensation is fixed, by the consent of the parties, other than
those in default for failure to appear or plead, manifested
by an entry in the minutes of the referee, or otherwise in
writing, or a smaller compensation is fixed by the court or
judge in the order appointing him.
§ 3297. [Am'd 1891, amendment to take effect September
1, 1891.] The fees of a referee appointed to sell real
property, pursuant to a judgment in an action, are the
same as those allowed to the sheriff and he is allowed the
same disbursements as the sheriff. Where a refers e is re
quired to take security upon a sale, or to distribute, or
apply, or ascertain and report upon the distribution or application of any of the proceeds of the sale, he is also
entitled to one-half of the commissions upon the amount so
secured, distributed or applied, allowed by law to an exec
utor or administrator for receiving and paying out money.
But commissions shall not be allowed to him upon a sum
bidden by a party, and applied upon that party's demand,
as fixed by the judgment, without being paid to the referee,
except to the amount of ten dollars. And a referee's com
pensation, including commissions, cannot, where the sale is
under a judgment in an action to foreclose a mortgage, ex.
ceed fifty dollars, or in any other case five hundred dollars.
§ 3298. Any officer, authorized to perform the services
specified in this section, and to receive fees therefore, is
entitled to the following fees :
1, For administering an oath or affirmation, and certifying
the same when required, except where another fee is
specially prescribed by statute, twelve cents.
2. For taking and certifying the acknowledgment or
proof of the execution of a written instrument ; by one
person, twenty-five cents ; and by each additional person,
twelve cents : for swearing each witness thereto, six cents.
§ 3299. A surveyor, employed as prescribed by law, in
an action for partition or dower, or to determine dower, is
entitled to five dollars for each day, actually and necessa
rily occupied in surveying, laying out, marking, or mapping
land therein. Each assistant, so employed, is entitled to
two dollars for each day, actually and necessarily occupied
In serving under the surveyor's direction. Each commis
sioner, appointed as prescribed by law, to make partition or
admeasure dower, is entitled to five dollars for each day's
actual and necessary service.
§ 3300. The clerk of the Court of appeals is entitled, for
the services specified in this section, to the following fees :
For filing a notice of appeal to that court, and all the
papers transmitted therewith, fifty cents.
For filing any other paper, ten cents.
For drawing an order, twenty cents for each folio.
For entering an order, twenty cents ; and for each folio
more than two, ten cents.
For drawing a judgment, twenty-five cents ; aid for
each folio more than two, ten cents.
For entering a judgment, twenty-five cents ; and for each
folio more than two, ten cents.
For a certified copy of an order, record or other paper,
entered or filed in his office, ten cents for each folio.
For engrossing a remittitur, ten cents for each folio.
For a certificate, other than that a paper, for the copy
ing of which he is entitled to a fee, is a copy, twenty-five
cents.
For sealing any paper, when required, fifty cents.
§ 3301. [Am'd 1882, 1890.] Except as otherwise pre
scribed in the annexed section, each clerk of a court of record is entitled, for his services in an action or a special
proceeding, brought in or transferred to the court of which
he is clerk, to the following fees :
Upon the trial of the action, or the hearing, upon the
merits, of the special proceeding, from the party bringing
it on, one dollar.
For entering final judgment in the action, or entering a
final order in the special proceeding, including the filing of
the judgment roll, and a copy of the judgment to insert
therein, fifty cents ; and ten cents in addition for each folio
exceeding ten, contained in the order or judgment.
For entering any other order or an interlocutory judg
ment, ten cents for each folio, exceeding five.
For a certified or other copy of an order, record or other
paper, entered or filed in his office, five cents for each folio.
Where, on an appeal from a judgment or order, a party
shall present to the clerk a printed copy of the judgment
roll or order appealed from, it shall be the duty of the
clerk, as required, to compare and certify the same, for
which service he shall be entitled to be paid at the rate of
one cent per folio.
For a certified transcript of the docket of a judgment,
twelve cents.
For filing a transcript and docketing or re-docketing a
Judgment thereupon, six cents.
He is not entitled to any fee, or other compensation, for
any other service, in an action or a special proceeding in
the court, except that where he is also county clerk.he may
charge fees as prescribed in section thirty-three hundred and
four of this act, subject to the limitations therein contained.
Where the attorneys for all the parties interested, other
than parties in default, or against whom a judgment or a
final order has been taken, and is not appealed from, stipu
late in writing that a paper is a copy of any paper whereof
a certified copy is required by any provisions of this act,
the stipulation takes the place of a certificate, as to the
parties so stipulating, and the clerk is not required to certify
the same, or entitled to any fees therefore.
And the paper so proved by stipulation shall be received
by the clerks of all the courts and by the courts and shall
be used or filed with the same force and effect as if certified
by a clerk of the court.
§ 3302. The last section does not apply to the clerk of
a surrogate's court, of the marine court of the city of New
York, of the city court of Yonkers, of the justices' court
of the city of Albany, or of a mayor's or recorder's court.
§ 3303. The clerk of any court, which has jurisdiction
to naturalize an alien, is entitled, for the services specified
in the section, to the following fees :
For all services, upon the filing of a declaration of in
tention by an alien to become a citizen, including the oath
or affirmation, the recording of the same, and a certificate
thereof delivered to the alien, twenty cents.
For all services, upon the admi. ion of the alien to be £
citizen, including the recording ot the papers, and a certi
fied copy of the record, which must be delivered to any
person requiring it, fifty cents.
| 3304. A county clerk is entitled, for the services spe
cified in this section, except where another fee is allowed
therefore by special statutory provision, to the following fees :
For searching and certifying the title to, and incum
brances upon real property, for each 3"ear for which the
search is made, for each name, and each kind of convey
ance or lien, five cents. *
For a copy of an order, record, or other paper, entered
or filed in his office, eight cents for each folio.
For filing a transcript, and making- an entry as prescribed
in section twelve hundred and fifty-eight of this act, twelve
cents.
For issuing an execution upon a judgment, a transcript
whereof, or of the docket of which, has been filed in his
office, fifty cents, to be paid by the party at whose request
the execution is issued, and to be collected by the sheriff in
addition to the sum due upon the judgment.
For recording and indexing a notice of the pendency of an
action filed in his office, ten cents for each folio contained
in the notice.
For cancelling such a notice, or a notice filed in his office,
as prescribed in section six hundred and forty-nine of this
act, twenty-five cents.
For recording any instrument, which must or may legally
be recorded by him, ten cents for each folio.
For filing a certificate of satisfaction, or other satisfactionpiece, of a mortgage, and entering the satisfaction, twentyfive cents.
For affixing and indexing a notice of foreclosure of a
mortgage as prescribed in section two thousand three huudred and ninety, of this act, twenty-five cents.
For entering a minute that a mortgage has been fore
closed, ten cents.
For filing and entering a satisfaction or an assignment of
a judgment, twelve cents.
For filing and entering the bond of a collector or other
officer authorized to receive taxes, twelve cents'.
For searching for such a bond, six cents.
For entering satisfaction thereof, twelve cents.
For sealing any paper, when required, twelve cents.
For filing and docketing notice of a mechanic's lien, ten
cents.
For filing and entering specifications and all other papers
relating to a lien against a vessel, twenty-five cents
For filing any paper required by law to be filed in his
office, other than as expressly provided for in this section,
six cents.
* As to fees for searching in New York county, see L. 188 1, c.
For filing any paper deposited with him for safe keeping,
six cents ; and for searching for such a paper, when re
quired, three cents for each paper necessarily opened and
examined.
For a certificate, other than that a paper, for the copying
of which he is entitled to a fee, is a copy, twenty five tents.
For inquiring into, determining, and certifying the suf
ficiency of the sureties of a sheriff, fifty cents.
For attending upon the canvassing of votes, given at an
election, two dollars.
For drawing the necessary certificates of the result of the
canvass, eighteen cents for each folio ; and for the neces
sary copies thereof, nine cents for each folio.
For notifying the governor that any person has taken an
oath of office, ten cents and the necessary postage.
For notifying the governor that any person has neglected
to take an oath of office, or to file or renew any security,
■within the time prescribed by law, or of a vacancy in an of
fice in his county, ten cents and the necessary postage.
For notifying any person of his appointment to office,
twenty-five cents, and the expenses, actually and necessarily
incurred in giving the notice, which the comptroller deems
reasonable.
For entering, in the minutes of the county court, a license
to keep a ferry, and for a copy thereof, one dollar.
For taking and entering a recognizance, from any person
authorized to keep a ferry, twenty-five cents.
But a county clerk is not entitled to any fee, under this
section, for a copy of, or for filing or certifying, any paper,
in a civil action or special proceeding, in a court of which he
is ex-officio clerk.
§ 3305. The last section does not affect any special
statutory provision, remaining unrepealed after this title
takes effect, whereby a fee, different from the fee therein
allowed, is allowed to the clerk of the city and county of
New York, or of the county of Kings, for a service therein
specified.
§ 3306. The register of any county,* or the clerk of any
court of record, is entitled, for any services specified in the
last section but one, which he is authorized to perform, to
the fees specified therein, subject to the qualifications
therein contained.
§ 3307. [Am'd 1884.] A sheriff f is entitled, for the 34 nun, 467.
services specified in this section, to the following fees.
123N.Y. 517
1. For serving a summons, with or without either a
copy of the complaint, or a notice specified in section four
hundred and nineteen or section four hundred and twentythree of this act; or for serving or executing an order of
♦For fees of register in Now York conntv pee L. 1884, c. 531, § 4 ;
L. 1*7, c. 3711, § 9; L. 1S89, c. 319, § 13 ; L. 1890, e. 47S, g 7.
t For fees of tlie sheriff in New York county eee L. 1890, c. 523, § arrest, or any other mandate, for the service or execution of
■which no other fee is specially prescribed by law, except a
subpoena, one dollar for each person served or as to whom
it is executed ; and for necessary travelling to serve or
execute the same, six cents for each mile travelled, going
and returning; the travelling fees to be computed from the
court house of the county; or, if there are two or more
court houses, from that nearest to the place of service or
execution. But where two or more mandates are delivered
to a sheriff, to be served upon or executed against one
person at one time, in one action or special proceeding ; or
where a mandate is served upon or executed against two or
more persons, in one action or special proceeding, and in
the course of one journey; the sheriff is entitled, in all, to
six cents only, for each mile travelled.
4 Month. L.
2. For levying a warrant of attachment against the propuon v'
erty °^ a defendant, issued as prescribed in title third of
chapter seventh of this act, or for executing a requisition to
replevy one or more chattels, one dollar ; and, also, such
additional compensation, for his trouble and expenses, in
taking possession of and preserving the property, as the
judge issuing the warrant, or in a case of replevin, as the
court or a judge thereof allows, and the judge or court may
make an order requiring the p.irty liable therefore to pay
the same to the sheriff. For making and filing a descrip
tion of real property, or an inventory of personal property
attached, twenty-five cents for each folio ; for each neces
sary copy thereof, twelve cento for each folio; together
with such compensation to the appraisers, as the judge
issuing the warrant allows, not exceeding two dollars to each
appraiser, for each day actually employed. For advertis
ing, during the pendency of the action, personal property
attached, the same fees as are allowed to a sheriff for
advertising personal property for sale, by virtue of an
execution. If the action is settled, either before or after
judgment, the sheriff is entitled to poundage, upon the
value of the property attached, not exceeding the sum
at which the settlement is made.
3. For a copy, necessarily made by him, of a summons
or other mandate, or of a complaint, affidavit, or other
paper served by him, where no fee therefore is specially pre
scribed by law, twelve cents for each folio.
fio How. Pr.
4. For notifying jurors to attend a trial term of a court
tiof record, fifty cents for each cause placed upon the calen
dar, for trial by a jury, to be paid by the party first putting
the cause on the calendar for that term. Hut the sheriff is
not entitled to more than one dollar and fifty cents for
calendar fees in one action. The clerk shall not put a
cause upon the calendar for trial by a jury, until the fee,
specified in this subdivision, is paid to him, for the use of
the sheriff. And where the cause is tried at a subsequent
term, without a new note of issue, as prescrilied in section
nine hundred and seventy-seven of this act, the party moving the trial must pay to the clerk, for the use of the
sheriff, the calendar fee or fees remaining unpaid.
5. For notifying jurors drawn to attend upon a writ of
inquiry, or to try the validity of a claim to personal prop
erty, seized by virtue of a wan-art of attachment or an
execution, or in obedience to a precept, issued by commis
sioners appointed to inquire concerning the incompetency
of a person to manage himself or his affairs, in consequence
of idiocy, lunacy, or habitual drunkenness, or in any case
not provided for in the last preceding subdivision of this
section, including the making and return of the inquisition
when required, for each juror notified, twenty-five cents.
For attending a jury, when required, in such a case, two
dollars.
6. For receiving an execution against property, entering
it in his books, searching for property, and postage on the
return, when made through the post-office, fifty cents. If
required by the sheriff, that fee, together with his fee for
returning the execution, must be paid, by the person in whose
behalf the execution is issued, at the time when it is delivered
to the sheriff, who is not bound to execute it unless the fee
is so paid. For mileage upon an execution, for each mile,
going only, ten cents ; to be computed as prescribed in sub
division first of this section.
7. For collecting money by virtue of an execution, a
warrant of attachment, or an attachment for the payment of
money in an action or a special proceeding ; or by virtue of
a warrant for the collection of money, issued by the comp
troller, or by a county treasurer ; in any county except New
York, Kings, or Westchester, three per centum upon the
sum collected, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars,
and two per centum upon the residue of the sum collected ;
and in either of the counties of New York, Kings, or West
chester, two and one half per centum upon the sum collected,
not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars, and one and
one quarter per centum upon the residue of the sum col
lected ; and also, where an execution is stayed after a levy,
by order of the court or otherwise, or where a levy
is upon a live animal, or speedily perishable properly, such
additional compensation, for his trouble and expenses in
taking care of and preserving the property, as the court or
a judge therof allows. Where a settlement is made after a
levy by virtue of an execution, the sheriff is entitled to pound
age upon the value of the property levied upon, not exceeding
the sum at which the settlement is made, and to the addi
tional compensation, if any, provided for in this subdivision.
8. For advertising real or personal property for sale, by
virtue of an execution, warrant of attachment, or other
warrant specified in the last preceding subdivision, two dol
lars, unless it is stayed or settled before sale ; and in that case,
one dollar.
9. For making duplicate certificates of the sale of real
property, by virtue of an execution, twenty-five cents for each folio. For drawing and executing a conveyanee.upa
a sale of real property, two dollars, to be paid by the gnuteo. The sheriff is also entitled to the printer's fees, ■
prescribed by law, paid by him for the publication, not mm
than six weeks, of a notice of the sale of real property, and
he may require the party directing the sale to advance the
printer's fees, in which case he must repay the same out of
the proceeds. Where the notice is published more than ai
weeks, or the sale is postponed, the expense of continuing
the publication, or of publishing the notice of postponement,
must be paid by the person requesting it. Where two or
more executions against the property of one judgmentdebtor are in the hands of the sheriff, at the time when the
property is first advertised, the sheriff is entitled to printer's
fees upon only one execution ; and he must elect upon which
execution he will receive the same,
10. For returning any mandate, which he is required bj
law to return, twelve cents. For a certified copy of an
execution, and of the return of satisfaction thereupon,
delivered as prescribed in section twelve hundred and sixtysix of this act, twenty-five cents.
11. For posting and publishing the notice of sale, selling
and conveying, real property, in pursuance of a direction
contained in a judgment, the like fees, as for the same ser
vices upon the sale of real property by virtue of an execu
tion ; but where real property is sold under a judgment in
an action to foreclose a mortgage, the sheriff's entire com
pensation cannot exceed fifty dollars.
12. For taking a bond for the liberties of the jail, one
dollar. For taking any other bond, or any undertaking,
which he is authorized to take, fifty cents. For a certified
copy of such a bond or undertaking, twenty-five cents.
13. For executing any mandate, requiring him to pat i
person into possession of real property, other than a warrant
specified in subdivision eighteenth of this section, and re
moving the person in possession, one dollar and fifty cents,
and the same travel fees as upon the service of a summons.
14. For each person committed to or discharged from
prison, in an action or a special proceeding, one dollar, to
be paid by the person at whose instance he is imprisoned.
For attending before an officer, for the purpose of sur
rendering a prisoner, or receiving into custody a prisoner
surrendered, in exoneration of his bail, including all hia
services upon such a surrender or receipt, one dollar.
15. For attending a view, two dollars for each day, and
for travelling, going and returning, eight cents for each
mile.
16. For bringing up a prisoner, upon a writ of habeas
corpus to inquire into the cause of detention, one dollar and
fifty cents ; and for travelling to and from the jail, twelve
cents for each mile. For bringing up a prisoner, upon any
other writ of habeas corpus, the same fees; and for attend
ing the court or judge thereupon, one dollar for each day.
The sheriff is entitled, in addition to the sum specified in
t li is subdivision, to his actual and necessary expenses.
17. For any services, which may be rendered by a con
stable, other than those specially provided for in this sec
tion, the same fees, as are allowed by law to a constable for
ttiose services.
18. For executing a warrant, to remove any person from
lands, belonging to the people of the State, or to Indians,
such a sum as the comptroller audits, and certifies to be a
reasonable compensation.
19. For giving notice of any general or special election,
to all the officers, to whom he is required by law to give
such a notice, one dollar for each town or ward, in addition
to the expense of publishing the notices, as required by
law ; payable from the county treasury.
20. For notifying constables to attend a court, fifty cents
for each constable notified.
21. For attending a term of a court, which he is required
t>y law to attend, for each day, three dollars.
§ 3308. The last section, except the limitation of
amount contained in subdivision eleventh thereof, does not
affect any special statutory provision, remaining unrepealed
after this title takes effect, relating to the fees and expenses
of the sheriff of the city and county of New York, or the
sheriff of the county of Kings.
§ 3309. The fees of a sheriff, upon an execution against
property, other than those with respect to which it is spe
cially prescribed by statute, either that they must be paid by
a particular person, or that they may be included in the
costs of the party in whose favor the execution is issued,
must be collected by virtue of the execution, in the same
manner as the sum therein directed to be collected.
§ 3310. A coroner is entitled, for the services specified
in this section, to the following fees :
1. For performing any duty of a sheriff, in an action or a
special proceeding, in which the sheriff is, for any cause,
disqualified, the same fees to which a sheriff is entitled for
the same services.
2. For confining a sheriff in a house, by virtue of a man
date, and maintaining him while there, two dollars for each
day, to be paid by the sheriff, before he is entitled to be
discharged.
13311 [Am'd 1885, 1886, 1887, 1891, amendment to take effect
Scptember'l, 1891]. Except where otherwise agreed, or when special
provision is otherwise made by statute, a stenographer is entitled, for a
copy lully written out from his stenographic notes of the testimony, or
any other proceeding, taken in an action, or a special proceeding in a
court of record, or before a judge thereof, and furnished, upon request,
to a party or his attorney, to the following fees for each folio : In a
circuit court or court of oyer and terminer, or at a special tern, of the
supreme court in the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh or eighth judi
cial district, or in the superior court of Buffalo, six cents ; in any other
court or courts, ten cents ; and for the copy of the testimony required
to be made in any proceeding for the records of the surrogate's court of
either of the counties of New York or Kings.
§ 3312. [Am'd 1881, 1889.] A constable or a deput;
sheriff is entitled, for attending a sitting of a court of
record, pursuant to a notice from the sheriff, to the follow
ing fees for each day's actual attendance in any county ia
the State, two dollars, except that in the county of Erie,
the compensation shall be three dollars, and mileage, si
allowed by law to trial jurors in courts of record. Tbost
fees must be paid by the county treasurer, upon the pro
duction of the certificate of the clerk, stating the number
of days that the constable or deputy sheriff attended. But
the provisions of this section shall not be applicable to tie
counties of Kings or New York.
§ 3313. A trial juror, in an action or a special proceed
ing, in a court of record, is entitled, except as otherwise
specially prescribed by statute in a particular court, or i
particular county, to the following fees : twenty-five centi
for each cause in which he is empaneled, to be paid by the
party noticing the cause for trial ; or, if it is noticed by
more than one party, by the party whom the court directs
to pay it.
§ 3314. In the county of New York, the common coun
cil, and in any other county, the board of supervisors may
direct that a sum, not exceeding two dollars, in addition to
the fees prescribed in the last section, or in any other statu
tory provision, be allowed to each grand juror, and each
trial juror, for each day's attendance at a term of a court
of record, of civil or criminal jurisdiction, held within their
county; and also travel fees for going to and returning
from the term, not exceeding five cents for each mile. The
sum so allowed must be paid by the county treasurer, upon
the certificate of the clerk of the court, stating the number
of days that the juror actually attended, and the number of
miles travelled by him, in order to attend. The amount so
paid must be raised in the same manner, as other county
charges are raised.
39 Hun, 484.
§ 3315. Where the trial, by a jury, of an issue of fact,
in either a civil or a criminal action or special proceeding,
in a court of record, occupies more than thirty days, the
court, by an order entered in the minutes, may fix and
allow, to each juror, such an extra compensation as it deems
reasonable, for his services thereupon ; the amount of
which compensation, together with the expenses, actually
and necessarily incurred, for food for the jurors during the
trial, is a county charge.
§ 3316. A trial juror, sworn in a special proceeding, be
fore a judge of a court of record ; or upon a writ of inquiry ;
or upon a trial, before a sheriff, of a claim to personal
property, seized by virtue of a warrant of attachment or an
execution ; is entitled to twenty-five cents, to be paid by
the person at whose instance the jury is empaneled.
§ S3 17. Except as otherwise specially prescribed by
law, the proprietor of a newspaper is entitled, for publish
ing a summons, notice, order, citation, or other advertise
ment, required by law to be published, other than the ses
sion laws, for each folio, to seventy-five cents for the first
insertion, and fifty cents for each subsequent insertion. The
compensation, for publishing the session laws, must be
fixed by the board of supervisors, at not more than fifty
cents for each folio.
§ 3318. A witness in an action or a special proceeding,
attending before a court of record, or a judge thereof, is
entitled, except where another fee is specially prescribed by
law. to fifty cents for each day's attendance ; and, if he
resides more than three miles from the place of attendance,
to eight cents for each mile, going to the place of attendance.
§ 3319. A witness, attending before a commissioner or
an officer, authorized to take his deposition to be used without the State, in a case other than one specified in section
three thousand three hundred and twenty-seven of this act,
is entitled to two dollars for each day's actual attendance,
and to eight cents for each mile, going to the place of at
tendance.
§ 3320. A receiver, except as otherwise specially prescribed by statute, is entitled, in addition to his lawful ex
penses, to such a commission, not exceeding five per centum
upon the sums received and disbursed by him, as the court
by which, or the judge by whom he is appointed, allows.
§ 3321. A county treasurer, or, in the city and county
of New York, the chamberlain, is entitled, for the services
specified in this section, to the following fees.:
For receiving money paid into court, one half of one per
centum, upon the sum so received.
For paying out the same, one half of one per centum,
upon the sum so paid out.
For investing money, pursuant to the direction of a court,
one half of one per centum upon the sum invested, not ex
ceeding two hundred dollars, and one quarter of one per
centum upon the excess, over two hundred dollars.
For receiving the interest upon an investment, and paying
the same to the person entitled thereto, one half of one per
centum upon the interest so received and paid.
§ 3322. A justice of the peace is entitled, for the services
specified in this section, to the following fees :
1. In an action brought before a justice of the peace.
Kor a summons, twenty-five cents.
For an order of arrest, twenty-live cents.
For a warrant of attachment, twenty-five cents.
For a requisition in an action for a chattel, twenty-five
| cents.
For a subpoena, including all the names inserted therein.
twenty-five cents.

§ 1301, ron8o1- ActFor the acknowledgment of a power of attorney, twenty
five cents.
For taking an affidavit, or administering an oath, to
cents.
For drawing an affidavit, application, or notice, require!
by statute, five cents for each folio.
For drawing a bond or an undertaking, twenty-firc
cents.
For hearing an application for a commission to examia
one or more witnesses, fifty cents.
For an order for such a commission, and attending, set
tling, and certifying interrogatories, fifty cents.
For hearing an application to discharge a defendant
from arrest, or to vacate or modify a warrant of attach
ment, or increase the plaintifff's security thereupon, fifty
cents.
For an adjournment, except where it is made by tit
justice upon his own motion, twenty-five cents.
For a venire, twenty-five cents.
For empanelling and swearing a jury, twenty-five cents,
For hearing the plaintifff's evidence, where the defendant
does not appear, twenty-five cents.
For the trial of a demurrer, twenty-five cents.
For the trial of an issue of fact, where the defendant ap
pears, seventy-five cents.
For receiving and entering the verdict of a jury, twentyfive cents.
For entering judgment, twenty-five cents.
For filing each paper required by statute to be filed, five
cents.
For a transcript of a judgment, twenty-five cents.
For a copy ef any paper for which a fee is not expressly
prescribed by law, six cents for each folio.
For an execution, or the renewal of an execution, twen
ty-five cents.
For making a return upon an appeal from a judgment,
two dollars.
For an order, directing an action or a special proceeding
to be continued before another justice, twenty-five cents.
For services when associated with another justice, in any
case where a fee therefore is not expressly prescribed by
law, for each day actually spent, two dollars.
2. In a special proceeding, or an action not brought be
fore a justice of the peace.
For a warrant, in a case where a fee therefore is not ex
pressly prescribed by law, twenty-five cents.
For a warrant for the apprehension of a person chargul
with being the father of a bastard, fifty cents ; for indors
ing a warrant, issued from another county, twenty-five
cents.
For services when associated with another justice, in any
case where a fee therefore is not expressly prescribed by
law, for each day actually spent, two dollars. For s precept or other mandate, whereby a special proeeding is commenced, in a case where a fee therefore is
ot specially prescribed by taw, twenty-five cents.
For a view of real property, in a case where it is required
>y law, fifty cents.
For a warrant of attachment to arrest a delinquent juror
ir -witness, twenty-five cents.
For drawing, signing, and depositing with the clerk, a
ainute or record of conviction of such a juror or witness, or
if any person for contempt, in any case where a fee thureor is not specially prescribed by law, fifty cents.
For an execution upon such a conviction before him,
wenty-five cents.
For drawing, copying, and certifying a bond, an underaking, a recognizance, or other written security, and tiling
he same with the county clerk, or other officer with whom
t must be filed, twenty-five cents.
For a warrant of commitment for any cause, twenty-five
;ents.
For a subpoena, including all the names inserted therein,
twenty-five cents.
For a precept to notify a jury, fifty cents.
For empanelling and swearing a jury, twenty-five cents ;
exeept in proceedings to alter or lay out a highway, in
which case he is entitled to two dollars.
For hearing the matter, concerning which a jury is called,
fifty cents.
For receiving and entering the verdict of the jury, and
the order, if any, thereupon, twenty-five cents.
For any service for which a fee is not expressly allowed
by this subdivision, and for which, if rendered in an action
before a justice, a fee is allowed by the first subdivision of
this section, the fee allowed in such an action for the same
service.
For taking the deposition of a witness, upon an order
made, or commission issued, by a court of record of tho
State, or a court in another state or a territory, or a foreign
country, ten cents for each folio.
For making tho necessary return and certificate thereto,
fifty cents.
For taking an affidavit or administering an oath, ten
cents.
§ 3323. [Am'd 1890.] A constable is entitled, for the
services specified in this section, to the following fees :
1. In an action brought before a justice of the peace, or
in a justices' court of a city, for serving a summons, twentyfive cents ; for serving a summons and executing an order
of arrest, one dollar ; for serving a summons and levying a
warrant of attachment, one dollar; for serving a summons
and affidavit and executing » requisition in an action for a
chattel, one dollar j 1<it wt <rhig flfi order, directing the
action to be continued \tetntp- h justice other than the one
before whom it t» ptrttdiun, m>>i tut Attending before the latter, fifty cents, and fifty cents in addition if he so attends
with a person in his custody ; for collecting money by virtue
of an execution, for every dollar collected, to the amount of
fifty dollars, five cents ; for every dollar collected ever fifty
dollars, two and one-half cents ; where a judgment or an
execution is settled after a levy, the constable is entitled t»
poundage upon the sum at which the settlement is inacit.
not exceeding the value of the property levied upon ; fur
each mile necessarily traveled, going and returning, to serve
a summons or to serve or to execute any other mandate, cxcept a venire, the distance to be computed from the place
of abode of the person served, or the place where it is served
to the place where it is returnable, ten cents ; but where two
or more mandates in one action are served or executed upon
one journey, or where a mandate is served or executed
against two or more persons in one action he is entitled, in
all, to only ten cents for each mile necessarily traveled ; for
notifying the plaintifff of the execution of an order of arre-t,
twenty-five cents ; and for going to the plaintifff's residence,
or, if he is found elsewhere, to the place where he is found,
to serve such a notice, for each mile traveled, going and re
turning, ten cents ; for subpoenaing each witness, not ex
ceeding four, twenty-five cents ; for notifying the jurors to
attend a trial, one dollar and fifty cents ; for taking charge
of a jury during their deliberations, fifty cents ; where
witnesses, not exceeding four, are subpoenaed by any
person other than a constable, the fee therefore is ten cents
each.
2. In a special proceeding.
For notifying jurors to attend to assess damages, in pro
ceedings relating to highways, two dollars.
For notifying jurors to attend in any other case, unless
a fee therefore is specially prescribed by law, for each per
son notified, ten cents ; and for each mile actually and
necessarily travelled, going from and returning to his place
of residence, ten cents.
For serving a precept or other mandate, by which the
special proceeding is commenced, twenty-five cents.
For serving a warrant, in any case where a fee therefore
is not specially prescribed by law, fifty cents.
For serving an order, directing the special proceeding to
be continued before a justice other than the one before
whom it is pending, and for attending before the latter,
fifty cents, and fifty cents in addition if he so attends with
a person in his custody.
For arresting and committing any person, pursuant to
process, one dollar.
For subpoenaing each witness, not exceeding four, twentyfive cents.
For each mile necessarily travelled, going and returning,
to serve or execute a mandate, the distance to be computed
from the place where it is served or executed, to the place
where it is returnable, unless a different rate of travel fees upon the service or execution thereof is specially prescribed
by statute, ten cents. Where two or more mandates are
served or executed in one special proceeding, the limitation
upon the amount of travel fees specified in the last pre
ceding subdivision applies.
§3324. A constable who charges any travelling fees,
must show, by affidavit, that the travel was necessary to
perform the service with respect to which it is charged ;
that no more miles are charged for, than were actually and
in good faith travelled for that purpose ; that he had at the
time no other official or private business upon the route so
travelled ; and that the travelling fees are charged upon
one mandate only, which must be attached to or described
in the affidavit. The justice taxing the fees must be satis
fied that the miles charged for were actually and necessarily
travelled, as stated in the affidavit.
§ 3325. A party recovering costs in an action before a
justice of the peace, in whose behalf a commission has been
issued, and who introduces in evidence a deposition taken
thereunder, is entitled to recover his actual disbursements
thereupon, not exceeding the following sums : commis
sioner's fees for taking and returning testimony, one dollar;
each subpoena issued, or oath administered, by the com
missioner, six cents ; expense of serving each subpoena,
twenty-five cents ; each witness's fees for each day's attend
ance before the commissioner, twenty-five cents; postage
for sending and returning the commission and papers an
nexed thereto, one dollar.
i 3326. Except as otherwise specially prescribed by law,
a person, notified to attend as a juror, is entitled to twentyfive cents, for attending and serving, upon the trial of an
action or the hearing of a special proceeding, before a
justice of the peace ; and to ten cents for attending to serve
where he is not sworn.
§ 3327. A witness is entitled to twenty-five cents, for
each day's actual attendance, before a justice of the peace,
in an action or a special proceeding, or before a commis
sioner appointed by a justice of the peace, or before a
justice of the peace taking a deposition to be used in a
court, not of record, of another state, or a territory of the
United States.
§ 3328. A justice of the peace, or a constable, juror,
or witness, before a justice of the peace, is not obliged to
render any service specified in this title, without the
previous payment or tender of his fee therefore.
§ 3329. In an action before a justice of the peace, if any
services are rendered for a parly, and he neglects to p-iy
the fees allowed therefore by law, the other party may pay
those fees, and the amount thereof must be taxed as part of
his costs, if he recovers costs.
§ 3330. The allowance of a fee, by this title, does not
apply to a case, where special provision is otherwise made
by statute for compensation for a particular service.
90N.Y. 581.
§ 3331. Where an officer has, when his title takes
effect, commenced the performance of a service, for which
a fee is allowed by the statutes heretofore in force, he is
entitled to the fee so allowed, for the completion of that
service, and he is not entitled to the fee for the same, or a
corresponding service, allowed by this title.
§ 3332. Except as otherwise expressly prescribed there
in, this title does not apply to a service rendered in a
criminal action or special proceeding, in a court, or before
an officer.
§3333. The +;;.rd "action", as used in the New
Revision of the Statutes, when applied to judicial proceed
ings, signifies an ordinary prosecution, in a court of justice,
by a party against another party, for the enforcement or
protection of aright, the redress or prevention of a wrong,
or the punishment of a public offense.
98 n.y. 336.
§ 3334. Every other prosecution by a party, for either
of the purposes specified in the last section, is a special pro
ceeding.
§ 3335. Actions are of two kinds :
1. Civil.
2. Criminal.
§ 3336. A criminal action is prosecuted by the people
of the State, as a party, against a person charged with a
puMic offense, for the punishment thereof.
§ 3337. Every otheV action is a civil action
y 8338. The party prosecuting a civil action is styled
the plaintifff • the adverse party is styled the defendant.
Q 3330. There is only one form of civil action. The
distinction between actions at law and suits in equity, and
forms of those actions and suits, have been abolished.
§ 3340. Each provision of this act, requiring the publi
cation of a summons, notice, or other paper, in one or
more newspapers, or authorizing or requiring a court, or a
judge, to designate one or more newspapers, in which such
a publication must be made, or requiring the posting of a
notice or other paper, is to be construed as not affecting
any special provision of the statutes] remaining unrepealed
after the former provision takes effect, prescribing one or
more particular newspapers, in which such a publication
must or may be made, or one or more particular places, in
which notices or other legal papers must or may be posted,
in a particular locality, or in a particular case.*
§ 3341. Each provision of this act is to be construed »a N.Y584.
as not affecting any special provision of the statutes, re
maining unrepealed after the former provision takes effect,
which is applicable exclusively to an action against the
mayor, aldermen, and commonalty of the city of New
York, including the recovery, entry, and collection of a
judgment in such an action.
§ 3342. Each provision of this act, conferring power
upon, or authorizing a proceeding to be taken at, a general,
special, or trial term, which is applicable to a county
court, is to be construed as applying to any term of the
county court, held pursuant to an appointment made as
prescribed by law.
§ 3343. In construing this act, the following rules must fl0 N.Y.ia
be observed, except where a contrary intent is expressly
declared in the provision to be cc/trued, or plainly ap
parent from the context thereof :
1. The " superior city courts " are, c actively, the court
of common pleas for the city and count} of New York, the
superior court of the city of New York, the superior court
of Buffalo, and the city court of Brooklyn.
2. The word, "mandate", includes a writ, process, or
other written direction, issued pursuant to law, out of a
court, or made pursuant to law, by a court, or a judge, or
a person acting as a judicial officer, and commanding a
court, board, or other body, or an officer, or other person,
named or otherwise designated therein, to do, or to refrain
from doing, an act therein specified.
3. The word, "judge", includes a justice, surrogate, re
corder, justice of the peace, or other judicial officer, au
thorized or required to act, or prohibited from acting, in or
with respect to the matter or thing, referred to in the pro
vision wherein that word is used.
4. The word, "clerk", signifies th i clerk of the court,
wherein the action or special proceeding is brought, or
* Set: L. 1884, c. 133, abolishing state paper,
wherein, or by whose authority, the act is to be done, whit.
is referred lo in the provision in which it is used. If tL
action or special proceeding is brought, or the act is to !>
done, in or by the authority of the supreme court, it as.
nifies the clerk of the county wherein the action or specie
proceeding is triable, or the act is to be done. *
5. The word, " report ", when used in connection withi
trial, or other inquiry, or a judgment, means a refereeV
report ; and the word, " decision", when used in the tamt
connection, means the decision of the court upon a hearing
or the trial of an issue, before the court without a jury.
6. The words, "real property", are co-extensive wit:
lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
7. The words, "personal property", include money
chattels, things in action, and evidences of debt. The
word, " chattel", is co-extensive with goods and chattels.
8. The word, "property", includes real and personal
property.
9. A " personal injury ", includes libel, slander, criminal
conversation, seduction, and malicious prosecution ; also an
assault, battery, false imprisonment, or other actionable
injury to the person either of the plaintifff, or of another.
10. An " injury to property " is an actionable act, whereDy ti)e estate of another is lessened, other than a personal
injury, or the breach of a contract.
11. The word, "affidavit", includes a verified pleading in
an action, or a verified petition or answer in a special pro
ceeding.
12. A warrant of attachment against property is said to
be " annulled", when the action, in which it was granted,
abates or is discontinued ; or a final judgment, rendeml
therein in favor of the plaintifff, is fully paid ; or a final
judgment is rendered therein in favor of the defendant
But, in the case last specified, a stay of proceedings sus
pends the effect of the annulment, and the reversal or
vacating of the judgment revives the warrant.
13. The term, " judgment creditor ", signifies the person
who is entitled to collect, or otherwise enforce, in his owd
right, a judgment for a sum of money, or directing th(
payment of a sum of money.
14. A " judgment creditor's action " is an action brought
as prescribed in article first of title fourth of chapter six
teenth of this act, or any other action, brought by a judg
ment creditor to aid the collection of a judgment for i
sum of money, or directing the payment of a sum of money
15. The words, " lunacy", and " lunatic", embrace evi-rj
description of unsoundness of mind, except idiocy.
16. A " distinct parcel " of real property is a part of the
property, which is or may be set off by boundary lines, as
distinguished from an undivided share or interest therein.
* For law regulating the clerk of the county of New York, MX
S§ 1719-173 i, Cousol. Act.
17. The word, " territory ", when applied to a portion of
the United States, without the State, includes the District
of Columbia.
18. A " domestic corporation " is a corporation created 52 Hun, 807.
by or under the laws of the State ; or located in the State, MState Rcd
and created by or under the laws of the United States, or
733;

by or pursuant to the laws, in force in the colony of New
York, before the 19th day of April, in the year seventeen
hundred and seventy-five. Every other corporation is a
"foreign corporation".
19. The terms, " trial juror ", and "trial jury", are re
spectively equivalent to the terms, "petit juror", and
" petit jury , as used in the Constitution and laws of the
State. The word, "notify", as used, with respect to pro
curing the attendance of a juror, is equivalent to the word,
"summon", as used in the like connection, in the same
Constitution and laws.
20. The word, " action ", refers to a civil action ; the
word, "judgment", to a judgment in such an action ; the
term, " special proceeding ", to a civil special proceeding ;
the word, "order", to an order made in such an action or
special proceeding ; the words, " an action of ejectment " to
an action to recover the immediate possession of real prop
erty.
21. Theterm, "public holiday", includes each of the fol
lowing days, to wit : the first day of January ; the twentysecond day of February ; the thirtieth day of May ; the
fourth day of July ; the twenty-fifth day of December ; un
less either of those days falls upon Sunday, and, in that
case, the next day thereafter ; also each general election
day ; and each day, appointed by the President of the United
States or the Governor of the State, as a day of general
thanksgiving, general fasting and prayer, or other general
religious observance.
22. Each of the words, ' ' now ", " heretofore ", and * ' here
after '', refers to the time when the provision containing it
takes effect.
23. Where an instrument, specified in this act, is described
as, or expressly required to be, written or printed, it may be
partly written and partly printed.
24. The word, "folio", signifies one hundred words,
counting as a word each figure necessarily employed.
§ 3344. This act constitutes a portion of the New Re
vision of the Statutes. It may be styled, in any act of the
legislature or proceeding in a court of justice, or wherever
it is otherwise referred to, " The Code of Civil Procedure."
§ 3345. The rule of the common law, that a statute in
derogation of the common law is strictly construed, does
not apply to this act.
§ 3346. Where it is prescribed, in a provision of this act,
that a person doing or omitting to do any act is guilty of a
particular crime, or, generally, of a misdemeanor, he shall
be punished therefore in the manner and to the extent, pre
scribed by the statutes remaining unrepealed after the pro
vision in question takes effect, for the punishment of the
crime so specified ; or for the punishment of a misdemeanor,
the punishment of which is not specially prescribed in the
statute defining it.
§ 3347. [Am'd 1881, 1882, 1883.] The application and
5'k xi k e^tct; °f certain portions of this act are declared and regu91 NY 235' late(l as follows ; except that, where a particular provision,
included within a chapter or a portion of a chapter, specified
in a subdivision of this section, expressly designates the
courts, persons, or proceedings, affected thereby ; that pro
vision is deemed excluded from the application and effect,
prescribed in the subdivision :
1. In chapter second, the prisoners referred to are civil
prisoners only, except that section 122, and article third_of
title second thereof, apply to all prisoners, civil or criminal.
2. In chapter third, sections 303, 304, 305 and 306, apply
to trial jurors upon the trial of an indictment or other crim
inal cause ; as prescribed in subdivision seventh of this sec
tion, with respect to the application of titles third and fourth
of chapter tenth, and as specified in the next two sections.
3. In chapter fifth, sections 446, 449, 450, 454, 455, and
458 to 468, both inclusive, apply to an action commenced,
in any court of the State on or after the first day of
September, 1877.
31 Hun, 514.
4. The remainder of chapter fifth, and the whole of
20 Abb. N.' chapter sixth, apply only to an action commenced, on or
N. 893.
after the first day of September, 1877, in the supreme court,
a superior city court, the marine court of the city of New
York, or a county court.
5. Chapter seventh, excluding section 548, and articles
first and second of title fourth thereof, applies only to an
action, in one of the courts specified in subdivision fourth
of this section, in which an application for an order of
arrest, an Injunction order, or a warrant of attachment
against property, is made, on or after the first day of Sep
tember, 1877. Articles first and second of title fourth of
that chapter apply only to proceedings taken, in one of
those courts, on or after that date.
G. Chapter eight applies only to the proceedings taken on
or after the first day of September, 1877, in an action or
special proceeding in one of the courts specified in sub
division fourth of this section; except that sections 721,
723, 724 to 727, both inclusive, and 817 to 819, both in
clusive, apply to all courts of record ; sections 728, 729,
730, 749, 787, 788, 810, to 816, both inclusive, and 826, to
proceedings, ta'icn on or after that day, in any court or
before any officer or body ; and sections 723, 764, 765, 785,
789, 790 and 825, to all courts.
7. In chapter tenth, titles first, second, and sixth, and
article second of title fifth, apply only to proceedings taken,
on or after the first day of September, 1877, in one of the
courts specified in subdivision fourth of this section. Titles
third and fourth, and article first of title fifth, of that
chapter apply only to jurors drawn for, and juries formed
at, a term of a court commencing not less than twenty days
after the first day of May, 1877. Subject to that qualifica
tion, they apply to jurors selected under the statutes,
remaining unrepealed after that day, and the lists and
ballots prepared accordingly ; until new jurors are selected,
and new lists and ballots are prepared, as prescribed in
those titles. The same portions of chapter tenth, excluding
article third of title third, apply equally to a criminal and
a civil action or special proceeding, and to a court of
criminal and a court of civil jurisdiction. But title third
does not affect any special provision of law, remaining
unrepealed after the first day of May, 1877, whereby trial
jurors are directed to be procured, for a particular court of
record, from a particular locality ; or whereby a county is
divided into two or more jury districts, and the selecting,
drawing, summoning, or attendance of jurors from the
particular locality, or the different jury districts, is regu
lated. Each of those provisions becomes applicable to and
affects the selecting, drawing, notifying, or attendance of
jurors, as prescribed in that title, in like manner as it ap
plied to and affected the statutes previously in force, upon
the same subject. So much of the provisions of title fourth,
as relates to the remission or enforcement of a fine imposed
upon a trial juror, applies to a fine imposed upon a grand
juror, as prescribed in the statutes remaining unrepealed,
after the first day of May, 1877.
8. In chapter eleventh, articles first and second of title
first, and the whole of title third, apply only to proceedings
in one of the courts specified in subdivision fourth of this
section, taken on or after the first day of September, 1877.
But where an action has been commenced in either of those
courts, before that date, a judgment by default must bg taken therein, as prescribed by the itatutes in force on the
thirty-first day of August, 1877.
9. Chapter twelfth does not affect the statutes remaining
unrepealed after the first day of September, 1877, touching
the review of proceedings in a criminal cause.
10. Chapter thirteenth applies only to an execution issued,
on or after the first day of September, 1877, out of a court
of record, other than an execution issued out of such a
court, and directed, pursuant to law, to a constable or
marshal; and to sales and other proceedings, by virtue of
an execution directed to a sheriff, and delivered to him,
after that date. Sections 1413 and 1414, and sections 1417
to 1427, both inclusive, apply only to a case where such an
execution is issued out of one of the courts specified in sub
division fourth of this section ; or where a warrant of at
tachment against property is granted on or after that date,
in an action brought in one of those courts. Title third of
that chapter applies only to an execution, issued upon a
judgment rendered in one of those courts.
11. So much of chapters fourteenth, fifteenth, sixteenth,
seventeenth, eighteenth, nineteenth and twentieth as regu'ate t'le proceedings to be taken in an action or special proceeding, and the effect thereof, applies only to an action or
a special proceeding commenced on or after the first day of
September, 1880. And all appeals taken from any order,
sentence, decree, or determination of a surrogate s court,
made or entered in such court on or after the first day of
September, 1880, in any matter or proceeding pending or
undetermined in such court, on the first day of September,
1880 ; and all appeals to the Court of appeals from any
order or judgment of the supreme court, affirming, revers
ing or modifying any such order, sentence, decree, or deter
mination of a surrogate's court shall betaken and perfected,
heard and decided in conformity to the laws and practice
regulating appeals from orders, sentences and decrees of
surrogate's court, and the hearing and decision thereof, in
force in this state on the thirtieth day of April, 1877 ; and
all appeals from any order, sentence, decree, or determina
tion of such court, brought in conformity thereto, since the
first of September, 1880, are hereby declared to be valid
and effectual, except that seclions 1670 to 1685, both inclu
sive, apply also to the proceedings therein specified, taken,
after that date, in an action theretofore commenced, or upon
a judgment theretofore rendered, and section 1674 applies
to a notice of pendency of action theretofore or thereafter
filed •, sections 1881 to 1892, both inclusive, do not apply to
an action upon any bond, therein specified, where an order,
allowing any person to prosecute the bond in the name of
the people, lias been duly made before that date and is then
in force, in which case future actions upon the same bond
are regulated by the laws in force on the day before that
date, notwithstanding the repeal thereof ; sections 2181 to
2187, both inclusive, 2197 to 2199, both inclusive, and 2213 to 2218, both inclusive, apply also to a case where a dis
charge is thereafter granted ; and sections 2228 to 22S0,
both inclusive, apply also to trustees theretofore or there
after appointed in proceedings taken under any statute
superseded by the title containing those sections ; sections
2253 to 2265, both inclusive, apply also where a final deter
mination has been made before the first day of September,
1880, in proceedings taken under any statute superseded by
the title containing those sections, and to the process issued
thereupon ; sections 2320 to 2344, both inclusive, apply also
to proceedings taken, before that date, under any statute,
superseded by the title containing them, whether a com
mittee has or has not been appointed ; section 2537 applies
also to every payment or deposit therein specified, made on
or after the first day of September, 1880 ; and sections 2798
to 2801, both inclusive, apply also to a case where a de
cree for the sale or other disposition of the real property of
a decedent has been duly made before that date, in a surro
gate's court.
12. So much of chapters nineteenth and twentieth, as re
lates to the jurisdiction of the several courts therein
specified, applies only to an action or special proceeding
commenced on or after the first day of September, 1880.
13. In chapter twenty-first, titles first, second and third 81 Ban.su
apply only to an action in one of the courts specified in sub- 8 D«m- *•'>*
division fourth of this section.
§ 3348. Where a provision of this act is made applicable
by the last section, to an action or a special proceeding
commenced on or after a day therein specified, if, before
that date, a summons in an action, or a citation issued from
a surrogate's court, has been served upon one or more, but
not upon all, of the persons to be served ; or an order for
the service of a summons as prescribed in article second of
title first of chapter fifth of this act has been made ; or, in
a special proceeding, elsewhere than in a surrogate's court,
the petition or other paper, upon which the first order, pro
cess, or other mandate may be made or issued, has not been
presented, the action or special proceeding is not deemed to
have been commenced within the meaning of that section.
§ 3349. Where any provision of this act is made applic
able to future proceedings in an action or special proceed
ing, the proceedings therein, until the provision in question
becomes applicable, are governed by, and must be con
ducted according to the laws in force on the day before the
provision takes effect, except as otherwise prescribed in
subdivision seventh of the last section but one.
§ 3350. A jury, for the trial of an indictment or other
criminal cause, at a term of a court of record, commencing
on or after the twenty-first day of May, eighteen hundred
and seventy-seven, must be procured from the trial jurors
selected, drawn, and notified, as prescribed in this act, for
the term of the court at which it is triable, including the talesman or additional jurors, procured as prescribed there
in ; and the same must be tried by the jury so formed.
But the statutes remaining unrepealed after the first day of
September, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven, relating
to challenges or disqualifications of petit jurors in a criminal
cause, or prescribing the cases where talesmen or additional
petit jurors must be summoned in a criminal cause, remain
unaffected by this act, and are applicable to the proceed
ings taken as prescribed in this act, and to the trial jurors
therein specified.
§3351. This act does not affect any provision of the
statutes, remaining unrepealed after the first day of Sep
tember, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven relating to
grand jurors or grand juries ; except as follows :
1. A fine imposed, after the first day of September,
eighteen hundred and seventy-seven upon a person drawn
as a grand juror, and duly summoned to attend a term of
a court of record as a grand juror, as prescribed in those
statutes, must be imposed as prescribed in article fourth
of title third of chapter tenth of this act ; and sections
one thousand and seventy-three to one thousandand seventyseven of this act, both inclusive, apply to such a person,
as if he had been drawn, and notified to attend, as a trial
juror.
2. Where a provision of those statutes refers to the lists
of petit jurors, the ballots containing their names, the box
or boxes in which those ballots are deposited or contained,
the selecting, drawing, summoning, or empannelling of
petit jurors, the imposition of a fine upon a petit juror,
or the enforcement, reduction, or remission thereof, it is
deemed to refer to the same subject, as provided for in
this act, in like manner as it refers to those statutes.
§ 3352. Nothing contained in any provision of this
act, other than in chapter fourth, renders ineffectual, or
otherwise impairs, any proceeding in an action or a special
proceeding, had, or taken, pursuant to law, or any other
lawful act done, or right, defense, or limitation, lawfully
accrued or established, before the provision in question
lakes effect; unless the contrary is expressly declared in the
provision in question. As far as it may be necessary, for
the purpose of avoiding such a result, or carrying into effect
such a proceeding or other act, or enforcing or protecting
such a right, defense, or limitation, the statutes in force on
the day before the provision takes effect, are deemed to ?emain in force, notwithstanding the repeal thereof.
§ 3353. This act does not affect the appointment of a
term, or the designation of one or more judges to hold a
term, made pursuant to the statutes in force on the thirty-first
day of August, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven until
new terms are appointed, or one or more judges eyre acielj
designated, as prescribed in this act.
§ 3354. This act does not create a vacancy in any c or employment, designated or referred to therein, by the
title or description thereof, contained in the statutes in
force ofi the day before the provision referring thereto takes
effect, or by another title or description ; nor does it affect
any provision of those statutes, relating to the amount, or
the time or the mode of payment, of the compensation of
an officer or employee, so designated or referred to, who is
in office or employed on that day : except that where the
tenure of his office or employment is not prescribed in this
act, he may be removed at pleasure by the court, officer, or
officers, authorized by this act to appoint a person to dis
charge the same duties. Until he is removed, or his office
or place becomes otherwise vacant, the provisions of this
act apply to him, and to the discharge of his duties. The
court, officer, or officers, authorized by this act to appoint a
person to an office or employment, may from time to time
fill a vacany therein.
§ 3355. [Am'd 1882.] For the purpose of determining
the effect of the different provisions of this act withrerpect
to each other, they are de( med to have been enacted simul
taneously. For the purpose of determining the effect of
this act upon other acts, and the effect of other acts upon
this act, chapters fourteen to twenty-two of this act, both
inclusive, are deemed to have been enacted on the twelfth
day of January, in the year eighteen hundred and eighty ;
and all acts passed after the last-mentioned date are to have
the same effect as if they were passed after those chapters.
§ 3356. Subject to the qualifications contained in the
foregoing sections of this title, this act shall take effect as
follows : titles third and fourth, and article first of title fifth
o* chapter tenth, on the first day of May, in the year
eighteen hundred and seventy-seven ; the remainder of
chapters first to thirteenth, both inclusive, on the first day
of September, in the year eighteen hundred and seventyseven ; chapters fourteenth to twenty-first, both inclusive, on
the first day of September, eighteen hundred and eighty ;
and this chapter immediately.
§ 3357. This title shall be known as the condemnation
law.
§ 3358. The term " person ", when used herein, includes
a corporation, joint stock association, the state and a politi
cal division thereof, as well as a natural person ; the term
"real property ", any right, interest or easement therein or
appurtenance thereto ; and the term "owner", all persons
having any estate, interest or easement in the property to
be taken, or any lien, charge or encumbrance thereon. The
person instituting the proceedings shall be termed the plain
tiff ; and the person against whom the proceeding is brought,
the defendant.
§ 3359. Whenever any person is authorized to acquire
title to real property, for a public use, by condemnation,
the proceeding for that purpose shall be taken in the man
ner prescribed in this title.
§ 3360. The proceeding shall be instituted by the pre
sentation of a petition by the plaintifff to the supreme court
setting forth the following facts :
1. His name, place of residence, and the business in which
engaged ; if a corporation or joint stock association, whether
foreign or domestic, its principal place of business within
the State, the Dames and places of residence of its principal
officers, and of its directors, trustees or board of managers,
as the case may be, and the object or purpose of its incor
poration or association ; if a political division of the state,
the names and places of residence of its principal officers;
and if the state, the name and place of residence of the
officer acting in its behalf in the proceeding.
2. A specific description of the property to be con
demned and its location, by metes and bounds, with rea
sonable certainty.
8. The public use for 'which the property is required, and
a concise statement of the facts showing the necessity of its
acquisition for such use.
4. The names and places of residence of the owners of
the property ; if an infant, the name and place of residence
of his general guardian, if he has one; if not, the name
and place of residence of the person with whom he resides;
if a lunatic, idiot, or habitual drunkard, the name and
place of residence of his committee or trustee, if he has one;
if not, the name and place of residence of the person with
whom he resides. If a non-resident, having an agent or
attorney residing in the state authorized to contract for the
sale of the property, the name and place of residence of such
agent or attorney ; if the name or place of residence of
any owner can not after diligent inquiry be ascertained, it
may be so stated with a specific statement of the extent of
the inquiry which has been made.
5. That the plaintifff has been unable to agree with the
owner of the property for its purchase and the reason of
such inability.
6. The value of the property to be condemned.
7. A statement that it is the intention of the plaintifff, in
good faith, to complete the work or improvement, for which
the property is to be condemned ; and that all the pre
liminary steps required by law have been taken to entitle
him to institute the proceeding.
8. A demand for relief, that it may be adjudged that the
public use requires the condemnation of the real property
described, and that the plaintifff is entitled to take and hold
such property for the public use specified, upon making
compensation therefore, and that commissioners of appraisal
be appointed to ascertain the compensation to be made to
the owners for the property so taken.
§ 3361. There must be annexed to the petition a notice
of the time and place at whjch it will be presented to a
special term of the supreme court, held in the judicial dis
trict where the property, or some portion of it, is situated,
and a copy of the petition and notice must be served upon
all the owners of the property at least eight days prior to
its presentation.
§ 3362. Service of the petition and notice must be made
in the same manner as the service of a summons in an ac
tion in the supreme court is required to be made, and all
the provisions of articles one and two of title one of chap
ter five of this act, which relate to the service of a summons,
either personally or in any other way, and the mode of
proving service, shall apply to the service of the petition
and notice. If the defendant has an agent or attorney re
siding ia this state, authorized to contract for the sale of the real property described in the petition, service upon such
agent or attorney will be sufficient service upon such de
fendant. In case the defendant is an infant of the ag
of fourteen years or upwards, a copy of the petition and
notice shall also be served upon his general guardian, if he
has one ; if not, upon the person with whom he resides.
§ 3363. If a defendant is an infant, idiot, lunatic or
habitual drunkard, it shall be the duty of his general guar
dian, committee or trustee, if he has one, to appear for him
upon the presentation of the petition and attend to his in
terests, and in case he has none, or in case his general guar
dian, committee or trustee fails to appear for him, the court
shall, upon the presentation of the petition and notice, with
proof of service, without further notice, appoint a guardian
ad litem for such defendant, whose duty it shall be to ap
pear for him and attend to his interests in the proceeding,
and, if deemed necessary to protect his rights, the court
may require a general guardian, committee or trustee, or a
guardian ad litem, to give security in such sum and with
such sureties as the court may approve. If a service other
than personal has been made upon any defendant, and he
does not appear upon the presentation of the petition, the
court shall appoint some competent attorney to appear for
him and attend to his interests in the proceeding.
g 3364. The provisions of law and of the rules and
practice of the court, relating to the appearance of parties
in person or by attorney in actions in the supreme court,
shall apply to the proceeding from and after the service of
the petition, and all subsequent orders, notices and papers
may be served upon the attorney appearing and upon a
guardian ad litem in the same manner and with the same
effect as the service of papers in an action in the supreme
court may be made.
§ 3365. Upon presentation of the petition and notice,
with proof of service thereof, an owner of the properly may
appear and interpose an answer, which must contain a gen
eral or specific denial of each material allegation of the pe
tition controverted by him, or of any knowledge or infor
mation thereof sufficient to form a belief, or a statement of
new matter constituting a defense to the proceeding.
§ 3366. A petition or answer must be verified, and the
provisions of this act relating to the form and contents of
the verification of pleadings in courts of record, and the
persons by whom it may be made, shall apply to the verifi
cation.
§ 3367. The court shall try any issue raised by the peti
tion and answer at such time and place as it may direct, or
it may order the same to be referred to a referee to hear and
determine, and upon such trial the court or referee shall file
a decision in writing, or deliver the same to the attorney
for the prevailing party, within twenty days after the final
submission of the proofs and allegations of the parties, and the provisions of this act relating to the form and contents
of decisions upon the trial of issues of fact by the court or
a referee, and to making and filing exceptions thereto, and
the making and settlement of a case for the review thereof
upon appeal, and to the proceedings which may be uad, in
case such decision is not filed or delivered within the time
herein required, and to the powers of the court and referee
upon such trial, shall be applicable to a trial and decision
undo? this title.
§ S3G8. The provisions of title one of chapter eight of
this act shall also apply to proceedings had under this title.
§ 3S69. Judgment shall be entered pursuant to the di
rection of the court or referee in the decision filed. If in
favor of the defendant the petition shall be dismissed with
costs, to be taxed by the clerk at the same rates as are al
lowed of course to a defendant prevailing in an action in
the supreme court, including the allowances for proceed
ings before and after notice of trial. If the decision is in
favor of the plaintifff, or if no answer has been interposed and
it appears from the petition that he is entitled to the relief
demanded, judgment shall be entered, adjudging that the
condemnation of the real property described is necessary
for the public use, and that the plaintifff is entitled to
take and hold the property for the public use specified,
upon making compensation therefore, and the court shall
thereupon appoint three disinterested and competent free
holders, residents of the county where the real property, or
some part of it, is situated, or of some adjoining county,
commissioners to ascertain the compensation to be made to
the owners for the property to be taken for the public use
specified, and fix the time and place for the first meeting of
the commissioners. If a trial has been had, at least eight
days notice of such appointment must be given to all de
fendants who have appeared.
§ 3370. The commissioners shall take and subscribe the
constitutional oath of office. Any of them may issue sub]venas and administer oaths to witnesses ; a majority of
tlu'in may adjourn the proceeding before them, from time
to time, in their discretion. Whenever they meet, except
by appointment of the court or pursuant to adjournment,
they shall cause at least eight days notice of such meeting
to be given to the defendants who have appeared, or their
agents or attorneys. They shall view the premises described
in the petition, and hear the proofs and allegations of the
parties, and reduce the testimony taken by them, if any, to
wiitine, and after the testimony in each case is closed, they,
or a majority of them, all being present, shall, without un
necessary delay ascertain and determine the compensation
which ought justly to be made by the plaintifff to the owners
of the property appraised by them ; and, in fixing the
amount of such compensation, they shall not make any al
lowance or deduction on account of any real or supposed benefits which the owners may derive from the public use,
for which the property is to be taken, or the construction
of any proposed improvement connected with such public
use. But in case the plaintifff is a railroad corporation and
such real property shall belong to any other railroad cor
poration, the commissioners, on fixing the amount of such
compensation, shall fix the same at its fair value for railroad
purpose*. They shall make a report of their proceedings
to the supreme court with the minutes of the testimony
taken by them, if any ; and they shall each be entitled tosix
dollars for services, for every day they are actually engaged
in the performance of their duties, and their necessary ex
penses, to be paid by the plaintifff.
§ S371. Upon filing the report of the commissioners,
any party may move for its confirmation at a special term,
held in the district where the property, or some part of it,
is situated, upon notice to the other parties who have ap
peared, and upon such motion the court may confirm the
report, or may set it aside for irregularity, or for error
of law in the proceedings before the commissioners, or upon
the ground that the award is excessive or insufficient. If
the report is set aside, the court may direct a rehearing be
fore the same commissioners, or may appoint new commis
sioners for that purpose, and the proceedings upon such
rehearing shall be conducted in the manner prescribed for
the original hearing, and the same proceedings shall be had
for the confirmation of the second repoit, as are herein
prescribed for the confirmation of the first report. If the
report is confirmed, the court shall enter a final order in the
proceeding, directing that compensation shall be made to
the owners of the property, pursuant to the determination
of the commissioners, and that upon payment of such
compensation, the plaintifff shall be entitled to enter into
the possession of the property condemned, and take and
hold it for the public use specified in the judgment. De
posit of the money to the credit of. or payable to the order
of, the owner, pursuant to the direction of the court, shall
be deemed a payment within the provisions of this title.
§ 3372. In all cases where the owner is a resident and
not under legal disability to convey title to real property,
the plaintifff, before service of hii petition and notice, may
make a written offer to p jrchaso the property at a specified
price, which must within ten days thereafter be filed in the
office of the clerk of the county where the property is
situated ; and which can not be given in evidence before
the commissioners, or considered by them. The owner
may at the time of the presentation of the petition, or at
any time previously, serve notice in writing of the accept
ance of plaintifff's offer, and thereupon the plaintifff may,
upon filing the petition, with proof of the making of the
offer and its acceptanc ', enter an order that upon payment
of the compensation agreed upon he may enter into possession of the real property described in the petition, and
take and hold it for the public use therein specified. If the
offer is not accepted, and the compensation awarded by the
commissioners does not exceed the amount of the offer,
with interest from the time it was made, no costs shall be
allowed to either party. If the compensation awarded shall
exceed the amount of the offer, with interest from the time
it was made, or if no offer was made, the court shall, in the
final order, direct that the defendant recover of the plain
tiff the costs of the proceeding, to be taxed by the clerk, at
the same rate as is allowed, of course, to the defendant
when he is the prevailing party in an action in the supreme
court, including the allowances for proceedings before and
nfter notice of trial, and the court may also grant an addilional allowance of costs, not exceeding five per centum
i pon the amount awarded. The court shall also direct in
tne final order what sum shall be paid to the general or
special guardian, or committee or trustee of an infant, idiot,
lunatic or habitual drunkard, or to an attorney appointed
by the court to attend to the interests of any defendant
upon whom other than personal service of the petition and
notice may have been made, and who has not appeared, for
co ts, expenses and counsel fees, and by whom or out of
what fund the same shall be paid. If a trial has been had,
and all the issues determined in favor of the plaintifff, costs
of the trial shall not be allowed to the defendant, but the
plaintifff shall recover of any defendant answering, the costs
of such trial caused by the interposition of the unsuccessful
defense, to be taxed by the clerk at the same rate as is
allowed to the prevailing party for the trial of an action in
the supreme court.
§ 3373. Upon the entry of the final order, the same
shall be attached to the judgment roll in the proceeding,
and the amount directed to be paid, either as compensation
to the owners, or for the costs or expenses of the proceed
ing, shall be docketed as a judgment against the person
who is directed to pay the same, and it shall have all the
force and effect of a money judgment in an action in the
supreme court, and collection thereof may be enforced by
execution and by the same proceeding as judgments for the
recovery of money in the supreme court may be enforced
under the provisions of this act. When payment of the
compensation awarded, and costs of the proceeding, if any,
lias been made, as directed in the final order, and a certified
copy of such order has been served upon the owner, he
shall, upon demand of the plaintifff, deliver possession
thereof to him, and in case possession is not delivered when
demanded, the court shall require notice to be given, upon
proof of such payment and of service of the copy order,
, and of the demand and non compliance therewith, for a
I writ of assistance, and the court shall thereupon cause such
writ to be issued, which shall be executed ia the same manner as when issued in other cases for the delivery of pos
session of real property.
6 3374. Within thirty days after the entry of the final
order the plaintifff may abandon the proceeding, by filing
and serving a written notice of his determination to do so,
and paying the fees and expenses of the commissioners, and
the costs and expenses directed to be paid in such order;
and thereupon payment of the amount awarded for com
pensation shall not be enforced, but in such case the plain
tiff shall not renew proceedings to acquire title to such lands
or any part thereof without a tender or deposit in court of
the amount of the award and interest thereon.
§ 3375. Appeal may be taken to the general term of the
supreme court from the final order, within the time pro
vided for appeals from orders by title four of chapter twelve
of this act ; and all the provisions of such chapter relating
to appeals to the general term from orders of the special
term shall apply to such appeals. Such appeal will bring
up for review all the proceedings subsequent to the judg
ment, but the judgment and proceedings antecedent thereto
may be reviewed on such appeal, if the appellant states in
his notice that the same will be brought up for review, and
exceptions shall have been filed to the decision of the court
or the referee, and a case or a case and exceptions shall
have been made, settled and allowed, as required by the
provisions of this act, for the review of the trial of actions
in the supreme court without a jury. The proceedings of
the plaintifff shall not be stayed upon such an appeal, except
by order of the court, upon notice to him, and the appeal
shall not affect his possession of the property taken, and the
appeal of a defendant shall not be heard except on his
stipulation not to disturb such possession.
§ 3376. If a trial has been had and judgment entered in
favor of the defendant, the plaintifff may appeal therefrom
to the general term within the time provided for appeals
from judgments by title four of chapter twelve of this act,
and all the provisions of such chapter relating to appeals
from judgments shall apply to such appeals ; and on the
hearing of the appeal the general term may affirm, reverse
or modify the judgment, and in case of reversal may grant
a new trial, or direct that judgment be entered in favor of
the plaintifff. If the judgment is affirmed, costs shall be
al'owed to the respondent, but if reversed or modified, no
costs of the appeal shall be allowed to either party.
§ 3377. On the hearing of the appeal from the final or
der the court may direct a new appraisal before the sanieor
new commissioners, in its discretion, and the report of such
commissioners shall be final and conclusive upon all parties
interested. If the amount of the compensation to be paid
Is increased by the last report, the difference shall be a lien
upon the land appraised, and shall be paid to the parties en
titled to the same, or shall be deposited as the court shall direct ; and if the amount is diminished, the difference shall
be refunded to the plaintifff by the party to whom tho same
may have been paid, and judgment therefore may be ren
dered by the court, on the filing of the last report, against
the parties liable to pay the same.
§ 3378. If there are adverse and conflicting claimants
to the money, or any part of it, to be paid as compensation
for the property taken, the court may direct the money to
be paid into the court by the plaintifff, and may determine
who is entitled to the same, and direct to whom the same
shall be paid, and may, in its discretion, order a reference
to ascertain the facts on which such determination and direc
tion are to be made.
§ 3379. At any stage of the proceeding the court may
authorize the plaintifff, if in possession of the property sought
to be condemned, to continue in possession, and may stay
nil actions or proceedings against him on account thereof,
upon giving security, or depositing such sum of money as
the court may direct to be held as security for the payment
of the compensation which may be finally awarded to the
owner therefore and the costs of the proceeding, and in every
such case the owner may conduct the proceeding to a con
clusion, if the plaintifff delays or neglects to prosecute the
same.
§ 3380. When an ansver to the petition has been inter
posed, and it appears to the satisfaction of the court that
the public interests will be prejudiced by delay, it may direct
that the plaintifffs be permitted to enter immediately upon
the real property to be taken, and devote it temporarily to
the public use specified in the petition, upon depositing with
the court the sum stated in the answer as the value of the
property, and which sum shall be applied, so far as it may
be necessary for that purpose, to the payment of the award
that may be made, and the costs and expenses of the pro
ceeding, and the residue, if any, returned to the plaintifff,
and, in case the petition should be dismissed, or no award
should be made, or the proceedings should be abandoned
by the plaintifff, the court shall direct that the money so de
posited, so far as it may be necessary, shall be applied to
the payment of any damages which the defendant may
have sustained by such entry upon and use of his property,
and his costs and expenses of the proceeding, such damages
to be ascertained by the court, or a referee to be appointed
for that purpose, and if the sum so deposited shall be in
sufficient to p;iy such damages, and all costs and expenses
awarded to the defendant, judgment shall be entered
against the plaintifff for the deficiency, to be enforced and
collected in the same manner as a judgment in the supreme
court ; and the possession of the property shall be restored
to the defendant.
§ 3381. Upon service of the petition, orat any time after
wards before the entry of the final order, the plaintifff may file in the clerk's office of each county where any part of
the property is situated, a notice of the pendency of the
proceeding stating the names of the parties and the object
of the proceeding, and containing a brief description of the
property affected thereby, and from the time of filing, such
notice shall be constructive notice to a purchaser, or in
cumbrancer of the property affected thereby, from or
against a defendant- with respect to whom the notice is di
rected to be indexed, as herein prescribed, and a person
whose conveyance or encumbrance is subsequently
executed or subsequently recorded, is bound by ail
proceedings taken in the proceeding, after the filing
of the notice, to the same extent as if he was a party
thereto. The county clerk must immediately record such
notice when filed in the book in his office kept for the
purpose of recording notices of pendency of actions, and
index it to the name of each defendant specified in the di
rection appended at the foot of the notice, ana subscribed
by the plaintifff or his attorney.
§ 3382. In all proceedings under this title, where the
mode or manner of conducting all or any of the proceed
ings therein is not expressly provided for by law, the court
before whom such proceedings may be pending, shall have
the power to make all necessary orders and give
necessary directions to carry into effect the object and
intent of this title, and of the several acts con
ferring authority to condemn lands for public use,
and the practice in such cases shall conform, as near as
may be, to the ordinary practice in such court.
§ 3383. [Am'd 1890]. So much of all acts and parts of
acts as prescribe a method of procedure in proceedings for
the condemnation of real property for a public use is re
pealed, except such acts and parts of acts as prescribe a
method of procedure for the condemnation of real property
for public use as a highway, or as a street, avenue, or pub
lic place in an incorporated city or village, or as may pre
scribe methods of procedure for such condemnation for
any public use for, by, on behalf, on the part, or in the
name of the corporation of the city of New York, known
as the mayor, aldermen, and commonalty of the city of New
York, or by whatever name known, or by or on the appli
cation of any board, department, commissioners or other
officers acting for or on behalf or in the name of such cor
poration or city, or where the title to the real property so
to be acquired vests in such corporation or in such city ;
and all proceedings for the condemnation of real property
embraced in the exceptions enumerated in this sec
tion, are exempted from the operation of this title.
§ 8384. This title shall take effect on the first day of
May, one thousand eight hundred and ninety, and shall not
affect any proceeding previously commenced,
§ S390. Whenever any corporation or joint stock
association is required by law to make application to the
court for leave to mortgage, lease or sell its real estate, the
proceeding therefore shall be had pursuant to the provisions
of this title.
§ 339 1. The proceeding shall be instituted by the presi ntation to the supreme court of the district or the county
court of the county where the real property, or some part
of it, is situated, by the corporation or association, applicant,
of a petition setting forth the following facts :
1 . The name of the corporation or association, and of Its
directors, trustees or managers, and of its principal officers,
and their places of residence.
2. The business of the corporation or association, or the
object or purpose of its incorporation or formation, and a
reference to the statute under whiclijt was incorporated or
formed.
3. A description of the real property to be sold, mortgaged
or leased, by metes and bounds, with reasonable certainty.
4. That the interests of the corporation or association
will be promoted by the sale, mortgage or lease, of the real
property specified, and a concise statement of the reasons
therefore.
6. That such sale, mortgage or lease has been authorized,
by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors, trustees or
managers of the corporation or association, at a meeting
thereof, duly called and held, and a copy of the resolution
granting such authority.
6. The market value of the remaining real property of
the corporation or association, and the cash value of its per
sonal assets, and the total amount of its debts and liabilities,
and how secured, if at all.
7. The application proposed to be made of the monies
realized from such sale, mortgage or lease.
8. Where the consent of the shareholders, stockholders
or members of the corporation or association, is required by
law to be first obtained, a statement that such consent has
been given, and a copy of the consent or a certified tran
script of the record of the meeting at which it was given,
shall be annexed to the petition.
9. A demand for leave to mortgage, lease or sell the real
estate described.
The petition shall be verified in the same manner aa
verified pleading in an action in a court of record.
§ 3302. Upon the presentation of the petition, thecoui
may immediately proceed to hear the application, oritmav
in its discretion, direct that notice of the application shil
be given to any person interested therein, as a membet
stockholder, officer or creditor of the corporation or asso
ciation, or otherwise, in which case the application shall In
heard at the time and place specified in such notice, ant
the court may in any case appoint a referee to take tfal
proofs and report the same to the court, with his opinioi
thereon.
§ 3393. Upon the hearing of the application; if it shaS
appear, to the satisfaction of the court, that the interests o!
the corporation or association will be promoted thereby, ai
order may be granted authorizing it to sell, mortgagee;
lease the real property described in the petition, or an;
part thereof, for such sum, and upon such terms as tin
court may prescribe, and directing what disposition shall
be made of the proceeds of such sale, mortgage or lease
Any person, whose interests may be affected by the pro
ceeding, may appear upon the hearing and show cause
why the application should not be granted.
§ 3394. If the corporation or association is insolvent, or
its property and assets are insufficient to fully liquidate its
debts and liabilities, the application shall net be granted.
unless all the creditors of the corporation have been served
with a notice of the time and place at which the application
will be heard.
§ 3396. Service of notices, provided for in this title,
may be made either personally, or, in case of absence, b;
leaving the same at the place of residence of the person t
be served, with some person of mature age and discretion
at least eight days before the hearing of the application, or
by mailing the same, duly enveloped and addressed and
postage paid, at least sixteen days before such hearing.
§ 3396. In all applications made under this title, wher?
the mode or manner of conducting any or all of the pro
ceedings thereon are not expressly provided for, the court
before whom such application may be pending, shall ha«
the power to make all necessary orders and give the proper
directions to carry into effect the object and intent of w
title, or of any act authorizing the sale of corporate real
property, and the practice in such cases shall conform, a*
near as may be, to the ordinary practice in such court
§ 3397. This title shall take effect May first, one thou
sand eight hundred and ninety, and shall not affect any
proceeding previously commenced.

