AN ACT RELATING TO COURTS, OFFICERS OF
JUSTICE, AND CIVIL PROCEEDINGS.

The People Q)’ the State of New York, rwresented in Senate
and Assembly, do enact as follows .- '

CHAPTER I.

GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO COURTS, AND
THE MEMBERS AND OFFICERS THEREOF.

TITLE I.—-THE coURTs 012' THE STATE; THEIR GENERAL POWERS
AND ATrRn3UTEs, AND GENERAL REGULATIONS PERTAINING To THE ExERoIsE THEREOF.

TITLE II. — PRovIsIoNs or GENERAL APPLICATION, RELATING To THE
JUDGES, AND GERTAIN OTHER OFFICERS on THE coURTs.

. TITLE I.

The oowrts of the State; their general powers and attributes.
and general regulations pertaining to the exercise thereof.

ARTICLE 1. Enumeration and classification.
2. General powers and attributes of the courts.

8. Miscellaneous provisions relating to the sittings of the courts.

ARTICLE FIRST.

Enuunrwrron AND Cmssmrcunox.

BBC. 1. Courts.
2. Courts of record enumerated.

3. Courts not of record.
4. General provision as to jurisdiction, etc.

§ 1. The courts referred to in this act, are enumerated
in the next two sections.

§ 2. Each of the following courts of the State is a court
of record:

1. The court for the trial of impeachments.

2._ The court of appeals.

3. The supreme court.

‘A circuit court in each county.
A court of oyer and terminer in each county.
. The court of common pleas for the city and county
— of N eW-York.
7. The superior court of the city of New-York.
. The court of general sessions of the peace in and for
the city and county of N eW-York.
9. The superior court of Buffalo.

10. The city court of Brooklyn.

11. The city court of Long-Island City.

12. The city court of Yonkers.

13. A county court in each county, except New-York.
14. A court of sessions in each county, except New-York.
15. The marine court of the city of New-York.

16. The mayor’s court of the city of Hudson.

00 °°.°‘!'°‘

17. The rec-order’s court of the city of Utica.
18. The recorder’s court of the city of Oswego.
19. The justices’ court of the city of Albany.
20. The justices’ court of the city of Troy.

§ 3. Each of the following courts of State is a court not
of record: ° i

1. A surrogate’s court in each county.

2. Courts of justices of the peace in each town, and in
certain cities and villages.

3. Courts of special sessions of the peace in each town,
and in certain cities and villages.

4. The district courts in the city of New-York.
5. The police courts in certain cities and villages.

§ 4. Each of those courts shall continue to exercise the
jurisdiction and powers now vested in it by law, and according to the course ‘and practice of the court, except as otherwise prescribed in this act.

ARTICLE SECOND.

Gmunmu. Pownns AND A1-rnrnuwns or ran Cotmrl.

SEO. 5. The sittings of courts to be public.
6. Courts not to sit on Sunday, except in special cases.

7. General powers of courts of record.

8. Criminal contempts dedned.

9. Punishment for criminal contempts.
10. Such contempts in view of court; how punished, etc.
11. Requisites of commitment.
12. Preceding sections limited.
18. Indictment, if ofence is indictable.
14. Contempts punishable civilly.
15. No punishment for non-payment of interlocutory costs
16. Id.; money due upon a contract.
17. Rules of courts of record, how made and revised. '
18. Rules to be published.
19. Courts to order calendar printed.
20. Expense to be a county charge.

21. Certain papers may be destroyed.

22. Writs, etc., in name of the people, and in English; abbreviations.
23. Id.; tests and return.
24. Id.; to be subscribed or indorsed. When error, etc., not to vitiate.
25. N o discontinuance by reason of vacancy, etc.

26. In New-York, one judge may continue proceedings commenced before
another.

27. Provisions respecting the seals of courts.
28. Seals of counties.

29. What is a suilicient sealing.
80. New seals.

§ 5. The sittings of a court are public, and any citizen
may freely attend the same.

§ 6. A court shall not be opened, or transact any business on Sunday, except to receive a verdict or discharge a
jury. An adjournment of a court on Saturday, unless made
after a cause has been committed to a jury, must be to some
other day than Sunday. But this section does not prevent
the exercise of the jurisdiction of a magistrate, where it is
necessary to preserve the peace, or, in a criminal case, to
arrest, commit or discharge a person charged with an offense.

§ 7. A court of record has power :'

1. To issue a subpoena, requiring the attendance of a
person found in the State, to testify in a cause pending in
that court; subject, however, to the limitations, prescribed
by law, with respect to the portion of the State, in which
the process of a local court of record may be served.

2. To administer an oath to a witness, in the exercise of
the powers and duties of the court.

3. To devise and make new process and forms of proceedings, necessary to carry into effect the powers and jurisdiction possessed by it.

§ 8. A co1u't of record has power to punish for a criminal
contempt, a person guilty of either of the following acts,
and no others:

1. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior, committed during its sitting, in its immediate view and presence, and directly tending to interrupt its proceedings, or
to impair the respect due to its authority. '

2. Breach of the peace, noise, or other disturbance,
directly tending to interrupt its proceedings.

3. Wilful disobedience to its lawful mandate.

4. Resistance willfully offered to its lawful mandate.

5. Contumacious and unlawful refusal to be sworn as a
witness; or, after being sworn, to answer any legal and
proper interrogatory.

6. Publication of a false, or grossly inaccurate report of
its proceedings. But a court cannot punish as a contempt,
the publication of a true, full, and fair report of a trial,
argument, decision, or other proceeding therein.

§ 9. Punishment for a contempt, specified in the last section, may be by fine, not exceeding two hundred and fifty
dollars, or by imprisonment, not exceeding thirty days, in
the jail of the county where the court is sitting, or both, in
the discretion of the court. Where a person is committed
to jail, for the non-payment of such a line, he must be discharged at the expiration of thirty days; but where he is
also committed for a definite time, the thirty days must be
computed from the expiration of the definite time.

§ 10. Such acontempt, committed in the immediate view
and presence of the court, may be punished summarily;
when not so committed, the party charged must be notified
of the accusation, and have a reasonable time to make a
defense.

§ 11. Where a person is committed for such a contempt,
the particular circumstances of his offense must be set forth
in the mandate of commitment.

§ 12. The last four sections do not extend to a special
proceeding to punish a person, in a case specified in section
14 of this act.

§ 13. Punishment for a contempt, as prescribed in this article, does not bar an indictment for the same offense;
but where a person who has been so punished is convicted
on such an indictment, the court, in sentencing him, must
take into consideration the previous punishment.

§ 14. A court of record has power to punish, by fine and
imprisonment, or either, a neglect or violation of duty, or
other misconduct, by which a right or remedy of a party to
a civil action or special proceeding, pending in the court,
may be defeated, impaired, impeded, or prejudiced, in either
of the following cases:

1. An attorney, counsellor, clerk, sheriff, coroner, or other
person, in any manner duly selected or appointed to perform a judicial or ministerial service, for a misbehavior
in his office or trust, or for a willful neglect or violation
of duty therein; or for disobedience to a lawful mandate
of the court, or of a judge thereof, or of an officer authorized to perform the duties of such a judge.

2. A party to the action or special proceeding, for putting
in fictitious bail or a fictitious surety, or for any deceit or
abuse of a mandate or proceeding of the court.

3. A party to the action or special proceeding, an attorney, counsellor, or other person, for the non-payment of a
sum of money ordered or adjudged by the court to be paid,
in a case where by law execution cannot be awarded for
the collection of such sum; or for any other disobedience
to a lawful mandate of the court.

4. A person, for assuming to be an attorney or counsellor, or other officer of the court, and acting as such without
authority; for rescuing any property or person in the custody of an officer, by virtue of a mandate of the court; for
unlawfully detaining, or fraudulently and willfully preventing, or disabling from attending or testifying, a witness,
or a palty to the action or special proceeding, while going
to, remaining at, or returning from, the sitting where it is
noticed for trial or hearino" and for any other unlawful
interference with the proceedings therein.

5. A person subpoenaed as a witness, for refusing or
neglecting to obey the subpoena, or to attend, or to be sworn,

or to answer as a witness.
6. A person duly notified to attend as a juror at a term

of the court, for improperly conversing with a party to an
action or special proceeding, to be tried at that term, or
with any other person, in relation to the merits of that
action or special proceeding : or for receiving a communication from any person, in relation to the merits of such an
action or special proceeding, without immediately disclosing the same to the court.

7. An inferior magistrate, or a judge or other officer of an
inferior court, for proceeding contrary to law in a cause
or matter, which has been removed from his jurisdiction to
the court inllicting the punishment; or for disobedience to
a lawful order or other mandate of the latter court.

8. In any other case, where an attachment or any other
proceeding to punish for a contempt, has been usually
adopted and practiced in a court of record, to enforce a
civil remedy of a party to an action or special proceeding in
that court, or to protect the right of a party.

§ 15. But a person shall not be arrested or imprisoned,
for the non-payment of costs, awarded otherwise than by
a final judgment, except where an attorney, counsellor, or
other officer of the court, is ordered to pay costs for misconduct as such, or a Witness is ordered to pay costs on an
attachment for non-attendance.

§ 16. Except in a case where it is otherwise specially
prescribed by law, a person shall not be arrested or imprisoned for disobedience to a judgment or order, requiring the
payment of money due upon a contract, express or implied,
or as damages for non-performance of a contract.

§ 17 . The general term justices of the supreme court, and
the chief judges of the superior city courts, must meet in

convention, at the capitol, in the city of Albany, on the first
Wednesday of August, 1876, and every second year thereafter. The convention must establish rules of practice, not
inconsistent with this act, which shall be binding upon all
courts of record, except the court for the trial of impeachments and the court of appeals. Amajority of the members of the convention constitute a quorum. The rules thus
established are styled in this act, “the general rules of practice.”

§ 18. A rule thus established, or a general rule or order’
of the court of appeals, does not take effect, until it has
been published in the newspaper published at Albany, in
which legal notices are required by law to be published,
once in each week for three successive weeks.

§ 19. A court of record, except in the city and county
of New-York, may, from time to time, by an order made at
general term, require the clerk to cause to be printed for
the use of the members and officers thereof, the necessary
copies of the calendar of causes, prepared for a term of
the court, or for the circuit court.

§ 20. The expense of printing the copies of the calendar
for a term, shall be a charge upon the county in which the
term is held; and must be audited, allowed and paid, by
the board of supervisors thereof, in like manner as other
contingent county charges.

§ 21. A superior city court may, from time to time, by
an order made at general term, direct the clerk of the court,

and the supreme court, at general term, may, by a like

order, direct a county clerk, to destroy any of the following papers, now filed, or hereafter to be filed in his office,
which the court deems to have become useless, to wit:
pleadings, or copies of pleadings furnished for the use of the
court; jury panels; returns of inferior courts, which have

been embodied in judgment-records or judgment-rolls; innkeepers’ licenses, ten years old; and returns of election district
canvassers, twenty years old, which have been copied, pursuant to law, into books preserved in his office. But this provision does not authorize the destruction of a judgmentroll, or a paper incorporated or necessary to be incorporated into a judgment-roll, or not hereinbefore specified.

§ 22. Except where it is otherwise specially prescribed

by law, a writ or other process must be in the name of the

people of the State, and each writ, process, record, pleading
or other proceeding in a court, or before an officer, must be?
in the English language, and, unless it is oral, made out on‘

paper or parchment, in a fair legible character, in words at
length, and not abbreviated. But the proper and known
names of process, and technical words, may be expressed in
appropriate language, as now is, and heretofore has been
customary; such abbreviations as are now commonly employed in the English language may be used; and numbers
may be expressed by Arabic figures, or Roman numerals, in
the customary manner.

§ 23. A writ or other process, issued out of a court of
record, must be tested, except where it is otherwise specially
prescribed by law, in the name of a judge of the court, on
any day; must be returnable within the time prescribed
by law; or, if no time is prescribed by law, within the time
fixed by the court, and therein speciiied for that purpose;
and, when returnable, must, together with the return thereto,
be filed with the clerk, unless otherwise specially prescribed by law.

§ 24. A writ or other process, issued out of a court of
record, must, before the delivery thereof to an oiiicer to be
executed, be subscribed or indorsed with the name of the
officer by whom, or by whose direction it was granted, or the
attorney for the party, or the person at whose instance it was

issued. A writ or other process thus subscribed or indorsed,
is not void or voidable, by reason of having no seal or a
Wrong seal thereon, or of any mistake or omission in the
teste thereof, or in the name of the clerk, unless’ it Was
issued by special order of the court.

§ 25. An action or special proceeding, civil or criminal,
in a court of record, is not discontinued by a vacancy or
change in the judges of the court, or by the re-election or
re-appointment of a judge; but it must be continued, heard
and determined, by the court, as constituted at the time of
the hearing or determination. After a judge is out of
oiiice, he may settle a case or exceptions, or make any return
of proceedings, had before him While he Was in oiiice.

§ 26. In the city and county of N ew-York, a special

 proceeding instituted before a judge of a court; of record, or
- a proceeding commenced before a judge of the court, out

of court, in an action or special proceeding pending in a
court of record, may be continued from time to time, before
one or more other judges of the same court, with like effect
as if it hadbeen instituted or commenced before the judge
Who last hears the same.

§ 27. The seal of the court of appeals, and of each other
court of record in the State, now in use, shall continue to
be the seal of the court in which it is in use: and the seal
kept by the county clerk of each county, shall continue to
be the seal of the supreme court, of the circuit court, of the
court of oyer and terminer, in that county, and, except in
the city and county of New-York, of the county court and
court of sessions, in that county. The seal of the surrogate
of each county shall continue to be the seal of the surrogate’s court of that county, and must be used as such by
an officer, Who discharges the duties of the surrogate. A
description of each of the seals specified in this section,
must be deposited and recorded in the office of thesecretary of State, unless it has already been done; and must
remain of record.

§ 28. The seal kept by a county clerk, as prescribed in
the last section, shall continue to be the seal of the county,
and must be used by him Where he is required to use an
official seal.

§ 29. The seal of a court may be ailixed, by making an
impression directly upon the paper.

§ 30. When the seal of a court is so injured, that it cannot be conveniently used, the court must cause it to be
destroyed ; and When the seal of a court is lost or destroyed,
the court must cause a new seal to be made, similar in all
respects to the former seal, Which shall become the seal of
the court. The expense of a new seal for a county clerk,
a surrogate’s court, or a local court in a city, must be paid as
part of the contingent expenses of the county or of the
court, as the case requires. The expense of a new seal for
any other court must be paid from the State treasury.

ARTICLE THIRD.

Mrscmmxnnous Pnovrsrous RELATING ro THE Srrrmas 03' mm Counrs.

31. Rooms, fuel, etc., how furnished.
32. No liquors, etc., to be sold in court-house.

33. Penalty.

34. Adjournment of court to a future day.

35. Adjournment to next day, judge not appearing.

86. When court to be adjourned without day.

37. Causes tried elsewhere than at court-house.

88. Governor may change place for holding courts of record.

39. Such appointment, etc., to be recorded and published.

40. Judge may change place for holding court of record.

41. Actual session may be adjourned to another place.

42. Place for holding courts in city of New-York, how changed.

43. When court-house is unfit to hold court, another place to be appointed.
44
45

. No action or special proceeding abated, etc., by failure or adjournment
of court.

. Trial once commenced may be continued beyond term.

§ 31. Except Where other provision is made therefore by
law, the board of supervisors of each county must provide
each court of record, appointed to be held therein, with
proper and convenient rooms and furniture, together with
attendants, fuel, lights, and stationery, suitable and suiiicient for the transaction of its business. If the supervisors
neglect so to do, the court may order the sheriff to make
the requisite provision; and the expense incurred by him
in carrying the order into effect, when certified by the court,
is a county charge.

§ 32. Strong, spirituous, or fermented liquor, or Wine, shall
not, on any pretense whatever, be sold Within a building
established as a court-house for holding courts of record,
While such a court is sitting therein; except in a part of the
building, not appropriated to the use of courts, or of juries
attending them, in which the sale has been authorized by
a resolution of the board of supervisors of the county.

§ 33. A person violating the last section is guilty of a
misdemeanor.

§ 34. A general, special, or trial term of a court of record
may be adjourned, from day to day, or to a specified future
day, by an entry in the minutes. Jurors may be drawn
for, and notified to attend a term so adjourned, and causes
may be noticed for trial thereat, as if it was held by original appointment. Any judge of the court may so adjourn

a term thereof, in the absence of a sufficient number of
judges to hold the term.

§ 35. If a judge, authorized to hold a term of a court,
does not come to the place Where the term is appointed to

‘be held, before four o’clock in the afternoon of the day so

appointed, the sheriff or clerk must then open the term, and
forthwith adjourn it to nine o’clock in the morning of the
next day.

§ 36. If a suilicient number of judges, to hold the term,
attend at the appointed place before four o’clock in the
afternoon of the second day, the term must be opened and
proceed in the business before it; otherwise the sheriff or
the clerk must adjourn it without day.

§ 37. The parties to a civil action or special proceeding,
pending in a court of record, may, with the consent
of the judge who is to try or hear the same, stipulate in
Writing, that it shall be tried or heard and determined, elsewhere than at‘ the courthouse. The stipulation must specify the place of trial or hearing, and must be filed in the
oihce of the clerk; and the trial or hearing must be brought
on upon the usual notice, unless otherwise provided in the

stipulation.

§ 38. If the governor deems it requisite, by reason of
war, pesfilence, or other public calamity, or the danger
thereof, that the next ensuing term, or the next ensuing
adjourned sitting, of the court of appeals, or that the next
ensuing term of any other court of record, appointed to be
held elsewhere than in the city of New-York, should be
held at some place, other than that where it is appointed to
be held, he may, by proclamation, appoint a different place
within its district, for the holding thereof: and at any time
thereafter he may revoke the appointment, and appoint
another place, or leave the term to be held at the place
Where it would have been ‘held, but for his appointment.

§ 39. Such an appointment or revocation must be under
the hand of the governor, and filed in the office of the
secretary of State; it must be published in such newspapers
and for such time, as the governor directs; and the expense
of the publication must be paid out of the State treasury.

§ 40. If a malignant, contagious, or epidemic disease
exists at the place, where a term of a court of record is

appointed to be held, and the governor has not appointed,
under the last two sections, another place to hold the same,
the judge, or, if there are two or more, the chief or presiding judge, designated to hold the term, may, by order, direct
the term to be held at another place designated by him, within the district for which it is to be held. The order must be
forthwith filed in the oiiice of the clerk of the county where
the term was to be held, and published in such newspapers,
and for such a time, as the judge directs therein; and thereafter the governor shall not appoint another place, for holding that term.

§ 41. If, during the actual session of a term of a court of
record, the judge, or a majority of the judges, holding the
same, deem it inexpedient, by reason of war, pesfilence or
other public calamity, or the danger thereof, or for want of
suitable accommodation, that the term should be continued at
the place where it is then being held, the court may, by order,
adjourn the term, to be held at any other time and place
within its district. Notice of such an adjournment must
be given, as the court directs by the order.

§ 42. The mayor or, in case of his absence, or other disability, the recorder of the city of New-York, may, by
proclamation, direct that the next ensuing term of any court,
other than the court of appeals, appointed to be held in
that city, shall be held in any building, within the city
of New-York, other than the building where the same
is regularly to be held,  in his opinion, war, pesfilence,
or other public calamity, or the danger thereof, or the
destruction or injury of the building, or the want of suitable accommodation, renders it necessary that some other
place should be selected. The proclamation must be published in two or more daily newspapers, published in the
city of New-York.

§ 43. If the building established as a court-house in any
other county is destroyed, or is, for any cause, unsafe, inconvenient, or uniit for holding court therein, the county judge
of the county may, by an order filed in the office of the}
clerk of the county, appoint another building in the vicinity ;
for temporarily holding courts. .The building so appointed]
becomes the courthouse of the county, for the time being ;l
and business transacted therein has the same effect as if it
was transacted at the usual place. ‘

§ 44. When a term of a court fails or is adjourned, or:
the time or place of holding the same is changed, as pre-1
scribed in this chapter, an action, special proceeding, Writ,j
process, recognizance, or other proceeding, civil or criminal, «
returnable, or to be heard or tried, at that term, is not]
abated, discontinued, or rendered void thereby; but all per-‘
sons are bound to appear, and all proceedings must be had,
at the time and place to which ‘ the term is adjourned or
changed, or, if it fails, at the next term, with like effect as
if the term was held, as originally appointed.

§ 45. Where the trial or hearing of an issue of fact,:
joined in an action or special proceeding, civil or criminal, :
has been commenced at a term of a court of record, it may be ;
continued to the completion thereof; including, if the cause‘
is tried by a jury, all proceedings taken therein until the
actual.discharge of the jury; or, if it is tried by the court
Without a jury, until it is finally submitted for a decision
upon the merits; notwithstanding the expiration of the
time appointed for the term to continue.

TITLE II.

Provisions of general application, relating to the judges, and
certain other officers of the courts.

An'rIOI.E 1. General powers, duties, liabilities, and disabilities of judges, and
officers acting judicially.
2. Attorneys and counsellors at law.
8. General provisions concerning certain ministerial officers, connected
with the administration of justice ; and special provisions concerning officers of that description, attached to two or more courts.

ARTICLE FIRST.

Gunman Pownns, Dorms, LIABILITIES, AND D1s.u3n.r-rim or Junens, am)
Orrrcans ACTING J UDICIALLY.

. 46. Judge not to sit where he is a party, etc., or has not heard argument.
47. Judge not to be interested in costs.
48. Disability of judge in certain appeals.
49. Judge or judge's partner not to practice in his court.
50. J udge’s partner or clerk not to practice before him; judge not to practice

in a cause which has been before him.

51. Judge not to take tees for advice in certain cases.

52. Substitution of one odicer for another in special proceeding.
58. Proceedings before substituted officer.
54. Judge to file certificate of age, etc.

§ 46. A judge shall not sit as such in, or take any part in the decision of, a cause or matter to which he is a party,
or in which he has been attorney or counsel, or in which he
is interested, or in which he would be excluded from being
a juror, by reason of consanguinity or affinity to either of
the parties. A judge, other than a judge of the court of
appeals, shall not decide or take part in the decision of a
question, which was argued orally in the court, when he
was not present and sitting therein as a judge.

§ 47. A judge shall not be directly or indirectly interested in the costs of an action or special proceeding,
brought before him, or in a court of which he is, or is
entitled to act as a member, except an action or a special

proceeding to which he is a party, or in which he is interested.

§ 48. Where an appeal has been taken to a court of ses-:
sions, in which a town in the county is interested-, a7
justice of the peace, who is a resident of that town, shall
not sit as a justice of sessions, upon the hearing of the appeal.
Except as specified in this section, a judge of a court of
record is not disqualified, from hearing or deciding an action
or special proceeding, matter, or question, by reason of his
being a resident or a tax-payer of a town, village, city, or
county, interested therein.

§ 49. A judge shall not practice or act as an attorney or‘
counsellor, in a court of which he is, or is entitled to actf
as a member, or in a cause originating in that court. A;
law partner of, or person connected in law business With‘
a judge, shall not practice or act as an attorney or counsellor,
in a court, of which the judge is, or is entitled to act as a
member, or in a cause originating in that court; except
where the latter is a member of a court, ex-ofiicio, and does
not oiiiciate or take part, as a member of that court, in any
of the proceedings therein. An ex-ofiicio judge shall not,
directly or indirectly, be interested in the costs, or the compensation of an attorney or counsellor, in the court of which
he is ex-oflicio a judge.

§ 50. The law partner or clerk of a judge shall not practice before him, as attorney or counsellor in any cause, or
be employed in any cause Which originated before him. A.
judge shall not act as attorney or counsellor in any action
or special proceeding, which has been before him in his
official character. But this section does not apply to a case,‘
where an action brought or a special proceeding instituted
before the judge, or in his court, has been discontinued or
transferred to another court or judge, by reason of the
judge’s interest therein.

§ 51. A judge or other judicial officer, shall not demand

or receive a fee or other compensation, for giving his advice
in a matter or thing pending before him, or which he has
reason to believe will be brought before him for decision;
or for preparing a paper or other proceeding, relating
to such a matter or thing; except a justice of the peace, in
a case Where a fee is expressly allowed to him by law.

§ 52. In case of the death, sickness, resignation, removal
f:ron1 oiiice, absence from the county, or other disability of
an oiiicer, before Whom a special proceeding has been instituted, Where no express provision is made by law for the
continuance thereof, it may be continued before the otIicer’s
successor, or any other officer residing in the same county,
before Whom it might have been originally instituted; or, if
there is no such officer in the same county, before an officer
in an adjoining county, who would originally have had jurisdiction of the subject-matter, if it had occurred or existed
in the latter county.

§ 53. At the time and place specified in a notice or order,
for a party to appear, or for any other proceeding to be
taken, or at the time and place specified in the notice to be
given as prescribed in this section, the officer substituted
as prescribed in the ‘last section, or in any other provision
of law, to continue a special proceeding instituted before
another, may act, with respect to the special proceeding,
as if it had been originally instituted before him. But a
proceeding shall not be taken before a substituted officer,
at a time or place, other than that specihed in the original
notice or order, until notice of the substitution, and of the

time and place appointed for the proceeding to be taken, has
been given, either by personal service or by publication,
in such manner and for such time as the substituted officer
directs, to each party who may be affected thereby, and
who has not appeared before either officer. Where, after
a hearing has been commenced, it is adjourned to the next

judicial day, each day to which it is so adjourned, is

regarded, for the purposes of this section, as the day specified’

in the original notice or order, or in the notice to appear
before the substituted officer, as the case requires.

§ 54. A judge of a court of record must, Within ten
days after he enters on the duties of his office, make and
sign a certificate, stating his age, and the time When his
omcial term will expire, either by completion of a full term,
or by reason of the disability of age, prescribed in the constitution. The certificate must be filed in the oiiice of the
secretary of State, who must keep a record of the time of
the commencement and termination of the official term, of
each judge of a court of record.

ARTICLE SECOND.

ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS AT Law.

BBC. 55. Party may appear in person or by attorney.

56. Examination and admission of attorneys.

57. Rules, how changed.

58. Exemptions to graduates of certain law schools.

59. Attorney’s oath of otilce. and certificate of admission.
60. Attorneys residing in adjoining states.
61. Clerks, etc., not to practice.

62. Id. ; as to sherid, etc.

63. None but attorneys to practice in New-York and Kings counties.
64. Penalty for violation, or suffering violation of last section.

65

66

6

. Death or disability of attorney; proceedings thereupon.
. Attorney or counsel's compensation.

7. Removal or suspension for malpractice, etc.
Must be on notice.

Removal or suspension, how to operate.
70. Punishment for deceit, etc.

71. Id.; for willful delay of action.
72. Attorney not to lend his name.

73. Attorney not to buy claim.

74. Certain loans prohibited.

75. Penalty. ,

76. Limitation of preceding sections.

77. Same rule when party prosecutes in person.

78. Partner of district-attorney, etc.. not to defend prosecutions.
79. Attorney not to defend when he has been public prosecutor.

80. Penalty.
81. Limitation of provisions.

§ 55. A party to a civil action, who is of full age, may
prosecute or defend the same in person or by attorney, at
his election, unless he has been judicially declared to be
incompetent to manage his affairs. Each provision of this
act, relating, to the conduct of an action, wherein the attorney for the party is mentioned, includes a party prosecuting or defending in person, unless otherwise specially
prescribed therein, or unless that construction is manifestly

repugnant to the context. If a party has an attorney in
the action, he cannot appear to act in person, Where an
attorney may appear or act, either by special provision of
law, or by the course and practice of the court. '

§ 56. A male citizen of the State, of full age, hereafter

applying to be admitted to practice as an attorney or counsellor, in the courts of record of the State, must be examined
at a general term of the supreme court, by the justices holding the term, or a committee appointed by them. If it is
found that he has complied with the rules, established by
the court of appeals for that purpose, and he is approved,
by the justices holding the term, for his good character and
learning, the court must direct an order to be entered, stating those facts, and admitting him to practice as an attorney
and counsellor, in all’ the courts of record of the State.
Thereupon, after qualifying, as prescribed in section 59 of
this act, he is entitled to practice accordingly; subject,
nevertheless, to suspension or removal from oiiice, as prescribed by law.

§ 57. The rules established by the court of appeals,
touching the admission of attorneys and counsellors to practice in the courts of record of the State, shall not be changed
or amended, except by a majority of the judges of that court.
A copy of each amendment of those rules must, within ‘rive
days after it is adopted, be filed in the office of the secretary of State; Who must transmit a printed copy thereof to
the clerk of each county, and to the presiding justice of
the supreme court, in each judicial department, and also

cause the same to be published, in the next ensuing volume
of the session laws.

§ 58. Nothing contained in the last two sections prevents
the court of appeals from dispensing, in the rules established by it, With the Whole or any part of the stated
period of clerkship, required from an applicant, or with
an examination, Where the applicant is a graduate o£ the
law department of the university of Albany, or of the law
department of the university of the city of New-York, or
of the law school of Columbia College, or of the law department of Hamilton College, and produces his diploma upon
his application for admission.

§ 59. Each person, admitted as prescribed in the last
three sections, must, upon his admission, take the constitutional oath of office in open court, and subscribe the same
in a roll orbook, to be kept in the supreme court for that
purpose. The clerk, upon the payment of the fees allowed
by law, must deliver to the person admitted, a certificate
under his hand and ofiicial seal, stating that such person has
been so admitted, and that he has taken and subscribed the
constitutional oath of office, as prescribed in this section.

§ 60. A person regularly admitted to practice as attorney and counsellor, in the courts of record of the State,
whose office for the transaction of law business is Within
the State, may practice as such attorney or counsellor,
although he resides in an adjoining state. But service
of a paper, which might be made upon him at his residence, if he Was a resident of the State, may be made upon
him, by depositing the paper in a post-office in the city or
town where his office is located, properly inclosed in a
postpaid Wrapper, directed to him at his office. A service
thus made is equivalent to personal service upon him.

§ 61. The clerk, deputy-clerk, or special deputy-clerk of
a court shall not, during his continuance in oilice, practice
as attorney or counsellor in that court.

§ 62. A sheriff, under-sheriff, deputy-sheriff, sheriff’s
clerk, constable, coroner, crier or attendant of a court, shall
not, during his continuance in office, practice as an attorney
or counsellor in any court.

§ 63. A person shall not ask or receive, directly or indirectly, compensation for appearing as attorney in a court
in the city and county of New-York, or in the county of

6 Kings, or make it a business to practice as an attorney in a

court in either of those counties, unless he has been regularly admitted to practice as an attorney and counsellor in
the courts of record of the State.

§ 64. A person who violates the last section is guilty of

' a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by imprisonment in

the county jail, not exceeding one month, or by a line of
not less than one hundred dollars, or more than two hundred and fifty dollars, or by both such fine and imprisonment. A judge or justice of the peace Within the city and
county of New-York, or the county of Kings, Who knowingly permits to practice in his court, a person who has not
been regularly admitted to practice in the courts of record
of the State, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished as prescribed in this section. But this and the last section do not apply to a case, where a person appears in a
cause, to which he is a party.

§ 65. If an attorney dies, is removed or suspended, or
otherwise becomes disabled to act, at any time before judgment in an action, no further proceeding shall be taken in
the action, against the party for whom he appeared, until
thirty days after notice to appoint another attorney, has
been given to that party, either personally, or in such other
manner as the court directs.

§ 66. The compensation of an attorney or counsellor for
his services, is governed by agreement, express or implied,
which is not restrained by law.

§ 67. An attorney or counsellor who is guilty of any
deceit, malpractice, crime, or misdemeanor, may be suspended from practice or removed from office, by the
supreme court, at a general term thereof.

§ 68. Before an attorney or counsellor is suspended or
removed, as prescribed in the last section, a copy of the
charges against him must be delivered to him, and he
must be allowed an opportunity of being heard in his
defense.

§ 69. The suspension or removal of an attorney or counsellor, by the supreme court, operates as a suspension or
removal in every court of the State.

§ 70. An attorney or counsellor, who is guilty of any
deceit or collusion, or consents to any deceit or collusion,
with intent to deceive the court or a party, forfeits, to the
party injured by his deceit or collusion, treble damages.
He is also guilty of a misdemeanor.

§ 71. An attorney or counsellor who willfully delays his
client’s cause, with a view to his own gain, or willfully
receives money, or an allowance for or on account of
money, which he has not laid out or become answerable
for, forfeits to the party injured, treble damages.

§ 72. If an attorney knowingly permits a person, not
being his general law partner, or a clerk in his office, to sue
out a mandate, or to prosecute or defend an action in his

name, he, and the person who so uses his name, each forfeits to the party against whom the mandate has been
sued out, or the action prosecuted or defended, the sum of

fifty dollars, to be recovered in an action.

§ 73. An attorney or counsellor shall not, directly or indirectly, buy, or be in any manner interested in buying, a
bond, promissory note, bill of exchange, book-debt, or other

thing in action, with the intent and for the purpose of
bringing an action thereon.

§ 74. An attorney or counsellor shall not, by himself, or
by or in the name of another person, either before or

after action brought, promise or give, or procure to be
promised or given, a valuable consideration to any person, as an inducement to placing, or in consideration of
having placed, in his hands, or in the hands of another

person, a demand of any kind, for the purpose of bringing
an action thereon.

§ 75. An attorney or counsellor, who violates either of
the last two sections, is guilty of a misdemeanor; and, on
conviction thereof, shall be punished accordingly, and must
be removed from office by the supreme court.

§ 76. The last three sections do not prohibit the receipt,
by an attorney or counsellor, of a bond, promissory note,

bill of exchange, book-debt, or other thing in action, in payment for property sold, or for services actually rendered, or

for a debt antecedently contracted; or from buying or receiving a bill of exchange, draft, or other thing in action, for
the purpose of remittance, and t Without intent to violate

either of those sections.

§ 77. The last four sections apply to a person prosecuting an action in person, who does an act, which an attorney

or counsellor is therein forbidden to do.

§ 78. An attorney or counsellor shall not, directly or
indirectly, advise concerning, aid, or take any part in, the
defense of an action or special proceeding, brought, carried
on, aided, advocated, or prosecuted, in a court of civil or
criminal jurisdiction, as attorney-general, district-attorney,
or other public prosecutor, by a person with Whom he is
interested or connected, either directly or indirectly, as a
law partner; or take or receive, directly or indirectly, from
a defendant therein, or other person, a fee, gratuity, or reWard, for or upon any cause, consideration, pretense, understanding, or agreement Whatever, either express or implied,
having relation thereto, or to the prosecution or defense

thereof.

§ 79. An attorney or counsellor, who has brought, carried on, aided, advocated, or prosecuted, or has been in anywise connected With, an action or special proceeding, in a
court of civil or criminal jurisdiction, as attorney-general,
district-attorney, or other public prosecutor, shall not, at any
time thereafter, directly or indirectly, advise concerning,
aid, or take any part in, the defense thereof; or take or
receive, either directly or indirectly, from a defendant therein, or other person, a fee, gratuity or reward, for
or upon any cause, consideration, pretense, understanding,
or agreement, either express or implied, having relation
thereto, or to the prosecution or defense thereof.

§ 80. An attorney or counsellor who violates either of I

the last two sections, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on
conviction thereof, shall be punished accordingly; and
must be removed from oiiice by the supreme court.

§ 81. This article does not prohibit an attorney or coun.
sellor from defending himself in person, if prosecuted
either civilly or criminally. '

ARTICLE THIRD.

Gamma. Pnovrsrons coxcxnamse cnnmnw mmsrnmu Orrrcans, coxmwrnn wrm run Annmrsrnxrron or J usrrcn; am) srncrn. Pnovrsloxs

concanmno Orrrcaas or run Dascnrrrron, ATTACHED TO Two on MORE
COURTS.
82. Qualifications of stenographer.

83. General duty of stenographer; notes, when to be dled.
84. Notes, how preserved; when written out.

85. Stenographers to furnish gratuitously copies of proceedings, to judge.
86. To furnish like copies to parties, district-attorney and attorney-general;
compensation.

87. These sections applicable to assistant-stenographers.

88. Supervisors to provide for compensation, etc., of stenographers.
89. County clerk to appoint special deputy to attend courts.

90. County judge to appoint crier. _

91. Clerk of Dutchess county to be crier in that county.

92. When sherif, constable, etc., to act as crier.

98. Attendants upon courts in New-York city.

94 Interpreter for courts of record in Kings county.

95. Attendants and messengers, how appointed in Kings county.
96. Duties of persons appointed under last section.

97. Sheriif, when directed, to require constables, etc., to attend courts.
98. Id., when not directed.

99. Penalty for neglect of officer to attend court.

§ 82. Each stenographer, specified in this act, is an
oihcer of the court or courts, for or by which he is appointed; and, before entering upon the discharge of his
duties, must subscribe the constitutional oath of office, and
file the same in the office of the clerk of the court, or, in
the supreme court, in the office of the clerk of the county
Where the term sits, or the judge resides, by which or by
whom he is appointed. A person shall not be appointed
to the office of stenographer, unless he is skilled in the
stenographic art.

§ 83. Each stenographer, specified in this act, must,
under the direction of the judge, presiding at or holding the
term or sitting Which he attends, take full stenographic
notes of the testimony, and of all other proceedings, in each
cause tried or heard thereat, except when the judge dispenses With his services in a particular cause, or with respect

to a portion of the proceedings therein. The court, or a
judge thereof, may, in its or his discretion, upon or without
an application for that purpose, make an order, directing the q
stenographer to file with the clerk, forthwith or within a
specified time, the original stenographic notes, taken upon a
trial or hearing; whereupon the stenographer must file the
same accordingly.

§ 84. The original stenographic notes, taken by a stenogra- 2
pher, are part of the proceedings in the cause; and, unless}
they are filed, pursuant to an order, made as prescribed in the ;
last section, they must be carefully preserved by the stenographer, for two years after the trial or hearing; at the expiration of which time he may destroy the same. If the stenographer dies, or his office becomes otherwise vacant, before
the expiration of that time, they must be delivered to his
successor in office, to be held by'him with like effect, as if
they had been taken by him. They must be written out at
length by the stenographer, if a judge of the court so
directs, or if the stenographer is required so to do, by a
person entitled by law to a copy of the same, so written
out. Unless such a direction is given, or such a requisition
is made, the stenographer is not bound so to write them out.

§ 85. Each stenographer, specified in this act, must,?
upon request, furnish, with all reasonable diligence and;
Without charge, to the judge holding a term or sitting,}
which he has attended, a copy, Written out at length from 3
his stenographic notes, of the testimony and proceedings, T
or a part thereof, upon a trial or hearing, at that term or
sitting. But this section does not affect a provision of
law, authorizing the judge to direct a party or the parties to an action or special proceeding, or the county treasurer, to pay the stenogra.pher’s fees for such a copy.

§ 86. Each stenographer, specified in this act, must like-f
wise, upon request, furnish, with all reasonable diligence, to f

a party, or the attorney for a party to an action or special
proceeding, in which he has attended the trial or hearing, a

copy, Written out at length from his stenographic notes, of ’

the testimony and proceedings, or a part thereof, upon the
trial or hearing, upon payment, by the person requiring the
same, of the fees allowed by law. If the district-attorney
or the attorney-general requires such a copy in a criminal
case, the stenographer is entitled to his fees therefore; but
he must furnish it, upon receiving a certificate of the sum
to which he is- so entitled ; which shall be a county charge,
and must be paid by the county treasurer, upon the certificate, like other county charges.

§ 87. The provisions of the last five sections are also
applicable to each assistant-stenographer, now in oiiice, or
appointed or employed, pursuant to any provision of
this act; except that the stenographic notes taken by an
assistant-stenographer must, if he dies or his oiiice becomes

otherwise vacant, be delivered to the stenographer, to be
held by him With like effect, as if they had been taken by

him.

§ 88. The board of supervisors of each county must provide for the payment of the sums, chargeable upon the
treasury of the county, for the salary, fees, or expenses of
a stenographer or assistant-stenographer; and all laws
relating to raising money in a county, by the board of
supervisors thereof, are applicable to those sums.

§ 89. The clerk of a county, having a population of one
hundred thousand inhabitants, or upwards, may, from time

to time, by an instrument in writing, filed in his oilice,

appoint, and at pleasure remove, one or more special deputyclerks, to attend upon any or all of the terms or sittings of
the courts of which he is clerk. Each person so appointed
must, before he enters upon the duties of his office, subscribe, and file in the clerk’s office, the constitutional oath

of oiiice; and he possesses, in the absence of the clerk and
the deputy-clerk, the same power and authority as the
clerk, at any sitting or term of the court, which he attends,
with respect to the business transacted thereat.

§ 90. The county judge of each county, except Kings
and Dutchess, from time to time, may appoint, and at pleasure remove, a crier for the courts of record held in his
county; Who is entitled to a compensation, nxed and to be
paid as prescribed by law.

§ 91. The clerk of the county of Dutchess, or in his
absence the deputy-clerk, must act as crier at each term of a
court of record held in that county. He is entitled therefore

to a compensation, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by
law.

§ 92. A sheriff, deputy-sheriff, or constable, attending a
term of a court of record, must, when required by the court,
act as crier therein; and he is not entitled to any additional
compensation for that service.

§ 93. The judges, or a majority of them, of each of the
following named courts, to Wit: the supreme court Within
the first judicial district; the court of common pleas for
the city and county of New-York ; and the superior court
of the city of New-York, from time to time, may appoint,
and at pleasure remove, such attendants upon the court of
which they are respectively members, including, where the
justices of the supreme court make the appointment, the
circuit court, and court of oyer and terminer. as they think
necessary for the due transaction of the business thereof;
not exceeding four attendants for each part, and four for
the general term.

§ 94. The board of supervisors of the county of Kings
may appoint an interpreter, to attend the terms of the

courts of record ‘held in that county, at Which issues
of fact are triable; who shall hold his oiiice during good

behavior.

§ 95. The following judges, to Wit: the justices of the
supreme court for the second judicial district, residing in
Kings county, or a majority of them; the judges of the city
court of Brooklyn, or a majority of them; the county judge
of Kings county; and the surrogate of Kings county;
may designate how many attendants and messengers, for
the appointment of Whom no provision is otherwise made
by law, are required to attend upon the terms and sittings of the court of which they are respectively members;
including, Where the justices of the supreme court make
the designation, the circuit court and court of oyer and
terminer. Notice of each designation‘ must be given to the
sheriff of Kings county, by the clerk of the court. The
sheriff must thereupon appoint as many qualihed persons,

-to an those offices for each court, as the judges thereof

have designated. The number of those officers may, from
time to time, be increased or diminished, and new appointments maybe made, in like manner. A person so appointed
may be removed from oiiice, by the judge of the court to
which he is assigned, or, if he is assigned to the supreme
court, or the city court of Brooklyn, by a majority of the
judges; and the sheriff shall not re-appoint, for the same
court, a person so removed.

§ 96. Each of the persons, appointed as prescribed in
the last section, must attend, from day to day, the terms
and sittings, Within the county of Kings, of the court to
Which he is assigned, to preserve order, and to perform
Whatever services may be required of him, by the judge
presiding thereat.

§ 97. The sheriff of each county, except New-York and
Kings, must, Within a reasonable time before the sitting, in

his county, of a special term of the supreme court, or a
term of the circuit court, county court, court of oyer and
terminer, or court of sessions, notify, in Writing and personally, as many constables of his county, as he has been

directed to notify, by the court, or the judge Who is to hold
or preside at the term, to appear and attend upon the term,

during its sitting.

§ 98. If such a direction has not been given by the court
or the judge, the sheriff may in like manner notify as many

constables, as he deems necessary, for the purpose specified
in the last section.

§ 99. Each constable seasonably notified, as prescribed
in the last two sections, must attend the term accordingly ;
and for each day’s neglect, he may be lined by the court, at
the term Which he was notified to attend, a sum not exceeding five dollars.

CHAPTER II.

POWERS, DUTIES, AND LIABILITIES OF A SHERIFF,
OR OTHER MINISTERIAL OFFICER, IN THE EXECUTION OF THE PROCESS OR OTHER MANDATE 
A COURT OR JUDGE, IN A CIVIL CASec.

TITLE I. —PRovISIoNS RELATING To THE ExEoUTIoN or own.
IIANDATES GENERALLY.

TITLE II. — PROVISIONS RELATING To TEE ExEcUTIoN, BY A
SHERIFF, or A IIANDATE AGAINST THE PERSON.

TITLE IH. — APPLIoATIoN on THE FOREGOING PRovIsIoNS TO

THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE CORONER, WHERE THE
SHERIFF IS A PARTY.

TITLE IV .—-PowERS, DUTIES, AND LIABILI'l‘IE8 or AN INCOMING

AND OITTGOING SHERIFF, RESPECTIVELY, T(/UCHINO
THE MATTERS INCLUDED IN THIS CHAPTER.

TITLE I.

Provisions relating to the ewecution of 07'/ail mandates
generalh/.

B30. 100. Sherif to furnish certain minute.
101. Copy of process, etc., to be delivered when served.
102. Sheriff to execute process, etc. ; may return by mail.
108. Penalty for neglect in special proceedings.

104. Sheriff may summon the power of the county, to overcome resistance
105. Names of resisters to be certified.

106. Punishment for refusing to assist.
107. Governor may order out military.

108. Trial of claim of title by third person, to property seized by Sheriff.
109. Expenses, how paid.

§ 100. A Sheriif to Whom a mandate of any description,
is delivered" to be executed, must, Without compensation,
give to the person delivering the same, if required, a minute in Writing, Signed by the Sheriff, Specifying the names
of the parties, the general nature of the mandate, and the
day and hour of receiving the Same.

§ 101. A sheriff or other officer, serving a mandate,
must, upon the request of the person served, deliver to
him a copy thereof, Without compensation, unless he is
expressly allowed by law to charge a fee therefore.

§ 102. A sheriff, or other oiiicer, to whom a mandate is
directed and delivered, must execute the same according to
the command thereof, and make return thereon of his proceedings, under his hand. For a violation of this provision,
he is liable to the party aggrieved, for the damages sustained
by him ; in addition to any fine or other punishment or
proceeding authorized by law. A mandate delivered to a
sheriff may be returned, by depositing the same in the postoiiice, properly inclosed in a post-paid Wrapper, addressed
to the clerk, at the place Where his office is situated; unless
the officer, making the return in the name of the sheriff,
resides in the place Where the clerk’s office is situated.

§ 103. A sheriff, or other officer, to Whom is delivered,
for service or execution, a mandate, authorized by law to be 3
issued. by a judge or other officer, in a special proceeding,
Who willfully neglects to execute the same, may be fined by
the judge, in a sum not exceeding twenty-five dollars.

§ 104. If a sheriff, to Whom a mandate is directed and
delivered, finds, or has reason to apprehend, that resistance
will be made to the execution thereof, he may command‘
all the male persons in his county, or as many as he thinks
proper, and With such arms as he directs, including any
military organization armed and equipped, to assist him in
overcoming the resistance, and, if necessary, in arresting
and confining the resisters, their aiders and abettors, to be
dealt with according to law.

§ 105. The sheriff must certify to the court, from which E
or by Whose authority the mandate Was issued, the names:
of the resisters, their aiders and abettors, as far as he can

ascertain the same, to the end that they may be punished
for their contempt of the court.

§ 106. A person, commanded by a sheriff to assist him,
as prescribed in the last section but one, who, without
lawful cause, refuses, or neglects to obey the command, is

guilty of a misdemeanor.

§ 107. If it appears to the governor, that the power of
a county will not be suiiicient, to enable the sheriff thereof

to serve or execute the process or other mandates delivered
to him, he must, on the application of the sheriff, order such
a military force from another county or counties, as is

necessary.

§ 108. Where it is specially prescribed by law, that a

A sheriff must, or may, in his discretion, empanel a jury to try

the validity of a claim or 'title to, or of the right of possession of goods or effects, seized by him by virtue of a mandate in an action, interposed by a person not a party to the
action, the trial must be conducted in the following manner,
except as otherwise specially prescribed by law:

1. The sheriff must, from time to time, notify as many
persons to attend, as it is necessary, in order to form a
jury of twelve persons, qualified to serve as trial jurors
in the county court of the county, or, in the city and county
of New-York, in the court of common pleas for that city
and county, to try the validity of the claim.’

2. Uponthe trial, witnesses may be examined, in behalf
of the claimant, and of the party at whose instance the
property claimed was taken by the sheriff. For the purpose of compelling the witnesses to attend and testify,
the sheriff, upon the application of either party to the
inquisition, must issue a subpoena, as prescribed in title
second of chapter ninth of this act, and with like effect;
except that a warrant to apprehend a witness who fails to
attend, or to commit a recusant witness, may be issued by

a judge of the court in which the action is brought, or by
the county judge, or, in the city and county of New-York,
by a judge of the court of common pleas for that city and
county.

3. The sheriff must preside upon the hearing. A Witness, produced by either party, must be sworn by the sheriff,
and examined orally in the presence of the jury. A witness, who testifies falsely upon such an examination, is
guilty of perjury in a like case, and is punishable in like
manner, as upon the trial of a civil action.

§ 109. Upon such a trial there are no costs: but the fees;
of the sheriff, jurors and Witnesses must be taxed by a 2
judge of the court, or the county judge of the county, or, in
the city and county of New-York, by a judge of the court
of common pleas for that city and county, and must be
paid as follows:

1. If the  by their verdict, find the title, or the right
of possession to the property claimed, to be in the claimant;
by the party at Whose instance the property was taken by
the sheri:E.

2. If they find adversely to the claimant, with respect to
all the property claimed; by the claimant.

3. If they find the title, or the right of possession to only
a part of the property claimed, to be in the claimant; each
party must pay his own Witnesses’ fees, and the sheriff’s and
jurors’ fees must be paid, one half by each party to the
inquisition.

Before notifying the jurors, the sheriff may, in his discretion, require each of the parties to the controversy to deposit
with him such reasonable sum, as may be necessary to cover
his legal fees and the jurors’ fees. The sheriff must return
to each party, the balance of the sum so deposited by him,
after deducting the fees lawfully chargeable to that party,
as prescribed in this section.

TITLE 11.

Provisions 7-elam'/ng to the eazeoution, by a sherif, of a man
date against the person.

ARTICLE 1. Arresting, conveying to jail, and committing a prisoner.

2. Jails; jail discipline; and regulations concerning the confinement
and care of prisoners.

3. Temporary jails, and temporary removal of prisoners from jail.
4. Jail liberties; escapes.
5. Action upon and assignment of a bond for jail liberties.

ARTICLE FIRST.

Annnsrmc, convnrme T0 JAIL, AND comrrrrmc A Pmsormn.

4

110. Prisoner, how kept.

111. Support of prisoner in Kings county.
112. Id., in other counties.

113. Charges for food, etc., when prohibited.
114. Also for waiting for prisoner.

115. Rates of charges for lodging, etc.

116. Prisoner may send for necessaries.

117. Charges for rent, etc., prohibited.

118. Prisoner, how conveyed to jail through another county.
119. Oliicsr or prisoner not liable to arrest.

§ 110. A person arrested, by virtue of an order ot arrest, in

' an action or special proceeding brought in a court of record;

or of an execution issued upon a judgment rendered in a
court of record; or surrendered in exoneration of his bail ;
must be safely kept in custody, in the manner prescribed
by law, and, except as otherwise prescribed in the next two sections, at his own expense, until he satisfies the judgment
rendered against him, or is discharged according to law.

§ 111. In the county of Kings, when the sheriff has
actually confined in jail a prisoner so arrested or surrendered, he must serve upon the plaintifff ’s attorney, as prescribed by law for the service of a paper upon an attorney
in an action, a written notice, stating that he has so coniined
the prisoner, and that the plaintifff is required to make the
payments specified in this section, in default whereof the
prisoner will be discharged. Within three days after service

of the notice, or six days, if the service is by mail, the
plaintifff must pay to the sheriff the sum of twenty-five
dollars, for the support of the prisoner for the first twenty
days, after his actual confinement in jail, unless in the
meantime he is discharged or admitted to the jail liberties.
At or before the expiration of each subsequent period of
twenty days, during which the prisoner has been so conlined, the plaintifff must pay a like sum to the sheriff, for the
prisoner’s support during the ensuing twenty days. If a
payment required by this section is not made, the prisoner
must be discharged. The sheriff must apply all the money
so paid, to the support of the prisoner, unless he is admitted
to the jail liberties or discharged; in which case he must
refund to the plaintifffs attorney a ratable portion of the
last payment, according to the period of time, during which
the prisoner was so confined.

§ 112. In any county except Kings, if a prisoner actually confined in jail, makes oath before the sheriff, jailor or
deputy-jailor, that he is unable to support himself during
his imprisonment, his support is a county charge.

§ 113. A sheriff or other oihcer shall not charge a person,
whom he has arrested, with any sum of money, or demand,
or receive from him money, or any valuable thing, for any
 victuals, or other thing, furnished or provided for
the oilicer, or for the prisoner, at any tavern, ale-house, or
public victualing or drinking-house. .

§ 114. A sheriff or other officer shall not demand or
receive from a person arrested by him, while in his custody,
a gratuity or reward, upon any pretense, for keeping the
prisoner out of jail; for going with him or Waiting for him
to find bail, or to agree with his adversary; or for any
other purpose.

§ 115. If a person arrested is kept in a house, other than
the jail of the county, the officer arresting him, or the person in whose custody he is, shall not demand or receive
from him any greater sum, for lodging, drink, victuals, or
any other thing, than has been theretofore prescribed by
the court of sessions of the county; or, if no rate has been
prescribed by the court of sessions, than is allowed by a
justice of the peace of the same town or city, upon proof
that the lodging or other thing was actually furnished, at
the request of the prisoner. And such an oiiicer or person
shall not, in any case or upon any pretext, demand or receive
compensation for strong, spirituous or fermented liquor, or
wine, sold or delivered to the prisoner.

§ 116. A prisoner so kept in a house, may send for and

- have beer, ale, cider, tea, coffee, milk and necessary food,

and such bedding, linen, and other necessary things as he

thinks fit, from whom he pleases, without detention of the

same or any part thereof by, or paying for the same, or any

part thereof to, the officer arresting him, or the person in
whose custody he is.

§ 117. A sheriff, jailor, or other officer, shall not demand
or receive money or any valuable thing, for chamber
rent in a  ; or any fee, compensation, or reward, for the
commitment, detaining in custody, release, or discharge of
a prisoner, other than the fees expressly. allowed therefore
by law.

9‘

§ 118. ‘A sheriff or other officer, who has lawfully

"arrested a prisoner, may convey his prisoner through one
or more other counties, in the ordinary route of travel, from

the place where the prisoner was arrested, to the place
where he is to be delivered or confined.

§ 119. A prisoner so conveyed, or the officer having him
in custody, is not liable to arrest in any civil action or
special proceeding, while passing through another county.

ARTICLE SECOND.

Jsnsg JAIL Drsorrnnm; um Rnounsrrons oonomuvma run CONFINEHENT
AND Cans or Pnrsormns.

830. 120. Jail in New-York city.
121. Jails in other counties.
122. Either of several jails may be used.
123. Civil and criminal prisoners to be kept separate.
124. Males and females to be kept separate.
125. Penalties.
126. Jail physician.
127. Removal of sick prisoners.
128. Sale of liquor in jails.
129. Permit, when granted.
180. Penalties for violation.
181. Service of papers on prisoner.
182. Sheriff’ to permit access for that purpose.
133. Prisoners under United States process.
184. Sheriif answerable for their custody.

§ 120. The building, now used as a jail in the city of
New-York, for the connnement of prisoners in civil causes,
shall continue to be the jail of the city and county of
New-York, for the confinement of such persons; and the
sheriff of the city and county of New-York shall have the

custody thereof, and of the prisoners in the same.

§ 121. The buildings, now used as the jails of the other

counties of the State, shall continue to be the jails of those
counties respectively, until other buildings have been
designated or erected for that purpose, according to law;
and the sheriff of each county shall have the custody of
the jail or jails of his county, and of the prisoners in the
same.

§ 122. The sheriff of a county, in which there is more
than one jail, may confine a prisoner in either, and may
remove him from one jail to another, Within the county,
whenever he deems it necessary for his safe keeping, or for
his appearance at court.

§ 123. A prisoner, arrested in a civil cause, must not be
kept in a room, in which any prisoner detained on a criminal

charge or conviction is confined.

§ 124. Male and female prisoners must not be put in the
same room; except that a husband and his wife may be put
or kept together, in a room wherein there are no other

prisoners.

§ 125. A sheriff, or other oilicer, who willfully violates

any of the foregoing provisions of this title, forfeits to the
person aggrieved, treble damages. He is also guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be punished accordingly. A conviction also operates as a forfeiture of his office.

§ 126. The board of supervisors of each county, except
New-York, must appoint some reputable physician, duly
authorized to practice medicine, as the physician to the jail
of the county. If there is more than one jail they must
appoint a physician to each. The common-council of the
city of New-York must appoint a similar physician, to the
jail of that city and county. The physician to a jail holds
his office at the pleasure of the board which appointed him,
except in the county of Kings. In that county, the term of

his office is three years.

§ 127. If the physician to a jail, or, in case of a vacancy,
a physician acting as such, and the Warden or jailor, certify
in Writing, that a prisoner, confined in the jail in a civil
cause, is in such a state of bodily health, that his life will be
endangered, unless he is removed to a hospital for treatment, the county judge, or, in the city and county of NewYork, one of the judges of the court of common pleas,

must, upon application, make an order, directing the removal of the prisoner to a hospital within the county,
designated by the judge; or, if there is none, to such nearest hospital as the judge directs; that the prisoner be kept
in the custody of the chief officer of the hospital, until he
has sufficiently recovered from his illness, to be safely returned to the jail; that the chief officer of the hospital
then notify the warden or jailor, and that the latter thereupon resume custody of the prisoner. If the prisoner
actually escapes, while going to, remaining at or returning
from the hospital, a new execution may be issued against
his person, if he was in custody by virtue of an execution;
or, if he was in custody by virtue of an order of arrest, a
new order of arrest may be granted, upon proof by affidavit of the facts specified in this section, without other
proof, and without an undertaking.

§ 128. Strong, spirituous or fermented liquor, or wine,
shall not, on any pretense, be sold within a building used
and established as a jaiL Spirituous, fermented or other
liquor, except cider, and that quality of beer called tablebeer, shall not be brought into a jail for the use of a person
confined therein, without a written permit by the physician
to the jail, which must be delivered to and kept by the
keeper thereof, specifying the quantity and kind of liquor
which may be furnished, the name of the prisoner for whom,
and the time during which the same may be furnished.

§ 129. Such a permit shall not be granted, unless the
physician is satisfied, that the liquor allowed to be furnished
is necessary for the health of the prisoner, for whose use it
is permitted; and that fact must be stated in the permit.

§ 130. A person who brings into or sells in a jail, strong,
spirituous, fermented or other liquor, or wine, contrary to
the foregoing provisions of this article; or a sheriff, keeper
of a  assistant-keeper, or an officer, or person employed

in or about a jail, who knowingly suffers liquor or wine to
be sold or used therein, contrary to this article, is guilty

of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished accordingly. A
conviction also operates as a forfeiture of his oiiice.

§ 131. A sheriff or jailor, upon whom a paper in an action or special proceeding, directed to a prisoner in his
custody, is lawfully served, or to whom such a paper is delivered for a prisoner, must, within two days thereafter,
deliver the same to the prisoner, with a note thereon of the
time of the service thereof upon, or the receipt thereof by
him. For a neglect or violation of this section, the sheriff
or jailor, guilty thereof, is liable to the prisoner for all
damages occasioned thereby.

§ 132. Subject to reasonable regulations, which the sheriff

’may establish for that purpose, a sheriff, jailor or other

officer, who has the custody of a prisoner, must permit
such access to him as is necessary, for the personal service
of a paper in’ an action or special proceeding, to which the
prisoner is a party, and Which must be personally served.

§ 133. A sheriff must receive into his jail and keep a
prisoner, committed to the same, by virtue of civil process
issued by a court of record, instituted under the authority
of the United States, until he is discharged by the due
course of the laws of the United States, in the same manner as if he was committed by virtue of a mandate in a
civil action, issued from a court of the State. The sheriff

may receive, to his own use, the money payable by the
United States for the use of the jail.

§ 134. A sheriff or jailor, to whose jail a prisoner is
committed, as prescribed in the last section, is answerable
for his safe keeping, in the courts of the United States,
according to the laws thereof.

ARTICLE THIRD.

Tncronunr Jms, AND mnronuur Rn-novu. or Pmsomms FRO! Jan.

135. When jail becomes unfit, etc., another to be designated.

136. Designation, how annulled. ‘

187. Copy of designation to be served on the sherii, etc.

138. Prisoners already upon jail liberties.

189. Jail liberties to prisoner, who becomes entitled thereto, before removal.
140. Id.; to prisoners removed.

141. When designation to be revoked, etc. ‘

142. Copy of revocation to be served on sheriff ; sheriff”s duty thereon.

148. Removal of prisoners in case of fire. v

144. What officer to act in case of absence, etc.

§ 135. If there is no jail in a county; or the jail becomes ‘
uniit or unsafe for the confinement of some or all of the;
prisoners; or is destroyed by fire, or otherwise; orif a pesti-j
lential disease breaks out in the jail, or in the vicinity of;
the jail, which the physician to the jail certifies, is likely to
endanger the health of any or all of the prisoners in the
jail; the county judge, or, in the city and county of NewYork, the chief judge of the court of common pleas, must,
by an instrument in writing, filed with the clerk of the
county, designate another suitable place within the county,
or the jail of a contiguous county, for the confinement of
some or all of the civil prisoners, as the case requires. The
place so designated thereupon becomes, to all intents and
purposes, except as otherwise prescribed in this article, the
jail of the county for which it has been so designated, and

for the purposes’ expressed in the instrument designating
the same.

§ 136. The designation may be modified or revoked, by :
the judge making the same, by a like instrument in writing, 1
filed with the clerk of the county.

§ 137 . The county clerk must,serve a copy of the desig- j
nation, duly certified by him, under his official seal, on the ;
sheriff and keeper of the jail of a contiguous county so?

designated. The sheriff of that county must, upon the
delivery of the sheriff of the county for which the designation is made, receive into his jail, and there safely keep,
all persons who may be lawfully confined therein, pursuant
to this article; and he is responsible for their safe keeping,
as if he was the sheriff of the county for which the designation is made.

§ 138. If a prisoner has been admitted to the liberties
of the jail of the county, for which the designation is made,
he must, notwithstanding, remain Within those liberties;
but he may be removed, by the sheriff, to whom he has
given bond for the liberties, to the jail or other place so
designated, and confined therein, in a case, where the sheriff
might confine him in the jail of his own county.

§ 139. If a person, who is arrested, before or after
the designation, by the sheriff of the county for which
the designation is made, becomes entitled, after the designation, and before his removal, to the liberties of the jail, he
must be admitted to the liberties of the jail of that county,
as if the designation had not been made; but he may be
removed by the sheriff to the jail, or other place, so designated, and confined therein, in a case, Where the sheriff
might confine him in the jail of his own county.

§ 140. If a person confined in or removed to the jail of a
contiguous county, designated as prescribed in this article,
becomes entitled to the liberties of the jail, the sheriff of
that county must admit him to the jail liberties, as if he
had been onginally arrested by that sheriff, on a mandate
directed to him.

§ 141. When a jail is erected for the county, for Whose
use the designation Was made, or its jail is rendered fit
and safe for the confinement of prisoners, or the reason
for the designation of another jail or place has otherwise

ceased to be operative, the designation must be revoked,
as prescribed in this article.

§ 142. The county clerk must immediately serve a copy
of the revocation, duly certified by him under his ofiicial
seal, upon the sheriff of the same county; Who must remove
the prisoners belonging to his custody, and confined Without his county, to his proper jail. If a prisoner has, been

_admitted to the jail liberties in the other county, he must

also be removed; and he is entitled to theliberties of the
jail of the county, to which he is removed, without a new
bond, as if he had been originally admitted to the jail liberties in that county; and the bond given by him applies
accordingly to those liberties.

§ 143. If, by reason of a jail, or a building near a jail,
being on lire, there is reason to apprehend that some or all
of the prisoners confined in the  may be injured, or may
escape, the sheriff or keeper of the jail may, in his discretion, remove them to some safe and convenient place, and
there confine them, until they can be safely returned to the
jail; or, if the jail is destroyed, or so injured, that it is
unfit or unsafe for the confinement of the prisoners, until a
designation is made, as prescribed in section 135 of this act.

§ 144. If the county judge, or the chief judge of the
court of common pleas for the city and county of NewYork, is absent or unable to act, or if his office is vacant, a
designation, or the revocation or modihcation thereof, as
prescribed in this article, may be made, in any county
except New-York, by the special county judge or the district-attorney, or, in the city and county of New-York, by
any judge of the court of common pleas.

ARTICLE FOURTH.

Jm. Lmmrrms; Esoarns.

145. Jail liberties in certain counties.

146. Id.; in other counties.

147. Id.; how laid out.

148. Copy to be kept posted in jail.

149. Who admitted to liberties.

150. Bond to be executed by prisoner; its contents.

151. For whom bond to be held.

152. Prisoner to be committed when surety is insumcient.
153. Surrender of prisoner by his sureties.

154. How surrender made.

155. What deemed and what not deemed an escape.

156. When court may order prisoner out of sherifs custody.
157. Prisoners committed for contempt.

158. Sherifs liability for escape.

159. Penalty for connivance at escape by a sheriff, etc.

§ 145. The following are the liberties of the jail for each
of the counties specified, to Wit:

For the city and county of New-York, the whole of that
city and county.

For the county of Onondaga, the whole of the city of
Syracuse. '

For the county of Monroe, the whole of the city of
Rochester.

For the county of Eric, the whole of the city of Buifalo.

For the county of Dutchess, the Whole of the city of
Poughkeepsie.

For the county of Kings, the whole of that county.

For the county of Albany, the whole of the city of Albany.

For the county of J eiferson, the whole of the city of
Watertown.

For the county of Herkimer, the whole of the village
of Herkimer.

For the county of Rensselaer, the whole of the city of
Troy.

§ 146. The liberties of the jail, in each of the other
counties of the State, as heretofore established, shall continue to be the liberties thereof, until they are altered, or
new liberties are established, as prescribed by law.

§ 147. Where the liberties of a jail are altered or established, by resolution of the board of supervisors, as prescribed by law, a space of ground, adjacent to the jail,
and not exceeding five hundred acres in quantity, must
be laid out as the jail liberties, in a square or rectangle as
nearly as may be; but a stream of Water, canal, street, or
highway, may be adopted as an exterior line, notwithstanding it is not in a straight line, or is not at right angles with
the other exterior lines of the liberties. A resolution
establishing or altering jail liberties, must contain a particular description of their boundaries; and as soon as may be
after its adoption, the boundaries must be designated by
monuments, enclosures, posts, or other visible and permanent marks, at the expense of the county.

§ 148. The county clerk must, Within one week after a,
resolution of the board of supervisors, establishing or alter-:

ing jail liberties, has been filed in his office, deliver an
exemplilied copy thereof to the keeper of the jail; who
must keep the same exposed to public view, in an open and
public part of the jail, and exhibit it to each person admitted
to the liberties of the jail, at the time of his executing a

bond for that purpose.

§ 149. A person in the custody of a sheriff,. by virtue of
an order of arrest; or of an execution in a civil action; or
in consequence of a surrender in exoneration of his bail; is
entitled to be admitted to the liberties of the jail,. upon
executing a bond ‘to the sheriff, as prescribed in the next section.

§ 150. The bond must be executed by the prisoner,;
and one or more sufflcient sureties, residents, and house-;
holders or freeholders of the county, in a penalty at leastj

twice the sum, in which the sheriff was required to hold the
defendant to bail, if he is in custody under an order of arrest,
or has been surrendered in exoneration of his bail, before
judgment; or directed to be collected by the execution, if
he is in custody under an execution; or remaining uncollected upon a judgment against him, if he has been surrendered after judgment; conditioned, that the person so
in custody shall remain a. prisoner, and shall not, at any

time, or in any manner, escape or go without the liberties

of the jail, until discharged by due course of law.

§ 151. A bond so taken is held for the indemnity of the
sheriff taking it, and of the party at whose instance the
prisoner executing it is confined.

§ 152. If a sheriff, who has taken such a bond, discovers that a surety therein is insufficient, he may commit the
‘prisoner who executed it to close confinement in the jail,
until another bond, with good and suiiicient sureties, is

offered.

§ 153. One or more of the sureties, in a bond given for
the liberties of a jail, may surrender the principal, at any
time before judgment is rendered against them in an action
on the bond: but they are not exonerated thereby, from a

liability incurred before making the surrender.

§ 154. The surrender must be made as follows. The
surety or sureties making it must take the principal to
the keeper of the jail, who must, upon his or their written
requisition to that effect, take the principal into his custody,
and indorse upon the bond given for the liberties, an
acknowledgment of the surrender; and also, if required,
give the surety or sureties a certificate, acknowledging the

surrender.

§ 155. The going at large, Within the liberties of the jail
in Which he is in custody, of a prisoner who has executed
such a bond, or of a prisoner Who would be entitled to the
liberties upon executing such a bond, is not an escape. But
the going at large, beyond the liberties, by a prisoner, Without the assent of the party at Whose instance he is in custody, is an escape; and the sheriff in whose custody he. Was,
has the same authority to pursue and retake him, as if he

‘had escaped from the jail. Such an escape forfeits the

bond for the liberties, if any; subject to the provisions of
the next article of this title.

§ 156. Where a person, who has been indicted for a criminal offense, is held by a sheriff, by virtue of a mandate in
a civil action or special proceeding, the court, in which the
indictment is pending, may make an order, requiring the
officer, to whom the process for the arrest of the person
indicted is directed, to take him out of the custody of the
sheriff, and bring him before the court; whereupon the
court may make such disposition of the prisoner, as to it

seems proper. The sheriff must obey such an order.

§ 157. A prisoner, committed to jail upon process for
contempt, or committed for misconduct in a case prescribed
by law, must be actually confined and detained Within the
jail, until he is discharged by due course of law, or is
removed to another jail or place of confinement, in a case
prescribed by law. A sheriff or keeper of a jail, Who suffers such a prisoner to go or be at large out of his jail;
except by virtue of a Writ of habeas corpus, or by the special
direction of the court committing him, or in a case specially
prescribed by law; is liable to the party aggrieved, for his
damages sustained thereby, and is guilty of a misdemeanor.
If the commitment Was for the non-payment of a sum of
money, the amount thereof, with interest, is the measure of

damages.

§ 158. Where a prisoner, in a sheriff’s custody, goes or is
at large beyond the liberties of the jail, without the assent
of the party at whose instance he is in custody, the sheriff
is answerable therefore, in an action against him, as follows:

1. If the prisoner was in custody by virtue of an order
of arrest, or in consequence of a surrender in exoneration
of his bail, before judgment, the sheriff is answerable to the
extent of the damages sustained by the plaintifff.

2. If the prisoner was in custody by virtue of any other
mandate, or in consequence of a surrender in exoneration
of his bail, after judgment, the sheriff is answerable for the
debt, damages, or sum of money, for which the prisoner was

committed.

§ 159. A sheriff or other officer, who demands or receives
a reward, gratuity, or other valuable thing, to procure, assist,
connive at, or permit an escape of a prisoner in his custody,
is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished accordingly. A conviction also operates as a forfeiture of his

office, and disqualiiies him forever thereafter from holding
the same.

ARTICLE FIFTH.

Acrron UPON AND Assromnmr or A Bonn FOB Jun Ltnnnrrns.

SIG. 160. Defence in action by sherif on bond.

161. Judgment against sheriff to be evidence against snreties, etc.
162. Summary judgment for sherif.

163. Requisites of application therefore.

164. Such judgment when stayed. Id.; when vacated.

165. Judgment against sherif is evidence of damages.

166. Assignment of bond.

167. Action on bond by assignee ; damages recoverable.

168. Such assignment bars action against sheriff.

169. Defence in action by assignee.

170. Stay of proceedings where assignment is not taken.
171. Defence of sheriff in action for escape.

§ 160. In an action brought by a sheriff on a bond for
the jail liberties, it is a defense, that the prisoner voluntarily

returned to the liberties of the jail from which he escaped,
or was recaptured by, or surrendered to the sheriff, from
whose custody he escaped, before the commencement of
the action. The defendants may make that or any other
defense to the action, which might be made by the sheriff,
to an action against him for the escape.

§ 161. But if judgment has been rendered against the:
sheriff, in an action brought for the escape, and due notice 5
of the pendency of the action was given to the prisoner and i
his sureties, to enable them to defend the same, the judg- 3
ment against the sheriff is conclusive evidence of his right 3
to recover against the prisoner and his sureties, to Whom
the notice was given, as to any matter which Was or might
have been controverted, in the action against the sheriff.

§ 162. In an action brought by a sheri:E on a bond for ;
the jail liberties, if it appears to the court, upon a motion 
made in behalf of the sheriff, that judgment has been rendered against him, for the escape of the prisoner, and that
due notice of the pendency of the action against him, was
given to the prisoner and his sureties, to enable them to
defend the same, the court must order a summary judgment for the plaintiE; and judgment must be entered
accordingly, with costs.

§ 163. But to entitle a sheriff to move for such a judgment, he must have served a copy of his complaint, and:
given twenty days‘ notice of the motion. a

§ 164. If it appears on the hearing of the motion, that»
the defendants have a meritorious defense, Which was not ’
controverted in the action against the sheriff, and which by 
law could not have been so controverted, the court may
stay proceedings on the judgment, with such limitations and
upon such terms, as it deems just,-until a trial in the action ;
but the judgment must stand as a security for the sheriff.

If the defense is established, the court must vacate the
judgment, and render judgment for the defendant.

§ 165. In an action brought by a sheriff on a bond for the
jail liberties, a judgment against him for the escape of the
prisoner, is evidence of the damages sustained by him, as
if it had been collected; and he may recover his reasonable
attorney’s and counsel fees, and other expenses in defending the action against him, as part of his damages.

§ 166. If a bond for the jail liberties is forfeited, the
party at Whose instance the prisoner Was confined, or, in
case of his death, his executor or administrator, is entitled
to an assignment thereof; Which must be executed by the
sheriff who took the bond, or, in case of a vacancy in his
oilice, by his under-sheriff, and acknowledged or proved, and
certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded in the

county.

§ 167. The person to whom such an assignment has been
made, may maintain an action on the bond, as assignee of
the sheriff taking the same, in a case Where an action might
be maintained by the sheriff ; and he may recover the same
damages for the breach of the condition, which he might
have recovered in an action against the sheriff, for the

escape.

§ 168. The acceptance of an assignment of such a bond,
is a bar to an action, by or in behalf of the assignee, against
the sheriff or other officer making the same, for an escape
by the prisoner executing the bond, amounting to a breach
of the condition thereof, unless the escape Was with the

assent of the sheriff or other officer.

§ 169. In an action brought by the assignee of the bond,
the defendant may make any defense, which he might

make, if the action was brought in the name and for the
beneht of the sheriff. '

§ 170. If the person entitled to an assignment of a bond
for the jail liberties, in lieu of taking the same, brings
an action against the sheriff for the escape, the court may,
except Where the escape was made with the sheriffs
assent, stay proceedings upon a judgment recovered against
the sheriff, with such limitations and upon such terms as it
deems just, until he has had a reasonable time to prosecute
the bond, and»collect a judgment recovered thereon.

§ 171. In an action against a sheriff or other officer, for
the escape of a prisoner, it is a defense, that the escape was

Without the assent of the defendant, and that at the commencement of the action, he had the prisoner Within the

liberties, either by his voluntary return, or by recapture.

TITLE III.

Application of the foregoing provisions to the proceedings of
the coroner, where the sherzjzf is a party.

81m. 172. Duties of coroner when sherif is a party.
173. Any one of the coroners may act.
174. Arrest of sherif by coroner.
175. Sherif; how condned.
176. Place of condnement to be deemed a jail.
177. Sheriff to be admitted to jail liberties; liability of coroner for sherifs

escape.

178. Coroner may prosecute, etc., bond for liberties.
179. Duties of coroner where sherid‘ is plaintifff.
180. Such prisoner entitled to jail liberties, etc.
181. Escape of such prisoner.

§ 172. In an action or special proceeding to Which the
sheriff of a county is a party, a coroner of the same county
has all the power and is subject to all the duties of a
sheriff, in a cause to which the sheriff is not a party;

except as otherwise specially prescribed by law.

§ 173. In a case specilied in the last section, a mandate,
which would be directed to the sherili if he was not a

party, must be directed, either to a particular coroner, or
generally to the coroners of the county. Where a mandate is directed generally to the coroners of a county,
or requires them to do any act, it may be executed, and
a return thereto may be made and signed, by one of
them ; but such an act or return does not affect the others.

§ 174. Where a mandate, requiring the arrest of the
sheriff of the county, is directed to a coroner, he must execute the same in the manner prescribed by law, with
respect to the execution of a similar mandate by a sheriff;
and he is authorized to take an undertaking on the arrest,
or a bond for the jail liberties, to himself, in his name
of oiiice, in a like case, and in like manner, and with like
effect, as Where such a bond or undertaking may be taken
by a sheriff.

§ 175. Where the actual confinement of a sheriff by a
coroner, on a mandate, is required or authorized by law, he

must be confined by the coroner, in a house situated Within
the liberties of the jail of the county, other than the
sheri1f’s house, or the jail, in the same manner as a sheri:E
is required by law to confine a prisoner in the 

§ 176. That house thereupon becomes the jail of the
county, for the use of the coroner; and each provision of

law relating to the jail, or to an escape from the jail, applies
thereto, While the sheriff is confined therein.

§ 177. A sheriff so arrested must be admitted to the
liberties of the jail of the county, in a like case, and upon
executing a like bond to the coroner, as prescribed by law
for a prisoner in the sheriff ’s custody. For an escape of the
sheriff from the liberties, the coroner is liable, in the same

manner, and to the same extent, as a sheriff for a similar
escape; and he may make the same defense as a sheriff.

§ 178. The coroner may prosecute a bond for the liberties taken by him, and is entitled to all the rights and
subject to all the liabilities prescribed by law, with respect
to a similar bond taken by a sheriff. The bond may be
assigned by him, to the party at whose instance the sheriff
Was arrested, and the same proceedings may be had thereupon as upon a bond taken and assigned by a sheriff in a
similar case.

§ 179. A person arrested by a coroner, in an action or
special proceeding, in which the sheriff of the county is
plaintifff, must be confined in the jail of the county, in a
case Where such a confinement is required or authorized
by law; but the coroner is not liable for an escape of the
prisoner from the jail, after he has been confined therein.
A person so coniined must be kept and treated in all
respects like a prisoner confined by the sheriii.

§ 180. A person so arrested by a coroner, is entitled to
be discharged, or to the liberties of the jail, as the case requires, upon giving a bond or an undertaking to the coroner, in the like manner, and in a like case, in which a person arrested by a sheriff would be entitled to be so
discharged, or to the liberties. The bond or undertaking
so given, must be in all respects similar to that required to
be given to a sheriff; and‘ it has the like effect, and may be
assigned and proceeded upon in like manner.

§ 181. A coroner is answerable for an escape of a prisoner admitted by him to the liberties of the jail, in the
same manner and to the same extent, as a sheriff, and may
interpose a like defense.

TITLE IV.

Powers, duties, and liabilities of an incoming and outgoing slzerizf, respectively, touching the matters included
in this chapter.

182. Certincate to be furnished to new sherif.
188. Powers of former sheriff ; when to cease.

184. Jails, process, etc., to be delivered to new sherif.

185. Former sherin‘ to execute instrument.

186. Former sherm to execute certain process.

187. Certain orders to be delivered to and returned by new sherim
188. Delivery of prisoners, process, etc., how enforced.

189. Under-sheriff, etc., when to comply with foregoing provisions.

§ 182. Where a new sheriff has been elected or appointed,
and has qualiiied and given the security required by law,
the clerk of the county must furnish to the new sheriff a
certificate, under his hand and official seal, stating that the
person so appointed or elected, has so qualified’ and given
security.

§ 183. Upon the commencement of the new sheriffs term
of office, and the service of the certificate on the former
sheriff, the latter’s powers as sheriff cease, except as otherWise expressly prescribed by law.

§ 184. Within ten days after the service of the certificate,
upon the former sheriff he must deliver to his successor:

1. The jail, or if there are two or more, the jails of the
county, with all their appurtenances, and the property of
the county therein. 8

2. All the prisoners then coniined in the jail or jails.

3. All "process, orders, commitments, and all other papers
and documents, authorizing, or relating to the confinement
or custody of a prisoner, or, if such a process, order, or commitment has been returned, a statement in writing of the
contents thereof, and when and where it was returned.

4. All mandates, then in his hands, except such as he has

fully executed, or has begun to execute, by the collection

of money thereon, or by a seizure of or levy on money or
other property, in pursuance thereof.

§ 185. At the time of the delivery, the former sheriff

must execute an instrument, reciting the property, docu-i

ments, and prisoners delivered, specifying particularly the l

process or other authority by which each prisoner was committed and is detained, and whether the same has been
returned or is delivered to the new sheriff. The instrument
must be delivered to the new sheriff, who must acknowledge, in writing, upon a duplicate thereof, the receipt of the
property, documents and prisoners, therein specified ; and
deliver such duplicate and acknowledgment to the former
sheriff.

§ 186. Notwithstanding the election or appointment of a :
new sheriff, the former sheriff must return, in his own name, each mandate which he has fully executed; and must pro- i

ceed with and complete the execution of each mandate
which he has begun to execute, in the manner specified in subdivision fourth of the last section but one.

§ 187. Where a person, arrested by virtue of an order of

arrest, is confined, either in jail, orto the liberties thereof,.at .
the time of assigning and delivering the jail to the new:
sheriff, the order, if it is not then returnable, must be

delivered to the new sheriff, and be returned by him at the

return day thereof, with the proceedings of the former
sheriff and of the new sheriff thereon. 

§ 188. If the former sheriff neglects or refuses to deliver
to his successor, the jail, or any of the property, documents
or prisoners in his charge, as prescribed in this title, his
successor must, notwithstanding, take possession of the jail,
and of the property of the county therein, and the custody
of the prisoners therein connned, and proceed to compel the
delivery of the documents withheld, as prescribed by law.

§ 189. If, at the time when a new sheriff qualifies, and gives the secuirty required by law, the office of the former sheriff is executed by his under-sheriff, or by a coroner of the county, or  aperson specially authorized for that purpose, he must comply with the provisions of this title, and perform the duties thereby required of the former sheriff.

CHAPTER III.

CIVIL JURISDICTION OF THE PRINCIPAL COURTS
OF RECORD; ORGANIZATION, MEMBERS, AND OFFICERS THEREOF; DISTRIBUTION AND DISPATCH
OF BUSINESS THEREIN. ‘

TITLE I.— THE COURT OF APPEALS.

TITLE II.— THE SUPREME COURT, INCLUDING THE CIRCUIT COURTS.
TITLE III.—T1IE SUPERIOR CITY COURTS.
TITLE IV.— THE MARINE COURT or Tm: em or NEW-YORK.

TITLE V.— Tm: COUNTY COURTS.

TITLE I.

The court of appeals.

ARTICLE 1. J urlsdiction, and mode of exercising the same; general powers; terms
and sittings.
2. The clerk of the court.
8. The State reporter; publication and distribution of the reports.

ARTICLE FIRST.

JURxsDIcT1o1t, AND Mom: or EXEBCISING THE sum; GENERAL Pownns; TERMS
AND Srrrmos.

BIO. 190. Cases in which court of appeals has jurisdiction.
191. Exceptions and qualihcations.
192. Appeals from certain orders, how heard.

193. Court may mane rules.
194. Remittitur; when judgment absolute to be rendered, and proceedings

thereupon.

195. Second and subsequent appeals.
196. Times and places of holding terms.

19?. Court may be held in any building; adjournments.
198. Omcers to be appointed by court.

§ 190. The court of appeals has exclusive jurisdiction to

review, upon appeal, every actual determination, made at a ;

general term, by the supreme court, Or by either of the

superior city courts, in either of the following cases, and
no others:

1. Where a final judgment has been rendered, in an action
commenced in either of those courts, or brought there from
another court; and, upon such’ an appeal, to review an
interlocutory udgment or intermediate order, involving
the merits, and necessarily affecting the ‘dual judgment.

2. Where’ an order has been made in such an action,
affecting a substantial right, and not resting in discretion,
which either (1) in effect determines the action, and prevents a final judgment, or (2) discontinues the action, or
(8) grants or refuses a new trial, or (4) strikes out a pleading, or part of a pleading, or (5) decides an interlocutory
application, or a question of practice, or (6) determines a
statutory provision of the State to be unconstitutional, and
the determination appears from the reasons given for the
decision, or is necessarily implied in the decision.

3. Where a final order, affecting a substantial right, has
been made in a special proceeding, or upon a summary
application in an action, after judgment; and, upon such an
appeal, to review any intermediate order, involving the

merits, and necessarily affecting the order appealed from.

§ 191. But the jurisdiction conferred by the last section
is subject to the following limitation s, exceptions, and conditions:

1. An appeal cannot be taken, from an order granting a
new trial, on a case or exceptions, unless the notice of appeal
contains an assent on the part of the appellant, that if the
order is afiirmed, judgment absolute shall be rendered
against the appellant.

2. An appeal cannot be taken,in an action commenced in
a court of a justice of the peace, or in the marine court of
the city of New-York, or in .a district court of that city, or
in a justices’ court of a city, unless the court below allows
the appeal, by an order made at the general term which rendered the determination, or at the next general term after
judgment was entered thereupon. An action discontinued,

because the answer set forth matter showing that the title
to real property came in question, and afterwards prosecuted in another. court, is not deemed to have been commenced in the court wherein the answer was interposed,
Within the meaning of this subdivision.

3. An appeal cannot be taken from a judgment, or from
an order granting or refusing a new trial, except in an
action or special proceeding affecting the title to real property, or an interest therein, if the matter in controversy,
excluding costs, is less than five hundred dollars; or, where
the action was brought in the city court of Brooklyn, and
the complaint demands judgment for a sum of money only,
or to recover one or more chattels, if it is less than one
thousand dollars; unless the court below, by an order made
at the general term which rendered the determination, or
at the next general term after judgment was entered thereupqn, allows the appeal, on the ground that a question of
law is involved, which ought to be reviewed by the court
of appeals.

If an appeal is taken, by the plaintifff, from a judgment
rendered in an action not founded upon a contract, the sum
for which the complaint demands judgment, or, if the action
is to recover one or more chattels, the value of the chattels,
as stated in the complaint, is deemed to be the amount of
the matter in controversy, within the last subdivision, unless
the defendant has interposed a counterclaim; in which case
the counterclaim must be included, in determining the
amount in controversy.

§ 192. An appeal from an order, under subdivision second
of the last section but one, except an order which in effect
determines the action and prevents a final judgment, or discontinues the action, or grants or refuses a new trial upon a
case or exceptions, may be noticed for hearing on a motion
day, and heard as a motion.

§ 193. The court may from time to time make, alter,
and amend, rules, not inconsistent with the constitution or

statutes of the State, regulating the practice and proceedings
in the court, and the admission of attorneys and counsellors
at law, to practice in all the courts of record of the State.

§ 194. The judgment or order of the court of appeals
must be remitted to the court below, to be enforced accordA ing to law. Upon an appeal from an order granting anew

trial, on a case or exceptions, if the court of appeals determines that no error was committed in granting the new

trial, it must render judgment absolute upon the right of
the appellant; and after its judgment has been remitted to
the court below, an assessment of damages, or any other
proceeding, requisite to render the judgment effectual, may
be had in the latter court.

§ 195. Upon a second and each subsequent appeal, , including a case where a ' former appeal has been dismissed
for a defect or irregularity, the time of iiling the return, upon
the first appeal, determines the place of the cause upon the
calendar.

§ 196. The terms of the court of appeals must be appointed to be held at such times and places as the court
thinks proper, and continued as long as the public interest
requires.

§ 197. A term of the court may be appointed to be held
in a building, other than that designated by law for holding courts. A term may be adjourned from the place where
it is appointed to be held, to another place in the same city.
One or more of the judges may adjourn a term, without day.
or to a day certain.

§ 198. The court may, from time to time, by an order
entered in its minutes, appoint and remove its clerk, its
reporter, and such attendants as it deems necessary.

ARTICLE SECOND.

Tnncmnxorrnncounr.

81:0. 199. Clerk of the court of appeals to give bond; rooms for his office.

200. To appoint a deputy. Powers of deputy.

201. May employ assistants in his office. Special deputy.

202. Is successor of former clerk of court of appeals:

208. Money in custody of clerk to be deposited in bank.

204. Clerk to report to court of appeals, concerning money.

205. Amount deposited to be certified by cashier.

206. Court may order money to be invested; restrictions asto drawing money

from bank.
207. Court may appoint person to examine accounts.
208. Court may make rules concerning money.

§ 199. The clerk of the court of appeals, before entering j
upon the duties of his office. must subscribe, and file ;
the constitutional oath of office, and must execute and file A
in the comptroller’s office, a bond to the people of the State, 2

in the penalty of twenty-five thousand dollars, With two
sufficient sureties, approved by the comptroller, and conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of his oiiice.
If the bond is forfeited by a breach of its condition, the
court of appeals must, by order, direct an action to be
brought thereon. The money recovered must be applied,
under the direction of the court of appeals, to indemnify
the persons aggrieved by the breach, in proportion to their
respective losses, and to make good any other loss, occasioned by the breach. The clerk must keep his office at
the city of Albany, and the trustees of the State-hall must
assign him suitable rooms therein, for that purpose.

§ 200. The clerk, by a Writing, under his hand and the
seal of the court, filed in his office, from time to time must
appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a deputy-clerk, who
is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed
by law. Before entering upon his duties, the deputy-clerk
must subscribe, and file in the clerk's office, the constitutional oath of oilice. While the clerk is absent from his
office, or from the sitting of the court, or the odice of clerk

is vacant, the deputy-clerk has all the powers, and is subject
to all the duties of the clerk.

§ 201. The clerk may, with the approbation of the secretary of State, comptroller and treasurer, employ as many
assistants in his office, as are necessary. He may from time
to time appoint, and at pleasure remove, his assistants.
Each assistant is entitled to a compensation, fixed and to
be paid as prescribed by law. The clerk may appoint one
of his assistants as special deputy-clerk: who possesses, in
the absence of the clerk and the deputy-clerk, the same
power and authority as the clerk, at any sitting of the court
which he attends, with respect to the business transacted
thereat.

§ 202. All money, stocks, securities, bonds, mortgages and
other things in action, and other property, which were possessed by the last clerk of the court of appeals, elected by the
people, by virtue of his office, have been transferred to, and
have become possessed by and vested in, the clerk appointed
by the court, as the successor in office of the last elected
clerk, notwithstanding the change in the mode of appointment to the oiiice, and in the tenure thereof. '

§ 203. All money, now in the custody or under the control of the clerk, and all other money which may hereafter
be paid to or received by him, on account of a fund, or in a
cause, must be deposited, until invested as prescribed in this article, in such bank or banks as the court of appeals
directs. Accounts thereof must be kept with the banks,
in manner and form as the court directs.

§ 204. On the first Tuesday of January, and on the first
Tuesday of July, in each year, the clerk must transmit to
the chief-judge, a statement, verified by his affidavit, of all
money then remaining in court or in his hands, which must

specify :

1. The fund, or the title of the cause, in or on account of
which each sum of money was paid. ~

2. The party by whom it was paid, and generally for
what purpose.‘ —

3. The time of payment and the amount paid.
4. The bank in which it is deposited.

§ 205. The statement must be accompanied with a certificate of the cashier of each bank, in which a deposit is stated
to have been made, to the effect, that the total amount
stated to be deposited is actually in the bank, placed to the
credit of the clerk, as clerk of the court of appeals, and not
mingled with any other account.

§ 206. The court may, by order, direct any portion of the
money to be invested in the public debt of the State, or of
the United States, or in approved interest-bearing mortgages
upon real property. It may in like manner direct any sum
of money or any security, to be transferred or disposed of,
as the court thinks proper. The clerk shall not invest any
money, except pursuant to such a direction. Money deposited shall not be drawn from the bank, except on a check
signed by the clerk, and countersigned by the chief-judge,
or, in his absence, by an associate judge of the court.

§ 207. The court may also, from time to time, appoint a
suitable person to examine the accounts kept by, and the
securities in the custody of the clerk, who shall be paid by
the comptroller, for that service, a reasonable sum, certified
by the chief-judge.

§ 208. The court may also, from time to time, make such
regulations, concerning the money and securities specified
in this article, making deposits, keeping accounts, and drawing money, as it deems proper; but each regulation, so
made, must be entered in the minutes.

ARTICLE THIRD.

Tma: Burn Raronrnn; Punnrcurron mm Drsrnrmrrrox or run Rn-roars.

209. State reporter is the reporter of court of appeals.

210. His duty.
211. Not to be interested in publication ; contracts for publication.

212. Copyright of reports.

213. Secretary of State to distribute reports.

214. Unreported decisions, etc., to be delivered by reporter to successor.
215. Opinions, etc., not to be delivered, except, etc.

216. Certain opinions to be deposited with clerk.

§ ‘.209. The reporter appointed by the court of appeals is
styled the State reporter; and each provision of a statute,
wherein the State reporter is mentioned, applies to the
oiiicer thus appointed.

§ 210. The State reporter must report every cause, determined in the court of appeals, which the court directs him,
or which the public interest, in his judgment, requires him
to report. To enable him to perform that duty, the judges
of the court must deliver to him the written opinions, rendered in each, cause so determined. Each decision of the
court, which is reported, must be so reported as soon as
practicable after it is made; and if the reporter neglects
faithfully to perform that duty, it is the duty of the court
to remove him from office.

§ 211. The State reporter shall not have any pecuniary

L interest in the reports: but a contract for the publication

thereof, under his supervision, must, from time to time, be
made, in behalf of the people, by the State reporter, secretary of State, and the comptroller, With the person or
persons who agree to furnish to the secretary of State,
so many copies of each volume, as may be needed to enable
him to comply with the next section but one; and also to
publish and sell the reports, on terms the most advantageousto the public, regard being had to the proper execution of the work, and at a price not exceeding three dollars
for a volume of not less than five hundred pages. Each
contract, so entered into, must provide for the publication of
the reports, for three years from the expiration of the time,
specified for that purpose in the last contract. If the State
reporter, secretary of State, and comptroller unite in determining, that a contract has not been faithfully kept by the
person or persons agreeing so to publish the reports, they
may, by an instrument in Writing under their hands, filed
in the oiiice of the secretary of State, annul the same from
a time specified in the instrument; and thereupon they may
enter into a new contract, for the publication of the reports,
for three years from the time so specified Before entering
into a contract, the State reporter, secretary of State, and
comptroller must advertise for, receive, and consider proposals for the publication of the reports.

§ 212. The State reporter, or any other person, shall not
obtain a copyright for the opinions contained in the reports; and the same may be published by any person. But
the copyright of the statements of facts, of the head-notes,
and of_ all other notes or references, prepared, by the State
reporter, must be taken by, and shall be vested in the secretary of State, for the benefit of the people of the State.

§ 213. Of the copies of each volume of the reports, furnished to the secretary of State, he must deliver one to the
clerk of each county, for the use of the county, and deposit
one in the oiiice of the attorney-general, one with the clerk
of the court of appeals, for the use of that court, and three
in the State library.

§ 214. A State reporter must, on the appointment of his
successor, deliver to him all papers in his hands, pertaining
to a cause which he has not reported, or which are not necessary to be retained by him, to complete the publication of
a volume, which is then partly printed.

§ 215. A State reporter, after the expiration of his term

A of office, shall not deliver a paper specified in the last section, or a copy thereof, to any person other than his successor
in office, or the publisher of a partly printed volume; except
that a copy of such a paper may be furnished by him, during
a vacancy in the office, to a judge of the court, or to the
attorney for a party to the cause to which it relates.

§ 216. The State reporter must deposit with the clerk of
the court, all opinions delivered to him, which are not to be
reported, immediately after the publication of the reports
of the other cases, decided at the same time. They must
be properly filed and preserved by the clerk.

 

TITLE II.

The supreme court, including the o7?rou2't cowrts.

ARTICLE 1. Jurisdiction and powers; designations of terms; distribution of business among the terms and judges; attendants upon the sittings;
miscellaneous provisions.

2. The supreme court reporter.
3. Stenographers.

ARTICLE FIRST.

J UBIBDIOTION AND Pownns; Dnsremrrron or Tamas; Drsrnmvnon or BUSINESS AMONG THE Tnnms AND J UDGE8; Arrmnnsnrs UPON THE Srrrmas;
MISCELLANEOUS Pnovrsroxs.

217. General jurisdiction of supreme court.

218. Supreme court may change place of trial of actions pending in other
courts.

219. Judicial departments; general terms.

220. Presiding and associate justices; how long to act.

221. Vacancies; how filled.

222. Assignment of duties to justice whose designation is revoked.
223. Designation, etc., to be filed with secretary of State.

224. Presiding and associate justices may act out of their departments.
225. Times and places of holding general terms; how appointed.

226. Appointment to be published.

227. Appointment may be made or filed after the prescribed time.

228. When associate justice to preside, etc.

229. Justice in place of one disqualihed.

Bac. 230. General term, held by two justices. Re-argument, etc.

. When cause to be heard in another department._

. Appointments of special terms, circuit courts, and courts of oyer and

terminer.

Publication of appointments.

Governor may appoint extraordinary terms; justices to hold them.
General powers and duties of justices.

Governor may appoint in N ew-York city, judge of other court to hold

terms. ' .

Governor to designate justices to hold courts in certain cases.

Place of holding the terms.

Special terms adjourned to chambers; trials thereat.

Judges of superior court of Buiihlo may make orders.

. What judges may perform duties of justice at chambers.

. Officers required to attend general term. Sheriif’s duty.

. Fees of such oilicers; how paid.


§ 217. The general jurisdiction in law and equity, which
the supreme court of the State possesses, under the provisions of the constitution, includes all the jurisdiction which
was possessed and exercised by the supreme court of the
colony of New York, at any time, and by the court of chancery in England, on the 4th day of July, 17 7 6; with the
exceptions, additions, and limitations, created and imposed
by the constitution and laws of the State. Subject to
those exceptions and limitations, the supreme court of the
State has all the powers and authority of each of those
courts, and exercises the same in like manner.

§ 218. The supreme court, upon the application of either
party, may, and, in a- proper case, must make an order, directing that an issue of fact, joined in an action or special
proceeding pending in any other court of record, except a
superior city court, the marine court of the city of NewYork, or a county court, be tried at a circuit court in another county, on such terms, and under such regulations as
it deems just; and thereupon the issue must be tried accordingly. After the trial, the clerk of the county, in which it
has taken place, must certify the minutes thereof, which
must be filed With the clerk of the court, in which the action
or special proceeding is pending. The subsequent proceedings in the last mentioned court must be the same, as if the
issue had been tried therein.

§ 219. The departments, into which the State is divided,
for the purposes of organizing and holding general terms of
the supreme court, are styled, in this act, judicial departments. There is a general term of the supreme court in each
judicial department, composed of a presiding justice and
two associate justices, designated from the Whole bench of
justices of the supreme court, as prescribed in the next two sections. The justices so designated are styled in this act,
general term justices.

§ 220. A presiding justice shall act as such, during his
omcial term as a justice of the supreme court, and an associate justice for five years from the thirty-first day of December, next after his designation ; or until the earlier close of
his official term. But the governor may, at any time. upon
the Written request of a general term justice, revoke his
designation.

§ 221. Within three months before a vacancy is to occur
by lapse of time, or as soon after its occurrence as practicable, the governor must designate, from the Whole bench of

justices of the supreme court, another presiding or associate
justice, as the case requires. The person so designated shall

act as presiding or associate justice, for the period specified
in the last section. When a vacancy occurs, for any cause
except lapse of time, the governor must designate a presiding or associate justice, as the case requires. An associate
justice, thus designated, shall act for his predecessor’s unexpired time, or until the earlier close of his ofiicial term.

§ 222. Where the governor revokes the designation of a
general term justice, as prescribed in the last section but
one, he may prescribe the duties to be performed by that
justice, in holding court in any part of the State, from the

time of such revocation until the taking effect of the next
appointment of terms, as prescribed in section 232 of this
act, for the judicial department to which that justice belongs.

§ 223. A designation of a general term justice, or a revocation thereof, must be in writing, and filed in the oflce of
the secretary of State. The request of the justice Whose
designation is revoked, must be filed with the revocation.

§ 224. A presiding justice, designated for a judicial
department, may preside at a general term held in another
department, if the presiding justice of that department
is absent, or disqualified from acting; and an associate justice may act as such, at a general term held in another
department, in place of an associate justice of that department, Who is in like manner absent or disqualined.

§ 225. On or before the first day of December, in the
year eighteen hundred and seventy-six, and each second
year thereafter, the general term justices in each judicial department, or a majority of them, must appoint the
times and places for holding the general terms of the
supreme court, Within their judicial department, for two
years from the first day of January, of the year then next
following. They must so designate at least one general
term in each year, to be held in each of the judicial districts
composing the department.

§ 226. An appointment so made must be signed by the
justices making it, and filed, on or before the fifteenth day
of December of the same year, in the office of the secretary
of State, who must immediately thereafter publish a copy
thereof in the newspaper printed at Albany, in Which legal
notices are required to be published, at least once in each
week, for four successive Weeks. The expense of the publication is payable out of the treasury of the State.

§ 227. If an appointment of general terms is not made or

' filed, before the expiration of the time specified therefore in
the last two sections, it may be made or filed at the earliest
convenient time thereafter; and the terms appointed thereby
may be held pursuant to the same, after it has been published for the length of time prescribed in the last section.

§ 228. If a presiding justice is not present, at the time
and place appointed for holding a general term, the associate justice present, having the shortest time to serve, or, if
two are present, who have the same time to serve, the elder
of them, must act as presiding justice, until a presiding justice attends. If only one general term justice is present,
he may select one or two justices of the supreme court, to
hold with him the general term, until two general term justices attend.

§ 229. Where only two general term justices are present
at a general term, and one of them is not qualified to sit
upon the hearing of a cause upon the calendar thereof, the
other may select any justice of the supreme court, to sit
with him upon the hearing of that cause, as if the disqualified justice was absent.

§ 230. A general term may be held by two justices; and
the concurrence of two justices is necessary to pronounce a
decision. If two do not concur, a re-argument must be
' ordered.

§ 231. Where an order for are-argument has been made,
as prescribed in the last section, and one of the general
term justices of that judicial department is not qualiiied to
sit in the cause, the order directing the re-argument may,
in the discretion of the general term, direct it to take place,
and the cause to be decided, in another judicial department,
specified in the order. And where two of the general term
justices, in a department, are not qualified to sit in a cause,

to be heard at the general term of that department,
an order may be made, upon notice, by the other general term justice, or at a special term of the court held in
that department, directing that the cause he heard and
decided in another judicial department, specified in the
order. But this section does not prevent the cause from
being heard and decided, in the same judicial department,
by two qualified justices, if an order, directing the same to
be heard and decided in another department, has not been
made. '

§ 232. On or before the first day of December, in the year
eighteen hundred and seventy-six, and every second year
thereafter, the justices of the supreme court, for each judicial department, or a majority of them, must appoint the
times and places for holding the special terms of the supreme court, and terms of the circuit courts and courts of
oyer and terminer, within their department, for two years
from the first day of January of the year next following.
If, for any reason, such an appointment is not made before
the expiration of the time so specified, it must be made
at the earliest convenient time thereafter. At least one
special term of the supreme court, and two terms of the
circuit court and of the court of oyer and terminer, must
be appointed to be held in each year, in each county
separately organized. Two or more terms of the circuit court
may be appointed to be held and may be held, at the same
time, in the city and county of New-York.

§ 233. An appointment so made must be signed by the ;
justices making it, and immediately filed in the office of;

the secretary of State, who must publish a copy thereof in
the newspaper, printed at Albany, in which legal notices
are required to be published, at least once in each week,
for three successive weeks before the holding of a term in
pursuance thereof. The expense of the publication is payable out of the treasury of the State.

§ 234. The governor may, when, in his opinion, the pub—
lic interest so requires, appoint one or more extraordinary
general or special terms of the supreme court, or terms of a
circuit court, or court of oyer and terminer. He must designate the time and place of holding the same, and name the
justice who shall hold, or preside at each term, except a
general term; and he must give notice of the appointment,
in such manner as, in his judgment, the public interest
requires. _

§ 235. Any justice of the supreme court has power to sit
at a general term, or to hold a special term of the supreme
court’, or a term of the circuit court, or to preside at a term of
the court of oyer and terminer, for the whole or any portion
of the term; and to act upon any business, which regularly
comes before the term in which he is sitting; except where
he is personally disqualified from sitting, in a particular action
or special proceeding. Each justice must, at all reasonable
times, when not engaged in holding court, transact such
judicial business as may be done out of court.

§ 236. The governor may, when, in his opinion, the public interest so requires, designate one or more judges of the
superior court of the city of New-York, or of the court of
common pleas for the city and county of New-York, to hold
terms of the circuit court, and special terms of the supreme
court, in that city. The designation must be in Writing, and
must specify each term, and the judge designated to hold
the same. A case or exceptions, in a cause tried at such
a term, must be settled before the judge who held the same.

§ 237. If a general or special term of the supreme court,
or a term of the circuit court, or court of oyer and terminer,
duly appointed, is in danger of failing, the governor may
designate one or more justices of the supreme court, as the
case requires, to preside at the term of the court of oyer
and terminer, or to hold the term of the supreme court or

circuit court, in the absence of the justice or justices
appointed to preside at or hold the same.

§ 238. The place appointed Within each county, for holding a special term of the supreme court, at which issues of
fact are triable, or a term of the circuit court or court of
oyer and terminer, must be that designated by statute, for
holding the county or circuit court.

§ 239. A special term of the supreme court may be adjourned to a future day, and to the chambers of any justice
of the court, residing Within the judicial district, by an
entry in the minutes; and then adjourned from time to
time, as the justice holding the same directs. An action
triable by the court, without a jury, Which Was upon the
calendar of the term before it was adjourned, may be tried
at a term so adjourned, and held at chambers, by consent of
both parties, but not otherwise. In that case, the attendance of the clerk, the sheriff, the crier, or a constable is not
required, unless the justice directs one or more of those
oiiicers to attend.

§ 240. Each judge of the superior court of Buffalo may,
within that city, make an order in an action or special proceeding, pending in the supreme court, Which a justice of
the supreme court may make, out of court.

§ 241. A judge of a superior city court, Within his city,
and a county judge, within his county, possesses, and upon
proper application must exercise, the power conferred by
law, in general language, upon an officer authorized to
perform the duties of a justice of the supreme court at
chambers, or out of court.

§ 242. A general term must be attended by the sheriff
of the county_in which it is held, his under-sheriff, or one

of his deputies; by two constables or police officers,
notified by the sheriff; by a crier for courts Within the
county; and by the county clerk, or his deputy or special
deputy; all of whom must act under the direction of tho
court, or of the presiding justice. The sheriff' of the
county must take care that the room, in Which the general
term is held, is properly heated, ventilated, lighted, and kept
comfortable, clean, and in order; and he must provide the
court with necessary stationery, during its sittings.

§ 243. The fees of a crier, a sheriff, a constable, or a

_police officer, for attending a general term, and all expenses incurred by a sheriff, in obedience to the last section,
must be audited by the comptroller, and paid out of the
treasury of the State. The fees and proper charges of the
clerk, for services rendered at or preparatory to a general
term, and not legally chargeable to an attorney or a party,
are a county charge.

ARTICLE SECOND.

Tm: Barnum Comrr Rnronrn.

Silo. 244. Designation of supreme court reporter.

245. Term of otliee; how appointed, and removed.

246. Meeting for appointment or removal.

247. Special meeting for the same purpose.

248. Papers and opinions to be furnished to the reporter.
249. Duty of reporter; no salary to be paid to him.

250. Price of the volumes of reports.

§ 244. The reporter of the decisions of the supreme court
is styled the supreme court reporter; and each provision of
a statute, wherein the supreme court reporter is mentioned, applies to that officer.

§ 245. The term of oiiice of the supreme court reporter
is five years from the time of his appointment, and until his
successor is appointed and qualities. He must _be appointed

and may be removed, for cause, by the general term justices
of the supreme court, or a majority of such of them as
attend at a convention, held as prescribed in the next two sections. An appointment or removal must be in writing ; it must be signed by the justices making it, and
filed in the office of the secretary of State; otherwise it is
of no effect.

§ 246. The general term justices of the supreme court
must meet in convention, at noon of the day when the term
of office _of the supreme court reporter expires, for the purpose of appointing a supreme court reporter in his place. If
that day is Sunday or a legal holiday, the convention must
be held at the same time and place, on the first judicial day
thereafter. If an appointment is not made at such a meeting, it may be made at a special meeting of the convention,
held as prescribed in the next section. The supreme court
reporter may be removed at such a special meeting.

§ 247. A special meeting of the convention, for the appointment or removal of a supreme court reporter, must be
held at the capitol in the city of Albany; but i_t may be
adjourned to any other place. It may be called by a presiding justice, by written or printed notice, stating the object of
the meeting, and served, personally or through the post-office,
upon each of the general term justices, at least two weeks
before the time appointed therefore. If the object of the
meeting is to consider the question of the removal of the
supreme court reporter, the notice must be accompanied
with a copy of the grounds alleged for the removal; and
both must be served upon the supreme court reporter,

personally, or by leaving them at his last place of residence,
with some person of suitable age and discretion, at least ten
days before the time appointed for the meeting.

§ 248. In each cause heard, at a general term of the
supreme court, the attorney or counsel for each party must

deliver to the clerk, for the use of the supreme court reporter, a duplicate of each paper furnished by him for the
use of the court. The clerk must collect those papers from
the counsel; and immediately after the adjournment of the
term, he must transmit them and certified copies of all the
decisions made at that term, to the supreme court reporter,
at the latter’s expense. Each judge, who renders a written
opinion in a cause decided at a general term, must transmit
it, or a certified copy thereof, to the supreme court reporter,
who must pay the expense of transmission, and also, Where
a copy is transmitted, the expense of copying, not exceeding
eight cents for each folio. ’

§ 249. The supreme court reporter is not entitled to a
salary. He must report and publish such of the decisions
at the general or special terms of the court, as he deems it
for the public interest to have reported. He must also
report and publish the decision in a particular cause, which
the court, at a general or special term, specially directs him
to report. Not more than three volumes of his reports

shall be published in any one year. He must prepare for
each volume, and cause to be published therewith, the usual

digest, head notes, tables of contents, and index.

§ 250. The supreme court reporter must cause the reports, published as prescribed in the last section, to be
kept constantly for sale to persons Within the State, at a
price not exceeding two dollars and fifty cents, for a volume

of not less than seven hundred pages.

ARTICLE THIRD.

Srmnoenxrrrsns.

251. Stenographers in first district.
252. Stenographers for extra terms in New-York city.
253. Stenographers for oyer and terminer in New-York city254. Stenographer in Kings county.
255. His assistant.
256. Stenographers in other counties of second judicial district.

257. Their salaries; how paid.
258. Stenographers for the remaining districts.
259. Their salaries; how paid.
260. Their expenses; how paid.
261. Additional stenographer when two courts held at the same time.
262. Temporary stenographer.

§ 251. The justices of the supreme court for the first judicial district, or a majority of them, must appoint, and may
at pleasure remove, a stenographer for each term of the circuit court, and for each special term of the supreme court,
Where issues of fact are triable, which constitutes a separate
part. Each stenographer so appointed is entitled to a salary,
fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law. He must
attend all the sittings of the part for which he is appointed.
If the judge requires a copy of any proceedings, Written
out at length from the stenographic notes, he may make an
order, directing one-half of the stenographer’s fees therefore,
to be paid by each of the parties to the action or special
proceeding, at the rate of ten cents for each folio so Written
out, and may enforce payment thereof. If there are two
or more parties on the same side, the order may direct
either of them to pay the sum payable by their side, for
the stenographer’s fees; or it may apportion the payment
thereof among them as the judge deems just. r

§ 252. The judge Who holds, in the first judicial district,
an extraordinary term of the circuit court, or an extraordinary special term of the supreme court, must appoint a
stenographer for that term, who is entitled to a compensation, at the rate and in the manner prescribed by law for the
oiiicial stenographer.

§ 253. The judge presiding at a term of the court of
oyer and terminer, held in and for the city and county of
New-York, must designate a stenographer of the supreme
court, to act as stenographer for that term during its sitting,
who is not entitled to any compensation in addition to his
salary; except that, if a copy of any proceedings, Written
out at length from the stenographic notes, is required

g for the use of the presiding judge or the district-attorney,
the stenographer’s fees therefore are payable, on his certificate, as a county charge.

§ 254. The justices of the supreme court for the second
judicial district, residing in the county of Kings, or a
majority of them, must appoint, and may at pleasure remove,
a stenographer, to be attached to the supreme court, circuit
court, and court of oyer and terminer, in and for the county
of Kings. The stenographer so appointed is entitled to a
salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law. He must
attend each term of the supreme court, at which issues of
fact are triable, and each term of the circuit court and court
of oyer and terminer, held in the county of Kings.

§ 255. The stenographer, appointed as prescribed in the
last section, may, with the consent of the judge holding or
presiding at a special term of the supreme court, or term of
the circuit court, or court of oyer and terminer, employ an
assistant-stenographer, to aid him in the discharge of his
duties at that term, Whose compensation must be paid by
the stenographer, and shall not become a county charge.

§ 256. Each justice of the supreme court for the second
judicial district, who does not reside in the county of Kings,
must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a stenographer,
who must attend, as directed by the justice appointing him,
the general and special terms of the supreme court, and the
terms of the circuit court and court of oyer and terminer,
held in the counties of Suffolk, Queens, Richmond, Westchester, Rockland, Putnam, Dutchess, or Orange, and, when
not otherwise engaged, the stated terms of the county court,
in each of those counties.

§ 257. Each stenographer, appointed as prescribed in the
. last section, is entitled to a salary fixed by law. To make
up and pay the salaries, the board of supervisors of each

of the said counties must annually levy, and cause to be
collected, as a county charge, a proportionate part of the
sum necessary to pay the same, to be fixed by the comptroller of the'State, in accordance with the amount of the taxable real and personal property in each county, as shown by
the last annual assessment roll therein. The treasurer of
each county must pay over the sum so raised, to the comptroller of the State, who must thereupon pay the salary of
each stenographer, in equal quarterly payments, under the
direction of the justice making the appointment.

§ 258. The justices of the supreme court, or a majority of
them, for each judicial district of the State, except the first
and second, must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a
stenographer of the supreme court in that district. The
justices of the supreme court for the third judicial district,
or a majority of them, may, in their discretion, appoint, and
at pleasure remove, an additional stenographer of the
supreme court in that district. Each stenographer so appointed is entitled to a salary fixed by law, to be paid as
prescribed in the next section. He must attend, within the
judicial district, the terms of the circuit courts and courts
of oyer and terminer, and the special terms of the supreme
court, where issues of fact are triable.

§ 259. The clerk of the county, in which a term of a‘

court, specified in the last section, is held, must furnish the
stenographer attending the same, with a certificate of the
number of days the term has been in session. Upon the
certificates so furnished, the supreme court, at a special term
thereof held within the judicial district, may, not oftener
than once in six months, by order, apportion to each county
in the district, such a proportion of the stenographer-’s salary,
as the number of days, during which one or more terms
were in session in that county, bears to the Whole number of days, during which the terms were in session in that
district, since the last apportionment was made. Upon the

presentation of a certified copy of such an order, each county
treasurer must pay to the stenographer, from the court fund,
or the fund from which jurors are paid, the sum so apportioned to his county.

§ 260. Each of those stenographers is also entitled to

. payment of his actual and necessary expenses, While attending court, including stationery, and ten cents for each mile
for his actual travel, between the place of holding each term
and his residence, going and returning, or from term to term,
as the case may be. The amount thereof must be certified
by the judge holding or presiding at the term, and must be
paid, upon his certificate, by the treasurer of the county
where the term is held, from the court fund or the fund from

which jurors are paid. But mileage shall not be computed‘

beyond the bounds of the judicial district, except Where the
usual line of travel, from one point to another within that
district, passes partly through another judicial district.

§ 261. Where two or more terms, at which the stenog' rapher would be required to attend, by the provisions of section 258 of this act, are appointed to be held at the same
time, the justices of the supreme court, assigned to hold
or preside at the same, may designate the term at which
the stenographer for the district must attend, and may
employ an additional stenographer to attend each other
term. In that case they must, by a certificate signed by
them, iix a reasonable sum for the payment of his services
and actual necessary expenses, to and from, and while
attending the term. The sum so fixed must be paid by the
treasurer of the county, upon the certificate, from the court
fund, or the fund from which jurors are paid; and the
number of days, during which that term was in session,
shall not be taken into account, in making an apportionment of salary, as prescribed in section 259 of this act.

§ 262. Where an oiiicial stenographer, or his assistant, is
not in attendance, at a term of the circuit court or court of

oyer and terminer, or at a special term of the supreme court,
where issues of fact are triable, the judge holding or presiding at the term, may, in his discretion, employ a stenographer, who must be paid such a compensation as the judge
fixes by his certificate, not exceeding ten dollars for each
day’s attendance, and ten cents for each mile, for travel to
and from his residence, to the place Where the term is held,
together with a reasonable sum for stationery. The sum
so fixed is a charge upon the county, in which the term
is held, and the county treasurer must pay it, upon the
judge’s certificate, from the court fund, or the fund from
which jurors are paid. If it was the duty of an official
stenographer or his assistant to attend the term, and it does
not appear to the satisfaction of the judge, that the failure
to attend Was" excusable, the judge may, in his discretion,
during or after the adjournment of the term, make an order
that the sum so paid, or any part thereof, be deducted from
the salary of the ofiicial stenographer, and that the county
have such credit therefore as may be just. Such an order
may be revoked by the judge who made it, upon proof by
aiiidavit, that the failure to attend was excusable.

TITLE III.
The superior city courts.ABTICLE 1. Provisions applicableto all the superior city courts.
2. Provisions exclusively applicable to the court of common pleas for
the city and county of New-York, and the superior court of the

city of New-York.
8. Provisions exclusively applicable to the superior court of Buffalo.

4. Provisions exclusively applicable to the city court of Brooklyn.

ARTICLE FIRST.

Paovrsrons APPLICABLE TO ALL rm: Surmuon Crrx Courrrs.

830. 263. General jurisdiction of the superior city courts.
264. Domestic corporations, etc., when deemed residents, etc.

265. Where there are two or more defendants.

266. Jurisdiction to be presumed; want of jurisdiction matter of defense.
267. Jurisdiction, etc., to be coextensive with that of supreme court.
268. Id.; in special proceedings out of court.

269. Actions, etc., may be removed into supreme court.

270. Where, and in what cases, order for removal to be granted.

271. Appeal from order of removal.

272. Order to stay proceedings to procure removal.

273. Removal to supreme court, when judges of city court cannot act.
274. Removal from supreme court to city court, by consent.

275. Duty of clerks when removal made.

276. Removal not to affect validity of former proceedings, etc.

277. When county judge may make order.

278. Power to send process to any county.

279. Proceedings commenced before one judge may be continued before
another.

280. Appointment of terms, etc.

281. General terms, by whom held, etc.

282. Id.; special and trial terms.

283. New records, etc., in place of those mutilated or injured.

284. Clerks and deputy-clerks.

285. Special deputy-clerks.

§ 263. The civil jurisdiction of each of the superior city

8 courts extends to the following actions and special proceedings, in addition to the jurisdiction, power, and authority,
conferred upon it, in a particular case, by special statutory
provision :

1. To an action of ejectment; for the partition of real
property; for (lower; to foreclose a mortgage upon real property or upon a chattel real ; to compel the determination of
a claim to real property; for Waste; for a nuisance ; or to
procure a judgment directing a conveyance of real property ;
and to every other action to recover, or to procure a judgment, establishing, determining, defining, forfeiting, annulling, or otherwise affecting, an estate, right, title, lien, or other
interest, in real property or a chattel real. But jurisdiction
attaches under this subdivision, only Where the real property, to which the action relates, is situated Within the city
where the court is located.

2. To an action for any other cause, Where the cause of
action arose Within that city ; or where the defendant is a
resident of that city; or Where the summons is personally
served upon the defendant therein; or where the action is

brought to ‘recover a penalty, or for any other cause of
action given by the charter, a by-law, or an ordinance of
that city.

3. To an action to recover damages for an injury to real
property, or a chattel real; or for the breach of a contract,
express or implied, relating to real property or a chattel
real ; Where the real property is situated within that city, or
where the defendant is a resident of that city. or where the
summons is personally served upon the defendant therein.

4. To an action to recover a chattel; to foreclose or enforce
a lien upon personal property; or to recover damages for an
injury to personal property; where the property, to which
the action relates, is situated within that city, at the time
when the action is commenced. If the property consists of
one or more shares in the capital stock of a domestic corporation or jointstock association, Whose principal place of business is located or established Within that city, or of a debt
due from, or money, or a thing in action, in the possession
or under the control of, such a corporation or joint-stock
association, it is deemed to be situated within that city,
within the meaning of this subdivision.

5. To a judgment creditor’s action; where the judgment,
upon which the action is founded, was recovered in the

same court.
6. To an action for any cause, brought by a resident“ of

the city wherein the court is located, against a natural person, who is not a resident of the State.

7. To an action brought by a resident of that city against
a foreign corporation, either (1) to recover damages for the
breach of a contract, express or implied, or a sum payable
by the terms of a contract, express or implied, Where the
contract was made, executed, or delivered Within the State,
or where the cause of action arose Within the State; or 
Where a Warrant of attachment, granted in the action, has
been actually levied, Within that city, upon property of
the corporation; or (3) Where the summons is served by
delivery of a copy thereof, Within that city, to an officer of
the corporation, as prescribed by law.

8. To the custody of the person and the care'of the property, concurrently with the supreme court, of a person residing in that city, or residing Without the State and sojourning in that city, who is incompetent to manage his affairs
by reason of lunacy, idiocy, or habitual drunkenness; and
to any special proceeding, which the supreme court has
jurisdiction to entertain, for the appointment of a committee of the person or of the property of such an incompetent person, or for the sale or other disposition of
the real property, situated Within that city, of a person,
Wherever resident, who is so incompetent, or who is an
infant; or for the sale or other disposition of the property, or the voluntary dissolution of a domestic corporation,
whose principal place of business is located or established
Within that city; or for the sale or other disposition of the
real property, situated Within that city, of a domestic corporation, Wherever it is located.

9. To any other special proceeding, which the supreme
court has jurisdiction to entertain, Where the person, against
Whom it is brought, is a resident of that city, or the mandate, by Which the special proceeding is commenced, is personally served upon him within that city, or all the acts or
omissions, upon which it is founded, Were done or committed
Within that city, or the subject thereof is situated Within
that city; or Where the special proceeding is brought for
such a purpose, or under such circumstances, that the superior city court would have jurisdiction of an action for
the like purpose, or under the like circumstances, by the
terms of subdivision first of this section.

§ 264. For the purpose of determining the jurisdiction of
a superior city court, in a case specified in the last section,
a domestic corporation or joint-stock association, Whose
principal place of business is established, by or pursuant to
a statute, or by its articles of association, or is actually
located, Within the city wherein the court is located, is
deemed a resident of that city; and personal service of a
summons, made Within that city, as prescribed in this act,

or personal service of a mandate, whereby a special proceeding is commenced, made within that city, as prescribed
in this act for personal service of a summons, is sufiicient
service thereof upon a domestic corporation, wherever it is

located.

§ 265. Where an action or a special proceeding is brought
against two or more parties, and the jurisdiction of a superior
city court depends upon the residence of a party, within the
city wherein the court is located; or personal service upon
him, within that city, of the summons or the mandate for
the commencement of the special proceeding; or the levying of a warrant of attachment within that city; and jurisdiction is thus acquired as against one or more, but not as
against all of them, the jurisdiction, with respect to the
others, is governed by the following rules:

1. Where the action or special proceeding is founded
upon acontract, upon which two or more persons are jointly
liable, and the court has or acquires jurisdiction thereof, as
against one of them, it has jurisdiction thereof as against
all the persons so jointly liable. But this subdivision does
not extend to a case, where the liability is several, as well as
joint.

2. Where an action or a special proceeding brought
against a public oiiicer, together with one or more private
persons, is founded upon an ofiicial act or omission; or
where an action or a special proceeding brought against a
corporation, together with one or more natural persons, is
founded upon an act or omission of the corporation; and
the court has or acquires jurisdiction thereof, as against the
public officer or the corporation; it has jurisdiction thereof
as against all persons, who are necessary parties to the complete determination of the controversy.

3. Where it is not necessary to the complete determination of the controversy, that all the parties thereto should
be subjected to the jurisdiction of the court, the action or
special proceeding may be discontinued or dismissed, as to

the parties over whom the court has not jurisdiction, and
proceed as to the others, as if they were the only parties
against whom it was brought.

§ 266. The jurisdiction of a superior city court, in an
action or a special proceeding brought therein, must always
be presumed. It is not necessary to set forth in a complaint in such an action, or in the petition or other statement
of the case in such a special proceeding, any of the jurisdictional facts specified in section 263 of this act; and where
the defendant in the action, or the person against whom
the special proceeding is instituted, appears, the want of
jurisdiction, by reason of the non-existence of any of those
facts, is matter of defense, and is waived by the appearance, unless it is pleaded in defense.

§ 267. Where a superior city court has jurisdiction of an
action or special proceeding, it possesses the same jurisdiction, authority, and power, in and over the same, and in the
course of the proceedings therein, which the supreme court
possesses in a like case; and it may render any judgment,
or grant either party any relief, which the supreme court
might render or grant in a like case, and may enforce its
mandates in like manner as the supreme court. And each
judge of the superior city court possesses the same power
and authority, in the action or special proceeding, which a
justice of the supreme court possesses, in a like action or
special proceeding, brought in the supreme court.

§ 268. Each judge of a superior city court also possesses
the same power and authority, in a special proceeding, which
can be lawfully instituted before him, out of court, which a
justice of the supreme court possesses in a like special proceeding, instituted before him in like manner.

§ 269. The supreme court may, by an order, made at any
time after joinder of an issue of fact, and before the trial

thereof, remove to itself an action or a special proceeding
pending in a superior city court, for the purpose of changing the place of trial or hearing thereof. Where an order
for a removal is made, as prescribed in this section, the
place of trial or hearing must be changed by the same
order to another county. A certified copy of the order
must be filed in the office of the clerk of the court, in which
the action or special proceeding was commenced. Thereupon it is removed into the supreme court; and the subsequent proceedings therein must be the same, as if it had
been originally brought in the supreme court.

§ 270. An order for the removal of an action or special
proceeding, as prescribed in the last section, can he made
only upon notice, and by a special term of the supreme
court, where the motion might be made, if the action or
special proceeding was pending in the supreme court, and
brought in the county Where the superior city court is
located; and in a case, Where an order, changing in like
manner the place of trial or hearing, would be granted, if
the action or special proceeding Was pending in the supreme
court.

§ 271. An appeal from an order, made upon such a
motion, must be taken and heard in like manner, as if the
action or special proceeding was pending in the supreme
court, and triable in the county to which the place of trial
is changed. Such an appeal brings up to the general term,
and thence to the court of appeals, if the order is appealable to that court, all questions which were before the
special term, and the appellate tribunal must dispose of the
same, as if they were originally presented to it.

§ 272. An order to stay proceedings, for the purpose of
affording an opportunity to make such an application for
removal, may be made by a judge, authorized to make an

order to stay proceedings, either in the court Where the
action or special proceeding is pending, or in the supreme
court, and with like effect, and under like circumstances.

§ 273. If all the judges of a superior city court are, for
any reason, incapable of sitting upon the trial of an action,
or the hearing of a special proceeding, pending therein, or
if all, or all but one, of the judges of a superior city court
are incapable of sitting upon the hearing of an appeal
therein, the judges of the court, or a majority of them, must
make, and file in the oifice of the clerk of the court, a certificate of the fact. Thereupon the action or special proceeding is removed to the supreme court; and the subsequent proceedings therein must be the same, as if it had
been originally brought in the supreme court.

§ 274. The supreme court, Where the parties manifest in
Writing their consent, must make an order, directing that
an action or special "proceeding, pending in that court, and
triable in a county Where a superior city court is located, be
removed to the superior city court, or, in the city of NewYork, to either of those courts therein, as specified in the
consent. A certified copy of the order must be filed in the
office of the clerk of the court, to which the action or special
proceeding is ordered to be removed. Thereupon it is
removed accordingly; and all subsequent proceedings therein must be the same, as if it had been originally brought in
the superior city court.

§ 275. Where an action or special proceeding is removed
from one court to another, as prescribed in this article, the
clerk of the court from which it is removed, must forthwith
deliver to the clerk of the court to which it is removed, all
papers filed therein, and certified copies of all minutes and
entries relating thereto; which must be filed, entered or
recorded, as the case requires, in the office of the last mentioned clerk. If the action or special proceeding is removed

to the supreme court, and the place of trial or hearing
changed, the delivery must be made to the clerk of the
county, in which the order of removal directs the trial or

hearing to be had.

§ 276. The removal of an action or special proceeding, as
prescribed in this article, does not invalidate, or in any
manner impair, a process, provisional remedy or other
proceeding, or a bond, undertaking or recognizance in the
action or special proceeding so removed; each of which continues to have the same validity and effect, as if the removal
had not been made. Where bail has been given, the surrender of the defendant, in the court to which the action
or special proceeding was removed, has the same effect, as a
surrender in the court from which it was removed would
have bad, if the action or special proceeding had remained
therein.

§ 277. In an action or special proceeding, brought in a
superior city court, an order may be made Without notice,
or an order to stay proceedings may be made upon notice,
by the county judge of the county where the court is situated, or of the county where the attorney for the applicant
resides, in a case where a judge of the superior city court
might make the same out of court, and with like effect.

§ 278. A superior city court has power, in "an action or
special proceeding, of which it has jurisdiction, to send its
process and other mandates into any county of the State,
for service or execution, and to enforce obedience thereto,
with like power and authority as the supreme court.

§ 279. A special proceeding, instituted before a judge of
the superior court of Buffalo, or the city court of Brooklyn,
or a proceeding commenced before a judge of either of
those courts, out of court, in an action or special proceeding pending in his court, may be continued, from time
to time, before one or more other judges of the same court,
as prescribed by law, With respect to like proceedings, before
a judge of a court of record in the city of New-York.

§ 280. The judges of each superior city court, or a majority of them, must, from time to time, appoint the times
for holding the general, special and trial terms of their
court. They must also assign the judges to hold each of the
terms, and designate the trial terms, at which issues of fact
are triable bya jury. A. general, a special, and one or more
trial terms, may be appointed to be held, and may be held,
at the same time. The judges, or a majority of them, must
also appoint reasonable times, when a judge must attend at
chambers, and designate the judge to attend for that purpose. Each appointment, made as prescribed in this section. must be signed by the judges making the same, and
filed in the clerk’s office. A copy thereof must be published in the newspaper printed in Albany, in which legal
notices are required to be published, andin two newspapers
printed in the city where the court is located, at least once

in each week for three successive weeks, before a term is
held by virtue thereof.

§ 281. A general term must be held by at least two

judges. Two must concur to determine a cause; otherwise, it must be reheard; except that if the remaining
judge or judges are disqualified to sit upon an appeal, the
judgment or order must be affirmed, unless a rehearing is
directed.

§ 282. A special term or a trial term of a superior city
court must be held by one judge.

§ 283. When the chief-judge of a superior city court
certifies, that a book of minutes, records, indices, or dockets

lof judgments, in the office of the clerk of the court, has

become so mutilated or injured, that it cannot be conveniently used or correctly examined, the clerk of the courtmust cause a copy thereof to be made. The expense of
making the copy, not exceeding ten cents for each folio, is a
charge, in the city of New-York, upon that city, and, in the
city of Buffalo, or the city of Brooklyn, upon the county
Where the court is located; and it must be paid by the
comptroller of the city of lflew-York, or the county
treasurer, as the case requires, upon the certificate of the
clerk, that the copy was made pursuant to his direction.
The copy, when certified by the clerk to be a correct copy
of the original, has, presumptively, the effect of the original.
The original must be preserved, and may be referred to at
any time, by the direction of a judge of the court.

§ 284. Each superior city court has a clerk, who is appointed, and may be removed at pleasure, by the judges of
the court, or a majority of them. Each clerk, by a Writing
under his hand and the seal of the court, filed in his oiiice,
must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a deputy-clerk.
The deputy-clerk has all the powers, and may perform all
the duties of the clerk, when the office of clerk is vacant,
or at the clerk’s oilice, when the clerk is absent therefrom,
or at a term or sitting of the court, which the deputy-clerk
attends. Each clerk and each deputy-clerk must subscribe,
and file in the clerk’s office, the constitutional oath of office;
and is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed
by law.

§ 285. A special deputy-clerk of a superior city court,

appointed as prescribed by law, possesses, in the absence of i

the clerk and the deputy-clerk, the same powers as the clerk,
at a sitting or term of the court which he attends, with reapect to the business transacted thereat.

ARTICLE SECOND.

Pnovrsrons EXCLUSIVELY APPLICABLE To run COURT on Conan Pans Iron

run: Crrr AND Comrrr or Nnw-Yonx, AND THE SUPERIOR Comrr or rm:
Crrr or Nnw-Yonx.

286. Special jurisdiction of the common pleas.
287. Each court to consist of six judges; chief-judge.
288. Assistants, etc., in clerks’ ofilces.
289. Stenographers. '
290. Stenographer for extra term.

291. Criers.

§ 286. In addition to the jurisdiction defined in sections
263, 264 and 265 of this act, the court of common pleas for
the city and county of New-York, has power and jurisdiction to correct or discharge a judgment, entered in any court
held within that city and county, upon a forfeited recognizance, or the docket of such a judgment, in like manner as
if it was a judgment rendered in that court; to remit a
fine or forfeited recognizance, in a case where a county court
can remit the same, and in like manner; and to entertain
any special proceeding, which, in any county except NewYork, may be instituted in the county court.

§ 287. The court of common pleas for the city and county
of New-York, and the superior court of the city of NewYork, consist of six judges for each court; one of whom must

from time to time, as a vacancy occurs, be appointed chief'judge of his court, as prescribed in the constitution.

§ 288. The clerk of each of those courts may appoint
and at pleasure remove, such special deputy-clerks and other
assistants, as he deems necessary; but a special deputy-clerk

or an assistant, so appointed, is not entitled to any compensation out of the treasury of the city of New-York, unless
his compensation is fixed by law, or allowed pursuant to

law.

§ 289. The judges of each of those courts, or a majority
of them, must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a stenographer for each term of the court, for the trial’ of issues of

fact, constituting a distinct part. Each stenographer so
appointed is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law. He must attend all the sittings of the part
for which he is appointed. If the judge requires a copy
of any proceedings, Written out at length from the stenographic notes, he may make an order directing one-half of

the stenographer’s fees therefore, to be paid by each of the
parties to the action or special proceeding, at the rate of ten
cents for each folio so Written out, and may enforce payment thereof ,If there are two or more parties on the same
side, the order may direct either of them to pay the sum
payable by their side, for the stenographer’s fees, or it may
apportion the payment thereof among them, as the judge
deems just.

§ 290. The judge who holds an extraordinary trial term
of either of those courts, must appoint a stenographer for
that term, who is subject to all the provisions of law relating to an assistant-stenographer, and is entitled to a compensation, at the rate and in the manner prescribed by law;

for the ofiicial stenographer.

§ 291. The judges of each of those courts, or a majority
of them,,must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, one
crier for their court. Each crier so appointed is entitled to

a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law. He is
not entitled to any other compensation.

ARTICLE THIRD.

Paovmons nxcnusrvmar APPLICABLE TO mm Scranton Gounr or Burnno.

8:0. 292. Additional jurisdiction.
298. Id.; in special proceedings.
294. Exclusive powers in certain cases.295. Court to consist of three judges; chief-judge.

296. Number of general and trial terms.
297. Demurrers to be tried at general term.
298. Clerk may charge fees.
299. Deputy-clerk and special deputy-clerk.

800. Stenographer.
801 Crier.

302. Sheriff, constables, etc., to attend court ; special powers in contempt
cases, etc.

803. Assessors to return jury list.

804. Drawing trial jurors.

805. Notifying trial jurors; their fees.

306. Additional jurors may be ordered.

§ 292. In addition to the jurisdiction defined in sections
263, 264 and 265 of this act, the jurisdiction of the superior
court of Buffalo extends to the following actions and special
proceedings: ,

1. To an action founded upon a contract, where the
defendant, or, if there are two or more defendants, Where
either of them, is a resident of that city, or occupies a tenement, for the transaction of his or their ordinary business,
in that city; or where the summons is served upon either of
them in that city; or where the contract Was made in that
city.

2. To an action for any other cause, Where the defendant,
or, if there are two or more defendants, Where all the defendants proceeded against, occupy a tenement in that city, for
the transaction of their ordinary business.

3. To an action to recover damages against one or more
common carriers, not being residents of the State, Where the
defendant, or, if there are two or more defendants jointly
liable, Where one of them has property in that city.

4. To an action against a domestic corporation, which
transacts its general business in that city, or has an oiiice
or agency in that city, for the transaction of business; or
against a foreign corporation, which has property in that
city, or an agency therein.

5. To an action or special proceeding against the city of
Buffalo, or an officer thereof.

§ 293. The court also possesses and exercises, within the
city of Buffalo, in any matter which arises, or the subject

whereof is located or situated within that city, jurisdiction,
power and-authority, concurrent and co-extensive with those
conferred upon the supreme court, in a like case, by’ any
statutory provision. —

§ 294. The court also possesses exclusive jurisdiction and
power as follows: i

1. Where an action, commenced in a justice’s court in the
city of Buffalo, has been discontinued upon the delivery of
an undertaking, because the title to real property came in
question, it possesses exclusive jurisdiction of an action for
the same cause, brought pursuant to the undertaking.

2. It has exclusive power to remit a fine imposed or a
recognizance estreated by it.

§ 295. The court consists of three judges; one of whom
must, from time to time, as a vacancy occurs, be appointed
chief-judge, as prescribed in the constitution.

§ 296. At least four general terms and six trial terms of
the court must be appointed to be held in each year.

§ 297. A demurrer in the court must be tried at the
general term. But this section does not alfect the right of
a party to bring the demurrer to trial, on the ground of its
frivolousness, or the frivolousness of the pleading or part of
the pleading demurred to, as prescribed in this act.

§ 298. The clerk of the court is entitled, in addition to his
salary, for any service performed by him, to the fee allowed
by law to a county clerk, for a similar service, performed in
the supreme court, or the court of oyer and terminer.

§ 299. Where the deputy-clerk of the court dies, resigns,
removes from the city, is removed from oiiice, or becomes
otherwise incapable of acting, the clerk must appoint a

deputy-clerk in his place. The clerk, if the judges of the
court, or amajority of them, deem it necessary for the proper
transaction of its business, from time to time must appoint,
and may at pleasure remove, in the manner prescribed by
law for the appointment and removal of a deputy-clerk, a
special deputy-clerk, Whose compensation must be paid by
the clerk.

§ 300. The judges of the court, or a majority of them,
must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a stenographer
of the court, who is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be
paid as prescribed by law. He must attend each term of
the court, Where issues of fact in civil or criminal causes aretriable. If the judge requires a copy of any proceedings,
Written out at length from the stenographic notes, he may
make an order directing the stenographer’s fees therefore, at
the rate of six cents for each folio so Written out, to be paid
as follows:

1. In a civil action or special proceeding, by the party
entitled to costs upon the verdict, decision, or report; who
may tax the sum paid therefore, as a disbursement.

2. In a criminal action or special proceeding, by the
county treasurer of Erie county, as a county charge. But, in
such a case, the judge may ’dx such asum, not exceeding the
rate specified in this section, as he deems proper. '

§ 301. The judges, or a majority of them, from time to
time must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a crier for
the court, who is entitled to a’ salary, lixed and to be paid
as prescribed by law. He is not entitled to any other compensation.

§ 302. The sheriff of the county of Erie, or his undersheriff, or a deputy-sheriff, designated by him, and as many
policemen of the city of Buffalo, as the court directs, must
attend each term of the court. A policeman, in attendance upon a term of the court, may, under the direction

of the judge presiding at or holding the term, notify talesmen or additional jurors, and execute a mandate of the
court, issued in a case of contempt, with like effect and in
like manner as if he Was the sheriff. But a policeman is
not entitled to any fees, or other compensation, except his

salary, for a service performed by him, as prescribed in this section.

§ 303. The assessors of the city of Buffalo must, in the
month of May in each ‘year, make out, return, and file with
the clerk of the court, a list of not less than six hundred
residents of that city, not exempt from jury duty, qualified
to serve as trial jurors in the court. For that purpose, the
assessors may, in their discretion, associate the clerk of the
court with them. The court, at any term thereof, may, from
time to time, make an order, directing the assessors to
make out and file, Within a time specified in the order, a
new list of jurors, or a list of any number of additional
jurors; and it may punish an omission to obey such an
order, as a contempt.

§ 304. At least fourteen days before the time appointed
for holding a term of the court, Where issues of fact in civil
or criminal causes are triable, the clerk of the court, in the
presence of a judge thereof, must draw from the list so
returned by the assessors, the names of thirty-six persons, or
such other number as the court, at any term thereof, directs,
to serve as trial jurors. The drawing must be conducted as
prescribed by law, for‘ the,drawing of trial jurors by a
county clerk, except that notice thereof is not necessary. A
list of the names of the persons drawn must be certified by
the clerk and attending judge, and delivered to the sheriff
of Erie county.

§ 305. The sheriff must thereupon notify each of the
persons so drawn, as prescribed by law for notifying a,
juror drawn to attend a term of the circuit court. Before

’the first day of the term, the sheriff must file the list with
j the clerk, accompanied with his return, specifying who

were notiiied, and the manner in which each person was
notified. The clerk must make the same disposition
of the ballots. containing the names of the jurors Who
have served, of those who did not appear, and of those who
Were discharged, as prescribed by law, with respect to the
circuit court. Each juror, attending a term of the court,
must be paid by the county of Erie, the same compensation
as a juror attending the circuit court.

§ 306. At a term Where issues of fact, in civil or criminal
causes, are triable, the court may, in its discretion, direct
additional jurors to be drawn from any list returned by the
assessors, and require the sheriff, or a policeman in attendance upon the term, forthwith to notify them to attend;
and if a person so drawn cannot be found, the court may
cause his name to be returned to the box.

ARTICLE FOURTH.

Pnovrsroxs EXCLUSIVELY APPLICABLE TO THE Crrr Comrr or Bnoonm.

307. Court consists of three judges; chief-judge.
308. Court always open; number of trial terms.

309. Appointment of deputy-clerk and assistants to clerk.
310. Clerk may charge fees.

311. Sheriff, etc., to attend terms.
312. Expenses to be a county charge.
313. Stenographers.

§ 307. The city court of Brooklyn consists of three
judges; one of Whom must, from time to time, as a vacancy

occurs, be appointed chief-judge of the court, as prescribed
in the constitution.

§ 308. The court is always open for the transaction of
any business, for which notice is not i required to be given
to an adverse party. At least ten terms thereof, for the

trial of issues of law or of fact, must be appointed to be
held in- each year.

§ 309. The judges of the court, or a majority of them,
may appoint as many special deputy-clerks and assistants
in the clerk’s oliice, as they deem necessary. Each officer so
appointed is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as
prescribed by law.

§ 310. The clerk of the court is entitled, in addition to
his salary, for any service performed by him, to the fee
allowed by law to a county clerk, for a similar service.

§ 311. The sheriff of Kings county, his under-sheriff, or
one or more deputy-sheriffs, designated by him, must attend
each term or sitting of the court, as required by the judge
or judges holding the same.

§ 312. The expenses of the court are a county charge, and
must be allowed and paid in like manner as other county
charges.

§ 313. The judges of the court, or a majority of them,
from time to time must appoint, and may at pleasure
remove, one or two stenographers, as they deem it necessary
for the business of the court. Each stenographer so appointed is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law. He must attend each term of the court,
where issues of fact in civil or criminal causes are triable. If
two stenographers are appointed, the judges of the court
must assign to each his share of the business. A stenographer may, with the assent of the judges of the court, or
a majority of them, appoint an assistant-stenographer, to aid
him in the discharge of his duties, whose compensation is
payable by the stenographer, and is not a county charge.

TITLE IV.
Tlw .Zl[a/rinc Court of the city of New-York.

814. Marine court a court of record.
815. Jurisdiction.
816. The last section limited.
817. Jurisdiction in marine causes.
818. No power to naturalize aliens.
819. Removal of action to supreme court from marine court.
820. J ustices; their general duties.
821. How suspended from office.
822. Chief-justice; how designated; his general duties, etc.
823. Justices may make rules.
824. Court when open; justices to designate terms: routine of business at

the terms, etc.

825. Terms, where held; publication of appointments.
826. Justices may take oaths, acknowledgments, etc.
827. Orders, etc., how made.
828. Clerk, deputy-clerk and assistants.
829. General duties of deputy-clerk.

880. Special deputy-clerks.
881. Clerk to account monthly for fees, and pay over the same.

832. Stenographers.

888. Interpreter.

884. Id. ; penalty for misconduct.

885. Court may appoint attendants, etc.

886. Interpreter and attendants not to receive fees.

887. Suspension of an officer of the court.
838. What mandates may be executed without the city.

889. Direction and execution of mandates.

§ 314. The marine court of the city of N ew-York is a
court of record, to and for every intent and purpose.

§ 315. The jurisdiction of the court extends to the following cases:

1. An action against a natural person, or against a
foreign or domestic corporation, wherein the complaint
demands judgment for a sum of money only, or to recover
one or more chattels, with or Without damages for the taking
or detention thereof.

2. An action to foreclose or enforce a lien upon real

property in the city of N ew-York, created, as prescribed by
statute, in favor of a person, who has performed labor upon,

or furnished materials to be used in the construction, alteration, or repair of a building, vault, wharf, fence, or other
structure; or who has graded, filled in, or otherwise improved, a lot of land, or the sidewalk or street in front of or
adjoining a lot of land.

 An action to foreclose or enforce a lien, for a sum not
exceeding two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest, upon
one or more chattels.

4. The taking and entry of a judgment, upon the confession of one or more defendants, where the sum, for which
judgment is confessed, does not exceed two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest from the time of making the statement, upon which the judgment is entered.

§ 316. The jurisdiction conferred by the last section is
subject to the following limitations and regulations:

1. In an action wherein the complaint demands judgment for a sum of money only, the sum, for which judgment is rendered in favor of the plaintifff, cannot exceed two
thousand dollars, exclusive of interest and costs as taxed;
except where it is brought upon a bond or undertaking,
given in an action or special proceeding in the same court, or
before a justice thereof; or to recover damages for a breach
of promise of marriage; or where it is a marine cause, as
that expression is defined in the next section. Where the
action is brought upon a bond or other contract, the judgment must be for the sum actually due, without regard to a
penalty therein contained; and, where the money is payable
in instalments, successive actions may be brought for the
instalments, as they become due.

2. In an action to recover one or more chattels, a judgment cannot be rendered in favor of the plaintifff, for a chattel or chattels, the aggregate value of which exceeds two
thousand dollars.

3. The court has not jurisdiction of an action against an
executor or administrator, in his representative capacity.

§ 317. The following actions are styled in this act,
marine causes, and the court possesses the same jurisdiction
of such an action, as the supreme court of the State:

1. An action in favor of a person, belonging to a vessel
in the merchant service, against the owner, master, or commander thereof, for the reasonable value of services, or for
the breach of a contract to pay for services, rendered or to
be rendered on board of the vessel, during a voyage, wholly
or partly performed, or intended to be performed by it.

2. An action in favor of or against a person, belonging
to or on board of a vessel in the merchant service, to recover damages for an assault, battery or false imprisonment,
committed on board the vessel, upon the high seas, or in a
place without the United States.

But this section does not confer upon the marine court
authority to proceed, as a court of "admiralty or maritime
jurisdiction.

§ 318. The court has not, nor has either of the justices
thereof, power to naturalize an alien.

§ 319. The supreme court, at a term held in the first
judicial district, may, by an order made at any time after
joinder of an issue of fact, and before the trial thereof,
remove to itself an action brought in the marine court, for
the purpose of changing the place of trial thereof. Where
an order for removal is made, as prescribed in this section,
the place of trial must be changed by the same order to
another county, and the subsequent proceedings therein
must be the same as if the action had been originally
brought in the supreme court. The provisions of sections
344, 345 and 346 of this act, apply to an application to
remove such an action, and to the proceedings upon and
subsequent to the removal, as if the marine court was
specified in those sections in place of the county court, and
a justice thereof in place of the county judge.

§ 320. The court consists of six justices, one of whom is,
the chief-justice of the court. Each justice must perform his,
share of the labors and duties appertaining to the office. '
One of the justices must attend at the chambers of the court,
from ten o’clock in the morning until four o’clock in the afternoon of each day, except Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day
upon Which the inhabitants of the city of New-York generally refrain from business. Each justice, while in the rooms
of the court, and not actually engaged in the performance
of other oiiicial duties, must act upon any application for
his oiiicial action, properly made to him. The justice,
assigned to a trial term or a special term, must remain in
attendance, until the day calendar is disposed of, or for such
other time as is reasonable.

§ 321. Where it appears presumptively, to the satisfaction of the governor, that a justice of the court has
been guilty of corruption, or other gross misconduct in
office; or habitually neglects to perform his share of the
labors and duties appertaining to the office; or is incapable
of properly discharging the same; the governor may, in his
discretion, make an order, suspending that justice from the
exercise of the duties of his oiiice, and directing that his
compensation cease. Such an order must recite the grounds
upon which it is made; and it remains in force, unless it is
sooner revoked by the governor, until the final adjournment
of the next session of the legislature; or, if the legislature is
then in session, until the final adjournment of that session.

§ 322. The justices of the court, or a majority of them,
must, from time to time, as a vacancy occurs in the office of
chief-justice, designate one of their number to be chief- T
justice. A certificate of the designation, under the hands
of the justices making the same, must be filed in the office
of the clerk of the court. The person so designated shall
be chief-justice during his term of oiiice. The chief-justice
has the like authority, within the jurisdiction of the court,

as a presiding justice of the supreme court; and when he is

present and is not disqualified, he must preside at a general
term.

§ 323. The justices of the court, or a majority of them,
may, from time to time, establish rules of practice. for the
court, not inconsistent with this act, or with the general
rules of practice, established as prescribed in section 17 of
this act. The latter govern the practice in the court, as far
as they are applicable thereto.

§ 324. The court is always open for the transaction of
any business, for which notice is not required to be given
to an adverse party. The justices of the court, or a
,majority of them, from time to time must appoint, -and
’may alter, the times of holding general, special, and trial
terms of the court. They must prescribe the duration
of the terms; designate the trial terms at which jurors are
required to attend; and assign the justice or justices to
preside and attend, at each of the terms so appointed. In
case of the inability of a justice to preside or attend, another justice may preside or attend in his place. Each trial
and special term must be held by one justice; and each
general term by at least two justices. Two or more general,
special, or trial terms may be appointed to be held at the
same time. The concurrence of two justices is necessary to
pronounce adecision at a general term. If two do not concur, a re-argument must be ordered. The justices holding
a general term may order a re-argument, before themselves,
or at a subsequent general term, of a cause heard by them,
or at a previous general term.

§ 325. Each term so appointed must be held at the cityhall in the city of New-York, except that auxiliary or additional parts, for the transaction of any business specified in
the appointment, may be held elsewhere within the city of
New-York, as designated in the appointment. An appointment must be published in two newspapers, published in
the city of New-York, at least once in each Week, for three
successive weeks, before a term is held in pursuance thereof.

§ 326. Each of the justices may, within the city of
New-York, administer an oath, or take a deposition, or the
acknowledgment or proof of the execution of a written

instrument, and certify the same, in like manner and with
like authority and effect, as a justice of the supreme court.

§ 327. In an action brought in the court, an order cannot
be made, or a warrant of attachment granted, by an oilicer,
other than a justice of the court; and each provision of this
act, which empowers an oiiicer, other than a judge of the
court in which an action is brought, to make an order
therein, must be construed as being exclusive of an action
brought in the marine court.

§ 328. The court has a clerk, who is appointed, and may
be removed, at pleasure, by the justices thereof, or a majority
of them. He must, by a written instrument under his
hand, filed in his oilice, appoint, and may at pleasure
remove, one deputy-clerk, and not more than twelve assist
ants. The clerk is responsible for the faithful discharge of
his duty, by the deputy-clerk and each assistant. The
clerk, the deputy-clerk, and each assistant, is entitled to a
salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law.

§ 329. The clerk, and also the deputy-clerk, before he
enters upon the duties of his ofxice, must subscribe, and file
in the oilice of the clerk of the city and county of N ew-York,
the constitutional oath of office. The deputy-clerk has all
the powers, and may perform all the duties of the clerk,
when the office of clerk is vacant, or at the clerk’s office,
when the clerk is absent therefrom, or at a term or sitting of
the court which the deputy-clerk attends.

§ 330. The clerk may designate asmany of his assistants,
as the justices of the court, or a majority of them, deem necessary, as special deputy-clerks. Each special deputy-clerk
possesses, in the absence of the clerk and the deputy-clerk,
the same powers as the clerk, at any sitting or term of the
court which he attends, with respect to the business transacted thereat.

§ 331. The clerk must receive, for the use of the city of
N ew-York, the fees allowed by law. He shall not perform
any service, for which a fee is allowed by law, until the fee
therefore is paid to him. He must, on the first day of each
month, or within three days thereafter, render to the comp«
troller of the city, an account, under oath, of all fees
received, directly or indirectly, during the preceding month,
by him, or by the deputy-clerk, or either of his assistants,
for any official service; and he must, at the same time, pay
the same into the treasury of the city of N ew-York. When
the return and payment are so made, the clerk is entitled to
receive his compensation, for the period included in the
return. He is not entitled to compensation for aperiod for
which he has not made his return and payment.

§ 332. The justices of the court, or a majority of them,
must appoint four stenographers of the court, and may at
pleasure remove either of them. They must also, from time
to time, assign each of the stenographers to duty at the trial
terms. Each stenographer is entitled to a salary, fixed and
to be paid as prescribed by law. He must attend each term

to which he is assigned.

§ 333. The justices of the court, or a majority of them,
from time to time must appoint, and may at pleasure
remove, an official interpreter of the court, who is entitled
to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law.
Before entering upon his oiiicial duties, he must subscribe,
and file in the oiiice of the clerk of the city and county
of New-York, the constitutional oath of office. He must

attend any trial or special term of the court, where his services are required; and the justices of the court, or a
majority of them, may, by order, regulate his attendance.

§ 334. If the official interpreter, knowingly and willfully,
falsely interprets any evidence, matter, or thing, between a
witness and the court, or a justice thereof, in the course of

an action or special proceeding, he is guilty of perjury.

§ 335. The justices of the court, or a majority of them,
may appoint, and at pleasure remove, as many attendants
upon the court as they deem necessary, not exceeding eighteen; and may regulate their attendance. Each attendant

is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by
law.

§ 336. The clerk, the deputy-clerk, an assistant to the
clerk, the official interpreter, or an attendant, shall not

receive any fee or compensation, except his salary, for any
oiiicial service performed by him.

§ 337. A justice of the court may, by an instrumentunder his hand, suspend a stenographer, or an oilicer speci-T
tied in the last section, for a period not exceeding ten

‘ days from the filing thereof. Such an instrument must
express the cause of the suspension; it must be filed in the

office of the clerk of the city and county of New-York;
and it may be revoked, at any time before the expiration
of the ten days, by an instrument filed in like manner,
under the hand of the justice who executedthe first instrument, or the hands of a majority of the justices of the
court. Where such an instrument has been revoked, the
officer shall not be again suspended for the same cause.

§ 338. A mandate of the court can be executed only
within the city of N ew-York, except as follows:
1. An execution upon a judgment rendered therein, for

a sum exceeding twenty-five dollars, may be issued out of
the court, tested in the name of the chief-justice thereof, to
the sheriff of any county, wherein the judgment has been
duly docketed.

2. A subpoena may be served Within either of the counties
of Richmond, Kings, Queens or Westchester.

3. A Warrant to apprehend a witness for a failure to obey
a subpoena, may be executed by the sheriff of the city and
county of New-York, or a marshal of that city, within
either of those counties.

4. An order duly made, in an action pending in the court,
requiring the performance of an act by a party thereto, or
by an officer, may be served upon a person bound to obey
the order, and his obedience thereto may be required, in any
part of the State.

5. An order to show cause, why a person should not be
punished for a contempt of the court, may be served by any
person in any part of the State.

6. A warrant to apprehend, and bring before the court,
a person charged with such a contempt, may be executed by
the sheriff of the city and county of New-York, or a marshal

of that city, in any part of the State.

§ 339. In an action brought in the court, an order of arrest, a warrant of attachment, an execution, or a requisition
to replevy a chattel, must be directed to and executed by
the sheriff. Any other mandate, which must have been
directed to and executed by the sheriff of the city and

county of New‘-York, if it issued out of the supreme court,
may, Where it issues out of the marine court, be directed to
and executed either by that sheriff, or a marshal of that city,
named therein. A marshal is entitled to the same fees as
the sheriff, upon a mandate directed to him, or upon the
service of a summons; and each provision of law, relating
to the execution of a mandate by the sheriff, and the power
and control of the court over the sheriff executing the same,
applies to the marshal. The return of a marshal to such a

mandate, or his certificate of the execution thereof, or of the
service of any paper served by him, has the same force and
effect, as the like return and certificate of a sheriff.

TITLE V.
-The cmmkq cowts.

Jurisdiction.

Domestic corporation, etc., when deemed resident, etc.
Action, etc., wherein county judge is incapable to act.
Supreme court may remove action, and change place of trial.
E&ect of order of removal ; appeal, etc.

. Stay of proceedings.

. Removal of action not to impair process, etc.

. County court may send its process to any county.

When jurisdiction, etc., coextensive with supreme court.
Power of county judge in special proceedings.

Fines and penalties; how remitted.

Restrictions upon power to remit.

Notice of application, etc.; costs to be paid on remission.
. Fines imposed by justices of the peace; how remitted.
854. Who may make orders.

855. County court when open; terms thereof.

856. Notice of appointment to be published.

85?. Jurors, how drawn and summoned.

858. Btenographers for county courts.

859. Stenographer for county courts and surrogate’s court in Kings county.
860. Id.; assistant-stenographer.

861. Btenographer for county courts of Monroe and Livingston counties.

§ 340. The jurisdiction of each county court extends to
the following actions and special proceedings, in addition
to the jurisdiction, power, and authority, conferred upon a
county court, in a particular case, by special statutory pro;
VISIOD :

1. To an action for the partition of real property; for
dower; for the foreclosure, redemption, or satisfaction of a
mortgage upon real property; or to procure a judgment requiring the specific performance of a contract, relating to
real property; Where the real property, to which the action
relates, is situated Within the county.

2. To an action in favor of the executor, administrator or
assignee of a judgment creditor, or, in a proper case, in favor

of the judgment creditor, to recover a sum of money remaining unsatisfied upon a judgment rendered in the same court.

3. To an action for any other cause, Where'the defendant
is, or, if there are two or more defendants, where all of them
are, at the time of the commencement of the action, residents
of the county, and wherein the complaint demands judgment for a sum of money only, not exceeding one thousand
dollars; or to recover one or more chattels, the aggregate
value of which does not exceed one thousand dollars, With
or Without damages for the taking or detention thereof.

4. To the custody of the person and the care of the property, concurrently With the supreme court, of a resident of
the county, who is incompetent to manage his affairs, by
reason of lunacy, idiocy, or habitual drunkenness; and to
every special proceeding, which the supreme court has jurisdiction to entertain, for the appointment of a committee of.

the person or of the property, of such an incompetent person, or for the sale or other disposition of the real property,
situated Within the county, of a person, Wherever resident,
Who is so incompetent for either of the causes aforesaid, or
who is an infant; or for the sale or other disposition of the
real property, situated Within the county, of a domestic
religious corporation.

§ 341. For the purpose of determining the jurisdiction of

A a county court, in either of the cases specified in the last section, a domestic corporation or joint-stock association,
whose principal place of business is established, by or
pursuant to a statute, or by its articles of association, or is
actually located Within the county, is deemed a resident of
the county; and personal service of a summons, made Within
the county as prescribed in this act, or personal service of a
mandate, whereby a special proceeding is commenced, made
Within the county, as prescribed in this act for personal
service of a summons, is sufficient service thereof upon a
domestic corporation, wherever it is located.

§ 342. If the county judge is, for any cause, incapable to
act in an action or special proceeding, pending in the county
court, he must make, and file in the oiiice of the clerk, a certificate of the fact; and thereupon the special county judge
must act as county judge, in that action or special proceeding,
unless it is removed to the supreme court. If there is no
special county’ judge, the action or special proceeding is
removed to the supreme court, by the filing of the certificate.
The supreme court, at a term held within the judicial district
including the county, upon the application of either party,
made upon notice, and upon proof that the county judge is
incapable to act in an action or special proceeding, may, and,
if the special county judge is also incapable to act, must,
make an order, removing the action or special proceeding to
the supreme court. Where an action or special proceeding
is removed to the supreme court, as prescribed in this section,
the subsequent proceedings therein must be the same, as if
it had been originally brought in that court, except that an
objection to the jurisdiction may.be taken, which might have
been taken'in the county court.

§ 343. The supreme court may, by an order, made at any
time after joinder of an issue of fact, and before the trial
thereof, remove to itself an action brought in a county
court, under subdivision second or subdivision third of the
last section but two, for the purpose of changing the place
of trial thereof. Where an order for removal is made, as
prescribed in this section, the place of trial of the action
must be changed by the same order to another county, and
the subsequent proceedings therein must be the same, as if
the action had been originally brought in the supreme court.

§ 344. An order of removal, made as prescribed in either
of the last two sections, takes effect upon the entry thereof
in the office of the county ‘clerk. Where the order directs
that the action be tried in another county, the clerk with
whom it is entered, must forthwith deliver to the clerk of
that county, all papers filed therein, and certified copies of

all minutes and entries relating thereto; which must be
filed, entered, or recorded, as the case requires, in the office
of the last mentioned clerk. The provisions of section 271
of this act apply to an appeal taken from such an order.

§ 345. An order to stay proceedings, for -the purpose of
affording an opportunity to make the application for removal, may be made by the county judge, or by a judge
authorized to make such an order in the supreme court, and
with like effect and under like circumstances.

§ 346. The removal of an action or special proceeding, as
prescribed in this title, does not invalidate, or in any manner
impair, a process, provisional remedy, or other proceeding, or a bond, undertaking, or recognizance in the action
or special proceeding so removed; each of which continues
to have the same validity and effect, as if the removal had
not been made. Where bail was given, the surrender of
the defendant in the supreme court has the same effect, as
a surrender in the county court would have had, if the action or special proceeding had remained therein.

§ 347. A county court has power, in an action or special

'proceeding of which it has jurisdiction, to send its process

and other mandates into any county of the State, for service
or execution, and to enforce obedience thereto, with like
power and authority as the supreme court.

§ 348. Where a county court has jurisdiction of an action or a special proceeding, it possesses the same jurisdiction, power and authority in and over the same, and in the
course of the proceedings therein, which the supreme court

possesses in a like case; and it may render any judgment, or
grant either party any relief, which the supreme court might
render or grant in a like case, and may enforce its mandates
in like manner as the supreme court. And the county

judge possesses the same power and authority, in the action
or special proceeding, which a justice of the supreme court
possesses, in a like action or special proceeding, brought in
the supreme court.

§ 349. The county judge also possesses the same power
and authority, in a special proceeding which can be lawfully
instituted before him out of court, which a justice of the
supreme court possesses in a like special proceeding, instituted before him in like manner.

§ 350. Upon the application of a person, who has been
fined by a court, or of a person whose recognizance has become forfeited, or of his surety, the county court of the
county in which the term of the court was held, where the
fine was imposed or the recognizance taken, may, except as
otherwise prescribed in the next section, upon good cause
shown, and upon such terms as it deems just, make an order
remitting the fine, wholly or partly, or the forfeiture of the
recognizance, or part of the penalty thereof; or it may discharge the recognizance. If a fine so remitted has been

paid, the county treasurer, or other officer, in whose hands

the money remains, must pay the same, or the part remitted,
according to the order.

§ 351. The last section does not authorize a county court,
to remit any part of a fine, exceeding two hundred and
fifty dollars, imposed by a court of oyer and terminer, or
a court of sessions, upon a conviction for a criminal offense;
or a fine, to any amount, imposed by a court upon an officer
or other person, for an actual contempt of court, or for disobedience to its process or other mandate ; or to remit or discharge a recognizance taken in its county, for
the appearance of a person in another county. In the latter case, the power of remitting or discharging the recognizance is vested in the county court of the county, in which
the person is bound to appear. =

§ 352. An application for an order, as prescribed in the
last section but one, cannot be heard, until such notice
thereof as the court deems reasonable, has been given to the
district-attorney of the county, and until he has had an
opportunity to examine the matter, and prepare to resist
the application. And upon granting such an order, the
court must always impose, as a condition thereof, the payment of the costs and ‘expenses, if any, incurred in an action
or special proceeding for the collection of the line, or the
penalty of the recognizance.

§ 353. Where a person has been fined by a court of special sessions, or by a justice of the peace, upon ‘a conviction
for an offense, and has been committed to jail for non-payment of the fine, the county court of the county may make
an order remitting the fine, wholly or partly, and discharging him from his imprisonment. The power conferred by
this section must be exercised in the manner prescribed, and
subject to the provisions contained, in the last three sections.

§ 354. In an action or special proceeding in a county
court, an order may be made without notice, or an order to
stay proceedings may be made upon notice, by a justice of
the supreme court, or by the county judge of the county
where the attorney for the applicant resides, in a case Where
the county judge, in whose court the action or special proceeding is brought, may make the same out of court, and
with like effect.

§ 355. The county court is always open for the transaction of any business, for which notice is not required to be
given to an adverse party, except where it is specially prescribed by law, that the business must be done at a stated

  term. The county judge must, from time to time, appoint
the times and places for holding terms of his court. At
least two terms, for the trial of issues of law or of fact, must
be appointed to be held in each year. Each term may continue as long as the county judge deems necessary. The
county judge may, by a new appointment, change the day
appointed for holding a term, or appoint one or more additional terms, or dispense with the holding of a term, Without aifecting any other term or terms theretofore appointed
to be held. As many terms as the county judge designates
for that purpose, in an appointment, may be held for the
hearing and decision of motions, and trials and other proceedings, without a 

§ 356. Each appointment, made as prescribed in the last section, must be filed in the county clerk’s office, and a copy
thereof published at least once in each week, for three successive weeks before a term is held, changed, or dispensed
with by virtue thereof, in the newspaper in the city of
Albany, in which legal notices are required to be published,
and also in at least one newspaper published in the county,
and as many additional newspapers published therein as
the county judge prescribes. The expense of the publication is a county charge.

§ 357. Jurors for the terms of the county court, at which
issues of fact are triable by jury, and of the court of sessions, must be drawn and notified in the same manner as
for a term of the circuit court.

§ 358. The board of supervisors of any county, except!
Kings, Livingston, and Monroe, may provide for the employ-i
ment of a stenographer for the county court and court of 1
sessions thereof, and must fix his compensation, and provide
for the payment thereof, in the same manner as other county
expenses are paid.

§ 359. The county judge and the surrogate of the county:
of Kings, from time to time must appoint, and may at:
pleasure remove, a stenographer, to be attached to the:

county court, the court of sessions, and the surrogate’s court
of the county of Kings, Who is entitled to a salary, fixed
and to be paid as prescribed by law. He must attend each
trial of an issue of fact in the county court or court of
sessions; and, when his services are not required therein, he

must attend the surrogate’s court, upon the request of the
surrogate.

§ 360. The stenographer, appointed as prescribed in the
last section, may, with the consent either of the county judge
or of the surrogate, appoint an assistant-stenographer, to aid
him in the discharge of his duties, Whose compensation shall
be paid by the stenographer, and is not a county charge.

§ 361. The judge holding or presiding at a term of the
county court or court of sessions, in the county of Livingston
or in the county of Monroe, where issues of fact are triable,
may employ a stenographer to take stenographic notes upon
trials thereat, who is entitled to a compensation, to be certified by the judge, not exceeding ten dollars for each day’s
attendance, at the request of the judge. The stenographer’s

compensation is a charge upon the county, and must be
audited, allowed, and paid, as other county charges.

CHAPTER IV.

LIMITATION OF THE TIME OF ENFORCING A CIVIL
REMEDY.

TITLE I. -—A.0'l'ION8 FOR THE REoovERY or REAL PROPERTY.

TITLE II. / ‘i\o'r1oNs OTHER THAN FOR THE RECOVERY or REAL
PROPERTY.

TITLE III. — GENERAL PROVISIONS.

TITLE I.
Actions for the recovery of real prq>er#_z/.

362. When the people will not sue.
363. Action by grantee from the State.
864. Action after annulling letters patent. '
365, 366. Seizin within twenty years, when necessary, etc.
367. Action after entry or right of entry.

368. Possession, when presumed: occupation presumed to be under legal title.

369. Adverse possession under written instrument or judgment.
370. Id. ; what constitutes it.

371. Adverse possession under claim of title not written.

372. Id.; what constitutes it.

373. Relation of landlord and tenant, as afecting adverse possession.
374. Right not afected by descent cast.

375. Certain disabilities excluded from time to commence action.

§ 362. The people of the State will not sue a person for
or with respect to real property, or the issues or profits

thereof, by reason of the right or title of the people to the
same, unless: .

1. The cause of action accrued Within forty years before
the action is commenced; or,

2. The people, or those from Whom they claim, have received the rents and profits of the real property, or of
some part thereof, Within the same period of time.

§ 363. An action shall not be brought for or with
respect to real property, by a person claiming by virtue of
letters patent or a grant, from the people of the State, unless
it might have been maintained by the people, as prescribed

in this title, if the patent or grant had not been issued or
made.

§ 364. Where letters patent or a grant of real property,
issued or made by the people of the State, are declared
void by the determination of a competent court, rendered
upon an allegation of a fraudulent suggestion or concealment, or forfeiture, or mistake, or ignorance of a material
fact, or Wrongful detaining, or defective title: an action of
ejectment to recover the premises in question may be commenced, either by the people, or by a subsequent patentce
or grantee of the same premises, his heirs, or assigns, within
twenty years after the determination is made; but not after
that period. ’

§ 365. An action to recover real property, or the possession thereof, cannot be maintained by a party, other than
the people, unless the plaintifff, his ancestor, predecessor, or
grantor, Was seized or possessed of the premises in question, within twenty years before the commencement of the
action.

§ 366. A defense or counterclaim, founded upon the title
to real property, or to rents or services out of the same, is
not effectual, unless the person making it, or under Whose title it is made, or his ancestor, predecessor, or grantor was
seized or possessed of the premises in_ question, Within
twenty years before the committing of the act, with respect
to Which it is made.

§ 367. An entry upon real property is not sufiicient or
valid as a claim, unless an action is commenced thereupon,

within one year after the making thereof, and within
twenty years after the time, When the right to make it
descended or accrued.

§ 368. In an action to recover real property, or the possession thereof, the person who establishes a legal title to
the premises is presumed to have been possessed thereof,
within the time required by law; and the occupation of the
premises, by another person, is deemed to have been under
and in subordination to the legal title, unless the premises
have been held and possessed adversely to the legal title,
for twenty years before the commencement of the action.

§ 369. Where the occupant, or those under Whom he
claims, entered into the possession of the premises under
claim of title, exclusive of any other right, founding the

claim upon a Written instrument, as being a conveyance of
the premises in question, or upon the decree or judgment
of a competent court; and there has been a continued
occupation and possession of the premises included in the
instrument, decree, or judgment, or of some part thereof, for
twenty years, under the same claim; the premises so included are deemed to have been held adversely: except that
where they consist of a tract, divided into lots, the possession
of one lot is not deemed a possession of any other lot.

§ 370. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession, by a person claiming a title founded upon a written
instrument, or a judgment or decree, land is deemed to have
been possessed and occupied in either of the following cases :
1. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.
2. Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure.
3. Where, although not inclosed, it has been used for the
supply of fuel or of fencing timber, either for the purposes
of husbandry, or for the ordinary use of the occupant.
Where a known farm or a single lot has been partly improved, the portion of the farm or lot that has been left

not cleared, or not inclosed, according to the usual course
and custom of the adjoining country, is deemed to have been
occupied for the same length of time, as the part improved

and cultivated.

§ 371. Where there has been an actual continued occupation of premises, under a claim of title, exclusive of any
other right, but not founded upon a written instrument, or
a judgment or decree, the premises so actually occupied,
and no others, are deemed to have been held adversely.

§ 372. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession, by a person claiming title not founded upon a written
instrument, or a judgment or decree, land is deemed to have
been possessed and occupied in either of the following cases,
and no others:

1. Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure.

2. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.

§ 373. Where the relation of landlord and tenant has
existed between any persons, the possession of the tenant
' is deemed the possession of the landlord, until the expiration of twenty years after the termination of the tenancy ;
or, where there has been no written lease, until the expiration of twenty years after the last payment of rent; notwithstanding that the tenant has acquired another title, or
has claimed to hold adversely to" his landlord. But this
presumption shall not be made, after the periods prescribed
in this section.

§ 374. The right of a person to the possession of real
property is not impaired or aifected, by a descent being cast,
in consequence of the death of a person in possession of the

property.

§ 375. If a person, who might maintain an action to recover real property, or the possession thereof, or make an

entry, or interpose a defense or counterclaim, founded on
the title to real property, or to rents or services out of the
same, is, when his title first descends, or his cause of action
or right of entry first accrues, either:

1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or,

2. Insane; or,

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon
conviction of a criminal offense, for a term less than for life;

The time of such a disability is not a part of the time,
limited in this title, for commencing the action, or making
the entry, or interposing the defense or counterclaim; except
that the time so limited cannot be extended more than ten
years, after the disability ceases, or after the death of the
person so disabled.

TITLE 11.
Act/ions oth.er than for the recovery of real property.

Sac. 376. When satisfaction of judgment presumed.

377. Efect of return of execution.

378. How presumption raised.

379. Limitation of action to redeem from a mortgage.

380. Other periods of limitation.

881. Within twenty years. ,
382. Within six years.

383. Within three years.

384. Within two years.

385. Within one year.

386. When cause of action accrues on a current account.

387. Action for penalty, etc., by any person who will sue.

388. Actions not before provided for.

389. Actions by the people subject to the same limitations.

390. Action against a non-resident, upon a demand barred by the law of his

residence.
391. When person liable, etc., dies without the State.
392. Cause of action accruing between the death of a testator or intestate,
and the grant of letters.

393. N o limitation of action on bank notes, etc.

394. Action against directors, etc., of banks.

895. Acknowledgment or new promise must be in writing.

396. Exceptions, as to persons under disabilities.

397. Defence or counterclaim.

§ 376. A final judgment or decree for a sum of money, or
directing the payment of a sum of money, heretofore or hereafter rendered, in acourt of record within the United States,
or elsewhere, or in a surrogate’s court of the State, is presumed to be paid and satisfied, after the expiration of twenty
years from the time, when the party recovering it was first
entitled to a mandate to enforce it. This presumption is
conclusive ; except as against a person, who, within twenty
years from that time, makes a payment or acknowledges an
indebtedness of some part of the amount recovered by the
judgment or decree; or his heir or personal representative; or a person whom be otherwise represents. Such an
acknowledgment must he in writing, and signed by the
person to be charged thereby.

§ 377. If the proof of payment, under the last section,
consists of the return of an execution partly satisfied, the
adverse party may show, in full avoidance of the effect
thereof, that the alleged partial satisfaction did not proceed
from a payment made, or a sale of property claimed, by
him, or by a person whom he represents.

§ 378. A person may avail himself of the presumption
created by the last section but one, under an allegation that
the action was not commenced, or that the proceeding was
not taken, within the time therein limited.

§ 379. An action to redeem real property from a mortgage,
with or without an account of rents and profits, may be
maintained by the mortgagor, or those claiming under him,
against the mortgagee in possession, or those claiming under
him, unless he or they have continuously maintained an
adverse possession of the mortgaged premises, for twenty
years after the breach of a condition of the mortgage, or
the non-fulfilment of a covenant therein contained.

§ 380. The following actions must be commenced within
the following periods, after the cause of action has accrued.

§ 381. Within twenty years:

An action upon a sealed instrument.

But Where the action is brought for breach of a covenant
of seizin, or against encumbrances, the cause of action is
deemed to have accrued upon an eviction, and not before.

§ 382. Within six years:

1. An action to recover damages for breach of a contract,
express or implied; except a judgment or sealed instrument.

2. An action to recover upon a liability created by
statute; except a penalty or forfeiture.

3. An action to recover damages for an injury to property,
or a personal injury; except in a case Where a different
period is expressly prescribed in this chapter.

4. An action to recover a chattel.

5. An action to procure a judgment, other than for a sum
of money, on the ground of fraud, in a case which, on the
thirty-first day of December, 1846, was cognizable by the
court of chancery. The cause of action, in such a. case, is
not deemed to have accrued, until the discovery, by the
plaintifff, or the person under Whom he claims, of the facts
constituting the fraud.

6. An action to establish a Will. Where the will has
been lost, concealed or destroyed, the cause of action is not
deemed to have accrued, until the discovery, by the plaintifff, or the person under whom he claims, of the facts upon
which its validity depends.

7. An action upon a judgment or decree, rendered in a
court not of record, except a surrogate’s court of the State.
The cause of action, in such a case, is deemed to have
accrued, When final judgment Was rendered.

§ 383. Within three years:

1. An action against a sheriff, coroner, constable or other

officer, for the non-payment of money collected upon an
execution.

2. An action against a constable, upon any other liability

incurred by him, by doing an act in his ofiicial capacity, or
by the omission of an official duty; except an escape.

3. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture,
where the action is given to the person aggrieved, or to
that person and the people of the State; except where the
statute imposing it prescribes a different limitation.

4. An action against an executor, administrator, or receiver, or against the trustee of an insolvent debtor, appointed,
as prescribed by law, in a special proceeding instituted in
a court or before a judge, brought to recover a chattel, or
damages for taking, detaining, or injuring personal property, by the defendant, or the person whom he represents.

§ 384. Within two years:

1. An action to recover damages for libel, slander, assault,
battery, or false imprisonment.

2. An action upon a statute, for a forfeiture or penalty to
the people of the State.

§ 385. Within one year:

1. An action against a sheriff or coroner, upon a liability
incurred by him, by doing an act in his official capacity, or
by the omission of an oliicial duty; except the non-payment
of money collected upon an execution.

2. An action against any other officer, for the escape of a

prisoner, arrested or imprisoned by virtue of a civil mandate.

§ 386. In an action brought to recover a balance due
upon a mutual, open, and current account, where there have
been reciprocal demands between the parties, the cause of
action is deemed to have accrued from the time of the last
item, proved in the account on either side.

§ 387. An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, given wholly or partly to any person who will prosecute for the same, must be commenced Within one year

after the commission of the offense; and if the action is not
commenced within the year by a private person, it may be
commenced within two years thereafter, in behalf of the
people of the State, by the attorney-general, or the districtattorney of the county where the offense was committed.

§ 388. An action, the limitation of which is not specially
prescribed in this or the last title, must be commenced
within ten years after the cause of action accrues.

§ 389. The limitations, prescribed in this title, apply
alike to actions brought in the name of the people of the
State, or for their benefit, and to actions by private persons.

§ 390. Where a cause of action, which does not involve
the title to or possession of real property Within the State,
accrues against a person, who is not then a resident of the
State, an action cannot be brought thereon in a court of the
State, against him or his personal representative, after the
expiration of the time, limited, by the laws of his residence,
for bringing a like action, except by aresident of the State
and in one of the following cases:

1. Where the cause of action originally accrued in favor
of a resident of the State. .

2. Where, before the expiration of the time so limited,
the person, in Whose favor it originally accrued, was or
became a resident of the State; or the cause of action was
assigned to, and thereafter continuously owned by, a resident of the State.

§ 391. If a person, against whom a cause of action exists,
dies Without the State, the time which elapses between his
death, and the expiration of eighteen months after the issuing, within the State, of letters testamentary or letters of
administration, is not a part of the time limited for the
commencement of an action for the same cause, against his
executor or administrator.

§ 392. For the purpose of computing the time, within
Which an action must be commenced in a court of the State,
by an executor or administrator, to recover personal property taken after the death of a testator or intestate, and
before the issuing of letters testamentary or letters of administration; or to recover damages for taking, detaining,
or injuring personal property within the same period; the
letters are deemed to have been issued, immediately after
the death of the testator or intestate. But Where an
action is barred by this section, any of the next of kin, legatees, or creditors, Who, at the time of the transaction upon
which it might have been founded, Was Within the age of
twenty-one years, or insane, or imprisoned on a criminal
charge, may, Within five years after the cessation of such a
disability, maintain an action to recover damages by reason
thereof: in which he may recover such sum, or the value of
such property, as he would have received upon the final distribution of the estate, if an action had been seasonably
commenced by the executor or administrator.

§ 393. This chapter does not affect an action to enforce
the payment of a bill, note, or other evidence of debt,
issued by a moneyed corporation, or issued or put in circulation as money.

§ 394. This chapter does not affect an action against a
director or stockholder of a moneyed corporation, or banking association, to recover a penalty or forfeiture imposed,
or to enforce a liability created by law; but such an action
must be brought Within six years after the discovery, by

the aggrieved party, of the facts upon which the penalty
or forfeiture attached, or the liability was created.

§ 395. An acknowledgment or promise, contained in a
Writing, signed by the party to be charged thereby, is the
only competent evidence of a new or continuing contract,

whereby to take a case out of the operation of this title.

But this section does not alter the effect of a payment of
principal or interest.

§ 396. If a person, entitled to maintain an action specified
in this title, except for a penalty or forfeiture, or against a
sheriff or other officer for an escape, is, at the time when the
cause of action accrues, either:

1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or,

2. Insane ; or,

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon
conviction of a criminal offense, for a term less than for life;

The time of such a disability is not a part of the time,
limited in this title for commencing the action ; except that
the time so limited cannot be extended more than five years
by any such disability, except infancy; or, in any case, more
than one year after the disability ceases. I

§ 397. A cause of action, upon which an action cannot be
maintained, as prescribed in this title, cannot be effectually
interposed as a defense or counterclaim.

TITLE III.
General provisions.

SIG. 898. When action deemed to be commenced.

899. Attempt to commence action in a court of record.
400. Id.; in a court not of record.

401. Exception, when defendant is without the State.

402. Id. ; when a person entitled, etc., dies before limitation expires.
408. Id. ; when a person liable, etc., dies within the State.

404. In suits by aliens, time of disability in case of war to be deducted.
405. Provision where judgment has been reversed.

406. Stay by injunction, etc., to be deducted.

407. Certain actions by a principal, for misconduct of an agent, etc.
408. Disability must exist when right accrues.

409. If several disabilities, no limitation until all removed.

410. Provision when the action cannot be maintained without a demand.
411. Provision in case of submission to arbitration.

412. Provision when action is discontinued, etc., after answer.
413. How objection taken, under this chapter.
414. Cases to which this chapter applies.

415. Mode of computing periods of limitation.

§ 398. An action is commenced against a defendant,
within the meaning of any provision of this act, which limits
the time for commencing an action, when the summons is
served on him; or, except where he is not a resident of the
State, on a co-defendant who is a joint contractor, or otherwise united in interest with him.

§ 399. An attempt to commence an action, in a court of
record, is equivalent to the commencement thereof against

each defendant, within the meaning of each provision of this

act which limits the time for commencing an action, when
the summons is delivered, with the intent that it shall be
actually served, to the sheriff, or, where the sheriff is a party,
to a coroner of the county, in which that defendant, or one
of two or more co-defendants, who are joint contractors, or
otherwise united in interest with him, resides or last resided ;
or, if the defendant is a corporation, to a like officer of the
county, in which it is established by law, or wherein its general business is or was last transacted, or wherein it keeps,
or last kept, an office for the transaction of business. But in
order to entitle a plaintifff to the benefit of this section, the
delivery of the summons to an officer must be followed,
within sixty days after the expiration of the time limited
for the actual commencement of the action, by personal service thereof upon the defendant sought to be charged, or
by the first publication of the summons, as against that
defendant, pursuant to an order for service upon him in that
manner.

§ 400. The last section, excluding the provision requiring
a publication or service of the summons within sixty days,
applies to an attempt to commence an action, in a court not
of record, where the summons is delivered to an officer authorized to serve the same, within the city or town, wherein
the person resides or the corporation is located, as specified
in that section; provided that actual service thereof is made
with due diligence.

§ 401. If, When the cause of action accrues against a
person, he is Without the State, the action may be commenced within the time limited therefore, after his return
into the State. If, after a cause of action has accrued
against a person, he departs from and resides without the
State, or "remains continuously absent therefrom for' the
space of one year or more, the time of his absence is not a
part of the time, limited for the commencement of the

action.

§ 402. If a person, entitled to maintain an action, dies
before the expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause of action survives, an action
may be commenced by his representative, after the expiration of that time, and Within one year after his death.

§ 403. If a person, against whom a cause of action exists,
dies Within the State, before the expiration of the time
limited for the commencement of an action thereon, and the
cause of action survives against his executor or administra
tor, an action therefore may be commenced after the expiratinn of that time, and within eighteen months after his
death, but not afterwards, unless letters testamentary or letters of administration are not issued within the State, until
the expiration of six months after his death; in which case
the action may be commenced Within one year, after the
letters are issued.

§ 404. Where a person is disabled to sue in the courts
of the State, by reason of either party being an alien subject or citizen of a country, at war with the United States,
the time of the continuance of the disability is not a part

of the time limited for the commencement of the action.

§ 405. If an action is commenced Within the time limited

therefore, and a judgment therein is reversed on appeal,
without awarding a new trial, or the action is terminated

in any other manner than by a voluntary discontinuance, a
dismissal of the complaint for neglect to prosecute the
action, or a final judgment upon the merits; the plaintifff,
or, if he dies, and the cause of action survives, his representative, may commence a new action for the same cause,
after the expiration of the time so limited, and within one

year after such a reversal or termination.

§ 406. Where the commencement of an action has been
stayed by injunction, or other order of a court or judge, or
by statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance of
the stay is not a part of the time, limited for the commencement of the action

§ 407. Where an injury results from the act or omission
of a deputy or agent, the time, within which an action to
recover damages by reason thereof, must be commenced by

the principal, against the deputy or agent, must be computed
from the time, when a judgment against the principal, for
the act or omission, is first recovered by the aggrieved person; and a subsequent reversal or setting aside of the judgment does not extend the time.

§ 408. A person cannot avail himself of a disability
unless it existed when his right of action or of entry accrued.

§ 409. Where two or more disabilities co-exist, when the
I right of action or of entry accrues, the limitation does not
attach, until all are removed.

§ 410. Where a right exists, but a demand is necessary

to entitle a person to maintain an action, the time, within

which the action must be commenced, must be computed

t from the time, when the right to make the demand is complete; except in one of the following cases:

1. Where the right grows out of the receipt or detention

of money or property, by an agent, trustee, attorney; or

other person acting in a fiduciary capacity, the time must
be computed from the time, when the person, having the
right to make the demand, has actual knowledge of the
facts, upon which that right depends.

2. Where there was a deposit of money, not to be repaid
at a fixed time, but only upon a special demand, or a delivery
of personal property, not to be returned, specifically or in
kind, at a fixed time or upon a fixed contingency, the time
must be computed from the demand.

§ 411. Where the persons, who might be adverse parties
in an action, have entered into a written agreement to submit to arbitration, or to refer the cause of action, or a controversy in which it might be available, or have entered into
a written submission thereof to arbitrators; and before an
award, or other determination thereupon, the agreement or
submission is revoked, so as to render it ineffectual, by the
death of either party thereto, or by the act of the person
against whom the action might have been brought; or the
execution thereof, or the remedy upon an award or other
determination thereunder, is stayed by injunction, or other
order procured by him from a competent court or judge;
the time which has elapsed, between the entering into the
written submission or agreement, and the revocation thereof,
or the expiration of the stay, is not a part of the time, limited for the commencement of the action.

§ 412. Where a defendant in an action has interposed an
answer, in support of which he would be entitled to «rely, =
at the trial, upon a defense or counterclaim then existing in 
his favor, the remedy upon which, at the time of the com-=
mencement of the action, was not barred by the provisions
of this chapter; and the complaint is dismissed, or the
action is discontinued, or abates in consequence of the plaintifff’s death; the time which intervened, between the commencement and the termination of the action, is not a part
of the time, limited for the commencement of an action by
the defendant, to recover for the cause of action so interposed

as a defense, or to interpose the same defense in another
action brought by the same plaintifff, or a person deriving title from or under him.

§ 413. The objection, that the action was not commenced
within the time limited, can be taken only by answer. The
corresponding objection to a defense or counterclaim can be
taken only by reply; except where a reply is not required,
in order to enable the plaintifff to raise an issue of fact, upon
an allegation contained in the answer.

§ 414. The provisions of this chapter apply, and constitute the only rules of limitation applicable, to a civil action
or special proceeding, except in one of the following cases:

1. A case, where a different limitation is specially prescribed by law, or a shorter limitation is prescribed by the
written contract of the parties. ” _

2. A cause of action or a defense which accrued before

the first day of July, 1848. The statutes then in force govern, with respect to such a cause of action or defense.

3. A case, not included in the last subdivision, in which
a person is entitled, when this act takes effect, to commence
an action, or to institute a special proceeding, or to take
any proceeding therein, «or to pursue a remedy upon a
judgment, where he commences, institutes, or otherwise
resorts to the same, before the expiration of two years after
this act takes effect; in either of which cases, the provisions
of law applicable thereto, immediately before this act takes
effect, continue to be so applicable, notwithstanding the
repeal thereof.

4. A case, where the time to commence an action has
expired, when this act takes effect.

The word, “action,” contained in this chapter, is to be
construed, when it is necessary so to do, as including a
special proceeding, or any proceeding therein, or in an
action.

§ 415. The periods of limitation, prescribed by this chapter, except as otherwise specially prescribed therein, must be computed from the time of the acruing of the right to relief by action, special proceeding, defense, or otherwise, as the case requires, to the time when the claim to that relief is actually interposed by the party, as a plaintifff or defendant, in the particular action or special proceeding.

CHAPTER V.

COMMENCEMENT OF AND PARTIES TO AN
ACTION.

TITLE I. -— Comnmomrmrr or an M71101.

TITLE II. — Purrms To an AO'l‘I0lI'.

TITLE L
 m of an action.

An'rIoLn 1. The summons and accompanying papers; personal service thereof ;
appearance of the defendant.

2. Substitutes for personal service in special cases.

ARTICLE FIRST.

THE Summons am) AOOOICPANYING Parnas: ransoiur. Snnvrcn rnnnnor;
Arrnanancn or rm: Dnnnnmr.

416. Action to be commenced by summons; time when court acquires jurisdiction.
417. Requisites of summons.
418. Form of summons.

419. Service of copy complaint or notice with summons; consequence of
failure.

420. Cases where such service must be ‘made.

421. Appearance of defendant.

422. When defendant must answer at time of appearing.

423. Notice of no personal claim; effect of service thereof.

424. Effect of voluntary appearance.

425. Summons; when and by whom served. Sheriffs duty.

426. How personal service of summons made upon a natural person.

427, 428. Id.; in certain cases of infancy, or lunacy, etc., not judicially

declared.
429. Id. ; when delivery of copy to lunatic dispensed with.
430. Designation, by a resident, of a person upon whom to serve a summons
during his absence ; efect and revocation thereof.

431. How personal service of summons made upon a domestic corporation.
432. Id.; upon a foreign corporation.

438. Service of process, etc., to commence a special proceeding.

434. Proof of service of summons, etc.; how made.

§ 416. A civil action is commenced by the service of a
summons. But from the time of the granting of a provisional remedy, the court acquires jurisdiction, and has
control of all the subsequent proceedings. Nevertheless,
jurisdiction thus acquired is conditional, and liable to be
divested, in a case where the jurisdiction of the court is
made dependent, by a special provision of law, upon some
act, to be done after the granting of the provisional remedy.

§ 417. The summons must specify the court in which the
action is brought; it must be directed to all the defendants
by name; it must contain the names of all the plaintifffs;
and it must be subscribed by the plaintifff’s attorney, who
must add to his signature his office address, including the
post-office, which must be at a place within the State. If it
is in a city, he must add the street, and the street number,
if any, or other suitable designation of the particular

locality.

/
§ 418. The summons, exclusive of the subscription, must
be substantially in the following form, the blanks being

properly filled up:

“The People of the State of New York,
“ To :

“ You are hereby summoned to appear in the
court , within twenty days after service of this
writ, exclusive of the day of service, to answer the complaint of , in a civil action”  in the supreme
court, add, “ triable in the county of ”); “and in

case of your failure so to appear, judgment will pass against
you by -default.

“Witness , one of the justices”
(or “judges ”) “of the court” (or “county judge”, or otherwise, as the case requires), “the day of , in the

year .”

§ 419. A copy of the complaint may be served with the
summons. In a case specified in the next section, nnless
they are served together, or a notice is served with the summons, to the effect that, upon default, judgment will be

’ taken for a specified sum of money, for which the complaint

also demands judgment, the plaintifff cannot take a judgment by default, without a special application to the court
therefore. If the defendant has appeared, the application
can be granted only upon payment of his taxable costs.

§ 420. A case referred to in the last section, is where
the complaint sets forth one or more causes of action,
each consisting of the breach of an express contract to pay,
absolutely or upon a contingency, a sum or sums of money,
fixed by the terms of the contract, or capable of being
ascertained therefrom, by computation only; or an express
or implied contract to pay money received or disbursed, or
the value of property delivered, or of services rendered by,
to, or for the use of, the defendant or a third person; and
thereupon demands judgment for a sum of money only.
This section includes a case, where the breach of the contract, set forth in the complaint, is only partial; or where .

the complaint shows that the amount of the p1aintifI"s
demand has been reduced by payment, counterclaim, or
other credit.

§ 421. The defendant’s appearance must be made by
serving upon the plaintifff’s attorney, within twenty days
after service of the summons, exclusive of the day of service,
a notice of appearance, or a copy of a demurrer or of an
answer. A notice or pleading,Iso served, must be subscribed by the defendant’s attorney, who must add to his
signature his office address, with the particulars prescribed
in section 417 of this act, concerning the office address of
the plaintifff’s attorney.

§ 422. A defendant, upon whom the plaintifff has served,
with the summons, a copy of the complaint, must serve a

copy of his demurrer or answer upon the plaintifffs attorney,
before the expiration of the time, Within which the summons requires him to appear.

§ 423. Where a personal claim is not made against a
defendant, a notice, subscribed by the plaintifff’s attorney,
setting forth the general object of the action, a brief description of the property affected by it, if it affects specific
real or personal property, and that a personal claim is not
made against him, may be served with the summons. If
the defendant so served, unreasonably defends the action,
costs must be awarded against him.

§ 424. A voluntary general appearance of the defendant
is equivalent to personal service of the summons upon him.

§ 425. The summons may be served by any person, other
than a party to the action, except Where it is otherwise
specially prescribed by law. The plaintifff's attorney may,
by an indorsement on the summons, fix a time within which
the service thereof must be made: in that case, the service
cannot be made afterwards. Where a summons is delivered
for service to the sheriff of the county wherein the defendant is found, the sheriff must serve it, and return it, with
proof of service, to the plaintifff’s attorney, with reasonable
diligence.

§ 426. Personal service of the summons upon a defendant, being a natural person, must be made by delivering a
copy thereof as follows: ‘

1. If the defendant is an infant, under the age of fourteen
years, to the infant in person, and also to his father, mother,
or guardian; or, if there is none within the State, to the
person having the care and control of him, or with whom he
resides, or in whose service he is employed.

2. If the defendant is a person judicially declared to be
incompetent to manage his affairs, in consequence of lunacy,

idiocy, or habitual drunkenness, and for whom a committee

has been appointed, to the committee, and also to the
defendant in person.

3. In any other case, to the defendant in person.

§ 427. If the defendant is an infant of the age of fourteen
years, or upwards, or if the court has, in its opinion, reason» able ground to believe, that the defendant, by reason of

habitual drunkenness, or for any other cause, is mentally
incapable adequately to protect his rights, although not
judicially declared to be incompetent to manage his affairs,
the court may, in its discretion, with or without an application therefore, and in the defendant’s interest, make an order,
requiring a copy of the summons to be also delivered, in
behalf of the defendant, to a person designated in the order,
and that service of the summons shall not be deemed complete, until it is so delivered.

§ 428. In a case specified in subdivision first or second of
the last section but one, where the court has, in its opinion,
reasonable ground to believe, that the interest of the person,
other than the defendant, to Whom a copy of the summons
has been delivered, is adverse to that of the defendant, or
that, for any reason, he is not a tit person to protect the
rights of the defendant, it may likewise make an order, as
prescribed in the last section. In a case specified in subdivision second, the court may, as a part of the same order, or
by a separate order, made, in like manner and upon like
ground, at any stage of the action, appoint a special guardian ad litem to conduct the defense for the incompetent
defendant, to the exclusion of the committee, and with the
same powers, and subject to the same liabilities, as a committee of the property.

§ 429. Where the defendant has been judicially declared
to be incompetent to manage his affairs, in consequence of
lunacy, and it appears satisfactorily to the court, by affidavit, that the delivery of a copy of the summons to him, in
person, will tend to aggravate his disorder, or to lessen the
probability of his recovery, the court may make an order,
dispensing with such delivery. In that case, a delivery of a
copy of the summons, to a committee duly appointed for
him, is sufiicient personal service upon the defendant.

§ 430. A resident of the State, of full age, may execute,
under his hand, and acknowledge, in the manner required
by law to entitle a deed to be recorded, a written designation
of another resident of the State, as a person upon whom to
serve a summons, or any process or other paper for the commencement of a civil special proceeding, in any court or
before any officer, during the absence from the United
States of the person making the designation ; and may file
the same, with the written consent of the person so designated, executed and acknowledged in the same manner, in
the office of the clerk of the county, where the person making
the designation resides. The designation must specify the
occupation, or other proper addition, and the residence of the
person making it, and also of the person designated: and it
remains in force during the period specified therein, if any;
or, if no period is specified for that purpose, for three years
after the filing thereof. But it is revoked earlier, by the
death or legal incompetency of either of the parties thereto;
or by the filing of a revocation thereof, or of the consent,
executed and acknowledged in like manner. The clerk must
lile and record such a designation, consent, or revocation;
and must note, upon the record of the original designation,
the filing and recording of a revocation. While the designation remains in force, as prescribed in this section, a summons,
or any process or other paper for the commencement of a
civil special proceeding, against the person making it, in any
court or before any officer, may be served upon the person
so designated, in like manner and with like effect, as if it was
served upon the person making the designation, notwithstanding the return of the latter to the United States.

§ 431. Personal service of the summons upon a defendant, being a domestic corporation, must be made by delivering a copy thereof, as follows:

1. If the action is against the mayor, aldermen, and commonalty of the city of New-York, to the mayor, comptroller,
or counsel to the corporation.

2. If the action is against any other city, to the mayor,
treasurer, counsel, attorney, or clerk; or, if the city lacks
either of those officers, to the officer performing corresponding functions, under another name.

3. In any other case, to the president or other head of the
corporation, the secretary or clerk to the corporation, the
cashier, the treasurer, or a director or managing agent.

§ 432. Personal service of the summons, Within the State,
upon a defendant, being a foreign corporation, must be made
by delivering a copy thereof, as follows:

1. To the president, treasurer, or secretary; or, if the corporation lacks either of those officers, to the oiiicer performing corresponding functions, under another name.

2. To a person designated for the purpose by a writing,
under the seal of the corporation, and the signature of its
president, vice-president, or other acting head, accompanied
with the written consent of the person designated, and filed
in the office of the secretary of State. The designation
must specify a place, within the State, as the office or residence of the person designated; and, if it is within a city,
the street, and street number, if any, or other suitable
designation of the particular locality. It remains in force,
until the filing in the same oiiice of a Written revocation
thereof, or of the consent executed in like manner; but the
person designated may, from time to time, change the place
specified as his office or residence, to some other place Within
the State, by a writing, executed by him. and filed in like
manner. The secretary of State may require the execution
of any instrument, specified in this section, to be authenticated as he deems proper, and he may refuse to file it without
such an authentication. An exemplified copy of a designation so filed, accompanied with a certificate that it has not
been revoked, is presumptive evidence of the execution
thereof, and conclusive evidence of the authority of the
officer executing it.

3. If such a designation is not in force, or if neither the
person designated, nor an officer specified in subdivision
first of this section,’ can be found with due diligence, and
the corporation has property within the State, or the cause
of action arose therein ; to the cashier, a director, or agent
of the corporation, or a person doing business for it, within
the State.

§ 433. The provisions of this article, relating to the mode
of service of a summons, apply likewise to the service of
any process or other paper, whereby a special proceeding is
commenced in a court, or before an officer, except a proceeding to punish for contempt, and except where special provision for the service thereof is otherwise made by law.

§ 434. Proof of service, as prescribed in this article, must
be made by afhdavit, except as follows:

1. If the service was made by the sheriff, it may be
proved by his certificate thereof.

2. Ifthe defendant served is an adult, who has not been
judicially declared to be incompetent to manage his affairs,
the service may be proved by a written‘ admission, signed
by him, and either acknowledged by him, and certified in
like manner as a deed to be recorded in the county, or
accompanied with the affidavit of a person, other than the
plaintifff, showing that the signature is genuine.

A certificate, admission, or affidavit of service of a summons, must state the time and place of service. A written
admission of the service of a summons, or of a paper accompanying the same, imports, unless otherwise expressly stated
therein, or otherwise plainlyto be inferred from its contents,

that a copy of the paper was delivered to the person signing
the. admission.

ARTICLE SECOND.

Sonsrrrums ron rnnsomu. Snnvron IN armour. Casns.

S130. 435. Order for service of summons from supreme court, when defendant not
found, etc.

486. How service must be made.
437. Papers to be med; proof of service.
438. Cases in which service of summons by publication may be ordered.
439. Papers upon which order for publication may be made.
440. By whom order may be made ; contents of order.
441. When publication must be commenced; when service deemed complete.
442. Papers to be filed ; notice to defendant.
443. Id. ; when service is made without the State.

444. Proof of service.
445. Defendant when allowed to defend.

§ 435. Where a summons is issued from the supreme
court, an order for the service thereof, as prescribed in the
next section, upon a defendant residing Within the State,
may be made by the court, or a judge thereof, or the county
judge of the county Where the action is triable, upon satisfactory proof, by the affidavit of a person, not a party to the
action, or by the return of the sheriff of the county Where
the defendant resides, that proper and diligent effort has
been made to serve the summons upon the defendant, and
that the place of his sojourn cannot be ascertained, or, if he
is within the State, that he avoids service, so that personal
service cannot be made.

§ 436. The order must direct, that the service of the

summons be made, by leaving a copy thereof, and of the

order, at the residence of the defendant, with a person

of proper age, if upon reasonable application, admittance
can be obtained, and such a person found who will receive

it; or, if admittance cannot be so obtained, or such a person found, by aiiixing the same to the outer or other door
of the defendant’s residence, and by depositing another copy

thereof, properly inclosed in a post-paid wrapper, addressed
to him, at his place of residence, in the post-office at the

place where he resides.

§ 437. The order, and the papers upon which it was
granted, must be filed, and the service must be made, within
ten days after the order is granted; otherwise the order
becomes inoperative. On filing an affidavit, showing service

according to the order, the summons is deemed served, and
the same proceedings may be taken thereupon, as if it had
been served by publication, or by delivery to the defendant
without the State, pursuant to an order for that purpose,
made as prescribed in the next section.

§ 438. An order, directing the service of a summons upon
a defendant, without the State, or by publication, may be
made in either of the following cases:

1. Where the defendant to be served is a foreign corporation; or, being a natural person, is not a resident of the
State.

2. Where the defendant, being a resident of the State,
has departed therefrom, with intent to defraud his creditors,
or to avoid the service of a summons; or keeps himself concealed therein, with like intent.

3. Where the defendant, being an adult, and a resident
of the State, has been continuously without the United
States more than six months next before the granting of
the order, and has not made a designation of a person, upon
whom to serve a summons in his behalf, as prescribed in section 430 of this act; or a designation so made no longer
remains in force; or service upon the person so designated
cannot be made Within the State, after diligent effort.

4. Where the defendant is a resident of the State, and
the complaint demands judgment annulling a marriage, or
for a divorce, or a separation.

5. Where the defendant is a resident of the State, or a
domestic corporation, and the complaint demands udgment,
that the defendant be excluded from a vested or contingent
interest in, or lien upon, specific real or personal property
within the State; or that such an interest or lien in favor
of either party be enforced, 1'egula.ted, defined, or limited;
or otherwise affecting the title to such property.

6. Where the defendant is a resident of the State, or a
domestic corporation; and an attempt was made to commence the action against the defendant, as required in chapter fourth of this act, before the expiration of the limitation applicable thereto, as fixed in that chapter; and the
limitation would have expired, within sixty days next preceding the application, if the time had not been extended by
the attempt to commence the action.

7. Where the action is against the stockholders of a corporation, or joint-stock company, and is authorized by a law
of the State, and the defendant is a stockholder thereof.

§ 439. The plaintifff, when he applies for the order, must
present to the judge a verified complaint, showing that he
is entitled to the judgment demanded, against the defendant to be served; and, where the application is made
under subdivision fourth or fifth of the last section, that
the judgment is of the character therein specified. If a
material allegation of the complaint, entitling the plaintifff
to the judgment demanded, is not made upon the knowledge
of the person verifying, other satisfactory proof thereof
must be made by affidavit. Proof by affidavit must also be
made of the additional facts, required by the last section;
and, where the application is made under subdivision first,
fourth, fifth or seventh thereof, the order shall not be
granted, unless the judge is satisfied, by the papers presented, that the plaintifff has been or will be unable, with
due diligence, to make personal service of the summons

within the State.

§ 440. The order may be made by a judge of the court,
or the county judge of the county where the action is triable. It must direct that service of the summons, upon the
defendant named or described in the order, be made by

publication thereof in two newspapers, designated in the
order as most likely to give notice to the defendant, for a
specified time, which the judge deems reasonable, not less
than once a week for six weeks; or, at the option of the

plaintifff, by service of the summons, and of a copy of the
complaint and order, upon the defendant personally, Without the State; or, if the defendant is a corporation, upon an
officer thereof, specified in section 432 of this act. It must
also contain, either a direction, that, on or before the day
of the lirst publication, the plaintifff deposit in a specified
post-office, one or more sets of copies of the summons, complaint and order, each contained in a securely closed postpaid Wrapper, directed to the defendant, at a place specified
in the order; or a statement that the judge, being satisfied,
by the af1"1davits upon which the order was granted, that
the plaintifff cannot, with reasonable diligence, ascertain a
place or places, Where the defendant would probably receive
matter transmitted through the post-office, dispenses with

the deposit of any papers therein.

§ 441. The first publication, pursuant to the order, or the
service upon the defendant, Without the State, must be made
Within three months after the order is granted. For the
purpose of reckoning the time, Within Which the defendant
must appear or answer, service by publication is complete,
at the expiration of the time prescribed for publication,
reckoning from the first publication ; and service made Without the State is complete, upon the expiration thereafter of

a time equal to that prescribed for publication.

§ 442. Where service is made by publication, the summons, complaint, and order, and the papers upon Which the
order Was made, must be filed With the clerk, on or before
the day of the first publication; and a notice, subscribed by
the plaintifffs attorney, and directed only to the defendant
or defendants to be thus served, substantially in the following form, the blanks being properly filled up, must be subjoined to, and published with the summons:

“ To : The foregoing summons is served upon

you, by publication, pursuant to an order of ”
(naming the judge and his ofncial title), “ dated the

.day of , 18 , and filed with the complaint. The
service will be complete, at the expiration of from

the first day of publication.”

§ 443. Where service is made without the State, the papers
specified in the last section must be previously filed; and a
notice must be served with the summons, in all respects like
the notice required by the last section, except that the words,
“without the State of New-York ”, must be substituted for
the words, “by publication”; and the words, “ day of your
receipt of this notice”, must be substituted for the words,
“ first day of publication”.

§ 444. Proof of the publication of the summons and
notice must be made by the afhdavit of the printer or
publisher, or his foreman or principal clerk. Proof of deposit in the post-office, or of delivery, of a paper required
to be deposited or delivered by the provisions of this article,
must be made by the affidavit of the person, who deposited
or delivered it.

§ 445. Where the summons is served, pursuant to an order
made as prescribed in this article, the defendant so served, or
his representative, on application and sufficient cause shown,
at any time before fmal judgment, must be allowed to defend the action; and, except in an action for divorce, the
defendant, or his representative, must, in like manner,

upon good cause shown, and upon just terms, be allowed
to defend, after linal judgment, at any time within one year
after service of written notice thereof; or, if such a notice has
not been served, within seven years after the liling of the
judgment-roll. If the defense is successful, and the judgment, or any part thereof, has been collected or otherwise
enforced, such restitution may thereupon be compelled, as
the court directs; but the title to property, sold, to a pur
chaser in good faith, pursuant to a direction contained

in the judgment, or by virtue of an execution issued upon
the same, shall not be affected thereby.

TITLE II.
Pa/rties to am. aotxion.

Anrrcnn 1. Parties generally.
2. Parties severally liable.

8. Parties prosecuting and defending as poor persons.
4. Infant plaintifffs and defendants.

ARTICLE FIRST.

Pmrms ennnnumx.

81:0. 446. Who may be joined as plaintiffs.
447. Id.; as defendants.
448. Parties united in interest, when to be joined; when one or more may

sue or defend for the whole.

449. Trustee of express trust, etc., may sue without person beneficially interested.

450. When married woman is a party.
451. When defendant or his name is unknown.
452. When court to decide controversy, or to order other parties to be brought

in.
458. Supplemental summons.

§ 446. All persons having an interest in the subject of

the action, and in obtaining the judgment demanded, may
be joined as plaintifffs, except as otherwise expressly prescribed in this act.

§ 447. Any person may be made a defendant, who has
or claims an interest in the controversy, adverse to the plaintifff, or who is a necessary party defendant, for the complete
determination or settlement of a question involved therein;
except as otherwise expressly prescribed in this act.

§ 448. Of the parties to the action, those who are united
in interest must be joined as plaintifffs or defendants, except
as otherwise expressly prescribed in this act. But if the consent of any one, who ought to be joined as a plaintifff, cannot
be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason therefore being stated in the complaint. And where the question
is one of a common or general interest of many persons; or
where the persons, who might be made parties, are very
numerous, and it may be impracticable to bring them all
before the court, one or more may sue or defend for the

benefit of all.

§ 449. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an
express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute,
may sue, without joining with him the person for whose
benefit the action is prosecuted. A person, with whom or

in whose name, a contract is made for the benefit of another,
is a trustee of an express trust, Within the meaning of this section.

§ 450. In an action or special proceeding, a married woman
appears, prosecutes, or defends, alone or joined with another,
as if she was single.

§ 451. Where the plaintifff is ignorant of the name or
lpart of the name of a defendant, he may designate that
- defendant, in the summons, and in any other process or proceeding in the action, by a fictitious name, or by as much of
his name as is known, adding a description, identifying the
person intended. Where the plaintifff demands judgment
against an unknown person, he may designate that person
as unknown, adding a description, tending to identify him.
In either case, the person intended is thereupon regarded as
a defendant in the action, and as sufiiciently described
therein, for all purposes, including service of the summons,
as prescribed in article second of the last title; and for
that purpose, an unknown person is deemed not to be a
resident of the State. When the name, or the remainder
of the name, or.the person, becomes known, an order must
be made by the court, upon such notice and such terms as
it prescribes, that the proceedings already taken be deemed
amended, by the insertion of the true name, in place of the

fictitious name or part of a name, or the designation as an
unknown person; and that all subsequent proceedings be
taken under the true name.

§ 452. The court may determine the controversy, as
between the parties before it, where it can do so without
prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their rights;
but where a complete determination of the controversy
cannot be had without the presence of other parties, the
court must direct them to be brought in. And where a
person, not a party to the action, has an interest in the subject thereof, or in real property, the title to which may in
any manner be affected by the judgment, and makes application to the court to be made a party, it must direct him
to be brought in by the proper amendment.

§ 453. Where the court directs a new defendant to be
brought in, and the order is not made upon his own application, a supplemental summons must be issued, directed
to him, and in the same form as an original summons; except
that, immediately after the direction, it must briefly recite
the occasion of issuing it, and that, in the body thereof, it
must require the defendant to answer the original or the
amended complaint, and the supplemental complaint, or
either of them, as the case requires. And each provision
of this chapter, relating to personal service, or a substitute
for personal service of an original summons, applies to such
a supplemental summons. 5

ARTICLE SECOND.

Pnrrms snvnznanu LIABLE.

81:0. 454. Persons liable for the same demand may be sued together.
455. Defendant so sued may apply for any relief.
M6. Proceedings in action against defendants severally liable.
457. Application of this article to defendants jointly liable.

§ 454. Two or more persons severally liable upon the
same written instrument, including the parties to a bill of

exchange or a promissory note, whether the action is
brought upon the instrument, or by a party thereto to recover against other parties liable over to him; or severally
liable for the same demand, and, without reckoning offsets or
counterclaims, in the same amount, although upon different
instruments; may, all or any of them, be included as defendants in the same action, at the option of the plaintifff.

§ 455. The joinder of a person, as defendant in an action,
with another person, as prescribed in the last section, does

not affect his right to any order or relief, to which he would

have been entitled, if he had been separately sued in the
action.

§ 456. Where a summons, issued against two or more defendants, alleged to be severally liable, is served upon some,
but not upon all of them, the plaintifff may proceed against
those upon whom it is served, as if they were the only defendants named therein. Where it is served upon all of them, the
plaintifff may take judgment against one or more of them,
where he would be entitled to judgment, if the action was
against him or them alone. Where judgment is so taken,
the clerk must, upon the plaintifff’s application, enter an order,
directing that the action be severed, and that the plaintifff
may proceed against the other defendants.’ In any subsequent proceeding, the plaintifff may use, together with a
certified copy of such an order, a copy of a paper constituting a part of the judgment-roll, with like effect as if it
was the original.

§ 457. The last three sections do not affect a defense or
other objection of a defendant, growing out of the failure to join in the action two or more persons jointly liable;
and, as regards the other parties to the action, persons jointly

liable are regarded as one party, for every purpose contemplated by those sections.

ARTICLE THIRD.

Purrms PROSECUTING mo nnmnnme as POOR Pnnsons.

458. Who may petition for leave to prosecute as a poor person.

459. Contents of petition.

460. When and how leave granted.

461. Not liable for costs and fees.

462. When leave may be annulled.

463. When defendant may petition to defend as a poor person.
464. Contents of petition.

465. Proceedings thereon.

466. Appeal, when party prosecutes or defends as a poor person.
467. Costs in favor of petitioner.

§ 458. A poor person, not being of ability to sue, who
alleges that he has a cause of action against another person,
may apply, by petition, to the court in which the action is
pending, or in Which it is intended to be brought, for leave
to prosecute as a poor person, and to have an attorney and
counsel assigned to conduct his action.

§ 459. The petition must state: .

1. The nature of the action brought, or intended to be
brought. _

2. That the applicant is not Worth one hundred dollars,
besides the Wearing apparel and furniture, necessary for
himself and his family, and the subject-matter of the
action. I

It must be verified by the applicant’s affidavit, and supported by a certificate of a counsellor at law, to the effect
that he has examined the case, and is of opinion that the
applicant has a good cause of action.

§ 460. The court to which the petition is presented, if
satisfied of the truth of the facts alleged, and that the applicant has a good cause of action, may, by order, admit him to
prosecute as a poor person, and assign to him an attorney
and counsel to prosecute his action, who must act therein
Without compensation.

§ 461. A person so admitted, may prosecute his action,

‘Without paying fees to any officer; and he shall not be prevented from prosecuting the same, by reason of his being
liable for the costs of a former action, brought by him
against the same defendant. If judgment is rendered
against him, or his complaint is dismissed, costs shall not
be awarded against him.

§ 462. If the person so admitted is guilty of improper
conduct in the prosecution of his action, or of willful or
unnecessary delay, the court may, in its discretion, annul
the order admitting him to prosecute as a poor person; and
he shall thereafter be deprived of all the privileges con
ferred thereby.

§ 463. A defendant in an action involving his right, title,
or interest, in or to real or personal property, may petition
the court, in which the action is pending, for leave to defend
the action as a poor person, and to have an attorney and
counsel assigned to conduct his defense.

§ 464. The petition must ‘contain the same matters, respecting the ability of the petitioner, required to be contained
in a petition for leave to prosecute as a poor person; and
it must be supported by a similar certificate, relating to the
defense. A

§ 465. The provisions of this article, relating to the order,
to be made upon an application for leave to prosecute as a
poor person, and the proceedings subsequent thereto, apply
to the order and subsequent proceedings, upon an application for leave to defend as a poor person.

§ 466. An order, made as prescribed in this article, does
not authorize the petitioner to take or maintain an appeal,
as a poor person; but Where an appeal is taken by the
adverse party, the order is applicable, in favor of the petitioner, as respondent in the appeal.

§ 467. Where costs are awarded in favor of a person, who
has been admitted to prosecute or defend as a poor person,
as prescribed in this article, they must be paid over to his
attorney, when collected from the adverse party, and distributed among the attorney and counsel assigned to the
poor person, as the court directs.

ARTICLE FOURTH.

Immrr Punrrnms arm Dnmimurrs.

81:0. 468. Right of infant to bring action.

469. Guardian for infant plaintifff must be appointed.

470. Application therefore.

471. Application for appointment of guardian for infant defendant.
472. Guardian, how appointed. Clerk, when to act.

478. Guardian for infant defendant in certain real actions.

474. Guardian not to receive property until security given.

475. Security. .

476. Last two sections not to apply to general guardian.

477. Liability of defendant's guardian for costs.

§ 468. Where an infant has a right of action, he is entitled to maintain an action thereon; and the same shall not
be deferred or delayed, on account of his infancy.

§ 469. Before a summons is issued, in the name of an
infant plaintifff, a competent and responsible person must
be appointed to appear as his guardian for the purpose of
the action, who shall be responsible for the costs thereof.

§ 470. The guardian must be appointed upon the application of the infant, if he is of the age of fourteen years, or
upwards; or, if he is under that age, upon the application
of his general or testamentary guardian, if he has one, or of
a relative or friend. If the application is made by a rela
tive or friend, notice thereof must be given to his general
or testamentary guardian, if he has one; or, if he has none,
to the person with whom the infant resides.

§ 471. An infant defendant must also appear by guardian,
who must be a. competent and responsible person, appointed
upon the application of the infant, if he is of the age of
fourteen years, or upwards, and applies within twenty days
after service of the summons; or, if he is under that age, or
neglects so to apply, upon the application of any other
party to the action, or of a relative or friend of the infant.
Where the application is made by a person, other than the
infant, notice thereof must be given to his general or testa
mentary guardian, if he has one within the State; or, if he
has none, to the infant himself, if he is of the age of fourteen years, or upwards, and within the State; or, if he is
under that age, and within the State, to the person with
whom he resides.

§ 472. The court in which the action is brought, or a
judge thereof, or, if the action is brought in the supreme
court, the county judge of the county where the action is
triable, may appoint a guardian ad litem for an infant,
either plaintifff or defendant, as prescribed in this article.
The clerk mustact in that capacity, where the court or the
judge appoints him. No person, other than the clerk, shall
be appointed such a guardian, unless his written consent,
duly acknowledged, is produced to the court or judge making
the appointment.

§ 473. In an action for the partition of real property, 01
for the foreclosure of a mortgage, where an infant defendant resides without the State, or is temporarily absent
therefrom, the court may, in its discretion, make an order
designating a person to be his guardian ad litem, unless he,
or some one in his behalf, procures such a guardian to be
appointed, as prescribed in the last two sections, within a
specified time after service of a copy of the order. The
court must give special directions in the order, respecting
the service thereof, which may be upon the infant.

§ 474. Except in a case where it is otherwise specially
prescribed by law, a guardian, appointed for an infant, as
prescribed in this article, shall not be permitted to receive
money or property of the infant, other than costs and
expenses allowed to the guardian by the court, until he has
given sufficient security, approved by a judge of the
court, or a county judge, to account for and apply the same,
under the direction of the court.

§ 475. The security must be a bond to the infant, in such
penalty as the judge directs, not less than twice the sum,
or the value of the property, to be received, executed by
the guardian and at least two sureties, approved by the
judge, and filed in the office of the clerk. The infant, or
any other party to the action, may afterwards apply for an
order, directing a new bond to be given, with an increased
penalty; or the court may so direct, of its own motion.

§ 476. The last two sections do not apply to the general
guardian of the infant, who has been appointed his guardian
ad litem as prescribed in this article; but the court may, at
any time, require the general guardian to give additional
security for the faithful discharge of his trust, before
receiving money or property of the infant, under a judgment or order in the action.

§ 477. A person appointed guardian, as prescribed in this article, for an infant defendant in an action, is not liable for
the costs of the action, unless specially charged therewith
by the order of the court, for personal misconduct.

CHAPTER VI.

PLEADINGS IN COURTS OF RECORD, INCLUDING
COUNTERCLAIMS.

TITLE I. -—THE CONSECUTIVE rnnmmes IN AN AOPION.

TITLE II. — Pnovrsroxs GENERALLY APPLICABLE ro Pmunmes.

TITLE I.
The consec-um’/ve pleadings m an act/ion.

ARTICLE 1. Complaint.
2. Demurrer.
8. Answer.

4. Reply.
ARTICLE FIRST.

COIIPLAINT.

478. First pleading to be complaint.

479. Copy complaint, when to be served.

480. Consequence of failure.

481. Complaint; what to contain.

482. When interlocutory and dual judgment may he demanded.

488. Causes of action to be separately stated.

484. What causes of action may be joined in the same complaint.

485. When cause of action deemed single.

486. When alternative legal or equitable judgment may he demanded.

§ 478. The first pleading, on the part of the p1aintiR, is

t the complaint.

§ 479. If a copy of the complaint is not delivered to a
defendant, at the time of the delivery of a copy of the summons to him, either within or without the State, his attorney may, at any time before the plaintifff is entitled to apply
for judgment against him, for want of an answer, serve upon
the plaintiffs attorney a written demand of a copy of the
complaint, which must be served within twenty days thereafter. The_ demand may be incorporated into the notice of
appearance. But where the same attorney appears for two
or more defendants, only one copy of the complaint need be
served upon him; and if an attorney appears for a defendant,
after service of a copy of the complaint on him as attorney
for another defendant, the last defendant must answer the
complaint, within twenty days after his appearance.

§ 480. If the plaintiE’s attorney fails to serve a copy of
the complaint, as prescribed in the last section, the defendant may apply to the court for a dismissal of the complaint.

§ 481. The complaint must contain:

1. The title of the action, specifying the name of the
court in which it is brought; if it is brought in the supreme
court, the name of the county, which the plaintifff designates as the place of trial; and the names of all the parties
to the action, plaintifff and defendant.

2. A plain and concise statement of the facts, constituting
each cause of action, without unnecessary repetition.

3. A demand of the judgment to which the plaintifff supposes himself entitled.

§ 482. In an action triable by the court, without a jury,
the plaintifff may, in a proper case, demand an interlocutory
judgment, and also a final judgment, distinguishing them
clearly. In an action triable by a jury, he must demand a
final judgment only ; and, if judgment for a sum of money
only is demanded, the amount thereof must be stated.

§ 483. Where the complaint sets forth two or more causes
of action, the statement of the facts constituting each cause
of action must be separate and numbered.

§ 484. The plaintifff may unite, in the same complaint,
two or more causes of action, whether they are such as

were formerly denominated legal or equitable, or both,
where they are brought to recover as follows :

1. Upon contract, express or implied.

2. For personal injuries, except libel, slander, criminal
conversation, or seduction.

3. For libel or slander.

4. For injuries to real property.

5. Real property, in ejectment, with or without damages
for the withholding thereof.

6. For injuries to personal property.

7. Chattels, with or without damages for the taking or
detention thereof.

8. Upon claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract,
or by operation of law.

9. Upon claims arising out of the same transaction, or
transactions connected with the same subject of action, and
not included within one of the foregoing subdivisions of
this section.

But it must appear, upon the face of the complaint, that
all the causes of action, so united, belong to one of the foregoing subdivisions of this section; that they are consistent with
each other; and, except as otherwise prescribed by law, that
they affect all the parties to the action: it must not appear,
upon the face of the complaint, that they require different
places of trial: and the judgment demanded thereupon
must be such, that issues of fact, arising upon the allegations of the complaint, will not require different modes of

trial.

§ 485. Where all the relief, for which the complaint
demands judgment, might have been awarded, in one action,
by the court of chancery, on the 31st day of December,
1846, the cause of action is deemed single; although separate actions might be maintained, upon the facts set forth
in the complaint, in each of which a portion of the same
relief might be awarded.

§ 486. Where a plaintifff sets forth, in his complaint,
facts, showing that he has a good cause of action, but the
character of the judgment to which he is entitled, with
respect to its being of the kind formerly denominated legal
or equitable, depends upon facts, which, he alleges, by
reason of his imperfect knowledge thereof, he cannot set
forth, he may state those facts alternatively, and thereupon
demand each kind of judgment, in the alternative. In such
a case, the cause of action is deemed single; the complaint
must always be verified; and the statement of the facts,
upon which the character of the judgment thus depends,
must show, that the plaintifff is entitled to one of the alternative judgments: but the plaintifffs want of knowledge,
with respect to those facts, is not the subject of an issue.

ARTICLE SECOND.

Dmmnmm.

487. Defendant must demur or answer.
488. When he may demur.
489. The last section qualified.
490. Demurrer to complaint must specify grounds of objection.
491. Rule, if too many grounds of objection are specided.
492. Demurrer to all or part of the complaint; demurrer to part, and answer
to part.
498. Defendant may demur to reply. ,
494. When plaintifff may demur to answer.
495. Demurrer to counterclaim, when defendant demands an affirmative

judgment.
496. Demurrer to counterclaim must specify grounds of objection.
497. Amendments in certain cases after decision of demurrer.
498. When objection may be taken by answer.
499. Objection; when deemed waived.

§ 487. The only pleading, on the part of the defendant,
is either a demurrer or an answer.

§ 488. The defendant may demur to the complaint, where
one or more of the following objections thereto appear
upon the face thereof:

1. That the court has not jurisdiction of the person of
the defendant.

2. That the court has not jurisdiction of the subject of
the action.

3. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue.

4. That there is another action pending between the
same parties, for the same cause.

5. That there is a misjoinder of parties plaintifff.

6. That there is a defect of parties, pl aintiif or defendant.

7. That causes of action have been improperly united.

8. That the complaint does not state facts sumcient to
constitute a cause of action.

9. That the facts stated in the complaint do not entitle
the plaintifff to the judgment demanded.

10. That the plaintifff demands judgment for two or more
inconsistent kinds of relief.

§ 489. But the last section does not allow a demurrer,
under subdivision ninth thereof, where it appears, from the
complaint, that the plaintifff is entitled to a judgment for a
greater or less sum of money than he has stated, or for
other greater or less relief, of the same general character
as that which he has demanded; or, under subdivision tenth
thereof, where he is allowed, by section 486 of this act, to
demand judgment in the alternative.

§ 490. The demurrer must distinctly specify the objections to the complaint; otherwise it may be disregarded.
An objection, taken under subdivision first, second, fourth
or eighth of the last section but one, may be stated in
the language of the subdivision; an objection, taken under
either of the other subdivisions, must point out specifically
the particular defect relied upon, and show how the case
comes within the subdivision.

§ 491. If the demurrer specifies objections, arising under
two or more subdivisions of section 488 of this act, and the
court determines that it was well taken, under one or more
of the subdivisions thus specified, but not under the others,

the judgment upon the demurrer must be for the defendant;
but neither party is entitled to the costs of the demurrer.

§ 492. The defendant may demur to the whole complaint, or to one or more separate causes of action, stated
therein. In the latter case, he may answer the causes of:

action not demurred to.

§ 493. The defendant may also demur to the reply, or to
a separate traverse to, or avoidance of, a defense or counter-‘

claim, contained in the reply, on the ground that it is insuf-t

ticient in law, upon the face thereof.

§ 494. The plaintifff may demur to a counterclaim or a
defense consisting of new matter, contained in the answer,
on the ground that it is insufficient in law, upon the face

thereof.

§ 495. The plaintifff may also demur to a counterclaim:
upon which the defendant demands an affirmative judgment,

where one or more of the following objections thereto,

appear on the face of the counterclaim:

1. That the court has not jurisdiction of the subject:

thereof.
2. That the defendant has not legal capacity to recover

upon the same.
3. That there is another action pending between the

same parties, for the same cause.

4. That the counterclaim is not of the character specified
in section 501 of this act.

5. That the counterclaim does not state facts sufHcient to
constitute a cause of action.

6. That the facts stated in the counterclaim do not entitle the defendant to the judgment demanded.

7. That the defendant demands judgment for two or
more inconsistent kinds of relief.

§ 496. A demurrer, taken under the last section, must distinctly specify the objections to the counterclaim; otherwise
it may be disregarded. The mode of specifying the objections is the same, as where a demurrer is taken to a complaint ; and each provision of this chapter, relating to or
affecting a demurrer, based upon an objection to the demand
of judgment contained in a complaint, applies to a demurrer
taken under subdivision sixth or seventh of the last section.

§ 497. Upon the decision of a demurrer, either at a general or special term, the court may, in its discretion, allow

' the party in fault to plead anew or amend, upon such terms

as are just. If a demurrer to a complaint is allowed,
because two or more causes of action have been improperly
united, the court may, in its discretion, and upon such
terms as are just, direct that the action be divided into as
many actions, as are necessary for the proper determination
of the causes of action therein stated.

§ 498. The defendant may set forth, in his answer, facts,
which, if they appeared upon the face of the complaint,
would render it, or a separate cause of action contained
therein, subject to a demurrer, as prescribed in this article;
and thereupon he may have the same advantage thereof,
as if the objection was taken by demurrer. '

§ 499. If such an objection is not taken, either by demurrer or answer, the defendant is deemed to have waived it;
except the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, or
the objection that the complaint does not state facts suf
ficient to constitute a cause of action.

ARTICLE THIRD.

Arzswnn.

500. Answer; what to contain.

501. Counterclalm defined.
502. Rules respecting the allowance of counterclaims.
503. Judgment, when demand and counterclaim are equal or unequal.

504. Id.; for affirmative relief.

505. Counterclaim, when defendant is sued in a representative capacity.
506. Id.; when plaiutii is an executor or administrator.
507. Defendant may interpose several defenses or counterclaims; rules
relating thereto.
508. Partial defenses.

509. When defendant to demand atiirmatlve judgment.

510. Effect of improper demand of afhrmative judgment.
511. When pleadings admit part of plaintifff's claim to be just, action may be
severed, etc. '
512. Judgment, where counterclaim only is interposed for less than plaintifff's claim.
513. Dilatory defenses to be verified.

§ 500. Where the defendant controverts all the allegations of the complaint, his answer must contain a general
denial of each and every allegation thereof, or an allegation
that he has not sufiicient knowledge or information to form

a belief, with respect to any allegation contained therein.
Where he controverts a portion of the allegations thereof,

his answer must contain, either a specific denial of each
allegation controverted, or an allegation that he has not
sufficient knowledge or information, to form a belief, with
respect to any of the matters stated therein. The answer
may also. set forth new matter, constituting one or more
defenses or counterclaims, in ordinary and concise language,
without repetition.

§ 501. The counterclaim, specified in the last section,
mustbe one of the following causes of action against the
plaintifff, or, in a proper case, against the person whom he
represents, and in favor of the defendant, or of one or more
defendants, between whom and the plaintifff a separate judgment may be had in the action:

1. A cause of action, arising out of the contract or transaction, set forth in the complaint as the foundation of the
plaintifff ’s claim, or connected with the subject of the

action.
2. In an action on contract, any other cause of action on

contract, existing at the commencement of the action.

§ 502. But the counterclaim, specified in subdivision
second of the last section, is subject to the following rules:

1. If the action is founded upon a contract, which has
been assigned by the party thereto, other than a negotiable
promissory note or bill of exchange, a demand, existing
against the party thereto, or an assignee of the contract, at
the time of the assignment thereof, and belonging to the
defendant, in good faith, before notice of the assignment,
must be allowed as a counterclaim, to the, amount of the
plaintifff’s demand, if it might have been so allowed
against the party, or the assignee, while the contract
belonged to him.

2. If the action is upon a negotiable promissory note or
bill of exchange, which has been assigned to the plaintifff
after it became due, a demand, existing against a person
who assigned or transferred it, after it became due, must
be allowed as a counterclaim, to the amount of the plaintifff ’s demand, if it might have been so allowed against the
assignor, while the note or bill belonged to him.

3. If the plaintifff is a trustee for another, or if the
action is in the name of a plaintifff, who has no actual interest in the contract upon which it is founded, a demand
against the plaintifff shall not be allowed as a counterclaim;
but so much of a demand existing against the person whom
he represents, or for whose benefit the action is brought, as
will satisfy the plaintifffs demand, must, except in a case
specified in the next subdivision, be allowed as a counterclaim, if it might have been so allowed in an action brought
by the person beneficially interested.

4. If the action is brought by a receiver, or by the
trustee of an insolvent or imprisoned debtor, a counterclaim shall not be allowed, except where it is specially prescribed by law, that the defendant may set off a demand in
his favor, against a demand in favor of the person or corporation, represented by the plaintifff.

§ 503. Where a counterclaim is established, which equals
the plaintifff ’s demand, the judgment must be in favor of

the defendant. Where it is less than the plaintifffs demand, ,
the plaintifff must have judgment for the residue only. 1
Where it exceeds -the plaintifff’s demand, the defendant 1
must have judgment for the excess, or so much thereof as
is due from the plaintifff. Where part of the excess is not
due from the plaintifff, the judgment does not prejudice the
defendant’s right to recover, from another person, so much
thereof as the judgment does not cancel. In a case specified in this section, the amount of the counterclaim established must be stated in the judgment.

§ 504. In a case not specified in the last section, Where a
counterclaim is established, Which entitles the defendant,
to an affirmative judgment, demanded in the answer, I
judgment must be rendered for the defendant accordingly.

§ 505. In an action against an executor or an administrator, or other person sued in a representative capacity,
the defendant may set forth, as a counterclaim, a demand
belonging to the decedent, or other person Whom he represents, Where the person so represented would have been
entitled to set forth the same, in an action against him.

§ 506. In an action brought by an executor or administrator, in his representative capacity, a demand against the
decedent, belonging to the defendant at the time of his death,
may be set forth by the defendant as a counterclaim, as if
the action had been brought by the decedent in his life.
time ; and, if a balance is found to be due to the defendant,
judgment must be rendered therefore against the plaintiE,
in his representative capacity. Execution can be issued
upon such a judgment, only in a case Where it could be
issued upon a judgment, in an action against the executor
or administrator.

§ 507. A defendant may set forth, in his answer, as
many defenses or counterclaims, or both, as he has, Whether

they are such as were formerly denominated legal or equitable; but they must not be inconsistent with each other.
Each defense or counterclaim must be separately stated,
and numbered. Unless it is interposed as an answer to the
entire complaint, it must distinctly refer to the cause of
action which it is intended to answer.

§ 508. A partial defense may be set forth, as prescribed
in the last section; but it must be expressly stated to be a
partial defense to the entire complaint, or to one or more
separate causes of action, therein set forth. Upon a demurrer thereto, the question is, whether it is sufficient for that
purpose. This section does not apply to matters tending
only to mitigate or reduce damages, in an action to recover
damages for the breach of a promise to marry, or for a
personal injury, or an injury to property.

§ 509. Where the defendant deems himself entitled to
an affirmative judgment against the plaintifff, by reason of
a counterclaim interposed by him, he must distinctly demand
the judgment in his answer; and he may demand judgment
in the alternative, in a case and subject to the regulations,
prescribed in this title, with respect to a like demand in the
complaint.

§ 510. If, upon a demurrer to a counterclaim, upon which

the defendant demands an afiirmative judgment, the court
determines, that the matter of the counterclaim is sufficient

to defeat the cause of action, but not to entitle the defendant to an affirmative judgment, the demurrer must be sustained; but the court may, in its discretion, and upon such
terms as it deems just, permit the demand for an affirmative
judgment to be stricken out.

§ 511. Where a part of the plaintifff’s claim, which may be
severed from the remainder, is admitted upon the pleadings,
the court, upon the plaintiffl:"s motion, must order that the

action be severed; that a judgment be entered for the plaintifff for the part so admitted; and, if the plaintifff so elects,
that the action be continued, with like effect, as to the
subsequent proceedings, as if it had been originally brought
for the remainder of the claim. The order must prescribe
the time and manner of the plaintifffs election. If the
plaintifff elects to continue the action, his right to costs upon
the judgment is the same, as if it was taken in an action
brought only for that part of the claim; but the defendant
is not entitled to costs in any event. If the plaintifff does
not elect to continue the action, costs must be awarded, as
upon final judgment in any other case.

§ 512. In an action upon contract, where the complaint
demands judgment for a sum of money only, if the defendant, by his answer, does not deny the plaintifff’s claim, but
sets up a counterclaim amounting to less than the plaintifffs
claim, the plaintifff, upon filing with the clerk an admission
of the counterclaim, may take judgment for the excess, as
upon a default for want of an answer. The admission
must be made a part of the judgment-roll.

§ 513. A defense, which does not involve the merits of
the action, shall not be pleaded, unless it is verified as
prescribed in title second of this chapter.

ARTICLE FOURTH.

REPLY.

514. Reply; what to contain.
515. Judgment upon failure to reply.
516. Cases where the court may require a reply. .
517. Plaintiff may set forth several avoidances in reply.

§ 514. Where the answer contains a counterclaim, the
plaintifff, if he does not demur, may reply to the counterclaim. Where he controverts all the allegations of the
counterclaim, the reply must contain a general denial of
each and every allegation thereof, or an allegation that he

has not suiiicient knowledge or information, to form a belief,

with respect to any allegation contained therein. ‘ Where he
controverts a portion of the allegations, his reply must contain, either a specific denial of each allegation controverted
by him, or an allegation that he has not suiiicient knowledge
or information, to form a belief, with respect to any of the
matters stated therein. The reply may also set forth, in
ordinary and concise language, without repetition, new
matter, not inconsistent with the complaint, constituting a
defense to the counterclaim.

§ 515. If the plaintifff fails to reply or demur to the
counterclaim, the defendant may apply, upon notice, for
judgment thereupon; and,'if the case requires it, a reference
may be ordered, or a writ of inquiry may be issued, as prescribed in chapter eleventh of this act, where the plaintifff
applies for judgment.

§ 516. Where an answer contains new matter, constituting a defense by way of avoidance, the court may, in its

discretion, on the defendant’s application, direct the plaintifff to reply to the new matter. In that case, the reply, and
the proceedings upon failure to reply, are subject to the
same rules as in the case of a counterclaim.

§ 517. A reply may contain two or more distinct avoidances of the same defense or counterclaim; but they must
be separately stated and numbered, and must not be inconsistent with each other.

TITLE II.
Provisions generally applicable to pleadings.

518. Application and efect of this chapter.
519. Pleadings to be liberally construed.
520. Pleadings to be subscribed; within what time to be served.
521. When defendant to serve copy answer on co-defendant.
522. Allegatlon not denied; when to be deemed true.

SIG. 523. When pleading must be verified; and when verification may be omitted.

524. Form and construction of certain allegations and denials in verified
pleading.

525. Verihcation; how and by whom made.
526. Form of affidavit of veriiication.
527. When verification may be confined to a counterclaim.
528. Remedy for defective verification, or want of verification.
529. When defendant not excused from verifying answer to charge of fraud.
530. Private statute; how pleaded.
531. Account; how pleaded. Bill of particulars.
532. Judgments; how pleaded. .
53. Conditions precedent; how pleaded.
584. Instrument for payment of money ; how pleaded.
535. Pleadings in libel and slander.
536. Pleading mitigating circumstances, in action for a wrong.
537. Frivolous pleadings ; how disposed of.
588. Sham defenses to bestricken out.

539. Material variances; how provided for.
540. Immaterial variances; how provided for.
541. What to be deemed a failure of proof.

542. Amendments of course.‘

543. Amended pleading to be served; answer thereto.
544. Supplemental pleadings.
W. When a pleading may be excepted to; mode and effect of excepting.

546. Proceedings after exception.
547. Detefmination upon the exception; costs; when the attorney may be

ordered to pay costs.

§ 518. This chapter applies to the pleadings in a civil
action in a court of record; and prescribes the form thereof,
and the rules by which the sufficiency thereof is determined,
except where special provision is otherwise made by law.

§ 519. The allegations of a pleading must be liberally
construed, with a view to substantial justice between the
parties.

§ 520. A pleading must be subscribed by the attorney
for the party. A copy of each pleading, subsequent to the
complaint, must be served on the attorney for the adverse
party, within twenty days after service of a copy of the
preceding pleading.

§ 521. Where the judgment may determine the ultimate
rights of two or more defendants, as between themselves, a
defendant, who requires such a determination, must demand

it in his answer, and must, at least ten days before the trial,
serve a copy of his answer upon the attorney for each of
the defendants, to be affected by the determination. The
controversy between the defendants shall not delay a judgment, to which the plaintifff is entitled ; unless the court
otherwise directs.

§ 522. Each material ‘allegation of the complaint, not
controverted by the answer, and each material allegation of
new matter in the answer, not controverted by the reply,
where a reply is required, must, for the purposes of the
action, be taken as true. But an allegation of new matter
in the answer, to which a reply is not required, or of new
matter in a reply, is to be deemed controverted by the
adverse party, by traverse or avoidance, as the case requires.

§ 523. Where a pleading is verified, each subsequent
pleading, except a demurrer, or the general answer of an
infant by his guardian ad litem, must also be verified. But
the verification may be omitted, in a case where it is not
otherwise specially prescribed by law, where the party
pleading would be privileged from testifying, asxa witness,
concerning an allegation or denial contained in the pleading. A pleading cannot be used, in a criminal prohecution
against the party, as proof of a ‘fact admitted or alleged

therein.   
§ 524. The allegations or denials in a verified pleading

must, in form, be stated to be made by the party pleading.
Unless they are therein stated to be made upon the infor.

mation and belief of the party, they must be regarded, for

all purposes, including a criminal prosecution, as having
been made upon the knowledge of the person verifying the
pleading. An allegation that the party has not sufiicient
knowledge or information, to form a belief, with respect to
a matter, must, for the same purposes, be regarded as the
allegation of the person verifying the pleading.

§ 525. The verification must be made by the affidavit of
the party, or, if there are two or more parties united in
interest, and pleading together, by at least one of them,
who is acquainted with the facts, except as follows:

1. Where the party is a domestic corporation, the verification must be made by an officer thereof.

2. Where the people of the State are, or a public officer,
in their behalf, is the party, the verification may be made by
any person acquainted with the facts.

3. Where the party is a foreign corporation; or where
the party is not Within the county where the attorney resides, and capable of making the affidavit; or, if there are
two or more parties united in interest,~and pleading together,
where neither of them, acquainted with the facts, is within
that county, and capable of making the affidavit; or where

the action or defense is founded upon a written instrument
for the payment of money only, which is in the possession

of the agent or the attorney; or where all the material allegations of the pleading are Within the personal knowledge
of the agent or the attorney; in either case, the verification
may be made by the agent of or the attorney for the party.

§ 526. The affidavit of verification must be to the effect,
that the pleading is true to the knowledge of the deponent,
except as to the matters therein stated to be alleged on
information and belief, and that as to those matters he
believes it to be true. Where it is made by a person, other
than the party, he must set forth, in the affidavit, the grounds
of his belief, as to all matters not stated upon his knowledge, and the reason why it is not made by the party.

§ 527. Where the complaint is not verified, and the

answer sets up a counterclaim, and also a defense by way;
of denial or avoidance, the affidavit of verification may be;
made to refer exclusively to the counterclaim. In that case, ”

the last three sections are applicable to the affidavit and the
counterclaim, as if the latter was a separate pleading.

§ 528. The remedy for a defective verification of a pleading is to treat the same as an unverified pleading. Where

the copy of a pleading is served without a copy of a sufiicient verification, in a case where the adverse party is
entitled to a verified pleading, he may treat it as a nullity,
provided he gives notice, with due diligence, to the attorney of the adverse party, that he elects so to do.

§ 529. A defendant is not excused from verifying his
answer to a complaint, charging him with having confessed

»or suffered a judgment, or executed a conveyance, assignment, or other instrument, or transferred or delivered money,
or personal property, with intent to hinder, delay, or defraud
his creditors; or with being a party or privy to such a
transaction by another person, with like intent towards the
creditors of that person ; or with any fraud whatever, affecting a right or the property of another.

§ 530. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived
therefrom, it is suiiicient to designate the statute by its title and the day of its passage, or in some other manner
with convenient certainty, without setting forth any of the
contents thereof.

§ 531. It is not necessary for a party to set forth, in a
pleading, the items of an account therein alleged; but in that
case, he must deliver to the adverse party, within ten days
after a written demand thereof, a copy of the account,
which, if the pleading is verified, must be verified by his
afhdavit, to the effect, that he believes it to be true; or,
if the facts are within the personal knowledge of the
agent or attorney for the party. or the party is not within
the county where the attorney resides, or capable of making
the affidavit, by the aiiidavit of the agent or attorney. If
he fails so to do, he is precluded from giving evidence of
the account. The court, or a judge authorized to make an
order in the action, may direct the party to deliver a further

account, -where the one delivered is defective. The court

may, in any case, direct a bill of the particulars of the claim
of either party to be delivered to the adverse party.

§ 532. In pleading a judgment, or other determination, of i

a court or officer of special jurisdiction, it is not necessary
to state the facts conferring jurisdiction; but the judgment or
determination may be stated to have been duly given or
made. If that allegation is controverted, the party pleading must, on the trial, establish the facts conferring jurisdiction

§ 533. In pleading the performance of a condition precedent in a contract, it is not necessary to state the facts constituting performance ; but the party may state, generally,
that he, or the person Whom he represents, duly performed
all the conditions on his part. If that allegation is controverted, he must, on the trial, establish performance.

§ 534. Where a cause of action, defense, or counterclaim,
is founded upon an instrument for the payment of money
only, the party may set forth a copy of the instrument, and
state that there is due to him thereon, from the adverse
party, a specified sum, which he claims. Such an allegation
is equivalent to setting forth the instrument, according to
its legal effect.

§ 535. It is not necessary, in an action for libel or slander,
to state, in the complaint, an extrinsic fact, for the purpose
of showing the application to the plaintifff, of the defamatory matter; but the plaintifff may state, generally, that it
was published or spoken concerning him; and, if that allegation is controverted, the plaintifff must establish it on the
trial. In such an action, the defendant may prove mitigating circumstances, notwithstanding that he has pleaded or
attempted to prove a justification.

§ 536. In an action to recover damages for the breach of
a promise to marry, or for a personal injury, or an injury
to property, the defendant may prove, at the trial, facts, not
amounting to a total or partial defense, tending to mitigate
or otherwise reduce the plaintiE’s damages, if they are
separately set forth in an answer, containing a defense to
the entire cause of action; but not otherwise. A defendant, in default for want of an answer, may, upon a reference
or inquiry to ascertain the amount of the plaintifffs damages, prove facts of that description.

§ 537. A party, who has demurred to a pleading, or to a

“ separate cause of action, counterclaim, or defense consisting of

new matter, may, before taking any other proceeding thereupon, serve upon the attorney for the adverse party, a notice
of at least five days, that the demurrer will be brought to
trial, upon the ground of the frivolousness of the pleading
or part of the pleading demurred to, before a judge of the
court, either in court.or out of court. A demurrer may be
noticed for trial in like manner, upon the ground of the
frivolousness of the demurrer. If the judge determines that
the pleading or part of the pleading demurred to, or the
demurrer, as the case requires, is frivolous, judgment must
be given upon the demurrer, as if the trial had taken place
at a term of the court. If the judge determines that it is
not frivolous, an appeal cannot be taken from his decision;
and the issue of law, arising upon the demurrer, must be
tried, upon full notice, at the proper term. Upon an appeal
from a judgment, rendered upon a determination that the
pleading, or part of the pleading, demurred to, or the
demurrer, is frivolous, the question is, whether the demurrer
was well taken.

§ 538. A sham answer or a sham defense may be stricken
out by the court, upon motion, and upon such terms as the
court deems just.

§ 539. A variance, between an allegation in a pleading
and the proof, is not material, unless it has actually misled

the adverse party, to his prejudice, in maintaining his
action or defense, upon the merits. If a party insists that
he has been misled, that fact, and the particulars in which
he has been misled, must be proved to the satisfaction of
the court. Thereupon the court may, in its discretion,
order the pleading to be amended, upon such terms as it
deems just. 

§ 540. Where the variance is not material, as prescribed

in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found
according to the evidence, or may order an immediate
amendment, without costs.

§ 541. Where, however, the allegation to which the proof
is directed, is unproved, not in some particular or particulars
only, but in its entire scope and meaning, it is not a case
of variance, within the last two sections, but a failure of
proof.

§ 542. Within twenty days after a pleading, or the answer or demurrer thereto, is served, or at any time before the
period for answering it expires, the pleading may be once
amended by the party, of course, without costs, and without prejudice to the proceedings already had. But if it is
made to appear to the court, that the pleading was amended
for the purpose of delay, and that the adverse party will
thereby lose the benefit of a term, for which the cause is
or may be noticed, the amended pleading may be stricken
out, or the pleading may be restored to its original form,
and such terms imposed as the court deems just.

§ 543. Where a pleading is amended, as prescribed in the
last section, a copy thereof must be served upon the attorney for the adverse party. A failure to demur to, or answer
the amended pleading, within twenty days thereafter,
has the same effect as a like failure to demur to, or answer

the original pleading.

§ 544. Upon the application of either party, the court
may, and, in a proper case, must, upon such terms as are
just, permit him to make a supplemental complaint, answer
or reply, alleging material facts which occurred after his
former pleading, or of which he was ignorant when it was
made; including the judgment or decree of a competent
court, rendered after the commencement of the action,
determining the matters in controversy, or a part thereof’.
The party may apply for leave to make a supplemental
pleading, either in addition to, or in place of, the former
pleading. In the latter event, if the application is granted,
a provisional remedy, or other proceeding already taken in
the action, is not affected by the supplemental pleading;
but the right of the adverse party to have it vacated or set
aside, depends upon the case presented by the original and
supplemental pleadings.

§ 545. Within twenty days after service of a copy of
the complaint, or within ten days after service of a copy of
an answer or reply, the adverse party may serve, upon the
attorney subscribing the pleading, an exception thereto, on
the ground that it contains irrelevant, redundant or scandal.
ous matter; or a denial or allegation which is so indefinite
or uncertain, that the precise meaning or application thereof
is not apparent; or that the form or contents of the pleading fail, in any respect, for which another remedy is not
expressly prescribed by law, to comply with a requirement
of this act, or of the general rules of practice. The exception must specify distinctly each objection to the pleading;
and, also, if an objection relates to a particular allegation or
denial contained therein, the particular paragraph or other
portion deemed objectionable. The exception does not
operate as a stay of proceedings, or an extension of the time
to answer the pleading, or to take any other proceeding in
the action, unless an order therefore is procured; and the
exception cannot be heard, after judgment in the action.

§ 546. The party, whose pleading is excepted to, may,
within ten days after service of the exception, amend the
pleading, and serve a copy of the amended pleading upon
the attorney for the exceptant. If he does not so amend it,
in all the particulars objected to, he may, Within the same
time, serve a notice, of not less than five days, that the
exception Will be heard upon the objections, or the remaining objections, as the case requires, at a special term, or
before a judge of the court, at a place where a motion may
be made in the action. If he notices the exception for
hearing, the attorney for the exceptant may serve a notice
of hearing, of not less than two days, for the same time and
place. After ten days have elapsed, if the party, whose
pleading is excepted to, has not amended it in all the particulars specified in the exception, and has not noticed the
exception for hearing, the exceptant may serve a like notice
of hearing, of not less than five days. An exception may
be taken to a pleading amended under this section, in like
manner and With like effect, as to the pleading first excepted to; but a pleading once so amended cannot be again
amended, Without the special leave of the court.

§ 547. Upon the hearing of the exception, the court may
direct, that the pleading excepted to, or any portion thereof
pointed out by the exception, be stricken out, upon such
terms, and With such privilege of amendment, as are just.
Costs, not exceeding the amount taxable upon a demurrer,
may be directed to be paid by either party; or, where scandalous matter is stricken out, by the attorney whose name
is subscribed to the pleading.

CHAPTER VII.
GENERAL PROVISIONAL REMEDIES IN AN ACTION.

TITLE I.—-ARREST, PENDING THE ACTION, AND PROCEEDINGS
THEBEUPON.

TITLE lI.— INJUNOTION.

TITLE III.— ATPAOHMENT or PROPERTY.

TITLE IV.— OTHER PROVISIONAL nnunnms; GENERAL AND msOELLANEOUB PROVISIONS.

TITLE I.
Arrest, pending the action, and proceedings thereupon.

ARTICLE 1. Cases where an order of arrest may be granted, and persons liable to
arrest.
2. Granting, executing, and vacating or modifying the order of arrest.
3. Discharging the defendant upon bail or depqslt; justification of the
bail and disposition of the deposit.
4. Charging and discharging bail.

ARTICLE FIRST.

Cases wanna AN Oannn or Annnsr nu BE unwrap, AND Pmnsons LIABLE
TO ARREST.

548. No person to be arrested in civil proceedings, without an express statutory provision.

549. When the right to arrest depends upon the nature of the action.
550. When the right to arrest depends partly upon extrinsic facts.
551. Order, when and where granted ; when of right, and when discretionary.
552. Foreign judgment not to affect right to arrest.
553. Woman not to be arrested, except, etc.
554. Idiot, lunatic, or infant under fourteen, not to be arrested. Discharge.
555. Person sued in a representative capacity, not to be arrested.

§ 548. A person shall not be arrested, in a civil action
or special proceeding, brought, either in a court of the
State, or before an officer, whose jurisdiction to entertain
the same is derived from the laws of the State; or upon a

process or order, founded upon a judgment, order, or other
determination, made or rendered in such an action or special
proceeding; except where authority to arrest him is expressly

conferred by the terms of a statute. The writ of ne exeat
is hereby abolished.

§ 549. A defendant may be arrested in an action, as
prescribed in this title, Where it appears, from the complaint, that the action is brought for either of the following causes:

1. To recover a fine or penalty. ,

2. To recover damages fora personal injury; an injury
to property, other than the taking, detention, or conversion
of personal property; breach of a promise to marry; misconduct or neglect in office, or in a professional employment;
fraud ; or deceit.

3. To recover money, funds, credits, or property, held or
owned by the State, or held or owned, officially or otherwise, for or in behalf of a public or governmental interest,
by a municipal or other public corporation, board, officer,
custodian, agency, or agent, of the State, or of a city, county,
town, village, or other division, subdivision, department, or
portion of the State, which the defendant has, without
right, obtained, received, converted, or disposed of; or to
recover damages for so obtaining, receiving, paying, converting, or disposing of the same.

The cases, provided for in this section, are described in
this act, as cases where the right to arrest the defendant
depends upon the nature of the action.

§ 550. A defendant_ may also be arrested in an action, as
prescribed in this title, in either of the following cases:

1. Where it appears, from the complaint, that the action
is to recover a chattel; and, by allegations extrinsic to the
complaint, that the chattel, or a part thereof, has been
concealed, removed, or disposed of, so that it cannot be
found or taken by the sheriff, and with intent that it
should not be so found or taken, or to deprive the plaintifff
of the benefit thereof.

2. Where it appears, from the complaint, that the action
is to recover damages for the breach of a contract, express
or implied, other than a promise to marry; and, by allegations extrinsic to the complaint, that the defendant has been
guilty of a fraud in contracting the debt, or incurring the
liability; or that he has, since the making of the contract,
removed or disposed of his property, with intent to defraud
his creditors; or that he is about to remove or dispose of
the same, with like intent._

3. Where it appears, from the complaint, that the action
is to recover damages for the taking, detention, or conversion of personal property; and, by allegations extrinsic to
the complaint, that the defendant has fraudulently concealed or disposed of the property, or some part thereof.
But, in an action to recover a chattel, a claim for damages,
for the taking or detention of the chattel, does not bring the
case Within this subdivision.‘

4. Where it appears, from the complaint, that the action
is to recover for money received, or to recover property, or
damages for the conversion or misapplication of property;
and, by allegations extrinsic to the complaint, that the
money was received, or the property was embezzled or
fraudulently misapplied, by a public officer, or by an attorney, solicitor, or counsellor, or by an officer, or agent of a
corporation or banking association, in the course of his
employment; or by a factor, agent, broker, or other person
in a fiduciary capacity. But this subdivision does not apply
to an action to recover a chattel.

5. Where it appears, from the complaint, that the judgment demanded requires the performance of an act, the
neglect or refusal to perform which would be punishable
by the court as for a contempt; and, by allegations extrinsic
to the complaint, that the defendant is not a resident of the
State, or, being a resident, is about to depart therefrom, by
reason of Which non-residence or departure, there is danger,
that a judgment or an order, requiring the performance of
the act, will be rendered ineffectual.

§ 551. In a case specified in subdivision hfth of the last section, the order of arrest can be granted only by the court;
is always in its discretion; and may be granted or served,
either before or after final judgment, unless an appeal fron;
the judgment is pending, upon which security has been
given, sufficient to stay the execution thereof. In either of
the other cases specified in the last two sections, the order
cannot be served after final judgment; but it must be
granted, wh ere a proper case therefore is presented, at any
time before final judgment. '

§ 552. The recovery of judgment in a court, not of the
State, for the same cause of action; or, where the action is
founded upon fraud or deceit, for the price or value of the
property obtained thereby ; does not affect the right of the
plaintifff to arrest the defendant, as prescribed in this title.

§ 553. A woman cannot be arrested, as prescribed in this title, except in a case where the order can be granted only
by the court; or where it appears, from the complaint, that
the action is to recover damages for a personal injury, or
an injury to property, and, by allegations extrinsic to the
complaint, in addition to the other matters required to be
so shown, that the injury was willful.

§ 554. A lunatic, an idiot, or an infant under the age of
fourteen years, cannot be arrested, as prescribed in this_title.
If he is so arrested, he must be discharged from arrest as a
privileged person. The application for his discharge may
be made, in his behalf, by a relative, or by any other person
whom the court or judge permits to represent him, for the
purpose. A cause of action for damages does not arise
from the arrest, unless it was malicious.

§ 555. A person prosecuted in a representative capacity,
as heir, executor, administrator, legatee, devisee, next of
kin, assignee, or trustee, cannot be arrested, as prescribed
in this title, except for his personal act.

ARTICLE SECOND.

GRANTING, nxnctrrmc, AND vacarmc on uonnrrma mm Oannn or Annnsr.

556. Order required for arrest; how granted.

557. Proof necessary to procure order.

558. When order may be granted; effect of complaint subsequently made.
559. Security, upon order of arrest made by a judge.

560. Id.; upon order of arrest granted by the court.

561. Contents of the order; to whom directed ; when to be executed.

562. Copies of papers to be delivered to defendant; originals to be filed.

563. Arrest; how made.
564. General provision as to privilege from arrest; discharge of privileged

- person .
565. Privilege of officers of courts.
566. Defendant arrested to have twenty days to answer.
567. When application to be made to vacate order of arrest, etc.
568. How and to whom application must be made; opposing it by new proofs.
569, 570. Questions of fact arising on the motion.
571.’ When prior motion not to prejudice subsequent motion.
572. Supersedeas, unless defendant is charged in execution, etc.

§ 556. To entitle the plaintifff to cause the defendant to
be arrested, as prescribed in the last article, he must procure
an order for the arrest of the defendant. Except in a case
specified in subdivision fifth of section 550 of this act, the
order may be granted, out of court or in court, by a judge
of the court in which the action is brought, or by any

county judge.

§ 557. The order may be granted, in a case Where the
right to arrest the defendant depends upon the nature of
the action, where it appears, by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or of another person, that a sufiicient cause of action
exists against the defendant. In either of the other cases,
specified in the last article, the order may be granted,
Where it appears, upon the like proof, that a suiiicient
cause of action exists, and that the extrinsic allegations,
thereby required to be made, are true in fact. The affidavit may also contain any statement, tending to determine

the amount of bail to be required.

§ 558. Subject to the provisions of the last article,
the order may be granted at any time, after the commencement of the action. It may also be granted, to accompany
the summons; in which case, a complaint need not be presented upon the application therefore, but, for the purpose
of determining whether the order was properly granted, a
complaint, thereafter made, must be regarded as having
been made at the time of the application.

§ 559. Except Where the action is brought for a cause
specified in subdivision third of section 549 of this act, or
in a case where it is specially prescribed by law that security
may be dispensed with, or the security to be given is
specially regulated by law, the judge, before he grants the
order, must require a Written undertaking on the part of
the plaintifff, with or without sureties, to the eEect, that, if
the defendant recovers judgment, the plaintifff will pay all
costs which may be awarded to the defendant, and all
damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not
exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which must
be at least one hundred dollars. ’

§ 560. Where the order can be granted only by the
court, an undertaking on the part of the plaintifff may
be dispensed With. If it is required, its form, and the
security to be given thereupon, must be such as the court

prescribes.

§ 561. The order, except Where it is granted by the court,
must be subscribed by the plaintifffs attorney, and by the
judge. It must briefly recite the ground of arrest. It
may be directed, either to the sheriff of a particular county,
or, generally, to the sheriff of any county. It must require
the sheriff forthwith to arrest the defendant, if he is found
within his county; to hold him to bail in a specified sum;
and to return the order, with his proceedings thereunder, as
prescribed by law. The plaintifff's attorney may, at his
option, by an indorsement upon the order, or, where it was

granted by the court, upon the copy thereof, delivered to the
sheriff, fix a time Within which the defendant must be
arrested. In that case, he cannot be arrested afterwards.

§ 562. The order of arrest, or, where it was granted by
the court, a certified copy thereof, subscribed by the
plaintifffs attorney; and, in either case, the papers upon
which the order was granted; must be delivered to the
sheriff, Who, upon arresting the defendant, must deliver
to him copies thereof. The papers, upon which the order
was granted, must be filed, with the order of arrest, or a
certified copy thereof, at the time prescribed for  the
same, in sections 577 and 590 of this act.

§ 563. The sheriff must execute the order by arresting
the defendant, if he is found Within his county, and keeping him in custody until discharged by law.

§ 564. This title does not abridge or affect an existing
privilege from arrest, or a right of action for a breach
thereof. A privileged person is entitled to be discharged
from arrest, Where other provision is not made therefore by
law, by the court, or a judge thereof; or by the county
judge of the county, or a judge of a superior city court of
the city, where the arrest was made. The order must be
made, upon proof, by aliidavit, of the facts entitling the
applicant to the discharge; and the arrest and discharge
are not a bar to a new arrest, after the privilege has ceased.
The court or judge may make the order Without notice, or
may require notice to be given to the sheriff, or to the
plaintifff, or to both.

§ 565. An officer of a court of record, appointed or elected
pursuant to law, is privileged from arrest, during the actual
sitting, which he is required to attend, of a term of the
court of which he is an officer, and no longer; but an
attorney or counsellor is not thus privileged, unless he is
employed in a cause, to be heard at that term.

§ 566. Except where an order of arrest can be granted;
only by the court, a defendant, arrested before answer, has:
twenty days, after the arrest, in which to answer the com-}
plaint; and judgment must be stayed accordingly. j

§ 567. Except where an order of arrest can be granted
only by the court, a defendant, arrested as prescribed in this title, may, at any time before final judgment, or, if he was
arrested within twenty days before final judgment, at any
time within twenty days after the arrest, apply to vacate
the order of arrest; or to reduce the amount of bail; or to
increase the security given by the plaintifff; or for one or
more of those forms of relief, together, or in the alternative.
If the application is for two or more of those forms of relief,
it must be regarded, for the purposes contemplated by the
next four sections, as so many separate motions. In a case
where the order of arrest can be granted only by the court,
a like application may be made, at any time within twenty
days after the arrest; and an application to increase the

security given by the plaintifff, may be made at any time
before final judgment. ‘

§ 568. An application, specified in the last section, may
be founded only upon the papers upon which the order was
granted; in which case, it must be made to the court, or, if
the order was granted by a judge out of court, to the same
judge, in court or out of court, and with or without notice,
as he deems proper. Or it may be founded upon proof, by
affidavit, on the part of the defendant; in which case, it
must be made to the court, or, if the order was granted by
a judge, out of court, to any judge of the court, upon notice;
and it may be opposed by new proof, by affidavit, on the
part of the plaintifff, tending to sustain any ground of arrest
recited in the order, and no other, unless the defendant relies upon a discharge in bankruptcy, or upon a discharge or
exoneration, granted in insolvent proceedings; in which
case, the plaintifff may show any matter in avoidance
thereof, which he might show upon the trial.

§ 569. Upon the hearing of such an application, the
court or judge must assume the truth of each allegation of
the complaint, which is essential to sustain the order of
arrest, and respecting which there is conflicting evidence;
although a conflict of evidence may be taken into consideration, for the purpose of fixing the amount of bail, or of
the security to be given by the plaintifff.

§ 570. In a case, where the plaintifffs right to arrest the
defendant depends partly upon allegations extrinsic to the
complaint, the truth of those allegations must be determined,
as a question of fact, by the court or judge, upon the application to vacate the order of arrest. But the hearing may
be adjourned, to enable the parties to procure further evidence, either by affidavit, or by deposition taken before a
referee, appointed for that purpose, by the court or judge.

§ 571. The granting or denial of such an application,
founded only upon the papers upon which the order of arrest
was granted, does not prejudice a subsequent application,
seasonably made, founded upon proof, by affidavit, on the
part of the defendant; and the granting or denial of either
application does not prejudice a subsequent application,
seasonably made, founded upon the failure of a complaint,
which had not been made at the time of the former application, to set forth a cause of action, sufficient to entitle
the plaintifff to the order of arrest, upon a ground recited
therein.

§ 572. Except In a case Where an order of arrest can be
granted only by the court, if the defendant is in actual
custody, and the plaintifff neglects to enter judgment in the
action, Within one month after it is in his power to do so; or
neglects to issue execution against the person of the defendant, within three months after the entry of judgment; the
defendant must, on his application, made upon notice to the
plaintifff, be discharged from custody, by the court in which
the action Was commenced, or by a judge thereof, Within

the county Where the defendant is in custody; unless it is
shown, that the neglect was with the express assent, or was
caused by the act or procurement, of the defendant or his
attorney. A defendant, discharged as prescribed in this section, shall_ not be arrested, upon an execution issued

upon a judgment in the action.

ARTICLE THIRD.

Drscnanenwa run Dnmnnmr UPON BAIL on Dszrosrr; J UBTIFICATION or run:
Ban. um Drsrosrrron on ma: Dmrosrr.

573. Defendant to be discharged on bail or deposit.

574. When defendant may elect to give bail, etc., or bond for liberties.
575. Undertaking of the bail; whatto contain.

576. Examination of persons offered as bail.

577. Filing, etc., of papers; plaintiE’s acceptance or rejection of bail.
578. Notice of justification ; new undertaking, if other bail is given.
579. Qualifications of bail.

580. J ustification of bail.

581. Allowance of bail.

582. Deposit of money with sheiif.

583. Payment of deposit into court by sherif.

584. Substituting bail for deposit.

585. How deposit disposed of.

586. When deposit to be paid to a third person.

587. Sherin, when liable as bail; his discharge from liability. ,
588. Proceedings on judgment against sheriff.

589. Bail liable to sheriff.

590. Filing papers if bail not given.

§ 573. The defendant, at any time before he is in contempt, where the order can be granted only by the court, or,
in any other case, at any time before execution against his
person, must be discharged from arrest, either upon giving
bail, or upon depositing the sum specified in the order of
arrest. The defendant may give bail, or make the deposit,
immediately upon his arrest, at any hour of the day or
night; and he must have reasonable opportunity to seek

for and to procure bail, before being committed to jail.

§ 574. Where the defendant is actually confined in the jail,
by virtue of an order of arrest and final or interlocutory

judgment has been rendered against him in the action, but
an execution against his person has not been issued, he may
elect, either to give a bond for the liberties of the jail, or to
give bail or make a deposit, as prescribed in this article.

§ 575. The defendant may give bail, by delivering to the
sheriff a written undertaking, in the sum specified in the
order of arrest, executed by two or more suliicient bail,
stating their places of residence and occupations, to the following effect:

1. If the order of arrest could be granted only by the
court, that the defendant will obey the direction of the
court, or of an appellate court, contained in an order or a
judgment, requiring him to perform the act specified in the
order; or, in default of his so doing, that he will, at all
times, render himself amenable to proceedings to punish
him for the omission.

2. If the action is to recover a chattel, that the defendant will deliver it to the plaintifff, if delivery thereof is
adjudged in the action, and will pay any sum recovered
against him in the action.

3. In any other case, that the defendant will, at all times,
render himself amenable to any mandate, which may be
issued to enforce a final udgment against him in the action.

§ 576. The officer, taking the acknowledgment of the
undertaking, must, if the sheriff so requires, examine under
oath, to a reasonable extent, the persons offering to become
bail, concerning their property and their circumstances.

The examination must be reduced to Writing, subscribed by

the bail, and annexed to the undertaking; and a copy thereof
must be delivered to the plaintifffs attorney, with a copy of
the undertaking, as prescribed in the next section.

§ 577. Within three days after bail is given, the sheriff

A must file with the clerk, the order of arrest, with his return

thereon indorsed; the papers upon which the order of arrest

was granted; and the undertaking of the bail. Within the
same time, he must deliver to the p1aintiii"s attorney, copies,
certified by him, of the order of arrest, return, and undertaking. The plaintifff ’s attorney, within ten days thereafter,
must serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does not accept
the bail ; otherwise he is deemed to have accepted them, and
the sheriff is exonerated from liability. Where an order of
arrest, directing the arrest of two or more defendants, has
been executed as to some, but not as to all of them, the
sheriff may file a copy of the order of arrest. instead of the

original.

§ 578. Within ten days after the receipt of the notice, the
sheriff or the defendant may serve upon the plaintifffs attorney, notice of the ‘justification of the same or other bail,
specifying the place of residence and occupation of each of the
latter, before a judgeof the court, or a county judge, at a
speciiied time and place; the time to be not less than five
nor more than ten days thereafter, and the place to be within
the county where one of the bail resides, or where the
defendant was arrested. If other bail are given, a new
undertaking must be executed, as prescribed in section 575
of this act.

§ 579. The qualifications of bail are as follows:

1. Each of them must be a resident of, and a householder
or freeholder within the State.

2. Each of them must be worth the sum specified in the
order of arrest, exclusive of property exempt from execution ; but the judge, on justification, may allow more than
two bail to ustify, severally, in sums less than that specified
in the order, if the whole justification is equivalent to that
of two sufficient bail. "

§ 580. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail
must attend before the judge, at the time and place mentioned in the notice, and be examined on oath, on the part
of the plaintifff, touching his sufliciency, in such manner as
the judge, in his discretion, thinks proper. The judge may,

in his discretion, adjourn the examination from day to day,
until it is completed; but such an adjournment must always
be to the next judicial day, unless by consent of parties.
If required by the plaintifff's attorney, the examination must
be reduced to writing, and subscribed by the bail.

§ 581. If the judge finds the bail sufficient, he must annex
the examination to the undertaking, indorse his allowance
thereon, and cause them to be filed with the clerk. The
sheriff is thereupon exonerated from liability.

§ 582. The defendant may, instead of giving bail, deposit
with the sheriff the sum specified in the order. The sheriff
must thereupon give the defendant a certificate of the
deposit, and discharge him from custody.

§ 583. The sheriff must, within four days afterlthe deposit,
pay it into court. He must take, from the officer receiving it, two certificates of the payment, one of which he must
deliver to the plaintifff, and the_other to the defendant. For
a default in making the payment, the official bond of the
sheriff may be prosecuted, as in any other case of delinquency.

§ 584. If money is deposited, as prescribed in the last two sections, bail may be given, and may justify upon notice, at
any time before the expiration of the right to be discharged
on bail. Thereupon the judge, before whom the justification
is had, must direct, in the order of allowance, that the
money deposited be refunded to the defendant, or his representative, and it must be refunded accordingly.

§ 585. If money deposited is not refunded, as prescribed
in the last section, it is, in a case where the order of arrest
could be granted only by the court, subject to the direction
of the court, as justice requires, before and after the judgment. In any other case, if it remains on deposit, when
final judgment is rendered for the plaintifff, it must be

applied, under the direction of the court, in satisfaction of
the judgment; and the surplus, if any, must be refunded
to the defendant, or his representative. If the final judgment is for the defendant, or the action abates, or is discontinued, the sum deposited, and remaining unapplied,
must be refunded to the defendant or his representative.

§ 586. At any time before the deposit is paid into court,
the defendant may deliver to the sheriff a written direction,
to pay it to a third person, therein specified, in the event
that the defendant becomes entitled to a return thereof; but
without expressing any other contingency. The direction
must be acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like
manner as a deed to be recorded; and the sheriff must
deliver it to the officer who receives the deposit, who must
note the substance thereof, with the entries of the deposit,
in his books, and upon the two certificates of payment into
court. The money thus deposited is deemed the property
of the third person, subject to the plaintifffs interest therein,
and subject to the rights of a creditor of the defendant,
where the direction was given for the purpose of hindering,
delaying, or defrauding creditors. The money, or the residue
thereof, must be paid to the third person, where, by the
provisions of the last two sections, it is required to be
refunded to the defendant, or his representative.

§ 587. If, after the defendant is arrested, he escapes or is ,

rescued, or the bail, if any, given by him, do not justify,

when they are not accepted, the sheriff is liable as bail. A
But the sheriff may, except in an action to recover a chattel, i
discharge himself from liability, by the giving and justification of bail, as follows:
1. If the case is one where the order could be granted
only by the court, at any time before the court directs the

performance of the act speciiied in the order.
2. In any other case, at any time before an execution is

issued against the person of the defendant, upon a judgment
in the action.

§ 588. If judgment is recovered against the sheriff, upon

, his liability as bail, and an execution thereon is returned

Wholly or partly unsatisfied, the official bond of the sheriff
may be prosecuted, as in any other case of delinquency.

§ 589. The bail taken upon the arrest, unless they justify,
or other bail are given and justify, are liable to the sheriff
for all damages, which he sustains by reason thereof.

§ 590. If the defendant does not give bail, Within ten
days after he is arrested, the sheriff must file with the clerk
the order of arrest, with his return thereon indorsed, and
the papers upon which the order of arrest was granted,

ARTICLE FOURTH.

Cnaaomc AND nrscmmanws Bun.

 591. When defendant may be surrendered.
592. How surrender to be made; exoneration of bail thereupon.

598. Bail may arrest defendant.
594. Voluntary surrender; exoneration of bail thereupon.

595. Rights, etc., of sheriff who is liable as bail.

596. Bail; how proceeded against. a
597. Certain executions necessary before action against bail.

598. Duty of sheriff on such executions.

599. Defences in action against bail.
600. Relief of bail where principal is imprisoned on criminal charge.

601. Bail exonerated by death, etc.

§ 591. Exceptin an action to recover a chattel, the bail
may surrender the defendant in their own exoneration, or
the defendant may surrender himself in exoneration of the
bail, before the expiration of the time to answer, in an
action against them. The surrender must be made to the
sheriff of the county, Where the defendant Was arrested.

§ 592. Where the bail surrender the defendant, the surrender must be made in the following manner:
1. They must take the defendant to the sheriff, and
require him, in writing, to take the defendant into his

custody.

2. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail must
be delivered to the sheriff, who must detain the defendant
in his custody thereupon, as upon the original mandate, and
must, by a certificate in writing, acknowledge the surrender.
Upon the application of the bail, made upon notice to the
plaintifff’s attorney, and upon production of the sheriff’s
certificate and a copy of the undertaking, a judge of the
court, or the county judge of the county where the action is
triable, may make an order, directing that the bail be exonerated. On filing the order and the papers used on the
application therefore, the bail are exonerated accordingly.

§ 593. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the
bail may themselves arrest him, or, by a written authority,
indorsed on a certified copy of the undertaking, may empower another person to do so. The arrest may be made,
within or without the State; and one or more of the bail
may thus arrest and surrender the defendant, although the
others do not join with him or them, for that purpose.

§ 594. Where the defendant surrenders himself in exoneration of his bail, he must present himself to the sheriff, and
require the sheriff, in writing, to take him into custody, in
exoneration of his bail. The sheriff must detain him accordingly, as prescribed in subdivision second of section 592 of
this act; and, when requested by the bail, at any time after
the surrender, the sheriff must, by a certificate in writing,
acknowledge the surrender. An order for the exoneration
of the bail may be procured, as prescribed in section 592 of
this act.

§ 595. Where the sheriff is liable as bail, he has all the
rights and privileges, and is subject to all the duties and
liabilities of bail; and bail given by him, in order to discharge himself from liability, must be regarded as the hail
of the defendant in the action. But this section does not
apply to an action to recover a chattel; or to a case where a
defense arises to an action against the bail, in consequence
of an act or omission of the sheriff.

§ 596. In case of failure to comply with the undertaking,

the bail may be proceeded against by action, and not otherW136.

§ 597. An action may be brought, as prescribed in the
last section, in a case Where the order of arrest could 
granted only by the court, at any time after the bail have
failed to comply With their undertaking. Where the
undertaking was given in an action to recover a chattel,
an action may be brought thereupon, at any time after the
return, Wholly or partly unsatisfied, of an execution for the
delivery of the possession of the chattel, With respect to
which the order of arrest was granted. In any other case,
an action cannot be brought, as prescribed in the last section,
until the following requisites have been complied With:

1. An execution, against the property of the defendant,
must have been issued to the sheriff of the county in which
he was arrested, and returned by that sheriff, Wholly or
partly unsatisfied.

2. An execution, against the person of the defendant,
must have been issued to the same sheriff,‘ and by him
returned, not less than fifteen days after its receipt, to the
effect that the defendant could not be found Within his
county.

§ 598. The sheriff must diligently endeavor to serve an
execution issued and delivered to him, as prescribed in the
last section, notwithstanding any direction he may receive
from the plaintifff, or his attorney.

§ 599. In an action against bail, it is a defense, that an
execution, against the property, or against the person, of the
defendant in the original action, was not issued, as prescribed in the last section but one; or that it was not issued
in sufficient time to enable the sheriff to serve it; or that a
direction was given, or other fraudulent or collusive means

were used, by the plaintifff or his attorney, to prevent the
service thereof.

§ 600. If the defendant in the original action, after his
' discharge upon bail, is imprisoned, either within or without
the State, upon a criminal charge, or a conviction of a criminal offense, the court, in which an action against the bail is t

pending, may, before the expiration of the time to answer,
and upon notice to the adverse party, make such an order
for the relief of the bail, as justice requires.


§ 601. Except in an action to recover a chattel, the bail

must be exonerated where either of the following events 

occurs, before the expiration of the time to answer in an
action against them:

1. The death of the original defendant.

2. His legal discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the process, direction, or proceedings, with
respect to which the undertaking of the bail was made.

3. His surrender to the sheriff of the county where he
was arrested.

Where either event occurs, after the commencement of the
action against the hail, the court may, in its discretion, impose
the payment of the plaintifffs costs and expenses, incurred
after the return of the execution against the person, as a condition of allowing the exoneration. And the court may, by
an order, made upon notice to the adverse party, grant such
further time as it deems just, after answer, for the surrender
of the original defendant. In that case, his surrender,
within the time so granted, has the same effect, as if it had
been made before answer. ’

TITLE 11.
Injmwtimz.

ARTICLE 1. Cases where an injunction may be granted; granting and service of
an injunction order.

2. Security.
3. Vacating or modifying an injunction order.

ARTICLE FIRST:

Cssns wmmn an Immncrrou nu ma enurrnzn; anurrme um Snsvron or
AN Izumnorron Onnnn.

602. Writ of injunction abolished, and order substituted.

603. Injunction, when the right thereto depends upon the nature of the action.
604. Id.; when the right thereto depends upon extrinsic facts.

605. Restrictions upon injunction to restrain State officers.

606. By whom injunction granted in other cases.

607. Proof necessary to procure injunction.

608. At what time the order may be granted.

609. When notice required or not required. Injunction pending an application.
610. Order must recite grounds; service of order.

§ 602. The writ of injunction has been abolished. A
temporary injunction may be granted by order, as prescribed
in this article.

§ 603. Where it appears, from the complaint, that the
plaintifff demands and is entitled to a judgment against the
defendant, restraining the commission or continuance of an
act, the commission or continuance of Which, during the
pendency of the action. would produce injury to the plaintifff,
an injunction order may be granted to restrain it. The case,
provided for in this section, is described in this act, as a
case Where the right to an injunction depends upon the
nature of the action.

§ 604. In either of the following cases, an injunction
order may also be granted in an action:

1. Where it appears, by allegations extrinsic to the complaint, that the defendant, during the pendency of the
action, is doing, or procuring, or suffering to be done, or
threatens, or is about to do, or to procure, or suffer to be
done, an act, in violation of the plaintiffi"s rights, respecting
the subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual, an injunction order may be granted to
restrain it.

2. Where it appears, by allegations extrinsic to the complaint, that the defendant, during the pendency of the
action, threatens, or is about to remove, or to dispose of his
property, With intent to defraud the plaintifff, an injunction
order may be granted, to restrain the removal or disposition.

§ 605. Where a duty is imposed by law upon a State;
oiiicer, or board of State officers, an injunction order to}
restrain him or them, or a person employed by him or them, 1
from the performance of that duty, or to prevent the exe- 1
cution of the statute, shall not be granted, except by the
supreme court, at a general term thereof, sitting in the department in which the officer or board is located, or the
duty is required to be performed; and upon notice of the
application therefore to the officer, board, or other person to

be restrained.

§ 606. Except where it is otherwise specially prescribed 
by law, an injunction order may be granted by the court in ‘
which the action is brought, or by a judge thereof, or by 1
any county judge; and Where it is granted by a judge, it
may be enforced as the order of the court.

§ 607. The order may be granted, in a case Where the]
right to an injunction depends upon the nature of the}
action, where it appears to the court or judge, by the affi- ‘
davit of the plaintifff, or any other person, that a sufiicient
cause of action exists. In any other case, provided for in
this article, it may be granted, Where it appears, upon the
like proof, to the court or judge, that a suilicient cause of
action exists, and that the extrinsic allegations, required to
be made, are true in fact.

§ 608. The order may be granted, at any time after the ,
commencement of the action, and before final judgment. It 1
may also be granted to accompany the summons; in which :
case, a complaint need not be presented to the court or

judge, upon the application therefore: but, for the purpose
of determining whether the order was properly granted, a
complaint, thereafter made, must be "regarded as having
been made at the time of the application.

§ 609. The order may be granted, upon or without notlce,
in the discretion of the court or judge, unless the defendant
has answered; in which case, it can be granted only upon

.notice. Where an application for an injunction is made
' upon notice, either before or after answer, the court or judge

may enjoin the defendant, until the hearing and decision of
the application.

§ 610. The injunction order must brieny recite the
grounds for the injunction. Where it is granted by the
court, it must be served by delivering a certified copy
thereof; where it is granted by a judge, it must be served
by showing the original order, and delivering a copy thereof.
Service of the order, upon a corporation, may be made as
prescribed in this act, for making personal service of a summons upon a corporation. Copies of the papers, upon
which the order was granted, must be delivered with the
copy of the order.

ARTICLE SECOND.

Sncunrrr.

 611. Security, on staying proceedings in an action, before trial.

612. Id.; after trial, and before judgment.

613. Id.; after judgment.

614. Money deposited may be paid over.

615. Undertaking to be cancelled thereupon.

616. Security, on staying proceedings after verdict, in ejectment or dower.
617. Id. ; damages to include waste.

618. Deposit may be dispensed with.

619. Undertaking and deposit; when dispensed with.

620. Security in other cases.

621. Special cases excepted.

622. When undertaking deemed forfeited.

628. Damages; how ascertained.

624. Damages sustained by a third person.

625. Action on the undertaking.

§ 611. An injunction order shall not be granted, to stay
the trial of an action, in which the complaint demands judgment for a sum of money only, after issue has been joined
therein, unless the party applying therefore gives an undertaking to the party enjoined, with sufficient sureties, to the
effect, that he will pay to the party enjoined, or his representative, all damages and costs, which may be recovered
by him in the action stayed by the injunction, not exceeding
a sum specified in the undertaking; and, also, all damages
and costs that may be awarded to him, in the action in
which the injunction order is made.

§ 612. An injunction order shall not be granted, to stay
proceedings in an action specified in the last section, after
verdict, report, or decision, and before final judgment thereupon, unless a sum of money, sufficient to cover the sum
awarded by the verdict, report, or decision, and the costs of
the action, is first paid, by the party applying for the injunction into the court, in which his action is commenced, or an
undertaking for the payment thereof, with interest, is given,
as prescribed in this article.

§ 613. An injunction order shall not be granted, to stay
proceedings upon a judgment for a sum of money, unless
the following requisites are complied with, by the party
applying therefore:

1. The full amount of the judgment, including costs,
must be paid by him, into the court in which his action is
commenced; or an undertaking in lieu thereof must be
given, as prescribed in this article.

2. He must also give an undertaking, with sufiicient
sureties, to pay to the party enjoined, all damages and costs,
which may be awarded to him by the court, in the action
in which the injunction order is granted; not exceeding a
sum, specified in the undertaking.

§ 614. Money paid into court, as prescribed in the last
two sections, may be paid over, by the direction of the court, ;

to the party whose proceedings are stayed, upon his giving
an undertaking to the people of the State, with suiiicient
sureties, to pay the money and interest, or any part thereof,
as directed in the order or judgment of the court.

§ 615. Where money so deposited has been paid to the
party whose proceedings are stayed, if the final decision of
the action, in which the injunction order is granted, is against
the party obtaining it, the court must give such directions,
as justice requires, with respect to cancelling the undertaking given by the successful party; making perpetual the
injunction staying collection of the judgment; and requiring
the judgment to be discharged of record.

§ 616. An injunction order shall not be granted, to stay

‘proceedings in an action of ejectment, or for dower, after ver_ dict, report, or decision, unless the party applying therefore
gives an undertaking, with sufficient sureties, to pay to the

party enjoined, or his representative, all damages and costs,
not exceeding a sum specified in the undertaking, which may
be awarded to him, in the action wherein the injunction was

granted.

§ 617. Where an undertaking is given, as prescribed in
the last section, the damages to be paid thereon, upon the

vacating of the injunction order, or the decision of the action.

against the party obtaining it, include, not only the reasonable rents and profits of the real property, recovered by the
verdict, report, or decision, but all waste committed thereon,

after the granting of the injunction.

§ 618. In a case, where a deposit of money is required
by the foregoing sections of this article, the court or judge
may dispense with it, and may require, in lieu thereof,
an undertaking, with two or more sureties, to pay the
sum specified, with interest, as directed by the court. If an
undertaking is required, in addition to the deposit, both
undertakings may be contained in the same instrument, at
the election of the party applying for the injunction.

§ 619. The foregoing sections of this article do not apply to a case, Where -an injunction order is applied for, to stay }
proceedings in another action, on the ground that a judg- I
ment, verdict, report, or decision therein was obtained by 1
actual fraud. In that case, the court or judge granting the
injunction order may dispense with the deposit of money, or
the execution of an undertaking, except as prescribed in the
next section. '

§ 620. Where special provision is not otherwise made by :
law for the security to be given upon an injunction order, 1
the party applying therefore must give an undertaking, with
or Without sureties, as the court or judge directs, to the
eifect, that the plaintifff will pay to the party enjoined, such
damages, not exceeding a sum specified in the undertaking,
as he may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the court

finally decides that the plaintifff was not entitled thereto.

§ 621. The foregoing provisions of this article do not :
affect any special statutory provision, whereby security upon 
granting an injunction order may be dispensed with in a
particular case, or the security to be given in a particular
case is otherwise regulated.

§ 622. The court is deemed to have finally decided, that ‘
the plainti.&' was not entitled to the injunction, Within the 3
meaning of this article, or of an undertaking given pursu- 1
ant thereto, in either of the following cases ,:

1. Where the right to an injunction depends upon the
nature of the action, When a final judgment is rendered in
the action, which does not establish the plaintifff’s right to a
perpetual injunction.

2. In any other case, when the injunction order is vacated;
or, if an application to vacate it is not made, or is denied,
when final judgment against the plaintifff is rendered in the
action; or, if two or more causes of action are joined in
the complaint. when final judgment is so rendered upon the

cause of action, with respect to which the injunction order

was granted.

3. Where an appeal is taken from a judgment or order,
specified in either of the last two subdivisions, and a stay
of proceedings is obtained thereupon, when the judgment or
order is finally afhrmed in, or the appeal is dismissed by, the
highest court, to which an appeal therefrom is taken.

§ 623. The damages, sustained by reason of an injunction,
may be ascertained and determined by the court, or by a
referee, appointed by the court; and the decision of the
court thereupon, or an order confirming the report of the
referee, is conclusive, as to the amount of those damages,
upon all the persons Who have executed the undertaking,
unless it is reversed upon appeal. The court may, in its
discretion, direct that the sureties have notice of the hearing, or of an appeal, and may prescribe the time and manner of giving them notice.

§ 624. Where the defendant enjoined was an officer of a
xcorporation, or joint-stock association, or a bailee, agent,
trustee, or other representative of another, and the damages,
sustained by him, are less than the sum specified in the
undertaking, the court or the referee may also separately
ascertain and determine the damages sustained, by reason of
the injunction, by the corporation, association, or person,
whom the defendant represents, to an amount not exceeding
the surplus of the sum specified in the undertaking; and
those damages may be recovered in a separate action,
brought as prescribed in the next section.

§ 625. Where the damages have been ascertained by the
decision of the court, or the confirmation of a referee's report,
as prescribed in the last two sections, any person, entitled to
the benefit of an undertaking, executed pursuant to the
provisions of this title, may bring an action thereon, without further leave of the court.

ARTICLE THIRD.

Vncurme on nonnrrme an Imurrorron Onnmz.

626. Application to vacate or modify, without notice.

627. Id.; upon notice.

628. When prior motion not to prejudice subsequent application.
629. New undertaking may be required.

630. Verified answer to have the efect only of an affidavit.

681. When merits of action may be litigated.

682. When merits not to be litigated.

683. Extrinsic questions of fact to be determined.

634. Proof upon questions of fact.

§ 626. Where the injunction order was granted Without
notice, the party enjoined may apply, upon the papers upon
which it was granted, for an order vacating or modifying
the injunction order. Such an application may be made,
Without notice, to the judge who granted the order, or who
held the term of the court Where it was granted; or to
the general term of the court. It cannot be made Without
notice, to any other judge or term, unless the applicant produces proof, by affidavit, that, by reason of the absence or
other disability of the judge who granted the order, the
application cannot be made to him; and that the applicant
will be exposed to great injury, by the delay required for an
application upon notice. The affidavit must be filed with
the clerk: and a copy thereof, and of the order vacating or
modifying the injunction order, must be served upon the
plaintifff's attorney, before that order takes effect.

§ 627. Where the injunction order was granted upon
notice, the party enjoined may also apply, upon notice, to
the judge who granted it, or to the court, at a term where
a contested motion in the action may be heard, for an order,
vacating or modifying the injunction order. Such an
application may be founded upon the papers upon which
the injunction was granted; or upon proof, by affidavit, on
the part of the defendant; or both. Where it is founded
upon proof on the part of the defendant, it may be opposed

‘by new proof, by afhdavit, on the part of the plaintifff, tending to sustain any ground for the injunction, recited in the
order, but no other.

§ 628. The granting or denial of an application, made as
prescribed in the last section, founded only upon the papers
upon which_ the injunction order was granted, does not projudice a subsequent application, seasonably made, founded
upon proof, by affidavit, on the part of the defendant. And
the granting or denial of either application does not prejudice a subsequent application, seasonably made, founded
upon the failure of a complaint, which had not been made
at the time of the former application, to set forth a cause of
action sufficient to entitle the plaintifff to the injunction
order, upon one or more grounds, recited therein.

§ 629. Upon the hearing of an application, upon notice,

‘to vacate or modify an injunction order, the court or judge

may require a new undertaking, in the same or in a different sum, to be given by the plaintifff, with the like sureties,
and to the like effect, as upon granting an original order.
The persons executing the new undertaking become liable
thereon, as if they had executed it upon the granting of the
original order. The persons who executed the original undertaking remain liable thereon, until the new undertaking
is given and approved, and no longer.

§ 630. Upon the hearing of a contested application for
:an injunction order, or to vacate or modify such an order, a
verified answer has the effect only of an affidavit.

§ 631. In a case where the right to an injunction depends
upon the nature of the action, the court or judge, upon an
application specified in the last section, must, if necessary
for the purposes of the motion, determine, as a question of
fact, the truth of each allegation of the complaint, essential
to granting or sustaining the injunction order.

§ 632. In any other case, the court or judge, upon an
application specified in the last two sections, must assume
the truth of each allegation of the complaint, which is essential to sustain the injunction, and respecting which there is
coniiicting evidence; although a coniiict of evidence may be
taken into consideration, for the purpose of nxing the
amount of the security to be given by the plaintifff.

§ 633. Where the plaintifff’s right to an injunction
depends partly upon allegations extrinsic to the complaint,
the truth of those allegations must be determined, as a
question of fact, by the court or judge, upon an application
to vacate or modify an injunction order.

§ 634. The determination of a question of fact, arising as
specined in the last section, may be made upon the proof
adduced on both sides; or the hearing may be adjourned
for the purpose of enabling the parties to procure further
evidence, either by aiiidavit, or by deposition taken before

a referee, appointed for that purpose by the court or judge.

TITLE III.
Attaolmwnt of properzz/.

ABTIOIJB 1. Cases where a warrant of attachment may be granted; and proceedings upon granting the same.
8. Executing the warrant pending the action.
8. Vacating or modifying the warrant; discharging the attachment.
4. Regulations where there are two .or ‘more warrants of attachment

against the same defendant.
5. Proceedings after judgment; rights of parties and duties of the

sheriff, after the warrant is vacated or annulled, or the attachment
discharged.

ARTICLE FIRST.

Guns wanna A Wannurr or Armcnunnr In an anarrrnn; AND Pno.
cnnnmes UPON GRANTING mm sum.

8:0. 635. In what actions a warrant of attachment may be granted.
636. What must be shown to procure the warrant.

637. Warrant in action against public officer, etc., for peculation.

638. When and by whom the warrant may be granted.

639. Afiidavits to be nled.

640. Security on obtaining warrant.

641. Contents of warrant; to whom directed.

648. Validity of undertaking.

§ 635. A Warrant of attachment against the property of

tone or more defendants in an action, may be granted upon

the application of the plaintifff, in a case specified in the next section, Where the complaint demands judgment for a sum
of money only, and it appears, from the complaint, that the
action is brought to recover damages for one or more of the
following causes:

1. Breach of contract, express or implied, other than a
contract to marry.

2. Wrongful conversion of personal property.

3. Loss of, or damage or injury to, personal property, in
consequence of negligence, fraud, or other misconduct.

§ 636. In order to entitle the plaintifff to such a Warrant,
he must show, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the judge
granting the same,-as follows:

1. That a sufiicient cause of action exists against the
defendant, to recover damages for one or more of the causes
specified in the last section. If the action is to recover damages for breach of a contract, the affidavit must show that
the plaintifff is entitled to recover a sum stated therein, over
and above all counterclaims known to him.

2. That the defendant is either a foreign corporation, or
not a resident of the State; or, if he is a natural person and
a resident of the State, that he has departed therefrom,
With intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service
of a summons, or keeps himself concealed therein with the
like intent; or, if the defendant is a natural person, or a
domestic corporation, that he or it has removed, or is about
to remove, property from the State, with intent to defraud
his or its creditors; or has assigned, disposed of, or secreted,
or is about to assign, dispose of, or secrete property, with

the like intent.

§ 637. A Warrant of attachment, against the property of
one or more defendants in an action, may also be granted,
upon the application of the plaintifff, Where the complaint
demands judgment for a sum of money only; and it appears,

from the complaint, that the action is brought to recover
money, funds, credits, or other property, held or owned by

the State, or held or owned, oiiicially or otherwise, for or in
behalf of a public or governmental interest, by a municipal

or other public corporation, board, officer, custodian, agency,
or agent, of the State, or of a. city, county, town, village, or
other division, subdivision, department, or portion of the
State, which the defendant has, Without right, obtained,

received, converted, or disposed of; or in the obtaining,
reception, payment, conversion, or disposition of Which,
Without right, he has aided or abetted; or to recover damages for so obtaining, receiving, paying, converting, or disposing of the same; or the aiding or abetting thereof. In
order to entitle the plaintifff to a Warrant of attachment, in
a case specified in this section, he must show, by afridavit,
to the satisfaction of the judge granting it, that a suliicient
cause of action exists against the defendant, for a sum,

stated in the affidavit.

§ 638. The Warrant may be granted by a judge of the
court, or by any county judge, at any time after the commencement of the action, and before final judgment therein.
It may also be granted, before the service of the summons ;
in which case, a complaint need not be presented to the
judge, upon the application therefore; but, for the purpose
of determining Whether the Warrant Was properly granted,
a complaint, thereafter made, must be regarded as having
been made at the time of the application. In the same case,
personal service of the summons must be made. upon the
defendant, against Whose property the Warrant is granted,
within thirty days after the granting thereof; or else, before
the expiration of the same time, service of the summons by
publication must have been commenced, or service thereof
must have been made without the State, pursuant to an

order obtained therefore, as prescribed in this act; and, if
publication has been, or is thereafter commenced, the service
must be made complete, by the continuance thereof.

§ 639. The plaintifff procuring the warrant must, within
ten days after the granting thereof, cause the affidavits,
upon which it was granted, to be filed in the office of the
clerk of the county Where the action is triable.

§ 640. The judge, before granting the warrant, must require a written undertaking, on the part of the plaintifff,

with sufficient sureties, to the effect, that if the defendant recovers judgment, or if the Warrant is vacated, the
plaintifff will pay all costs which may be awarded to the
defendant, and all damages, Which he may sustain by reason
of the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking, Which must be at least two hundred and fifty
dollars. But this section does not apply to a case, Where
the action is brought for a cause specified in section 637 of
this act, or where it is specially prescribed by law that security may be dispensed With, or Where the security to be
given is specially regulated by law.

§ 641. The warrant must be subscribed by the judge and
the plaintifff’s attorney, and must briefly recite the ground
of the attachment. It may be directed, either to the sheriff
of a particular county, or, generally, to the sheriff of any
county. It must require the sheriff to attach and safely
keep, so much of the property, within his county, which the
defendant has, or which he may have, at any time before
hnal judgment in the action, as will satisfy the plaintifff’s
demand, with costs and expenses. The amount of the
plaintifffs demand must be specified in the Warrant, as
stated in the affidavit. Warrants may be issued at the
same time, to sheriffs of different counties.

§ 642. It is not a defense to an action upon an undertaking, given upon granting a warrant of attachment, that
the warrant was granted improperly, for want of jurisdiction, or for any other cause.

ARTICLE SECOND.

Exnctrrme rm: Wannurr, rnsnme '1-an Acnon.

SIG. 643. Judge who granted warrant controls its execution; power of the court
thereupon.

644. Sheriff must attach property of defendant.

645. What interest in real property may be attached.

646. Attachment of unpaid subscription to foreign corporation.
647. Id. ; interest in corporation.

648. Id. ; negotiable securities.

649. How property to be attached.

650. Certilicate of defendant's interest to be furnished.

651. Person refusing certificate may be examined.

652. Rights of owner or master of vessel on which goods have been shipped.
653. Foregoing section not to apply in certain cases.

654. Sherid‘ must make inventory.

655. Sheriif may maintain actions.

656. Perishable goods to be sold.

657. Claim of property; how tried.

658. Proceedings, if claimant succeeds.

659. Binding, not to prejudice right of claimant.

660. Proceedings on claim to domestic vessel.

661. Appraisers to be sworn; valuation to be returned.

662. Undertaking to be given.

663. Vessel; when to be discharged.

664. When undertaking to be sued.

665. Defence in such an action; plaintifffs recovery.

666. Foreign vessel; how valued.

667. Notice thereof.

668. Plaintif to give undertaking with sureties.

669. Vessel; when to be discharged.

670. Terms on which debtor may claim vessel.

671, 672. 678. When vessel to be sold.

674. Sherif to keep property.

675. Sherif may be directed to pay money into court.

676. When he may be directed to release or deliver property.
677. Plaintif may bring action in name of himself and the sheriff.
678. How leave to bring such an action procured.

679. Plaintiff may be joined with sherii, after action commenced

680.’ Judge to direct as to management of such an action, etc.
681. Return of inventory; how enforced.

§ 643. The judge, who granted the Warrant of attach--‘
ment, has exclusive control over, and direction of, thei

proceedings in the execution thereof, as prescribed in this title; except that the court may assume control and direction thereof, in respect to the matter of a motion, made in
the action, upon notice; and that, in case of the expiration
of the term of office, or the sickness or other disability, or
the absence from the State, of the judge Who granted the
Warrant, control and direction of the proceedings may be
temporarily exercised, subject to the assumption thereof by
the court, by any other judge of the court, or by the county
judge of the county, Where the attached property is situated. Where the Warrant was granted by a county judge,
the court may, by order, assume thereafter exclusive control
over, and direction of any or all of the proceedings, and
may limit the action of the county judge accordingly.

§ 644. The sheriff must immediately execute the Warrant,
by levying upon so much of the real property of the
defendant, Within his county, not exempt from levy and sale
by virtue of an execution, and of the personal property of
the defendant, not exempt in like manner, Which he finds
within his county, as will satisfy the plaintifff’s demand,
with the costs and expenses. He must take into his custody
all books of account, vouchers, and other papers, relating to
the personal property attached, and all evidences of the defendant’s title to the real property attached, which he must
safely keep, to be disposed of, as prescribed in this title. The
sheriff, to Whom a Warrant of attachment is delivered, may
levy, from time to time, and as often as is necessary, until
the amount, for which it was issued, has been secured, or
hnal judgment has been rendered in the action, notwithstanding the expiration of his term of office.

§ 645. The real property, which may be levied upon by
virtue of a Warrant of attachment, includes any interest in
real property, either vested or not vested, which is capable
of being aliened by the defendant.

§ 646. Under a Warrant of attachment against a foreign
corporation, other than a corporation created by or under
the laws of the United States, the sheriff may levy upon

the sum remaining unpaid upon a subscription to the capi- ‘

tal stock of the corporation, made by a person Within the
county; or upon one or more shares of stock therein, he-d
by such a person, or transferred by him, for the purpose of
avoiding payment thereof.

§ 647. The rights or shares which the defendant has in
the stock of an association or corporation, together with the
interest and profits thereon, may be levied upon; and the
sheriff ’s certificate of the sale thereof entitles the purchaser

to the same rights and privileges, With respect thereto,
which the defendant had, When they were so attached.

§ 648. The attachment may also be levied upon a cause
of action arising upon contract; including a bond, promissory
note, or other instrument for the payment of money only,
in terms negotiable, or payable to the bearer or holder
thereof, Whether past due, or yet to become due, executed
by a foreign or domestic government, state, county, public
officer, association, municipal or other corporation, or by a
private person, either Within or Without the State; which
belongs to the defendant, and is found within the county.
The levy of the attachment thereupon is deemed a levy
upon, and a seizure and attachment of, the debt represented
thereby.

§ 649. A levy under a Warrant of attachment must be
made as follows:

1. Upon real property, by filing with the clerk of the
county, where it is situated, a notice of the attachment,
stating the names of the parties to the action, the amount
of the plaintifff’s claim, as stated in the warrant, and a
description of the particular property levied upon. The
notice must be subscribed by the plaintifff ’s attorney, adding

his residence, and must be recorded and indexefi by the
(3131-k,in the same book, in like manner, and With like effect,

as a notice of the pendency of an action. _

2. Upon personal property, capable of manual dehvery,
including a bond, promissory note, or other mstrument.for
the payment of money, by taking the same mto the B116l‘15’8

actual custody. Tied
3. Upon other personal P1‘0P31'tY:bY193Vm8 3 cem

copy of the Warrant, and\a\I10tiC3 showing th9 _Prf’Pert’Y
the same; or, 1f 1t con   
    

dent, or other head of the association or corpor
secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof.

§ 650. Upon the application of a sheriff, hol
rant of attachment, the president or other head
ciation or corporation, or the secretary, cashier, or
agent thereof, or a debtor of the defendant, or

his hand, specifying the rights or number of shares of t
defendant, in the stock of the association or corporation,
with all dividends declared, or encumbrances thereon; or
the amount, nature, and description of the property, held
for the benent of the defendant, or of the defendant’s interest in property so held, or of the debt or demand owing to
the defendant, as the case requires.

§ 651. If a person, to whom application is made, as pre,scribed in the last section, refuses to give such a certificate;
or if it is made to appear, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of
the court, or a judge thereof, or the county judge of the
county to which the warrant is issued, that there is reason
to suspect that a certificate given by him is untrue, or that
it fails fully to set forth the facts, required to be shown

thereby; the court or judge may make an order, directing
him to attend, at a specified time, and at a place within the
county of his residence, and submit to an examination under
oath, concerning the same. The order may, in the discretion
of the court or judge, direct an appearance before a referee
named therein.

§ 652. Except as otherwise prescribed in the next section,
the owner or master of a vessel, on board of which goods
of a defendant, against whom a warrant of attachment is
issued, have been shipped for transportation, without reshipment or transshipment in the State, to a port or place without the State, may transport and deliver them according to
their destination, notwithstanding the Warrant; unless the
plaintifff, his agent or attorney, executes a bond, to the owner
or the master of the vessel, conditioned to pay him all
expenses, damages, and charges, which may be incurred by
him, or to which he may be subjected, for unlading the
goods from the vessel, and for all necessary detention of the
vessel, for that purpose. The bond must be approved, with
respect to its form, the amount of the penalty, and the
sufficiency of the sureties, by a judge of the court, or the
county judge of the county wherein the vessel is situated, or,
in the city and county of N ew-York, by a judge of the
court of common pleas for that city and county.

§ 653. The last section does not apply, where the owner
or master, before the shipment of the goods, had actual
information of the granting of the warrant, or where he has,
in any wise, connived at, or been privy to, the shipment
thereof, for the purpose of screening them from legal process, or of hindering, delaying, or defrauding creditors.

§ 654. The sheriff must, immediately after levying under
a warrant of attachment, make, with the assistance of two
disinterested freeholders, a description of the real property,
and a just and true inventory of the personal property, upon

which it was levied, and of the hooks, vouchers, and other
papers taken into his custody, stating therein the estimated
value of each parcel of real property attached, or of the
interest of the defendant therein, and of each article of personal property, enumerating such of the latter as are perishable. The inventory must be signed by the sheriff and the
appraisers; and must, Within hve days after the levy, be
filed in the office of the clerk of the county, where the property is attached. '

§ 655. The sheriff must, subject to the direction of the
court or judge, collect and receive all debts, effects, and
things in action, attached by him. He may maintain any
action or special proceeding, in his own -name, or in the
name of the defendant, which is necessary, for that purpose,
or to reduce to his actual possession an article of personal
property, capable of manual delivery, but of which he has
been unable to obtain possession. And he may discontinue
such an action or special proceeding, at such time and on
such terms, as the court or judge directs.

§ 656. If property attached, other than a vessel, is perishable, the court or judge may, by an order, made with or
without notice, as the urgency of the case, in his opinion,
requires, direct the sheriff to sell it at public auction; and
thereupon the sheriff must sell it accordingly. The order
directing the sale must prescribe the time, place, and notice
thereof, and how notice shall be given. The sheriff must
retain in his hands the proceeds of the sale, after deducting
his expenses, as allowed by the court or judge.

§ 657. If goods or effects, other than a vessel, attached
as the property of the defendant, are claimed by or in
behalf of another person, as his property, the sheriff may,
in his discretion, empanel a jury to try the validity of the
claim.

§ 658. If, by their inquisition, the jury find the property 3
of the goods or effects to be in the claimant, the sheriff must j

forthwith deliver them to him or his agent; unless the
plaintifff gives an undertaking, with suiiicient sureties, to
indemnify the sheriff for the detention thereof. If the
undertaking is given, the sheriff must detain the goods or
effects, as the property of the defendant.

§ 659. If the property is found to be in the defendant, M
the hnding does not prejudice the right of the claimant to 2
bring an action, to recover the goods or effects, or the value 1

thereof.

§ 660. Where a vessel, belonging to a port or place in the
United States, or a share or interest therein, is attached,
the court or judge, on the application, within thirty days
thereafter, of a person claiming title thereto, or of his agent,
must appoint three indiiferent persons to make a valuation
thereof.

§ 661. A valuation of a vessel, or of a share or interest
therein, made as prescribed in this article, must be in writing, and subscribed by the appraisers; each of whom must
take and subscribe an affidavit, annexed thereto, to the
effect, that the valuation was, in all respects, just and fair,
and that the value of the vessel, share, or interest, is truly
stated therein, according to the deponent’s belief. The
valuation must be immediately returned to the court or
judge; and, after an undertaking is given, or after the expiration of the time to give an undertaking, it must be delivered to the sheriff.

§ 662. Within two days after the valuation is returned, the a
claimant or his agent may execute an undertaking to the3

sheriff, with sufficient sureties, approved by the court or
judge, who must justify in twice the appraised value, to the
effect, that, in an action to be brought on the undertaking,

the claimant will establish that he was the owner of the vessel, share, or interest, at the time of the levy thereupon ; and
that, in case of his failure to do so, he will pay the amount of
the valuation, with interest from the date of the undertaking, to the sheriff ; or, if the warrant is vacated or annulled,
to the defendant, or his personal representative.

§ 663. Upon such an undertaking being executed and
delivered to the sheriff, the court or judge must make an
order, directing the vessel or share to be discharged from
the attachment. Thereupon the sheriff must discharge the
same accordingly.

§ 664. The court or judge may, upon the application of
either party, at any time before the warrant is vacated or
annulled, direct the sheriff to commence an action upon the
undertaking, upon such terms and conditions, and under
such regulations, between him and the applicant, as it or he
deems just. And if the warrant of attachment is vacated
or annulled, the defendant in the attachment, his assignee
or personal representative, may commence and maintain an
action upon the undertaking, or may be substituted, in

place of the sheriff, in an action pending thereon.

§ 665. In such an action, the claimant may show, in bar
of a recovery, that he was the owner of the vessel, share, or
interest, at the time when it was attached. If judgment
passes against him, the plaintifff is entitled to recover the
amount of the valuation, with interest from the date of the
undertaking. '

§ 666. Where a foreign vessel, or a share or interest
therein, is attached, it must be valued, as prescribed in sections 660 and 661 of this act, upon the application of a
person, who makes affidavit, to the effect that he is the
owner thereof, or that he is the agent of a person, naming
him and his residence, whom he believes to be the owner of
the vessel, share, or interest attached.

§ 667. Notice of the application must be given to the
plaintifff, as the court or judge deems reasonable.

§ 668. Within three days after the valuation is returned,
the plaintifff must give, to the person in whose behalf the
claim is made, an undertaking, with sufficient sureties,
approved by the court or judge, who must justify in twice
the appraised value, to the effect that they will pay such
damages as may be recovered for seizing the vessel, share,
or interest, in an action brought against the sheriff, or the
plaintifff in the attachment, within three months from the
approval of the undertaking, if it appears therein that the

vessel, share, or , interest belonged, at the time of attach-r

ing it, to the person in whose behalf the claim is made.

§ 669. Unless such an undertaking is given, the court or
judge must grant an order discharging the vessel, share, or
interest so claimed, from the attachment; whereupon the
sheriff must discharge the same accordingly.

§ 670. If, after such an undertaking is given by the
plaintifff, the warrant is vacated or annulled, or the attachment is discharged as to the vessel, share, or interest, the
defendant or his agent is entitled to claim the same, or

the proceeds thereof; if it has been sold, only upon his
showing, to the satisfaction of the court or judge, that the
undertaking has been discharged ; or giving to the plaintifff
an undertaking, with suiiicient sureties, approved by the
court or judge, who must justify in twice the appraised
value, to the ezlfect, that they will indemnify the plaintifff

against all charges and expenses, in consequence of the undertaking.

§ 671. If the undertaking of the plaintifff is not dis-A
charged, or he is not indemnified, as prescribed in this article, within one month after the defendant becomes
entitled to claim the vessel, share, or interest, as so prescribed, it may be sold by the sheriff, in whose custody it
is, upon an order of the court or judge; and the proceeds
of the sale must be paid to the persons who executed the
undertaking, for their indemnity.

§ 672. If a claim is not made, by or in behalf of an owner
of a domestic vessel, or of a share or interest therein, Within
thirty days after it is attached, or if the proper undertaking
is not executed by the claimant; or if a claim is not made,
Within that time, by or in behalf of the owner of a foreign
vessel, or of a share or interest therein; the vessel, share, or
interest, may be sold by the sheriff, under an order of the
court‘ or judge, upon the application of the plaintifff, if, in
the opinion of the court or judge, a sale is necessary.

§ 673. Where a share or interest in a vessel, foreign or
domestic, is attached, if the proper claim to it is not made,
by or in behalf of an owner thereof, within thirty days
thereafter, it may be sold by the sheriff, under an order of

the court or judge, upon the application of a joint owner, or
his agent.

§ 674. The sheriff must keep the property attached by
him, or the proceeds of property sold, or of a demand collected by him, to answer any judgment that may be obtained
against the defendant in the action, including a judgment
upon an appeal taken therein.

§ 675. But the court, upon the application of either
party to the action, may direct the sheriff, either before or
after the expiration of his term of office, to pay into court
the proceeds of a demand collected or property sold; or to
deposit them in a designated bank or trust company, to be
drawn out only upon the order of the court.

§ 676. Where the proceeds of the property sold, and of the
demands collected by the sheriff, equal or exceed the amount

of the p1aintiii"s demand, with the costs and expenses, and
of all other Warrants of attachment or executions in the
sheriff ’s hands, chargeable upon the same; the court, or the
judge who granted the warrant, upon the application \of the
defendant, or of an assignee of, or purchaser from the defendant, and upon notice to the plaintifff, and the plaintifffs in
the other Warrants or executions, may, at any time during
the pendency of the action, make an order, directing the
sheriff to pay over the surplus to the applicant, and to
release from the attachment the remaining real and personal property attached.

§ 677. The plaintifff, by leave of the court or judge, procured as prescribed in the next section, may bring and
maintain, in the name of himself and the sheriff jointly,
by his own attorney, and at his own expense, any action
Which, by the provisions of this title, may be brought by
the sheriff, to recover property attached, or the value thereof,
or a demand attached, or upon an undertaking given as
prescribed in this title, by a person other than the plaintifff.
The sheriff must receive the proceeds of such an action,
but he is not liable for the costs or expenses thereof. Costs

may be awarded, in such an action, against the plaintifff in
the warrant, but not against the sheriii

§ 678. The court or judge must grant leave to bring such
an action, Where it appears, that due notice of the application therefore has been given to the sheriff; but, before doing
so, the court or judge may require that notice of the application be given to the plaintifff, in any other Warrant
against the same defendant. And such terms, conditions,
and regulations may be imposed, in the order granting
leave, as the court or judge thinks proper, for the due protection of the rights and interests of all persons, interested
in the disposition of the proceeds of the action.

§ 679. Leave may, in like manner and with like effect,

be granted to the plaintifff in the warrant, to be joined with .

the sheriff, in an action brought by the sheriff, in a case
Where he might have procured leave to bring the action, as
prescribed in the last two sections. Upon an application
therefore, the court or judge may, in a proper case, require
the plaintifff to provide for the expenses in the action,
already incurred by the sheriff. The application must be
denied, in case of an unreasonable delay in making it; or
Where an application was made, before the action Was
brought, and the plaintifff neglected or refused, Without a
good excuse therefore, to comply with the terms, conditions
or regulations, then imposed.

§ 680. The court or judge may, upon the application of
the sheriff, or of the defendant in the Warrant, during the
pendency of an action, brought as prescribed in the last
three sections, direct as to the conduct, discontinuance or
settlement of the same, and as to the application or disposition of the money or property recovered therein, as justice

requires.

§ 681. Upon the application of either party, and proof of
the neglect of the sheriff, the court or judge may, by order,
require the sheriff to return an inventory. Disobedience to
such an order may be punished, as a contempt of the court.

ARTICLE THIRD.

Vacurnm on nomrrme um WARRANT; mscmmems rm: A1-racxnunrr.

682. Motion to vacate or modify warrant, or increase security.
683. How motion must be made: opposing it by new proofs.
684, 685. Questions of fact arising on the motion.

686. When prior motion not to prejudice subsequent motion.
687. Defendant may apply for discharge of attachment.

688. Undertaking to be given. '

689. Application by one of several defendants.

690. Sureties to justify if required.

691. Sheriff may retain property until justification.

692. Foregoing provisions applicable to vessels.

698. Partners may apply to discharge attachment.

694. Undertaking to be given.

695. Court or judge may ascertain value.

696. When plaintiii‘ entitled to notice of any application, etc.

§ 682. The defendant, or a person who has acquired alien
upon, or interest in, his property, after it was attached, may,
at any time before the actual application of the attached
property, or the proceeds thereof, to the payment of a judgment recovered in the action, apply to vacate or modify the
warrant, or to increase the security, given by the plaintifff, or
for one or more of those forms of relief, together, or in the
alternative. If the application is for two or more of those
forms of relief, it must be regarded, for the purposes contemplated by the next four sections, as so many separate
motions.

§ 683. An application, specified in the last section, may
be founded only upon the papers upon which the warrant
was granted; in which case, it must be made to the court,
or, if the warrant was granted‘ by a judge out of court,
to the same judge, in court or out of court, and with or
without notice, as he deems proper. Or it may be founded
upon proof, by affidavit, on the part of the defendant; in
which case, it must be made to the court, or, if the warrant
was granted by a judge out of court, to any judge of the
court, upon notice; and it may be opposed by new proof,
by affidavit, on the part of the plaintifff, tending to sustain
any ground for the attachment, recited in the Warrant, and
no other, unless the defendant relies upon a discharge in
bankruptcy, _or upon a discharge or exoneration, granted in
insolvent proceedings; in which case, the plaintifff may show
any matter, in avoidance thereof, which he might show upon

the trial.

§ 684. Upon the hearing of such an application, the
court or judge must assume the truth of each allegation of
the complaint, respecting which there is conflicting evidence; «
although a conflict of evidence may be taken into consideration, for the purpose of fixing the amount of the security
to be given by the plaintidl

§ 685. The truth of every other allegation of fact, arising
upon the application, must be determined, as a question of
fact, by the court or judge. But the hearing may be
adjourned, to enable the parties to procure further evidence.
either by affidavit, or by deposition taken before a referee,
appointed for that purpose, by the court or judge.

§ 686. The granting or denial of such an application,
founded only upon the papers upon which the warrant of
attachment was granted, does not prejudice a subsequent

application, seasonably made, founded upon proof, by affidavit, on the part of the defendant: and the granting or denial
of either application does not prejudice a subsequent application, seasonably made, founded upon the failure of a complaint, which had not been made at the time of the former
application, to set forth a cause of action, sufficient to entitle
the plaintifff to the Warrant of attachment, upon any ground
recited therein.

§ 687. The defendant may, at any time after he has
appeared in the action, and before final judgment, apply to
the judge who granted the warrant, or to the court, for an
order to discharge the attachment, as to the whole or a part
of the property attached.

§ 688. Upon such an application, a sole defendant must
give an undertaking, with at least two sufficient sureties, to
the effect that the sureties Will, on demand, pay to the plaintifff the amount of any judgment which may be recovered
in the action against the defendant, not exceeding a sum
specified in the undertaking, with interest. The sum so
specified must be at least equal to the amount of the plaintifff’s demand, as specified in his affidavit; or, at the option
of the defendant, equal to the appraised value, according to
the inventory, of the property attached; or, if the application is to discharge the attachment, as to a part only of the
property attached, to the appraised value of that portion.

§ 689. Where there are two or more defendants, and an
application is made, as prescribed in the last two sections, by
one or more, but not by all of them, the undertaking must
provide for the payment of any judgment, which may be
recovered against any of the defendants in the action,

unless the applicant makes proof, by affidavit, to the satis-‘

faction of the court or judge, that the property, with respect
to which the application is made, belongs to him separately;
in which case, the undertaking must provide for the payment of any judgment which may be recovered in the action
against the applicant, either alone, or jointly with any other
defendant. Where an application is made, as prescribed in
this section, at least two days notice thereof, with a copy of
the aiiidavit, must be served upon the plaintifff’s attorney,
who may oppose the application by proof, by aiiidavit, that
one or more of the other defendants own, or have an interest
in the property.

§ 690. An undertaking, given  prescribed in the last

two sections, must be forthwith filed with the clerk of the

county, where the action is triable. A copy thereof, with
a notice of the filing, must be forthwith served upon the

plaintifff ’s attorney; who may, within three days thereafter,‘
give notice to the sheriff, that he excepts to the suiiiciency

of the sureties. Thereupon the sureties must justify, upon
the like notice, and in like manner, as bail upon an arrest;
or a new undertaking must be given, with new sureties,
who must justify in like manner. If the plaintifff does not
except, as prescribed in this section, he is deemed to have
waived all objection to the sureties.

§ 691. The sheriff is responsible for the sufficiency of the
sureties; and he may retain possession of the property

attached, and the proceeds thereof, until the objection to,

them is waived, as prescribed in the last section, or they, or
the new sureties, justify.

§ 692. The last five sections are applicable, Where a vessel, or a share or interest therein, is attached. If it is necessary, to enable the defendant to discharge the attachment,
the court or judge may, by order, stay any proceeding
specified in article second of this title, or extend the time
to do any act therein specified.

§ 693. If a Warrant of attachment is levied upon the
interest of one or more partners, in goods or chattels of a
partnership, the other partners, who are not defendants in
the action, or any of them, may, at any time before final
judgment, apply to the judge who granted the Warrant, or
to the court, upon an affidavit showing the facts, for an
order to discharge the attachment, as to that interest.

§ 694. Upon such an application, the applicant must give
an undertaking, with at least two suiiicient sureties, to the
effect that the sureties will pay to the sheriff, on demand, the
amount of any judgment, which may be recovered against
the partner Who is defendant in the action; or which may
be recovered against him, in any other action, wherein the
other partners are not defendants, and wherein a Warrant of
attachment, or an execution, may come to the sheriff’s hands,
at any time before the Warrant of attachment, which was so
levied, is vacated or annulled; not exceeding a sum, specified in the undertaking, which must not be less than the
value of the interest of the defendant, in the goods or chattels seized upon the levy, as fixed by the court or judge.

§ 695. For the purpose of fixmg the sum, or determining
the suiliciency of the sureties, the court or judge may
receive affidavits or oral testimony, or may direct 9. reference.

§ 696. The court or judge may direct, that the plaintifff
have notice of an application for a discharge of property,
as prescribed in this article, or of the hearing under an order

of reference, made as prescribed in the last section; and that,
if the applicant does not appear, where notice has been given,
the application be dismissed or denied. '

ARTICLE FOURTH.

Bmmanons wnmun THERE ARE Two on MORE WABRANT8 AGAINST run: sum
DEFENDANT.

697. Preferences of two or more warrants.

698. Rule as to levy imder a junior warrant.

699. Subsequent warrants to be under control of judge, who issued nrst
warrant.

700. The last section qualified.

701. Undertaking, by junior attaching creditor, to prevent release of foreign
vessel.

702. Rule as to subsequent attachment of foreign vessel.

703. Rights of junior plaintifff in action by senior plaintifff and sheriff jointly.

704. Junior plaintiE may be allowed to commence action jointly with sheriff

705. Rights of third and other subsequent attaching creditors.

§ 697. Where two or more warrants of attachment, against
the same defendant, are delivered to the sheriff of the same
county, to be executed, their respective preferences, and the
rules, Where a levy, or a levy and sale, have been made
under a junior warrant, are the same, as where two or more

executions, against the property of the same defendant, are
delivered to the sheriff of the same county, to be executed.

§ 698. Where a domestic vessel, or a share or interest
therein, has been attached, and afterwards released, as prescribed in this title; or where the personal property of a
partnership, of which the defendant was a member, has been
attached, and the attachment afterwards discharged, upon
the application of another partner, as prescribed in this title;
another warrant, against the same defendant, shall not be
levied on the same property, by the sheriff of the same or of
any other county, until after the first warrant has been
vacated or annulled. But, except as thus prescribed, where a
second warrant, against the same defendant, is delivered to
the same sheriff, he must execute it, by a levy upon property
within his county, and he must thereupon take the same
proceedings, as if the levy was made under the first warrant.

§ 699. If, after a Warrant of attachment, granted by a
judge out of court, has been placed in the hands of the
sheriff for execution, and before it has been vacated or
annulled, another warrant of attachment against the same
defendant, granted by the court, or by another judge, is
placed in the hands of the sheriff of the same county, the
judge granting the first warrant controls the subsequent warrant, and the proceedings thereunder, subject to the provisions of section 643 of this act; and, for that purpose, he is
deemed to be the judge granting the same, within the meaning of this title. And Where Warrants have been granted

in different actions, a motion, or other proceeding, relating
to the execution of either of them, which may be made or

taken, by or before the court, as prescribed in this title,
must be made or taken in the action, in which the first warrant was granted, except as prescribed in the next section.

§ 700. The last section does not apply to an application
to vacate or modify either of the warrants of attachment,
which must be made, as if no other warrant of attachment
had been granted. After the first warrant is vacated or
annulled, the provisions of the last section apply to the
warrant next in order, and to the judge who granted the

881119.

§ 701. Where a foreign vessel, or a share or interest therein,
has been attached and valued, as prescribed in article second
of this title, and the plaintifff, in the first Warrant of attachment, fails to give an undertaking to prevent the release
thereof, the court or judge may grant to the plaintifff in a
second warrant, then in the sheriff ’s hands for execution, an
extension, of not more than three days thereafter, Within
Which to furnish an undertaking, in all respects like the one
to be furnished by the first plaintifff. And if he furnishes
it, Within that time, he has the same rights and privileges,
and is subject to the same duties and liabilities, with
respect to the vessel and its proceeds, and the subsequent
proceedings relating thereto, as if his was the first warrant.

§ 702. If a foreign vessel, or a share or interest therein,
has been attached, and afterwards released, by reason of the A
failure of the plaintifff, in the first or the second warrant,
to give an undertaking to prevent the release, it shall not
be again attached, under awarrant against the same defendant, which had been delivered to the sheriff of the same
county, before the expiration of the time Within which the
undertaking should have been furnished. But it may be
again attached, under a subsequent warrant against the same
defendant; in which case, the plaintifff therein, and the plaintifff in each Warrant subsequently delivered to the sheriff,
have the same rights, and privileges, and are subject to the
same duties and liabilities, with respect to the vessel and its
proceeds, and the subsequent proceedings relating thereto,

as if the Warrant, under which it was attended, was the first
Warrant.

§ 703. Where the plaintifff in a Warrant of attachment
has commenced an action, in the name of himself and the
sheriff jointly, as prescribed in this title, a plaintifff in a
junior warrant may apply to the court or judge, to direct as
to the conduct, discontinuance, or settlement of the same, or
to impose terms, conditions, and regulations as to the continuance thereof, in the interest of the applicant; and such
order may be made thereupon, as justice requires. If the
first Warrant is vacated, or the attachment thereunder is
released or discharged, Without affecting the cause of action
prosecuted by the plaintifff therein and the sheriff jointly,
the plaintifff in the Warrant next in order, may, upon his
own application, be substituted as joint plaintifff with the
sheriff, by an order, made as upon an application for leave
to bring such an action. ’

§ 704. A plaintifff in a second Warrant may apply to
the court or judge, upon notice to the plaintifff in the first
warrant, and to the sheriff, for leave to bring and maintain,
in the name of himself and the sheriff jointly, any action,
which might be brought in the name of the senior plaintifff

and the sheriff. If it appears that the plaintifff in the first
warrant neglects or refuses to be joined with the sheriff in
such an action, or to comply with the terms, conditions, and
regulations, imposed, either upon granting him an order for
that purpose, or upon the hearing of an application, made
as prescribed in this section, the court or judge may grant
to the plaintifff in the second warrant, leave to bring and
maintain such an action, in the name of himself and the
sheriff jointly, with like effect, as if his was the first warrant. ‘

§ 705. Where there are more than two warrants of
attachment, against the same defendant, the plaintifffs in
the third and each subsequent warrant have, according to
their respective priorities, the same rights and privileges, as
against the plaintifffs in all senior warrants, which the plaintifff in the second Warrant has, as against the plaintifff in
the first, and are subject to the same duties and liabilities;
except that a second extension of the time, within which to
furnish an undertaking to prevent the release of a foreign
vessel, or a share or interest therein, shall not be granted.
And the plaintifffs in two or more junior warrants of attachment, may, by agreement among themselves, take jointly,
and for their common benefit, any proceeding, permitted by
this title to be taken, by the plaintifff in a second or subsequent warrant of attachment; provided that it does not
interfere with the preferential or other right of an intermediate plaintifff.

ARTICLE FIFTH.

Pnocnnnmos AFTER Junamnrr; Rrerrrs or Pnrrms AND Dorms or run
Smrnrrr, an-rnn THE Wmnanr rs vacurnn on amrnnnnn, on was AT'l‘AOHnnnrr nrscmmenn.

706. Execution to issue to sheriff who has levied.

707. Only attached property bound, when summons not personally served.
708. Judgment in the principal action; how satisfied.

709. When attachment discharged, etc., property to be restored to defendant
710. Additional provision for his relief.

711. Cancelling notice attaching real property.

712. When sheriff to return warrant and his proceedings.

§ 706. Where a levy, under a Warrant of attachment in an
action, has been made, an execution against property, upon
a final judgment in favor of the plaintiff therein, recovered
after the expiration of the term of oilice of the sheriff, who
made the levy, must nevertheless be directed to and executed by that sheriff, unless another person is designated
by law to complete the unfinished business pertaining to his
office; or, in that case, to the person so designated.

§ 707. Where the summons was served upon the defendant, Without the State, otherwise than personally, pursuant
to an order obtained for that purp'ose, as prescribed in chapter fifth of this act, and he has not appeared in the
action, the judgment can be enforced only against the property which has been levied upon, under the Warrant of
attachment, at the time when it is entered. But this section does not declare the effect of such a judgment, with
respect to the application of any statute of limitation.

§ 708. Where an. execution against property is issued
upon a judgment for the plaintifff, in an action in which a
warrant of attachment has been levied, the sheriff must
satisfy it, as follows:

1. He must pay over to the plaintifff the money attached
by him, or in his hands, as the proceeds of the sale of perishable property, or of a vessel, or a share or interest therein,
sold by him, or of debts or other things in action collected
by him; or so much thereof as is necessary to satisfy the
judgment.

2. If it is insuilicient to satisfy the judgment, he must
sell, under the execution, the other personal property attached, or so much thereof as is necessary; including rights
or shares in the stock of an association or corporation, or a
bond or other instrument for the payment of money, executed
and issued, with interest coupons annexed, by a government,
state, county, public officer, or municipal or other corporation. Which is in terms negotiable, or payable to the bearer
or holder, the principal whereof is not then payable; but

not including any other debt or thing in action. If the

proceeds of that property are in sufficient to satisfy the judgment, and -the execution requires him to satisfy it out of
any other personal property of the defendant, he must sell
the personal property, upon which he has levied by virtue
of the execution. If the proceeds of the personal property,
applicable to the execution, are insufficient to satisfy the
judgment, the sheriff must sell, under the execution, all the
right, title, and interest, which the defendant had in the
real property attached, at the time when the notice was
filed, or at any time afterwards, before resorting to any
other real property. '

3. If personal property attached, belonging to the defendant, has passed out of the hands of the sheriff, without
having been sold or converted into money, and the attach.
ment has not been discharged, as to that property, he must,
if practicable, regain possession thereof; and, for that purpose, he has all the authority which he had, to seize the
same under the warrant. A person, who willfully conceals
or withholds such property from him, is liable to double
damages, at the suit of the party aggrieved.

4. Until the judgment is paid, he may collect the debts
and other things in action attached, and prosecute a bond or
undertaking, which he has taken in the course of the proceedings, and apply the proceeds thereof to the payment of
the judgment.

5. Where six months have expired, since the rendering of
the judgment, the court, upon the petition of the plaintifff,
accompanied with an aliidavit, specifying fully all the proceedings of the sheriff, since the levy under the warrant, the.
property attached, and the disposition thereof; and the aifi-u
davit of the sheriff, showing that he has used diligence, in
endeavoring to collect the debts and other things in action
attached, and that a portion thereof remains uncollected;
may direct the sheriff to sell the remaining portion, upon
such terms, and in such manner, as it thinks proper. Notice
of the application must be given to the defendant’s attorney,
if the defendant appeared in the action. If the summons
was not personally served on the defendant. and he did not

appear, the court may direct service of notice, as it thinks
proper; or may grant the application without notice.

§ 709. Where a warrant of attachment is vacated, or annulled, or an attachment is discharged, upon the application
of the defendant, the sheriff must, except in a case where it
is otherwise specially prescribed by law, deliver over to the
defendant, or to the person entitled thereto, as the defendant’s representative, upon reasonable demand, and upon
payment of all costs, charges, and expenses, legally chargeable by the sheriff, all the attached personal property
remaining in his hands, or that portion thereof, as to which
the attachment is discharged, or the proceeds thereof, if it

has been sold by him.

§ 710. Where the sheriff' is required, by this title, to
deliver attached property, or the proceeds thereof, to the
defendant, he must also deliver to him, unless otherwise
specially directed by the court or judge, all books of
account, vouchers, evidences of debt, muniments of title,
or other papers, relating to the property, either real or
personal, or to its proceeds; together with all bonds or
undertakings, relating thereto, which he has taken in the
course of the proceedings, and which have not been fully
satisfied ; except undertakings, given by the defendant, upon
the discharge of property. He must also deliver a written
assignment, duly acknowledged, of each bond or undertaking, and of each other instrument, to which the defendant is
thus entitled, an assignment of which is necessary to perfect
or protect the defendant’s title thereto. -The defendant
must also, but upon '_his own application only, be substituted in place of the sheriff, or the sheriff and the plaintifff
jointly, in an action brought as prescribed in this title ; but
the court or judge may impose, as a condition of granting
the order of substitution, such terms as justice requires,
with respect to indemnity and payment of expenses. The
defendant’s rights, with respect to property attached and
not disposed of, and a bond, undertaking, or other instrument, to which he is thus entitled, are the same as those of
the sheriff, while the Warrant was still in force, except where
his rights are specially defined or regulated by law.

§ 711. At any time after the warrant of attachment has
been vacated or annulled, or the attachment has been discharged as to real property attached, the court may, in its
discretion, upon the application of any person aggrieved,
and upon such notice as it deems just, direct, that a notice,
filed for the purpose of attaching the property, be cancelled
of record, by the clerk of the county where it is filed and
recorded. The cancellation must be made by a note, to that
effect, on the margin of the record, referring to the order;

and, unless the order is entered in the same clerk’s office, a

certified copy thereof must, at the same time, be filed therein.

§ 712. Where a warrant of attachment has been vacated
or annulled, the sheriff must forthwith file, in the clerk’s
office, the warrant, with a return of his proceedings thereon.
Upon the application of either party, and proof of the
sheriff’s neglect, the court may direct him so to do, forthwith, or within a specified time. 1

TITLE IV.

Other provisional remedies ,' general and miscellaneous pro
0. . O _

An'rIcLn 1. Receivers.
2. Deposit, delivery, or conveyance of property.
3. General and miscellaneous provisions.

ARTICLE FIRST.

RECEIVERS.

713. Receiver; when appointed.
714. Notice of application.

715. Security. .
716. Certain receivers may hold real property.

§ 713. In addition to the cases, where the appointment
of a receiver is specially provided for by law, a receiver of
property, which is the subject of an action, in the supreme
court, a superior city court, or a county court, may be appointed by the court, in either of the following cases: .

1. Before final judgment, on the application of a party
who establishes an apparent right to, or interest in, the
property, where it is in the possession of an adverse party,
and there is danger that it will be removed beyond the jurisdiction of the court, or lost, materially injured, or destroyed.

2. By or after the final judgment, to carry the judgment
into effect, or to dispose of the property, according to its
directions.

3. After final judgment, to preserve the property, during
the pendency of an appeal.

The word, “ property,” as used in this section, includes the
rents, profits, or other income, and the increase, of real or
personal property.

§ 714. Notice of an application, for the appointment of a 1
receiver, in an action, must be given to the adverse party, 7
unless he has failed to appear "in the action, and the time
limited for his appearance has expired.

§ 715. A receiver, appointed in an action or special proceeding, must, before entering upon his duties, execute and
file with the proper clerk, a bond, with at least two suEicient sureties, in a penalty fixed, and to an obligee designated by the court, judge, or referee, making the appointment; conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties as
receiver. And the court; or, where the order was made out
of court, the judge making the order, by or pursuant to
which the receiver was appointed; or his successor in office;
or, where the office is vacant, or the judge is absent from the
State, or unable to act, or disqualified from acting, the
supreme court; may, at any time, remove the receiver, or
direct him to give a new bond, with new sureties, with the
like condition. But this section does not apply to a case,

Where special provision is made by law, for the security to
be given by a receiver, or for increasing the same, or for
removing a receiver.

§ 716. A receiver, appointed by or pursuant to an order
or a judgment, in an action in the supreme court, a superior

i city court, or a county court, or in a special proceeding for

the voluntary dissolution of a corporation, may take and
hold real property, upon such trusts and for such purposes
as the court directs, subject to the direction of the court,
from time to time, respecting the disposition thereof.

ARTICLE SECOND.

Dnrosrr, Dnzmvnnr. on Coxvmnmcm or Pnornrvrv.
717. Court may order a deposit or delivery of property in certain cases.
718. When sherid‘ may take and convey, etc., property.

§ 717. Where it is admitted, by the pleading or examinai tion of a party, that he has, in his possession or under his

control, money, or other personal property capable of delivery, Which, being the subject of the action or special proceeding, is held by him as trustee for another party, or
which belongs to another party, the court may, in its discretion, grant an order, upon notice, that it be paid into, or
deposited in court, or delivered to that party, with or Without security, subject to the further direction of the court.

§ 718. Where the court has directed a deposit or delivery,
as prescribed in the last section; or Where a judgment
directs a party to make a deposit or delivery, or to convey
real property; if the direction is disobeyed, the court,
besides punishing the disobedience as a contempt, may, by
order, require the sheriff to take, and deposit or deliver
the money or other personal property, or to convey the real
property, in conformity with the direction of the court.

ARTICLE THIRD.

Gmmaar. um msommurnous PROTIBIONS.

719. Arrest, injunction, and attachment; when not to be granted together.
720. Motions relating to provisional remedies to be decided in twenty days.

§ 719. Where an application for an order of arrest, an
injunction, and a warrant of attachment, or two of them, is
made, in the same action, against the same defendant; and
it satisfactorily appears, that, under the particular circumstances of the case, two or all of them are not necessary for
the plaintifffs security, the court or judge may, in its or his
discretion, require the plaintifff to elect between them. But
this section does not apply to an action specified in subdivision third of section 549, or in section 637 of this act.

§ 720. Where an application is made, to obtain, vacate,
modify, or set aside an order of arrest, injunction order, or
warrant of attachment, the court or judge must finally
decide the same, within twenty days after it is submitted

a for decision.

CHAPTER VIII.

MISCELLANEOUS IN TERLOCUTORY PROCEEDINGS,
AND REGULATIONS OF PRACTICE.

TITLE I. — MrsTAKEs, omssIoNs, DE1rE(ns, AND IEEEeULAErr1Es.

TITLE II.—TENDEE, AND OTHER OFFERS AND EEQUEsTs To TEE
ADvEEsE PARTY.

TITLE III. — PAYMENT or noNEY INTO ooUE'r, AND OAEE AND DrePOSITION THEREOF.

TITLE IV. —- PROCEEDINGS UPON THE DEATH on DrsAEn.rrY or A
PARTY, on THE TE.ANsEEE or me 1NTEEEsT.

TITLE V. — MoTroNs AND ORDERS GENERALLY.

TITLE VI. — - MrsoELLANEoUs rE.AoT1oE EEoULATIoNs.

TITLE I.
Mistakes, omissions, defects, and irregula/rities.

SEO. 721. Defects cured by verdict, etc., and by judgment.

722. Such defects to be supplied.

723. Amendments by the court; disregarding immaterial errors, etc.

724. Relief against omissions, etc.; amendments to conform proceedings.
725. Returns by oiiicers, etc.

726. Papers lost or withheld; how supplied.

727. Order of court; when necesary to amend.

728. Disregarding defects in affidavits.

729. Certain bonds, etc., when sufficient.

730. Amending defects in bonds, etc.

§ 721. In a court of record, Where a verdict, report, or
decision has been rendered, the judgment shall not be
stayed; nor shall a judgment be reversed, impaired, or
affected; by reason of either of the following imperfections,
omissions, defects, matters, or things, in the process, pleadings, or other proceedings:

1. For want of a summons, or other writ.

2. For any -fault or defect in process; or for misconceiving a process, or awarding it to a wrong officer.

3. For an imperfect or insumcient return of a sheriff or
other officer; or because an officer has not subscribed a
return, actually made by him.

4. For a variance between the summons and complaint.

5. For a mispleading, insumcient pleading, or jeofail.

6. For want of a warrant of attorney by either party.

7. For the appearance, by attorney, of an infant party, if
the verdict, report, or decision, or the judgment, is in his
favor.

8. For omitting to allege any matter, without proof of
which the verdict, report, or decision ought not to have been
rendered.

9. For a mistake in the name of a party or other person;
or in a sum of money; or in the description of property;
or in reciting or stating a day, month, or year; where the
correct name, sum, description, or date has been once rightly
stated, in any of the pleadings or other proceedings.

10. For a mistake in the name of a juror or officer.

11. For an informality in entering judgment, or making
up the judgment-roll.

12. For any other default or negligence of the clerk, or
any other officer of the court, or of a party, his attorney or
counsel, by which the adverse party has not been prejudiced.

§ 722. Each of the omissions, imperfections, defects, and
variances, specified in the last section, and any other of like
nature, not being against the right and justice of the matter,
and not altering the issue between the parties, or the trial,
must, when necessary, be supplied, and the proceeding
amended, by the court wherein the judgment is rendered,
or by an appellate court.

§ 723. The court may, before or after judgment, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as it deems just, amend
any process, pleading, or other proceeding, by adding or
striking out the name of a person as a party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect, or by inserting an allegation material to the
case; or, Where the amendment does not change substantially the claim or defense, by conforming the pleading or
other proceeding to the facts proved. And, in every stage
of the action, the court must disregard an error or defect, in
the pleadings or other proceedings, which does not affect the
substantial rights of the adverse party.

§ 724. The court may likewise, in its discretion, and upon
such terms as justice requires, at any time Within one year
after notice thereof, relieve a party from a judgment, order.
or other proceeding, taken against him through his mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect; and may supply an omission in any proceeding. Where a proceeding,
taken by a party, fails to conform to a provision of this act,
the court may, in like manner, and upon like terms, permit
an amendment thereof, to conform it to the provision.

§ 725. A court, to which a return is made by a sheriff or
other officer, or by a subordinate court or other tribunal,
may, in its discretion, direct the return to be amended, in
matterof form, either before or after judgment.

§ 726. Where an original pleading or paper is lost, or
Withheld by any person, the court may authorize a copy to
be filed and used, instead of the original.

§ 727. A process, pleading, or record, shall not be altered,
by the clerk or any other officer of the court, or by any
other person, Without the direction of the court, or of
another court of competent authority; except in a case
Where a party, or his attorney, is specially authorized by
law to amend a pleading.

§ 728. The Want of a title, or a defect in the title, of an
affidavit, does not impair it, if it intelligibly refers to the
action or special proceeding, in which it is made.

§ 729. A bond or undertaking, required by statute to be
given by a person, to entitle him to a right or privilege, or
to take a proceeding, is sufiicient, if it conforms substantially to the form therefore, prescribed by the statute, and
does not vary therefrom, to the prejudice of the rights of
the party, to Whom, or for Whose benefit, it is given.

§ 730. Where such a bond or undertaking is defective,
the court, officer, or body, that would be authorized to
receive it, or to entertain a proceeding in consequence
thereof, if it was perfect, may, on the application of the
persons who executed it, amend it accordingly; and it shall
thereupon be valid, from the time of its execution.

TITLE II.
Tender, and other ofers and requests to the adverse party.

731. Tender after suit.

732. Amount to be paid into court.

733. Effect of suiiicient tender

734. When to be deducted from recovery etc.

735. Requiring admission of genuineness of paper.

736. Oder to liquidate damages conditionally.

737. E£ect of refusal of ofer.

738. Defendant's offer to compromise; proceedings thereon.

739. Plaintiffs oEer to compromise counterclaim; proceedings thereon.

740. Oifer and acceptance, by whom subscribed.
741. Rule if oE'er made within ten days before trial.

7453. In certain cases, judgment to be set aside.

§ 731. Where the complaint demands udgment for a sum
of money only; and the action is brought to recover a sum
certain, or which may be reduced to certainty by calculation ; or to recover damages for a casual or involuntary personal injury, or a like injury to property; the defendant, or
his attorney, may, at any time before the trial, tender to the
plaintifff, or his attorney, such a sum of money, as he conceives to be suiiicient to make amends for the injury, or to

pay the plaintiii"s demand ; together with the costs of the
action, to that time.

§ 732. A tender, made as prescribed in the last section,
does not avail the defendant, unless the money is accepted,
or is paid into court Within five days after the tender.
Notice of the payment into court must be served upon the
plaintifff’s attorney, Within five days after it is made. If
the plaintifff takes out the amount paid in, he accepts the

tender.

§ 733. If it appears, upon the trial, that the sum so tendered vvas sumcient to pay the plaintifffs demand, or to
make amends for the injury, and also to pay the costs of the
action, to the time of the tender, the plaintifff cannot recover
costs or interest, from the time of the tender, but must pay
the defendant’s costs from that time.

§ 734. If the plaintifff proceeds in the action, after accept~
ing the tender, the sum accepted must be deducted from the
recovery, and judgment rendered for the residue, if any;
and, if the tender and acceptance do not appear in the
pleadings, a memorandum thereof° must be annexed to the
j udgment-roll. The plaintifff’s right to recover costs, and his
liability to pay ‘costs to the defendant, are determined by
the amount of the residue. —

§ 735. The attorney for a party may, at any time before
rthe trial, exhibit to the attorney for the adverse party, a
paper, material to the action, and request a written admission of its genuineness. If the admission is not given,
Within four days after the request, and the paper is proved
or admitted on the trial, the expenses, incurred by the party
exhibiting it, in order to prove its genuineness, must be
ascertained at the trial, and paid by the party refusing the
admission ; unless it appears, to the satisfaction of the court,
that there was a good reason for the refusal.

§ 736. In an action to recover damages for breach of a
contract, the defendant’s attorney may, with the answer,
serve upon the plaintifff’s attorney, a Written offer, that, if

the defendant fails in his defense, the damages may be
assessed at a specified sum. If the plaintifff serves notice,
that he accepts the offer, with or before the notice of trial,
and damages are awarded to him on the trial, they must be
assessed accordingly.

§ 737. If the plaintifff does not accept the offer, he cannot
prove it, upon the trial. But if the damages, awarded to
him, do not exceed the sum offered, the defendant is entitled
to recover the expenses, necessarily incurred by him in preparing for the trial, with respect to the question of damages.
The expenses must be ascertained, by the judge, or the
referee, by or before whom the cause is tried.

§ 738. The defendant may, before the trial, serve upon
the plaintifff’s attorney, a written offer, to allow judgment
to be taken against him, for a sum, or property, or to’ the
effect, therein specified, with costs. If there are two or
more defendants, and the action can be severed, a like offer
may be made by one or more defendants, against whom a
separate judgment may be taken. If the plaintifff, within
ten days thereafter, serves upon the defendant’s attorney,
notice that he accepts the offer, he may file the summons,
complaint, and offer, with proof of acceptance, and thereupon the clerk must enter judgment accordingly. If notice
of acceptance is not thus given, the offer cannot be given in
evidence upon the trial ; but, if the plaintifff fails to obtain
a more favorable judgment, he cannot recover costs from
the time of the offer, but must pay costs from that time.

§ 739. Where the defendant sets up a counterclaim, to an
amount greater than the plaintifff's claim, or sufficient to
reduce the plaintifff’s recovery below fifty dollars, the plaintifff may serve, upon the defendant’s attorney, a written offer,
to allow judgment to be taken against him, for a specified
sum, with costs, or against the defendant for a specified sum,
and against the plaintifff for costs. If the defendant, within

ten days thereafter, serves, upon the plaintifff’s attorney,
notice that he accepts the offer, either party may file the
summons, complaint, answer, and offer, or copies thereof,
and proof of acceptance; and thereupon the clerk must
enter judgment accordingly. If notice of acceptance is not
thus given, the offer cannot be given in evidence, upon the
trial; but, if the defendant fails to recover a more favorable judgment, he cannot recover costs from the time of the
offer, but must pay costs from that time.

§ 740. Unless an offer or an acceptance, made as prescribed in either of the last four sections, is subscribed by
the party making it, his attorney must subscribe it, and
annex thereto his affidavit, to the effect, that he is duly
authorized to make it, in behalf of the party.

§ 741. If the adverse party moves the trial, before the
expiration of ten days, after an oifer is made, he is deemed

to have rejected the offer. The party making the offer cannot move the trial until the expiration of the ten days.

§ 742. Where it appears, to the satisfaction of the court,
in a case where judgment has been taken, upon the acceptance of an offer, as prescribed in this title, that the action
was commenced, upon an express or tacit, direct or indirect,
agreement or understanding between the parties, that an
offer should be made by one party, for the purpose of enabling the other party to take judgment thereupon; the
judgment must be set aside, within one year after it is entered, upon the application of a subsequent judgment
creditor of the party, against whom the judgment was
taken; or of a third person interested in property, affected
by the judgment; or, where the judgment was taken against
two or more persons as joint debtors, upon the application
of either of them, who did not join in, or consent to the
offer. But where a judgment is so set aside, the title to
property, sold to a purchaser, for value, and in good faith,

shall not be affected thereby.

TITLE III.

Payment of money into court, and care and diqvosition,
t/zereqf.

743. Party bringing money into court is discharged.

744. General rules may regulate concerning payment into court.

745. Money to be paid to county treasurer, and securities taken in his name.
746. Funds; where and how deposited or invested.

747. Powers of supreme court as to transfer, etc., to and investment by guardian, etc.

748. When other courts have like power.

749. Powers of certain officers, touching securities, etc.

750. Provision relating to death, removal, etc., of officer.

751. Authority for payment of money by bank or trust company.

752. How county treasurer to keep his accounts.

753. County treasurer to report annually to the court.

754. These provisions applicable in N ew-York to the chamberlain.

§ 743. A party bringing money into court, pursuant to 2

the direction of the court, is discharged thereby from all
further liability, to the extent of the money so paid in.

§ 744. The general rules of practice may contain regulations, concerning the payment of money into court, in an
action, and the care and disposition thereof, which shall

govern, where provision is not otherwise made by law.

§ 745. Unless the court otherwise specially directs,
money, paid into court, must be paid, either directly, or by
the officer who is required by law first to receive it, to the
county treasurer of the county, where the action is triable.
Where it is paid to an officer, other than the county treasurer, he must pay it to the county treasurer, within four days
after he receives it. In the city of New-York, he must pay
it to the chamberlain, within two days after he receives it.
A bond, mortgage, or other security, or a certificate or transfer of stock, taken upon the investment of money paid into
court, must be taken to the county treasurer of the county
where the fund belongs, in his name of office; or to such

other county treasurer, as the court specially directs. But
this and the next section do not prevent the court, upon the
application of a party to an action, from directing in What
manner or place, money, paid into court in the action, shall
be deposited or invested.

§ 746. Provision may be made, in the general rules of
practice, for the deposit, in a bank or trust company, of
money paid into court; for the investment thereof in the
public debt of the United States, or of a state, or for loaning
it upon approved interest-bearing mortgages upon real property; and for transferring or disposing, from time to time,
of the money. or any investment, or security. But the
money must be deposited or loaned in the county where the
fund belongs, where that can be done conveniently and
safely, and with advantage to the parties interested.

§ 747. The supreme court may direct that money, paid
into that court, in an action brought therein, or a bond, mortgage, or other security, or public stock, in the possession or
under the control of a county treasurer, Which represents
money so paid in, be transferred and delivered to a general
or special guardian, committee, or other trustee, upon his
giving, or if he has given, security, satisfactory to the court,
for the faithful execution of his trust; or that a bond,
mortgage, or other security, or public stock, be taken by
and in the name of the guardian, committee, or other
trustee; and be collected, invested or loaned, as the court
directs, or as prescribed in the general rules of practice.

§ 748. Each superior city court, each county court, and
the marine court of the city of New-York, possesses, with
respect to money, paid into that court, in an action brought
therein, or a bond, mortgage, or other security, or public
stock, in or upon which it has been -invested or loaned,

the power and authority conferred upon the supreme court,
by the last section.

§ 749. A county treasurer, or other officer, or a guardian,
committee, or other trustee, in whose name is taken a bond,
mortgage, or other security, or public stock, representing
money, paid into court, in an action; or to Whom stock or
a security, or an account, deed, voucher, receipt, or other
paper, representing or relating to such money, is transferred,
delivered, made, or given, pursuant to law, is vested with
complete title thereto; and may bring an action upon or in
relation to the same, in his official or representative character.

§ 750. On the expiration of the ofiicial term of a county
treasurer, or Where a vacancy occurs in his office, by death
or otherwise, all public stock, bonds, mortgages, and other
securities held by him, as prescribed in this title, vest in his
successor in office; and all money deposited, as prescribed
in this title, in a bank, trust company or other depository,
to his credit, vests in, and must be carried to, the account
of his successor in office.

§ 751. Money, paid into court, in an action, and deposited
in a bank or trust company, to the credit of a county treasurer, shall not be paid. out, Without the production of a certified copy of an order of the court, for that purpose, countersigned by the judge, by Whose direction it is made.

§ 752. The accounts of a county treasurer, with respect
to money received by him, as prescribed in this title, with
each bank or trust company, in Which it is deposited, must
be kept, so as to show, in the cash-books of the bank or
company, and in the books of the county treasurer, in What
particular action, or on what account, each item of money
credited or charged, was deposited or paid out.

§ 753. A county treasurer, Who has, in his possession or
under his control, money, bonds, mortgages, or other securities, or public stock, as prescribed in this title, must, once in
each year, at the time prescribed by special order, or by

the general rules of practice, make a report to the court,
into which the money was paid, containing a statement of
his accounts for the preceding year, or since the last account
was rendered, and of the funds and securities under his control, relating to the money paid into that court. The statement must show, as to each action separately, the amount
on hand uninvested; the time when each sum of money was
received; the time, amount, and other description of each
payment, investment, or loan ; the amount deposited in each
bank or trust company; and the balance on deposit therein;
and also all public stock, bonds, mortgages, and other securities, representing the remainder of the fund. The statement must be accompanied with a certificate of the proper
officer of each bank or trust company, in which a deposit is
made, to the effect, that the total amount, stated to be remaining on deposit, is actually in that bank or company,
placed to the credit of the county treasurer, in the action,
and not mingled with any other account.

§ 754. Each provision of this title, relating to a county
treasurer, applies to the chamberlain of the city of NewYork, with respect to money paid into court, in an action
triable in the city and county of N ew-York, or with respect
to money, or a bond, mortgage’, or other security, or public
stock, representing money paid into court; except where
special provision, with respect to the same, is otherwise
made by law.

TITLE IV.

Proceedings upon the death or disability of a party, or the
transfer of his intmest.

755. Action; when not to abate.

756. Proceedings upon transfer of interest, or devolution of liability.
757. Id.; when sole party dies and action survives.

758. Id.; when one of several parties dies.

759. 760. Id.; when part of cause of action survives.

761. When court may order action abated.

762. Special cases excepted.

763. Death of party after verdict, etc.
764. Action for a wrong not to abate after verdict, etc.
765. No verdict, etc., can be taken after a party's death.
766. Death, etc., of public oiiicer or trustee.

§ 755. An action does not abate by any event, if the
cause of action survives or continues.

§ 756. In case of a transfer of interest, or devolution of
liability, the action may be continued, by or against the
original party; unless the court directs the person, to whom
the interest is transferred, or upon whom the liability is
devolved, to be substituted in the action, or joined with the
original party, as the case requires.

§ 757. In case of the death of a sole plaintifff or defendant, if the cause of action survives or continues, the court,
on motion, within one year thereafter, or afterwards, on a
supplemental complaint, must, in a proper case, allow or
compel the action to be continued, by or against his representative, or successor in interest.

§ 758. In case of the death of one of two or more plaintifffs,
or one of two or more defendants, if the entire cause of action
survives to or against the others, the action must proceed in
favor of or against the others, as the case requires; and the
court, on motion, may change the title thereof accordingly.

§ 759. In case of the death of one of two or more plaintifffs, or one of two or more defendants, if part only of the
cause of action, or part or some of two or more distinct
causes of action, survives to or against the others, the action
may proceed, Without bringing in the successor to the rights
or liabilities of the deceased party; and the judgment shall
not affect him, or his interest in the subject of the action.
But where it appears proper so to do, the court may require
or compel the successor, or a person who claims to be the
successor, to be brought in as a party, upon his own application or upon the application of a party to the action.

§ 760. Where such a person applies in his own behalf,
the court may direct that he be made a party, by amendment of ‘the pleadings, or otherwise, as the case requires.
Where an application is made by the plaintifff, to bring in
such a person as defendant, the court may direct that a supplemental summons issue, and that supplemental pleadings
be made. Where an application is made by a defendant, to
bring in such a person, the court may, and in a proper case
must, permit the defendant to commence a cross action for
that purpose. The cross action must be brought in the same
court, unless the order otherwise specially directs. If it
directs that the action be commenced in another court, the
latter court may, by order, at any time after the cross action
is commenced, remove to itself the original action, with like
effect as if it had been brought therein. Unless the court
otherwise directs, the original action and the cross action

must be tried; and judgment rendered therein, as if they
were one action. ‘

§ 761. At any time after the death of the plaintifff, or after
the marriage of the plaintifff, where it affects the rights of
either party, the court may, in its discretion, upon notice to
such persons as it directs, and upon the application of the
adverse party, or of a person whose interest is affected, direct
that the action abate, unless it is continued by the proper
parties, Within a time specified in the order, not less than six
months, or more than one year, after the granting thereof.

§ 762. The foregoing provisions of this title do not apply
to a case, where special provision is otherwise made by law.

§ 763. If either party to an action dies, after an accepted
offer to allow judgment to be taken, or after a verdict,
report, or decision, or an interlocutory judgment, but before
final judgment is entered, the court must enter final judgment, in the names of the original parties ; unless the offer,
verdict, report, or decision, or the interlocutory judgment,
is set aside.

§ 764. After verdict, report, or decision, in an action to

recover damages for a personal injury, the action does not
abate by the death of a party, unless the verdict, report, or
decision is finally set aside. Until it is finally set aside,
the subsequent proceedings, including an appeal from an
order setting it aside, or from a judgment or order reversing
or setting aside a judgment entered thereupon, are the same,
as in a case where the cause of action survives.

§ 765. This title does not authorize the entry of a judgment against a party, Who dies before a verdict, report, or
decision is actually rendered against him. In that case, the
verdict, report, or decision is absolutely void.

§ 766. Where an action or special proceeding is authorized or directed by law, to be brought by or in the name

of a public officer, or by a receiver, or other trustee, appointed
by virtue of a statute, his death or removal does not abate
the action or special proceeding; but the same may be continued by his successor, who must, upon his application, or
that of a party interested, be substituted for that purpose,
by the order of the court, a copy of Which must be annexed

to the judgment-roll.

TITLE V.
Motzbns a/ml orders generally.

767. Definition of an order.

768. Id.; of a motion.

769. Motions in supreme court; where to be heard.

770. Motions in New-York city.

771. In absence of judge, motion may be transferred to another judge.
772, 773. What judges may make orders out of court, without notice.
774. Review of order made by county judge.

775. When stay of proceedings not to exceed twenty days.

776. Subsequent application for order, after denial, etc., of prior application.
777. Id.; as to application for judgment.

778. Penalty for violating last two sections.

779. Costs of a motion; how collected.

§ 767. A direction of a court or judge, made, as preW scribed in this act, in an action or special proceeding, must

be in writing, unless otherwise specified in the particular
case. Such a direction, unless it is contained in a judgment, is an order.

§ 768. An application for an order is a motion.

§ 769. A motion, upon notice, in an action in the supreme
court, must be made within the judicial district, in which
the action is triable, or in a county adjoining that in which
it is triable; except that where it is triable in the first

judicial district, the motion must be made in that district;
and a motion, upon notice, cannot be made in that district,

in an action triable elsewhere. But this section does not
apply to a case, Where it is specially prescribed by law, that
a motion may be made in the county, where the applicant, or
other person to be affected thereby, or the attorney, resides.

§ 770. In the first judicial district, a motion which elsewhere must be made in court, maybe made, to a judge out
of court, except for a new trial on the merits.

§ 771. Where notice of a motion is given, or an order to
show cause is returnable, before a judge, out of court, who,
at the time lixed for the motion, is or will be absent, or
unable, for any other cause, to hear it, the motion may be
transferred, by his order, made before or at that time, or by
the written stipulation of the attorneys for the parties, to
another judge, before whom it might have been originally
made.

§ 772. Where an order, in an action, may be made out of
court, and without notice, and the judge who must make it
is not specially designated by law, it may be made by a judge
of the court, in any part of the State; or, except to stay
proceedings after verdict, report, or decision, by the county
judge of the county where the action is triable, or in which
the attorney for the applicant resides. Where such an order

grants a provisional remedy, it can be vacated only in the
mode specially prescribed by law; in any other case, it
may be vacated or modified, without notice, by the judge
who made it, or, upon notice, by him, or by the court.

§ 773. The limitation, contained in the last section, of
the county judges who may make an order, does not apply
to a case where it is prescribed in this act, in general words,
that a particular order may be made by a county judge, or

' by any county judge.

§ 774. An order, made by a county judge, may be reviewed in the same manner, as if it was made by a judge of
the court, in which the action is pending.

§ 775. An order to stay proceedings in an action, for a
longer time than twenty days, shall not be made by a
judge, out of court, except to stay proceedings under an
order or judgment appealed from, or where it is made upon
notice of the application, to the adverse party.

§ 776. If an application for an order, made to a judge of
the court, or to a county judge, is Wholly or partly refused,
or granted conditionally, or on terms; a subsequent application, in reference to the same matter, and in the same stage
of the proceedings, shall be made only to the same judge,
or to the court. If it is made to another judge, out of
court, an order granted thereupon must be vacated by the
judge who made it; or, if he is absent, or otherwise unable

to hear the application, by any judge of the court. upon
proof, by afxidavit, of the facts.

§ 777. Where an application is made to the court for
judgment, it cannot be withdrawn, without the express permission of the court; and a subsequent application for judgment shall not be made, at a term held by another judge,
except where the lirst application is so withdrawn; or Where

the directions, given thereupon, require an act to be done,
before judgment can be rendered; or where the fact of the
former application is stated, and the proceedings thereupon,
and subsequent thereto, are fully set forth, in the papers
upon which the application is made.

§ 778. A person making an application, forbidden by the
last two sections, with knowledge of the previous application, shall be punished by the court, for a contempt.

§ 779. Where costs of a motion, directed by an order to
be paid, are not paid, within the time fixed for that purpose
by the order, or by the general rules of practice, an execution, against the personal property only, of the person
required to pay them, may be issued in the same form, as
nearly as may be, as an execution upon a judgment; omitting the recitals and directions, relating to real property.
But where the order directs, that the costs of the motion
abide the event of the action, or where costs of a motion,
awarded by an order, have not been collected, when final
judgment is entered, they may be taxed as part of the costs
of the action, or set off against costs awarded to the adverse
party, as the case requires. This section does not affect the

right of a party, to collect costs of a motion, by proceedings
for contempt, in a case where they may be so collected by
law.

TITLE V1.

Miscellaneous practice regulations.

Anrrcnn 1. General regulations respecting time.

2. Preferred and deferred causes.

3. Service of papers.

4. Discovery of books and papers.

5. General regulations respecting bonds and undertakings.
6. Other matters.

ARTICLE FIRST.

Gnmnnu. Rnsumrrrons mnsrncrme Tum.

SIG. 780. Notice of motion, to be eight days.

781. How time enlarged, before its expiration.

782. Copy of affidavit must be served.

788. Relief, after time has expired.

784. When time cannot be extended.

785. Qualification of last section.

786. Orders in certain actions ; how published.

787. Time for publication of notice; how computed.
788. Time for doing any act; how computed.

§ 780. Where special provision is not otherwise made by
law, or by the general rules of practice, if notice of a motion,
or of any other proceeding in an action, before a court or a
judge, is necessary, it must, if personally served, be served at
least eight days before the time appointed for the hearing;
unless the court or judge, upon an affidavit showing grounds
therefore, makes an order to show cause, why the application
should not be granted; and, in the order, directs that service
thereof, less than eight days before it is returnable, be sufficient.

§ 781. Where the time, within which a proceeding in an
action, after its commencement, must be taken, has begun to
run, and has not expired, it may be enlarged, upon an affidavit showing grounds therefore, by the court, or by a judge
authorized to make an order in the action.

§ 782. In a case specified in the last two sections, the affidavit, upon which the order‘ was granted, or a copy thereof,

must be served with a copy of the order; otherwise, the
order may be disregarded.

§ 783. After the expiration of the time, Within which a
pleading must be made, or any other proceeding in an action,
after its commencement, must be taken, the court, upon good
cause shown, may, in its discretion, and upon such terms as

justice requires, relieve the party from the consequences
of an emission to do the act, and allow it to be done; except

as otherwise specially prescribed by law.

§ 784. A court, or a judge, is not authorized to extend the
time, fixed by law, within which to commence an action; or
to take an appeal; or to apply to continue an action, where
a party thereto has died, or has incurred a disability; or the
time fixed by the court, within which a supplemental complaint must be made, in order to continue an action ; or an
action is to abate, unless it is continued by the proper parties.
A court, or a judge, cannot allow either of those acts to be
done, after the expiration of the time fixed by law, or by the
order, as the case may be, for doing it; except in a case
specified in the next section.

§ 785. Where a party, entitled to appeal from a judgment or order, dies, within sixty days, after the entry of the
same, or next before the expiration of the time within
which the appeal may be taken ; or where a person, entitled
to move to set aside a final judgment, for error in fact, dies,
within sixty days next before the expiration of the time to
make such a motion, the court, by which the order was
made, or the judgment rendered, may allow the appeal to
be taken, or the motion to be made, by the heir, devisee, or
personal representative of the decedent, as the case requires,
if the application, for leave so to do, is made within four
months after the entry of the judgment or order, or the expiration of the time prescribed by law for the motion.

§ 786. Where an action is brought for the collective
benefit of the creditors of a person, or of an estate, or for

A the benefit of a person or persons, other than the plaintifff,

who will come in and contribute to the expense of the
action, notice of a direction of the court, contained in a
judgment or order, requiring the creditors, or other person
or persons to exhibit their demands, or otherwise to come

in, must be published, once in each week, for at least three
successive weeks, and as much longer as the court directs,
in the newspaper, published at Albany, in which legal
notices are required to be published, and in a newspaper,
published in the county where the act is required to be
done.

§ 787. The period of publication of a legal notice, in an
action or special proceeding, brought in a court, either of
record or not of record, or before a judge of such a court,
must be computed, so as to exclude the first day of publication, and include the day, on which’ the act or event, of
which notice is given, is to happen, or which completes the
full period of publication.

§ 788. The time, within which an act, in an action or
special proceeding, brought, as specified in the last section, is
required by law to be done, must be computed, by excluding the first, and including the last day ; except where it is
otherwise specially prescribed by law. If the last day is
Sunday, or a legal holiday, it must be excluded. Where
the act is required to be done within two days, and an intervening day is Sunday, or a legal holiday, it must also be
excluded.

ARTICLE SECOND.

Pnnrnnnnn AND DEFERRED Causns.

789. Preference of certain actions by the people.
790. Id.; of criminal actions.
791. Id.; among civil actions.
792. Id.; in mandamus or prohibition.
793. When an order is necessary.

794. When cause passed, how placed upon the calendar.
795. Note of issue to state time when passed.

§ 789. A trial, motion, appeal, or hearing, in an action by
the people to recover money, funds, credits, or other property,
held or owned by the State, or held or owned, officially or
otherwise, for, or in behalf of, a public or governmental interest, by a municipal or other public corporation, or by a
board, officer, custodian, agency or agent of the State, or of
a city, county, town, village, or other division, subdivision,
department, or portion of the State, which the defendant
has, Without right obtained, received, converted, or disposed
of; or to recover damages, or other compensation, for so
obtaining, receiving, paying, converting, or disposing of the
same; or the aiding or abetting thereof; is entitled, on the
application of the attorney-general, to a preference over any
other business, at a term or sitting of any court of the State,
irrespective of its place upon the calendar.

§ 790. A criminal action, including an appeal or other
proceeding in a criminal cause, is entitled, under the direction of the court, to preference in the trial or hearing
thereof, over all civil actions and special proceedings, except
as prescribed in the last section.

§ 791. Civil causesare entitled to preference among themselves, in the trial or hearing thereof, in the following order,
next after the causes specified in the last section but one:

1. An action or special proceeding, in which the people
of the State are parties, and appear by the attorney-general;
Where the attorney-general has given notice, at the time of
service of notice of trial or argument, of a particular day
in the term, on which he will move it. If the action or
special proceeding is not moved by him for trial or argument on that day, or as soon thereafter, in the same term, as
the court can hear it, the other party may then move the
trial or argument; otherwise, it shall not be moved out
of its order at that term, except by the special order of
the court.

2. Except in the court of appeals or the supreme court,
an. action or special proceeding, in which the commissioners
of pilots in the city of N ew-York are parties; where a
notice, similar to the notice prescribed in the last subdivision, has been served by their attorney, at the time of
service of the notice of trial or’ argument. The provisions

of the last subdivision, relating to moving the trial or argument, apply to a cause Within this subdivision.
3. In the court of appeals or the supreme court, an appeal

taken by either party, in an action or special proceeding
other than as specified in subdivision first of this section,

where the people of the State, or a board of State officers,
are sole parties, or a State officer is sole party, plaintifff or
defendant.

4. An action or special proceeding, in which the mayor,
aldermen, and commonalty of the city of N ew-York are
parties.

5. In the court of appeals, an action, a party to which
has died, pending the action, Where the pendency of the
action prevents a final settlement of the estate of the

deceased party.
6. In any court, an action, in which an executor or administrator is the sole plaintifff or sole defendant; an action_

for the construction of, or an adjudication upon, a will, in
Which the administrator with the will annexed, or the executor of the Will, is joined, as plaintifff or defendant, with one
or more other parties; and, in the court of appeals or the
supreme court, an appeal from the decree or decision of a
surrogate’s court, determining a will to be valid, and admitting it to probate, or granting general letters of administration.

7. An action, wherein the defendant is actually confined
in jail, by virtue of an order of arrest, for want of bail.

8. An action for dower; where the plaintifff makes proof,

by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the court, or a judge
thereof, that she has no sufiicient means of support, aside
from the estate in controversy.

9. An appeal from an adjudication, made in a summary
proceeding to recover the possession of real property.

10. A motion to vacate or modify a provisional remedy,
or an appeal from an order, allowing or continuing a provisional remedy.

11. An action against a corporation or joint-stock association, issuing bank notes, or any kind of paper credits, to

circulate as money; or by or against a receiver of such a
corporation or association. ‘

12. An action against a corporation, founded upon a note,
or other evidence of debt, for the absolute payment of
money.

13. An action against a sheriff, in his ofiicial capacity.

14. A cause entitled to preference, by the general rules of
practice, or by the special order of the court in the particular case.

“There an issue of law and an issue of fact, or two or more
other questions of different natures, come before the same
term of the court for trial or hearing, the preference given
by this section affects only the order, in which the issues or
questions of the same nature are to be disposed of.

§ 792. Where a Writ of mandamus or of prohibition has
been issued, from the general term, to a special term, or a
judge of the same court, the cause may, in the discretion of
the court, or, where an appeal is taken therein to the court
of appeals, in the discretion of that court, be preferred
over any of the causes specified in the last section.

§ 793. Where the right to a preference depends upon
facts, which do not appear in the pleadings or other papers,
upon which the cause is to be tried or heard, the party desiring a preference must procure an order therefore, from the
court, or a judge thereof, upon notice to the adverse party.
A copy of the order must be served, with or before the notice
of trial or argument. Such an order is not appealable;
but it may be vacated by the judge or judges holding the
term of court, at which the preferred cause is noticed for
trial" or hearing. But a preliminary order is not requisite,
in a case embraced within subdivision first or second of the
last section but one; and the order, in a case embraced
Within subdivision seventh or eighth thereof, may be made
ex parte and is conclusive.

§ 794. Where an action or special proceeding, placed
upon the calendar of a term of a court of record, held in
the city and county of N ew-York, is regularly called and
passed, Without a postponement by the court, for good
cause shown, it must thenceforth be placed on the same or
a future calendar, as if the date of the issue Was the time
when it was thus passed.

§ 795. In a case specified in the last section, the party
placing the cause upon the calendar for a subsequent term,
must state, in the note of issue, the date, of the issue, as
prescribed in that section. If he omits to do so, by reason

_Whereof the cause retains its priority on the calendar, the

court, on the application of the adverse party, or of its own
motion, may strike the cause from the calendar.

ARTICLE THIRD.

Snnvrcn: or Parana.

796. Paper may be served personally.

797. Other modes of service.

798. Double time when served through the post-office.

799. When paper to be served on attorney; when service not required.
800. When service may be made on clerk, for non-resident.

801. Service through branch post-office in New-York city.

802. This article not applicable to service of summons, etc.

§ 796. A notice or other paper in an action, may be served
on a party or an attorney, either by delivering it to him
personally, or in the manner prescribed in the next section.

§ 797. Where the service is not personal, it may be made
as follows:
' 1. Upon a party or an attorney, through the post-oilice.
by depositing the paper, properly inclosed in a post-paid
Wrapper, in the post-oiiice of the.party or the attorney serving it, directed _to the person to be served, at the address,
Within the State, designated by him for that purpose, upon
the preceding papers in the action; or, Where he has not
made such a designation, at his place of residence, or the

place where he keeps an office, according to the best information which can conveniently be obtained concerning the
same.

2. Upon an attorney, during his absence from his office,
by leaving the paper with his partner or clerk therein, or
with a person having charge thereof.

3. Upon an attorney, if there is no person in charge of
his oliice, and the service is made between six o’clock in the
morning and nine o’clock in the evening, either by leaving
it, in a conspicuous place in his office, or by depositing it,
iuclosed in a sealed wrapper, directed to him, in his olhce
letter-box; or, if the oiiice is not open, so as to admit of
leaving the paper therein, and there is no office letter-box,
by leaving it at his residence, within the State, with a person‘
of suitable age and discretion.

4. Upon a party, by leaving the paper at his residence,
between six o’clock in the morning and nine o’clock in the
evening, with a person of suitable age and discretion.

§ 798. Where it is prescribed in this act, or in the general rules of practice, that a notice must be given, or a
paper must be served, within a specified time, before an act

is to be done; or that the adverse party has a specified time,
after notice or service, within which to do an act; if service is made through the post-office, the time so required or
allowed is double the time specified; except that service of
notice of trial may be made, through the post-office, not less
than sixteen days before the day of trial, including the day
of service.

§ 799. Where a party has appeared, a notice or other
paper, required to be served in an action, must be served
upon his attorney. If a defendant has not appeared, service
of a notice or other paper, in the ordinary proceedings in the
action, need not be made upon him, unless he is actually
confined in jail, for want of bail.

§ 800. Where a party to an action, who has appeared in
person, resides without the State, or his residence cannot,
with reasonable diligence, be ascertained, and he has not
designated an address, Within the State, upon the preceding
papers, service of a paper upon him may be made, by serving it on the clerk.

§ 801. In the city of New-York, Where a paper is served,
or a return is made, through the post-olhce, the deposit of
the package in a branch post-oiiice has the same effect, as a
deposit in the general or principal post-oilice of that city.

§ 802. This article does not apply to the service of a summons, or other process; or of a paper to bring a party into
contempt; or to a case where the mode of service is specially
prescribed by law. ‘

ARTICLE FOURTH.

Drsoovnnr or Booxs um P.u-mas.

803. Court may direct discovery of books, etc.

804. Rules to prescribe the cases, etc.

805. Petition for discovery, and order thereupon.
806. Order when and by whom vacated.

807. Final order upon the petition.

808. Penalty for disobedience.

809. Effect of papers, etc., produced.

§ 803. A court of record, other than a justices’ court in
a city, has power to compel a party to an action pending
therein, to produce and discover, or to give to the other
party, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy,
of a book, document, or other paper, in his possession or
under his control, relating to the merits of the action, or
of the defense therein.

§ 804. The general rules of practice must prescribe the
cases, in which a discovery or inspection may be so compelled, and the proceedings for that purpose, where the same
are not prescribed in this act.

§ 805. To entitle a party to procure such a discovery or
inspection, he must present a petition, praying therefore, and
verified by affidavit, to the court, or to a judge authorized
to make an order in the action; upon which an order may
be made, directing the party, against whom the discovery or
inspection is sought, to allow it, or in default thereof, to

.show cause before the court, at a time and place, and upon a

notice, therein specified, why the prayer of the petition
should not be granted; and, if necessary or proper, that his
proceedings be stayed until the hearing of the application,
although the stay exceeds twenty days.

§ 806. An order, made as prescribed in the last section,

‘may be vacated, by the judge who granted it, or by the

court, upon satisfactory proof, by affidavit:

1. That it ought not ‘to have been granted, or that it has
been complied with; or,

2. That the party required to make the discovery, or
permit the inspection, has not the possession or control of
the book, document, or other paper, directed to be produced
or inspected.

§ 807. Upon the return of the order to show cause, the
court may make such an order, with respect to the discovery
or inspection prayed for, as justice requires. Where either
is directed, a referee may be appointed by the order, to
direct and superintend it; whose certilicate, unless set aside
by the court, is presumptive, and, except in proceedings for
contempt, conclusive evidence, of compliance or non-compliance with the terms of the order. A fixed sum, not
exceeding twenty dollars, may be added to the costs of the
motion, for the fees of the referee.

§ 808. Where an order, made as prescribed in the last section, directs a discovery or inspection, the party in whose
behalf it was made, may, upon proof, by affidavit, that the
adverse party has failed to obey it, and upon notice to him,

apply to the court, for an order to punish him for the failure.
Upon the hearing of the application, the court may, upon
the payment of such a sum, for the expenses of the applicant
as the court fixes, and upon compliance with such other
terms as it deems just to impose, permit the party in default
to comply with the order for a discovery and inspection;
and, for that purpose, it may direct that the application to
punish him stand over to a future time. Upon the final
hearing of the application to punish the party in default,
the court, in a proper case, may direct that his complaint be
dismissed, or his answer or reply be stricken out, and that
judgment be ‘ rendered accordingly; or it may make an
order, striking out one or more causes of action, defenses,
counterclaims, or replies, interposed by him; or that he be
debarred from maintaining a particular claim or defense, in
relation to which the discovery or inspection was sought.
Where the party has failed to obey an order, allowing an
inspection by the adverse party, and requiring him to furnish
a copy, or permit a copy to be taken, the court may also
direct that the book, document, or other paper be excluded
from being given in evidence; or it may punish the party
for a contempt; or both.

§ 809. A book, document, or other paper, produced
under an order, made as prescribed in this article, has the
san1e effect, when used by the party requiring it, as if it
was produced upon notice, according to the practice of the
court.

ARTICLE FIFTH.

GENERAL Rnaumrrrons mnsrncrms Bonus AND Unnmuuuzmes.

BEG. 810. Bonds, undertakings, etc., must be acknowledged.
811. Party need not join with his sureties; when one surety is sumcient.
812. Form of bond or undertaking; affidavit of sureties; approval by court
or judge.

813. When several sureties may justify, each in a smaller sum.

814. Bonds, etc., to the people or a public officer for the benefit of a suitor.
815. Bonds, etc., not affected by change of parties.

816. 111.; to be dled.

§ 810. Before a bond or undertaking, given in an action

for special proceeding, as prescribed in this act, becomeseffectual, it must be acknowledged or proved, and certified,
in like manner as a deed to be recorded.

§ 811. Where a-provision of this act requires a bond or
undertaking, with sureties, to be given by, or in behalf of, a
party or other person, he need not join with the sureties in
the execution thereof, unless the provision requires him to
execute the same; and the execution thereof by one surety
is sufiicient, although the word, “ sureties,” is used, unless
the provision expressly requires two or more sureties.

§ 812. A bond or undertaking, executed by a surety or
sureties, as prescribed in this act, must, where two or more
persons execute it, be joint and several in form; and, except
as otherwise expressly prescribed by law, it must be accompanied with the affidavit of each surety, subjoined thereto,
to the effect, that he is a resident of, and a householder or
a freeholder within, the State, and is worth the penalty of
the bond, or twice the sum specified in the undertaking,
over all the debts and liabilities, which he owes or has incurred, and exclusive of property, exempt by law from levy
and sale under an execution. A bond or undertaking given
by a party, without a surety, must be accompanied by his
aiiidavit, to the same effect. The bond or undertaking,
except as otherwise expressly prescribed by law, must
be approved by the court, before which the proceeding is
taken. or a judge thereof, or the judge, before whom the
proceeding is taken. The approval must be indorsed upon
the bond or undertaking.

§ 813. But where the penalty of the bond, or twice the
sum specified in the undertaking, is twenty thousand dollars,
or upwards, the court or judge may, in its or his discretion,
allow the sum, in which a surety is required to justify, to

be made up by the justification of two or more sureties,
each in a smaller sum. But, in that case, a surety cannot
justify in a sum less than ten thousand dollars; and, where
two or more sureties are required by law to justify, the
same person cannot so contribute to make up the sum, for
more than one of them.

§ 814. Where a bond or undertaking has been given, as
prescribed by law, in the course of an action or special proceeding, to the people or to a public officer, for the benefit
of a party or other person interested, and provision is not
specially made by law for the prosecution thereof; the
party or other person, so interested, may maintain an action
in his own name, for a breach of the condition of the bond,
or of the terms of the undertaking; upon procuring an
order, granting him leave so to do. The order may be
made by the court in which the action is or was pending;
or by a superior city court, the marine court of the city of
N ew-York, or a county court, if the bond or undertaking
was given in a special proceeding, pending before a judge of
that court; or, in any other case, by the supreme court.
Notice of the application therefore must be given, as directed
by the court or judge, to the persons interested in the disposition of the proceeds.

§ 815. A bond or undertaking, given in an action or
special proceeding, as prescribed in this act, continues in
force, after the substitution of a new party in place of an
original party, or any other change of parties ; and has thereafter the same force and effect, as if then given anew, in conformity to the change of parties.

§ 816. A bond or undertaking, required to be given by
this act, must be filed with the clerk of the court; except
where, in a special case, a different disposition thereof is
directed by the court, or prescribed in this act.

ARTICLE SIXTH.

Ornnn MATTERS.

817. Consolidating causes in same court.
818. Id; in diferent courts.
819. Id.; by plaintiff.
820. Interpleader by order in certain cases.

821. Dismissal of complaint for neglect to serve summons.

822. Id.; for neglect to proceed.

823. Feigned issues abolished, and order for trial substituted.

824. Summons and pleadings to be filed within ten days after service.

825. Papers in special proceedings; where to be filed.

826. Publication, if no newspaper in county.
827. Special references in certain cases.

§ 817 . Where two or more actions, in favor of the same
plaintifff against the same defendant, for causes of action
which may be joined, are pending in the same court, the
court may, in its discretion, by order, consolidate any or all
of them, into one action.

§ 818. Where one of the actions is pending in the supreme
court, and another is pending in another court, the supreme
court may, by order, remove to itself the action in the other
court, and consolidate it with that in the supreme court.

§ 819. Where separate actions are commenced against
two or more joint and several debtors, in the same court, and
for the same cause of action, the plaintifff may, in any stage
of the proceedings, consolidate them into one action.

§ 820. A defendant, against whom an action to recover
damages for the breach of a contract, or an action of ejectment, or an action to recover a chattel, is pending, may, at
any time before answer, upon proof, by affidavit, that a person, not a party to the action, makes a demand against him
for the same debt or property, without collusion with him,
apply to the court, upon notice to that person and the
adverse party, for an order to substitute that person in his
place, and to discharge him from liability to either, on his

paying into court the amount of the debt, or delivering the
property, or its value, to such person as the court directs.
The court may, in its discretion, make such an order.

§ 821. Where, in an action against two or more defendants, the plaintifff unreasonably neglects to. serve the summons upon one or more of them, the court may, in its
discretion, upon the application of a defendant who has
appeared in the action, dismiss the complaint as against
him, and render judgment accordingly.

§ 822. Where the plaintifff unreasonably neglects to proceed in the action against a defendant, the court may, in its
discretion, upon the application of that defendant, dismiss
the complaint as against him, and render judgment accordingly.

§ 823. Feigned issues have been abolished. In a case,
Where neither party can, as of right, require a trial by jury
of an issue of fact arising upon the pleadings, or where a
question of fact, not in issue upon the pleadings, is to be
tried, an order for the trial thereof by a jury may be made,
stating, distinctly and plainly, the questions of fact to be
tried. Such an order is the only authority necessary for
the trial.

§ 824. The summons, and each pleading in an action,
must be filed with the clerk, by the party in whose behalf
it is served, within ten days after the service thereof. If
the party fails so to file it, the adverse party, on proof
of the failure, is entitled, Without notice, to an order from a
judge, that it be filed Within a time specified in the order,
or be deemed abandoned.

§ 825. A return or other paper in a special proceeding,
Where no other disposition thereof is prescribed by law,
must be filed, and an order therein must be entered, with

the clerk of the county in which the special proceeding is
taken, if it is before a county oiiicer, or a judge of a court
established in a city; if before a justice of the supreme
court, with the clerk of a county designated by the justice;
or, if no designation is made by him, of a county where one
of the parties resides.

§ 826. Where a notice, or other proceeding, is required by
law to be published in a newspaper published in a county,
and no newspaper is published therein, the publication may
be made in a newspaper of an adjoining county, except
where special provision is otherwise made by law.

§ 827. Where a provision of this act authorizes the court
to approve an undertaking, or the sureties thereto; or to
make an examination or inquiry; or to appoint an appraiser,
receiver, or trustee; it may direct a reference for that purpose, to one or more persons designated in the order, either
to report the facts to the court, for its subsequent action, or
to act thereupon. And where, according to the practice of
the court of chancery, on the 31st day of December, 1846, a.
matter was referable to the clerk, or to a master in chancery,
a court having authority to act thereupon, may direct a reference to one or more persons, designated in the order, with
the powers which were possessed by the clerk, or the master
in chancery, except where it is otherwise specially prescribed

by law.

CHAPTER IX.
EVIDENCE.

TITLE I. — GENERAL REGULATIONS nasrmormo EVIDENCE, mp

THE OOMPETENOY AND MODE OF EXAEINATION OF
A WITNESS.

TITLE II. —— Oom>ELLINo THE ATPENDANOE AND rasrmomr or A
wmmss.

TITLE III. —- DEPOSITIONS.

TITLE IV. — Dooumnrranv nrvmmton.

TITLE V. —-‘MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

TITLE I.

General regulcmlons respectmg evidence, and the competency
and mode of ewamination of a wimess.

ARTICLE 1. Oompetency of a witness; evidence in particular cases.
2. Administration of an oath or amrmation.

ARTICLE FIRST.

Conrnrnncv or A Wrnmss; EVIDENCE IN ran-rroumn Casns.

830. 828. No witness to be excluded by reason of interest, etc.

829. When party, etc., cannot be examined.

830. Id.; husband or wife of party, etc.

831. When husband and wife not competent witnesses.

832. Conviction for crime, not to exclude witness; how conviction proved.

833. Clergymen, etc., not to disclose confessions.

834. Physicians not to disclose professional information.
Attorneys and counsellors not to disclose communications.
Application of the last three sections.

When witness not excused from testifying.
Evidence of party may be rebutted.
Admission by member of corporation.

Seal, presumptive evidence of consideration.
841. Presumption of death in certain cases.

§ 828. Except as otherwise specially prescribed in this title, a person shall not be excluded or excused from being

, a witness, by reason of his or her interest in the event of an
action or special proceeding; or because he or she is a party
thereto; or the husband or wife of a party thereto, or of a
person in whose behalf an action or special proceeding is
brought, prosecuted, opposed, or defended.

§ 829. Upon the trial of an action, or the hearing, upon
the merits, of a special proceeding, a party to, or a person
interested in the event of the action or special proceeding;
or a person from, through, or under whom, such a party or
interested person derives his interest or title, by assignment
or otherwise; shall not be examined, as a witness, against
the executor, administrator, or survivor of a deceased person; or the committee of a lunatic; or a person deriving
his title or interest from, through, or under a deceased person or lunatic, by assignment or otherwise; concerning a
personal transaction or communication between the witness
and the deceased person or lunatic, except a transaction or
communication, concerning which the executor, administrator, survivor, committee, or person so deriving title or interest, is examined in his own behalf, or the testimony of the
lunatic or deceased person is given in evidence.

§ 830. The husband or wife of a party or person interested, who cannot be examined concerning a transaction or
communication, as prescribed in the last section, cannot be
examined as a witness, concerning the same transaction or
communication; or a like transaction or communication, between the witness and the deceased person or lunatic.

§ 831. A husband or a wife is not competent to testify
against the other, upon the trial of an action, or the bearing,
upon the merits, of a special proceeding, founded upon an
allegation of adultery; except to prove the marriage. A
wife is not a competent witness for or against her husband,
in an action for criminal conversation. A husband or wife
shall not be compelled to disclose a confidential communication, made by one to the other, during their marriage.

§ 832. A person, who has been convicted of a crime or
misdemeanor is, notwithstanding, a competent witness: but
the conviction may be proved, for the purpose of affecting
the weight of his testimony, either by the record, or by his
cross-examination, upon which he must answer any question,
relevant to that inquiry; and the party cross-examining him
is not concluded, by his answer to such a question.

§ 833. A clergyman, or other minister of any religion,
shall not be allowed to disclose a confession made to him,
in his professional character, in the course of discipline,
enjoined by the rules or practice of the religious body, to
which he belongs.

§ 834. A person, duly authorized to practice physic or
surgery, shall not be allowed to disclose any information
which he acquired in attending a patient, in a professional
capacity, and which was necessary to enable him to act in
that capacity.

§ 835. An attorney or counsellor at law shall not be
allowed to disclose a communication, made by his client to
him, or his advice given thereon, in the course of his professional employment.

§ 836. The last three sections apply to every examination
of a person as a witness, unless the person confessing, the
patient, or the client, as the case requires, is present or represented by counsel, and does not object to the testimony.

§ 837. A competent witness shall not be excused from
answering a relevant question, on the ground only that the
answer may tend to establish the fact, that he owes a debt,
or is otherwise subject to a civil suit. But this provision
doesnot require a witness to give an answer, which will
tend to accuse himself of a crime or misdemeanor, or to

expose him to a penalty or forfeiture ; nor does it vary any
other rule, respecting the examination of a witness.

§ 838. The testimony of a party, taken at the instance of
the adverse party, orally or by deposition, may be rebutted
by other evidence.

§ 839. The admission of a member of an aggregate corporation, who is not a party, shall not be received as evidence

-against the corporation, unless it was made concerning and

while engaged in a transaction, in which he was the authorized agent of the corporation.

§ 840. A seal upon an executory instrument is only presumptive evidence of a sufficient consideration, Which may
be rebutted, as if the instrument was not sealed.

§ 841. A person, upon Whose life an estate in real property depends, who remains Without the United States, or
absents himself, in the State or elsewhere, for seven years
together, is presumed to be dead, in an action or special
proceeding, concerning the property, in which his death
comes in question, unless it is affirmatively proved that he
was alive Within that time.

ARTICLE SECOND.

ADHINIEPRATION OF AN OATH OR AFFIBIIATIOR.

842. Before whom oaths and affidavits may be taken.

843. Id.; in special cases.

844. Id.; without the State.

845. General mode of swearing.

846. When kissing the gospels dispensed with.

847. When amrmation to be made.

848. Other modes of swearing.

849. Swearing persons not Christians.

850. Court may examine witness.

851. Swearing falsely in any form, perjury.

§ 842. An oath or afhdavit, required or authorized by
law; except an oath to a juror or a Witness upon a trial, an
oath of office, and an oath required by law to be taken
before a particular ofBcer; may be taken before a judge,

clerk, deputy-clerk, or special deputy-clerk, of a court, a
notary public, mayor, justice of the peace, surrogate, special
county judge, special surrogate, county clerk, deputy county
clerk, special deputy county clerk, or commissioner of deeds,
within the district in which the officer is authorized to act;
and, when certified by the officer, to have been taken before
him, may be used in any court, or before any officer or other
person.

§ 843. Where an officer, person, board, or committee, has
been heretofore, or is hereafter authorized by law, to take
or hear testimony, or to hear or receive an affidavit, or to
take a deposition, in relation to a matter concerning which
he or it has a duty to perform, the oiiicer or person, or a
member of the board or committee, may administer an
oath, for that purpose. Where an oiiicer, person, board, or
committee, to whom or to which application is made to do
an act in an oiiicial capacity, requires information or proof,
to enable him or it to decide upon the propriety of doing
the act, he or it may take testimony, or receive an affidavit
for that purpose.

§ 844. An oath or affidavit required, or which may be
received, in an action, special proceeding, or other matter,
may be taken, Without the State, except Where it is otherWise specially prescribed by law, before an officer author’ized by the laws of the State, to take and certify the acknowledgment and proof of deeds, to be recorded in the
State; and, when certified by him to have been taken before

him, and accompanied with the like certificates, as to his
oiiicial character and the genuineness of his signature, as
are required to entitle a deed acknowledged before him to
be recorded within the State, may be used, as if taken and
certified, Within the State, by an officer authorized by law
to take and certify the same.

§ 845. The usual mode of administering an oath, now
practiced, by the person who swears laying his hand upon

and kissing the gospels, must be observed, where an oath is

administered, except as otherwise specially prescribed in
this article.

§ 846. The oath must be administered in the following
form, to a person who so desires, the laying of the hand upon
and kissing the gospels being omitted: “You do swear, in
the presence of the ever-living God ”. While so swearing,
he may or may not hold up his hand, at his option.

§ 847. A solemn declaration or afnrmation, in the following form, must be administered to a person who declares
that he has conscientious scruples against taking an oath,
or swearing in any form: “ You do solemnly, sincerely, and

truly, declare and afiirm ”.

§ 848. If the court or officer, before which or Whom a
person is offered as a witness, is satisfied, that any peculiar
mode of swearing, connected With, or in addition to laying
the hand upon and kissing the gospels, is, in his opinion,
more solemn and obligatory, the court or oiiicer may, in its
or his discretion, adopt that mode of swearing the witness.

§ 849. A person, believing in a religion other than the
Christian, must be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of his religion, if any, instead of one of the methods
prescribed in the foregoing sections of this article.

§ 850. The court or officer may examine an infant, or a
person apparently of weak intellect, produced before it or
him, as a witness, to ascertain his capacity and the extent
of his knowledge; and may inquire of a person, produced as
a witness, What peculiar ceremonies in swearing he deems
most obligatory.

§ 851. A person swearing, affirming, or declaring, in any
form, where an oath is authorized by law, is lawfully sworn,

and is guilty of perjury, in a case Where he would be guilty
of the same crime, if he had sworn by laying his hand upon
and kissing the gospels.

TITLE II.
Cbmpelling the attendance and testimony of a witness.

81:0. 852. Mode of serving subpoena issued out of a court.

853. Penalty for disobedience.

854. Subpaana to be issued by judge, etc.

855. Penalty for disobeying subpoena ; warrant for witness.
856. When witness to be imprisoned.

857. Contents of warrant.

858. To whom directed ; how executed.

859. Qualification of preceding sections.

860. Witness exempt from arrest.

861. When to be discharged from arrest.

862. By whom witness may be discharged.

863. Arrest, when void; penalty.

864. Sheriff not to be liable, unless aliidavit is made.
865. Application of foregoing provisions to judgments.

866. Records not to be removed by virtue of subpmna.
867. Id ; books of account.

868. Books, etc., of corporation, how produced.
869. When personal attendance not required by subpoena duces tecum.

§ 852. A subpoena, issued out of the court, to compel the
attendance of a Witness, and, Where the subpoena so requires,
to compel him to bring With him a book or paper, must be
served as follows:

1. The original subpoena must be exhibited to the Witness.

2. A copy of the subpoena, or a ticket containing its substance, must be delivered to him.

3. The fees, allowed by law, for travelling to, and returning from, the place where he is required to attend, and for
one day’s attendance, must be paid or tendered to him.

§ 853. A person so subpoenaed, who fails, without reasonable excuse, to obey the subpoena, or a person who fails,
without reasonable excuse, to obey an order, duly served

upon him, made by the court or a judge, in an action, before
or after final judgment therein, requiring him to attend, and
be examined, or so to attend, and bring With him a book or
a paper, is liable, in addition to punishment for contempt,
for the damages sustained by the party aggrieved in consequence of the failure, and fifty dollars in addition thereto.
Those sums may be recovered in one action, or in separate
actions. If he is a party to the action in which he was
subpoenaed, the court may, as an additional punishment,
strike out his pleading.

§ 854. Where a judge, or an arbitrator, referee, or other
person, or a board or committee, has been heretofore, or is
hereafter expressly authorized by law, to hear, try, or determine a matter, or to do any other act in an official capacity,
in relation to which proofs may be taken, or the attendance
of a person as a witness may be required, or to require a
person to attend, either before him or it, or before another
judge, or oiiicer, or person named in a commission issued by
a court of another state or country, to give testimony or to
have his deposition taken, or to be examined; a subpoena
may be issued, by and under the hand of the judge, arbitrator, referee, or other person, or the chairman, or a majority,
of the board or committee, requiring the person to attend
and also, in a proper case, to bring with him a book or a
paper. The subpoena must be served as prescribed in the
last section but one. This section does not apply to a
matter arising, or an act to be done, in an action in a court
of record. ‘

§ 855. A person Who is duly subpoenaed, as prescribed
in the last section, must obey the subpoena. If he fails so
to do, Without a reasonable excuse, he is liable, in addition
to any other punishment which may be lawfully inflicted
therefore, for the damages sustained by the person aggrieved,
in consequence of the failure, and fifty dollars in addition
thereto, to be recovered as prescribed in the last section
but one. If he fails to attend, the officer, or other person,

or the body, issuing the subpoena, may, upon proof of due
service thereof, and, where it required the witness’s attendance before another person, upon proof of the failure to
attend, must, issue a warrant to the sheriff of the county,
commanding him to apprehend the defaulting witness, and
bring him before the officer, person, or body, before Whom
or which his attendance was required

§ 856. If a person, subpoenaed and attending, or brought,
as prescribed in the last section, before an officer or other
person, or a body, refuses, without reasonable cause, to be
examined; or to answer a legal and pertinent question; or
to produce a book or paper, which he was directed to bring,
by the terms of the subpoena; or to subscribe his deposition, after it has been correctly reduced to writing; the
officer, or other person, or the body, issuing the subpoena,
may, by warrant, commit him to jail, there to remain, until

he submits to do the act which he was so required to do, or
is discharged according to law. '

§ 857. A warrant of commitment, issued as prescribed
in the last section, must specify particularly the cause of
the commitment; and, if the witness is committed for
refusing to answer a question, the question must be inserted
in the Warrant.

§ 858. A warrant to apprehend or commit a person,
issued as prescribed in this title, must be directed to the

sheriff of the county where the person is, and must be executed by him, in the same manner, as a similar mandate
issued, by a court of record, in an action.

§ 859. The foregoing sections of this title do not apply
to a subpoena issued by a justice of the peace; or to a witness subpoenaed to attend a court held by a justice of the
peace; or to a case where special provision is otherwise
made by law, for compelling the attendance of a witness.

§ 860. A person duly and in good faith subpoenaed or
ordered to attend, for the purpose of being examined, in a
case Where his attendance may lawfully be enforced by
attachment, or by commitment, is privileged from arrest in
a civil action or special proceeding, While going to, remaining at, and returning from, the place where he is required
to attend.

§ 861. The court, from which a subpoena, served in good
faith, was issued; or by which an order was made, requiring a person to attend, for the purpose of being examined;
or a judge thereof, upon proof, by affidavit, of the facts,
must make an order, directing the discharge of a Witness
or other person, from an arrest made in violation of the last section.

§ 862. A justice of the supreme court, in any part of the
State, or a county judge, or a judge of a superior city court,
Within his district, has the like authority as a judge of the
court, to make an order for a discharge, in a case specified
in the last section. Upon satisfactory proof, by affidavit,
of the facts, he must also make an order, directing the discharge of a person arrested, in violation of the last section
but one, Where a subpoena, served in good faith upon the
person arrested, Was issued as prescribed in section 854 of
this act.

§ 863. An arrest, made contrary to the foregoing provisions of this title, is absolutely void, and is a contempt of
the court, if any, from which the subpoena Was issued, or by
Which the Witness Was directed to attend. An action may
be maintained, by the person arrested, against the officer or
other person making such an arrest, in which the plaintifff is
entitled to recover treble damages. A similar action may
also be maintained, in a like case, by the party in Whose
behalf the Witness was subpoenaed, or the order procured,
to recover the damages sustained by him, in consequence of
the arrest.

§ 864. But a sheriff, or other officer, or person, is not so
liable, unless the person claiming an exemption from arrest,
makes, if required, an ailldavit, to the effect that he was
legally subpmnaed or ordered to attend, and that he was
not so subpoenaed or ordered by his own procurement, With
the intent of avoiding arrest. He must also either annex to
the affidavit, the copy of the subpoena, or the ticket, or the
copy of the order, delivered to him, or state, in the affidavit,
that it has been lost or destroyed, and specify before What
court, and at What term, or before what officer, and at What
time, it required him to attend, the place of attendance, and
the cause in Which he Was so subpoenaed or ordered. The
affidavit may be taken before’ the officer arresting him, and
exonerates the oilicer from liability for not making the
arrest.

§ 865. The foregoing provisions of this title, relating to a
person required, by an order of a court, to attend, apply,
where such an attendance is required by the terms of a

judgment.

§ 866. The record of a conveyance of real property, or any
other record, or document, whereof a transcript duly certilied
may by law be read in evidence, shall not be removed, by
virtue of a subpoena duces tecum, from the oilice in which it
is kept; except temporarily, by the clerk having it in custody, to a term or sitting of the court of which he is clerk;
or by the officer, having it in custody, to a term or sitting of
a court, or a trial before a referee, held in the city or town
where his office is situated. Where it is required at any
other place, it may be removed, by order of the supreme
court, a superior city court, or a county court, made in court,
and entered in the minutes; specifying that the production
of the original, instead of a transcript, is necessary.

§ 867. A person shall not be compelled, by a subpoena
duces tecum to produce a book of account, belonging to

him, or under his control. In an action, an order, requiring
the production of such a book, may be made by the court,
or a. judge thereof‘, or a county judge, or by a referee
appointed by the court. In a special proceeding, instituted
out of court, a like order may be made by the officer, before
Whom it is pending. The court, judge, referee, or other
officer, may, in its or his discretion, make such an order
Without notice, or require notice of the application for the
order, as it or he thinks proper, to be given to the person

having the control of the book. A justice of the peace,

or other judge of a co1n't not of record, may make such an

order, in an action brought in his court, at any time after
the commencement thereof.

§ 868. The production, upon a trial, of a book or paper,
belonging to or under the control of a corporation, may
be compelled, in like manner as if it Was in the hands,
or under the control, of a natural person. For that purpose, a subpoena duces tecum, or an order, made as prescribed in the last section, as the case requires, must be
directed to the president, or other head of the corporation,

or to the officer thereof, in Whose custody the book or
paper is.

§ 869. In a case specified in the last section, or where a
subpoena duces tecum, or an order, made as prescribed in section 866 or section 867 of this act, requires a public
officer to attend, and bring a book or paper under his control, the subpoena or order is deemed to be sufficiently
obeyed, if the book or paper is produced by a subordinate
officer or employee of the corporation, or in the public office,
Who possesses the requisite knowledge to identify it, and to
testify respecting the purposes for which it is used. If the
personal attendance of a particular officer of the corporation

or public officer is required, a subpoena, Without a duces
tecum clause, must also be served upon him.

TITLE III.
Depositions.

A.n'rIcm 1. Depositions, taken and to be used within the State.
2. Depositions, taken without the State, for use within the State.
3. Depositions, taken within the State, for use without the State.

ARTICLE FIRST.

Dnrosrnons, mxnn AND TO mi: Usnn wrrnnw rm: Burn.

870. Deposition of a party, etc.
871. Deposition of a witness not a party.

872. Application; contents of affidavit.
873. Order for examination.

87$ Subpoena.

875. Service of order, etc.

876. Deposition when and where to be taken.

877. Application to vacate order.

878. Proceedings upon such an application; new order.
879. Deposition by consent. ‘

. 880. Manner of taking and returning deposition.

881. When to be read in evidence.

882. Proof of witness’s inability to attend.

883. Efect of deposition.

884. Original affidavits, evidence. .

885. Deposition to be used on motion.

886. Where witness may be compelled to attend.

§ 870. The deposition of a party to an action, pending
in a court of record of the State, may be taken, at the
instance of an adverse party, or of a co-plaintifff or co-defendant, at any time before the trial, as prescribed in this article.

§ 871. The deposition of a person not a party, Whose
testimony is material and necessary to a party to an action,
pending in a court of record of the State, or to a person
who expects to be a party to an action, about to be brought
in a court of the State, by a person other than the person
to be examined, may also be taken, as prescribed in this article.

§ 872. The person desiring to take a deposition, as pre’ scribed in this article, may present to a judge of the court

in which the action is pending; or, if it is pending in the
supreme court, to a county judge; or, if an action is not
pending, but is expected to be brought, to a judge of the
supreme court, or of a superior city court, or to a county
judge; an affidavit, setting forth as follows:

1. The names and residences of all the parties to the
action, and Whether or not they have appeared; and, if
either of them has appeared by attorney, the name, and
the residence or oiiice address of the attorney; or, if no
action is pending, the names and residences of the expected
parties thereto.

2. The nature of the action, and the substance of the
cause of action, and of the judgment demanded therein;
or, if no action is pending, the nature of the controversy,
which is expected to be the subject thereof.

3. If the application is made by the defendant in a
pending action, or by the plaintifff, after answer, the nature
of the defense.

4. The name and residence of the person to be examined,
and, at the option of the applicant, the place where he is
sojourning, or where he regularly transacts business.

5. That the person to be examined is about to depart
from the State ; or that he is so sick or infirm, as to afford
reasonable ground to believe, that he will not be able to
attend the trial of the action pending, or to be brought, as
the case requires. But this subdivision does not apply to
a case, where the person to be examined is a party to a
pending action.

6. If no action is pending, that the person expected to
be the adverse party is of full age, and a resident of the
State, or sojourning within the State; or, if two or more
persons are expected to be adverse parties, that they are all
so resident or sojourning. .

7. Any other fact, necessary to show that the case comes
within one of the last two sections.

§ 873. The judge, to Whom such an affidavit is presented,
must grant an order for the examination, if ‘an action is
pending; if no action is pending, he must grant it, if there is
reasonable ground to believe that an action will be brought,
as stated in the affidavit; otherwise he must dismiss the
application. The order must require each of the parties to
the action, except the applicant; or, if no action is pending,
each of the persons named in the affidavit, as the expected
adverse parties thereto, to appear before the judge, or before
a referee named in the order, for the purpose of taking the
examination, at a time and place therein specified. The
order must also direct the time of service of a copy thereof;

which must be made Within the State, not more than
twenty, nor less than five days, before the time fixed for
the examination, unless special circumstances, making a
dif‘I'erent time of service necessary, are shown in the affidavit, and that fact is recited in the order.

§ 874. Upon the application of the person desiring to
take the deposition, the judge must also issue a subpoena,
directed to the person to be examined, requiring him to
attend, at the time and place specified in the order. If he
fails to obey the subpoena, his attendance may be compelled, and he may be punished, in like manner, and the

proceedings thereon are the same, as if he failed to obey a

subpoena, issued from the court, in which the action is
pending; or, if no action is pending, from the court of
which the judge is a member. ‘

§ 875. A copy of the order, and of‘ the atiidavit upon
Which it was granted, must be served upon the attorney
for each party to the action, Who is required thereby to
appear, in like manner as a paper in the action; or, if a
party has not appeared in the action, they must be served
upon him, as directed by the order. If no action is pending, they must be personally served upon each of the persons, named therein as expected adverse parties.

§ 876. Upon proof, by affidavit, that service of a copy of
the order and of the affidavit has been duly made, as directed
in the order, the judge or the referee must proceed to take
the deposition of the witness, at the time and place specified in the order. He may, from time to time, adjourn the
examination to another day, and to another place, within
the same county.

§ 877. A party, or a person named as an expected party,
may apply to the judge who granted the order, or, where it
was granted in an action, to him or to the court, for an order
vacating it. The application may be made before, or, if
with due diligence, within a reasonable time after, the deposition has been taken. It must be founded upon proof,
by affidavit, controverting one or more material allegations
of the aiiidavit upon which the order was granted, or showing that a copy was not served in season, to enable the applicant to attend the examination; or that the examination
was not in all respects fair, and -conducted as prescribed in
this title; or, except where the order is for the examination
of a party at the instance of an adverse party, that the
application for the examination was made collusively, and
to avoid an examination on the trial. Upon the presentation of such an affidavit, the judge or the court must make
an order, requiring the person, at whose instance the order
for an examination was granted, to show cause, at a time
and place therein specified, why it should not be vacated.
The order to show cause may also direct the postponement,
to a specified time and place, of an examination which has
not been fully taken.

§ 878. If sumcient cause is not shown, the court or judge
may thereupon vacate the order for an examination; in
which case a deposition taken thereunder shall not be read
in evidence. Or the court or judge may make an order,
designating another time or place, and, in its or his discretion, another judge or referee, for the taking of the deposition, or for a further examination of the witness; or

requiring the party or person, who applied for the order for
an examination, to make such a stipulation in the premises as
justice requires, and, in default thereof, that the order and
the proceedings thereunder be vacated.

§ 879. The parties to an action may stipulate, in Writing,
that the deposition of a competent witness, to be used
therein, may be taken before a judge or referee, at a time
and place specified in the stipulation, either orally, or upon
interrogatories, to be agreed upon in like manner. The
witness may be subpoenaed to attend the examination, as
upon a trial; and the judge ‘or referee may take his deposition, as if an order had been made by the court, directing

' it to be so taken.

§ 880. The judge or referee taking a deposition, as prescribed in this article, must insert therein every answer or
declaration of the person examined, which either party
requires to be inserted. The deposition, when completed;
must be carefully read to and subscribed by the witness;
must be certified by the judge or referee taking it; and,
within ten days thereafter, must be filed in the office of the
clerk; or, if no action is pending, in the office of the
clerk of the county in which it was taken; together with
the stipulation or order, under which it was taken; the aiiidavit upon which the order was granted; and proof of the
service of a copy of the order and of the afhdavit.

§ 881. The deposition, or a certified copy thereof, may
be read in evidence by either party, at the trial of, or
upon the assessment of damages, by writ of inquiry, or
upon a reference, or otherwise, in, the action specified in
the original affidavit or stipulation; or any other action,
thereafter brought, between the same parties, or between
any parties claiming under them, or either of them; or, if
no action is pending, an action, thereafter brought, between
the persons named in the original afhdavit as expected parties, or between persons claiming under them or either of
them.

§ 882. But such a deposition, except that of a party,
taken at the instance of an adverse party, or a deposition

’ taken in pursuance of a stipulation, as prescribed in this

article, shall not be so read in evidence, until it has been
satisfactorily proved, that the witness is dead, or is unable
personally to attend, by reason of his insanity, sickness, or
other infirmity; or that he has been and is absent from the

State, so that his attendance could not, with reasonable
diligence, be compelled by subpoena.

§ 883. A deposition, so read in evidence, has the same
effect, and no other, as the oral testimony of the witness
Would have; and an objection to the competency or credibility of the witness; or to the relevancy or substantial
competency of a question put to him, or of an answer
given by him; may be made, as if the Witness was then
personally examined, and without being noted upon the
deposition.

§ 884. The original affidavits, filed with such a deposition, or certified copies thereof, are presumptive evidence
of the facts therein contained, to show a compliance with
the provisions of this article.

§ 885. Where a party intends to make or oppose a

: motion in a court of record, and it is necessary for him to

have the testimony of a person, not a party, to use upon
the motion, the court, or a judge authorized to make an
order in the cause, may, in its or his discretion, make an
order, appointing a referee to take the deposition of that
person. The order must be founded upon proof, by affidavit, that the applicant intends to make the motion, or
that notice of a motion has been given, which the applicant
intends to oppose. The aiiidavit must specify the nature
of the motion, and must show that the testimony is necessary thereupon. The order may be made upon or without
notice; and it may, in the discretion of the court or judge,

require the adverse party to be notified to attend, and to
have the right of cross-examination, as justice requires.

The person to be examined may be subpoenaed, and com-_

pelled to attend, as upon the trial. The deposition, when
taken, must be delivered to the attorney for the party Who
procured the order, unless the order provides for a diiferent disposition thereof.

§ 886. Where a person to be examined, as prescribed in
this article, is a resident of the State, he shall not be required to attend in any county, other than that in Which he
resides, or Where he has an office for the regular transaction
of business, in person. Where he is not a resident, he shall
not be required to attend in any other county, than that
wherein he is served with a subpoena, unless, for special
reasons, stated in the aiiidavit, the order otherwise directs.

ARTICLE SECOND.

DEPOSITIONS, TAKEN WITHOUT THE STATE, FOR USE WITHIN THE STATE.

887, 888. When commission to issue, etc.

889. How and upon what terms granted.

890. Order made by judge.

891. interrogatories; how settled.

892. Id. ; to be annexed; directions for return.

8933. Commission to examine upon oral questions.

894. When open commission may issue, or depositions may be taken.
895. Last two sections not applicable to infants. etc., or foreign countries.
896. Notice of examination upon oral questions.

897. Open commission.

898. Order directing depositions to be taken.

899. Before whom depositions may be taken; notice of taking.

900. How depositions taken.

901. Commission or order to take depositions; how executed and returned.
902. Certiiicate of execution.

903. Certificate, 9. sumcient return.

904. Return by agent.

905. If agent is sick or dead.

906, 907. Filing deposition, etc., so returned.

908. Commission, etc., by consent.

909. Where return to be kept; parties may inspect it, etc.

910. When deposition may be suppressed.

911. Deposition, etc., evidence.

912. When interrogatories and deposition may be in a foreign language.
918. Letters rogatory.

§ 887. In a case ‘specified in the next section, Where it
appears, by afhdavit, on the application of either party,
that the testimony of one or more witnesses, or of an
adverse party, or of a co-plaintifff or co-defendant, not
within the State, is material to the applicant; a commission
may be issued, to one or more competent persons, named
therein; authorizing them, or any one of them, to examine
the witness or witnesses named therein, under oath, upon
the interrogatories annexed to the commission; to take and
certify the deposition of each witness; and to return the
same, and the commission, according to the directions given
in or with the commission.

§ 888. Such a commission may be issued, in either of the
following cases:

1. Where a party to an action, brought in a court of
record, is in default for Want of an appearance or pleading,
and the testimony is required upon the assessment of damages, by writ of inquiry, or upon a reference; or otherwise,
to enable the court to render the proper final judgment.

2. VVhere final judgment has been rendered against the
adverse party, in an action brought in a court of record;
and the testimony is required, in order to carry the judgment into effect. '

3. Where an appeal from a final judgment, rendered in
the supreme court, a superior city court, the marine court
of the city of New-York, or a county court, or a motion
for a new trial in either of those courts, is pending; and the
testimony will be material and necessary to the applicant,
in the prosecution or defense of the action, if a new trial
is granted.

4. Where the application is made before the joinder of
issue, in an action brought in either of the courts, specified
in the last subdivision; and there is reason to apprehend,
that before issue is joined, and an application for a commission can thereafter be made, the witness will die, or
become unable to give his testimony, or remove, so that his
testimony cannot be taken.

5. Where an issue of fact has been joined, in an action
pending in a court of record, and the testimony is material to the applicant, in the prosecution or defense thereof.

§ 889. In a case specified in subdivision third of the last section, if the appeal has been taken to another court,
the application must be made to the court in which the
judgment was rendered; and an order, directing the commission to be issued, may be granted or refused, in the
discretion of that court. In a case specified in either of the
other subdivisions of that section, the application may be
made to the court, or a judge thereof, or, in the supreme
court, to the county judge of the county, where the ‘action
is triable; and it must be granted, upon satisfactory proof
of the facts authorizing it, unless the court or judge has
reason to believe, that the application is not made in good
faith, or unless an order for an open commission, or for taking depositions, is made as prescribed in this article. Notice
of the application must be given to the adverse party,
unless he is in default for Want of an appearance. Upon
granting the order, the court or judge may, in any case, impose such terms as justice requires.

§ 890. Where the order is made by a judge, out of court,
it must be entered in the office of the clerk. It shall be
granted, only in a case, Where the court would grant it, and

upon the same terms: and it is subject to the control of the
court.

§ 891. Unless the interrogatories, to be annexed to the
commission, are settled by consent of the parties, they must
be settled, upon notice, by a judge of the court, or, in the
supreme court, by the county judge of the county, where
the action is triable, as prescribed in the general rules of
practice.

§ 892. The interrogatories, when settled, must be annexed
to the commission. Either party must be allowed to insert

therein any question, pertinent to the issue, Which he proposes. Unless the parties stipulate in Writing, or the order
granting the commission prescribes, how it shall be returned,
the judge must indorse, upon the commission, the proper
direction for that purpose. Unless the court or judge
thinks proper to direct it to be returned by an agent, it
must be returned through the post-office.

§ 893. Where an issue of fact, joined in an action, is
pending in the supreme court, a superior city court, the
marine court of the city of New-York, or a county court, the
parties may stipulate, in virriting, or the court to Which, or
the udge to Whom an application for a commission is made,
may, in its or his discretion, direct, in the order, that a commission issue Without Written interrogatories, and that the
depositions be taken upon oral questions; or that a commission issue to examine one or more Witnesses, specified therein,
upon Written interrogatories, and one or more Witnesses,
specified therein, upon oral questions.

§ 894. VVhere an issue of fact, joined in an action, is
pending in either of the courts specified in the last section,
the parties may stipulate, in Writing, or the court, or a judge
thereof, or, in the supreme court, the county judge of the
county Where the action is triable, may, in its or his discretion, upon the application of either party, and upon satisfactory proof, by atiidavit, that one or more Witnesses, not
within the State, are material and necessary in the prosecution or defense of the action, make an order, upon such
terms as it or he deems proper, directing thatuan open commission issue, or that depositions be taken, as prescribed in

the following sections of this article.

§ 895. The last two sections are not applicable, Where
the adverse party is an infant, or the committee of a person judicially declared to be incapable of managing his
affairs, by reason of lunacy, idiocy, or habitual drunkenness; or Where the testimony is to be taken elsewhere than
in the United States, or in Canada.

§ 896. Where a. commission is issued, to take testimony
Without Written interrogatories, as prescribed in section
893 or section 894 of this act, notice of the time and place
of the examination of a Witness, by virtue thereof, naming
the Witness, must be served as prescribed in section 899 of

this act.

§ 897. An open commission must be directed to one or
more persons, named therein, and must authorize them, or
any one of them, to examine any Witness Who may be produced by either party, on or before a day specified therein,
upon oral questions to be put to the Witness, when he is
produced; to take and certify the deposition of each Witness so examined; and to return the same, and the commission, immediately after the expiration of the time limited
for the production of Witnesses, according to the directions,

given in or with the commission.

§ 898. An order, directing that depositions be taken, must
specify the time Within Which they must be taken, and the
manner in Which they must be returned.’ It may also contain such additional directions, not inconsistent with the
next section, With respect to the time and manner of giving
notice, as the court or judge deems proper. The order
must be entered in the clerk’s office; and a certified copy
thereof must be annexed to each deposition, or set of
depositions, returned as prescribed in the following sections
of this article.

§ 899. A deposition may be taken, pursuant to such
an order, before a person mutually agreed upon by the
parties, or a chancellor, or a judge of a court of record,
or the mayor or other chief magistrate of a city, or a

justice of the peace of the state or territory, where the
witness is‘; who is not counsel or attorney for either party,
and would not be disqualified, by reason of aftinity or consanguinity to a party, or interest in the event, from serving
as a juror upon the trial of the action, within the State.
Written notice of the time and place of taking a deposition, specifying the name of the witness, and the person
before whom it will be taken, must be served by the party,
at whose instance it is taken, upon the attorney for the
adverse party. The time for serving such a notice must
be, at least, five judicial days before the deposition is taken ;
and one judicial day, in addition, for each fifty miles,’ by the
usual route of travel, between the residence of the attorney
for the adverse party, and the place where the deposition
is to be taken.

§ 900. Upon the examination of a witness, without written interrogatories, by virtue of a commission, or of an order
to take depositions, the commissioner, or the person before
whom the deposition is taken, must take down, or cause to
be taken down, as prescribed in thenext section, the substance of the witness’s testimony; unless he is directed,
in the commission or the order, or required by the person
appearing for either party, to insert in the deposition any or
all of the questions or answers, word for word. Unless the
commission or order otherwise directs, the person, appearing
for either party, may ask any question, which he deems
proper, and the witness’s answer must be taken accordingly ,
the objections thereto being reserved, without being speciiied at the time of examination. A copy of this section,
must be annexed to each commission to take testimony
without written interrogatories, and to each certified copy
of an order to take a deposition. 3

§ 901. The person, to whom a commission is directed, or
before whom a deposition is taken, unless otherwise expressly

= directed in the commission, or in the order for taking the

depositions, must execute the commission, or the order, as
follows: _ I

1. He must publicly administer, to each Witness examined, an oath or affirmation to testify the truth, the Whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, as to the matters respecting which the Witness is to be examined.

2. He must reduce the examination of each Witness to
Writing, or cause it to be reduced to writing, by a disinterested person. After it has been carefully read, to or by
the Witness, it must be subscribed by the Witness.

3. If an exhibit is produced and proved, the exhibit, or
if the Witness, or other person having it in his custody, does
not surrender it, a copy thereof, must be annexed to the
deposition to which it relates, subscribed by the Witness
proving it, and numbered or otherwise identified, in Writing
thereupon, by the commissioner, or person taking the deposi
tion, Who must subscribe his name thereto.

4. The commissioner, or person taking the deposition,
must subscribe his name to each half sheet of the deposition; he must annex all the depositions and exhibits to the
commission, or to a certified copy of the order for taking the
deposition, With the certificate specified in the next section;
and he must close them up under his seal, and address the
packet to the clerk of the court, at his official residence.

5. If there is a direction, on the commission,’ or in the
order, to return the same through the post-office, he must
immediately deposit the packet, so addressed, in the postoffice, and pay the postage thereon.

6. If there is a direction, on the commission, or in the
order, to return the same by an agent of the party, at Whose
instance it was issued or granted, the packet so addressed
must be delivered to the agent.

7. Where a commission is directed to two or more persons, one or more of them may execute it, as prescribed in
this and the next section.

A copy of this and of the next section must be annexed
to each commission, or order to take depositions, authorized
by this article. ‘

§ 902. The commissioner or other person, before Whom

‘one or more depositions are taken, must subscribe and

annex to each deposition, a certificate, substantially in the
following form, the blanks being properly filled up:

“State” (or “territory ”) “of ”
“County” (or “parish ”) “of ” i 88':

“I, , do certify that , the Witness, personally
appeared before me on the day of , at
o’clock in the noon, at the , in the state”
(or “ territory”) “of , and after being sworn ” (or

“affirmed,” as the case may be), “to testify the truth, the *

Whole truth, and nothing but the truth, did depose to the
matters contained in the foregoing deposition, and did, in

my presence, subscribe the same, and indorse the exhibits

annexed thereto. And I further certify that I have subscribed my name to each half-sheet thereof, and to each

exhibit. And I further certify that appeared in
behalf of the , and that appeared in behalf
of the .”

§ 903. The certificate, specified in the last section, is a
sufficient return to a commission.

§ 904. If the packet, specified in section 901 of this act,

is delivered to an agent, he must deliver it to the clerk, to
Whom it is addressed, or to a judge of the court, who must

receive and open it, upon the agent making affidavit, that
he received it from the hands of the commissioner, or the
person Who took the deposition, and that it has not been

opened or altered, since he so received it.

§ 905. If the agent is dead, or, from sickness or other
casualty, is unable to deliver the packet personally, as prescribed in the last section, it must be received, by the clerk
or judge, from the hands of any other person, upon the

latter making an affidavit, that he received it fron1 the
agent; that the agent is dead, or otherwise unable to deliver it; that it has not been opened or altered since he
received it; and that he believes that it has not been opened
or altered, since it came from the hands of the commis'sioner, or the person who took the deposition.

§ 906. The clerk or judge, who receives and opens the

packet, must indorse thereupon, and sign, a note of the time
of the receipt and. opening thereof, and immediately file the

packet in the office of the clerk. If it was received by a

judge, he must file therewith the aiiidavit of the person,
who delivered it to him.

§ 907. If the packet is transmitted through the postoffice, the clerk, to whom it is addressed, must receive it
from the post-of'f1ce, open it, indorse thereupon, and sign, a
like note of the time of the receipt and opening thereof,
and immediately file it in his oiiice. .

§ 908. A commission may issue, or an order to take depositions may be made, by consent, in a case where either

may be directed by the court or a judge, as prescribed in
this article. On filing a stipulation to that effect, signed
by the attorneys for the parties, the clerk must enter an

order accordingly; and thereupon the attorney for the party,
procuring the order, may insert in the commission, or indorse upon or annex to it, or the order, the necessary

directions for the execution and return thereof, according
to the stipulation.

§ 909. A commission, or copy of an order to take depositions, with the certificates, returns, depositions, and exhibits thereto annexed, must remain on file in the office
of the clerk, unless otherwise provided by the stipulation
of the parties, or unless the court, by a special order, directs
them to be filed in the oiiice of another clerk. They
are always open to the inspection of the parties, either of
whom is entitled to a copy of them, or of any part thereof,
on payment of the fees allowed by law.

§ 910. Where it appears, by affidavit, that a deposition has
been improperly or irregularly taken or returned; or that
the personal attendance of the Witness, upon the trial, could
have been procured, with due diligence, by a subpoena; or
that the attorney for either party has practiced any fraud,
or unfair or overreaching conduct, to the prejudice of the
adverse party, in the course of the proceedings; an order,
for the suppression of the deposition, may be made by the
court, upon the application of the party aggrieved, upon
notice to the adverse party.

§ 911. A deposition, taken and returned as prescribed in
this article, or an exemplified copy thereof, if the original is
filed in another county, may, unless it is suppressed as prescribed in the last section, be. read in evidence by either
party. It has the same effect, and no other, as the oral
testimony of the Witness would have ; and an objection to

the competency or credibility of the Witness, or to the rele- .

vancy, or substantial competency, of a question put to him,
or of an answer given by him, may be made, as if the Witness Was then personally examined, and Without being
noted upon the deposition.

§ 912. Upon an application, made in the supreme court,
a superior city court, the marine court of the city of NewYork, or a county court, for a commission to be issued to a
foreign country, if it satisfactorily appears, by affidavit, that
the Witness does not understand the English language, the
order for the commission may, in the discretion of the court
or judge, direct that written interrogatories annexed thereto,
by way of direct and cross-examination, be. framed in the
English language, and also in a foreign language; that only
the interrogatories framed in the foreign language be put to
the witness; and that his answers be taken, and the certificates be made out, in the same language. Where such an
order is made, it must provide for the payment, by the
applicant, to the adverse party, of a reasonable sum, fixed

therein, for the expense of procuring the interrogatories, in

his behalf, to be translated. The judge, Who settles the interrogatories, must settle them in the foreign language, and
in the English language; and, for that purpose, he may call
in the assistance of one or more experts, Whose compensation must be fixed by the judge, and paid by the applicant.
When the deposition is read in evidence, it, and the interrogatories, must be interpreted into the English language,
as if the witness, being unable to speak the English language, was personally present and testifying. '

§ 913. Letters rogatory may be issued from either of the
courts specified in the last section, in its discretion, in a
case Where a commission may be issued, as prescribed in
this article, upon satisfactory proof, by affidavit, that there
is good reason to believe, that the ends of justice Will be
better promoted thereby, than by the issuing of a commission; notwithstanding that a commission can be executed,
in the country to Which they are sent. Letters rogatory
can be issued only to examine one or more Witnesses, upon
Written interrogatories, annexed thereto; which must be
framed and settled, and the depositions must be returned,

as prescribed in this article, With respect to the interrogatories annexed to a commission, and the depositions taken
thereunder.

ARTICLE THIRD.

Dnrosrrtoics, rmnx wrram run STATE, non usn wrrnour rm: Smrn.

914. In what cases deposition may be taken.

915. Subpaana to witness.

916. Contents of subpoena.

917. Subpoena, when no commission is issued.
918. Justice of the peace may subpoena witness.
919. Taking and return of deposition.

920. Penalty for not appearing.

§ 914. A party to an action, suit, or special proceeding,
civil or criminal, pending in a court Without the State,
either in the United States, or in a foreign country, may
obtain, in the manner prescribed in this article, the testimony of a Witness within the State, to be used in the
action, suit, or special proceeding.

§ 915. Where a commission to take testimony, Within the
State, has been issued from the court, in which the action,
suit, or special proceeding is pending; or Where a notice has
been given, or any other proceeding has been taken, for the
purpose of taking the testimony, Within the State, pursuant
to the laws of the state or country, wherein the court is
located, or pursuant to the laws of the United States, if it
is a court of the United States; the commission, notice, or
other paper, authorizing the testimony to be taken, may be
presented, in behalf of the party desiring to obtain it, to a
justice of the supreme court, or a county judge, With proof,
by affidavit, that the testimony of the Witness is material to
the party. The judge must thereupon issue a subpoena to the
witness, commanding him to appear before the commissioner
named in the commission; or before a commissioner,‘ Within
the state, for the state, territory, or foreign country, in
Which the notice Was given, or the proceeding taken; or
before the officer designated in the commission, notice, or
other paper, by his title of oiiice; at a time and place
specified in the subpoena, to testify in the action, suit, or
special proceeding.

§ 916. The place, Where the Witness is commanded to
attend, must be Within the county in which he resides or
sojourns; or, if it is in another county, not more than forty
miles distant from his residence, or the place of his sojourn.

§ 917. Where an action, suit, or special proceeding is
pending in a court of another state, or of a territory, or of
the United States, and proof is made, by afhdavit, to the
satisfaction of a justice of the supreme court, or a county
judge, as follows:

1. That a person, residing or sojourning Within the
State, is a material Witness for either party.

2. That a commission, to take the testimony of the Witness, has not been issued.

3. That, according to the course and practice of the court,
in which the action, suit, or special proceeding is pending,
the deposition of a Witness, taken as prescribed in this section, and the next section but one, will be received on the
trial or hearing.

The judge must issue a subpoena, commanding the witness
to appear before him, at a specified time, and at a place
Within the county in which the Witness resides or sojourns,
to testify in the action, suit, or special proceeding.

§ 918. Where proof is made, by aiiidavit or otherwise.
to the satisfaction of a justice of the peace: I

1. That a civil action, suit, or special proceeding is pending in a court of another state, or of a territory, or of the
United States.

2. That a person, residing or sojourning in the town or
city, in which the justice resides, is a material witness for
either party.

3. That, according to the practice of the court, in Which
the action, suit, or special proceeding is pending, the deposition of a Witness, taken as prescribed in this section, and
the next section, Will be received on the trial or hearing.

The justice must issue a subpoena, commanding the Witness to appear before him, at a specified time, and at a
place Within the town or city, in which the Witness resides or sojourns, to testify in the action, suit or special
proceeding. °

§ 919. The officer, before whom a Witness appears, in a
case specified in this article, must take down his testimony
in Writing; and must certify and transmit it to the court,
in Which the action, suit, or special proceeding is pending,
as the practice of that court requires.

§ 920. A person, who fails to appear, at the time and
place specified in a subpoena, issued as prescribed in this

‘article, and duly served upon him; or to testify; or to subscribe his deposition, When correctly taken down; is liable
to the penalties, which would be incurred in a like case, if
he was subpoenaed to attend the trial of an action in a
j ustice’s court; and, for that purpose, the oiiicer, before
Whom he is required to appear, possesses all the powers of
a justice of the peace upon a trial.

TITLE IV.
Documentary evidence.

ARTICLE 1. Documentary evidence, as a substitute for oral testimony.
2. Proof of a document executed or remaining within the State.
3. Proof of a document remaining in a court or public 0600 of the
United States, or executed or remaining without the State.

\

ARTICLE FIRST.

Docmmmanv Evmmvcn, A8 A SUBSTITUTE FOB onu. Tnsrnrortr.

921. Certain official certificates, evidence.

922. Certificate, etc., on file, evidence.

923. Notary’s certificate, evidence.

924. Notary’s protest and memorandum; when evidence.
925. Proof of presentment, etc., of foreign bills.
926. Afiidavit of printer, etc., evidence.

927. Id.; of service of notice.

928. Marriage certificate, evidence.

929. Book of foreign corporation; when evidence.
930. When a copy thereof is evidence.

931. How copy to be verified.

§ 921. Where the ofHcer, to Whom the legal custody of
a paper belongs, certifies, under his hand and, oiiicial seal,
that he has made diligent examination, in his office, for the
paper, and that it cannot be found, the certificate is presumptive evidence of the facts so certified, as if the officer
personally testified to the same.

§ 922. Where a public officer is required or authorized,
by special provision of law, to make a certificate or an

affidavit, touching an act performed by him, or to a fact

ascertained by him, in the course of his official duty; and
to file or deposit it in a public office of the State; the
certificate or affidavit, so filed or deposited, or an exemplified
copy thereof, is presumptive evidence of the facts therein
alleged, except where the effect thereof is declared or regu.
lated, by special provision of law.

§ 923. The certificate of a notary public of the State,
under his hand and seal of office, of the presentment by
him, for acceptance or payment, or of the protest, for nonacceptance or non-payment, of a promissory note or bill of
exchange, or of the service of notice thereof on a party to
the note or bill; specifying the mode of giving the notice,
the reputed place of residence of the party to Whom it was
given, and the post-office nearest thereto; is presumptive
evidence of the facts certified, unless the party, against
Whom it is offered, has served upon the adverse party,
Within ten days after joinder of an issue of fact, an
original aiiidavit, to the eEect, that he has not received
notice of non-acceptance, or of non-payment of the note or
bill A verified answer is not sufficient as an aiiidavit,

Within the meaning of this section.

§ 924. In case of the death or insanity of a notary public of the State, or of his absence or removal, so that his
personal attendance, or his testimony, cannot be procured, in
any mode prescribed by law, his original protest, under his
hand and oiiicial seal, the genuineness thereof being first
duly proved, is presumptive evidence of a demand of acceptance, or of payment, therein stated; and a note or
memorandum, personally made or signed by him, at the
foot of a protest, or in a regular register of oiiicial acts,
kept by him, is presumptive evidence that a notice of nonacceptance or non-payment Was sent or delivered, at the
time, and in the manner, stated in the note or memorandum.

§ 925. Proof of the presentment, for acceptance or payment, of a promissory note or bill of exchange, payable in
another state, or in a territory, or foreign country, or of a
protest of the note or bill, for non-acceptance or non-payment, or of the service of notice thereof, on a party to the
note or bill, may be made, in any manner_ authorized by
the laws of the state, territory, or country, where it was
payable.

§ 926. The affidavit of the printer or publisher of a
newspaper, published within the State, or of his foreman

or principal clerk, showing the publication of a notice or
other advertisement, authorized or required, by a law of
the State, to be published in that newspaper, annexed to a
printed copy of the notice or other advertisement, taken
from the paper, may be read in evidence; and is presumptive evidence of the publication, and, also, of the mat»
ters stated therein, showing that the deponent is authorized
to make the affidavit. But this section does not apply to a
case, where the aiiidavit is required by law to be filed,
unless it has been duly filed; or to a case, where the mode
of proving a publication is specially prescribed in this act.

§ 927. Where it is necessary, upon the trial of an action,
to prove the service of a notice, an aiiidavit, showing the
service to have been made by the person making the affidavit, is presumptive evidence of the service, upon first
proving that he is dead or insane, or that his personal
attendance cannot be compelled, with due diligence.

§ 928. An original certificate of a marriage, within the
State, made by the minister or magistrate by whom it was
solemnized; the original record thereof, made, pursuant to
law, in the office of the clerk of a city or a town, within the
State; or a copy of the certificate, or of the record, duly
certified, is presumptive evidence of the marriage.

§ 929. Where a party wishes to prove an act or transaction of a foreign corporation, the book or books of the
corporation may be used for that purpose, as presumptive
evidence, whether any or all of the parties are or are not
members of the corporation.

§ 930. If an original book is not produced at the trial,
as prescribed in the last section, a copy thereof, or of
an entry therein, verified as prescribed in the next section, may be used, with like effect as the original book;
provided that the party, intending to use the copy, gives
the adverse party at least ten days’ notice of his intention, specifying briefly the nature of the evidence proposed to be given. But this and the next section do not
apply, where the foreign corporation is a party to the
action, and seeks to prove its own act or transaction, in its
own behalf.

§ 931. The copy must be verified by the deposition,
taken as prescribed by law, or the oral testimony, taken at
the trial, of the person who made it, or of a person who has
examined and compared it with the original book, or the
entry therein. The xvitness must testify that the copy produced is correct; that he made it, or compared it with the
original; and that he then knew that the original book so
copied, or containing the entry, was the book of the corporation; or that it was then acknowledged to him to be
such, by an officer or receiver of the corporation, or a person having the custody thereof, naming the person who
made the acknowledgment; and he must specify where, and
in whose custody, the original was then kept.

ARTICLE SECOND.

Pnoor or A Dooumnrr, nmournn on nnmrnms wrrnnt '1-ma Svrurn.

Site. 932. Statutes, etc.; how proved.

983. Copies of records and papers in certain offices, presumptive evidence.
934. Id.; of papers filed with town clerk.

935. Conveyance. when acknowledged, or record, or transcript of record,
evidence.

936. Such evidence may be rebutted.

937. What instruments may be acknowledged.
938. J ustice’s docket and transcript evidence before him.

939. Transcript from justice’s docket, evidence generally.
940. Other proof of proceedings before justice.
941. Charter, ordinances, etc., of cities and villages.

§ 932. A statute or joint resolution, passed by the legislature of the State, may be read in evidence from a newspaper, designated, as prescribed by law, to publish the
same, until six months after the close of the session at

which it Was passed; or, at any time, from a volume printed
under the direction of the secretary of State.

§ 933. A copy of a paper filed, kept, entered, or recorded,
pursuant to law, in a public oiiice of the State, the oilicer
having charge of which has, pursuant to law, an official
seal; or with the clerk of a court of the State; or with the
clerk or secretary of either house of the legislature, or of
any other public body or public board, created by authority
of a law of the State, and having, pursuant to law, a
seal; or a transcript from a record, kept, pursuant to law,
in such a public oilice, or by such a clerk or secretary, is
evidence, as if the original was produced. But to entitle
it to be used in evidence, it must be certified by the clerk
of the court, under his hand and the seal of the court; or
by the officer having the custody of the original; or by his
deputy or clerk, appointed pursuant to law; or by the presiding oiiicer, secretary, or clerk of the public body or
board, appointed pursuant to law, under his hand, and,
except Where it is certified by the clerk or secretary of
either house of the legislature, under the official seal of the
body or board.

§ 934. A copy of a paper filed, pursuant to law, in the

. office of a town clerk, or a transcript from a record kept

therein, pursuant to law, certified by the town clerk, is
evidence, With like effect as the original.

§ 935. A conveyance, acknowledged or proved, and certified, in the manner prescribed by law, to entitle it to be
recorded in the county where it is offered, is evidence, without further proof thereof. Except as otherwise specially
prescribed by law, the record of a conveyance, duly recorded, within the State, or a transcript thereof, duly certified, is evidence, with like effect as the original conveyance.

5

§ 936. The certificate of the acknowledgment, or of the
proof of a conveyance, or the record, or the transcript of
the record, of such a conveyance, is not conclusive; and it
may be rebutted, and the effect thereof may be contested,
by a party affected thereby. If it appears that the proof
was taken upon the oath of an interested or incompetent
witness, the conveyance, or the record or transcript thereof,
shall not be received in evidence, until its execution is
established by other competent proof.

§ 937. Any instrument, except a promissory note, a bill
of exchange, or a last will, may be acknowledged, or
proved, and certified, in the manner prescribed by law for
taking and certifying the acknowledgment or proof of a
conveyance of real property; and thereupon it is evidence,
as if it was a conveyance of real property.

§ 938. The docket-book of a justice of the peace, within
the State, or a transcript thereof, certified by him, is evidence before him, of any matter required by law to be
entered by him therein.

§ 939. A transcript from the docket-book of a justice of
the peace, within the State, subscribed by him, and authenticated, by a certificate of the clerk of the county in which the
justice resides, under his hand and official seal, to the effect,
that the person, subscribing the transcript, was, at the date
of the judgment therein mentioned, a justice of the peace of
that county; and that the clerk is acquainted with his handwriting, and verily believes that the signature to the

transcript is genuine; is evidence of any matter stated in

the transcript, which is required by law to be entered by
the justice in his docket-book.

§ 940. The proceedings in an action brought, or a special
proceeding instituted, before a justice of the peace, within
the State, may also be proved by the oath of the justice.
In case of his death or absence, they may be proved by the
original minutes of the proceedings, entered in a book kept
by him, pursuant to law, accompanied With proof of his
handwriting; or by copies of the minutes, sworn to, by a
competent witness, as having been compared with the original entries, With proof that those entries Were in the handwriting of the justice.

§ 941. The charter, other than a statute, or an act,
ordinance, resolution, by-law, rule, or proceeding of the
common council of a city, or of the board of trustees of an
incorporated village, Within the State, may be read in evidence, either from a copy thereof, certified by the city clerk,
village clerk, or clerk of the common council; or from a.
volume, printed by authority of the common council of the

city, or the board of trustees of the village.

ARTICLE THIRD.

Pnoor or A Docummr, REMAINING m A COURT on PUBLIC On-non or run
Unrrnn Smrns, on EXECUTED on nnuammo WITHOUT run Burn.

942. Printed copies of laws of another state, etc.

943. Copies of records of United States courts.

944. Id.; of documents on file in departments of United States.

945. Record of bill of sale, etc., of vessels.

946. Conveyance of land without the State.

947. Exempliiication of record of conveyance of land without the State.
948. Transcript of docket, etc., of justice of adjoining state.

949. Id.; how authenticated.

950. Other proof.

951. Proof may be rebutted.

952. Copies of records of courts of foreign countries; how authenticated.
958. Other proof.

954. This title does not declare effect of record, etc.

955. Judgments in Canada, presumptive evidence only.

956. Documents from foreign countries; how authenticated.

§ 942. A printed copy of a statute, or other written law,
of another state, or of a territory, or of a foreign country, or a printed copy of a proclamation, edict, decree, or
ordinance, by the executive power thereof, contained in a
book or publication, purporting or proved to have been
published by the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted, as evidence of the existing law, in the
judicial tribunals thereof, is presumptive evidence of the
statute, law, proclamation, edict, decree, or ordinance. The
unwritten or common law of another state, or of a territory,
or of a foreign country, may be proved, as a fact, by oral
evidence. The books of reports of cases, adjudged in the
courts thereof, must also be admitted, as presumptive evidence of the unwritten or common law thereof.

§ 943. A copy of the record, or any other proceeding, of
a court of the United States, is evidence, when certified
by the clerk or officer, in whose custody it is required by
law to be.

§ 944. A copy of a record or other paper, remaining in
a department of the government of the United States, is

evidence, when certified by the head, or acting chief olhcer,
for the time being, of that department.

§ 945. The record of a bill of sale, mortgage, hypothecation, or conveyance of a vessel, belonging to a port or
place, within the United States, recorded in the office of
the collector of customs, where the vessel is registered r
enrolled, which was acknowledged or proved, before it W
recorded, in like manner as a deed to be recorded within
the State; or a transcript of such a record, duly certified by
the collector; is evidence, with the like effect as the

original.

§ 946. A conveyance of real property, situated Without
the State, acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like
manner as a deed to be recorded within the county wherein

it is offered in evidence, is evidence, Without further proof
thereof, as if it related to real property situated Within
the State. A conveyance of real property, situated Within
another state, or Within a territory of the United States,
Which has been duly authenticated, according to the laws
of that state or territory, so as to be read in evidence in
the courts thereof, is evidence in like manner.

§ 947. An exemplihcation of the record of a conveyance
of real property situated Without the State, and Within the
United States, Which has been recorded in the state or
territory, Where the real property is situated, pursuant to
the laws thereof, when certified under the hand and seal
of the officer, having the custody of the record, is, if the
original cannot be produced, presumptive evidence of the
conveyance, and of the due execution thereof.

§ 948. A transcript from the docket-book of a justice
of the peace, Within an adjoining state, of a judgment

4 rendered by him; a transcript of his minutes of the proceedings in the cause, previous to the judgment; or of an
execution issued thereon; or of the return of an execution;
when subscribed by the justice, and authenticated as prescribed in the next section, is presumptive evidence of his
jurisdiction in the cause, and of the matters shown by the

transcript.

§ 949. Such a transcript must be authenticated by a certificate of the justice, annexed thereto, to the effect, that it
if in all respects correct, and that he had jurisdiction of the
cause; and also by a certificate of the clerk or prothonotary
of the county, in which the justice resided at the time of
rendering the judgment, under his hand and the seal of the
court of common pleas, or other county court of the county, to
the effect that the person, subscribing the certificate attached
to the transcript, Was, at the date of the judgment, a justice
of the peace of that county; and that the signature thereto
is in his own handwriting.

§ 950. The judgment and other proceedings, and the
justice’s authority to render the judgment, may also be
proved, by the production of the docket, or of a copy of the
judgment or other proceedings; and the oral testimony of
the justice, to the truth and correctness thereof, and to his
authority to render the judgment.

§ 951. The last three sections do not prevent the introduction of evidence, to controvert any of the proof, in
relation to the validity of a judgment therein specified

§ 952. A copy of a record, or other judicial proceeding,
of a court of a foreign country, is evidence, when authenticated as follows:

1. By the attestation of the clerk of the court, with the
seal of the court afhxed, or of the officer in Whose custody
the record is legally kept, under the seal of his office.

2. By a certificate of the chief-judge or presiding magistrate of the court, to the effect, that the person, so attesting
the record, is the clerk of the court; or that he is the officer,
in Whose custody the record is required by law to be kept;
and that his signature to the attestation is genuine.

3. By the certificate, under the great or principal seal of
the government, under whose authority the court is held,
of the secretary of state, or other officer having the
custody of that seal, to the effect, that the court is duly
constituted, specifying generally the nature of its jurisdiction; and that the signature of the chief-judge or presiding

magistrate, towthe certificate specified in the last subdivision, is genuine.

§ 953. A copy of a record, or other judicial proceeding,
of a court of a foreign country, attested by the seal of the
court, in which it remains, must also be admitted in evidence, upon due proof of the following facts:

1. That the copy offered has been compared by the Witness with the original, and is an exact transcript of the
whole of the original. ‘

2. That the original Was, when the copy was made, in
the custody of the clerk of the court, or other officer legally
 charge of it.

3. That the attestation is genuine.

§ 954. Nothing in this article is to be construed, as declaring the effect of a record or other judicial proceeding
of a foreign country, authenticated, so as to be evidence,
except as otherwise prescribed in the next section.

§ 955. A judgment of a court, in the dominion of Canada,
is presumptive evidence only of the debt, or other cause
of action, on which it is founded; and, in an action thereupon, the defendant may set up, in his answer, and prove
upon the trial, any fact Which constitutes a defense or
counterclaim to the debt, or other cause of action, upon
which the judgment was rendered. But this section does

not apply to a judgment, which has been rendered after
both parties thereto have appeared, and have given evidence in the action.

§ 956. A copy of a patent, record, or other document,
remaining of record, in a public office in a foreign country,
is evidence, when it is certified to be a copy, according to
the form in use in that country. The certificate of a commissioner, appointed by the governor of the State, to take
the proof or acknowledgment of deeds in the foreign country, under his hand and official seal, and authenticated by
the secretary of State, as prescribed by law, to the effect,
that the original so remains of record, and that the copy
has been certified according to the form in use in the foreign country, is presumptive evidence of the matters stated
therein.

TITLE V.

Miscellaneous 

SIG. 957. Form of certificate to copies, etc.

958. Certificate must be sealed.

959. Qualification of last section.

960. Public or corporate seal may be stamped; but private seal not.
961. Surrogates. clerks, etc., to search files, and. to certify, etc.

962. Saving clause.

§ 957. Where a transcript, exemplification, or certified
copy of a record or other paper, is declared by law to be
evidence, and special provision is not made for the form of
the certificate, in the particular case, the person, authorized
to certify, must state, in his certificate, that it has been
compared by him with the original, and that it is a correct
transcript therefrom, and of the Whole of the original.

§ 958. If the officer, or the court, body, or board, in
Whose custody an original paper, specified in the last section, is required to be, by the laws of the State,
or of another state, or of the United States, or of a territory thereof, or of a foreign country, has, pursuant to
those laws, an ofiicial seal, the certificate must be attested
by that seal. If the certificate is made by the clerk of a
county, Within the State, it must be attested by the seal of
the county.

§ 959. The last section does not require the seal of a
court to be affixed to a certified copy of a judgment or
order, or of a paper filed, or entry made, Where the copy
is used in the same court, or before an officer thereof; or,
in the supreme court, Where it is used in a circuit court, or
a court of oyer and terminer.

§ 960. Where a seal of a public officer, or of a corporation, is authorized or required by law, it may be affixed,
by making an impression directly on the paper. But the

private seal of a natural person must be made, as heretofore, on wafer, wax, or a similar substance.

§ 961. A surrogate, county clerk, register, clerk of a
court, or other person, having the custody of the records
or other papers in a public oiiice, within the State, must,
upon request, and upon payment of, or offer to pay, the
fees allowed by law, or, if no fees are expressly allowed by
law, fees at the rate allowed to a county clerk for a similar
service, diligently search the files, papers, records, and
dockets in his office; and either make one or more transcripts therefrom, and certify to the correctness thereof,
and to the search, or certify that a document or paper, of
which the custody legally belongs to him, cannot be found.
If he refuses, or unreasonably neglects or delays, to make
such a search, or to furnish such a transcript or certificate,
or makes a false certificate, he is guilty of a misdemeanor.

§ 962. Nothing in title fourth of this chapter prevents
the proof of a fact, act, record, proceeding, document, or
other paper or writing, according to the rules of the com~
mon law, or by any other competent proof.

CHAPTER X.
TRIALS; INCLUDING JURORS AND JURIES.

TITLE I. — TR1ALs GENERALLY; INCLUDING EXCEPTIONS AND
MOTION FOR A NEW TRIAL.

TITLE II. — TR1ALs WITHOUT A JURY.

TITLE III. — TRIAL JURoRs, EXCEPT IN N Rw-YoRK AND KINGS

COUNTIES; MODE OF SELECTING THEM, AND OF PROOURING THEIR ATTENDANCE.

TITLE IV.—TR1AL JURORB IN N Ew-Yonx AND Kmos ooUN'r1Es;

MODE OF SELECTING THEM, AN I) OF PROOURING THEIR
ATTENDANCE.

TITLE V. —TR1AL BY JURY.

TITLE VI. — M1soRLLANRoUs PRovIsIoNs; INOLUDING moss: RELATING T0 mn3RAon:RY AND OTHER Aors or msooNnuo'r.

TITLE I.

1}-ials genoralby ; including ézvoeptions and motion for a
new trial.

ARTICLE 1. Issues, and the mode of trial thereof.
2. The place of trial.

8. Exceptions, cases. and motion for a new trial.

ARTICLE FIRST.

IBSUES, AND rrm Mom: or TRIAL manner.

S190. 963. Issues defined; different kinds of issues.

964. When issues of law arise ; when issues of fact arise.
965. Issues to be judicially examined by a trial.

966. Order of trial, where issues of law and of fact arise in the same action.

967. But court may direct the order, etc., of disposition of the issues.
968. What issues of fact are triable by a jury.

969. What issues are triable by the court.

970. Order for trial by jury, of speciiic questions of fact, when of right.

971. Id.; when discretionary.

972. Trial of the remainder of the issues.

978. Mode of trial, where complaint demands alternative judgments.
974. Counterclaim to be deemed an action, within the foregoing sections.
975. Immaterial issues need not be tried.

976. What issues to be tried before one judge; regulation of trial in the
supreme court.

977. Notice of trial and note of issue.

978. Order of disposition of issues at a jury term.

979. Id.; when a jury does not attend.

980. Either party may bring issue to trial.

981. What papers to be furnished on trial, and by whom.

§ 963. The issues, treated of in this chapter, are those
only Which are presented by the pleadings. They arise
where a fact, or a conclusion of law, is maintained by one
party, and controverted by the other. They are of two
kinds: .

1. Of law; and

2. Of fact.

§ 964. An issue of law arises only upon a demurrer. An
issue of fact arises, in either of the following cases:

1. Upon a denial, contained in the answer, of a material
allegation of the complaint; or upon an allegation, contained in the answer, that the defendant has not sufficient
knowledge or information to form a belief, with respect to
a material allegation of the complaint.

2. Upon a similar denial or allegation, contained in the
reply, with respect to a material allegation of the answer.

3. Upon a material allegation of new matter, contained
in the answer, not requiring a reply; unless an issue of law
is joined thereupon.

" 4. Upon a material allegation of new matter, contained
in the reply; unless an issue of law is joined thereupon.

§ 965. An issue, either of law or of fact, must be judicially examined by means of a trial, as prescribed in this chapter; unless it is disposed of upon a motion, or upon
exceptions, as prescribed in chapter sixth of this act.

§ 966. Where an- issue of law and an issue of fact arise
in one action, the issue ‘ of law must be first disposed of,
except as otherwise prescribed in the next section. Where
there are two or ‘more defendants, pleading separately, an
issue of law, arising upon a pleading of one or more, and
not of all the defendants, may be tried separately, at the
option of either party; but where all the issues of fact are
triable in the same manner, they must be tried at the same
time, except as otherwise prescribed in this article.

§ 967. A separate trial, between the plaintifff and one
or more defendants, of some or all of the issues of fact,
or one trial of some or all of the issues of law, or a change
in the order of disposition of the issues, prescribed in the
last section, may be directed by the court, whenever,
in its opinion, justice will be promoted thereby. Such a
direction may be given, in an. order, made upon notice;
or, except where an application for such an order has been
denied, it may be_ given, by the judge holding the term,
where those issues are regularly upon the calendar for
trial, either with or without the entry of an order.

§ 968. In each of the following actions, an issue of fact
must be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial is waived, or a
reference is directed:

1. An action to recover a sum of money only.

2. An action of ejectment; for dower; for waste; for a nuisance ; or to recover a chattel.

§ 969., An issue of law, in any action, and an issue of fact,
in an action not specified in the last section, or wherein
provision for a trial by a  is not expressly made by law,
must be tried by the court, unless a reference or a jury
trial is directed.

§ 970. Where a party is entitled, by the constitution, or j
by express provision of law, to a trial, by a jury, of one or;

more issues of fact, in an action not specified in section
968 of this act, he may apply to the court for an order,
directing all the questions, arising upon those issues, to be
distinctly and plainly stated for trial accordingly. Notice
of the application must be served, within twenty days after
joinder of issue. The party omitting to serve the notice
within that time, is deemed to have waived his right to a
trial by a jury, unless notice of such an application has been
seasonably served by the adverse party ; in which case, if
the party serving the notice fails to make the application,
at the term for which it is noticed, the adverse party may
serve a like notice, on his part, within twenty days after
the adjournment of the term. Upon the hearing of the
application, the court must cause the issues, to the trial of
which, by a jury, the party is entitled, to be distinctly and
plainly stated. The subsequent proceedings are the same,
as where questions, arising upon the issues, are stated for
trial by a jury, in a case where neither pa.rty can, as of right,
require such a trial; except that the finding of the jury,
upon each question so stated, is conclusive in the action,
unless the verdict is set aside, or a new trial is granted.

§ 971. In an action, not specified in section 968 of this
act, where a party is not entitled, as of right, to a trial by
a jury, or where a party has omitted to apply for a trial by
a jury, as prescribed in the last section, the court may, in
its discretion, upon the application of either party, direct
that one or more questions of fact, arising upon the issues,
be tried by a jury, and may cause those questions to be distinctly and plainly stated for trial accordingly.

§ 972. If the questions, directed to be tried by a jury, as
prescribed in the last two sections, do not embrace all the
issues of fact in the action, the remaining issues of fact
must be tried by the court, or by a referee, separately from
the trial by the jury, and either before or after the trial
by the jury, as the court directs.

§ 973. Where the complaint demands two kinds of judgment, in the alternative, as prescribed in chapter sixth of
this act, the plaintifff’s attorney may, vsgithin ten days after
the joinder of issue, serve upon the defendant’.s attorney, a
notice, that the plaintifff abandons the demand for one kind
of judgment, specifying it distinctly. In that case, the
subsequent proceedings in the action must be the same, as
if the demand for that kind of judgment had not been contained in the complaint. If the plaintifff’s attorney does not
serve such a notice, the court, upon the application of either
party, must direct the trial, by a jury, of specific questions of
fact, arising upon the issues. In settling them, the court must
provide for the trial, by the jury, of all the issues, the determination of which fixes the character of the judgment, to
which the plaintifff is entitled ; and, also, in a proper case,
for determining, by the verdict, the amount or extent
of the recovery, contingently or absolutely, as the case
requires.

§ 974. Where the defendant interposes a counterclaim,
and thereupon demands an aihrmative judgment against
the plaintifff, the mode of trial of an issue of fact, arising
thereupon, is the sa' :1e, as if it arose in an action, brought
by the defendant, against the plaintifff, for the cause of
action stated in the counterclaim, and demanding the same
judgment; and each provision of the last four sections
applies to such an issue of fact, and to the trial thereof;
except that, if the court directs one or more specific questions of fact, involved in that issue, to be tried by a jury,
it may, in a proper case, direct that the trial thereof, and
of the issue of fact, arising upon the complaint, take place
at the same time.

§ 975. An issue, the disposition of which is not necessary to enable the court to render the appropriate judgment, is not required to be tried.

§ 976. An issue of law, or an issue of fact, triable by a
‘jury or by the court, must be tried at a term held by one
judge only, except as otherwise prescribed in section 297
of this act. In the supreme court, an issue of fact, triable
by a jury, must be tried in the circuit court; and an issue of
fact, triable by the court, or an issue of law, may be tried
in the circuit court, or at a special term of the supreme
court, as prescribed in the general rules of practice.

§ 977. At any time after the joinder of issue, and at least
fourteen days before the commencement of the term, either
party may serve a notice of trial. The party serving the
notice must file with the clerk a note of issue, stating the title of the action; the names of the attorneys; the time
when the last pleading was served; the nature of the issue,
whether of fact or of law; and, if an issue of fact, whether
it is triable by a jury, or by the court, without a jury. The
note of issue must be filed, at least eight days before the
commencement of the term; unless'a different time is prescribed in the general rules of practice. The clerk must
thereupon enter the cause upon the calendar, according to
the date of the issue. In the city and county of N ew-York,
where a party has served a noticeof trial, and filed a note of
issue, for a term, at which the cause is not tried, it is not
necessary for him to serve a new notice of trial, or file a
new note of’ issue for a succeeding term; and the action
must remain on the calendar until it is disposed of.

§ 978. The issues on the calendar must be arranged by
the clerk, in the following order:

1. Issues of fact, to be tried by a 

2. Issues of fact, to be tried by the court.

3. Issues of law.

Where a jury is in attendance, the issues must be disposed
of in the same order; unless, for the convenience of parties,
or the dispatch of business, the judge holding the term
otherwise directs.

§ 979. Where a jury is not in attendance, issues of law
have a preference over issues of fact; unless the judge holding the term otherwise directs.

§ 980. Either party, who has served the notice, may bring
the issue to trial; and, in the absence of the adverse party,
unless the judge holding the term, for good cause, otherwise
directs, may proceed with the cause, and take a dismissal
of the complaint, or a verdict, decision, or judgment, as the
case requires.

§ 981. Where the issue is brought to trial by the plaintifff, he must furnish the court with copies of the summons
and pleadings, and of the offer, if any has been made.
Where the issue is brought to trial by the defendant, and

the plaintifff does not furnish those papers, they must be
furnished by the defendant.

ARTICLE SECOND.

THE PLACE or TRIAL.

982. Certain actions to be tried. where the subject thereof is situated.

988. Other actions, where the cause thereof arose.

984. Other actions, according to the residence of the parties.

985. Place of trial, if proper county not designated.

986. Defendant may demand change; proceedings thereupon.

987. When court may change the place of trial.

988. Efect of changing the place of trial.

989. E&ect of order changing place of trial.

990. Issues of law, where triable.

991. This article applicable only to the supreme court.

§ 982. Each of the following actions must be tried in
the county, in which the subject of the action, or some part
thereof, is situated: an action of ejectment; for the partition of real property; for dower; to foreclose a mortgage
upon real property, or upon a chattel real; to compel the
determination of a claim to real property; for Waste; for a
nuisance; or to procure a judgment, directing a conveyance
of real property; and every other action to recover, or to

procure a judgment, establishing, determining, defining, forfeiting, annulling, or otherwise affecting, an estate, rigl\ title, lien, or other interest, in real property, or a chatte}
real. But where all the real property, to which the action
relates, is situated without the State, the action must be
tried, as prescribed in section 984 of this act.

§ 983. An action, for either of the following causes, must
be tried in the county, where the cause of action, or some

part thereof, arose:

1, To recover a penalty or forfeiture, imposed by static,
in a case not specified in the next subdivision of this s -‘
tion; except that, where the offense, for which it is imposed,
was committed on a lake, river, or other stream of water,
situated in two or more counties, the action may be tried
in any county, bordering on the lake, river, or stream, and
opposite to the place where the offense was committed.

2. Against a public officer, including a person specially
appointed to execute his duties, for an act done, in virtue
of his office, or for an omission to perform a duty, incident
to his office; or against a person, who, by the command or
in the aid of a public oiiicer, has done any thing touching
his duties.

3. To recover a chattel distrained, or damages for distraining a chattel.

§ 984. An action, not specified in the last two sections,
must be tried in the county, in which one of the parties .
resided, at the commencement thereof. If neither of the
parties then resided in the State, it may be tried in.any
county, which the plaintifff designates, for that purpose, in
the title of the complaint.

§ 985. If the county, designated in the complaint, as the
place of trial, is not the proper county, the action may notwithstanding be tried therein; unless the place of trial is
changed to the proper county, upon the demand of the
defendant, followed by the consent of the plaintifff, or the
order of the court.

§ 986. Where the defendant demands that the action be
tried in the proper county, his attorney must serve upon
the plaintifff’s attorney, with the answer, or before service
of the answer, a Written demand accordingly. The demand
must specify the county, where the defendant requires the
action to be tried. If the plaintifff’s attorney does not
serve his written consent to the change, as proposed by the
defendant, within five days after service of the demand,
the defendant’s attorney may, within ten days thereafter,
serve notice of a motion to change the place of trial.

§ 987. The court may, by order, change the place of
trial, in either of the following cases: '

1. Where the county, designated for that purpose in the
complaint, is not the proper county.

2. Where there is reason to believe, that an impartial
trial cannot be had in the proper county.

3. Where the convenience of witnesses, and the ends of
justice, will be promoted by the change.

§ 988. Where the place of trial is changed to another
county, the effect of the change, with respect to the subsequent proceedings, is the same, as if that county had been
designated in the complaint, as the place of trial; except as
otherwise directed by the court, or provided by the written
consent of the parties, filed with the clerk. And the clerk
of the county, from which it is changed, must forthwith
deliver to the clerk of the county, to which it is changed,

all papers filed in the action, and certified copies of all

minutes and entries relating thereto, which must be filed,
entered, or recorded, as the case requires, in the office of
the last named clerk.

§ 989. An order to change the place of trial takes effect,
upon the entry thereof, in the office of the clerk of the
county, from which the place of trial is changed. A motion
to set it aside, or an appeal therefrom, must be heard, as if
the action was originally triable in the county, to which the

place of trial is changed. Where the order is reversed or
set aside, the effect is the same, as if an order was then
made, to change the place of trial to the county where the
action Was formerly triable.

§ 990. An issue of law may be tried in any county,
Within the judicial district, embracing the county wherein
the action is triable; but after the trial, the decision, and
all other papers relating to the trial, must be filed, and the
order made, or -judgment rendered, must be entered in the
last named county.

§ 991: This article is applicable to an action in the
9 supreme court only.

ARTICLE THIRD.

Exam-rrons, Casns, AND MOTION FOR A Nnw Tarn.

What rulings may be excepted to.
Refusal of court or referee, to iind upon facts may be excepted to.

994. When and how exceptions may be taken, after close of trial by court or

995.
996.
997.
998.
999.

1000.

1001.
1002.

-1003.

1004.
1005.

1006.
1007.

referee.

Id.; during the trial, or upon trial by jury.

Ruling excepted to; how reviewed.

Case, when necessary; how made and settled.

When appeal, etc., may be heard without a case.

Motion for new trial upon judge's minutes; appeal from order thereupon.

When and how exceptions, taken upon a jury trial, heard at general
term.

Motion for new trial at general term, when trial was by court or referee.

When motion for new trial to be made at special term. Restrictions
thereupon.

Application of this article to trials of specidc questions by jury; special
provisions applicable thereto.
Motion for new hearing, after trial of specific questions by a referee.
Final judgment, etc., not stayed, by motion fora new trial. Motion may
be heard afterwards.
When exception not to prejudice motion for new trial.
Notes of stenographer may be treated as minutes of the judge.

§ 992. An exception may be taken to the ruling of the
court or of a referee, upon the trial of an issue of fact.
Except as prescribed in section 1180 of this act, an exception cannot be taken to a ruling, upon a question of fact.
For the purposes of this article, a trial by a jury is regarded
as continuing, until the verdict is rendered.

§ 993. Upon the trial of an issue of fact by a referee, or
by the court, Without a jury, a refusal to make any finding
whatever, upon a question of fact, Where a request to find
thereupon is seasonably made by either party, or a finding
Without any evidence tending to sustain it, is a ruling upon
a question of law, Within the meaning of the last section.

§ 994. Where an issue of fact is tried by a referee, or
by the court, Without a jury, an exception to a ruling, upon

a question of law, made after the cause is finally submitted must be taken, by filing a notice of the exception
in the clerk’s office, and serving a copy thereof upon the
attorney for the adverse party. The exception may be
so taken, at any time before the expiration of ten days after
service, upon the attorney for the exceptant, of a copy of
the decision of the court, or report of the referee, and a
Written notice of the entry of judgment thereupon. If the
notice of exception is filed before the entry of final judgment, it must be inserted in the judgment-roll; if afterwards, it must be annexed to the judgment-roll. In either
case, it constitutes a part of the papers, upon which an
appeal from the judgment must be heard.

§ 995. In any other case, an exception must be taken,
at the time when the ruling is made, unless it is taken to
the charge given to the jury; in which case, it must be
taken before the jury have rendered their verdict. It
must, at the time when it is taken, be reduced to 
by the exceptant, or entered in the minutes.

§ 996. A ruling, to which an exception is taken, as prescribed in the last four sections, can be reviewed only upon

an appeal from the judgment, rendered after the trial;

except in a case, where it is expressly prescribed by law,
that a motion for a new trial may be made thereupon.

§ 997. Where a party intends to appeal from a judgment,
rendered after the trial of an issue of fact, or to move for a
new trial of such an issue, he must, except as otherwise
prescribed by law, make a case, and procure the same to be
settled and signed, by the judge or the referee, by or before
whom the action was tried, as prescribed in the general
rules of practice; or, in case of the death or disability of
the judge or referee, in such manner as the court directs.
The case must contain so much of the evidence, and other
proceedings upon the trial, as is material to the questions
to be raised thereby, and also the exceptions taken by the
party making the case. If it afterwards becomes necessary to separate the exceptions, the separation may be
made, and the exceptions may be stated, with so much of
the evidence and other proceedings, as is material to the
questions raised by them, in a case, prepared and settled,
as directed in the general rules of practice; or, in the
absence of‘ directions therein, by the court, upon motion.
It is not necessary to state, in a case, that a finding upon
the facts, or a ruling upon the law, was made, which appears
in a referee’s report, or in the decision of the court, upon a
trial by the court, without a jury.

§ 998. It is not necessary to make a case, for the purpose of moving for a new trial, upon the minutes of the
judge, who presided at a trial by a jury; or upon an allegation of irregularity, or surprise; or where a party intends
to appeal from a judgment entered upon a referee’s report,
or a decision of the court upon a trial, without a jury, and
to rely only upon exceptions, taken as prescribed in section 994 of this act.

§ 999. The judge, presiding at a trial by a jury, may, in his

discretion, entertain a motion, made upon his minutes, at

the same term, to set aside the verdict and grant a new
trial, upon exceptions; or because the verdict is for excessive
or insufficient damages; or otherwise contrary to the evidence, or contrary to law. If an appeal is taken from the
order, made upon the motion, it must be heard, upon a case,
prepared and settled in the usual manner.

§ 1000. Upon the application of a party who has taken
one or more exceptions, the judge, presiding at a trial by
a jury, may, in his discretion, at any time during the same
term, direct an order to be entered, that the exceptions so
taken be heard, in the first instance, at the general term ; and
that judgment upon the verdict be suspended, in the mean
time. At any time before the hearing of the exceptions,
the order may be revoked or modified, in court or out of
court, by the judge who made it; or it may be set aside for
irregularity, by the court, at any term thereof. Unless it is
so revoked or set aside, the exceptions must be heard upon
a motion for a new trial, which must be decided by the
general term. The motion is deemed to have been made,
when the order was granted; and either party may notice
it for hearing at the general term, upon the exceptions.

§ 1001. Where the decision or report, rendered upon the
trial of an issue of fact by the court, Without a jury, or by
a referee, directs an interlocutory judgment to be entered;
and further proceedings must be taken, before the court or
a judge thereof, or a referee, before a final judgment can be
entered ; a motion for a new trial, upon one or more exceptions, may be made at the general term, after the entry of
the interlocutory judgment, and before the commencement
of the hearing directed therein. The time Within which
the party must except, for that purpose, to a ruling of law,
made, upon such a trial, by the judge or the referee, after ‘
the close of the testimony, is ten days after service of a
copy of the decision or report, and notice of the entry of
the interlocutory judgment thereupon.

§ 1002. In a case, not specified in the last three sections,
a motion for a new trial must, in the first instance, be
heard and decided at the special term. But where it is
founded upon an allegation of error, in a finding of fact,
or ruling upon the law, made by the judge upon the trial,
it cannot be heard at a special term, held by another judge;
unless the judge, who presided at the trial, is dead, or his
term of office has expired, or he specially directs the motion
to be heard before another judge. And a trial by a referee
cannot be reviewed, by a motion for a new trial, founded
upon such an allegation, except in a case specified in the

last section.

§ 1003. The provisions of this article, relating to the
proceedings to review a trial by jury, are applicable to the
trial, by a jury, of one or more specific questions of fact,
arising upon the issues, in an action triable by the court.
But, except in a case specified in section 970 of this act, a
new trial may be granted, as tosome of the questions so
tried, and refused as to the others; and an error, in the
admission or exclusion of evidence, or in any other ruling
or direction of the judge, upon the trial, may, in the discretion of the court which reviews it, be disregarded; if
that court is of opinion, that substantial justice does not
require that a new trial should be granted. VVhere the
judge, who presided at the trial, neither entertains a motion
for a new trial, nor directs exceptions, taken at the trial, to
be heard at the general term, a motion for a new trial can
be made only at the term, where the motion for final judgment is made, or the remaining issues of fact are tried, as

the case requires.

§ 1004. In an action triable by the court, where a reference has been made, to report upon one or more specific
questions of fact, involved in the issue, a motion for a new
hearing may be made at a special term, at any time before
the hearing of a motion for final judgment or the trial of

the remaining issues of fact. The motion must be made
upon affidavits, unless the court, or a judge thereof, directs
a case to be prepared and settled.

§ 1005. The entry of‘ final judgment, and the subsequent
proceedings to collect or otherwise enforce it, are not stayed
by an exception, the preparation or settlement of a case, or
a motion for a new trial, unless an order for such a stay is
procured and served; and the entry, collection, or other
enforcement of a judgment does not prejudice a subsequent
motion for a new trial. Where a new trial is granted, the
court may direct and enforce restitution, as where a judgment is reversed upon appeal.

§ 1006. The taking of an exception, upon a trial by
jury, or the statement thereof in a case, as prescribed in
this article, does not prejudice a motion for a new trial, on
the ground that the verdict was contrary to evidence; but
such a motion may be made, before or after the hearing of
the exception; or, in the discretion of the court before which
the exception is heard, at the time of the hearing.

§ 1007. The notes of an official stenographer or assistant-stenographer, taken at a trial, when written out at
length, may be treated, in the discretion of the judge, as
the minutes of the judge upon the trial, for the purposes of

this article. '

TITLE II.
Trials without a 

BBC. 1008. If trial by jury waived, action must be tried by the court.

1009. Trial by jury; how waived.

1010. Decision upon trial by the court,.when to be filed ; consequence of

failure.
1011. Reference by consent; when and how made.
1012. Qualification of the last section.

1018. Compulsory reference for the trial of issues; in what cases it may be
made.

1014. Proceedings where the reference is for trial of part of the issues.
1015. Compulsory reference upon questions incidentally arising.

1016. Referee to be sworn.

1017. Witnesses may be subpcsnaed.

1018. General powers of a referee, upon a trial.

1019. Referee’s report; when to be made ; consequence of failure.

1020. Double or other increased damages.

1021. Decision of court or report of referee, upon trial of demurrer.
1022. Id.; upon trial of the whole issue of fact.

1028. Parties may require court or referee to determine particular questions.
1024. Qualifications of a referee.

1025. Several referees may be appointed.

1026. Proceedings regulated where there are several referees.

§ 1008. In an action triable by a jury, if the parties
waive the trial, by a jury, of the issue of fact, the action
must be tried by the court, without a jury; unless a reference is directed, in a case prescribed by law. But an action,
other than to recover damages for breach of a contract,
cannot be tried by the court, Without a jury, unless the
judge, presiding at the term where it is brought on for trial,
assents to such a trial. If he does not so assent, either
party may revoke a Waiver, made as prescribed in subdivision second, third, or fourth of the next section.

§ 1009. A party may Waive his right to the trial of the
issue of fact, by a jury, in either of the following modes:

1. By failing to appear at the trial.

2. By filing with the clerk a written waiver, signed by
the attorney for the party. °

3. By an oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.

4. By moving the trial of the action, Without a jury; or,
if the adverse party so moves it, by failing to claim a trial by
a jury, before the production of any evidence upon the trial.

§ 1010. Upon a trial, by the court, of an issue of fact or
of law, its decision, in writing, must be filed, in the clerk’s
office, Within twenty days after the final adjournment of
the term, Where the issue was tried. If it is not so filed,

either party may move, at a special term, for a new trial
upon that ground. If the decision has not been filed,
when the motion is heard, the court must make an order
for a new trial, either absolutely, or unless it is filed, within
a time specihed in the order. If an order for a new trial
is made, or a contingent order for a new trial becomes
absolute, the costs of the former trial abide the event.

§ 1011. Except in a case specified in the next section, the
whole issue, or any of the issues in an action, either of fact
or of law, must be referred, upon the consent of the parties,

manifested by a written stipulation, signed by their attorneys, and filed with the clerk. Where the stipulation does

not name the referee, he may be designated by the court, on
motion of either party. Where the stipulation names the

referee, the clerk must enter an order, of course, referring
the issue or issues for trial, to that person only.

§ 1012. But a reference shall not be made, of course,
upon the consent of the parties, in an action to annul a
marriage, or for a divorce or a separation; or an action
against a corporation, to obtain a dissolution thereof, the
appointment of a receiver of its property, or the distribution of its property, unless it is brought by the attorneygeneral; or an action wherein a defendant, to be affected
by the result of the trial, is an infant. In a case specined
in this section, where the parties consent to a reference, the
court may, in its discretion, grant or refuse a reference;
and, where a reference is granted, the court must designate
the referee.

§ 1013. The court may, of its own motion, or upon the
application of either party, without the consent of the
other, direct a trial of the issues of fact, by a referee, where

the trial will require the examination of a long account, on
either side, and will not require the decision of difficult
questions of law. In an action, triable by the court, without a jury, a reference may be made, as prescribed in this section, to decide the Whole issue, or any of the issues; or
to report the referee’s finding, upon one or more specific
questions of fact, involved in the issue.

§ 1014. Where a reference is made, as prescribed in the
last section, to report upon a specific question of fact, involved in the issue, and the determination of one or more
other issues is necessary, in order to enable the court to
render judgment, they must be tried, either before orafter
the filing of the report, as the court directs, and either by
a jury, or by the court, Without a jury, as the case requires.
Where they are tried by a jury, application for judgment
must be made upon the verdict and the report.

§ 1015. The court may likewise, of its own motion, or
upon the application of either party, Without the consent
of the other, direct a reference to take an account, and
report to the court thereon, either With or without the testimony, after interlocutory or final judgment, or Where it
is necessary to do so, for the information of the court; and
also to determine and report upon a question of fact, arising
in any stage of the action, upon a motion, or otherwise, except upon the pleadings.

§ 1016. A referee, appointed as prescribed in either of
the foregoing sections of this title, must, before proceeding to hear the testimony, be sworn faithfully and fairly
to try the issues, or to determine the questions referred to
him, as the case requires, and to make a just and true report, according to the best of his understanding. The oath
may be administered by an officer specified in section 842
of this act. But Where all the parties, Whose interests will
be affected by-the result of the trial, are of age, and present,
in person or by attorney, they may expressly Waive the
referee’s oath. The Waiver may be made by written stipulation, or orally. If it is oral, it must be entered in the
referee’s minutes.

§ 1017. A Witness may be subpoenaed to attend before
a referee, appointed as prescribed in either of the foregoing sections of this title, to testify, and, in a proper case, to
bring with him a book, document, or other paper, as upon a
trial by the court.

§ 1018. The trial, by a referee, of an issue of fact, or of
an issue of law, must be brought on upon like notice, and
conducted in like manner, and the papers to be furnished
thereupon are the same, and are furnished in like manner,
as where the trial is by the court, without a jury. The
referee exercises, upon such a trial, the same power as the
court, to grant adjournments, to preserve order, and punish
the violation thereof. Upon the trial of an issue of fact,
the referee exercises also the same power as the court, to
allow amendments to the summons, or to the pleadings ; to
compel the attendance of a witness by attachment; and to
punish a witness for a contempt of court, for non-attendance, or refusal to be sworn, or to testify. Upon the trial
of an issue of law, the referee exercises the same power as
the court, to permit a party in fault to plead anew or amend;
to direct the action to be divided into two or more actions ; to
award costs, and otherwise to dispose of any question, arising upon the decision of the issue referred to him. The
powers, conferred by this section, are exercised in like manner, and upon like terms, as similar powers are exercised by
the court, upon a trial.

§ 1019. Upon the trial, by a referee, of an issue of fact,
or an issue of law, his written report must be either filed
with the clerk, or delivered to the attorney for one of the
parties, within sixty days from the time when the cause is
finally submitted ; otherwise either party may, before it is filed
or delivered, serve a notice, upon the attorney for the adverse
party, that he elects to end the reference. In such a case,
the action must thenceforth proceed, as if the reference

had not been directed; and the referee is not entitled to
any fees.

§ 1020. Where double, treble, or other. increased damages are given by statute, the decision of the court, or the
report of the referee, must specify the sum awarded as
single damages, and direct judgment for the increased
damages.

§ 1021. The decision of the court, or the report of a referee, upon the trial of a demurrer, must direct the judgment to be entered thereupon, or other disposition of the
cause, as prescribed in section 1018 of this act.

§ 1022. The decision of the court, or the report of the
referee, upon the trial of the whole issue of fact, must state
separately the facts found, and the conclusions of law; and

it must direct the judgment, to be entered thereupon. In an
action, where the costs are in the discretion of the court, the

decision or report must award or deny costs; and, if it
awards costs, it must designate the party to whom costs, to
be taxed, are awarded. Where the trial is by the court,
the decision must also fix the amount of the extra allowance, if any, to be added to the costs on taxation.

§ 1023. Before the cause is finally submitted to the
court or the referee, or within such time afterwards, and
before the decision or report is rendered, as the court or
referee allows, the attorney for either party may submit, in
writing, a statement of the facts, which he deems established
by the evidence, and of the rulings upon questions of law,
which he desires the court or the referee to make. The
statement must be in the form of distinct propositions of
law, or of fact, or both, separately stated; each of which
must be numbered, and so prepared, with respect to its
length, and the subject and phraseology thereof, that the
court or referee may conveniently pass upon it. At or
before the time, when the decision or report is rendered, the
court or the referee must note, in the margin of the statement, the manner in which each proposition has been disposed of, and must either file, or return to the attorney, the
statement thus noted; but an omission so to do does not
aifect, the validity of the decision or report.

§ 1024. A referee, appointed by the court, must be free
from all just objections; and no person shall be so appointed,
to Whom all the parties object, except in an action to annul
a marriage, or for a divorce, or a separation. A judge cannot be appointed a referee, in an action brought in the
court, of which he is a judge, except by the Written consent
of the parties; and, in that case, he cannot receive any compensation as referee.

§ 1025. Where the court is authorized to appoint a
referee, it may, in its discretion, appoint either one or three.
And Where a reference is made by consent of the parties,
they may select any number of referees, not exceeding five.

§ 1026. Where the reference is to more than one referee,
all must meet together, and hear all the allegations and
proofs of the parties; but a majority may appoint a time
and place for the trial, decide any question which arises
upon the trial, sign a report, or settle a case. . Either of
them may administer an oath to a Witness ; and a majority
of those present, at atime and place appointed for the trial,
may adjourn the trial to a future day.

TITLE III.

To-ialjnrors, except in New-York and Kings counties ; mode
qf selecting them, and of procuring their attendance.

Anncnn 1. Qualifications and exemptions of trial jurors.
2. Mode of selecting, drawing, and procuring the attendance of trial

jurors, in ordinary cases.
8. Mode of striking and procuring a special jury, and of procuring a

foreign jury.
4. Penalties for non-attendance.

ARTICLE FIRST.

Quanrmcurons AND Exmmrrons on TRIAL J Unons.

BBC. 1027. Qualidcations of trial jurors.
1028. Additional provision respecting Property qualidcation.

1029. Certain public officers disqualified.
1030. Persons entitled to claim exemption from service.

1081. Evidence of exemption in certain cases.

1032. When juror to be discharged from serving.
1033. When juror to be excused from serving.

1034. Application of this article, as respects New-York and Kings counties.

§ 1027. In order to be qualified to serve, as a trial juror,
in a court of record, a person must be:

1. A male citizen of the United States, and a resident of
the county.

2. Not less than twenty-one, nor more than  years
of age.

3. Assessed, for personal property, belonging to him, in
his own right, to the amount of two hundred and fifty dollars; or the’owner of a freehold estate in real property,
situated in the county, belonging to him in his own right,
of the value of one hundred and fifty dollars; or the husband of a woman who is the owner of a like freehold estate,
belonging to her, in her own right. .

4. In the possession of his natural faculties, and not
iniirm or decrepit.

5. Free from all legal exceptions; of fair character; of
approved integrity; of sound judgment ; and well informed.

§ 1028. But a person who was assessed, on the last

, assessmentroll of the town, for land in his possession, held

under a contract for the purchase thereof, upon which
improvements, owned by him, have been made, to the
value of one hundred and nfty dollars, is qualified to serve

as a. trial juror, although he does not possess either of the
qualifications, specified in subdivision third of ‘the last section, if he is qualified in every other respect.

§ 1029. Each of the following officers is disqualified to
serve as a trial juror:
1. The governor; the lieutenant-governor; the governor’s

private secretary.
2. The secretary of State; the comptroller; the State

treasurer; the attorney-general; the State engineer and
surveyor; a canal commissioner; an inspector of State
prisons; a canal appraiser; the superintendent of public
instruction; the superintendent of the bank department;
the superintendent of the insurance department; and the
deputy of each officer, specified in this subdivision.

3. A member of the legislature, during the session of the
house, of which he is a member.

4. A judge of a court of record, or a surrogate.

5. A sheriff, under-sheriff, or deputy-sheriff.

6. The clerk or deputy-clerk of a. court of record.

§ 1030. Each of the following persons, although qualilied, is entitled to exemption from service, as a trial juror,
upon his claiming exemption therefrom:

1. A clergyman, or a minister of any religion, ofliciating
as such, and not following any other calling.

2. A resident officer of, or an attendant, assistant, teacher,
or other person, actually employed in, a State asylum for
lunatics, idiots, or habitual drunkards.

3. The agent or warden of a State prison; the keeper of
a county jail; or’ a person actually employed in a State
prison or county jail.

4. A practicing physician or surgeon, having patients
requiring his daily professional attention.

5. An attorney and counsellor at law, in actual practice
as such, and not following any other calling.

6. A professor or teacher, in a college or academy.

7. A person actually employed in a glass, cotton, linen,
woollen, or iron manufacturing company, by the year,
month, or season. i

*8. A superintendent, engineer, or collector, on a canal,
authorized by the laws of the State, which is actually constructed and navigated.

9. A master, engineer, assistant-engineer, or fireman, actually employed upon a steam-vessel, making regular trips.

10. A superintendent, conductor, or engineer, employed
by a railroad company, other than a street railroad company; or an operator, or assistant-operator, employed by a
telegraph company ; Who is actually doing duty in an oiiice,
or along the railroad or telegraph line of the company, by
which he is employed.

11. An officer, non-commissioned officer, musician, or private of the national guard of the State, performing military
duty; or a person, who has been honorably discharged
from the national guard, after five years service, in either
capacity.

12. A person who has been honorably discharged from
the military forces of the State, after seven years faithful
service therein. But in order to entitle a person to exemption, under this subdivision, his service must have been
performed before the 23d day of April, 1862, eitheras a
general or staff-officer, or as an officer, non-commissioned
officer, musician, or private, in a uniformed battalion, company, or troop of the militia of the State, and armed, uniformed, and equipped, according to law; or a portion
thereof, during that period and in that capacity, and the
remainder, since the 23d day of April, 1862, as a member
of the national guard of the State.

13. A member of a fire company, or fire department, duly
organized according to the laws of the State, and performing his duties therein; or a person Who, after faithfully
serving five successive years in such'a fire company, or fire
department, has been honorably discharged therefrom.

14. A person otherwise specially exempted by law.

§ 1031. The evidence of the right to exemption, as prescribed in the last section, is as follows:

1. Under subdivision second thereof, the certificate of
the superintendent, or other principal odicer of the asylum.

2. Under subdivision third thereof, the certificate of the
warden, or other principal odicer, of the State prison, or the
sheriff of the county, as the case requires.

3. Under subdivision eleventh thereof, where the applicant is a non-commissioned officer, musician, or private, in a
company or troop of the national guard, the certificate of
the commanding officer of the company or troop, accompanied With proof, byaffidavit, of the genuineness of the signature thereto.

4. Under the last clause of subdivision eleventh, or under subdivision twelfth thereof, in the discretion of the court,
the discharge of the person from military service, if it
shows the facts entitling him to exemption.

5. Under the first clause of subdivision thirteenth
thereof, Where the applicant is under the rank of foreman,
the certificate of the foreman, or other chief officer, of the
company, to which the applicant belongs, accompanied
with proof, by affidavit, of the genuineness of the signature
thereto.

6. Under the last clause of subdivision thirteenth thereof,
the certificate of the chief engineer of the fire department
of the city or village, Where the service was performed, or
of the mayor or president of the city or village.

A certificate, specified in this section, must be dated
Within three months before the time of presenting it, and
filed With the clerk of the court, to which it is presented.

§ 1032. The court must discharge a person from serving
as atrial juror, in either of the following cases:

1. Where it satisfactorily appears that he is not qualified.

2. Where it satisfactorily appears that he is exempt, and
he claims the benefit of the exemption.

Where a person is discharged, for either of the causes
specified in this section, the clerk must destroy the ballot,
containing his name.

§ 1033. Upon satisfactory proof of the facts, a court, at
the term to Which a person is returned as a trial juror,
must excuse him from serving during the Whole, or a portion of the term, in either of the following cases:

1. Where he is a justice of the peace, or executes any

. other civil office, the duties of Which are, at the time, inconsistent With his attendance as a juror.

2. Where he is a teacher in a school, actually employed
and serving as such. '

3. Where, for any other reason, the interests of the public, or of the juror, will be materially injured by his attendance; or his own health, or the health of a member of his
family, requires his absence; or he is temporarily incapacitated, for any reason, from properly discharging the duties

of a juror.
Where a person is excused, in either of the cases specifled in this section, the ballot, containing his name, must be
returned to the box from which it was taken.

§ 1034. Section 1029 of this act applies throughout the
State. The remainder of this article does not apply to the
city and county of New-York, or the county of Kings.

ARTICLE SECOND.

Mom: or snnncrme, muwme, AND rnocmuna um Ammnmcn or Tnnu.
J URORB, IN onnmamr Casns.

1035. Certain town otllcers to make lists of trial jurors.
1036. Names of jurors to be taken from assessment-roll.

1037. Duplicate jury lists to be made and filed.

1038. County clerk to make and deposit ballots.

1039. County clerk to destroy old ballots.

1040. Jurors so returned to serve for three years.

1041. Wards of certain cities to be considered towns, etc.

1042. When and how many jurors, for courts of record, to be drawn.

1043. Notice of drawing.

1044. Sheriff and county judge to attend drawing.

1045. SheriE or county judge, not appearing, to be again notided, etc.
1046. Certain officers required to be present at drawing.

1047. Mode of drawing jurors; minute of drawing; list to be delivered to

sheriff.

1048. Sheriff to notify jurors and make return.

1049. Applicants to be furnished with copies of jury lists.

1050. Names of jurors who have served, to be kept in separate box.

1051. Jurors to be drawn from that box, when first box is exhausted.

1052. A third jury box to be kept.

1053. Vvhen old ballots therein to be destroyed, and new ballots deposited.
1054. Jurors, when to be drawn from third box.

1055. How such jurors to be notified.
1056. Justice of supreme court, or county judge, may order drawing of additional jurors.

1057. Proceedings upon such order.
1058. For what courts, and by whom, additional jurors may be ordered.

1059. How such additional jurors drawn and notified.

1060. Power of county judge, as to attendance of jurors.

1061. Powers of deputy county clerk, under this article.

1062. This article not applicable to New-York and Kings counties.

§ 1035. The supervisor, town clerk, and assessors of each
town, must meet on the first Monday of July, in the year
one thousand eight hundred and seventy-eight, and in each
third year thereafter, at a place Within the town, appointed
by the supervisor; or, in case of his absence, or of a. vacancy
in his office, by the town clerk‘, for the purpose of making
a list of persons, to serve as trial jurors, for the then ensuing
three years. If they fail to meet, on the day specified in
this section, they must meet as soon thereafter, as practicable.

§ 1036. At the meeting, specified in the last section, the
oiiicers present must select, from the last assessment-roll of
the town, and make a list of, the names of all persons
Whom they believe to be qualified to serve as trial jurors,
as prescribed in the last article. They must also insert, in
the list, the name of each person, Whom they believe to be
qualiiied to serve as a trial juror, by reason of his being
the husband of a Woman, who holds property, as prescribed
in section 1027 of this act.

§ 1037. Duplicate lists of the names of the persons so
selected, showing the place of residence, and other proper
additions, of each of them, as far as those particulars can
be conveniently ascertained, must be made out, and signed
by the odicers, or a majority of them. Within ten days
after the meeting, one of the lists must be transmitted, by
those oiiicers, to the county clerk, and filed by him; and
the other must be filed With the town clerk.

§ 1038. On the first Monday of August, after the lists
,have been transmitted to him, the county clerk must prepare suitable ballots, by writing the name of each person
thus selected, as contained in the lists, with his place of residence, and other additions, on a separate piece of paper.
The ballots must be uniform, as nearly as may be, in appearance; and the clerk must deposit them in the box,
kept for that purpose.

§ 1039. Before depositing the ballots, the county clerk
must destroy each ballot, remaining in either of the boxes
kept by him, and containing the name of a resident of a.
town, for which a new list has been transmitted. If, for

any reason, the list from a town is not received by the
clerk, by the first Monday of August, it, or a new list, to
be made as prescribed for making the original list, must be
transmitted, as soon thereafter as practicable ; and the county
clerk must prepare new ballots, and destroy the old ballots,
containing the names of residents of that town, immediately after the receipt by him, of the list therefrom.

§ 1040. Each person, whose name is contained in a list,
so transmitted, must, unless he is excused or discharged,
serve, as a trial uror, for three years from the first Monday
of August of that year, and thereafter until another list,

from his town, is received and filed.

§ 1041. Each ward of the city of Albany, Troy, Hudson,
Schenectady, or Utica, is considered a town, for the purposes
of this article; and the supervisor and assessor of that Ward
must execute the duties of the supervisor, town clerk, and
assessors of a town, as prescribed in the foregoing sections
of this article, except that a. duplicate of the list of jurors,
made by them, must be filed in the oiiice of the clerk of the
city. In each of the other cities of‘ the State, the like duties
must be performed by the officers, and in the manner, prescribed by law.

§ 1042. On a day, designated by the county clerk, not
less than fourteen, nor more than twenty days, before the
day appointed for holding each term of the circuit court;
or of the court of oyer and terminer, where a circuit court
is not appointed to be held at the same time; or of the
county court, except a term designated for the hearing and
decision of motions, and trials and other proceedings, without a jury; or of the court of sessions, where a term of
the county court is not appointed to be held at the same
time; or of a mayor’s or recorder’s court, at which issues
are triable by a jury; or on the day to which the drawing
is adjourned , as prescribed in section 10-15 of this act, the
clerk of the county, in which the term is to be held, must
draw the names of thirty-six persons, and any additional
number, ordered according to law, to serve as trial jurors at
the term.

§ 1043. At least six days before the drawing, the county
clerk must publish a notice thereof, in a newspaper published in the county, if there is one; or, if there is none, he
must affix a notice thereof, on the outer door of the building, where the term, for which the jurors are to be drawn;
is appointed to be held. He must also, at least three days
before the time appointed for the drawing, cause notice
thereof to be served upon the sheriff of the county, and
upon the county judge, or, in case of his absence, upon
the special county judge, or, in a county where there is no
special county judge, upon a justice of sessions.

§ 1044. At the time so appointed, the sheriff of the
county, or his under-sheriff, and the county judge, or, if
notice has been served upon another officer, in the absence
of the latter, as prescribed in the last section, either the
county judge, or that oiiicer, or both, must attend at the
clerk’s office of the ‘ county, to witness the drawing of the
jurors.

§ 1045. If the sheriff or under-sheriff, and ‘either the
county judge, or, in a case specified in the last section, an
officer in place of the county judge, do not appear, the clerk
must adjourn the drawing of the jurors to the next day.
Thereupon, the clerk must forthwith cause to be served
upon the absent sheriff or county judge, or two or more
justices of the peace of the county, notice to attend the
drawing on the adjourned day.

§ 1046. If the sheriff or under-sheriff, and the county
judge, or if the sheriff, under-sheriff, or county judge, together with two justices of the peace of the county, appear
at the adjourned day, but not otherwise, the clerk must
proceed, in the presence of the officers so appearing, to
draw the jurors.

§ 1047. The drawing must be conducted as follows:
1. The clerk must shake the box containing the ballots,

i so as thoroughly to mix them.

2. He must then, without seeing the name contained in

any ballot, publicly draw out of the box one ballot ;. and

continue to draw, in like manner, one ballot at a time, until
the requisite number has been drawn.

3. A minute of the drawing must be kept, by one of the
attending oiiicers, in which must be entered the name contained in each ballot drawn, before another ballot is drawn.

4. If, after drawing the requisite number, the name of a
person has been drawn, who is dead, or insane, or who has
permanently removed from the county, to the knowledge of
an attending oiiicer, an entry of that fact must be made in
the minute of the drawing, and the ballot, containing thatperson’s name, must be destroyed. VVhereupon, another
ballot must be drawn, in its place, and the name contained
therein must be entered, in like manner, in the minute of
the drawing.

5. The same proceedings must be had, as often as necessary, until the requisite number of jurors has been obtained.

6. The minute of the drawing must then be signed by the
clerk, and the other attending oilicers, and filed in the clerk’s
oilice.

7. A list of the names of the persons so drawn, showing
the place of residence, and other proper additions, of each
of them, and specifying for what court and term they were
drawn, must be made and certified by the clerk, and the
other attending officers, and delivered to the sheriff of the
county.

§ 1048. The sheriff must, at least six days before the day
appointed for holding the term, serve, upon each person
named in the list, personally, or by leaving it at his residence, with a person of proper age and discretion, 3. written
notice to attend the term. He must file the list with the clerk
of the court, at or before the opening of the term; with a
return, indorsed thereupon, or annexed thereto, under his
hand, naming each person notified, and specifying the manner in which he was notified. . '

§ 1049. The county clerk, or the sheriff, must furnish a

copy of the list of trial jurors, drawn to attend a term, to
any person applying to him therefore, and paying the fees
allowed by law.

§ 1050. After the adjournment of the term, at which
trial jurors have been returned, as prescribed in the last section but one, the clerk must deposit the ballots, containing the names of those who attended and served, in another
box, kept by him. The ballots, containing the names of
those who did not appear and serve, which have not been
destroyed, as prescribed in article first of this title, must be
returned to the box from which they Were taken.

§ 1051. If, at the time of drawing trial jurors for a
term, there is not a suilicient number of ballots remaining

in the first box, the clerk, after drawing all the ballots

therein, must draw the necessary number from the second
box, containing the names of those jurors who have before
served, as prescribed in the last section; and must continue
to draw from that box, until new lists of jurors are transmitted by the town oiiicers. ‘

§ 1052. The county clerk must keep, in addition to the
two boxes specified in the last two sections, a third box, in
which he must deposit duplicate ballots, containing the
names, with the proper additions, of all persons, selected
and returned as trial jurors, who reside in the city or town,
where a trial term of a court of record is appointed to be
held, pursuant to law.

§ 1053. The ballots, kept in the third box, must be
destroyed by the clerk, and new ballots must be deposited therein by him, at the same time, and under like
-circumstances, as prescribed in this article, with respect to
the destruction of the old ballots, and the depositing of
new ballots, in the first box.

§ 1054. If a sufficient number of trial jurors, duly
drawn and notified-, do not attend or cannot be obtained, to
form a jury, the court may, in its discretion, direct the
sheriff to draw from the third box, in the presence of the
court, the names of as many persons, as the court deems
sufficient for that purpose.

§ 1055. The sheriff must forthwith notify each person
so drawn, and make a return, as prescribed in title fifth of
this chapter, where talesmen are required to attend; and
the provisions of that title apply to each person so notified.

§ 1056. A justice of the supreme court, appointed to
hold a term of the circuit court, or to preside at a term of
the court of oyer and terminer, may, by an order under
his hand, direct that such a number of jurors, as he deems

necessary, not exceeding twenty-four, be drawn for that
term, in addition to the thirty-six jurors, to be drawn as
prescribed in the foregoing sections of this article. A
county judge may, in like manner, direct the drawing of a
like additional number of jurors, for a term of the county
court, or of the court of sessions, to be held in his county.

§ 1057. An order, made as prescribed in the last section,
must be delivered to the clerk of the county, in which the
term is to be held, at least twenty days before the day
appointed for the commencement thereof; and the clerk
must forthwith file it. This article applies to the additional jurors, so required to be drawn. '

§ 1058. At a term of the circuit court, or court of oyer
and terminer, or of the county court, or court of sessions,
an order may be made by the court, requiring the clerk of
the county to draw, and the sheriff to notify, any number
of trial jurors, specified in the order, which the court deems
necessary, to attend that term, or a term thereafter to be
held, either by original appointment or by adjournment, at
the commencement thereof, or on a particular day, specified in the order. ,

§ 1059. The clerk must thereupon forthwith bring into
court, all the boxes, wherein ballots, containing the names

of trial jurors are deposited, as prescribed in this article;
and must, in the presence of the court, publicly draw from
such box or boxes as the court directs, the number of trial
jurors specified in the order. The clerk must make and
certify two lists of the persons so drawn; and must file one
list in his office, and deliver the other to the sheriff. The
sheriff must thereupon immediately notify each person so
drawn, to attend, as specified in the order.

§ 1060. The county judge may, at the time of drawing
V ll jurors to attend a term of the county court, or court of

i apns, make an order, designating a particular day, during

the term, when the jurors must attend, or two or more
,particular days, upon each of Which a portion of the jurors
must attend. The sheriff must thereupon notify them to

attend, as speciiied in the order.

§ 1061. The deputy county clerk possesses, in the absence of the county clerk from his office, or from the sitting
of a term of the court, the powers conferred by this article
upon the county clerk.

§ 1062. This article does not apply to the city and county
-of New-York, or to the county of Kings.

ARTICLE THIRD.

Mom: or s-rnnmvo um rnocunmo A srncuu. J unv, urn or rnocunme A
nonnmn JURY.

SEO. 1063. What courts may order a special jury to be struck.

1064. Party obtaining order to give eight days’ notice.

1065. Mode of striking jury.

1066. Jurors so drawn to be notified to attend.

1067. Jury to be formed as in other cases.

1068. Provision where clerk or commissioner of jurors is interested.
1069. Party applying for special jury to pay expenses.

1070. Copy of order for foreign jury to be delivered to sherif.

1071. Mode of obtaining a. foreign jury.

§ 1063. Where it appears to the court, that a fair and
impartial trial of an issue of fact, triable by a ury, joined
in an action, pending in the supreme court, or in a superior
city court, cannot be had Without a struck jury, or that the
importance or intricacy of the case requires such a jury, the
court must make an order, upon notice, directing a special
jury to be struck, for the trial of the issue. The order must

specify the term, and it may specify a particular day in the
term, When the jurors must attend.

§ 1064. Unless the order specifies, or directs the oiiicéjr,
who is to strike the jury, to fix, a time for the parties;
attend, the party obtaining it must give at least eight dz;-‘

notice of the time, When he will attend, before the clerk of
the county in which the action is triable, or, if it is triable
in, the city and county of N ew-York, or the county of
Kings, before the commissioner of jurors, or, if it is triable
in the superior court of Buffalo, before the clerk of that
court, for the purpose of having the  struck.

§ 1065. At the time appointed, the clerk, or, in his
absence, the deputy-clerk, or the commissioner, as the case
requires, must attend at his office, with the original lists or
books, filed or kept in his oiiice, as required by law, containing the names of the persons who are then liable to serve
as trial jurors; and, in the presence of the parties, or their
attorneys or counsel, must strike a trial jury, as follows:

1. The clerk, deputy-clerk, or commissioner, must select
from the lists or books, the names of forty-eight persons,
Whom he deems most indifferent between the parties, and
best qualified to try the issue; and must make and certify
a list of those names. 2. The party, on Whose application the special jury was
directed to be struck, or his attorney or counsel, may then
first strike from the list one name; the adverse party or
his attorney or counsel may then strike therefrom one
name; and so alternately, until each party has stricken out
twelve names.

3. If either party fails to attend, at the time and place
of striking the jury, or neglects to strike out a name, the
clerk, deputy-clerk, or commissioner, must strike for him.

4. The clerk, deputy-clerk, or commissioner, must there‘
upon make out a list of the names of the twenty-four per‘
sons not stricken out, and must certify. that it is a correct
list of the persons, drawn to serve as jurors, pursuant to the
order of the court. He must immediately deliver the list
so certified, and a certihed copy of the order, to the sheriff
of the county.

§ 1066. The sheriff must notify each person Whose name
is contained in the list; and must return the names of

those notified, to the term, at which they are required to
attend, as prescribed by law for notifying and returning
ordinary trial jurors.

§ 1067. From the persons so notified and attending, a
jury must be formed for the trial, and the issue must be
tried, as prescribed in this chapter with respect to an ordinary jury trial. The court has the same power to excuse
or discharge a juror, and to cause additional jurors to be
drawn, or talesmen to attend, as upon an ordinary jury trial.
But the court may, in its discretion, set aside an additional
juror so drawn, or a talesman, upon the objection of either
party, Without a formal challenge.

§ 1068. If it appears to the court, to which an application for a special jury is made, that the clerk, or the com- V

missioner of jurors, as the case may be, is interested in the
action; or is related to either of the parties; or is not indifferent between them; the court must appoint two disinterested persons to strike the jury. The persons so appointed
possess, for the purposes of the action, all the powers conferred, by this article, upon the clerk, or the commissioner
of jurors. '

§ 1069. The expense of striking a special jury must be
paid by the party applying for it, and shall not be taxed
in the costs of the action.

§ 1070. Where an order for a trial by a foreign jury
is made, a certified copy thereof must be delivered to

the sheriff of the county, from which it is to be drawn;
who must give notice thereof to the clerk of that county,
and also, in the city and county of New-York, or the county
of Kings, to the commissioner of jurors, at least twenty
days before the first day of the term, at which the foreign
jury is required to attend.

§ 1071. The clerk, or, in the county of Kings, the commissioner, to whom the notice is given, must draw the
names of twenty-four persons, in- the same manner, and in
presence of the same officers, as prescribed by law, with
respect to ordinary trial jurors; except that notice of the
drawing need not be published. A certified list of the
names drawn must be delivered to the sheriff, who must

notify each person drawn, and make a return, as in an ordinary case.

ARTICLE FOURTH.

PENALTIES FOB Non-Arrmxnancn.

SEO. 1072. Fine to be imposed for non-attendance.
1073. Order to show cause, when juror was not personally notiiied.
1074. Id. ; if default was at circuit.
1075. Duty of clerk and sherif.

1076. Proceedings upon return of such order.
1077. When proceedings to cease.
1078. This article not applicable to New-York and Kings counties.

§ 1072. A person duly notified, as prescribed in this title,
to attend a term of a court of record, as a trial juror, who,

without reasonable cause, neglects to attend, according to

the notice, shall be fined a sum, not less than ten dollarsnor more than twenty-live dollars, for each day that he so

neglects to attend. 

§ 1073. Where it appears, by the return of the sheriff,
that the delinquent was personally notified to attend, the
fine may be imposed by the court, at the term which he
was required to attend. But where it appears, by the return,
that he was notified, by leaving the notice at his residence,
the court must cause an order to be entered in its minutes,
requiring him to show cause, on the first day of the next

term of the court, why a nne should not be imposed upon
him.

§ 1074. If the order is made at a term of a circuit court,
it may, in the discretion of the court, direct the delinquent

to show cause, on the first day of the next term of the county
court of the same county.

§ 1075. The clerk must immediately deliver two certified
copies of the order to the sheriff of the county, who must
serve one copy on the delinquent personally, and return the
other, with his proceedings thereon, to the term at which
the delinquent is required to show cause.

§ 1076. If the sheriiif returns the copy of the order as
personally served, or if the delinquent attends, in obedience
thereto, the court must, unless good cause is shown to the
contrary, impose the proper fine; otherwise it must make a
further order, requiring the delinquent to show cause at the
next term, why the fine should not be imposed. The proceedings under such an order are the same as under the
first order. Similar orders must be made, from term to
term, and similar proceedings taken, until the delinquent
is personally served, or attends in obedience thereto.

§ 1077. But if it appears, from the return of the sheriff,
or from any other evidence, that the juror is dead, or insane,
or has permanently removed from the county; or if a satisfactory excuse is rendered by any person, in his behalf, for
his default, the court may, in its discretion, discontinue the
proceedings.

§ 1078. This article does not apply to the city and
county of New-York, or to the county of Kings.

TITLE IV.

Trial jwrors in Nezo-York and Kings counties,’ mock of
selecting them, and of procuring their attendance.

ARTICLE 1. Provisions relating to trial jurors in the city and county of New-York.
2. Provisions relating to trial jurors in the county of Kings.

ARTICLE FIRST.

Pnovrsroxs RELATING To Turn. J moss in run: Crrr AND COUNTY

B30. 1079.

1080.

1081.
1082.
1083.

1084.
1085.
1086.
1087.
1088.
1089.

1090.
1091.
1092.
1093.
1094.

1095.

1096.
1097.

1098.
1099.
1100.
1101.
1102.
1103.
1104.
1105.
1106.
1107.
1 108.
1109.
1110.
1111.

1112.
1113.

1114.
1115.
1116.

1117.
1118.

or N EW-YORK.

Qualifications of trial jurors. _

Who deemed a resident.

Persons exempt from service.

Evidence of right to exemption in certain cases.

Military oiiicers required to certify to commissioner persons perfuming full military duty.

Jury year; length of jury service required and allowed.

When court may temporarily excuse juror from attendance.

In other cases, juror to be excused only on showing certain facts.
Juror applying to court to be excused must produce notice, etc.
Service in a court not of record ; when an excuse.

Clerk of court to certify to commissioner as to attendance, excuses.

nnes, etc., of jurors.

Commissioner of jurors to select trial jurors ; his general powers.
Commissioner may appoint assistants, etc.; who may administer oaths.
All public oiiicers required to aid the commissioner.

Expenses of commissioner’s office; how paid.

Lists of jurors to be prepared, etc.; commissioner to decide as to exemptions.
Persons may be required to testify as to juror’s liability to serve. Penalty for disobedience.
Commissioner to return lists to county clerk ; correction of lists.
Old ballots to be destroyed and new ballots deposited; supplemental
lists; new ballots therefore. 0 .

Number of jurors to be drawn for each term of court of record.

When jurors to be drawn ; what oiiicers to attend drawing.

Notice of drawing.

Proceedings if oiiicers do not appear.

When jury to be drawn on adjourned day.

Mode of drawing; minute; lists.

Id.; where term consists of two or more parts.

Commissioner may issue notice to jurors drawn.

Sherid to notify jurors and make return.

Clerk of court to certify as to mode of service.

Court may order new panel to be drawn during term.

Court of record to fine juror for non-attendance; power to remit line.
Juror may also be arrested and compelled to serve.

Jurors for district courts; how selected; punishment for non-attendance; clerk's duty; penalty for neglect.

Sheriifs jury; how selected, etc.

Proceedings before commissioner, to remit or enforce jury fines.

Board for enforcement of jury dues; proceedings before it.

General powers of board.

Commissioner to issue warrant to collect fines; sheriff's powers and

duties thereupon.
Uncollected lines to be docketed, and enforced as judgments.

Commissioner to receive fines, etc. His account; how rendered and
settled. '

81:0. 1119. Corporation attorney to prosecute for penalties; compromise, etc., of
action.

1120. Penalty, for physician giving false certificate.

1121. Persons required to furnish information ; penalty for refusal, etc.
1122. Punishment for bribery of oilicer, etc., by juror drawn.

1128. Id.; for officer accepting bribes, etc.

1124. Id.; for concealing ofer to take bribe, etc.

1125. False swearing; when perjury.

§ 1079. In order to be qualified to serve, as a trial juror,

in a court in the city and county of New-York, a person

must be:

1. A male citizen of the United States, and a resident of
that city and county.

2. Not less than twenty-one, nor more than seventy years
of age.

3. The owner, in his own right, of real or personal property, of the value of two hundred and fifty dollars; or the
husband of a woman who is the owner, in her own right,

.of real or personal property of that value.

4. In the possession of his natural faculties, and not

iniirm or decrepit.
5. Free from all legal exceptions; intelligent; of sound
mind and good character; and able to read and write the

English language understandingly.

§ 1080. A person dwelling or lodging in the city and
county of New-York, for the greater part of the time,
between the first day of October and the thirtieth day of
June next thereafter, is a resident of that city and county,
for that jury year, within the meaning of the last section;
and it is not necessary, that he should have been assessed,

or should have voted there.

§ 1081. Either of the following persons, although qualiiied, is entitled to "an exemption from service, as a trial
juror, upon his claiming an exemption, as prescribed in this article:

1. A clergyman, or a minister of any religion, odiciating
as such, and not following any other calling.

2. A practicing physician, surgeon, or surgeon dentist,
having patients requiring his daily professional attention,

and not following any other calling. T,
3. An attorney and counsellor at law, in actual practice,
having causes in court, in which he is attorney or counsel

for another person, and not following any other calling.
4. A professor or teacher in a college, academy, or public

school, not following any other calling.
5. The holder of an ofHce, under the United States, or

the State, or the city or county of New-York, Whose oliicial
duties, at the time, prevent his attendance as a juror.

6. A consul of a foreign nation.

7. A captain, engineer, or other oiiicer, actually employed

upon a vessel, making regular trips; or a licensed pilot,

actually following that calling.

8. A superintendent, conductor, or engineer, employed by
a railroad company, other than a street railroad company;
or a telegraph operator, employed by a telegraph company;
Who is actually doing duty in an office, or along the railroad
or telegraph line of the company, by which he is employed.

9. A grand juror, or a sherifl:"s juror, for the year, selected
pursuant to law.

10. An olhcer, non-commissioned. officer, musician, or
private, actually serving in a brigade, regiment, battalion,
company, or troop, of the national guard of the State, uniformed and equipped, according to law, and faithfully performing his duty, by making the parades, and attending
the drills, inspections, and reviews, required by law; or a
general or staff-officer, actually performing duty as such;
or a person who has been honorably discharged from the
national guard, after five years’ service, in either capacity.

11. A person who has been honorably discharged from
the military forces of the State, after seven years’ faithful
service therein. But in order to entitle a person to exemption, under this subdivision, his service must have been performed before the 23d day of April, 1862, either as a
general or staff-oiiicer, or as an officer, non-commissioned
officer, musician, or private, in a uniformed battalion,

company; or troop, of the militia of the State, and armed,
uniformed, and equipped, according to law; or a portion
thereof, during that period and in that capacity, and the
remainder, since the 23d day of April, 1862, as a member
of the national guard of the State.

12. A person who, after faithfully performing the duties
of a fireman, in a fire company or fire department, duly
organized according to the laws of the State, for five successive years, has been honorably discharged therefrom.

13. A person who is physically incapable of performing
jury duty, by reason of severe sickness, deafness, or other
physical disorder.

14. A person holding office under the fire or police department of the city; or otherwise specially exempted by
law.

§ 1082. The evidence of the right to exemption, as prescribed in the last section, is as follows:

1. Under subdivision tenth thereof, where the applicant
is a member of a company or troop, the certificate of the
captain, or other commanding oiiicer thereof, dated within
three months of the time of presenting it. Or the commissioner of jurors may, in his discretion, receive the certified
list, specified in the next section, as sufiicient evidence
thereof. Where the applicant is a regimental officer, or a
staff-oilicer, the evidence of the right to. exemption is the
certificate of the major-general, or other officer, commanding the first division.

2. Under subdivision tenth thereof, where the applicant
has been discharged, or under subdivision eleventh or
twelfth, the certificate of discharge; and, where it does
not show all the facts, the affidavit of the applicant, or of
another person, acquainted with the facts.

3. Under subdivision thirteenth thereof, the certificate
of a reliable physician, or the affidavit of the applicant,

or both; or any other evidence satisfactory to the commissioner.
4. Under any other subdivision thereof, an affidavit of

the applicant, or an affidavit, satisfactory to the commis

sioner, of another person in his behalf, stating the facts,
entitling the applicant to exemption. Each certificate, specified in this section, must be accompanied with satisfactory
proof, by affidavit, of the genuineness of the signature
thereto; and each affidavit and certificate must be filed
With the commissioner of jurors, and must be kept open by
him, at all reasonable times, to public inspection.

§ 1083. The captain, or other commanding officer, of each
company or troop, in the first division of the national guard,
must deliver to the commissioner of jurors, on or before
the first day of July in each year, and at any other time
when he may require it, a list, certified by him, containing
the full name and residence of each member and officer of
his company or troop, Who is uniformed and equipped, and
faithfully performs his duty, as prescribed in subdivision
tenth of the last section but one. No other name shall be
inserted in the list. The list must be filed in the commissioner’s office. The major-general, or other officer, commanding that division, must, When necessary, issue orders to carry

this section into effect. He must also furnish to the commissioner of jurors, when so required, a list, certified by
him, containing the name and residence of each officer or
other member of that division, not comprised in the lists
of the companies and troops. An officer, Who neglects
or refuses to perform the duty, specified in this section; or
Who includes, in a list certified by him, the name of a person who is not described in this section; or who gives a
false certificate, in a case specified in the last section ; forfeits the sum of fifty dollars for each offense.

§ 1084. The jury year, in the city and county of NewYork, commences on the first day of October. A person
who has actually served, as a trial juror, in a court of
record of the State, Within that city and county, twelve
days Within a jury year, is entitled to be discharged by the
court; except that he shall not be discharged, until the

close of a trial, in which he is serving, when the twelve
days expire. A person discharged, as prescribed in this section, is, thereafter, during the same jury year, exempt from
jury service in any county of the State. Where the certificates of one or more clerks of the courts, made as prescribed
in section 1089 of this act, show that a person is entitled
to a discharge, as prescribed in this section, the commissioner of jurors must, upon request, certify to the fact. A
person cannot serve as a trial juror,'in courts of record, at
more than two terms, in a jury year.

§ 1085. The judge, holding a term, may, in his discretion,
excuse a trial juror from service at that term, for not more

-than three days at a time, where the exigencies of his business require his temporary exemption. The judge may
also discharge, for the term, one or more jurors, notified
and attending, whose further attendance is not required
for the trial of issues at that term. Or he may discharge,
until a day certain, one or more jurors, notified and attending, whose attendance will not be required, for the trial of
issues, until that day. Each juror, so discharged until a
day certain, must attend at the opening of the court on
that day, and thereafter until he is discharged, without
further notice. If he fails so to do, he is liable to the same
punishment, and the same proceedings must be taken, as if
he had failed to attend, at the time fixed in the notice
given to him.

§ 1086. Except as prescribed in the last section, a court
or a judge shall not excuse a person, liable to serve as a
trial juror, and duly drawn and notified, unless it is shown,
by the oath of the juror, or, if he is unable to attend, by
the oath of another person, acquainted With the facts, that
he is then necessarily absent from the city, and will not return in time to serve; or that the interests of the public,
or of the juror, will be materially injured by his attendance;
or that he is physically unable to serve; or that his Wife,
or a near relative of himself or his wife, has recently died

or is dangerously sick. Where a person liable to serve is
excused, in a case specified in this section, or where a person, notified to attend a term, as a trial juror, is entitled to,
and claims an exemption, he can be excused only by the
judge, holding the term, which he has been notified to
attend. Such an excuse does not extend beyond that term.

§ 1087. A person, who has been notified to attend, as a
trial juror, and who applies to be excused, as prescribed in
the last section, must bring the notice, if he has received it,
into court, and present it, in open court, to the judge; or, if
he cannot personally attend, he must send it, by a person
capable of making the necessary proof, in relation to his
claim to be excused. A note of the excuse, and of the
reason therefore, attested by the judge, who must app'en'd
his signature or his initials thereto, must also be made
upon the notice to attend; or, if the juror has not brought
it into court, upon a separate piece of paper; which must
be transmitted to the commissioner of jurors, by the clerk,
as part of the return, made as prescribed in section 1089 of
this act.

§ 1088. A person, serving as a trial juror, elsewhere than
in a court of record, is excused from jury duty in a court
of record, only during the time of his actual service elsewhere. '

§ 1089. The clerk of each court of record in the city and
county of New-York, must, within ten days after the close
of each term, for which trial jurors have been drawn, or
after the discharge of the trial jurors, if they are discharged f
before the close of the term, return to the commissioner of;
jurors, the certified copy of the minute of the drawing of
the jurors, received from the sheriff, and the sheriff’s return
thereto, or a copy of each paper, certified by the clerk;
together with each notice or other paper, attested by a
judge, as prescribed in the last section but one. The clerk

must also deliver to the commissioner therewith, his certificate, specifying, distinctly and in detail, as follows:

1. The name and residence of each juror, who attended
and served; the number of days the juror attended for the
purpose of serving; and the number of days he actually

served.
2. The name and residence of each juror, who was excused or discharged; with the reason therefore.

3. The name and residence of each person notiiied, who
did not attend or serve.

4. The name and residence of each person lined, and the
date and amount of his fine, unless the fine has been remitted, as prescribed in section 1109 of this act.

The return and certificate must be filed in the commissioner’s oiiice, and shall not be altered or corrected, except
in pursuance of an order of the court. If a clerk fails to
make a complete return and certificate, as prescribed in this section, he is guilty of a contempt of the court; and the commissioner of jurors must institute the appropriate proceedings to punish him accordingly.

§ 1090. Trial jurors must be selected by the commissioner of jurors, who must alone decide upon their qualifications, and exemptions, except as otherwise expressly
prescribed in this article. But this section does not impair
the right to challenge a particular juror at the trial. The
commissioner may issue, to a person entitled to an exemption, a certilicate of that fact, which exempts the person, to
whom it is granted, from jury duty, during the time limited
therein. He must keep a record of all proceedings before
him, or in his office. He is entitled to, and must collect,
for the benefit of the city, for a copy of a paper furnished
by him, the same fees as the clerk of a court of record.

§ 1091. The commissioner of jurors may, from time to
time appoint, and at pleasure remove, one or more assistants, clerks in his office, and messengers, and may fix their
compensation. He may designate, in writing, an assistant,

to attend, in his place, the drawing of jurors, for a particular term. The commissioner, or each assistant, whom he
designates for the purpose, by a certificate, filed in the
oihce of the county clerk, may administer an oath or
amrmation, in relation to any matter, embraced Within the
provisions of this article.

§ 1092. The president and commissioners of the department of taxes and assessments, the police commissioners, and
all other public officers in the city of New-York, must render to the commissioner of jurors, all the assistance in their
power, to enable him to procure the names of persons, liable
to serve as trial jurors.

§ 1093. The board of aldermen of the city of New-York
must take care, that suitable rooms, and other accommodations are provided for the use of the commissioner of jurors.
If, by the first day of March, in any year, suitable rooms
have not been provided for his use, for the year commencing on the first day of May next ensuing, he may lease
suitable rooms, for that year, and may pay the rent, out
of the money received by him for £nes and penalties.
But a lease so made shall not take eifect, until a majority
of the members of the board, specified in section 1114
of this act, indorse thereupon a certificate, signed by them,
to the effect, that, in their opinion, such a lease is necessary, in consequence of the omission to make other suitable
provision, as prescribed in this section; that the rooms

leased are required, for the proper performance of the duties
of the commissioner; that the rent payable therefore, by
the terms of the lease, is, in their opinion, reasonable ; and
that the lease is, in all other respects, fair, just, and proper.
The proper and necessary expenses of the commissioner’s
oliice, including the reasonable compensation of his assistants, clerks, and messengers, necessary printing and advertising, books, stationery, and other articles required for the
convenient discharge of his duties, may be paid by him, out
of the money, received by him for £nes and penalties. If

there is a deficiency, the board of aldermen must provide

for the payment thereof, by the comptroller of the city of
N ew-York, out of the city treasury.

§ 1094. The commissioner must commence the preparation of lists of trial jurors, in the month of May, in each

year. For that purpose, the names of the persons, liable

to serve as trial jurors, must be entered in suitable books,
alphabetically, with the occupation, place of business,
and residence of each, as far as those particulars _can be
conveniently ascertained. After the first day of June, he
must publish a notice, for at least ten days, in not less
than six of the newspapers published in the city, that
claims for exemption will be heard by him. He may
insert in, or append to the notice, copies of such portions
of the statutes, relating to jurors, as he deems expedient.
He must hear and determine all claims forexemption, and
must keep a record of the persons exempted, and of the
period of tinie for which the exemption of each is allowed.

§ 1095. The commissioner may cause to be personally
served, on any person, within the city, a notice, requiring him
to attend, at the commissioner’s office, at a specihed time,
not less than twenty-four hours after service of the notice,
for the purpose of testifying concerning his own liability,
or the liability of any other person, to serve as a juror. A
person so notified must attend, and testify accordingly.
If he fails to attend, as specified in the notice, for any cause,
except physical inability; or if he refuses to be sworn, or
to answer any legal and pertinent question, put to him
by the commissioner; he forfeits fifty dollars for each
failure or refusal. One or more successive notices may be
served upon the same person, where he fails to attend, as
required by a former notice; and he is liable to the same
penalty, for each failure so to attend. But the commissioner may, in his discretion. dispense with the personal
attendance of a person so notified, where another person,
cognizant of the facts, is produced and testifies in his

stead; and Where a person has so attended twice, he cannot be required to attend again, in the same jury year.

§ 1096. On or before the first day of October, in each
year, the commissioner must return to the clerk of the city
and county of New-York, to be filed in his office, certified
copies of the lists, prepared by him, of the persons, liable to
serve as trial jurors in the courts of record, for the ensuing
jury year. He may, from time to time thereafter, strike
from the lists kept by him, the name of a person, who is
found by him to be exempt or disqualified. In that case,
he must record the reason Why the name is stricken off.

§ 1097. When the certified copies of the lists have been
returned, as prescribed in the last section, the ballots for
trial jurors, used in the previous year, must be returned,
by the county clerk, to the commissioner, Who must destroy
those which are not required for the current  year.
The ballots for the current jury year must be prepared by
the commissioner, Who may use, for that purpose, so many
of the ballots, prepared for the previous year, as he deems
expedient. The ballots, so prepared, must be delivered by
the commissioner to the county clerk, and deposited by
the county clerk, or his deputy, in a box, as prescribed in article second of title third of this chapter. The commissioner may, from time to time thereafter, return certified
copies of additional lists, containing the names of persons,
liable to serve as trial jurors, which Were omitted from the
former lists; and ballots, containing those names, must be
prepared in like manner, and used for the residue _of the

jury year.

§ 1098. The number of trialjurors, to be drawn for each.
term, and each separate part of a term, of a court of record

in the city, at which issues of fact are triable by jury,
must be fixed by a general order of the court, or, if it is not

so fixed for a term, or a separate part of a term, by a Written order of the judge, appointed to hold the same. The

order, or a certified copy thereof, must be filed in the office
of the county clerk. If the number has not been fixed, in
either mode, at the time of the drawing, one hundred trial
jurors must be drawn for each term, or for each part, if the
term consists of two or more separate parts.

§ 1099. On a day, designated by the county clerk, not
less than fourteen, nor more than twenty days, before the
day appointed for holding, in the city, a term of a court of
record, at which issues of fact are triable by jury, the commissioner of jurors, in person, or by an assistant designated
by him; the sheriff of the city and county of New-York,
in person, or by his under-sheriff ; and one or more judges

of courts of record, residing in the city, must attend, at the
odice of the county clerk, to witness and assist in the drawing of trial urors for the term.

§ 1100. At least six days before the drawing, the county
clerk must publish notice thereof, in at least three newspapers, published in the city. He must also cause written
notice thereof to be served upon the sheriff, the commissioner of jurors, and at least three judges of one or more
courts of record, residing in the city.

§ 1101. If at least one judge of a court of record, residing
in the city, and also the commissioner of jurors, and the
sheriff, in person, or represented, as prescribed in the last section but one, do not attend, the clerk, or, in his absence,
the deputy-clerk, must adjourn the drawing to the next
day. Thereupon the clerk must forthwith cause to be
served, upon the absent commissioner or sheriff, and upon
at least three judges of one or more courts of record, residing in the city, written notice, to attend the drawing upon
the adjourned day.

§ 1102. If the officers, specified in section 1099 of this
act, attend upon the adjourned day, but not otherwise, the

clerk, or, in his absence, the deputy-clerk, must proceed,
in their presence, to draw the jurors.

§ 1103. The drawing must be conducted as follows:

1. The county clerk, or his deputy, must shake the box
containing the ballots, so as thoroughly to mix them.

2. He must then, without seeing the name contained in
any ballot, publicly draw out of the box, one ballot ; and
continue to draw, in like manner, one ballot at a time, until
the requisite number has been drawn.

3. A minute of the drawing must be kept by one of the
attending oiiicers, in which must be entered the name, contained in each ballot drawn, before another ballot is drawn.

4. After drawing the requisite number, the minute of the
drawing, containing the names of the persons drawn, with
the proper additions of each, and specifying for what court
and for what term they were drawn, must be signed by the
clerk or his deputy, and the attending officers, and nled in
the clerk’s office.

§ 1104. If the term consists of two or more separate
parts, the trial jurors for each part must be drawn, and a
minute of the drawing must be made, signed, and filed,
and the subsequent proceedings must be the san1e, as if it
was a distinct term.

§ 1105. The commissioner may issue, to a trial juror so
drawn, a printed notice, informing him that he has been
drawn, and will be duly notified by the sheriff, and containing copies of such portions of this article, as the commissioner

_ deems advisable.

§ 1106. The clerk must deliver, to the sheriff, a certified
copy of the minute, or of each minute, if there are two or
more. The sheriff must notify each juror, named therein, to
attend the term or part, for which‘ he was drawn, by serving upon him, at least six days before the commencement

thereof, a notice, addressed to him, stating that he has been
drawn as a trial juror for, and is required to attend, the
term or part, specified in the notice. The notice may be
'served personally, or by leaving it at the juror’s residence,
or usual place of business, with a person of proper age and
discretion. Before the commencement of the term or part,
the sheriff must file, with the clerk, the certified copy of
the minute, with a return, under his hand, indorsed
thereupon, or annexed thereto, naming each person notified,
and specifying the manner in which he was notified.

§ 1107. The clerk of each court, for a term of which trial
jurors are notified to attend, by the sheriff, must certify to
the clerk of the board of aldermen, each case, where less
than a majority of the persons, named in a minute of a
drawing, are returned as personally served. The board of
aldermen are prohibited from allowing or paying any fees
or charges to the sheriff, for notifying any of the persons
named in that minute, or for making a return thereupon.
A clerk of a court, who omits to notify the clerk of the
board of aldermen, as prescribed in this section, is liable
to a penalty of one hundred dollars, for each omission, to be
recovered by any person suing therefore.

§ 1108. At any time, during the sitting of a term of a

' court of record in the city, the court may direct an additional number of trial jurors to be drawn, for the term, or
for the part, at which the order is made. The order must

specify the number to be drawn, and the time of drawing._

The drawing must be conducted, as prescribed in sections
1099 and 1103 of this act, but without previous notice.
The sheriff must forthwith notify each juror drawn, in such
manner as the court directs, to attend the texm or part, at
the time specified in the order.

§ 1109. Where ,a person, duly drawn, and notified to

attend a term of a court of record, as a trial juror, fails to
attend, at the time specified in the notice, or from day

to day, the court, at that term, must impose upon him a hne
of not less than hfty nor more than two hundred and
hfty dollars. A hue thus imposed may be Wholly or
partly remitted, by direction of the judge, in open court,
before the end of the same term, and upon good cause
shown; otherwise it shall not be remitted, except as prescribed in sections 1113 and 1114 of this act. Each remission, so made by the judge, With the reason therefore, must
be entered in the minutes of the court. This section applies
to a special juror, as Well as to an ordinary trial juror.

§ 1110. Where a person, duly drawn and notihed, fails to
attend and serve, at a term of a court of record, as required
by law, Without having been excused, the court, besides
imposing a hne, as prescribed in the last section, may direct
the sheriff to arrest him, and bring him before the court;
and, when he has been so brought, it may, in its discretion,
compel him to serve.

§ 1111. A list of trial jurors, for each of the district
courts, must be selected by the commissioner of jurors; and
must consist of not less than fifty, nor more than one hundred jurors. A person shall not be placed upon such a
list, who does not reside in the district, in which the court
is held. The judge of each district court must impose a
hue of twenty-hve dollars, upon each person, duly drawn,
and notihed to attend the court, as a trial juror, Who fails to
attend, as required by the notice. The clerk of the court
must, Within ten days thereafter, transmit to the commissioner of jurors a certihcate, showing that the hue has been
so imposed, and stating how the notice to attend was served
upon the delinquent, in order that the same proceedings
may be had, as in the case of a delinquent juror in a court
of record A judge, or a clerk, who violates this section,
forfeits one hundred and hfty dollars for each offense.

§ 1112. The board for the selection of grand jurors must,
at the time When it selects the grand jurors for each jury

year, also select, from the lists of trial jurors for that year,
the names of not less than one hundred and twenty, nor
more than one hundred and fifty persons, to constitute the
sheriff’s jurors, for that jury year. The co1nmissioner of
jurors must forthwith transmit, to the sheriff of the city
and county of New-York, a list, certilied by him, containing
the names of the persons so selected, with the proper additions of each, and showing that they have been selected, as
prescribed in this section. The sheriff must cause ballots
to be prepared, as prescribed in article second of title third
of this chapter, and to be deposited in a proper box.
Where the sheriff is authorized or required by law, to
empanel a jury for any purpose, the requisite number of
ballots must be drawn from the box, as prescribed in that article, by the sheriff, or by his under-sheriff, or deputysheriff. But the sheriff may, in his discretion, divide the
names contained in the list, into three panels, each containing an equal number of names, as nearly as may be. In
that case, he must designate the months, in which each
panel will be used, so that the jury duty shall be clistributed equally, as nearly as may be, among the jurors; and
ballots shall be deposited in the box, at the beginning of
each month, containing the names of the jurors designated

for that month.

§ 1113. The commissioner of jurors must cause a notice to
be served upon each delinquent trial juror, returned as having
been fined, stating the sum in which, and the term at which
he was fined, and requiring him to show cause, if he has any,
before the commissioner, at the latter’s office, on a specified
day, and at a specified hour, why payment of the line should
not be enforced. The notice must be served at least six
days, before the day therein specified. If the sheriff’s return
shows that notice to attend, as a trial juror, was personally
served upon the person lined, the notice to show cause, as prescribed in this section, may be served on him personally, or
by leaving it at his residence, or usual place of business, with
a person of proper age and discretion; otherwise it must be

served upon him personally. If a person so notified fails to
attend, the line must be enforced. If he attends, he may
demand a hearing before the board for the enforcement ofjury fines ; otherwise the commissioner must decide, in the
first instance, with respect to the suiiiciency of the cause
shown, if any; and his decision, when confirmed by that
board, is conclusive, with respect to that fine. If the person
fined demands a hearing before the board of enforcement,
the commissioner must appoint a time for the hearing; and
the person fined must then attend, without further notice.

§ 1114. The presiding justice of the supreme court, in
the first judicial department, the chief-judge of the court of
common pleas, the chief-judge of the superior court, the
chief-justice of the marine court, the mayor, the recorder,
the city judge, the udge of the court of general sessions,
and the commissioner of jurors, constitute the board for the
enforcement of jury hues. The board must meet, at the
oiiice of the commissioner of jurors, on the last Monday in
October in each year, and on the last Monday of each
month thereafter, until and including the following month
of June; and as much oftener, as the business before it
requires. Three members of the board constitute a quorum. The board, either upon a hearing, or when acting
upon the commissioner’s decision, as the case requires, has
exclusive power, except as in this article otherwise prescribed, to remit the whole or any part of a nne. The
board, or the commissioner, may, in its or his discretion, hear
testimony, or determine a case upon affidavits; and may, from
time to time, adjourn the hearing or final disposition of a
particular case.

§ 1115. The board may compel the attendance of any person, required to appear before it, as prescribed in the last section but one. It may issue a warrant, directed to the sheriff
of the city and county of New-York, commanding him to
arrest, and bring before the board, a person, who fails to
attend, at the time appointed for hearing his case, or to pay

a fine imposed upon him, and not remitted by the board.
If a delinquent trtal juror, duly drawn, and returned by the
sheriff as personally notified to attend a term, or personally
notiiied to attend before the commissioner, as prescribed in
the last section but one, is, in the opinion of the board, able
to pay his fine, the board may make an order, directing the
sheriff to arrest him, and imprison him in the county jail,
until the fine is paid, not exceeding thirty days. The sheriff
must obey such an order. The board may make an order,
directing that a person, paying a fine imposed upon him,
be excused fron1 jury duty, for a period not exceeding one
year.

§ 1116. After ten days have expired, since the final
decision of the board of enforcement, with respect to a
fine, as prescribed in the last section but one, if the fine
has not been remitted or paid, the commissioner must issue

a warrant, under his hand, directed to the sheriff of the
city and county of New-York, reciting the facts, and commanding the sheriff to collect from each person, named in
the schedule annexed thereto, the sum, set opposite that
person’s name in the schedule, and to pay over the same to
the commissioner. The schedule must contain the names of
persons, fined and notified to show cause, Whose fines have
not been Wholly paid or remitted; it must show the amount
of each £ne, remaining unremitted or unpaid ; and the residence or usual place of business of each person fined, as far
as it can be conveniently ascertained. The sheriff‘ must
collect each fine, by a levy upon and sale of the personal
property of the person fined, as prescribed by law, Where
an execution against property is issued upon a judgment,
rendered in a court of record. The sheriff‘ is entitled, in
each case, to the same fees as upon such an execution, to be
collected in the same manner. He must return the Warrant
and schedule, with his proceedings thereupon, to the commissioner, Within thirty days after the delivery thereof to him;
and must then pay over the money collected, less his fees.
His return may be compelled by the supreme court, in the
same manner as the return of an execution against property, issued upon a judgment rendered in that court. For
his failure to collect a fine, an action may be maintained
against him, in a case Where such an action may be main-'
tained by a judgment creditor, against a sheriff failing to
collect an execution against property, and with like effect.
The provisions of section 1119 of this act apply to such an
action.

§ 1117. The commissioner must, Within thirty days after ,
the return of the Warrant to him, file with the clerk of

the court, by which each uncollected line Was imposed, a
certificate, to the effect that the Warrant has been returned,
and showing What fines remain uncollected. Thereupon the
clerk must make, in the docket-book of judgments, kept by
him, the same entries, as nearly as may be, with respect to
each uncollected fine, as if it was a final judgment, rendered
in an action. If the line was imposed by a court, other
than the supreme court, the clerk thereof must immediately
transmit a transcript of the entries, to the clerk of the city
and county of New-York, Who must file it, and make the
appropriate entries, in his docket-book of judgments. The
commissioner must pay the clerks’ fees, at the rate allowed
for similar services, With respect to judgments. When the
entries have been made, the fine, with interest, becomes a
lien upon the real property of the person fined, as if it Was
recovered by a judgment in the same court; and an execution to collect it may be issued, directed to the sheriff of
the city and county of New-York, as upon such a judgment.
The commissioner has, in relation to the execution, and the
satisfaction of the line, all the powers of the attorney for
a party recovering such a judgment, in relation to the 
ment, and the execution issued thereupon.

§ 1118. The commissioner of jurors must receive all
money, paid or collected for lines or penalties, as prescribed
in this article; and he may make all payments therefrom,
which he is authorized by this article to make. He must
give a receipt for. any money paid to him, for a nne or

penalty. He must keep a just and faithful account of all
receipts and payments, by items, showing the name of the
‘person, from whom each sum of money was received, and to
whom each sum of money was paid; and must, at all reasonable times, keep his account open to public inspection. At
the end of each calendar year, his account must be verified by
his affidavit, to the effect, that it is, in all respects, just and
true; and that he has not received any sum of money, during the year, for which he has not charged himself in the
account. The account, thus verified, must be audited and
certified, by at least three other members of the board for
the enforcement of jury fines; and the commissioner must
thereupon pay over, to the chamberlain of the city, the balance, if any, in his hands. The account, thus audited and
certified, must immediately be transmitted by the commissioner, to the clerk of the board of aldermen; and must be
published in the newspaper, designated, as prescribed by
law, for the publication of the oiiicial proceedings of city
officers.

§ 1119. The corporation attorney of the city of NewYork must, when required by the commissioner of jurors,
prosecute, in the proper court, an action for the collection of
each penalty, incurred as prescribed in this article; unless
he is satisfied, upon an examination of the case, that there
is a defense to the action. The action must be maintained
in the name of the mayor, aldermen, and commonalty of the
city of New-York, as plaintiEs. The commissioner, with the
assent of the corporation attorney, may compromise, settle,
or discontinue, an action so brought. From the proceeds of
an action, prosecuted to judgment and execution, or compromised, as prescribed in this section, the corporation
attorney may retain the taxable or taxed costs. He must
pay over the remainder, to the commissioner.

§ 1120. A physician, who knowingly gives a false certificate,
or makes a false representation, for the purpose of enabling
or assisting a person, to be discharged, excused, or exempted

from service, as a trial juror in the city and county of NewYork, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

§ 1121. A person, to whom application is made, within
the city of N ew-York, by the commissioner of jurors, or
by his authority, for information, as to a fact, upon which
the liability of himself, or any other person, to serve as a
trial juror, depends, and who refuses to give information
relating thereto, which he can give, or knowingly gives
false information relating thereto; or a person who knowingly makes to the commissioner of jurors, or to a person

acting by his authority, a false representation, as to the
identity, residence, or any other matter, relating to the
liability of himself, or any other person, to serve as a trial
juror, forfeits fifty dollars for each offense.

§ 1122. A person who gives, pays, promises, or offers,
money, or any other thing, to the commissioner of jurors,
the sheriff, the county clerk, or other clerk of a court; or to
the deputy of, or a person employed by, the county clerk or
other clerk of a court; or to an ofHcer, messenger, or other
person, employed by the sheriff, or the commissioner of
jurors; for the purpose of enabling or assisting himself, or
any other person, named or drawn as a trial juror, to evade,
or to be discharged, exempted, or excused from service; or
who knowingly makes a false statement or representation,
to a judge, the commissioner of jurors, or a member of the
board of enforcement of jury fines, for such a purpose; or
who knowingly retains, conceals, suppresses, or willfully
destroys, a notice to attend, before the commissioner of
jurors, or at a term of a court, or any other paper, relating
to the liability to serve, or service, as a trial juror, left at the
residence or place of business of another, who has been
named or drawn as a trial juror, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
The district-attorney must prosecute for each offense, specifled in this or the next two sections, which comes to his
knowledge.

§ 1123. An officer, or a person employed by the sheriff,
by the commissioner of urors, or by the county clerk, or
other clerk of a court, who takes money, or any other thing,
as a gift, bribe, or payment, for the purpose of enabling or
assisting a person, named or drawn as a trial juror, to evade,
or to be discharged, exempted, or excused from jury duty;
or who willfully and knowingly prevents or hinders the execution of any provision of this article, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

§ 1124. A person, named or drawn as a trial uror, to whom
an offer or suggestion to procure his discharge, exemption,
or excuse from jury duty, for or in consideration of a corrupt inducement or reward, is made by any person, and
who fails, within twenty-four hours thereafter, to inform
the commissioner of jurors thereof, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

§ 1125. A person, who swears falsely in an affidavit, or
testifies falsely upon an inquiry, made as prescribed in
this article, is guilty of perjury, in a case Where falsely
swearing, in an aflzidavit, used upon a motion in a civil
action, or falsely testifying, upon the trial of an issue of
fact in such an action, would constitute that crime.

ARTICLE SECOND.

Pnovrsrons RELATING TO TRIAL J UBORB IN mm Gomrrx or limes.

S30. 1126. Qualifications of trial jurors.

1127. Persons exempt from service.

1128. Evidence of right to exemption in certain cases.

1129. Length of jury service required. Notice to juror to attend.

1130. When court to excuse juror from service.

1131. Clerk of court to certify to commissioner, as to attendance, excuses,

fines, etc., of jurors.

1132. Commissioner of jurors to select trial jurors; his general powers.
1133. Id.; to receive fees and fines for benefit of county.

1134. Supervisors to provide for his expenses, etc.

1135. Assessors to return persons liable, and commissioner to select jurors.
1136. When commissioner to publish notice, and receive evidence of exemption.
1137. Commissioner to prepare list, and file transcript.
1138. Supplemental lists may be afterwards made.

SIC. 1139. Ballots to be prepared, and deposited in box.

1140. VVhat officers to attend drawing; how many jurors to be drawn.

1141. Proceedings preliminary to the drawing.

1142. Drawing; how conducted.

1143. Certificate to be made, and boxes sealed up.

1144. Subsequent drawings; how conducted.

1145. Proceedings when first box exhausted.

1146. Commissioner to transmit panel to sheriff; sherif to notify jurors.
1147. Days for which the jurors are to be notided. Excusing jurors, and

changing days of their attendance.

1148. Sheriff to make return of jurors notified.

1149. Court may at any time order a new panel. How drawn.

1150. Jurors in certain special proceedings.

1151. Compensation to judges, etc., for services under this article.

1152. Court of record to fine juror for non-attendance.

1153. Juror may also be arrested, and compelled to serve.

1154. Commissioner to notify jurors fined to appear; board for remission

and enforcement of dnes.
1155. Commissioner to collect hues, and to make return of unpaid fines;

precept thereupon.
1156. Fines, not collected under precept,to be docketed and enforced as judgments.

1157. When lien discharged.

1158. Commissioner, etc., corruptly omitting name, is guilty of felony.
1159. Commissioners other willful neglect, a misdemeanor.

1160. Giving false information, or suppressing notice, a misdemeanor.
1161. Penalty for physician giving false certificate.

1162. Commissioner to report and pay over money.

§ 1126. In order to be qualified to serve, as a trial juror,
in a court of record in the county of Kings, a person
must be:

1. A male citizen of the United States, and a resident of

that county. .
2. Not less than twenty-one, nor more than sixty years

of age.

3. The owner, in his own right, of real property, of the
value of one hundred and fifty dollars, or of personal
property, of the value of two hundred and Iifty dollars ; or
the husband of a woman, who is the owner, in her own right,
of real or personal property, of that value.

4. In the possession of his natural faculties; and not infirm
or decrepit.

5. Free from all legal exceptions; intelligent; of sound
mind and good character; and able to read and Write the
English language understandingly. '

§ 1127. Either of the following persons, ‘although qualified, is entitled to an exemption from service, as a tria.l
juror, upon his claiming an exemption, as prescribed in this article:

1. A clergyman, or a minister of any religion, ofliciating
as such, and not following any other calling.

2. A practicing physician, surgeon, or surgeon dentist,
having patients requiring his daily professional attention,
and not following any other calling.

3. An attorney and counsellor at law, in actual practice,
having causes in court, in which he is attorney or counsel
for another person, and not following any other calling.

4. A professor or teacher in a college, academy, or public
school, or in a private school for the instruction of pupils
in the usual branches of education, not following any other
calling.

5. The holder of an office, under the United States, or
the State, or the county, or the city of Brooklyn, or a town
of the county; whose oiiicial duties, at the time, prevent his
attendance as a juror.

6. A captain, engineer, or other officer,_actually employed
upon a vessel, making regular trips; or a licensed pilot, actually following that calling.

7. A superintendent, conductor, or engineer, employed
by a railroad company, other than a street railroad company; or a telegraph operator, employed by a telegraph
company; who is actually doing duty in an office, or along
the railroad or telegraph line, of the company, by which
he is employed.

8. An oiiicer, non-commissioned oiiicer, musician, or private, actually serving in a brigade, regiment, battalion, company, or troop, of the national guard of the State, uniformed
and equipped, according to law, and faithfully performing
his duty, by making the parades, and attending the drills,
inspections, and reviews, required by law: or a general or
staff-officer, actually performing duty as such ; or a person
who has been honorably discha.1'ged from the national
guard, after five years’ service, in either capacity.

9. A person, who has been honorably discharged from the
military forces of the State, after seven years’ faithful service therein. But, in order to entitle a person to exemp-_

tion, under this subdivision, his service must have been

performed before the 23d day of April, 1862, either as a
general or staff-oiiicer, or as an officer, non-commissioned
officer, musician, or private, in a uniformed battalion, company, or troop, of the militia of the State, and armed,
uniformed, and equipped according to law; or a portion
thereof, during that period, and in that capacity, and the
remainder, since the 23d day of April, 1862, as a member
of the national guard of the State.

10. A person, Who, after faithfully performing the duties
of a fireman, in a fire company or fire department, duly organized, according to the laws of the State, for five successive
years, has been honorably discharged therefrom; or Who is,
at the time, an officer or member of a fire company, duly
organized, according to the laws of the State, and faithfully
performing his duty therein.

11. A person, who is physically incapable of performing
jury duty, by reason of severe sickness, deafness, or other
physical disorder.

12. A person belonging to the army or navy of the United States; or to the police force or fire department of the
city of Brooklyn. .

13. A person otherwise specially exempted by law.

§ 1128. The evidence of the right to exemption, as prescribed in the last section, is as follows:

1. Under subdivision eighth thereof, Where the applicant
is a member of the national guard, below the rank of briga.
dier-general, the certificate of the commanding officer of the
brigade, regiment, battalion, company, or troop, to which
the applicant belongs, dated Within three months of the
time of presenting it.

2. Under subdivision eighth, ninth, or tenth thereof, Where
the applicant has been discharged, the certificate of discharge ; accompanied, Where it does not show all the facts,

with the affidavit of the applicant, or of another person,
acquainted With the facts.

3. Under subdivision tenth thereof, Where the applicant
is an officer or member of a fire company, the certificate of
the foreman, or other chief oiiicer, of the company, to which
the applicant belongs, dated Within three months of the
time of presenting it.

4. Under any other subdivision thereof, an affidavit of the
applicant; or an affidavit, satisfactory to the commissioner,
of another person in his behalf, stating the facts, entitling the applicant to exemption.

Each certificate, specified in this section, must be accompanied with satisfactory proof, by aiiidavit, of the genuineness of the signature thereto; and each affidavit and certificate must be filed with the commissioner of jurors, and
must be kept open by him, at all reasonable times, to public
inspection.

§ 1129. A person shall not be required to serve, as a
trial juror, more than six days, at any term, for Which his
name is drawn, as prescribed in this article, unless the court,
for good cause, otherwise specially directs; except that he
shall not be discharged, until the close of a trial, in which
he is serving, at the time when the six days expire. A person shall not be required to serve, as a trial juror, except
by the special order of the judge presiding at or holding
the term, or as otherwise specially prescribed in this article,
unless at least three days’ previous notice to attend has

been served upon him, as prescribed in section 1146 of
this act. '

§ 1130. The judge presiding at, or holding a term, may,
in his discretion, excuse a trial juror, attending thereat,
from service, during the Whole or a portion of that term, in
either of the following cases:

1. Where he has actually served as a trial juror, in a
court of record in the county, Within six months before the
commencement of the term, and since the second Monday
of August, preceding the commencement thereof.

2. Where he has actually served in the county, as a grand
juror, pursuant to law, since the first Monday of September, preceding the commencement of the term.

3. Where the interests of the public, or of the juror,
Will be materially injured by his attendance; or his own
health, or the health of a member of his family, requires his
absence; or his Wife, or a near relative of himself or his

wife, has recently died.

§ 1131. The clerk of each court of record in the county
of Kings, must, Within one Week after the close of each
term, for Which trial jurors have been drawn, or after the
discharge of the trial urors, if they are discharged before
the close of the term, return to the commissioner of jurors,
the panel of trial jurors, with the sheriff’s return, received
from the sheriff, as prescribed in section 1148 of this act,
or a copy of each‘ of those papers, certified by the clerk.
The clerk must also deliver to the commissioner therewith,
a certificate, specifying, distinctly and in detail, as follows:

1. The name and residence of each juror, who attended
and served ; and the number of days he actually served.

2. The name and residence of each juror, Who Was excused
or discharged; With the reason therefore.

3. The name and residence of each person notified, Who
did not attend or serve.

4. The name and residence of each person fined, and the
date and amount of his line.

The return and certificate must be filed in the office of
the commissioner, Who must also record therefrom, upon
the list originally made by him, the date and amount of
service, performed by each person, as therein set forth.

§ 1132. Trial jurors must be selected by the commissioner of jurors, Who may decide upon their qualifications, .

and exemptions, as prescribed in this article. The commissioner may, from time to time, appoint, and at pleas- ‘
ure remove, one assistant, and as many more assistants, ‘

clerks, and messengers, as the board of supervisors directs.

The commissioner, and each assistant, Whom he designates
for the purpose, ‘by a certificate, filed in the office of the
county clerk, may administer an oath or ailirmation, in
relation to any matter, embraced Within the provisions of
this article. The commissioner must keep a record of all
proceedings before him, or in his office.

§ 1133. The commissioner is entitled to, and must collect,
for a copy of a paper furnished by him, the same fees as
the clerk of a court of record. He must furnish a copy of
each paper filed, or proceeding taken, in his office, to any
person applying therefore, and paying the fees. All the
money received by him, for fees, or fines collected from

trial jurors, or otherwise in the discharge of his duties as,

commissioner, must be accounted for by him, and paid into
the treasury of the county.

§ 1134. The board of supervisors of the county must
provide suitable rooms, and other accommodations, for the
use of the commissioner of jurors, and also for the compensation of his assistants, clerks, and messengers; and
for necessary printing and advertising, books, stationery and
other articles, required for the convenient discharge of his
duties.

§ 1135. The assessors in the city of Brooklyn, and of
each town in the county of Kings, or a majority of them,
must, after the first day of May, and on or before the first
day of July, in each year, return, to the commissioner of
jurors, a Written list, under his or their hands, containing
the names of all persons in the city or town, as the case
may be, Who are liable to serve as trial jurors; and stating
the occupation, place of business, and residence, of each
person, as far as those particulars can be conveniently ascertained. The omission to include the names of one or more
persons, so liable, or any other error or defect in a list,
does not affect the validity of any proceeding, prescribed

in this article. The commissioner must, Within the same
period, select, from the persons residing in the county,
suitable persons to serve as trial jurors. In making the
returns or selection, the assessors and the commissioner
respectively must take the names of those persons only,
Whom they believe to be qualified to serve, and not exempt
from service, as trial jurors. A list of the names so selected
must be made, by the commissioner, in a book, specifying,
as nearly as he has ascertained the facts, the occupation,
the place of business, and the residence of each person,
including the town, or, in the city of Brooklyn, the Ward.
In the list, the towns must be arranged alphabetically, and
the Wards numerically ; and the names of the jurors must
be arranged alphabetically, according to their surnames,
each under the name of the town or Ward, Where he

resides.

§ 1136. As soon after the first day of June, in each year,
as the commissioner has made the list, he must publish a

notice, for at least ten days, in at least six daily newspapers,
published in the county, to the eEect, that the list of trial
jurors for the year is ready, at his office, for examination
and correction. He must then receive evidence of disqualifications or exemptions, and must mark “not qualified ”, or
“ exempt ”, in the list, opposite the name of each person,
found to be disqualified to serve, or exempt from serving as
a trial juror, as the case requires. He must also record
therein, the ground of each disqualification or exemption.

§ 1137. On the first Monday of August in each year, or
earlier, if the corrections can be earlier made, the commissioner must prepare the list of trial jurors for the year,
by copying, from his book, the names of all persons, who
appear therein to be liable to serve as trial jurors, with the
proper additions of each. The commissioner must file a
transcript of the list, verified by his affidavit, in the office

of the county clerk.

§ 1138. Supplemental lists, containing the names and
proper additions of persons, subsequently ascertained to be
liable to serve as trial jurors, may, from time to time thereafter, be made; and transcripts thereof, verified as presplribed in the last selcgtilcin, must be filed 111: like manner, by
t e commissioner. a ots, containing t ose names, must
be prepared, as prescribed in the next section, and used, in
like manner as the other ballots therein specified, for the
residue of the jury year.

§ 1139. The commissioner must prepare ballots, by writing the names, contained in the list, a transcript of which
was filed in the oiiice of the county clerk, with the proper
additions of each person, on separate pieces of paper, which
must be uniform, as nearly as may be, in appearance. On
the second Monday of August in each year, he must deposit
the ballots, in the box kept by him for that purpose, and
must place his seal upon the box; whereupon all jury ballots, previously in use, must be destroyed. The box must
be constructed with an aperture, large enough only to conveniently admit the hand of the person, by whom the ballots
are to be drawn; and the aperture must be provided with
a cover, so arranged as to be conveniently sealed, when
closed.

§ 1140. The commissioner must seasonably notify the
justices of the supreme court, residing in the county, the
judges of the city court of Brooklyn, the county judge, and
the justices of sessions of the county, to attend, at his office,
on a day designated by him, not less than fourteen nor more
than twenty days, before the day appointed for holding a
term of a court of record in the county, at which issues of
fact are triable by jury, in order to witness and assist in
the drawing of trial jurors, for that term. The number of
trial jurors, to be drawn for each term, may be fixed by
the judge who is to preside at or hold the term, by an order
under his hand, delivered to the commissioner. If the number has not been so fixed, at the time of the drawing, one
hundred and thirty-two trial jurors must be drawn for the
term.

§ 1141. If two or more of the judges, specified in the last section, attend with or without one or more justices of,

sessions, the commissioner must break the seal of the box,
containing the ballots, open it, and exhibit the ballots for

‘ their inspection; together with his original and each supple.

mental list of trial jurors, and also the verified transcripts
thereof, filed in the county clerk’s office. The ballots, containing the names of trial jurors, excused from service, for
the whole or a portion of a previous term of a court of
record in the county, which have not already been replaced
in the box, to be redrawn, must then be replaced therein;
and the judges, attending the drawing, must take care,
when the seal is broken, that they are so replaced. If
a supplemental list has been made, and a transcript filed
since the last drawing, ballots, containing the names
appearing therein, must, at the same time, be placed in
the box. The judges and the commissioner, or a majority
of them, must appoint one of the attending oiiicers to draw
the ballots from the box, and another to checkmark the
drawing, as it proceeds, upon a copy of the lists, transcripts of "which have been filed with the county clerk.

§ 1142. The commissioner must then shake the box;
containing the ballots, so as thoroughly to mix them. The

person, appointed for that purpose, must then, without
seeing the name contained in any ballot, publicly draw one
ballot from the box, and read aloud the contents thereof.
If the drawing is for trial jurors, to serve in the city court
of Brooklyn, and the person drawn does not reside in that
city, the ballot must be returned to the box; but if he
resides in that city, or if the drawing is for trial jurors, to
serve in another court, the person, appointed to checkmark
the drawing, must place, opposite the name of the person
drawn, upon the copy of the lists, the figure 1. The ballot

Imust then be deposited in a second box, provided for that

purpose, and constructed like the first box. Another ballot must then be drawn, in like manner, from the first box:
and the same process must be repeated, until the requisite
number has been drawn; except that each name must be
checkmarked in its numerical order.

§ 1143. When the drawing is completed, the commisI sioner, and the judges by whom it Was conducted, must sign a
“ minute, at the end of the copy of the lists, upon which the

checkmarks have been made, setting forth that the trial
jurors, whose names are contained therein, were duly drawn
by them, for the court and the term therein specified, in the
order denoted by the figures. The -judges must then close
each box; and place, upon the cover thereof, their seals,
which must not be broken, except when necessary for a
subsequent drawing. ’

§ 1144. The proceedings, upon each subsequent drawing,
are the same; but the list, must be checkmarked with numbers, commencing with the number next in order, after the
last number used at the preceding drawing.

§ 1145. After all the ballots have been drawn from the
first box, and deposited in the second box, the commissioner
must make a new list, by copying the lists used upon the
preceding drawings, omitting the checkmarks. He must
then correct it, by properly indicating each person who has
been found to be disqualified, exempt, dead, or not resident
within the county; and each person, who has been excused,
and for what time. Thereafter, when trial jurors are drawn,
the ballots must be drawn from the second box ; the names
must be checkmarked on the corrected list; and the ballots
not used must be deposited in the first box; except that
where a ballot is drawn, containing the name of a person
indicated, on the corrected list, as disqualified, exempt, dead,
or non-resident, it must be destroyed; and a ballot, containing the name of a person Who has been excused, for a period
then unexpired, must be returned to the box from which it
was drawn, Without checkmarking.

§ 1146. Immediately after each drawing of trial jurors,
the commissioner must prepare a panel, verified by his affidavit, containing the names of the jurors drawn, with the
proper additions of each, and stating for What court and for
What term, they Were drawn. He must transmit the panel
to the sheriff of the county, Who must keep it on file, in his
office, for public inspection. The sheriff must forthwith
notify each juror named therein, to attend the term for
Which he Was drawn, by serving upon him a notice to that
effect, addressed to him. The notice may be served personally, or by leaving it at the juror’s residence, or usual
place of business, with a person of proper age and discretion. It must specify the days, during Which the juror ls
required to be present; and it may contain copies of such
portions of this article, as the sheriff deems proper.

§ 1147. The thirty-six trial jurors, first drawn for a term,
or such other number as the judge, appointed to hold or.
preside at the term, directs, must be notified to be present,
during the first six days of the term; and the thirty-six.
trial jurors next drawn, or such other number as the judge 3
directs, must be notified to be present, during the next six 
days of the term; and a like number during each succeeding
six days. The judge, holding or presiding at the term, may,
in his discretion, on the application of a trial juror, excuse
him, from the Whole or a part of the time of service, required
of him. The judge may also change the time of service of
a juror to a later day, during the same, or a subsequent
term of the court. Each juror, Whose time of service is
changed to a day certain, must attend, at the opening of
court on that day, and thereafter until discharged, Without further notice. If he fails so to do, he is liable to the
same punishment, as if he had been personally notihed by
the sheriff, to attend the term, and to be present on that

“day. The clerk of the court must enter in a book, kept

for that purpose, the name of each juror, who is so excused,
or whose time of service is changed.

§ 1148. Before the commencement of each term of a
court, for which trial jurors have been drawn, as prescribed
in this article, the sheriff must file, with the clerk, the panel,
or a copy of the panel, with a return, under his hand, indorsed thereupon, or annexed thereto, showing the name and
additions of each juror notified, the days during which he
was notified to attend, and the manner in which he was
notified.

§ 1149. At any time during the sitting of a term of a
court of record in the county, the court may direct
an additional number of trial jurors, to be drawn for
that term. The order must specify the number to be drawn,
and the time of drawing. The drawing must be conducted
as prescribed in sections 1141, 1142, and 1143 of this act,
but without previous notice. The sheriff must forthwith
notify each juror drawn, in such manner as the court directs,
to attend the term, at the time specified in the order.

§ 1150. In a special proceeding, pending before the
county judge of Kings county, in which a trial jury is
necessary, the judge may empanel a jury, from the trial
jurors, who are serving, at the time, in the court of sessions of the county. In a special proceeding, pending
before a judge of the city court of Brooklyn, in which a
trial jury is necessary, the judge may empanel a jury,
from the trial jurors, who are serving, at the time, in
that court. If there are no jurors serving in the court
of sessions, or in the city court, as the case may be, the
judge may make an order, requiring the commissioner
of jurors to draw the number of trial jurors, designated
therein; whereupon the commissioner must draw the requi.
site number, and the sheriff must notify them, as prescribed
in this article, for drawing and notifying other trial jurors.

§ 1151. The board of supervisors of the county must

allow to each judge, including each justice of the supreme A

court, for the services performed by him, as prescribed in
this article, such compensation, as the board deems reasonable and proper.

§ 1152. Where a person, duly drawn and notified to
attend a term of a court of record, as a trial juror, fails to
attend, at the time specified in the notice, or from day to
day, the court, at that term, must impose upon him a fine
of twenty-five dollars, for each day that he fails so to
attend. This section applies to a special juror, as Well as
to an ordinary trial juror.

§ 1153. Where a person, duly drawn and notified, fails
to attend and serve, at a term of a court of record, as
required by law, Without having been excused, the court,
besides imposing a fine, as prescribed in the last section,
may direct the sheriff to arrest him, and bring him before
the court; and, when he has been so brought, it may, in its
discretion, compel him to serve.

§ 1154. The commissioner of jurors must cause a notice
to be served upon each delinquent trial juror, returned as
having been fined, stating the sum in which, and the term
at Which he was fined, and requiring him to show cause,
if he has any, before the board, specified in this section,
at the commissioner’s office, on a day, not less than three
days thereafter, and at an hour specified in the notice,
Why the fine should be remitted. The commissioner must
notify the justices of the supreme court, residing in the
county, the county judge, and the chief-judge of the city
court of Brooklyn, to attend at the same time and place,
and act with him as a board, for the remission and enforcement of jury fines. It is their duty to attend, and act
accordingly. The commissioner, and two of those justices
or judges, constitute a quorum. The board may, in its discretion, hear testimony; and it may, from time to time,

adjourn the meeting, or the hearing or final disposition of
a particular case. It may remit the Whole or any part of a
fine; but a line shall not be remitted or reduced, unless the
person, upon Whom it has been imposed, or, if a reason
satisfactory to the board is given, why his affidavit cannot
be furnished, another person in his behalf, makes, and files
with the commissioner, an affidavit, stating the grounds,
upon which a remission or reduction is claimed. Each affidavit, so filed, must be kept open to public inspection. “

§ 1155. The commissioner of jurors must receive each
line, paid or collected, as prescribed in this article. When
ten days have expired, since the final disposition of a case
by the board, the commissioner must file, in the office of the
clerk of the court, a return, containing the name of each
juror fined, Whose flue remains unpaid, and a statement of
the sum remaining unpaid. The clerk must thereupon issue
to the commissioner, a precept, under the seal of the court,
specifying the name of each person fined, and the amount
of his fine remaining unpaid; and commanding the commissioner to levy and enforce collection of each fine, and to
return the precept, With his doings thereupon, Within ninety
days after the receipt thereof. For the purpose of collecting a fine, the commissioner must levy upon and sell the
personal property of a person lined, with like effect, and
subject to the same provisions of law, as Where a sheriff
levies upon and sells personal property, by virtue of an
execution, issued upon a judgment of a court of record.

§ 1156. The commissioner must return the precept, ac
cording to its command, to the clerk of the court issuing it.‘
If he fails so to do, the court may enforce the return, by
attachment for contempt. When the precept is returned,
the clerk must make, in the docket of judgments kept by
him, the same entries, as nearly as may be, With respect to
each uncollected fine, as if it was a final judgment, rendered
in an action. If the ‘due was imposed at a term of the city
court of Brooklyn, the clerk thereof must immediately

transmit a transcript of the entries, to the clerk of the
county of Kings; who must ‘rile it, and make the appropriate entries in his docket of judgments. When the

entries have been made, the fine, with interest, becomes
a lien upon the real property of the person fined, as if it
was recovered by a judgment in the same court; and an
execution to collect it may be issued, directed to the sheriff
of the county of Kings, as upon a judgment. The commissioner has, in relation to the execution, and the satisfaction
of the line, all the powers of the attorney for a party recovering such a judgment, in relation to the judgment, and the
execution issued thereupon.

§ 1157. The lien, created by such a docket, must be discharged by the county clerk, on filing with him the commissioner’s certificate of payment.

§ 1158. If the commissioner of jurors, or either of his
assistants, or a clerk or other person, employed by him, corruptly and without sufficient cause, omits the name of a
person, duly drawn, from a panel of trial jurors, or the ballot, containing the name of such a person, from either of
the boxes prescribed in this article; or, directly or indirectly,
receives a fee, reward, compensation, or advantage, in consideration of, or as an inducement to such an omission; he
is guilty of a felony, and shall, on conviction, be punished
by imprisonment in a State prison, for a term not less
than two, nor more than five years.


§ 1159. A willful omission, by the commissioner, of a
duty required of him by this article, other than that speci- 
fied in the last section, is a misdemeanor. ‘

§ 1160. A person, to whom application is made, withinj
the county of Kings, by an assessor, or by the commissioner
of jurors, or either of his assistants, for information, as to a_=
fact, upon which the liability of himself, or any other per- 
son, to serve as a trial juror, depends, and who refuses to5

give information relating thereto, which he can give, or
knowingly gives false information relating thereto; or a
person who knowingly makes to an assessor, or to the commissioner of jurors, or a person acting by his authority, a
false representation as to the identity, residence, or any
other matter, relating to a juror, duly drawn, and placed on
a panel to be notified ; or who knowingly retains, conceals.
suppresses, or willfully destroys, a notice to attend, left at the
residence or place of business of another, who has been
drawn at trial juror, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

§ 1161. A physician, who knowingly gives a false certificate, or makes a false representation, for the purpose of
enabling or assisting a person, to be discharged, excused, or
exempted from service, as a trial juror in the county of
Kings, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

§ 1162. The commissioner of jurors must make a yearly
report to the board of supervisors, of all proceedings had
before him, or by him, in the discharge of his duties; and
he must pay over to the county treasurer, at least once in

each three months, all money in his hands, which he has
received as commissioner.

TITLE V.
Trial by 

ARTICLE 1. Formation of the jury.
2. The verdict.

ARTICLE FIRST.

Fomuvrron on THE JURY.

1163. Clerk to prepare ballots of jurors for trial.

1164. Clerk to draw ballots.

1165. Mode of drawing ballots.

1166. Persons drawn, etc., to form the jury.

1167. Ballots drawn, when to be deposited in a second box.
1168. Id. ; when to be returned to the first box.

1169. Ballots of absentees, etc., to be returned to first box.

Sac. 1170. New jury may be drawn while first is empaneled.

1171. When talesmen to be procured, or jurors drawn from third box.
1172. VVhen talesmen to be procured.

1173. If sheriff is a party, court may appoint a person to act for him.
1174. Duty of sheriff and of talesmen.

1175. Jury competent, although containing none of original panel.
1176. Two peremptory challenges in a civil action.

1177. N o challenge allowed because oliicer drawing is a party, etc.
1178. No challenge allowed because oEcer notifying is a party, etc.
1179. Challenges in penal actions. u A

1180. Challenges how tried. Exceptions to and review of the determination

of the court, in reference thereto.

§ 1163. At the opening of a term of a court of record at
which issues of fact are to be tried by jury, the clerk must
cause ballots, uniform, as nearly as may be, in appearance,
to be prepared, by writing the name of each person, returned
to the term as a trial juror, with his proper additions, on a
separate piece of paper. He must roll up or fold each
ballot, in the same manner, as nearly as may be, so as to
resemble the others, and so that the name is not visible.
The ballots must be deposited in a sufficient box, from

which they must be drawn, as prescribed in this article.

§ 1164. When an issue of fact, to be tried by a jury,
is brought to trial, the clerk, under the direction of the
court, must openly draw, out of the box, as many of the
ballots, one after another, as are sufficient to form a jury.

§ 1165. Before the first ballot is drawn, the box must de
closed and well shaken, so as thoroughly to mix the ballots;
and the clerk must draw each ballot, without seeing the
name written on any of them, through an aperture, made in
the lid of the box, large enough only to admit his hand

conveniently.

§ 1166. The first twelve persons who appear, as their
names are drawn and called, and are approved as indifferent

between the parties, and not discharged or excused, must ,

be sworn; and constitute the jury to try the issue.

§ 1167. The ballots, containing the names of the jurors
so sworn, must be then deposited in another box, and there
kept, apart from the other ballots, until that my is discharged.

§ 1168. After that  is discharged, the ballots containing their names must be again rolled up or folded, as
prescribed in section 1163 of this act, and returned to the
box, from which they Were firsttaken; and the same course
must be pursued, as often as an issue is brought to trial by

a jury.

§ 1169. The ballot, containing the name of a juror, who
is absent, when his name is drawn or called, or is set aside,
or excused from serving on that trial, must be again rolled
up or folded, in the same manner as before, and returned
to the box, containing the undrawn ballots, as soon as the
jury is sworn.

§ 1170. If an issue is brought to trial by a jury, While
a jury is empaneled in another cause, at the same term,

and not then discharged, the court may order a jury, for

the trial of that issue, to be drawn, out of the box containing the ballots then undrawn; but, in any other case, the
ballots,containing the names of all the trial jurors, returned
at, and attending the term, must be placed together in the
same box, before a jury is drawn therefrom.

§ 1171. If a suiiicient number of jurors, duly drawn and
notified, do not attend, or cannot be obtained, to form a trial
jury, the court may, in any county except Westchester,
direct the sheriff to require the attendance of such a number
of talesmen, from the bystanders, or from the county at
large, qualified to serve as trial jurors, as it deems
sufficient for the purpose. In VVestchester county, the court
must, and in any other county, except New-York and Kings,

it may, in its discretion, instead of directing the sheriff to
require talesmen to attend, direct him to draw a sumcient
number of ballots from the third box, kept by the county
clerk, as prescribed in title third of this chapter, and‘ to
notify the persons thus drawn, to attend. If, for any
reason, a sumcient number of jurors to try the issue is
not obtained, from the persons notified, under an order
made as prescribed in this section, the court may make
another order, or successive orders, until a suiiicient number ‘is obtained; and in making each order, the court may
exercise the same discretion, as in making the first order.

§ 1172. In any county, except New-York, Kings, or
Westchester, the court may also direct the sheriff to require
the attendance of such a number of qualified talesmen, for
the trial of an issue of fact, as it deems sufficient, where,
by reason of one or more juries being empaneled, or for
any other reason, no ballot remains undrawn; or where,
in consequence of jurors being set aside, a juror cannot be
obtained, for the trial of that issue, from the list of those

returned.

§ 1173. If, in a case specified in the last two sections, the
sheriff is a party to the issue, the court must appoint a disinterested person, to act in place of” the sheriff. For that
purpose, the person so appointed possesses all the powers,

and is subject to all the duties and liabilities of the sheriff,
with respect to the matters specified in those sections.

§ 1174. The sheriff, or person appointed by the court,
must notify the requisite number of persons to attend, and
make return thereof, as prescribed in section 1048 of this
act; except that each person must be required to attend
forthwith. Each person so notified must attend forthwith,
and, unless excused by the court or set aside, must serve as
a juror upon the trial. For a neglect or refusal so to do,
he may be fined, in the same manner as a trial juror, reguilarly drawn and notified, as prescribed in this chapter; and
he is subject to the same exceptions and challenges, as any
other trial juror.

§ 1175. It is not a valid objection to a jury, procured as
prescribed in the last four sections, that it contains none of
the jurors originally returned to the term.

§ 1176. Upon the trial of an issue of fact, joined in a
1 civil action, in a court of record, or not of record, each party
may peremptorily challenge not more than two of the persons, drawn as jurors for the trial.

§ 1177. It is not a good cause of challenge, to the panel
or array of trial jurors, in an action in a court of record,
that the officer who drew them is a party to, or interested
.in the action, or counsel or attorney for, or related to, a.

party.

§ 1178. It is not a good cause "of challenge to the panel
or array of trial jurors, in an action in a court of record,
that they Were notified to attend by an officer, who is a
. party to, or interested in, the action, or related to a party;
unless it is alleged in the challenge, and is established, that
one or more of the jurors drawn were not notified, and that
the omission Was intentional.

§ 1179. In a penal action, in a court of record, or not of

record, to recover a sum of money, it is not a good cause
of challenge to a trial juror, or to an officer who notified

the trial jurors, that the juror or the officer is liable to pay
taxes, in a city, town, or county, which may be benefited

by the recovery.

§ 1180. A challenge of a juror, or a challenge to the
panel or array of jurors, must be tried and determined by

the court only. Either party may except to the determination, and it may be reviewed, upon a question of fact, or a
question of law, or both, as where an issue of fact presented
by the pleadings is tried by the court; except that where
one or more exceptions are taken, to the rulings of the court,
made after the jury is empaneled, an exception to the
determination of a challenge must be heard at the same
time; and the case must contain the matters necessary to
present it, upon the facts, or the law, or both.

ARTICLE SECOND.

Tm: VERDICT.

81:0. 1181. Discharge of jury failing to agree.
1182. Plaintiff cannot submit. to nonsuit after jury retires.

1183. In action to recover money, jury to assess damages.

1184. How double, treble, or increased damages, found and awarded.

1185. When verdict to be taken, subject to the opinion of the court.

1186. General and special verdict defined. ,

1187. General or special verdict, when rendered; special finding with general verdict.
1188. Special finding controls general verdict.
1189. Entry of verdict; subsequent proceedings.

§ 1181. Where a jury is empaneled to try an issue, to
make an inquiry, or to assess damages, in an action in a
court of record, or not of record, or in a special proceeding
before an officer, if the jurors cannot agree, after being kept
together, for such a time as is deemed reasonable, by the court
before which, or the officer before whom, they were empaneled, the court or officer may discharge them, and issue a
precept for a new jury, or order another jury to be drawn, as
the case requires; and the same proceedings must be had
before the new jury, as if it was the jury first empaneled.

§ 1182. It is not necessary, in an action in a court of
record, to call the plaintifff, when the jurors are about to
deliver their verdict; and the plaintifff, in such an action,
cannot submit to a nonsuit, after the cause has been committed to the jury, to consider of the verdict.

§ 1183. In an action to recover a sum of money only,

' if a verdict is found, either in favor of the plaintifff, or in

favor of a defendant, Who has set up a counterclaim for a
sum of money, the  must assess the amount of damages.
The jury may also, under the direction of the court, assess
the amount of the damages, Where the court directs judgment for the plaintifff, on the pleadings.

§ 1184. Where double, treble, or other increased damages, are given by statute, single damages only are to be
found by the jury; except in a case Where the statute prescribes a different rule. The sum so found must be increased
by the court, and judgment rendered accordingly.

§ 1185. Where, upon the trial of an issue by a jury, the

: case presents only questions of law, the judge may direct

the jury to render a verdict, subject to the opinion of the
court.

§ 1186. A general verdict is one, by Which the jury pronounces, generally, upon all or any of the issues, in favor
either of the plaintifff, or of the defendant. A special verdict is one, by which the jury finds the facts only, leaving
the court to determine, which party is entitled to judgment
thereupon.

§ 1187. In an action to recover a sum of money only, or
real property, or a chattel, the  may render a general

; or a special verdict, in its discretion. In any other action,

except Where one or more specific questions of fact, stated
under the direction of the court, are tried by a jury, the
court may direct the jury to find a special verdict, upon all
or any of the issues. Where the jury finds a general ' verdict, the court may instruct it to find also specially, upon
one or more questions of fact, stated in Writing. The special verdict or special finding must be in Writing; it must
be filed with the clerk, and entered in the minutes.

§ 1188. Where a special finding is inconsistent with
a general verdict, the former controls the latter, and the

court must render judgment accordingly.

§ 1189. When the jury renders a verdict, or finds upon
one or more specific questions of fact, stated under the

direction of the court, the clerk must make an entry in his
minutes, specifying the time and place of the trial; the
names of the jurors and Witnesses; the verdict, or the
questions and findings thereupon, as the case requires; and
the direction, if any, which the court gives, with respect to
the subsequent proceedings. Upon the application of the
party in Whose favor a general verdict is rendered, the
clerk must enter judgment, in conformity to the verdict,
unless a different direction is given by the court.

TITLE VI.

Miscellaneous provisions, inchoding those relating to embracery, and other acts of misconduct.

S30. 1190. Trials by jury to be as herein provided ; juries of part aliens abolished.

1191. Venire not necessary.

1192. Jurors not to be questioned for their verdict.

1193. Penalty where juror takes gift, etc.

1194. Embracery; penalty therefore.

1195. Penalty for j uror’s non-attendance in special proceeding.

1196. Sheriff, etc., to keep jury in special proceeding; penalty.

1197. Notice of imposition of fine. .

1198. Special return of delinquency and dne to county court.

1199. Collection or remission of fine.

§ 1190. A trial by a jury, of an issue of fact, joined in a
civil action, in a court of record, must be had, as prescribed
in this chapter; except in a case Where it is otherwise specially prescribed by law. An alien is not entitled to a jury,

composed in part of aliens or strangers, in an action or
special proceeding, civil or criminal.

§ 1191. A venire to procure jurors cannot be issued in 2:.
civil action, brought in a court of record, except as specially prescribed by law.

§ 1192. A juror shall not be questioned, and is not subject to an action, or other liability, civil or criminal, for a
verdict rendered by him, in an action in a court of record,
or not of record, or in a special proceeding before an officer,
except by indictment, for corrupt conduct, in a case prescribed by law.

§ 1193. A person, drawn or notified to attend, as a trial
juror, in an action in a court of record, or not of record, or
in a special proceeding before an officer, who takes any
thing to render his verdict, or receives, from a party to the
action or special proceeding, a gift or gratuity, forfeits ten
times the sum, or ten times the value of that, Which he took
or received, to the party to the action or special proceeding,
aggrieved thereby; and is also liable to that party, for his
damages sustained thereby; besides being subject to the
punishment, prescribed by law.

§ 1194. An embraceor, who procures a person, drawn or
notified to attend, as a trial juror, to take gain or profit, contrary to the last section, forfeits ten times the sum, or ten times

the value of that, which Was so taken, to the party aggrieved

thereby; and is also liable to that party for his damages sustained thereby; besides being subject to the punishment,
prescribed by law.

§ 1195. A person, who has been lawfully and personally
notified to attend, as a trial juror, to inquire into a matter

or thing, or to hear and try a controversy, in a special proceeding, pending before a judge, justice of the peace, commissioner, or other officer, and who willfully neglects to

attend, as required by the notice, may be fined by the officer, in a sum, not exceeding twenty-five dollars. But this section does not extend to a case, Where special provision
is made by law, for punishing the default of a trial juror.

§ 1196. A sheriff, constable, or other officer, who notified
jurors to attend, in a case specified in the last section, must,
when directed by the officer, before Whom the special proceeding is pending, attend, and take charge of the jury.
For a willful neglect to obey such a direction, or for any
misconduct, While attending the jury, by which a right or
remedy of a party to the special proceeding may be impaired
or prejudiced, he must be fined,-by that officer, in a sum
not exceeding twenty-five dollars.

§ 1197. Where a fine is imposed, in a case specified in
the last two sections, Written notice thereof must be served
upon the person fined, to the end that he may apply to the
officer imposing it, for the remission of the Whole or a part
thereof, upon proof that he had a reasonable excuse for
his neglect or misconduct, or that other good cause exists
for the remission.

§ 1198. If, Within thirty days after the service of the
notice, the line has not been remitted by the officer imposing it, he must make a special return of the delinquency or
misconduct, for which the fine was imposed, and of the
amount of the fine, accompanied with proof, by affidavit,
of service of the notice specified in the last section, to the
next term of the county court of the county, in Which the
delinquent resides.

§ 1199. The county clerk must deliver to the district-attorney, a copy of the return and of the affidavit, at the
time when he delivers to him copies of the minutes of hnes,
imposed by the county court. The fine must be collected,
or it may be remitted or reduced, in the same manner as

a fine imposed by the county court, upon a defaulting trial

juror. _

CHAPTER XI.
JUDGMENTS.

TITLE I. —JtmeuaN'r IN AN Aonon.
TITLE II. ——JUDGimN'rs TAKEN WITHOUT PROCESS.

TITLE IH. — VAoArrNe on snrrrme Asmn A JUDGMENT, non
IRREGULARITY on nnnon IN mar.

TITLE I.
Judgment in an action.

ARTICLE 1. General provisions.
2. Mode of taking, entering, and enforcing a judgment.
8. Docketing a judgment; edect thereof, as a lien upon real property;
suspending and discharging the lien ; satisfaction and assignment

of a judgment.

ARTICLE FIRST.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

S30. 1200. Definition of dual judgment.

1201. Definition of interlocutory judgment.

1202. When judgment may be entered.

1203. Judgment to be entered at a term held by one judge.
1204. Judgment may be for or against any of the parties.
1205. When a several judgment may be taken.

1206. Judgment for or against a married woman.

1207. When judgment for plaintiff not to exceed judgment demanded.
1208. Rate of damages.

1209. Effect of judgment dismissing the complaint.
1210. Judgment against a dead person.
1211. Judgment to bear interest.

§ 1200. A judgment is final, Where it is the final determination of . the rights of the parties to the action.

§ 1201. A judgment is interlocutory, Where it is a deter:mination of the action, or of an issue presented by the

pleadings; but either leaves to be determined, by the final
judgment, the extent of the recovery, or other relief, to

which the successful party is entitled; or reserves a question, which must be determined, before final judgment can
be awarded.

§ 1202. Judgment may be entered in term or vacation. 
§ 1203. Judgment must be entered, in the first instance, .
pursuant to the direction of the court, at a term held by}
one judge; except where special provision is otherwise:
made by law. ‘

§ 1204. Judgment may be given for or against one or.
more plaintiEs, and for or against one or more defendants. ‘
It may determine the ultimate rights of the parties on the:
same side, as between themselves ; and it may grant, to a
defendant, any affirmative relief, to which he is entitled.

§ 1205. Where the action is against two or more defendants, and a several judgment is proper, the court may, in
its discretion, render judgment, or require the plaintifff to
take judgment, against one or more of the defendants; and
direct that the action be severed, and proceed against the
others, as the only defendants therein.

§ 1206. Judgment for or against a married woman, may
be rendered and enforced, in a court of record, or not of

record, as if she was single.

§ 1207. Where there is no answer, the judgment shall
not be more favorable to the plaintifff, than that demanded
in the complaint. Where there is an answer, the court
may permit the plaintifff to take any judgment, consistent‘
with the case made by the complaint, and embraced within
the issue.

§ 1208. Where either party is entitled to recover damages, he may recover any rate of damages, which he might
have heretofore recovered, for the same cause of action.

§ 1209. A iinal judgment, dismissing the complaint,
either before or after a trial, rendered in an action hereafter
commenced, does not prevent a new action for the same

cause of action, unless it expressly declares that it is rendered upon the merits.

§ 1210. Where a judgment for a sum of money, or directing the payment of money, is entered against a party, after
his death, in a case where it may be so taken, by special provision of law, a memorandum of the party’s death must be

entered, With the judgment, in the judgment-book, indorsed
on the judgment-roll, and noted on the margin of the docket
of the judgment. Such a judgment does not become a lien

upon the real property, or chattels real, of the decedent;

but it establishes a debt, to be paid in the course of administration.

§ 1211. A judgment for a sum of money, rendered in a
court of record, or not of record, or a judgment rendered in
a court of record, directing the payment of money, bears
interest from the time when it is entered. But Where a
judgment directs that money paid out shall be refunded or
repaid, the direction includes interest from the time when
the money was paid, unless the contrary is expressed.

ARTICLE SECOND.

Mom; or TAKING, ENTERING, AND ENFORCING A JUDGMIENT.

81:0. 1212. Judgment by default, in certain actions on contract; how taken.
1213. Amount of judgment in such cases; how determined.

1214. Application to court for judgment by default; when necessary.
1215. Proceedings on such an application.

1216. Application for judgment, in case of service by publication.
1217. Attachment and undertaking for restitution, required in certain actions.

1218. When judgment cannot be taken against infant.
1219. When a defendant in default is entitled to notice.
1220. When action may be severed, if issues of law and issues of fact presented.
1221. Judgment how taken, after trial of issues of law and issues of fact,
in the same action.

1222. Id.; after trial of issue of law only.

1223. Proceedings upon application under the last two sections.

1224. Id.; upon interlocutory judgment, afiirmed on appeal to the general

term.

1225. J udgment. after trial by jury of specific questions of fact.

1226. Id.; after reference to determine specific questions of fact.

1227. Id.; upon motion for new trial, heard at general term.

1228. Id.; upon trial by court or referee of the whole issue of fact.

1229. In matrimonial causes, judgment can be rendered only by the court.
1280. Final judgment upon decision or report awarding interlocutory judgment, etc. ‘

1231. Id.; how final judgment entered and settled in certain cases.

1232. Interlocutory reference or inquisition; how reviewed.

1233. Motion for judgment upon a special verdict, etc.

1234. Id. ; upon verdict subject to opinion of court.

1235. Interest on verdict, etc., to be included in recovery.

1236. Clerk to keep judgment-book ; judgment to be entered therein.

1237. J udgment-roll to be filed ; of what it consists.

1238. Id. ; by whom prepared.

1289. Time of filing judgment-roll to be noted.

1240. When a judgment may be enforced by execution.

1241. When a judgment may be enforced by punishment for disobeying it.
1242. Real property; how sold. Effect of conveyance.

1243. Security upon sale by referee.
1244. Conveyance to state name of party.

§ 1212. In an action specified in section 420 of this act,

Where the summons was personally served Within the State, {

and the defendant has made default in appearing or pleading, the plaintifff may take judgment as follows:

1. If the defendant has made default in appearing, and
a copy of the complaint, or a notice, to the effect, that upon
default, judgment will be taken for a specified sum of money,
was served with the summons, the plaintifff must file proof
of the service of the summons, and of the copy of the
complaint, or notice; and proof, by affidavit, that the
defendant has not appeared. VVhereupon the clerk must
enter final judgment in his favor.

2. If the defendant has seasonably appeared, but has
made default in answering or demurring, the plaintifff must
file proof, either of appearance, or of the service of the summons; and also proof, by affidavit, of the default. Whereupon the clerk must enter final judgment in his favor.
But this subdivision does not prevent the plaintifff from
taking final judgment, as prescribed in the first subdivision,
where a copy of the complaint, or a notice, was served, as
prescribed in that subdivision.

3. If the defendant has made default in appearing, and
the clerk cannot enter final judgment in his favor, as prescribed in subdivision first of this section, by reason of the
omission of the plaintifff to serve, with the summons, either

of the papers therein specified, the plaintifff must apply to
the court for judgment, as prescribed in the next section
but one.

§ 1213. Where final judgment may be entered by the
clerk, as prescribed in the last section, the amount thereof
must be determined as follows :

1. If the complaint is verified, the judgment must be
entered for the sum, for which the complaint demands
judgment; or, at the plaintifffs option, for a smaller sum;
and if a computation of interest is necessary, it may be
made by the clerk.

2. If the complaint is not verified, the clerk must assess
the amount due to the plaintifff, by computing the sum
due upon an instrument for the payment of money only,
the non-payment of which constitutes a cause of action,
stated in the complaint; and by ascertaining, by the examination of the plaintifff, upon oath, or by other competent
proof, the amount due to him for any other cause of action,
stated in the complaint. If an instrument, specified in this subdivision, has been lost, so that it cannot be produced
to the clerk, he must take proof of its loss, and of its contents. Either party may require the clerk to reduce to
Writing and file the assessment, and the oral proof, if any,
taken thereupon.

§ 1214. Where the summons Was personally served upon
the defendant, Within the State, and he has made default

in appearing, or where the defendant has appeared, but i
has made default in pleading; and the case is not one, where i
the clerk can enter final judgment, as prescribed in the last ‘

two sections, the plaintifff must apply to the court for judgment. Upon the application he must file, if the default
was in appearing, proof of service of the summons; or, if
the default was in pleading, proof of appearance, and of
service of a copy of the complaint upon the defendant’s
attorney; and, in either case, proof, by affidavit, of the default which entitles him to judgment.

§ 1215. The court must thereupon render the judgment,
to which the plaintifff is entitled. It may make a computation or assessment, or take an account, or proof of a fact,
for the purpose of enabling it to render the judgment, or
to carry it into effect; or it may, in its discretion, direct a
reference, or a writ of inquiry, for either purpose; except
that where the action is brought to recover damages for a
personal injury, or an injury to property, the damages must
be ascertained by means of a writ of inquiry. Where a
reference or a writ of inquiry is directed, the court may
direct, that the report or inquisition be returned to the
court, for its future action; or it may, in its discretion,
except where special provision is otherwise made by law,
omit that direction; in which case, final judgment may be
entered, in accordance with the report of the referee, or for
the damages ascertained by the inquisition, without any
further application.

§ 1216. Where the summons was served upon the defendant, without the State, or otherwise than personally, pursuant to an order, obtained for that purpose, as prescribed in chapter fifth of this act, if the defendant does not appear,
within twenty days after the service is complete, the plaintifff may apply to the court, for the judgment demanded in
the complaint. Upon such an application, the court must
require proof of the cause of action, set forth in the complaint, to be made, either before the court, or before a referee, appointed for that purpose. If the defendant is a nonresident, and the complaint demands judgment for a sum
of money, as damages for the breach of a contract, with or
Without other relief; or a judgment creating or enforcing a.
lien upon property, for a sum of money, or satisfying, or
enforcing, in any other manner, a demand for a sum of
money; the court must require the plaintifff, or his agent or
attorney, to be examined on oath, respecting any payments
to the plaintifff, or to any one for his use, on account of his
demand. Upon hearing the proof, or upon the report of
the referee, the court must render the judgment, to which
the plaintifff is entitled. But before rendering judgment,
the court may, in any case, in its "discretion, require the
plaintifff to file an undertaking, as prescribed in subdivision
third of the next section; or a like undertaking, With the
additional provision, that, in the contingency therein specified, the plaintifff will abide the direction of the court,
touching the restitution of any property, of Which the judgment directs the transfer or delivery.

§ 1217. A judgment shall not be rendered for a sum of
money only, upon an application made pursuant to the last section, except in an action specified in section 635 of this
act. \Vhere the defendant is a non-resident, or a foreign
corporation, the plaintifff, upon the application for judgment in such an action, must produce and file the following papers:

1. Proof, by affidavit. that a Warrant of attachment,
granted in the action, has been levied upon property of the
defendant.

2. A description of the property, so attached, verified by
affidavit ; With a statement of the value thereof, according
to the inventory.

3. An undertaking, executed by at least two sureties, in
a sum, fixed by the court, to the effect, that the plaintifff will
abide the direction of the court, touching the restitution of
any money, collected under or by virtue of the judgment,
if the defendant, or his representative, applies and is admitted to defend the action, and succeeds in the defense ; or
if the Warrant of attachment is vacated for irregularity.

§ 1218. A judgment shall not be taken against an infant
defendant, until twenty days have expired, since the
appointment of a guardian ad litem for him.

§ 1219. A defendant, against Whom judgment is taken,
pursuant to the foregoing sections of this article, is entitled
to notice, as follows :

1. If he has appeared generally, but has made default
in pleading, he is entitled to at least five days’ notice of
the time and place of an assessment by the clerk, or of the
execution of a reference, or of a Writ of inquiry; and to
at least eight days’ notice of the time and place of an application to the court, for judgment.

2. In a case Where an application for judgment must be
made to the court, the defendant may serve upon the plaintifff’s attorney, at any time before the application for judgment, a Written demand of notice of the execution of any reference, or writ of inquiry, which may be granted upon the
application. Such a demand is not an appearance in the
action. It must be subscribed by the defendant, in person,
or by an attorney or agent, who must add to his signature
his office address, With the particulars, prescribed in section
417 of this act, concerning the office address of the plaintifff’s attorney. Thereupon at least five days’ notice of the
time and place of the execution of the reference, or Writ of
inquiry, must be given to the defendant, by service thereof
upon him, or upon his attorney or agent, Whose name is subscribed to the demand, as prescribed in this act, for service
of a paper upon an attorney in an action.

§ 1220. Where an issue of law and an issue of fact
arise, With respect to different causes of action, set forth in
the complaint, and final judgment can be taken, with respect
to one or more of the causes of action, without prejudice to
either party in maintaining the action, or a defense or

counterclaim, with respect to the other causes of action,
or in the recovery of fmal judgment upon the whole issue,
the court may, in its discretion, and at any stage of the
action, direct that the action be divided into two or more
actions, as the case requires.

§ 1221. Where one or more issues of law, and one or
more issues of fact, arise in the same action, and all the
issues have been tried, final judgment upon the whole issue
must be taken, upon an application therefore, founded upon
the interlocutory judgment, rendered upon the trial of the
issues of law, and the verdict, report, or decision, upon the
issues of fact, as follows:

1. Where an application must be made to the court, for
judgment upon the issue last tried, the application must
be for judgment, upon the whole issue; and judgment must
be rendered accordingly. _

2. Where the action is triable by a jury, and the issue
last tried is tried at a term of the court, the application for
judgment, upon the whole issue, may be entertained, in the
discretion of the court, at that term, and with or without
notice ; if ' not so entertained, it must be heard as a motion.

3. Where the issue last tried is tried before a referee, his
report must award the proper judgment upon the whole
Issue.

§ 1222. Where an interlocutory judgment has been rendered, upon the trial of an issue of law, and no issue of fact
remains to be tried, the party entitled to final judgment,
may apply to the court therefore, as upon a motion.

§ 1223. Upon an application, by either party, to the court,
for final judgment, after an interlocutory judgment upon
an issue of law, as prescribed in the last two sections, the
court has the powers specified in section 1215 of this act,
upon an application for judgment by the plaintifff. Where
final judgment may be awarded upon a referee’s report, as
prescribed in the last section ‘but one, the referee may

make a computation, or an assessment, or take an account,
or proof of a fact, for the purpose of enabling him to award
the proper judgment, or enabling the court to carry it into
effect; and he may ascertain and fix the damages, as a jury
may do, upon the execution of a Writ of inquiry.

§ 1224. Where an interlocutory judgment is Wholly or
partly affirmed, upon an appeal to the general term, and no
issue of fact remains to be tried, the general term mu st, if
the interlocutory judgment was rendered upon the trial of
a demurrer, and, in any other case, it may, in its discretion,
render final judgment; unless it permits the appellant to
amend, or plead over. For the purpose of thus rendering
final judgment, the general term may direct any additional
papers in the action, to be brought before it; and it has the
power and authority of the court, upon an application for
judgment, Where the defendant has made default in pleading. It may also direct the proceedings, to determine the
final judgment, to be taken before a judge of the court, and
the final judgment to be entered, when so determined, as
of the term where the interlocutory judgment was affirmed.
In that case, the judge has the powers, conferred by this section on the general term, for the purpose of rendering
final judgment. ‘Where the general term does not render
‘dual judgment, upon such an affirmance, the proceedings to
take final judgment are the same, as if the appeal had not
been taken.

§ 1225. In an action triable by the court, Where one or
more specific questions of fact, arising upon the issues, have
been tried by a jury, judgment may be taken, upon the
application of either party, as follows :

1. If all the issues of fact in the action are determined
by the findings of the jury, or the remaining issues of fact
have been determined by the decision of the court, or the
report of a referee, an application for judgment, upon the
whole issue, may be made as upon a motion.

2. If one or_ more issues of fact remain to be tried, judgment may be rendered upon the whole issue, at the term of
the court where, or by direction of the referee by whom,
they are tried. '

§ 1226. Where a reference has been made, to report upon
one or more specific questions of fact, arising upon the issue,
and the remaining issues have been tried, judgment must
be taken, upon the application of either party, as prescribed
in section 1221 of this act.

§ 1227. Where a motion for a new trial, made in the
first instance at a general term, is denied, judgment may be
taken, as if the motion for a new trial had not been made,
after the expiration of four days from the entry of the order,
and the service, upon the attorney for the adverse party, of
a copy thereof, and notice of the entry; but not before.

§ 1228. Where the whole issue is an issue of fact, which
was tried by a referee, the report stands as the decision of
the court. Except where it is otherwise expressly prescribed
by law, judgment upon such a report, or upon the decision
of the court, upon the trial of the whole” issue of fact without a jury, may be entered by the clerk, as directed therein,
after the expiration of four days from the filing of the
decision or report, and the service, upon the attorney for
the adverse party, of a copy thereof, and notice of the
filing; but not before.

§ 1229. In an action to annul a marriage, or for a divorce
or separation, judgment cannot be taken, of course, upon a
referee’s report, as prescribed in the last section, or where
the reference was made, as prescribed in section 1215 of
this act. Where a reference is made in such an action, the
testimony, and the other proceedings upon the reference,
must be certified to the court, by the referee, with his report;
and judgment must be rendered by the court.

§ 1230. In a case, not provided for in the foregoing sections of this article, where the decision, upon a trial by
the court, without a jury, or the report, upon a trial by a
referee, directs an interlocutory judgment to be entered,
and the party afterwards becomes entitled to a final judgment, an application for the latter may be made, as upon a
motion. And where an interlocutory judgment, or a final
judgment, requires the appointment of a referee, to do any
act thereunder, the referee must be appointed by the court,
upon motion, except as otherwise prescribed in the next section.

§ 1231. In an action triable by the court, an interlocutory judgment, rendered upon a default in appearing or
pleading, or pursuant to the direction contained in a decision or report, may state the substance of the final judgment,
to which the party will be entitled. It may also direct,
that the final judgment be settled by a judge, or a referee.
In that case, final judgment shall not be entered, until a
settlement thereof, subscribed by the judge or referee, is
filed. Where an interlocutory judgment awards costs,
they may be awarded generally, without specifying the
amount thereof. Where the final judgment is directed to
be settled, and the costs have not been taxed, when the
settlement thereof is filed, a blank for the amount of the
costs must be left in the settlement; and the costs must
be taxed, and the blank filled up accordingly, by the clerk,
when the final judgment is entered.

§ 1232. Where a reference, or a writ of inquiry, directed as ,
prescribed in section 1015, or section 1215 of this act, has

been executed, either party may apply for an order, directing a new hearing, or a new writ of inquiry, upon proof, by
affidavit, that error was committed, to his prejudice, upon
the hearing, or in the report, or upon the execution of the
writ, or in the inquisition. In a proper case, the application may be granted, after judgment has been entered. In

that case, the judgment may be set aside, either then or
after the new hearing, or the execution of the new writ, as
justice requires.

§ 1233. A motion for judgment, upon a special verdict-,
may be made by either party; and must, in the first instance,
be heard and decided, at a term held by one judge.

§ 1234. A motion for judgment, upon a verdict subject
to the opinion of the court, may be made by either party;
and must be heard and decided at the general term.

§ 1235. Where iinal judgment is rendered for a sum of
money, awarded by a verdict, report, or decision, interest
upon the sum awarded, from the time when the verdict was
rendered, or the report or decision was made, to the time of
entering judgment, must be computed by the clerk, added
to the sum awarded, and included in the amount of the
judgment.

§ 1236. The clerk must keep, among the records of the
court, a book for the entry of judgments, styled the “ judgment-book.” Each interlocutory or final judgment must
be entered in the judgment-book, and attested by the
signature of the clerk; who must note, in the margin of
the entry, the day and year of entering it. It must specify
clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the
action, or of the issue.

§ 1237. The clerk, upon entering final judgment, must
immediately file the judgment-roll; which must consist, except where special provision is otherwise made by law, of
the following papers: the summons; the pleadings, or copies
thereof; a certified copy of the final judgment, and also of
the interlocutory judgment, if any; and each paper on file,
or a copy thereof, and a copy of each order, which in any

way involves the merits, or necessarily affects the judgment.
If judgment is taken by default, the judgment-roll must also

contain the papers required to be filed, upon so taking j udgment, or upon making application therefore; together with
any report, decision, or writ of inquiry, and return thereto.
If judgment is taken after a trial, the judgment-roll must
contain the verdict, report, or decision ; each offer, if any,
made as prescribed in this act; and each notice of exceptions or case, then on file.

§ 1238. The judgment-roll must be prepared, and furnished to the clerk, by the attorney, for the party, at
whose instance the nnal judgment is entered; except that
the clerk must attach thereto the necessary original papers,
on file. But the clerk may, at his option, make up the
entire judgment-roll.

§ 1239. The clerk must make a minute, upon the back
of each judgment-roll, filed in his office, of the time of
filing it, specifying the year, month, day, hour, and minute.
A proceeding to enforce or collect a final judgment, cannot be taken, until the judgment-roll is filed.

§ 1240. In either of the following cases, a final judgment may be enforced by execution:

1. Where it is for a sum of money, in favor of either
pa.rty; or directs the payment of a sum of money.

2. Where it is in favor of the plaintifff, in an action of
ejectment, or for dower.

3. In an action to recover a chattel, where it awards a
chattel to either party.

§ 1241. In either of the following cases, a judgment may
be enforced, by serving a certified copy thereof, upon the ‘
party against whom it is rendered, or the oiiicer or person,
who is required thereby, or by law, to obey it; and, if he §
refuses or willfully neglects to obey it, by punishing him i
for a contempt of the court:

1. Where the judgment is final, and cannot be enforced
by execution, as prescribed in the last section.

2. Where the judgment is final, and part of it cannot be
enforced by execution, as prescribed in the last section ; in
which case, the part or parts, which cannot be so enforced,
may be enforced as prescribed in this section.

3. Where the judgment is interlocutory, and requires a
party to refrain from doing, or to do, an act not specified in
the next subdivision.

4. Where the judgment requires the payment of money
into court, or to an officer of the court; except Where the
money is due upon a contract, express or implied, or as
damages for non-performance of a contract. In a case speciiied in this subdivision, if the judgment is final, it may be
enforced, as prescribed in this section, either simultaneously
With, or before or after the issuing of an execution thereupon, as the court directs.

§ 1242. Except Where special provision is otherwise
made by law, real property, adjudged to be sold, must be
sold in the county Where it is situated, by the sheriff of
the county, or by a referee, appointed by the court for that
purpose, who must execute a conveyance to the purchaser.
The conveyance is effectual, to pass the right, title, or interest of a party, adjudged to be sold.

§ 1243. Where a referee is appointed by the court, to sell
real property, the court may, and, if a party interested in the
application of the proceeds so requires, it must provide, either
for his giving such security, as the court deems just, for the
proper application of the money received upon the sale : or for
the payment thereof by the purchaser, directly to the person
or persons entitled thereto, or their attorneys; or for depositing the proceeds in a bank or trust company, to be drawn
out only upon the special direction of the court.

§ 1244. A conveyance of property, sold by virtue of an
execution, or sold by a sheriff, referee, or other person, pursuant to a judgment, directing the sale of the right, title, or

interest, of a particular party or parties, must distinctly
state, in the granting clause thereof, whose right, title, or
interest was sold, and is conveyed, without naming, in that
clause, any of the other parties to the action; otherwise, the
purchaser is not bound to accept the conveyance, and the
officer executing it is liable for the damages, which the
purchaser sustains by the omission, whether he accepts or
refuses to accept it.

ARTICLE THIRD.

DOCKETING A Jnnaimnr; EFFECT THEREOF As A LIEN UPON REAL PROPERTY;
susrmmme AND mscrmnome THE LIEN; SATISFACTION AND ASSIGNMENT
OF A J UDGMENT.

1245. Certain clerks to keep docket-books.

1246. Id.; to docket judgments.

1247. Filing transcripts, and docketing judgments thereon.

1248. Penalty for clerk’s neglect.

1249. Dockets to be public.

1250. Judgment not to be a lien until docketed.

1251. Real property bound for ten years by a judgment thus docketed.
1252. Real property may be levied upon after ten years.

1253. Land held under contract not bound by judgment.

1254. Preference of mortgages for purchase money.

1255. Certain time not to be included in the ten years.

1256. Court may order lien of judgment to be suspended upon appeal.
1257. From what time order suspends the lien.

1258. How lien suspended in any other county.

1259. When and how lien restored.

1260. Docket of judgment, how cancelled.

1261. Satisfaction-piece to be given on payment of judgment.

1262. Assignor must acknowledge assignment.

1263. Assignee who is a receiver. etc., may file notice.

1264. Entry in docket, upon return of execution satisfied.

1265. Id.; where execution returned unsatisfied.

1266. Sheriff to give copy of satisfied execution ; clerk to enter satisfaction.
1267. Docket; when to be discharged and cancelled.

1268. Discharge of a judgment against a bankrupt. '

1269. Power of courts respecting docket.

1270. Clerk to file and note assignment of judgment.

1271. Judgments of United States courts may be docketed.

1272. To what judgments and executions this article applies.

§ 1245. Each county clerk, each clerk of a superior city
court, and the clerk of the marine court of the city of NewYork, must keep one or more books, ruled in columns,
convenient for making the entries, prescribed in the next section; in which he must docket, in its regular Order and

according to its priority, each judgment, which he is required
by this article to docket. The expense of pI'0C111'mg 3 new
book, when necessary, iscax county charge 
   
   
§ 1246. Each clerk, specified in the last section, must, when he files a judgment-roll, upon a judgment rendered in a court of which he is clerk, docket the judgment, by entering, int he proper docket-book, the following particulars, under the initial letter of the surname of the
debtor, in its alphabetical order:

1. The name, at length, of the judgment debtor , and also
his residence, title, and trade or profession, if any
are stated in the judgment.

2. The name of the party, in Whose favor the jud
was rendered.

3. The sum, recovered or directed to be paid, in fig

4. The day, hour, and minute, when the judgment-ro
Was nled.

5. The day, hour, and minute, when the judgment was
docketed in his office.

6. The court in which the judgment was rendered, and,
if it Was rendered in the supreme court, the county Where
the judgment-roll is nled.

7. The name of the attorney for the party recovering the
judgment.

If there are two or more judgment debtors, those entries
must be repeated, under the initial letter of the surname of
each.

§ 1247. A clerk,’ with Whom a judgment-roll is filed, upon
a judgment docketed as prescribed in the last section, must
furnish, to any person applying therefore, and paying the fees
allowed by law, one or more transcripts of the docket of the
judgment, attested by his signature. A county clerk, to
Whom such a transcript is presented, must, upon payment of
his fees therefore, immediately file it, and docket the judg
ment, as prescribed in the last section, in the appropriate
docket-book, kept in his office.

§ 1248. A clerk who omits, as soon as practicable, to
docket a judgment required to be docketed, or to furnish
a transcript of a judgment, so docketed in his office, as prescribed in the last two sections, forfeits, to the person
aggrieved, two hundred and fifty dollars, in addition to the
damages sustained by reason of the omission.

§ 1249. A docket-book, kept by a clerk, must be kept
open, during the business hours fixed by law, for search
and examination by any person.

§ 1250. A judgment, required to be docketed, as prescribed in this article, neither affects real property or chat
tels real, nor is entitled to a preference, until the judgmentroll is filed, and the judgment docketed.

§ 1251. Except as otherwise specially prescribed by law,
a judgment, hereafter rendered, which is docketed in a
county clerk’s office, as prescribed in this article, binds,
and is a charge upon, for ten years after filing the judgment-roll, and no longer, the real property and chattels
real, in that county, which the judgment debtor has, at the
time of so docketing it, or which he acquires at any time
afterwards, and within the ten years.

§ 1252. When ten years after filing the judgment-roll
have expired, real property or a chattel real, which the
judgment debtor, or real property which a person, deriving
his right or title thereto, as the heir or devisee of the judgment debtor, then has, in any county, may be levied upon,
by virtue of an execution against property, issued to the
sheriff of that county, upon a judgment hereafter rendered,
by filing, with the clerk of that county, a notice, subscribed
by the sheriff, describing the judgment, the execution, and
the property levied upon; and, if the interest levied upon is
that of an heir or devisee, specifying that fact, and the
name of the heir or devisee. The notice must be recorded

I and indexed by the clerk, as a notice of the pendency of

an action. For that purpose, the judgment debtor, or his
heir, or devisee, named in the notice, is regarded as a party
to an action. The judgment binds, and becomes a charge
upon, the right and title thus levied upon, of the judgment
debtor, or of his heir or devisee, as the case may be, only
from the time of recording and indexing the notice, and
until the execution is set aside, or returned.

§ 1253. The interest of a person, holding a contract for

A the purchase of real property, is not bound by the docketing of a judgment; and cannot be levied upon or sold, by
virtue of an execution, issued upon a judgment.

§ 1254. Where real property is sold and conveyed, and,
at the same time, a mortgage thereupon is given by the
purchaser, to secure the payment of the Whole or a part
of the purchase money, the lieu of the mortgage, upon that
real property, is superior to the lien of a previous judgment against the purchaser.

§ 1255. The time, during which a judgment creditor is
stayed, by an injunction or other order, or by the operation
of an appeal, or by express provision of law, from enforcing
a judgment, is not a part of the ten years, to which the lieu
of a judgment upon real property is limited by this article.
But this section does not extend the time of the lien, as
against a purchaser, creditor, or mortgagee in good faith.

§ 1256. Where an appeal from a judgment has been
perfected, and an undertaking has been given, sufficient to
entitle the appellant to a stay of the execution of the judgment, Without an order for that purpose, the court, in which
the judgment was recovered, may, in its discretion and upon
such terms as justice requires, make an order, upon notice
to the attorney for the respondent, and to the sureties in
the undertaking, exempting from the lien of the judgment,

as against judgment creditors, and purchasers and mortgagees in good faith, the real property or chattels real,
upon which the judgment is a lien, or a portion thereof,
specifically described in the order. If all the property, subject to the lien, is so exempted, the order must direct the
clerk, in Whose office the judgment-roll is filed, to make an
entry, on the docket of the judgment, in each place where
it appears in the docket-book, substantially as follows:
“Lien suspended upon appeal. See order entered”; adding
the proper date. If a portion only is exempted, the order
must direct the clerk to make, in like manner, an entry,
substantially as follows: “Lien partially suspended upon
appeal. See order entered”; adding the proper date. The
clerk must, when he files the motion papers, and enters the
order, make the entry or entries in the docket-book, as
required by the order.

§ 1257. Where an order is made, as prescribed in the last section, by the supreme court or by a county court, it operates as a suspension of the lien upon property situated in
the county, Where the judgmentroll is filed, from the time
when the order is entered, and the proper entry made in
the docket-book. If the property exempted is situated in
another county, or if the order was made by a court, other
than the supreme court or a county court, the order operates
as a suspension, from the lien, when the proper entry is
made in the docket-book, kept by the clerk of that county,
as prescribed in the next section.

§ 1258. The clerk, with Whom the order is entered, must,
upon payment of his fees therefore, furnish to the party who
obtained the order, one or more transcripts, attested by his
signature, of the docket of the judgment, including the
entry made upon the docket. A county clerk, in Whose
office the judgment is docketed, must, upon payment of his
fees therefore, immediately file such a transcript; and make
an entry upon the docket of the judgment, in each place
Where it appears in his docket-book, substantially as follows: “ Lien suspended”, or, “ Lien partially suspended ”,
according to the entry upon the original docket, and also,
“ See transcript filed ”; adding the proper date.

§ 1259. At any time after a judgment, which has ceased
to be a lien, as prescribed in the last three sections, is affirmed,
or the appeal therefrom is dismissed, the lien thereof may
be restored, as follows:

1. The clerk, in whose office the judgment of afiirmance,
or the order dismissing the appeal, is entered, must, upon
the request of the judgment creditor, docket the judgment
anew, as it was originally docketed, but in the order of
priority of the new docket; and he must write, upon the
new docket, the words, “Lien restored by redocket”; adding the date of redocketing.

2. A transcript of the new docket must be furnished to
a county clerk, in whose office an entry of the suspension
of the lien has been made, as prescribed in the last two sections; and thereupon the judgment must be docketed by
him anew, in the order of the priority of the new docket.
The clerk who so redockets the judgment, must make an
entry upon the new docket, substantially as follows: “Lien
restoi ed by redocket. See transcript filed ”; adding the date
of redocketing in his county.

The lien of the judgment is thereupon restored, for the
unexpired period thereof, as if the order had not been
made; but with like effect only, as against judgment
creditors, purchasers, and mortgagees in good faith, as if
the judgment had then been first docketed.

§ 1260. The docket of a judgment must be cancelled and
discharged by the clerk, in whose office the judgmentroll is filed, upon filing with hima satisfaction-piece, describ~
ing the judgment, and executed as follows:

1. Except as otherwise prescribed in the next subdivision,
the satisfaction-piece must be executed by the party, in
whose favor the judgment was rendered, or his executor or
administrator; or, if it is made within two years after the

filing of the judgment-roll, by the attorney of record of
the party. But where the authority of the attorney has been
revoked, a satisfaction by him is not conclusive, against the
person entitled to enforce the judgment, in respect to a
person, who had actual notice of the revocation, before a
payment on the judgment was made, or a purchase of property bound thereby was effected.

2. If an assignment of the judgment, executed by the
party in whose favor it was rendered, or his executor or
administrator, has been filed in the clerk’s office, the satisfaction-piece must be executed by the person, who appears,
from the assignment, or from the last of the subsequent
assignments, if any, so filed, showing a continuous chain of
title, to be the owner of the judgment; or by his executor
or administrator.

3. If the satisfaction-piece is executed by an attorney in
fact, in behalf of a person authorized to execute it, other
than the attorney of record, an instrument, containing a
power to acknowledge the satisfaction, must be filed with
the satisfaction-piece, unless it has been recorded, in the
proper book for recording deeds, in that or another county;
in which case, the satisfaction-piece must refer to the record,
and the clerk may, for his own indemnity, require evidence
of a record remaining in another office.

The execution of each satisfaction-piece or power of attorney must be acknowledged, before the clerk, or his
deputy, and certified by him thereupon; or it must be acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like manner as a
deed to be recorded in the county where it is filed.

§ 1261. The person, entitled to enforce a judgment, must
execute, and acknowledge before the proper officer, a satisfaction-piece thereof, at the request of the judgment debtor,
or of a person interested in property bound by the judgment, upon presentation of a satisfaction-piece, and payment of the sum due upon the judgment, and the fees
allowed by law for taking the acknowledgment of a deed.

§ 1262. A person, who has heretofore executed, or hereafter executes, a Written assignment of a judgment, owned
by him, without acknowledging the execution thereof, before an officer authorized to take the acknowledgment of a
deed, must so acknowledge it, at the request of his assignee,
or of a subsequent assignee thereof, or of the judgment
debtor, upon presentation of the assignment, and payment
of the oi‘1icer’s fees.

§ 1263. A resident of the State, or a person having an
office within the State, for the regular transaction of business, in person, who becomes the owner of a judgment, by
virtue of a general assignment for the benefit of creditors,
or of an appointment as a receiver, or trustee or assignee
of an insolvent debtor or bankrupt, may file with the clerk,
in whose office the judgment-roll is filed, a notice of the
assignment, or of his appointment, and of his ownership of
the judgment. The notice must be subscribed by him,
adding to his signature his place of residence, and also, if
he resides without the State, his office address. A notice

so filed has the same force and effect, for the purposes of
this article, as if it was an assignment of the judgment.

§ 1264. VVhere an execution is returned, wholly or partly
satisfied, the clerk must make an entry of the satisfaction,
or partial satisfaction, in the docket of the judgment, upon
which it was issued. Thereupon the judgment is deemed
satisfied, to the extent of the amount returned as collected,
unless the return is vacated by the court.

§ 1265. Where an execution is returned wholly unsatistied, the clerk must immediately make, in the docket of the
judgment, upon which it was issued, an entry of the fact,
stating the time when the execution was returned.

§ 1266. A sheriff, upon being paid the full amount due
upon an execution in his hands, must immediately indorsc
thereupon a return of satisfaction tl1€I'POf. He m11st also

deliver, to the person making the payment, upon the latter’s
request, and payment of the fees allowed by law therefore,
a certified copy of the execution, and of the return of satisfaction thereupon; which may be filed with the clerk of the
same county, who must thereupon cancel and discharge the
docket of the judgment, as if the judgmentroll was filed
in his office, and the execution was returned to him, as satisfied. But this section does not exonerate the sheriff, from
his duty to return the execution, to the clerk with whom

the judgment-roll is ‘dled.

§ 1267. The clerk of a county, with whom a judgment
has been docketed, must cancel and discharge the docket
thereof, upon the filing, with him, of a certificate of the
clerk, with whom the judgment-roll is filed, showing that
the judgment has been reversed, vacated, or satisfied of
record; or the certificate of the clerk of the county, with
whom a copy of an execution, and of a return of satisfaction thereupon, have been filed, as prescribed in the last section, showing that they have been so filed, and the docket
cancelled and discharged accordingly.

§ 1268. At any time after two years have elapsed, since
a bankrupt was discharged from his debts, pursuant to the
acts of congress relating to bankruptcy, he may apply, upon

proof of his discharge, to the court in which a judgment
was rendered against him, for an order, directing the judgment to be cancelled and discharged of record. If it appears
that he has been discharged from the payment of that
judgment, an order must be made accordingly; and thereupon the clerk must cancel and discharge the docket thereof,
as if the proper satisfaction-piece of the judgment was filed.
Notice of the application, accompanied with copies of the
papers upon which it is made, must be given to the judgment creditor, unless his written consent to the granting of
the order, with satisfactory proof of the execution thereof,
and, if he is not the party in whose favor the judgment was
rendered, that he is the owner thereof, is presented to the
court, upon the application.

§ 1269. A court of record has the same power and jurisdiction, concerning the docket of its judgments, kept by a
county clerk, which it has concerning the docket, kept by
its own clerk. It may direct that such a docket be

amended; or that its judgment, there docketed, be docketed nunc pro tunc.

§ 1270. Upon the presentation, to the clerk of a court of
record, of an assignment of a judgment, entered in his office,
executed by a person entitled to satisfy the judgment, as prescribed in section 1260 of this act, and otherwise executed
as prescribed in that section, With respect to a satisfactionpiece, and upon payment of the fees, allowed by law, for
filing a transcript, and docketing a judgment thereupon, the
clerk must forthwith file the assignment in his office, and

_make, upon the docket of the judgment, an entry of the

fact, and of the day of filing: or, if he keeps a separate
book for the "entry of assignments of judgments, an entry,
referring to the page of the book, Where the filing of the
assignment is noted.

§ 1271. A transcript of a judgment, rendered, within the
State, by a court of the United States, duly certified by the
clerk of that court, may be filed With a county clerk; Who
must docket it, as if it had been rendered by the supreme
court of the State.

§ 1272. This article applies only to a judgment, wholly
or partly for a sum of money, or directing the payment of

a sum of money; and to an execution issued upon such
a judgment. ‘

TITLE 11.
Judgments taken without process.

ARTICLE 1. Confession of judgment.
2. Submission of a controversy, upon facts admitted.

ARTICLE FIRST.

CONFESSION or J UDGMBNT.

1273. Judgment may be confessed. Married woman may confess.

1274. Statement; form thereof.

1275. Statement to be filed, and judgment entered.

1276. J udgment-roll ; docketing and enforcing the judgment.
1277. Execution, where the judgment is not all due.

1278. Confession by one of several joint debtors.

§ 1273. A judgment by confession may be entered, Without action,.either for money due or to become due, or to
secure a person against contingent liability in behalf of the
defendant, or both, as prescribed in this article. A married
Woman may confess such a judgment, as if she was single.

§ 1274. A Written statement must be made, and signed
by the defendant, to the following effect:

1. It must state the sum, for which judgment may be
entered, and authorize the entry of judgment therefore.

2. If the judgment to be confessed is for money due or
to become due, it must state concisely the facts, out of Which
the debt arose; and must show, that the sum confessed therefore is justly due, or to become due.

3. If the judgment to be confessed is for the purpose of
securing the plaintifff, against a contingent liability, it must
state concisely the facts, constituting the liability; and must
show, that the sum confessed therefore does not exceed the
amount of the liability.

The statement must be verified by the oath of the defendant, to the effect, that the matters of fact therein set
forth are true.

§ 1275. At any time Within three years after the statement is verified, it may be filed with a county clerk, or
with the clerk of a superior city court, or, Where the sum,
for which judgment is confessed, does not exceed two
thousand dollars, exclusive of interest from the time of

making the statement, with the clerk of the marine court
of the city of New-York. Thereupon the clerk must enter,
in like manner as a judgment is entered in an action, a
judgment for the sum confessed, with costs, Which he must
tax, to the amount of fifteen dollars, besides disbursements
taxable in an action. If the statement is filed with a
county clerk, the judgment must be entered in the supreme
court; if it is filed With the clerk of another court, specified
in this section, the judgment must be entered in the court
of which he is clerk. But a judgment shall not be entered
upon such a statement, after the defendant’s death.

§ 1276. The clerk, immediately after entering the judgment, must attach together and file the statement, as verified, and a certified copy of the judgment, which constitute
the judgment-roll. The judgment may be docketed, and
enforced against property, in the same manner, and with the
same effect, as a judgment in an action, rendered in the same
court; and each provision of law, relating to a judgment in
an action, and the proceedings subsequent thereto, apply to
a judgment thus taken. ‘

§ 1277. Where the debt, for which the judgment is
rendered, is not all due, execution may be issued, upon the
judgment, for the collection of the sum which has become
due. The execution must be in the form prescribed by
law, for an- execution upon a judgment for the full amount
recovered; but the person, whose name is subscribed to it,
must indorse thereupon a direction to the sheriff, to collect
only the sum due, stating the amount thereof, With interest
thereon, and the costs of the judgment. Notwithstanding
the issuing and collection of such an execution, the judgment shall remain, as security for the sum or stuns to
become due, after the execution is issued. When a further sum becomes due, an execution may, in like manner,
be issued for the collection thereof; and successive executions may be issued, as further sums become due.

§ 1278. One or more joint debtors may confess a judgment for a joint debt, due or to become due. Where all
the joint debtors do not unite in the confession, the judgment must be entered and enforced against those only Who
confessed it; and it is not a bar to an action against all the

joint debtors, upon the same demand.

ARTICLE SECOND.

SUBMISSION OF A CONTBOVERSY, UPON FACTS ADIIITPED.

1279. Controversy, how submitted without process.
1280. Papers to be filed; controversy thereupon becomes an action.
1281. Subsequent proceedings regulated.

§ 1279. The parties to a question in difference, which

might be the subject of an action, being of full age, may
agree upon a case, containing a statement of the facts, upon
which the controversy depends; and may present a Written
submission thereof to a court of record, which would have
jurisdiction of an action, brought for the same cause. The
case must be accompanied With the affidavit of one of the
parties, to the effect, that the controversy is real; and that
the submission is made in good faith, for the purpose of
determining the rights of the parties. The submission must
be acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like manner as
a deed, to be recorded in the county Where it is uled.

§ 1280. The case, submission, and affidavit, must be filed
in the office of the clerk of the court, to which the submission is made. If the submission is made to the supreme
court, they must be filed in the office of the county clerk,
if any, specified in the submission; if no county clerk is
so specified, they may be filed in the office of any county
clerk. The filing is a presentation of the submission ; and
thenceforth the controversy becomes an action; and each
provision of law, relating to a proceeding in an action,
applies to the subsequent proceedings therein, except as
otherwise prescribed in the next section.

§ 1281. An order of arrest, an injunction, or a Warrant
of attachment, cannot be granted in such an action: the
costs thereof are always in the discretion of the court, but
costs cannot be taxed, for any proceedings before notice of
trial: the action must be tried by the court, upon the case
alone: and the case, submission, affidavit, and a certified
copy of the judgment, and of any order or paper, necessw
rily affecting the judgment, constitute the judgment-roll.
If the action is in the supreme court, a superior city court,
or the marine court of the city of New-York, it must be
tried, and judgment rendered, at the general term. If the
statement of facts, contained in the case, is not éufiicient to
enable the court to render judgment, an order must be
made dismissing the submission, without costs to either
party; unless the court permits the parties, or, in a proper
case, their representatives, to file an additional statement,
which it may do, in its discretion, without prejudice to the
original statement.

TITLE III.

Vacating or setting aside a judgment, for irregularity or
error in fact.

1282. Motion to set aside judgment for irregularity; when it may be heard.
1283. Motion to set aside judgment for error in fact; when it may be made
by party. .

1284. Id. ; after a party's death.

1285. Id. ; by a person not a party.

1286. Id. ; when several parties are entitled to move.

1287. To whom notice of the motion must be given.

1288. Id. ; when real property recovered by the judgment has been conveyed.
1289. How notice given under this title.

1290. Within what time motion to be made.

1291. Exceptions in cases of disability.

1292. Restitution; when directed.

§ 1282. A motion to set aside a iinal judgment, for irregularity, shall not be heard, after the expiration of one year since
the filing of the judgment-roll; unless notice thereof is given
for a day Within the year, and either the hearing is adjourned,
by one or more orders, until after the expiration of the year;
or the term, for which it is thus noticed, is not held. In the

latter event, the motion may be re-noticed for, and heard at,
the next term at which it can be made, held not less than

ten days after the day, when the nrst term was appointed
to be held.

§ 1283. A motion to set aside a final judgment, rendered
in a court of record, for error in fact, not arising upon the
trial, may be made by the party against whom it is rendered; or, if an execution has not been issued thereon,
and the judgment has not been wholly or partly satisfied or
enforced, by the party in whose favor it is rendered.

§ 1284. A like motion may be made, after the death of
a party entitled to make it, as prescribed in the last section,

by the following persons :

1. Where the judgment awards a sum of money, or a
chattel, or an interest in real property, which is declared
by law to be assets, the motion may be made by his executor or administrator.

2. Where the judgment awards real property, or the possession thereof, or where the title to or an estate or interest
in real property is determined or aifected thereby, the
motion may be made by the heir of the decedent, to whom
the real property descended, or might have descended, or
by the person to whom he devised it.

3. Where the judgment is rendered against or in favor
of two or more persons, the motion may be made, jointly,
by the survivor, and the person who would have been entitled to make it, if the judgment had been rendered in favor
of or against the decedent only.

§ 1285. A motion may be made, either before or after the
death of the defendant, by a person, who is not a party, to
set aside, for error in fact, not arising upon the trial, a
judgment, rendered in an action against a tenant for life, or
for years, awarding real property, or the possession of real
property, in which the person making the motion has an
estate, or interest, in reversion or remainder.

§ 1286. Where two or more persons are entitled to move
to set aside a judgment, as prescribed in the last three sections, one or more of them may move separately; but, in
that case, notice of the motion must be given to those who

do not join therein, in like manner as if they were adverse
parties.

§ 1287. Notice of a motion to set aside a final judgment,
for error in fact, not arising upon the trial, must be given
to the adverse party, or, in case of his death, to each person who might have moved, as against the moving party,
to set aside the judgment for the same cause, as prescribed
in this title. Where the motion is made by the party
against whom the judgment is rendered, or by his heir,
devisee, executor, or administrator, service of the notice,
upon the attorney of record for the party, in whose favor

the judgment is rendered, has the like effect, as if it was
served upon the party.

§ 1288. Where the judgment awards real property, or
the possession thereof, or where the title to, or an estate or
interest in, real property is determined or affected thereby,
and the real property, or estate or interest therein, has been
conveyed, by the adverse party, more than eight days before
the hearing of the motion, notice of the motion must also

be given to each actual occupant of the property, claiming
under the conveyance.

§ 1289. Notice must be given, in a case specified in this title, by personal service of a written notice, or of an
order to show cause why the motion should not be granted;
or, if a person entitled to notice cannot, With due diligence,
be found within the State, in any manner which the court,
or a judge thereof, directs in an order to show cause, or
which the court directs in a subsequent order.

§ 1290. A motion to set aside a final judgment, for error
in fact, not arising upon the trial, shall not be heard, except

as speciiied in the next section, after the expiration of two
years since the tiling of the j udgment-roll, unless notice
thereof is given, for a day within the two years ; and either
the hearing is adjourned, by one or more orders, until after
the expiration of the two years; or the term, for which it
is thus noticed, is not held. In the latter event, the motion
may be re-noticed for, and heard at, the next term at which

it can be made, held not less than ten days after the day,
when the first term was appointed to be held.

§ 1291. If the person, against whom the judgment is
rendered, is, at the time of filing the judgment-roll, either

1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or

2. Insane; or

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution,
upon conviction of a criminal oiifence, for a term less than
for life;

The time of such a disability is not a part of the time,

limited by the last section; except that the time, within
which the motion may be heard, cannot be extended more
than five years by such a disability, nor, in any case, more
than one year after the disability ceases.

§ 1292. Where a judgment is set aside for any cause,
upon motion, the court may direct and enforce restitution, l
in like manner, with like effect, and subject to ,the same‘
conditions, as where a judgment is reversed upon appeal.

CHAPTER XII.

APPEALS.

TITLE I. —GEnEEAL PROVISIONS, RELATING TO THE APPEALs PROvmnn ros IN rare CHAPTER.

TITLE II. — APPEAL TO THE cover or APPEALs.

TITLE III. —APPEAL TO THE SUPREME comer FROM AN mrnnron
ooUE'r.

TITLE IV. — APPEAL TO THE GENERAL TERM or THE eurnmm oomrr,
on or A SUPERIOR orrr COURT.

TITLE V.— APPEAL FROM A FINAL DE'rEEmNA'rIoN IN A ePEoIAL
PEOOEEDING.

PITLE I.

General provisions, relating to the appeals provided for in
this chapter.

31150. 1298. Writs of error abolished.

1294. When party may appeal.

1295. Parties to appeal; how designated. Title of cause.

1296. VVhen a person entitled to become a party may appeal.

1297. Appeal when adverse party has died.

1298. Proceedings, when party dies pending appeal.

1299. Order of substitution.

1800. Appeal, how taken.

1801. When notice of appeal to specify interlocutory judgment, etc.
1802. Proceedings, if attorney or party not found.

1803. Defects in proceedings may be supplied.

1804. Order appealed from must be entered. Proceedings to compel entry.
1805. Security may be waived.

1306. Deposit, in lieu of undertaking.

1807. Undertaking must be filed.

1808. New undertaking to be given, when sureties are insolvent, etc.
1809. Action upon undertaking, when not to be brought.

1810. When appeal stays proceedings; effect thereof.

1811. Levy upon personal property, when superseded by appeal.
1812. Court may limit amount of security in certain cases.

1813. No security necessary, on appeal by the people, etc.

1314. Id., on appeal by municipal corporation.

1315. Papers to be transmitted to appellate court.

1316. Interlocutory judgment, or intermediate order, may be reviewed.
1317. Judgment or order on appeal.

1318. When no appeal lies from judgment of reversal.

1319. Mode of enforcing amrmed or modified judgment.

1320. Id.; as to order.

1321. Mode of cancelling docket of reversed or modified judgment.
1322. Id. ; when reversal, etc., was by court of appeals.

1823. Restitution; when awarded.

§ 1293. The writ of error in a civil action or special proceeding has been abolished.

§ 1294. A party aggrieved may appeal, in a case prescribed in this chapter, except where the judgment or
order, of which he complains, was rendered or made upon

his default.

§ 1295. The party or person appealing is designated as

the appellant, and the adverse party as the respondent.’
After an appeal is taken to another court, the name of the

appellate ‘court must be substituted, for that of the court
below, in the title of the action or special proceeding, and
in any case, the name of the county, if it is mentioned, may
be omitted; otherwise the title shall not be changed, in consequence of the appeal.

§ 1296. A person aggrieved, who is not a party, but is
entitled by law to be substituted, in place of a party; or

who has acquired, since the making of the order, or the

rendering of the judgment appealed from, an interest, which
would have entitled him to be so substituted, if it had been
previously acquired, may also appeal, as prescribed in this chapter, for an appeal by a party. But the appeal cannot
be heard, until he has been substituted in place of the party ;
and if he unreasonably neglects to procure an order of substitution, the appeal may be dismissed, upon motion of the
respondent.

§ 1297. Where the adverse party has died, since the
making of the order, or the rendering of the judgment appealed from, or where the judgment appealed from was
rendered, after his death, in a case prescribed by law,
an appeal may be taken, as if he Was living; but it cannot
be heard, until the heir, devisee, executor, or administrator,
as the case requires, has been substituted as the respondent.
In such a case, an undertaking required to perfect the appeal,
or to stay the execution of the judgment or order appealed
from, must recite the fact of the adverse party’s death;
and the undertaking enures, after substitution, to the benefit
of the person substituted.

§ 1298. Where either party to an appeal dies, before the
appeal is heard, if an order, substituting another person in
his place, is not made, Within three months after his death,
the court, in which the appeal is pending, may, in its discretion, make an order, requiring all persons interested in the
decedent’s estate, to show cause before it, Why the judgment or order appealed from should not be reversed or
affirmed, or the appeal dismissed, as the case requires. The
order must specifya day, when cause is to be shown, which
must be not less than six months after making the order;
and it must designate the mode of giving notice to the persons interested. Upon the return day of the order, or at a
subsequent day, appointed by the court, if the proper person has not been substituted, the court, upon proof, by affidavit, that notice has been given, as required by the order,
may reverse or affirm the judgment or order appealed from,
or dismiss the appeal, or make such further order in the
premises, as justice requires.

§ 1299. Where the appeal is from one court to another,
an application for an order of substitution, as prescribed by
the last three sections, must be made to the appellate court.
Where personal service of notice of application for an order
has been made, within the State, upon the proper representative of the decedent, an order of substitution may be
made, upon the application of the surviving party.

§ 1300. An appeal must be taken, by serving, upon the:
attorney for the adverse party, as prescribed in article third ‘
of title sixth of chapter eighth of this act, and upon the clerk,
With Whom the judgment or order appealed from is entered,
by filing it in his office, a Written notice, to the effect, that
the appellant appeals from the judgment or order, or from
a specified part thereof.

§ 1301. Where the appeal is from a final judgment, or
from a final order in a. special proceeding,'and the appellant
intends to bring up, for review thereupon, an interlocutory
judgment, or an intermediate order, he must, in the notice

of appeal, distinctly specify the interlocutory judgment, or
intermediate order, to be reviewed.

§ 1302. If the attorney for the adverse party is dead;
or if h.e has been removed, and notice of the removal has
been served upon the appellant’s attorney, and another attorney has not been substituted in his place; or if, for any
reason, service of a notice of appeal, upon the proper attorney for the adverse party, cannot, with due diligence, be
made Within the State, the notice of appeal may be served

upon the respondent, in the manner prescribed by law for
serving it upon an attorney. If personal service upon the
respondent cannot, with due diligence, be so made Within
the State, the notice of appeal may be served, upon him,
and notice of the subsequent proceedings may be given to

him, as directed by a judge of the court, in or to Which the
appeal is taken.

§ 1303. Where the appellant, seasonably and in good
faith, serves the notice of appeal, either upon the clerk or
upon the adverse party, or his attorney, but omits, through
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, to serve it

upon the other, or to do any other act, necessary to perfect
the appeal, or to stay the execution of the judgment or
order appealed from; the court, in or to which the appeal
is taken, upon proof, by affidavit, of the facts, may, in its
discretion, permit the omission to be supplied, or an amendment to be made, upon such terms as justice requires.

§ 1304. An appeal cannot be taken from an order made
by a judge, out of court, until it is entered in the onice of
the proper clerk. Where such an order has not been so
entered, or the papers, upon which it was founded, have
not been filed in the same clerk’s office, the judge Who
made it, or, if he is absent, or unable or disqualified to act,
a judge of the court, in or to which an appeal therefrom
may be taken, must, upon the application of a party or other
person, entitled to take such an appeal, make an order, requiring the omission to be supplied, Within a specified time
after service of a copy of the order made by him. Upon
proof, by affidavit, that a copy of the latter order has been
served, and that the omission has not been supplied, the
same judge may make, upon notice, an order revoking and
annulling the original order. The provisions of the last section but one apply to the service of an order, or a notice,
as prescribed in this section.

§ 1305. An undertaking, which the appellant is required,
by this chapter, to give, or any other act which he is so
required to do, for the security of the respondent, may be
Waived by the Written consent of the respondent.

§ 1306. Where the appellant is required, by this chapter, to give an undertaking, he may, in lieu thereof, deposit

With the clerk, with Whom the judgment or order appealed
from is entered, a sum of money, equal to the amount, for
Which the undertaking is required to be given. The deposit has the same elfect, as filing the undertaking; and
notice that it has been made, has the same effect, as notice
of the filing and service of a copy of the undertaking.

The court, wherein the appeal is pending, may direct the

mode, in which the money shall be kept and disposed of,
during the pendency, or after the determination of the

appeal.

§ 1307. An undertaking, given as prescribed in this chapter, must be filed with the clerk, with whom the judg-g

ment or order appealed fron1 is entered.

§ 1308. The court, in which the appeal is pending, upon,
satisfactory proof, by afhdavit, that since the execution of;
an undertaking, given as prescribed in this chapter, one or?

more of the sureties therein have become insolvent; or that
his or their circumstances have become so precarious, that
there is reason to apprehend, that the undertaking is not
sufricient for the security of the respondent; may make an
order, requiring the appellant to file a new undertaking,
and to serve a copy thereof, as required with respect to
the original undertaking. If the appellant fails so to do,
within twenty days after the service of a copy of the
order, or such further time as the court allows, the appeal
must be dismissed, or the order or judgment, from which

the appeal is taken, must‘ be executed, as if the original
undertaking had not been given.

§ 1309. An action shall not be maintained, upon an

undertaking, given upon an appeal, taken as prescribed in title third, fourth or fifth of this chapter, until ten days
have expired, since the service, upon the attorney for the
appellant, of a written notice of the entry of a judgment
or order, afiirming the judgment or order appealed from, or
dismissing the appeal. Where an appeal to the court of
appeals, from that judgment or order, is perfected, and
security is given thereupon, to stay the execution of the
judgment or order appealed from, an action shall not be
maintained upon the undertaking, given upon the preceding appeal, until after the final determination of the
appeal to the court of appeals.

§ 1310. Where an appeal has been perfected, as prescribed in this chapter, and the other acts, if any, required
to be done, to stay the execution of the judgment or order
appealed from, have been done, the appeal stays all proceedings to enforce the judgment or order appealed from; except
that the court or judge, from Whose determination the appeal
is taken, may proceed in any matter, included in the action
or special proceeding, and not affected by the judgment or
order appealed from, or not embraced Within the appeal;
or may cause perishable property to be sold, pursuant to
the judgment or order appealed from. The proceeds of
such a sale must be paid, to abide the result of the appeal,
into the court, from or in which the appeal is taken; or, if
it Was taken as prescribed in title dfth of this chapter, into
the supreme court.

§ 1311. Where an appeal, taken, from a final judgment,
to the court of appeals, has been perfected, and the security,
required to stay the execution of the judgment, has been
given ; or where the security, given upon an appeal, taken
from a final judgment of the supreme court, a superior city
court, a county court, or the marine court of the city of
N ew-York, is equal to that required to perfect an appeal
to the court of appeals, and to stay the execution of the
judgment ; the court, in which the judgment appealed from
was rendered, may, in its discretion, and upon such terms
as justice requires, make an order, upon notice to the respondent, and the sureties in the undertaking, discharging a
levy upon personal property, made by virtue of an execution, issued upon the judgment appealed from. But this section does not authorize the discharge of a levy, made by
virtue of a warrant of attachment.

§ 1312. Where an appeal is taken, as prescribed in title
second or fourth of this chapter, the court, in or from which
the appeal is taken; or, Where an appeal is taken as prescribed in title third or fifth of this chapter, the court-, to

which the appeal is taken; may, in its discretion, make an

order, upon notice to the respondent, dispensing with o1
limiting the security, required to stay the execution of the
judgment or order appealed from, as follows:

1. Where the appellant is an executor, administrator,
trustee, or other person acting in another’s right, the security
may be dispensed with or limited, in the discretion of the
court.

2. The aggregate sum, in which one or more undertakings are required to be given, may be limited to not less
than fifty thousand dollars, where it would otherwise exceed
that sum.

§ 1313. Upon an appeal, taken by the people of the
State, or by a State officer, or board of State officers, the
service of the notice of appeal perfects the appeal, and
stays the execution of the judgment or order appealed from,
without an undertaking, or other security.

§ 1314. Upon an appeal, taken by a municipal corporation, the service of the notice of appeal perfects the appeal,
and stays the execution of the judgment or order appealed
from, without an undertaking, or other security; except
that, where an appeal is taken, as prescribed in title second, third or fourth of this chapter, the court, in or from
which the appeal is taken, may, in its discretion, require
security to be given. In that case, the form, nature, and
extent of the security, not exceeding that which is required
in a like case, from a natural person, and the time and
manner in which it must be given, must be prescribed by
the order of the court; and the mayor, comptroller, or

counsel to the corporation, may execute, in behalf of the
corporation, an undertaking, so required to be given.

§ 1315. Where an appeal is taken from a final judgment, }
as prescribed in title second or third of this chapter, the:

appellant must, within twenty days after it is perfected,<
cause a certified copy of the notice of appeal, of the judgment-roll, and of a case or notice of exceptions, if any, filed

after the entry of judgment, to. be transmitted to the appellate court, by the clerk, upon whom the notice of appeal was
served. Where an appeal from an order, or a part of an
order, is taken as prescribed in title second, third, or fifth of

this chapter, the appellant must, within the same time,
cause a certified copy of the notice of appeal, of the order,
and of the papers upon which the order was founded, to
be transmitted to the appellate court, by the same clerk. If
the appellant fails so to do, the respondent may cause those
papers to be so transmitted; and he is entitled to tax the
expense thereof, as a disbursement, where he recovers costs.
The clerk of the appellate court must file the papers so
transmitted; and, except where it is otherwise specially
prescribed by law, the appeal must be heard upon them.

§ 1316. An appeal, taken from a final judgment, brings
up for review, an interlocutory judgment, or an intermediate order, which is specified in the notice of appeal, and
necessarily affects the final judgment; and which has not
already been reviewed, upon a separate appeal therefrom,
by the court or the term of the court, to which the appeal
from the final judgment is taken. The right to review an
interlocutory judgment, or an intermediate order, as prescribed in this section, is not affected by the expiration of
the time, within which a separate appeal therefrom might
have been taken.

§ 1317. Upon an appeal from a judgment or an order, the
court, or the general term, to which the appeal is taken, may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify, the judgment or order appealed from, and each interlocutory judgment or intermediate order, which it is authorized to review,
as specified in the notice of appeal, and as to any or all of the
parties; and it may, if necessary or proper, grant a new
trial or hearing. A judgment, affirming wholly or partly a
judgment, from which an appeal has been taken, shall not,
expressly and in terms, award to the respondent, a sum of
money, or other relief, which was awarded to him by the

judgment so afhrmed.

§ 1318. Where a judgment, from which an appeal is taken,
is reversed upon the appeal, and a new trial is granted, an
appeal cannot be taken from the judgment of reversal; but
upon an appeal from the order granting a new trial, taken,
as prescribed by law, the judgment of reversal must also
be reviewed.

§ 1319. Where a judgment, from which an appeal has:
been taken, from one court to another, is wholly or partly:
aliirmed, or is modified, upon the appeal, it must beenforced,
by the court in which it was rendered, to the extent per- i
mitted by the determination of the appellate court, as if
the appeal therefrom had not been taken.

§ 1320. Where a fmal order, from which an appeal has:
been taken, fron1 one court to another, as prescribed in title‘
fifth of this chapter, is wholly or partly afhrmed, or is modiiied, upon the appeal, the appellate court may enforce its
order, or may direct the proceedings to be remitted, for
that purpose, to the court below, or to the judge who made
the order appealed from. ’

§ 1321. Where a final judgment for a sum of money, or:
directing the payment of a sum of money, has .been re-1
versed, or has been affirmed as to part only of the sum,i
upon an appeal, taken as prescribed in title third or fourthi
of this chapter; if an appeal to the court of appeals is not
taken and perfected, and the security required to stay
execution is not given, within ten days after the entry of
the judgment upon the appeal, in the clerk’s office where
the judgment appealed from is entered, the clerk must
make a minute of the reversal of the judgment, or of the
amount to which it has been reduced, upon his docketbook, in each place, where the judgment is docketed. A
transcript of the docket, as thus corrected, must be furnished by him, and may be filed in any county clerk’s
office, where the original judgment is docketed, as prescribed by law, with respect to the original docket; and

thereupon the county clerk must correct his docket accordingly. The lien of a udgment, the docket of Which is not
corrected, as prescribed in this section, remains unaifected
by the reversal or modiiication thereof’, until the decision
of the court of appeals, upon an appeal from the judgment reversing or modifying the same, or the expiration of
the time to take such an appeal.

§ 1322. Where a final judgment for a sum of money,
or directing the payment of a sum of money, has been
reversed, or anirmed as to part only of the sum, upon
an appeal to the court of appeals, the docket may be
corrected, as prescribed in the last section, at any time
after the remittitur has been filed in the court below.

§ 1323. Where a final judgment or order is reversed or
modified, upon appeal, the appellate court, or the general
term of the same court, as the case may be, may make or
compel restitution of property or of a right, lost by means
of the erroneous judgment or order; but not so as ‘to affect
the title of a purchaser, in good faith and for value, of
property sold, pursuant to a direction contained in the
judgment, or by virtue of an execution issued thereupon.
In the latter case, it may compel the value, or the purchase
price, to be restored, or deposited to abide the event of the
action, as justice requires.

TITLE II.

Appeal to the court of appeals

1324. What appeals may be taken.
1325. Limitation of time to appeal.
1826. Security to perfect appeal.
1327. Security to stay execution on judgment, etc., for money.
1328. Id.; on judgment, etc., for delivery of property.
1329. Id.; on judgment for a chattel.
1330. Id.; on judgment, etc., directing conveyance.
1331. Id.; on judgment, etc., for possession of real property.
1332. Construction of the last five sections.

1333. The last six sections qualified.

B30. 1834. Undertakings may be in one instrument ; form, and service thereof.
1335. Exception to sureties; justification.
1886. Appeal from final judgment rendered after affirmance of interlocutory
judgment, or denial of motion for new trial.

1337. What questions are brought up for review.
1838. When questions of fact to be reviewed.
1889. When a case to be prepared, etc., for the appeal.

§ 1324. An appeal may be taken to the court of appeals, :
in a case where that court has jurisdiction, as prescribed in sections 190 and 191 of this act.

§ 1325. An appeal to the court of appeals, from a final
judgment, must be taken, within two years after final judgment is entered, upon the determination of the general term
of the court below, and the judgment-roll filed. An appeal
to the court of appeals, from an order, must be taken within
sixty days after’ service, upon the attorney for the appellant,
of a copy of the order appealed from, and a written notice
of the entry thereof.

§ 1326. To render a notice of appeal, to the court of
appeals, eifectual, for any purpose, except in a case where
it is specially prescribed by law, that security is not necessary, to perfect the appeal, the appellant must give a written undertaking, to the effect, that he Will pay all costs and
damages, which may be awarded against him on the appeal,
not exceeding five hundred dollars. The appeal is perfected, when such an undertaking is given and a copy

thereof, with notice of the filing thereof, is served, as prescribed in this title.

§ 1327. If the appeal is taken from a judgment for a
sum of money, or from a judgment or order, directing
the payment of a sum of money, it does not stay the
execution of the judgment or order, until the appellant
gives a written undertaking, to the eifect, that if the judgment or order appealed from, or any part thereof, is
afiirmed, or the appeal is dismissed, he will pay the sum,
recovered or directed to be paid, by the judgment or order,

or the part thereof, as to which it is affirmed. But where
the judgment or order directs the payment of money in
fixed instalments, the undertaking must be to the effect,
that the appellant Will pay each instalment, which becomes
payable, pending the appeal, or the part thereof as to which
the judgment or order is affirmed, not exceeding a sum
specified in the undertaking, which must be nxed by a
judge of the court below. The court below may, at any
time afterwards, upon satisfactory proof, by affidavit, that
the sum so fixed is insufficient in amount, make an order,
requiring the appellant to give a further undertaking, to the
same effect, in a sum and within a time, speciiied in the order.
A failure to comply with such an order has the same effect,
as if no undertaking had been given, as prescribed in this section.

§ 1328. If the appeal is taken from a judgment or order,
directing the assignment or delivery of ' a document, or of
personal property, it does not stay the execution of the
judgment or order, until the thing directed to be assigned
or delivered, is brought into the court below, or placed in
the custody of an officer or receiver, designated by that
court; or the appellant gives a written undertaking as prescribed in the next section.

§ 1329. If the appeal is taken from a judgment for the

recovery of a chattel, it does not stay the execution of

the judgment, until the appellant gives a written undertaking, in a sum fixed by the court below, or a judge
thereof, to the effect, that the appellant will obey the direction of the appellate court, upon the appeal.

§ 1330. If the appeal is taken from a judgment or order,
directing the execution of a conveyance, or other instrument, it does not stay the execution of the judgment or
order, until the instrument is executed, and deposited with
the clerk, with whom the judgment or order is entered, to
abide the direction of the appellate court.

§ 1331. If the appeal is taken from a judgment, which
entitles the respondent to the immediate possession of real
property, or from a judgment or order, directing the sale or
the delivery of possession of real property, it does not stay
the execution of the judgment or order, until the appellant
gives a written undertaking, to the elfect that he will not,
while in possession of the property, commit, or suifer to be
committed, any waste thereon; and that, if the judgment
or order is affirmed, or the appeal is dismissed, he will pay
the value of the use and occupation of the property, or the
part thereof, as to which the judgment or order is affirmed,
from the time of taking the appeal, until the delivery of
the possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment or order,
not exceeding a specified sum, fixed by a judge of the court
below. Where the judgment is for a sale of mortgaged
premises, and the payment of a deficiency, the undertaking
must also provide for the payment of the deficiency.

§ 1332. Where the judgment or order, from which an
appeal is taken to the court of appeals, afhrms a judgment
or order, to the effect specified in either of the last live sections, the undertaking must be the same, as if the judgment or order, from which the appeal is so taken, was to
the same eifect, as the judgment or order so affirmed.

§ 1333. The last six sections do not extend to a case,
where it is specially prescribed by law, that an appeal may
be taken, or the execution of a judgment or order appealed
from may he stayed, without security, or where the security
to be given, for either purpose, is specially regulated by
law.

§ 1334. Where two or more undertakings are required to
be given, as prescribed in this title, they may be contained in
the same instrument, or in different instruments, at the option
of the appellant. Each undertaking, given as prescribed in 5
this title, must be executed by at least two sureties ; must‘

be approved by a judge of the court below; and must
specify the residence of each surety therein. A copy
thereof, with a notice showing where it is filed, must be
served on the attorney for the adverse party, with the notice
of appeal, or before the expiration of the time to appeal.

§ 1335. The "attorney for the respondent may, within ten
days after service of a copy of the undertaking, with notice
of the filing thereof, serve upon the attorney for the appellant, a written notice, that he excepts to the sufficiency of the
sureties. Within ten days thereafter, the sureties, or other
sureties in a new undertaking, to the same effect, must 
tify, before a judge of the court below, or a county judge.
At least five days’ notice of the justification must be given;
in every other respect, the provisions of sections 578, 579
and 580 of this act apply to the justification. If the judge
finds the sureties sufficient, he must indorse his allowance
of them, upon the undertaking, or a copy thereof; and a
notice of the allowance must be served upon the attorney
for the exceptant. The effect of a failure so to justify, and
to procure an allowance, is the same, as if the undertaking

had not been given.

§ 1336. Where final judgment is rendered in the court
below, after the aifirmance, upon an appeal to the general
term of that court, of an interlocutory judgment; or after
the refusal, by the general term, of a new trial, either upon
an application, made, in the first instance, at the general
term, or upon an appeal from an order of the special term,
or of the judge before whom the issues, or questions of fact,
were tried by a jury ; the party aggrieved may appeal
directly from the final judgment to the court of appeals,
notwithstanding that it was rendered at a special term, or
at a trial term, or pursuant to the directions, contained in a
referee’s report. But such an appeal brings up, for review,
only the determination of the general term, ailirming the
interlocutory judgment, or refusing the new trial

§ 1337. An appeal to the court of appeals from a final
judgment, or from an order, granting or refusing a new trial
in an action, or from a final order affecting a substantial
right, made, either in a special proceeding, or upon a summary application after judgment in an action, brings up for
review, in that court, every question, affecting a substantial
right, and not resting in discretion, which was determined
by the general term of the court below, in rendering the
judgment or making the order, from which the appeal is
taken; except that a question of fact, arising upon conflict
ing evidence, cannot be determined upon such an appeal,
unless where special provision for the determination thereof
is made by law.

§ 1338. Upon an appeal to the court of appeals from a
judgment, reversing a judgment entered upon a referee’s§
report, or _a decision of the court, upon a trial without a‘
jury; or from an order granting a new trial, upon such a
reversal; it must be presumed, that the judgment was not
reversed, or the new trial granted, upon a question of fact,
unless the contrary clearly appears, in the body of the judgment or order appealed from, In that case, the court of
appeals must review the determination of the general term
of the court below, upon the questions of fact, as well as
the questions of law

§ 1339. Where an appeal to the court of appeals, from;
a judgment, rendered at a general term of the court 3
below, upon a verdict, subject to the opinion of the court, 1
has been perfected, a case, containing a concise state- I
ment of the facts, of the questions of law arising thereupon,
and of the determination of those questions by the general
term, must be prepared and settled, by or under the direction
of the court below, and annexed to the judgment-roll. An
exception is not necessary, to enable the court of appeals to
review the determination of a question of law, arising upon
the verdict. A certified copy of the case must be transmitted to the court of appeals, instead of the case, upon which
the judgment of the court below was rendered. The court
below, or a judge thereof, may extend the time, limited by
law, Within which the papers_ must be transmitted to the
court of appeals, for the purpose of enabling the appellant
to procure the case to be prepared or settled.

TITLE III.
Appeal to the supreme court from am  court.

81:0. 1840. Appeal from judgment.
1841. Limitation of time; security.

1842. Appeal from order.

1343. Limitation of time and stay of proceedings.
1344. Appeal, where and how heard.
1845. Judgment or order, where entered.

§ 1340. An appeal may be taken, to the supreme court
from a final judgment, rendered by a county court, or by
any other court of record, possessing original jurisdiction,
Where an appeal therefrom to a court, other than the
supreme court, is not expressly given by statute.

§ 1341. An appeal, authorized by the last section, must
be taken within two years after the judgment-roll is filed.
Upon such an appeal, security must be given, to perfect the
appeal, or to stay the execution of the judgment, and the

sureties may be excepted. to, and must justify, as upon an
appeal to the court of appeals, from a judgment of the same
amount, or to the same eifect.

§ 1342. An appeal may also be taken, to the supreme
court, from an order, aifecting a substantial right, made by
the court or a judge, in an action brought in a court, specified in the last section but one.

§ 1343. An appeal, authorized by the last section, must

be taken, within thirty days after service upon the attorney for the appellant, of a copy of the order, and Written
notice of the entry thereof. Security is not required to perfect it; but it does not stay the execution of the order
from which it is taken. The appellate court, or a judge

thereof, may direct such a stay, upon such terms, as to
security or otherwise, as justice requires.

§ 1344. An appeal, taken as prescribed in this title, must
be heard at the general term. The provisions of title
fourth of this chapter, relating to the hearing of appeals,
taken in the supreme court, and to the subsequent proceedings thereupon, apply to an appeal, taken as prescribed in
this title, except as specified in the next section.

§ 1345. A judgment of the supreme court, rendered upon
an appeal authorized by this title, must be entered in the
judgment-book, kept in the office of the clerk of the county,
wherein the court below is located. The judgment-roll
must be filed in the same office; and must consist of a certilied copy of the judgnent, annexed to the papers transmitted from the court below. An order of the supreme court,
made upon such an appeal, must be entered, and the papers,
upon which the appeal was heard, must be filed, in the office
of the same clerk. The ‘dling of the judgment-roll, or the
entry of the order, as prescribed in this section, is a sufficient
authority for any proceeding in the court below, or before
the judge, who made the order appealed from, which the
judgment or order of the appellate court directs or permits.
But Where the execution of the judgment or order of the
appellate court is stayed, by an appeal to the court of
appeals, the proceedings in the court below, or before the
judge who made the order, are stayed in like manner.

TITLE IV.

Appealto tlwgeneraltermoftlw auprevne com-t,orofa
. 8upe1'7I0rcz'#g/court.

1846. Appeal from judgment.
1347. Appeal from order.
1848. Id.; when made out of court.
1349. Appeal from interlocutory judgment.

1850. Appeal from dual judgment, after amrmance of interlocutory judgment, or denial of new trial. Review in the court of appeals.
1851. Limitation of time ; order to stay proceedings.
1852. Stay of proceedings without order.
1358. Upon what papers appeal to be heard.

1364. Entry of judgment or order; judgment-roll.
1855. Hearing, etc., in the supreme court.

§ 1346. An appeal may be taken, to the general term of
the supreme court, or of a superior city court, from a final
judgment rendered in the same court, as follows:

1. Where the judgment was rendered upon a trial by a
referee, or by the court without a jury, the appeal may be

taken upon questions of law, or upon the facts, or upon
both.
2. Where the judgment Was rendered upon the verdict

of a jury, the appeal may be taken upon questions of
law.

§ 1347. An appeal may be taken, to the general term
of the supreme court, or of a superior city court, from
an order, made in an action, upon notice, at a special term
or a trial term of the same court, or, in the supreme court,
at a term of the circuit court, in either of the following
cases:

1. Where the order grants, refuses, continues, or modiiies
a provisional remedy.

2. Where it grants, or refuses a new trial; except that
Where specihc questions of fact, arising upon the issues, in
an action triable by the court, have been tried by a jury,
pursuant to an order for that purpose, as prescribed in section 971 of this act, an appeal cannot be taken from an
order, granting or refusing a new trial, upon the merits.

3. Where it involves some part of the merits.

4. Where it aifects a substantial right.

5. Where, in eifect, it determines the action, and prevents
a judgment, from which an appeal might be taken.

6. Where it determines a statutory provision of the State
to be unconstitutional; and the determination appears from
the reasons given for the decision thereupon, or is necessarily implied in the decision.

An order, made upon a summary application, after judg.

ment, is deemed to have been made, in the action, Within
the meaning of this section.

§ 1348. An appeal may also be taken, to the general
term of either of those courts, from an order, made in an
action, upon notice, by a judge, out of court, in a case Where
an appeal might have been taken, as prescribed in the last section, if the order had been made by the court.

§ 1349. An appeal may also be taken, to the general
term of either of those courts, from an interlocutory judgment, rendered at a special term or trial term of the same
court, or, in the supreme court, at a term of the circuit

court.

§ 1350. Where iinal judgment is taken, at a special term
or trial term, or pursuant to the directions of a referee, after
the afiirmance, upon an appeal to the general term, of an
interlocutory judgment; or after the refusal, by the general
term, of a new trial, either upon an application, made, in the
first instance, at the general term, or upon an appeal from an
order of the special term, or of the judge, before Whom the
issues, or questions of fact, were tried by a jury; an appeal
to the general term from the final judgment brings up, for
review, only the proceedings to take the final judgment, or

upon which the hnal judgment was taken, including the
hearing or trial of the other issues in the action, if any. If
an appeal is taken, to the court of appeals, from the determination of the general term, upon the appeal from the final
judgment, the determination of the general term, affirming
the interlocutory judgment or refusing the new trial, may,
at the election of either party, be reviewed thereupon. If
the respondent elects to bring it up for review, he may take
a cross-appeal therefrom, notwithstanding the expiration of
the time to take an original appeal therefrom.

§ 1351. An appeal, authorized by this title, must be taken,
within thirty days after service, upon the attorney for the
appellant, of a copy of the judgment or order appealed
from, and a written notice of the entry thereof. Security is
not required to perfect the appeal; but, except where it is
otherwise specially prescribed by law, the appeal does not
staythe execution of the judgment or order appealed from;
unless the court, in or from which the appeal is taken, or a
judge thereof, makes an order, directing such a stay. Such
an order maybemade, and may, from time to time, be modilied, upon such terms, as to security or otherwise, as justice
requires. If security is given, either as a condition of granting the order, or as prescribed in the next section, the provisions of title second of this chapter apply thereto, as if
the general term was specified in those provisions, in place
of the appellate court, and a judge of the same court, in
place of a judge of the court below.

§ 1352. Upon an appeal from a final judgment, taken
as prescribed in this title, the appellant may give the
security, required to perfect an appeal to the court of
appeals, from a judgment of the same amount, or to the
same effect; and to stay the execution thereof. In that
case, the execution of the judgment appealed from is
stayed, as upon an appeal to the court of appeals, and
subject to the same conditions.

§ 1353. An appeal from a final judgment, taken as pre-r
scribed in this title, must be heard upon a certified copy of
the notice of appeal, of the judgment-roll, and of the case or5
notice of exceptions, if any, filed, as prescribed by law or the
general rules of practice, after the entry of the judgment,
and either before or after the appeal is taken. An appeal
from an interlocutory judgment, or from an order, taken as
prescribed in this title, must be heard upon a certified copy
of the notice of appeal, and of the papers used before the
court or the judge, upon the hearing of the demurrer, application for judgment, or motion, as the case requires.

§ 1354. Where judgment of affirmance is rendered upon:
the appeal, the judgment-roll consists of a certified copy of 1
the judgment, annexed to the papers, upon which the;
appeal was heard. Where subsequent proceedings are?
taken, at the special term or trial term, before the entry
of final judgment, the j udgment-roll must also contain the
proper papers relating thereto.

§ 1355. An appeal taken to the general term of the i
supreme court, as prescribed in this title, must be heard in}
the department, embracing the county, in Which the judg- I
ment or order appealed from is entered; unless an order is
made, as prescribed in section 231 of this act, directing that
it be heard in another department. The judgment rendered, or the order made, upon the appeal, must be entered,
and the judgment-roll, or the papers upon which the appeal
Was determined, as the case requires, must be filed, in the
office of the clerk of the county, Where the judgment or
order appealed from is entered. If the appeal is determined at a general term, held in another county, the clerk
of that county must, at the expense of the successful party,
transmit a certified copy of the determination, and the
other papers, if any, required to be filed, to the clerk of
the county Where the judgment or order is to be entered.

TITLE V.
Agpeal from a fmal determination in a special proceeding.

BBC. 1856. Appeal from order made in the same court.
1857. Id. ; when made by another court or judge.
1358. Intermediate order may be reviewed.

1359. Limitation of time to appeal.

1360. Stay of proceedings; hearing of appeal; decision thereupon.
1861. This title qualided. Application of provisions relating to actions.

§ 1356. An appeal may be taken, to the general term of
the supreme court, or of a superior city court, from a final
order, affecting a substantial right, made in a special pro
ceeding, at a special term or a trial term of the same court,
or, in the supreme court, at a term of a circuit court; or
made by a judge of the same court, in a special proceeding
instituted before him, pursuant to a special statutory provision; or instituted before another judge, and transferred
to, or continued before him.

§ 1357. An appeal may also be taken to the supreme
court, from a final order, affecting a substantial right, made
by a court of record, possessing original jurisdiction, or a
judge thereof, in a special proceeding instituted in that
court, or before a judge thereof, pursuant to a special
statutory provision; or instituted before another judge,
and transferred to, or continued before, the judge who made
the final order. But this section does not apply to a case,
Where an appeal from the order, to a court, other than the
supreme court, is expressly given by statute.

§ 1358. An appeal, authorized by this title, brings up
for review, each intermediate order, made in the course of

' the special proceeding, involving the merits, and necessarily

affecting the final order appealed from, which is specified
in the notice of appeal.

§ 1359. An appeal, authorized by this title, must be
taken Within thirty days after service of a copy of the final
order, from which it is taken, With a Written notice of the
entry thereof, upon the appellant; or, if he appeared, upon
the hearing, by an attorney at law or an attorney in fact,
upon the person Who so appeared for him.

§ 1360. The provisions of title fourth of this chapter,
relating to perfecting an appeal from an order, taken as
therein prescribed; to staying the execution of the order
appealed from; to hearing the appeal; and to the entry
and enforcement of the order made upon the appeal, apply,
Where an appeal is taken, as prescribed in this title, except
as otherwise specially prescribed by law.

§ 1361. This title does not confer the right to appeal

1 from an order, in a case, where it is specially prescribed by

law, that the order cannot be reviewed. The proceedings
upon an appeal, taken as prescribed in this title, are governed by the provisions of this act, and of the general rules
of practice, relating to an appeal in an action, except as
otherwise specially prescribed by law.

CHAPTER XIII.

EXECUTIONS.

TITLE I.— Forms on ExEoUTIoN; TIME AND MLANNER or IssUING
AN ExEoUT1oN; GENERAL nUTIEs AND LumLITIEs
or OFFICERS.

TITLE II. — ExEoUTIoN AGAINST PROPERTY.

TITLE III. — ExEoUTIoN AGAINST THE PEEsoN.

TITLE 1.

Forms of eazecuticm; time and manner of issmrng an enemation ,' general duties and liabilities of ojicers.

Blue. 1362. To whom execution directed; provision where sherii is a party.

1363. Time of receipt to be indorsed on execution.

1364. The ditferent kinds of execution.

1365. To what counties executions may issue.

1366. General requisites of executions.

1367. Id ; when issued on filing transcript from justice’s court, etc.
1368. Requisites of execution for the collection of money.

1369. Id.; against property.

1370. Id.; where a warrant of attachment has been issued.

1371. Id.; against executor, etc.

1372. Id.; against the person.

1378. Id.; for delivery of property. How money, recovered by same judgment, may be collected.

1374. Separate executions, where separate sums awarded.

1375. Execution of course, within five years.

1376. Execution, after death of judgment creditor.

1377. When execution may be issued after five years.

1378. Id.; leave, how obtained.

1379. No execution against decedent, except, etc.

1380. Leave required to issue execution against decedent's property
1381. Leave, how obtained.

1382. Time of stay by order, etc., not reckoned under this title.
1383. Execution against surviving judgment debtors.

1384. Sale on execution, etc.; when and how conducted.

1385. Penalty for taking down or defacing notice of sale.

1386. Validity of sale, when not affected by sheriffs default, etc.
1387. Purchases on such sales, by certain oliicers, prohibited.

1388. When execution to be enforced by under-sheriff.

§ 1362. An execution must be directed to the sheriff,
unless he is a pa.rty or interested; in which case it must be
directed as prescribed in section 17 3 of this act. But the
court may, in its discretion, order an execution, issued upon
a judgment rendered against a sheriff, either alone or with
another, to be directed to a person, designated in the order,
instead of to the coroners, or a particular coroner; in which
case it must be so directed. The person so designated must

be of full age, a resident of the State, and not a party to
the action, or interested therein. Where the execution is
issued upon a judgment for a sum of money, or directing
the payment of a sum of money, the order does not take
effect, until the person so designated executes, and files in
the clerk’s office, a bond to the people, with at_ least two
sureties, approved by a judge of the court, or a county
judge, in a penal sum, fixed by the order, not less than
twice the sum to be collected by virtue of the execution;
conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties under
the execution. A certified copy of the order, and, where it
requires a bond to be given, the clerk’s certificate that a
bond has been filed, as required by the order, must be
attached to the execution. The person so designated is
deemed an officer; and, with respect to that execution, he
is subject to the obligations and liabilities, and has the

power and authority of a coroner, and is entitled to fees
accordingly.

§ 1363. The sheriff, to whom an execution is directed
and delivered, must, upon the receipt thereof, indorse thereupon a memorandum of the year, month, day, and hour of
the day, when he received it.

§ 1364. There are four kinds of execution, as follows:

1. Against property.

2. Against the person.

3. For the delivery of the possession of real property,
with or without damages for withholding the same.

4. For the delivery of the possession of a chattel, with
or Without damages for the taking or detention thereof.

An execution is the process of the court, from which it
is issued.

§ 1365. An execution against property can be issued
only to a county, in the clerk’s office of which the judgment is docketed. An execution against the person may
be issued to any county. An execution for the delivery of
the possession of real property, must be issued to the county,
Where the property, or a part thereof, is situated. An execution for the delivery of the possession of a chattel, may
be issued to any county, Where the chattel is found ; or to
the sheriff of the county Where the judgmentroll is filed.
Executions, upon the same judgment, may be issued at the
same time, to two or more different counties.

§ 1366. An execution” must intelligibly describe the
judgment, stating the names of the pa.rties in Whose favor,
and against Whom, the time When, and the court in Which,
the judgment was rendered; and, if it was rendered in the
supreme court, the county in which the judgment-roll is
filed. It must require the sheriff to return it to the proper
clerk, Within sixty days after the receipt thereof-. Except
as otherwise prescribed in the next section, it must be
made returnable to the clerk, with Whom the j udgment-roll

is filed.

§ 1367. Where an execution is issued out of a court,
other than that in which the judgment was rendered, upon
filing a transcript of the judgment rendered in the latter
court, it must also specify the clerk, With Whom the transcript is liled, and the time of filing; and it must be made
returnable to that clerk. If the judgment was rendered
in a justice’s court, it must specify the justice’s name ; and
it must omit the specification, respecting the filing of the
j udgment-roll.

§ 1368. An execution, issued upon a judgment for asum
of money, or directing the payment of a sum of money,

must specify, in the body thereof, the sum recovered, or
directed to be paid, and the sum actually due when it is
issued. It may specify a day, from which interest upon
the sum due is to be computed ; in which case, the sheriff must
collect interest accordingly, until the sum is paid. If all
the parties, against whom the udgment is rendered, are

not judgment debtors, the execution must show who is the
judgment debtor.

§ 1369. An execution against property must, if the judgment-roll is not med in the clerk’s office of the county to
which it is issued, specify the time when the judgment was
docketed in that county. It must, except in a case where
special provision is otherwise made by law, substantially
require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, out of the personal property of the judgment debtor; and, if sufiicient
personal property cannot be found, out of the real property,
belonging to him, at the time when the judgment was docketed in the clerk’s office of the county, or at any time thereafter.

§ 1370. Where a warrant of attachment, issued in the ,
action, has been levied, the execution must substantially ;

require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, as follows:

1. Where the judgment debtor is a non-resident, or a for- i

eign corporation, and the summons was served upon him
or it, Without the State, or otherwise than personally, pursuant to an order obtained for that purpose, as prescribed
in chapter fifth of this act, and the judgment debtor has

not appeared in the action; out of the personal property
attached, and, if that is insufficient, out of the real property
attached.

2. In any other case, out of the personal property attached; and, if that is insufficient, out of the other personal
property of the judgment debtor; if both are insufficient,

out of the real property attached; and, if that is insufiicient,
out of the real property, belonging to him, at the time when
the judgment was docketed in the clerk’s office of the
county, or at any time thereafter.

§ 1371. An execution against real or personal property,
in the hands of an executor, administrator, heir, devisee,

legatee, tenant of real property, or trustee, must substantially require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, out of that

property.

§ 1372. An execution against the person must substantially require the sheriff, to arrest the judgment debtor, and
commit him to the jail of the county, until he pays the
judgment, or is discharged according to law. Except where
it may be issued, without the previous issuing and return
of an execution against property, it must recite the issuing

and return of such an execution, specifying the county to
which it was issued.

§ 1373. An execution for the delivery of the possession
of real property, or a chattel, must particularly describe the
property, and designate the party to whom the judgment
awards the possession thereof; and it must substantially
require the sheriff, to deliver the possession of the property,
within his county, to the party entitled thereto. If a sum of
money is awarded by the same judgment, it maybe collected,
by virtue of the same execution; or a separate execution
may be issued for the collection thereof, omitting the direction to deliver possession of the property. If one execution
is issued for both purposes, it must contain, with respect
to the money to be collected, the same directions as an execution against property, or against the person, as the case
requires.

§ 1374. Where a judgment awards different sums of
money, to or against different parties, a separate execution

may be issued, to collect each sum so awarded; subject to
the power of the court, to control the enforcement of the
executions, upon motion, where the collection of one execution will, wholly or partly, satisfy another.

§ 1375. Except as otherwise specially prescribed by law,
the party recovering a. final judgment, or his assignee, may
have execution thereupon, of course, at any time within
live years after the entry of the judgment.‘

§ 1376. Where the party, recovering a final judgment, has
died, and the execution is issued in behalf of an assignee,
a statement of that fact, containing the name and residence
of the assignee, must be indorsed upon the execution. In
any other case, the court may, by order, permit the personal representative, heir, or devisee of the decedent, as the
case requires, to have execution upon the judgment, within
five years after the entry thereof. The execution must be
in the same form, as if the party recovering the judgment
was living, except that the substance of the order must be

recited, in an indorsement thereupon.

§ 1377. After the lapse of five years from the entry of a
final judgment, execution can be issued thereupon, in one of
the following cases only: A

1.’ Where an execution was issued thereupon, within five '
years after the entry of the judgment, and has been returned

wholly or partly unsatisfied.
2. Where an order is made by the court, granting leave
to issue the execution.

§ 1378. Notice of an application for an order, granting;
leave to issue an execution, as prescribed in the last section, 
must be served personally upon the adverse party, if he is a
resident of the State, and personal service can, with reasonable diligence, be made upon him therein; otherwise, notice
must be given in such manner as the court directs. Where

- the judgment is for a sum of money, or directs the payment
of a sum of money, leave shall not be granted, except on
proof, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the court, that the

judgment remains wholly or partly unsatisfied.

§ 1379. An execution to collect a sum of money cannot
be issued, against the property of a judgment debtor, who
has died since the entry of the judgment, except as prescribed in the next two sections.

§ 1380. After the expiration of one year from the death
of a party, against whom a final judgment for a sum of
money, or directing the payment of a sum of money, is rendered, the judgment may be enforced by execution, against
any property upon which it is a lien, with like effect as if
the judgment debtor was still living. But such an execution shall not be issued, unless an order, granting leave to
issue it, is procured from the court, from which the execution is to be issued, and a decree, to the same effect, is procured from a surrogate’s court of the State, which has
duly granted letters testamentary or letters of administration, upon the estate of the deceased judgment debtor.

§ 1381. Leave to issue an execution, as prescribed in the
last section, must be procured as follows :

1. Notice of the application, to the court, from which the
execution is to be issued, for an order, granting leave to issue
the execution, must be given to the person or persons, whose
interest in the property will be affected by a sale by virtue of
the execution, and also to the executor or administrator of the
judgment debtor. The general rules of practice may prescribe the manner in which the notice must be given; until
provision is so made therein, it must be served, either
personally, or in such a manner as the court prescribes, in
an order to show cause. Leave shall not be granted, except
upon proof, by aiiidavit, to the satisfaction of the court,
that the judgment remains wholly or partly unsatisfied.

2. For the purpose of procuring a decree from the surro- 1

gate’s court, granting leave to issue the execution, the judgment creditor must present to that court, a written petition,
duly verified, setting forth the facts, and praying for such
a decree; and that the persons, specified in the first subdivision of this section, may be cited, to show cause why it
should not be granted. Upon the presentation of such a
petition, the surrogate must issue a citation accordingly ;
and, upon the return thereof, he must make such a decree in
the premises, as justice requires.

§ 1382. The time during which the person, entitled to
enforce a judgment, is stayed from enforcing it, by the provision of a statute, or by an injunction or other order, or in
consequence of an appeal, is not a part of the time, limited
by this title, for issuing an execution thereupon, or for

making an application for leave to’ issue such an execution.

§ 1383. The last six sections do not affect the right of a
judgment creditor to enforce a udgment, against the property of one or more surviving judgment debtors, as if all
the judgment debtors were living. In that case, an execution must be issued in the usual form; but the attorney
for the judgment creditor must indorse thereupon, a notice
to the sheriff, reciting the death of the deceased judgment
debtor, and requiring the sheriff not to collect the execution,
out of any property which belonged to him.

§ 1384. A sale of real or personal property, by virtue of
an execution, or pursuant to the directions contained in a
judgment or order, must be made at public auction, between
the hour of nine o’clock in the..morning and sunset.

§ 1385. A person who, before the time fixed for the sale,
in a notice of the sale of property, to be made by virtue
of an execution, willfully takes down or defaces such a

notice put up by the sheriff, or by his authority, forfeits
iifty dollars to the judgment creditor, and the same sum to
the judgment debtor; unless the notice was defaced or taken
down, with the consent of the person seeking to enforce
the forfeiture, or the execution was previously satisfied.

§ 1386. An omission by the sheriff to give notice, as
required by law, or the taking down or defacing of a notice,
when put up, does not affect the validity of a sale, made by
virtue of an execution, to a purchaser in good faith, without notice of the omission or offense.

§ 1387. The sheriff, to Whom an execution is directed, or

the under-sheriff or deputy-sheriff, holding an execution,

and conducting a sale of property by virtue thereof, shall
not, directly or indirectly, purchase any of the property at
the sale. A purchase made by him, or to his use, is void.

§ 1388. Where the sheriff, to Whom an execution is delivA ered, dies, is removed from office, or becomes otherwise disqualified to act, before thelexecution is returned, his undersheriff must proceed upon the execution, as the sheriff
might have done. If there is no under-sheriff, the court,
from which the execution issued, may designate a person
to proceed thereupon; who may complete the same, as an
under-sheriff might have done. The person so designated
must give such security as the court directs. He is deemed
an oilicer; and is subject to the same obligations and liabilities, and has the same power and authority-, in relation
to the object of his appointment, as a sheriff, and is entitled
to fees accordingly. But this section does not apply, in a
case where special provision is otherwise made by law, for
the enforcement of an execution, after the death, removal

from office, or other disqualification, of the sheriff, or undersheriff.

TITLE II.
Ehcecution against proper!/y.

ART. 1. Property exempt from levy and sale.
2. Lien of an execution upon personal property; levy upon and sale of personal property. Rights of indemnitors of sheridi

3. Sale, redemption, and conveyance of real property; rights and liabilities

of persons interested.

4. Remedies for failure of title to real property sold, and to enforce contri1389.
1390.
1391.
1392.
1393.

1394.
1395.
1396.
1397.
1398.
1399.
1400.
1401.
1402.
1403.
1404.

bution.

ARTICLE FIRST.

Puornnrr nxaurr rnou Lnvx AND SALE.

Certain special exemptions not afected by this article.

What personal property is exempt, when owned by a householder.
Additional personal property exempt in certain cases.

Widow, etc., or married woman entitled to exemption as a householder.
Military pay, rewards, etc., exempt from execution and other legal proceedings.

Right of action for taking, etc., exempt property.

Burying ground; when exempted.

How exempt burying ground designated.

Homestead; when exempted.

How exempt homestead designated.

Married woman's homestead ; when exempted.

When exemption to continue after owner’s death.

Exemption; when not afected by temporary suspension of residence.
If value of homestead exceeds $1,000, lien attaches to surplus.

Id.; how proceeds to be marshalled when property is sold.

Exemption of real property, how cancelled.

§ 1389. The enumeration, in this article, of the property

which is exempt from levy and sale _by_ virtue of an execution, does not repeal any special provision of law, relating
to such an exemption, which, by its terms, is applicable only
to a particular class of persons, or corporations, or to a particular locality, or otherwise to a special case.

§ 1390. The following personal property, when owned

by a householder, is exempt from levy and sale by virtue
of an execution; and each moveable article thereof continues to be so exempt, while the family, or any of them,
are removing from one residence to another:

1. All spinning wheels, weaving looms, and stoves, put

up, or kept for use, in a dwelling house; and one sewingmachine, with its appurtenances.

2. The family bible, family pictures, and school-books,
used by or in the family; and other books, not exceeding
in value fifty dollars, kept and used as part of the family
library.

3. A seat or pew, occupied by the judgment debtor, or
the family, in a place of public worship.

4. Ten sheep, with their fleeces, and the yarn or cloth
manufactured therefrom; one cow; two swine; the necessary
food for those animals; all necessary meat, fish, flour, and
vegetables, actually provided for family use; and necessary
fuel, oil, and candles, for the use of the family for sixty
days.

5. All wearing apparel, beds, bedsteads, and bedding,
necessary for the judgment debtor and the family; all necessary cooking utensils; one table; six chairs; six knives;
six forks; six spoons; six plates; six tea cups; six saucers;
one sugar dish; one milk pot; one tea pot; one crane and
its appendages; one pair of andirons; one coal-scuttle; one
shovel; one pair of tongs; one lamp; and one candlestick.

6. The tools and implements of a mechanic, necessary to
the carrying on of his trade, not exceeding in value twentyfive dollars.

§ 1391. In addition to the exemptions, allowed by the
last section, necessary household furniture, working tools
and team, professional instruments, furniture, and library,
not exceeding in value two hundred and fifty dollars,
together with the necessary food for the team, for ninety
days, are exempt from levy and sale by virtue of an execu~
tion, when owned by a person, being a householder, or having a family for which he provides, except where the execution is issued upon a judgment, recovered wholly upon

one or more demands, either for work performed in the

family as a domestic, or for the purchase money of one or
more articles, exempt as prescribed in this or the last section.

§ 1392. Where the judgment debtor is a widow, having
a child, whom she supports, or a married woman, she is entitled to the same exemptions, from levy and sale by virtue
of an execution, subject to the same exceptions, as prescribed in the last two sections, in the case of a householder.

§ 1393. The pay and bounty of a non-commissioned
oilicer, musician, or private, in the military or naval service
of the United States; a land warrant, pension, or other
reward, heretofore or hereafter granted by the United
States, or by a state, for military or naval services; a
sword, horse, medal, emblem, or device of any kind, presented, as a testimonial, for services rendered in the military or naval service of the United States; and the uniform,
arms, and equipments, which were used by a person in that
service, are also exempt from levy and sale, by virtue of an
execution, and from seizure for non-payment of taxes, or in
any other legal proceeding.

§ 1394. A right of action to recover damages, or damages
awarded by a judgment, for taking or injuring personal
property, exempt by law from levy and sale, by virtue of an
execution, are exempt, for one year after the collection

thereof, from levy and sale, by virtue of an execution, and
from seizure in any other legal proceeding.

§ 1395. Land, set apart as a family or private burying
ground, and heretofore designated, as prescribed by law, in
order to exempt the same, or hereafter designated for that
purpose, as prescribed in the next section, is exempt from
sale, by virtue of an execution, upon the following conditions only:

1. A portion of it must have been actually used for that
purpose.

2. It must not exceed in extent one-fourth of an acre.

3. It must not contain, at the time of its designation, or

at any time afterwards, any building or structure, except
one or more vaults, or other places of deposit for the dead,

or mortuary monuments.

§ 1396. In order to designate land, to be exempted as
prescribed in the last section, a notice, containing a full
description of the land to be exempted, and stating that it
has been set apart for a family or private burying ground,
must be subscribed by the owner; acknowledged or proved,
and certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded in the
county where the land is situated; and recorded in the
office of the clerk or register of that county, in the proper
book for recording deeds, at least three days before the sale
of the land, by virtue of the execution. '

§ 1397. A lot of land, with one or more buildings thereon,
not exceeding in value one thousand dollars, owned, and
occupied as a residence, by a householder having a family,
and heretofore designated as an exempt homestead, as prescribed bylaw, or hereafter designated for that purpose,
as prescribed in the next section, is exempt from sale, by
virtue of an‘ execution, issued upon a judgment, recovered
for a debt contracted after the thirtieth day of April, eighteen hundred and fifty; unless the judgment was recovered
wholly for a debt or debts, contracted before the designation
of the property, or for the purchase-money thereof.

§ 1398. In order to designate property, to be exempted
as prescribed in the last section, a conveyance thereof, stating, in substance, that it is designed to be held as a homestead, exempt from sale by virtue of an execution, must be
recorded, as prescribed by law; or a notice, containing a
full description of the property, and stating that it is
designed to be so held, must be subscribed by the owner,
acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like manner as a

deed to }pe recorded in the county where the property is
situated; and must be recorded by the clerk of that county,
in a book, kept by the clerk for that purpose, and styled

“Homestead Exemption Book.”

§ 1399. "A. lot of land, with one or more buildings thereon,
owned by a married woman, and occupied by her as a residence, may be designated as her exempt homestead, as prescribed in the last section ; and the property so designated
is exempt from sale, by virtue of an execution, under the
same circumstances, and subject to the same exceptions, as
the lfomestead of a householder, having a family.

§ 1400. The exemption, prescribed by the last three sections, continues, after the death of the person in whose
favor the property was exempted, as follows:

1. If the decedent was a woman, it continues, for the
benefit of her surviving children, until the majority of the
youngest surviving child.

2. If the decedent was a man, it continues, for the benefit
of his widow and surviving children, until the majority of
the youngest surviving child, and until the death of the
widow.

But the exemption ceases earlier, if the property ceases
to be occupied, as a residence, by a person for whose benefit it may so continue, except as otherwise prescribed in the
next section.

§ 1401. The right to exemption, of a person entitled
thereto, as prescribed in the last four sections, is not
affected by a suspension of the occupation of the exempt
property, as a residence, for a period not exceeding one year,
which occurs in consequence of injury to, or destruction of,
the dwelling house upon the premises.

§ 1402. The exemption of a homestead, otherwise valid
under the provisions of this article, is not void, because the
value of the property, designated as exempt, exceeds one
thousand dollars. In that case, the lien of a judgment
attaches to the surplus, as if the property had not been
designated as an exempt homestead; but the property cannot be sold by virtue of an execution, issued upon a judgment, as against which it is exempt. After the return of
such an execution, the owner of the judgment may maintain
a judgment creditor’s action, to procure a judgment, directing a sale of the property, and enforcing his lien upon the
surplus.

§ 1403. Where the judgment, in a judgment cre<£tor’s

action, brought as prescribed in the last section, or in any
other action affecting the title to an exempt homestead,

directs the sale of the property, the court must so marshal’

the proceeds of the sale, that the right and interest of each
person in the proceeds, shall correspond, as nearly as may
be, to his right and interest in the property sold. Money,
not exceeding one thousand dollars, paid to a judgment
debtor, as representing his interest in the proceeds, is
exempt for one year after the payment, as the property sold
was exempt; unless, before the expiration of the year, he
can see real property to be designated as an exempt homestead,
as prescribed in section 1398 of this act; in which case, the
exemption ceases, with respect to so much of the money, as
was not expended for the purchase of that property; and the
exemption of the property so designated extends to every
debt, against which the property sold was exempt. Where
the exemption of property, sold as prescribed in this section, has been continued after the judgment debtor’s death,
or where he dies after the sale,.and before payment to him
of his proportion of the proceeds of the sale, the court may
direct that portion of the proceeds, which represents his
interest, to be invested, for the benefit of the person or persons, entitled to the benefit of the exemption; or to be
otherwise disposed of, as justice requires.

§ 1404. The owner of real property, exempt as prescribed
-in this article, may, at any time, subscribe a notice, and
{personally acknowledge the execution thereof, before an
officer, authorized by law to take the acknowledgment of a
deed, to the effect, that he cancels all exemptions from
levy or sale by virtue of an execution, a:Eecting the property, or a particular part thereof, fully described in the
notice. The cancellation takes effect, when such a notice is
recorded, as prescribed in this article for recording a notice
to effect the exemption so cancelled. Any other release or
Waiver, hereafter executed, of an exemption of real property,
allowed by this article, or of an exemption of a homestead,
or a private or family burying ground, allowed by the provisions of law heretofore in force, is void. A mortgage, hereafter executed, upon property so exempt, is ineffectual,
until the exemption has been cancelled, as prescribed in
this section; except that such a mortgage is valid, to the
extent of the purchase-money of the same property, secured

thereby. ,

ARTICLE SECOND.

has or an EXECUTION UPON PERSONAL Pnoraxrrx; Lnvr UPON mp Sam:
on mmsonax. Pnormrrrx; RIGHTS or Iummnrrons or SHERIFF.

Site. 1405. Personal property bound by execution.

1406. Order of preference among executions.

1407. Id.; when attachments also are issued.

1408. Id.; when issued from court not of record.

1409. Title of bona tide purchasers before levy, not afected.

1410. Execution may be levied upon current money. A

1411. Levy upon certain evidences of debt.

1412. Interest of bailor in goods pledged may be sold.

1413. When partners may apply for release of property levied upon.
1414. Undertaking to be given.

1415. Provision, where a warrant of attachment has also been levied, etc.
1416. When the undertaking eiiures to other judgment creditors.

1417. How partner's interest sold; rights, etc., of purchaser.

1418. Claim of property by a third person, how tried.

1419. Proceedings, if claimant succeeds.

1420. Inquisition not to prejudice claimant’s right.

1421. In action against officer, indemnitors may be substituted as defendants.
1422. Notice of application and proofs thereupon.

1423 Terms may be imposed.

1424. When indemnity related to part of property.

1425. Application vsihen ofilcer is joined with indemnitors.

1426. Effect of the order.

1427. Omcer to whom indemnity is given, required to give notice of action.
1428. Sale of personal property; how made.

1429. Notices of sale to be posted.

§ 1405. The goods and chattels of a judgment debtor, ,
not exempt, by express provision of law, from ‘levy and sale"

by virtue of an execution, and his other personal property,
which is expressly declared by law, to be subject to levy by
virtue of an execution, are, when situated Within the 
diction of the oilicer, to Whom an execution against property is delivered, bound by the execution, from the time of
the delivery thereof to the proper oilicer, to be executed;
but not before.

§ 1406. Where two or more executions against property
are issued, out of the same or different courts of record,
against the same judgment debtor, the one nrst delivered,
to an oiiicer, to be executed, has preference, notwithstanding
that a levy is first made, by virtue of an execution subsequently delivered; but if a levy upon and sale of personal
property has been made, by virtue of the junior execution,
before an actual levy, by virtue of the senior execution, the
same property shall not be levied upon or sold, by virtue
of the latter.

§ 1407. Where there are one or more executions, and one
or more Warrants of attachment, against the property of the
same person, the rule prescribed in the last section prevails,
in determining the preferences of the executions or warrants
of attachment; the defendant in the Warrants of attachment
being, for that purpose, regarded as a udgment debtor.

§ 1408. But an execution, issued out of a court not of
record, or a Warrant of attachment, granted in an action
pending in a court not of record, if actually levied, has
preference over another execution, issued out of any court,
of record or not of record, which has not been previously
levied.

§ 1409. The title to personal property, acquired before
the actual levy of an execution, by a purchaser in good
faith, and Without notice that the execution has been
issued, is not affected by an execution delivered, before
the purchaseiwas made, to an oiiicer, to be executed.

§ 1410. The oiiicer, to Whom an execution against property is delivered, must levy upon current money of the
United States, belonging to the judgment debtor; and must
pay it over, as so much money collected, without exposing
it for sale; except that where it consists of gold or silver
coin, he must sell it, like other personal property; unless he
is other Wise directed, by the general rules of practice, or by
the judgment in the particular cause.

§ 1411. The oilicer, to Whom an execution against property is delivered, must levy upon and sell, a bill, or other
evidence of debt, belonging to the judgment debtor, which
Was issued by a moneyed corporation to circulate as money;
or a bond, or other instrument for the payment of money,
belonging to the judgment debtor, which was executed and
issued, with one or more interest coupons annexed, by a
government, state, county, public oiiicer, or municipal or
other corporation, and is in terms negotiable, or payable to
the bearer, or holder.

§ 1412. The interest of the judgment debtor in personal
property, subject to levy, lawfully pledged, for the payment
of money, or the performance of a contract or agreement,
may be sold, in the hands of the pledgee, by virtue of an
execution against property. The purchaser at the sale
acquires all the right and interest of the judgment debtor,
and is entitled to the possession of the property, on complying with the terms and conditions, upon which the judgment
debtor could obtain possession thereof. This section does
not apply to property, of which the judgment debtor is
unconditionally entitled to the possession.

§ 1413. Where an officer has seized personal property of
a partnership, before or after its dissolution, upon a levy
upon the interest therein of a partner, made by virtue of
an execution against his individual property, the other
partners, or former partners, having an interest in the property, or any of them, may, at any time before the sale, apply
to a judge of the court, or to the county judge of the county,
where the seizure was made, upon an affidavit, showing the
fact, for an order, directing the officer to release the property,
and to deliver it to the applicant.

§ 1414. Upon such an application, the applicant must

give an undertaking, with at least two sureties, approved

by the judge, to the effect, that he will account to the purchaser, upon the sale to be made by virtue of the execution,

of the interest of the judgment debtor in the property
seized, in like manner as he would be bound to account to
an assignee of such an interest; and that he will pay to the
purchaser the balance, which may be found due upon the
accounting, not exceeding a sum, specified in the undertaking, which must be not less than the value of the interest of
the judgment debtor, in the property seized by the sheriff, as
fixed by the judge. The provisions of sections 695 and 696
of this act apply to the proceedings, taken as prescribed in
this and the last section.

§ 1415. Where a warrant of attachment has been levied
upon the interest of a defendant, as a partner, in personal
6 property of a partnership, and the attachment has been discharged as to that interest, as prescribed in sections 693
and 694 of this act, a levy, by virtue of an execution against
his individual property, cannot be made upon his interest
in the same property, unless the warrant of attachment has
been vacated, or annulled.

§ 1416. Where personal property of a partnership has
= been released, upon giving an undertaking, as prescribed in
the last three sections, if the execution, by virtue of which
the levy was made, is set aside, or is satisfied without a
sale of the interest levied upon, the undertaking enures

to the benefit of each judgment creditor of the san1e judgment debtor, then having an execution in the hands of the

same officer, or of another officer, having authority to levy
upon that interest, as if it had been given to obtain a release from a seizure, made by virtue of such an execution.

§ 1417. Where personal property of a partnership has
been so released, the interest of the judgment debtor therein

may be sold by the officer; and the purchaser, upon the sale,»

acquires all that interest, as if he Was an assignee thereof.
If the purchase money exceeds the amount of all the executions and Warrants of attachment, against the property of
the same judgment debtor, of Which the oiiicer has notice,
and of the lawful fees and charges thereon, the oliicer must
pay the surplus into court, for the benefit of the judgment
debtor, or other person entitled thereto.

§ 1418. If personal property, levied upon as the property
of the judgment debtor, is claimed, by or in behalf of
another person, as his property, the officer may, in his discretion, empanel a  to try the validity of the claim.

§ 1419. If, by their inquisition, the jurors find that the
property belongs to the claimant, they must also determine
its value. Thereupon the oliicer must relinquish the levy,
unless the judgment creditor gives him an undertaking,
With at least two sufiicient sureties, to the effect, that the
sureties Will indemnify him, to an amount therein specified,
not less than twice the value of the property, as determined
by the jury, and two hundred and fifty dollars in addition
thereto, against all damages, costs and expenses, in an action
to be brought against him, by the claimant, his assignee, or
other representative, by reason of the levy upon or sale of
any of the property, by virtue of the execution. If the
undertaking is given, the oilicer must detain the property,
as belonging to the judgment debtor.

§ 1420. If the property is found to belong to the defendant, the finding does not prejudice the right of the claimant,

to bring an action to recover the property so levied upon, or
damages by reason of the levy thereupon, or the sale thereof.

§ 1421. Where an action to recover a chattel, levied upon
by virtue of an execution, or a warrant of attachment, or to
recover damages by reason of a levy upon, or a sale or
removal of personal property, by virtue of an execution, or
a warrant of attachment, is hereafter brought against an
officer, or against a person who acted by his command or in
his aid, if a bond or written undertaking, indemnifying the
oilicer against the levy or other act, was given, in behalf of
the judgment creditor, or the plaintifff in the warrant, before
the action was commenced, the person or persons who gave
it, or the survivors, if one or more are dead, may apply to
the court,- for an order to substitute the applicants, as
defendants in the action, in place of the oilicer, or of the
person so acting by his command, or in his aid.

§ 1422. Notice of the application must be given to the
attorney for each party to the action. If the defendant
has not appeared, notice must be given to him personally.
If the pleadings do not sufhciently show, that the case is
one where the order may be granted, the facts, with respect
thereto, must be shown by affidavit, or other competent
proof. The motion papers must contain a written consent,
to be made a defendant in the action, executed by each
person, who executed the instrument of indemnity, unless
proof, by affidavit, is furnished, that those who do not consent are dead. Each consent must be acknowledged or

proved, and certified, in like manner as a deed to be
recorded in the county

§ 1423. Upon granting the order, the court may, in its
discretion, require the applicants to furnish additional security to the plaintifff, and to pay the reasonable expenses of
the defendant, necessarily incurred before the order is
granted; or it may impose such other terms, for the security of either of the original parties, as justice requires.

§ 1424. If the indemnity, given by the applicants, related to a part only of the property, the court may, in a proper §
case, direct, that the action be divided into two actions; 
that the applicants be substituted as defendants in one,
Without affecting the other; and that the controversy in
each action be limited to that part of the property, in
respect to which it is to be continued. Where such an
order is made, a similar application. may be subsequently
made, in the action which proceeds against the original
defendant.

§ 1425. If the officer, or person acting by his command, ;
or in his aid, is joined as a defendant, with all the persons '
entitled to make an application, they may apply for an t
order to strike out his name, as a defendant. If he is joined 1
as a defendant, with one or more, but not all of them, those
Who are not made defendants, may apply to be substituted as
defendants in his place. In either case, the application is
made in the same manner, and is subject to the same provisions, as if it Was made as prescribed in section 1421 of
this act.

§ 1426. An order, made as prescribed in the last five sections, does not affect the merits of the cause of action, or
of the defense, except so far as it limits the controversy to
particular property. But if the substituted or remaining
defendants recover judgment, they are entitled to single
costs only. If the action is discontinued, or the complaint
dismissed, a new action may be brought, as if the former
action had not been brought.

§ 1427. Where an action is brought, in a case Where one
or more persons are entitled to make an application, for an
order of substitution, as prescribed in section 1421 of this
act, the ofHcer, to Whom the instrument of indemnity Was
given, cannot maintain an action thereupon, against a person entitled to make, but who has not made, such an
application; unless notice of the commencement of the

action against the officer, or the person acting by his command, or in his aid, is given, before the trial thereof, or at
least ten days before judgment by default is taken therein,
either to the attorney Whose name is subscribed to the
execution or Warrant of attachment, or, personally, to the
judgment creditor, or to the plaintifff in the action in which
the Warrant of attachment Was issued, or to one of the
persons who executed the instrument of indemnity.

§ 1428. Personal property must be oifered for sale, in
such lots and parcels, as are calculated to bring the highest
price. Except where the oiiicer is expressly authorized, by
this article, to sell property not in his possession, personal
property shall not be offered for sale, unless it is present,
and within the view of those attending the sale.

§ 1429. At least six days’ previous notice of the time

and place of a sale of personal property, by virtue of an execution, must be given, by posting conspicuously Written or
printed notices thereof, in at least three public places of
the town or city, Where the sale is made.

ARTICLE THIRD.

SALE, Rnnmn-'rIoN, AND Coxvnnncs. or Ran. Paornnrr; Brains an
Lranrmrms or Paasons mrnnssrnn.

1430. To what leasehold property this article applies.

1431. Real property held in trust, when liable to execution.
1432. Equity of redemption; when not to be sold.

1433. Direction to be indorsed on execution.

1434. Notice of sale of real property; how given.

1435. Property. how described therein. Part may be sold.
1436. Penalty for irregularity in sale.

1437. Manner of conducting sale.

1438. Sherif to make duplicate certificates of sale.

1439. Certidcate to be recorded, etc.

1440. Title to real property not divested before deed.

1441. Rights of holder of the property during intermediate period.
1442. Order to prevent waste; when and how applied for.
1443. Proceedings to punish violation of the order.

1444. Mode and extent of punishment.

1445. How warrant, etc., superseded.

1446. VVhen and how real property sold may be redeemed.

SIC. 1447. By whom such redemption may be made.

1448. Such redemption avoids the sale.

1449. When creditor may redeem.

1450. What sum to be paid, etc., when creditor redeems.

1451. Redemption by another creditor from a redeeming creditor.

1452. Id.; when second redeeming creditor has the prior lien.

1453. Subsequent redemptions by other creditors.

1454. When creditor may redeem after iifteen months.

1455. When redemption must be made at sherid‘ ‘s oilice.

1456. Original purchaser may redeem, when also a creditor.

1457. Creditor may redeem again under another judgment, or mortgage.
1458. Redemption by person entitled to redeem part.

1459. Redemption by owners of undivided shares.

1460. Id.; by creditors having liens on undivided shares.

1461. Right to redeem not afected by agreement.

1462. To whom money paid upon redemption.

1463. Certificate of satisfaction required to effect redemption by creditor.
1464. What evidence a redeeming judgment creditor must furnish.

1465. Id.; as to mortgage creditor.

1466. Id. ; as to executor or administrator.

1467. Oflicers to keep papers open to inspection; when to file them.
1468. When redemption takes effect.

1469. Certificate to be given, when redemption made.

1470. Certificate may be acknowledged and recorded.

1471. When and by whom conveyance to be executed.

1472. To whom conveyance to be executed. .
1473. When conveyance made to executor or administrator; effect thereof.
1474. Assignment must be acknowledged and filed.

1475. Under-sheriff or successor to act, if sheriff' dies.

1476. Money may be paid, etc., to under-sherid‘, or deputy-sherif, who sold

property.
1477. Application of this article to sale by coroner, or person specially
appointed, etc.
1478. Id. ; where coroner or person appointed dies, etc.

§ 1430. The expresssion, “real property”, asused in this article, includes leasehold property, Where the lessee or his
assignee is possessed, at the time of the sale, of at least five
years unexpired term of the lease, and also of the building or buildings, if any, erected thereupon.

§ 1431. Real property, held by one person, in trust or for
the use of another, is liable to levy and sale by virtue of
an execution, issued upon a judgment recovered against the
person, to Whose use it is so held, in a case Where it is prescribed by law, that, by reason of the invalidity of the trust,
an estate vests in the beneliciary; but special provision is

not otherwise made by law, for the mode of subjecting it to
his debts.

§ 1432. The judgment debtor’s equity of redemption, in
real property mortgaged, shall not be sold by virtue of an
execution, issued upon a judgment recovered for the mortgage debt, or any part thereof.

§ 1433. Where an execution against property, is issued
upon a judgment, specified in the last section, to the county
Where the mortgaged property is situated, the attorney, or
other person who subscribes it, must indorse thereupon a
direction to the sheriff, not to levy it upon the mortgaged
property, or any pa.rt thereof. The direction must briefly
describe the mortgaged property, and refer to the book and
page, Where the mortgage is recorded. If the execution is
not collected out of the other property of the judgment
debtor, the sheriff must return it wholly or partly unsatislied, as the case requires.

§ 1434. The sheriff who sells real property, by virtue of
an execution, must previously give public notice of the
time and place of the sale, as follows:

1. A Written or printed notice thereof must be conspicuously fastened up, at least forty-two days before the sale,
in three public places, in the town or city Where the sale is
to take place, and also in three public places, in the town or
city Where the property is situated, if the sale is to take
place in another town or city.

2. A copy of the notice must be published, at least once
in each of the six Weeks, immediately preceding the sale, in
a newspaper published in the county, if there is one; or, if
there is none, in the newspaper printed at Albany, in which
legal notices are required to be published.

§ 1435. In each notice, specified in the last section, the
real property to be sold must be described With common
certainty, by setting forth the name of the township or
tract, and the number of the lot, if there is any, or by some
other appropriate description. The validity of a sale is not
aEected by the fact, that the property sold is part only of
the property advertised to be sold. 

§ 1436. A sheriff who sells real property, by virtue of an
execution, without having given notice thereof, as prescribed
in the last two sections, or otherwise than as prescribed in
this chapter, forfeits one thousand dollars to the party injured, in addition to the damages which the latter sustains

thereby.

§ 1437. Where real property, offered for sale by virtue ;
of an execution, consists of two or more known lots, tracts, or parcels, each lot, tract, or parcel must be separately‘
exposed for sale. If a person who is the owner of, or is
entitled by law to redeem, a distinct parcel of the property,
of any other description, requires that parcel to be exposed
for sale separately, the sheriff must expose it accordingly.
No more real property shall be exposed for sale, than it
appears to be necessary to sell, in order to satisfy the execution.

§ 1438. The sheriff, who sells real property, by virtue of:
an execution, must make out, subscribe, and acknowledge;
before an oiiicer authorized to take the acknowledgment of;
a deed, duplicate certificates of the sale, containing:

1. The name of each purchaser, and the time when the
sale was made.

2. A particular description of the property sold. .
3 3. The price bid for each distinct parcel separately sold.

4. The whole consideration money paid.

§ 1439. The sheriff must, within ten days after the sale, 1
file one of the duplicate certificates, in the office of the clerk 1
of the county, and deliver another to the purchaser. If
there are two or more purchasers, a certificate must be
delivered to each. The clerk must immediately record the
certificate in a book, kept by him for that purpose, and must
index the record, to the name of the judgment debtor. His
fees for so doing must be paid by the sheriff, as part of the
expenses of the sale. '

§ 1440. The right and title of the udgment debtor, or of
a person holding under him, or deriving title through him,
to real property, sold by virtue of an execution, is not divested by the sale, until the expiration of the period, Within
which it can be redeemed, as prescribed in this article, and
the execution of the sheriff’s deed. But if the property is
not redeemed, and a deed is executed in pursuance of the
sale, the grantee in the deed is deemed to have been vested
with the legal estate, from the time of the sale, for the purpose of maintaining an action for an injury to the property.

§ 1441. The person entitled to the possession of real
property, sold by virtue of an execution, as prescribed in
the last section, may, during the period therein specified,
use and enjoy the same as follows, Without being chargeable
with committing Waste:

1. He may use and enjoy it in like manner, and for the
like purposes, as it was used and enjoyed before the sale,
doing no permanent injury to the freehold.

2. He may make necessary repairs to a building, or other
erection thereupon. But this subdivision does not permit
an alteration in the form or structure of the building, or
other erection.

3. He may use and improve the land, in the ordinary
course of husbandry; but he is not entitled to a crop, growing thereon, at the expiration of the period of redemption.

4. He may apply any Wood or timber on the land to the
necessary reparation of a fence, building, or other erection,
Which Was thereupon at the time of the sale.

5. If he actually occupies the land sold, he may take
necessary firewood therefrom for use in his household.

§ 1442. If, at any time during the period allowed for

redemption, the judgment debtor, or any other person in
possession of the property sold, commits, or threatens to

commit, or makes preparations for committing, Waste thereupon, the supreme court, or any justice thereof, Within the
judicial district, or the county judge of the county, in

which the property, or any part thereof, is situated, may,
upon the application of the purchaser, or his assignee, or
the agent or attorney of either, and proof, by aiiidavit, of
the facts, grant, without notice, an order,‘ restraining the
wrong-doer from committing waste upon the property.

§ 1443. If the person, against whom such an order is
granted, commits waste in violation thereof, after the service upon him of the order, with a copy of the affidavit
upon which it was granted, the court or judge, upon proof,
by aiiidavit, of the facts, may grant an order, requiring him
to show cause, at a time and place therein specified, why he
should not be punished for a contempt.

§ 1444. If, upon the return of the order to show cause, it
satisfactorily appears, that the person, required to show
cause, has violated the former order, the court or judge may
either punish him, as prescribed by law for the punishment
of a contempt of a court of record, other than a criminal
contempt; or may grant a warrant, directed to the sheriff
of the county, reciting the former order, and the violation
thereof, and commanding the sheriff to commit the wrong
doer to close confinement, for a term specified therein, not

more than one year. A person thus committed cannot be
admitted to the liberties of the jail.

§ 1445. The warrant may be superseded, and the prisoner
discharged, by an order, in the discretion of the court or
judge committing him, upon his executing, to the person
who applied for the warrant, an undertaking, in a sum fixed,
and with sureties approved, by the court or judge, to the
effect, that he will pay any judgment, which the applicant,
or his assignee, or other representative, may recover against
him, by reason of any waste theretofore or thereafter committed on the property; and upon his paying to the applicant, for the costs and expenses of the proceedings, a sum,
fixed by the court or judge.

§ 1446. Within one year after the sale of real property,
by virtue of an execution, a person, specified in the next section, may redeem it, by paying to the purchaser, his executor, administrator, or assignee, or to the sheriff who made
the sale, for the use of the person so entitled thereto, the sum
of money which was paid upon the sale, with interest from
the time of the sale, at the rate of ten per centum a year.

§ 1447. The redemption, speciiied in the last section, may
be made, either by the judgment debtor, Whose right and title were sold, or by his heir, devisee, or grantee, who has
acquired, by inheritance, devise, deed, sale, by virtue of a
mortgage or of an execution, or by any other means, an
absolute title to the property proposed to be redeemed; or,
in a case specified in section 1458 or 1459 of this act, to a
portion thereof.

§ 1448. Upon payment being made, by a person entitled
to redeem real property, as prescribed in the last two sections, the sale of the property redeemed, and the certificates
of the sale, as far as they relate thereto, become null and
void. '

§ 1449. Real property, sold by virtue of an execution,
Which remains, at the expiration of one year after the sale,
unredeemed by the person or persons entitled to redeem it,
as prescribed in the last three sections, may be redeemed,
within three months after the expiration of the year, by the
creditors specified, and upon the terms and in the manner
prescribed, in the following sections of this article.

§ 1450. In a case speciiied in the last section, a creditor,
having in his own name, or as executor, administrator,
assignee, trustee, or otherwise, a judgment rendered, or a
mortgage duly recorded, at any time before the expiration
of fifteen months from the time of the sale, which is a lien
upon the real property sold, may redeem that property, by
paying the sum of money, which was paid upon the sale

thereof, with interest at the rate of seven per centum a
year from the time of the sale, and executing a certificate
of satisfaction, as prescribed in the next section.

§ 1451. Where a creditor has redeemed real property, as
prescribed in the last section, any other creditor, who might
have redeemed it from the purchaser, as therein prescribed,
may redeem it from the first redeeming creditor, as follows:

1. He must reimburse to the first redeeming creditor, his
executor, administrator, or assignee, the sum paid by him to
redeem the property, With interest at the rate of seven per
centum a year, from the time of his redemption.

2. He must execute a certificate of satisfaction, relating
to _his judgment or mortgage, in like manner as the first
redeeming creditor was required to do.

3. If the judgment or mortgage, by virtue of Which the
first creditor redeemed, is prior to the judgment or mortgage of the second creditor, the second creditor must also
pay to the first creditor, the sum specified in the certificate
of satisfaction, executed by him upon his redemption, With
interest at the rate of seven per centum a year, from the
time of his redemption ; unless the first redeeming creditor’s
judgment or mortgage had ceased, when he redeemed, to be
a lien as against the second redeeming creditor; in Which

case, the latter need not pay any part of the sum, specified
in the certificate.

§ 1452. Where the lien of the second redeeming creditor’s judgment or mortgage, is prior to that of the first
redeeming creditor’s judgment or mortgage, so that the
former redeems, Without paying the sum, specified in the latter’s certificate of satisfaction, the latter may, Without executing another certificate of satisfaction, again redeem from
the former, or from any subsequent redeeming creditor, in a
case, Wherehe would have been entitled to redeem, if his
first certificate had not been executed; and he has the same
rights, With respect to any creditor redeeming from him, as

if his first certificate had been executed, when he made his
second redemption.

§ 1453. A third or other creditor, Who might have
redeemed, as prescribed in the last four sections, may
redeem from the second or any other creditor, Who has
redeemed, in the manner, and upon the terms and conditions,
prescribed in the last two sections.

§ 1454. A creditor, who might have redeemed Within
fifteen months after the sale, as prescribed in the last four sections, may redeem from any other redeeming creditor,
although the fifteen months have elapsed; provided, that he
thus redeems Within twenty-four hours after the last previous redemption.

§ 1455. A redemption, made by a creditor, on or after the
last day of the iifteen months, must be made at the sheriff’s
oiiice of the county. The sheriff, or his under-sheriff, or a
deputy-sheriff, in his behalf, must attend at the sheriff’s
office, for that purpose, on the last day of the fifteen months,
and on each day thereafter, in which a redemption can be
made, during the time when the sheri1f’s oihce is required
by law to be kept open. In the absence of the sheriff, the
redemption may be made, by paying the necessary money,
and delivering the necessary papers, to the under-sheriff, or
to any deputy-sheriff, present at the sheriff’s oihce. If the
term of office of the sheriff, Who made the sale, has expired,
and he, or his under-sheriff, or a deputy-sheri:H:' authorized,
in his behalf, to receive the necessary money and the necessary papers, is not present, the money may be paid, and the
papers may be delivered, to the sheriff then in office, or to the
under-sheriff or a deputy-sheriff of the latter.

§ 1456. If the purchaser, at the execution sale, of property, which can be redeemed by a creditor, as prescribed in
this article, is also a creditor of the judgment debtor, and
as such could redeem from a purchaser, or a redeeming creditor, he may avail himself of his judgment or mortgage, to
redeem from any other redeeming creditor.

§ 1457. The judgmentcreditor, by virtue of whose execu- .
tion real property has been sold, cannot avail himself of the ,‘
judgment, upon which the execution was issued, to redeem 1
the property; nor, except as otherwise specially prescribed 
in this article, can a creditor, who has once redeemed, avail ;
himself of the same judgment or mortgage, to redeem again.
But if either has another judgment or mortgage, which
would entitle him to redeem, he may avail himself thereof
for that purpose, in the same manner and on the same
terms, as any other creditor.

§ 1458. Where a person, who has an absolute title to, or
a judgment or mortgage, which is a lien upon, a distinct 
parcel only of. the real property, sold by virtue of an exe- 7
cution, would be authorized, by this article, to redeem the 3
property, if his title or lien extended to the whole, he may
redeem, from a purchaser, the entire property sold, or from
a prior redeeming creditor, the entire property redeemed by
that creditor; except that if his title or lien extends to a
distinct parcel only of one or more parts of the property,
which were separately. sold, he can redeem, from a purchaser, only the part or parts thus separately sold, in which
his distinct parcel is included.

§ 1459. Where two or more persons own undivided;
shares, as joint tenants, or as tenants in common, in real .
property, sold by virtue of an. execution, or in a distinct 1
parcel thereof, which has been separately sold; each of
them may redeem, from the purchaser, as prescribed in sections 1446 and 1447 of this act, the share or interest,
belonging to him, by paying a part of the purchase money,
bid for the property, or for that distinct parcel thereof,
bearing the same proportion to the whole, as the share or
interest, proposed to be redeemed, bears to the property, or
distinct parcel separately sold, of which it is a part; together
with interest on the sum so paid, from the time of the sale,
at the rate of ten per centum a year.

§ 1460. Where the judgment or mortgage of a creditor,
entitled to redeem, is a lien upon an undivided share, specified in the last section, he may redeem, from a purchaser, that
undivided share, by paying him the same proportion of the
purchase money, which the owner must have paid to redeem
it, as prescribed in the last section; or he may redeem, from
a prior redeeming creditor, the entire property redeemed by
the latter, with like eifect and in the same manner, as if his
lien attached to the whole.

§ 1461. The sheriff, the purchaser, the judgment creditor,
or a redeeming creditor, cannot, by his agreement or other
act, in any manner impair or prejudice the right of any
other person to redeem, as prescribed in this ‘article.

§ 1462. The money required to be paid by a creditor, in
order to eifect a redemption of real property, as prescribed
in this article, may be paid to the purchaser or creditor,
from whom the property is to be redeemed, his executor,
administrator, or assignee; or it may be paid, for the use of

the person so entitled thereto, to the sheriff who made the
sale.

§ 1463. The certificate of satisfaction, required to be
executed by a creditor, in order to effect a redemption
of real property, must be acknowledged or proved, and
certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded in the
county; must describe, With reasonable certainty, the judgment or mortgage under which he redeems, and specify
the sum due thereupon; and must state, that the redemption satisfies the judgment or mortgage, in full, or to a specified amount. It must be filed in the county clerk’s office,
at or before the time when the money is paid to effect the
redemption, unless the money is paid to the sheriff; in which
case, the certificate must also be delivered, at the time of
the payment, to the sheriff, who must file it in the county
clerk’s oiiice, before he executes a deed of the property.

The county clerk, immediately after the execution and
recording of the deed, must enter, in his docket, the satisfaction, or partial satisfaction, of a judgment, specified in a certificate so filed, as required by law, when a judgment
is collected, by virtue of an execution. If a mortgage, specified in the certificate, is recorded in his odice, he must cancel
and discharge the mortgage of record, if it is satisfied
by the certificate; or, if it is only partially satisfied, he
must make a minute of the partial satisfaction, upon the
record thereof. If the property mortgaged is situated in a
county, in which there is a register, the county clerk must
transmit a certified copy of the certificate to the register,
Who must, in like manner, cancel and discharge the mortgage of record, or make a minute of the partial satisfaction

' thereof. The clerk’s and register’s fees, for performing the

services specified in this section, must be paid by the sheriff ;
who may require the person entitled to a deed to pay him
the amount thereof, before the deed is delivered. '

§ 1464. In order to entitle a creditor by judgment to redeem real property, as prescribed in this article, he must,
when he redeems, file in the county clerk’s oihce, or deliver
to the sheriff, as the case requires, the following evidence of
his right :

1. A copy of the docket of the judgment, under which

he claims the right to redeem, duly certified by the county

clerk.

2. Each assignment of the judgment, which is necessary
to establish his right. The assignment so delivered or filed
must be acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded, or the execution thereof must
be proved, by the affidavit of the creditor, or of a Witness
thereto; unless it has been filed, and entered, as prescribed
in article third of title first of chapter eleventh of this act,
in Which case, a certified copy thereof must be filed or delivered.

3. An affidavit, made by him, or his attorney or agent,
stating truly the sum remaining unpaid on the judgment,
at the time of claiming the right to redeem.

§ 1465. In order to entitle a creditor by mortgage to redeem real property, as prescribed in this article, he must,
when he redeems, file in the county clerk’s office, or deliver
to the sheriff, the following evidence of his right:

1. A copy of the mortgage, under which he claims the
right to redeem, duly certified by the clerk or register of
the county.

2. Each assignment of the mortgage, which is necessary
to establish his right, acknowledged or proved, and certilied, as prescribed in the last section for an assignment of a
judgment, unless it has been recorded; in which case a
certified copy of the record must be filed or delivered.

3. An aifidavit, made by him, or by his attorney or agent,
stating truly the sum remaining unpaid on the mortgage, at
the time of claiming the right to redeem.

§ 1466. In either of the cases speciiied in the last two sections, if the person, proposing to redeem, claims to be entitled so to do, by reason of his being an executor or administrator of a person, who, if living, would be entitled to_

redeem, he must file or deliver, with the other papers therein
prescribed, a certified copy or a sworn copy of his letters
testamentary, or letters of administration.

§ 1467. The sheriff, to whom one or more papers, specified
in the last four sections, are delivered, must keep them
open, at all reasonable times during the period allowed for
redemption, to the inspection of all persons interested. He
must have all those papers at the sheriff’s office, at the times
when he is required to attend thereat, for the purpose . of
enabling creditors to redeem, as prescribed by law; and he
must file them in the county clerk’s office, within three days

after the execution of the deed.

§ 1468. A redemption by a creditor is eifected, only
when he has paid all the money, required to be paid, and
filed or delivered all the papers, required to be filed or

delivered, as prescribed in this article; and a waiver of any
of those requirements is void, as against a person who is
entitled subsequently to redeem. Where a redemption is
thus effected, it vests in the redeeming creditor all the
right, title, and interest, which the purchaser acquired by
the sale.

§ 1469. Where a redemption is made, as prescribed in
this article, the oiiicer or other person, to Whom money is
paid, or a paper is delivered, for the purpose of eifecting
the redemption, must execute and deliver, to the person
paying the money or delivering the paper, a certificate,
stating all the facts which transpired before him, with
respect to the redemption.

§ 1470. Such a certificate may be acknowledged or proved,
and certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded in
the county Where the property is situated. The recording
thereof, in the ofrice of the clerk or register of that county,
in the book for recording deeds, has the same effect, as
against subsequent purchasers and encumbrancers, as the
recording of a conveyance.

§ 1471. Immediately after the expiration of fifteen months
from the time of the sale; except Where a redemption has
been made on the last day of the fifteen months, and, in
that case, immediately after the expiration of twenty-four
hours from the last redemption; the sheriff, who made the
sale, must execute the proper deed or deeds, in order to
convey to the person or persons entitled thereto, the part or
parts of the property sold, which have not been redeemed
by the judgment debtor, his heir, devisee, or assignee. The
deed conveys to the grantee therein the right, title, and
interest, which were sold by the sheriff.

§ 1472. If any part of the property remains unredeemed
by a creditor, it must be conveyed, by the sheriff, to the
purchaser upon the sale, except Where the certificate of sale

has been assigned; in which case, it must be conveyed to
the last assignee. Any part or parts of the property sold,
which have been redeemed by a creditor, must be conveyed
by the sheriff, to the last redeeming creditor, except where
he has assigned the certificate of redemption, or has executed any other assignment of his right, title, and interest in
the property redeemed by him; in which case, it must be
conveyed to the last assignee.

§ 1473. Where a person, entitled to a deed, dies before
the delivery of the deed, the sheriff must execute and
deliver the deed to his executor or administrator. The
property so conveyed must be held, in trust for the use of
the heirs or devisees of the decedent, subject to the dower
of his widow, if there is one; but it may be sold, in a proper
case, for the payment of his debts, in the same manner as
land, whereof he died seized.

§ 1474. Before an assignee, or his executor or administrator, is entitled to a deed, as prescribed in the last two sections, each assignment, under which the deed is claimed,
must be acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded in the county where the property is situated, and must be filed in the office of the clerk

of that county.

§ 1475. Where a sheriff dies, is removed from office, or
becomes otherwise disqualified to act, at any time after
making a sale of real property, by virtue of an execution,
the property, or a distinct parcel thereof, may be redeemed,
by paying the necessary money, and delivering the necessary
papers, to his under-sheriff, who must also execute and
deliver the proper deed or deeds of property, not redeemed
by the judgment debtor, his heir, devisee, or grantee. If
the under-sheriff also dies, is removed from office, or becomes otherwise disqualified to act, the property may be
redeemed, by paying the necessary money, and delivering

the necessary papers, to the sheriffs successor in oilice, who
must also execute and deliver the proper deed or deeds.
The under-sheriff, or the sheriffs successor, as the case
requires, possesses all the powers, and is subject to all the
duties and liabilities, of the sheriff who made the sale,
touching the redemption and conveyance of property sold,
and the proceedings relating thereto: and each provision
of law, regulating those proceedings, and applicable to the
sheriff Who made the sale, is applicable to his under-sheriff
or successor. This section applies Where a sale was made,
either before or after this act takes effect.

§ 1476. Where real property is sold, by virtue of an execution, by the under-sheriff or a deputy-sheriff, in behalf of
the sheriff, money required to be paid, or a paper required
to be delivered, to the sheriff, in order to effect a redemption,
as prescribed in this article, at any time before the last
day of the fifteen months from the time of the sale, may be
paid or delivered, either to the sheriff, or to the under-sheriff
or deputy-sheriff, who made the sale. .

§ 1477. Where real property is sold, by virtue of an
execution, by a person specially appointed by the court, as
prescribed in section 1362 or section 1388 of this act, it
may be redeemed, as prescribed in this article, as if it had
been sold by the sheriff, except as follows:

1. Money, required to be paid, or a paper, required to be
delivered, to the sheriff, in order to effect a redemption, as prescribed in this article, at any time before the last day of the
fifteen months from the time of the sale, must be paid to the
oiiicer Who made the sale; unless the person entitled to redeem, his agent or attorney, files with the clerk of the county,
With the paper or papers required to be filed, or to be delivered to the sheriff, for the purpose of effecting the redemption, his affidavit, to the effect, that the oiiicer is dead; or
has been removed ; or, Where he is a coroner, that he is no
longer in office ; or that after diligent search, the aiiiant has
been unable to find him Within the county; in which case, the

money may be paid into court, by paying it to the county
treasurer, to the credit of the cause, With like effect, as
Where it is paid to the sheriff, after a sale by the latter.

2. The provisions of section 1455 of this act, apply to a
redemption, upon a sale made as prescribed in this section;
and the officer, who sold the property, must attend, as the
sheriff is therein required to attend. If he is not present,
the redemption may be effected, as prescribed in that section, for redemption in a case, Where the term of office of

the sheriff, who made the sale, has expired.

§ 1478. If, when the period for redemption expires, a
coroner, or a person specially appointed by the court, who
has‘ sold real property, by virtue of an execution, is dead,
or has been removed, or, in the case of a coroner, if he is
no longer in office, the court must, upon the application of
a person entitled to a deed, appoint a person, to execute
the deed accordingly.

ARTICLE FOURTH.

Rmmnms FOB Fmum or Tn-Ln To Run. Pnornnrr sou), mm 1-0 EITPOBCB
CONTRIBUTION.

81:0. 1479. When evicted purchaser may recover purchase-money.

1480. Remedy of judgment creditor thereupon.

1481. Contribution between owners of real property.

1482. Id.; when part owner redeems.

1483. Order of contribution.

1484. Contribution. how enforced by means of original judgment.
1485. Requisites to preserve the lien.

1486. Entry upon the docket.

§ 1479. The purchaser of real property, sold by virtue
of an execution, his heir, devisee, grantee, or assignee, who
is evicted from the possession thereof, or against whom
judgment is rendered, in an action to recover the same, may
recover the purchase-money, With interest, from the person
for Whose benefit the property Was sold, where the judgment was rendered, or the eviction occurred, in consequence,
either:

1. Of any irregularity in the proceedings concerning the
sale; or

2. Of the judgment, upon which the execution was issued,
being vacated or reversed, or set aside for irregulari , or
error in fact.

§ 1480. Where final judgment is rendered, against the
defendant, in an action specified in subdivision first of the
last section, the judgment, by virtue of which the sale was
made, remains, in his favor, valid and effectual against the
judgment debtor therein, his executor, administrator, heir
or devisee, for the purpose of collecting the sum paid on
the sale, With interest. He may accordingly have a further
execution upon that judgment; but the execution does not
affect a purchaser in good faith, or an encumbrancer by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, Whose title or whose encumbrance accrued, before the actual levy thereof.

§ 1481. Where the real property of two or more persons
is liable to satisfy a judgment, and the Whole of the judgment, or more than a due proportion thereof, has been collected, by a sale of the real property of one or more of
them, by virtue of an execution issued upon the judgment;
the person so aggrieved, or his executor or administrator,
may maintain an action, to compel a just and equal contribution by all the persons, Whose real property ought to
contribute to the satisfaction of the judgment.

§ 1482. Where the heir, devisee, or grantee, of a judgment
debtor, having an absolute title to a distinct parcel of real
property, sold by virtue of an execution, redeems, as prescribed in section 1458 of this act, the property sold, or any
pa.rt or parts thereof separately sold, which include his
property; he may, in like manner, maintain an action, to
compel a just and equal contribution by those, who own
the residue of the property thus redeemed.

§ 1483. Where an action is brought, as prescribed in the
last two sections, the real property is liable to contribution
in the following order:

1. If it comprises diiferent undivided shares or distinct
parcels, which have been conveyed by the judgment debtor,
they are liable in succession, commencing with the portion
last conveyed.

2. If it comprises diiferent undivided shares or distinct
parcels, which have been sold by virtue of two or more
executions, they are liable in succession, commencing with
the portion sold under the last and youngest judgment.

3. If it comprises different undivided shares or distinct
parcels, some of which have been conveyed by the judgment
debtor, and some of which have been sold by virtue of one
or more executions, they are respectively liable in succession, according to the order prescribed in the nrst and second subdivisions of this section.

§ 1484. For the purpose of enforcing contribution, as
prescribed in the last section, the court, in which the action
is brought, may, and in a proper case, must, permit the
plaintiii.’ to use the original judgment, and to collect, by an
execution issued thereupon, out of any real property subject to the lieu thereof, the sum which ought to be contributed by that property. For that purpose, the lieu of
the original judgment, upon that real property, when
preserved, as prescribed in the next section, continues, for
the term prescribed in sections 1251 and 1255 of this
act, to the extent of the sum, which ought to be so contributed, notwithstanding the payment made by the party
seeking contribution.

§ 1485. The lien of the original judgment may be preserved, as prescribed in the last section, by filing, in the
clerk’s office of the county where the real property is situated, within twenty days after the payment, for which contribution is claimed, an affidavit, in behalf of the person

aggrieved, stating the sum paid, and his claim to use the
judgment for the reimbursement thereof, with a notice,
requiring the clerk to make the entries specified in the next section. But the lien is not preserved, as against a grantee
or mortgagee in good faith, for a valuable consideration,
without notice, and before the entries are actually made.

§ 1486. On filing the affidavit and notice, the clerk must
make, upon the docket of the judgment, an entry, stating
the sum paid, and that the judgment is claimed to be a
hen to that amount. Where it is desired to preserve the
lien, upon property situated in two or more counties, a
similar affidavit and notice must be filed with, and a similar entry made by, the clerk of each county.

TITLE III.
Eiwcuz‘/ion against the person.

830. 1487. In what cases execution may be issued against the potion.
1488. Id. ; against a woman.
1489. When execution against property must be first issued.
1490. Simultaneous executions not allowed against property and person.
1491. Id.; when debtor has been taken.

1492. New execution may issue after escape.
1493. Id. ; when debtor dies charged in execution.

1494. Id.; when creditor discharges debtor after thirty days.
1495. New execution not to be enforced against real property sold, etc.

§ 1487. Where a judgment can be enforced by execution,
as prescribed in section 1240 of this act, an execution,
against the person of the judgment debtor, may be issued
thereupon, subject to the exception specified in the next section, in either of the following cases: A

1. Where the plaintiffs right to arrest the defendant
depends upon the nature of the action.

2. In any other case, where an order of arrest has been
granted and executed in the action, and has not been
vacated.

§ 1488. But an execution cannot be issued against the
person of a Woman, unless an order of arrest has been
granted and executed in the action, and has not been

vacated.

§ 1489. Unless the judgment debtor is actually coniined,
Without having been admitted to the liberties of the 
by virtue of an execution against his person, issued in
another action, or of an order of arrest or a surrender by
his bail, in the same action, an execution against his person
cannot be issued, until an execution against his property
has been returned, Wholly or partly unsatisfied If he is a
resident of the State, the execution against his property
must have been issued to the county Where he resides.

§ 1490. An execution against the person of the judgment
debtor cannot be issued, Without leave of the court, While
an execution against his property, issued in the same action,
remains unreturned; and an execution against his property
cannot be issued, Without leave of the court, While an
execution against his person, issued in the same action,

remains unreturned.

§ 1491. Where a. judgment debtor has been taken, and
remains in custody, by virtue of an execution against his
person, another execution cannot be issued, in the same
action, against his person or his property, except in a case
specially prescribed by law.

I

§ 1492. If a judgment debtor escapes, after having been
taken, by virtue of an execution against his person, he may
be retaken, by virtue of a new execution against his person;
or an execution against his property may be issued, as if the
execution, by virtue of which he Was taken, had been

returned, Without his having been taken. ,

§ 1493. Where a judgment debtor, Who has been taken
by virtue of an execution against his person, dies While in

custody, a new execution against his property may be issued,
as if the execution, by virtue of which he was taken, had
been returned without his having been taken.

§ 1494. At any time after a judgment debtor has remained
in custody, by virtue of an execution against his person, for
the space of thirty days, the judgment creditor may serve
upon the sheriff .a written notice, requiring him to discharge
the judgment debtor from custody, by virtue of the execution. Whereupon the sheriff must discharge the judgment
debtor, and return the execution accordingly. After service
of such a notice, another execution, against the person of the
judgment debtor, cannot be issued upon the judgment; but
after his discharge, the judgment creditor may otherwise
enforce the judgment, as if the execution, from which he
was discharged, had been returned, without his having been

taken.

§ 1495. A new execution against property, issued in a
case specified in the last two sections, cannot be enforced
against an interest in real property, including a chattel real,
which was purchased, in good faith, from the judgment
debtor, after the recovery of the judgment upon which it is
issued; or which was sold by virtue of an execution, issued
upon a previous or subsequent judgment.


