AN ACT

To Establish a Code of Civil Procednre._

Tlu People of the State of JV’ew- York, r;-presented in Senate and
Jlrrcmbly, do enact as follows : I

PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS.

§ 1. This act shall be known as the Code of Civil Procedure of the State of Ne[w-York.

§ 2. This Code is divided into four parts:

The first relates to the courts of justice The second relates to civil actions: \

The third relates to special proceedings of a civil nature:

The fourth relates to evidence. ,

§ 3. The rule of the common law, that statutes in derogation
thereof are to be strictly construed, has no application to this
Code. The Code establishes the law of this State, respecting the
subjects to which it relates; and its provisions, and all proceedings under it, are to be liberally construed, with a View to .promote its objects, and to assist the parties in obtaining justice.

§ 4. No part of this code is retroactive, unless expressly so declared. _ .
§ 5. Judicial remedies are such as are administered by the

courts of justice, or by judicial officers empowered for that purpose, by the constitution and statutes of this state.
§ 6. These remedies are divided into two classes:

1. Actions: and

2. Special proceedings.

§ 7. An action is an ordinary proceeding in a court of justice,
by which one party prosecutes another, for the enforcement or
protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a wrong, or the
punishment of a public offense.

§ 8. Every other remedy is a special proceeding.

§ 9. Actions are of two kinds:

1. Civil: and
2. Criminal.
§ 10. A civil action arises out of,

1. An obligation:

2. An injury.

§ 11. An obligation is a legal duty, by which "one person is
bound to the performance of an act towards another, and arises

from,
1. The contract of the parties; or

2. The operation of law, as in the case of a statute or judgment.
§ 12. An injury is of two kinds:
1. To the person: and

2. To property. p

§ 13. An injury to property consists in depriving its owner of
the benefit of it, which is done by taking, withholding, deteriorating, or destroying it.

§ 14. Every other injury is an injury to the person.

§ 15. A criminal action arises out of an act or omission forbidden by law, and to which is annexed, upon conviction, either of

the following punishments:
1. Death:
2. Imprisonment:

3. Fine:
4. Removal from office: or

6. Disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor,

trust or profit under this state. .
§ 16. A civil action is prosecuted by one party against another

for the enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress or prevention of a wrong.
§ 17. A criminal action is prosecuted by the state, as a party against a person charged with a public offense, for the punishment thereof.

§ 18. When the violation of a right admits of both a civil and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one is not merged in the other.


CHAPTER I.

THE COURTS OF JUSTICE, IN GENERAL.

§ 19. The following are the courts of justice of this state:
1. The court for the trial of impeachments:

2. The court of appeals:

3. The supreme court
4. The superior court

, including the circuits:
of the city of New-York:

5. The court of common pleas of the city of New-York:
6. The court of oyer and terminer: ‘

7. The county courts:
8. The surrogates’ courts:

9. The courts of sessions:
10. The city courts of the cities of Albany, Brooklyn, Buffalo, Hudson, Oswego, Troy and Utica:

11. The justices’ court

81

12. The marine court of the city of New-York :

13. The police courts:
14. The courts of conciliation.

<2
and policecourts are

within the 8
of justices of the peace an

§ 20. These courts are courts of record; except that the justideemed inferior courts not of record

ection of the constitution providing for the removal

d judges or justices of inferior conrt3

not of record, and their clerks, by such county, city or state
courts as may be prescribed by law, but for no other purpose.

CHAPTER II.

rm: connr 1-‘on rim‘. -rnrar. or mpnacnuarrrs.

§ 21. The court for the trial of impeachments has power to try

impeachments, when presented by the assembly, of all civil officers of the state, except justices of the peace, justices of justices’

courts, police justices, and their clerks, for willful and corrupt
misconduct in office. \
§ 22. The court is composed of the president of the senate, the

senators, ora majority of them, and the judges of the court of
appeals, or a majority of them. But on the trial of an impeachment against the governor, the lieutenant-governor cannot act as
a member of the court.

§ 23. The president of the senate, or in case of his impeachment, death or absence, the chief judge of the court of appeals,
or in the absence of both, such other member as the court may

'elect, is the presiding judge of the court.

§ 24. The clerk and oiiicers of the Senate, are the clerkand
othcers of the court for the trial of impeachments.

§ 25. There are no ptated terms of this court; but upon the delivery of an impeachment from\ the assembly, the president of
the senate must cause the court to be summoned to meet at the
capitol in the city of Albany, on a day not less than thirty nor
more than sixty days from the day of the delivery of the articles
of impeachment. I

§ 26. At the time and place appointed, and before the court
proceeds to act on the impeachment, the clerk must administer to
the presidingjudge, and the presiding judge to each of the members of the court then present, an oath or atiirmation truly and
impartially to hear, try and determine the impeachment; and no
member of the court can act or vote upon the impeachment, or

my question arising thereon, without having taken such oath or
Iilirmation.

§ 27. When the court is held during the recess of _the legislature, the president of the senate, the senators, and-the clerk and
officers of the court are entitled to the same compensation tbr

their attendance thereon, and for traveling to and from the place
where it is held, as is allowed them at a meeting of the senate.

CHAPTER III.

THE COURT OF APPEALS.

§ 28. The court of appeals has exclusive jurisdiction to review,
upon appeal, every actual determination hereafter made, at a
general term, by the supreme court, by the superior court or court
of common pleas of the city of New-York, in the following
cases, and no other;

1. In a judgment in an action commenced therein, or brought
there from another court; and upon the appeal from that j udg—
ment, to review any intermediate order involving the merits,and
necessarily affecting the judgment:

2. In an order aifecting a substantial right, made in such action,
when such order in effect determines the action, and prevents a
«judgment, from which an appeal might be taken:

3. In a final order, affecting a substantial right, made upon a

summary application in an action, after judgment:

4. In a judgment in a special proceeding:

5. In an orderaifectiug a substantial right, made in aspecial
proceeding, when such order in effect determines the proceeding
and prevents a judgment from which an appeal might be taken.
But the appeal given by this section is not allowed in an action
originally commenced in a justice’s court, or in the marine court
of the city of New-York.

§ 29. In addition to the jurisdiction conferred by the last section, this court has jurisdiction of all cases pending in the late
court for the correction of errors, on the first Monday of July,
1847, and on that day transferred to this court by the constitution, and now remaining undetermined.
§ 30. This court may reverse, atiirm, or modify the judgment

or order appealed from in whole or in part, and as to any or all
of the parties; and its judgment must be remitted to the court

below, to be enforced according to law.
§ 31. This court is composed of eight judges, of whom four
are elected by the electors of the state for eight years, and four

gelected from the judges of the supreme court as prescribed by

special statutes.

§ 32. The judge elected by the electors of the state, and having
the shortest time to serve, is for the time being the chief judge.

§ 33. The presence of six judges is necessary for the transaction of business; but any one or inore of the judges may adjourn

the court from day to day for the term, with the same eifect as if
all were present. .
§ 34. The concurrence of live judges is necessary, to pronounce
a judgment. 1! live do not concur, the case must be reheard.
But no more than two rehearings shall be heard, and upon the
second rehearing, dve judges do not concur, the judgment shall
he affirmed. ‘ '
§ 35. There are four terms in each year, for the hearing of
appeals, to be held at the capitol in the city of Albany, and to
commence on the first Tuesday of January, the. fourth Tuesday
of March, the third Tuesday of June, and the last Tuesday of
September, and to continue. as long as the public interests may
require. Additional terms may also be held at the same place by
order of the court. ’

CHAPTER. IV.

THE SUPEIKB (XJUBT, INCLUDING THE CIRCUIT‘

§ 36. All rules of the common law and all statutes now in
force, conferring or deilning the jurisdiction of the supreme court,
In abrogated and repealed, and it has no other jurisdiction than
91!! prescribed in the next five sections. But the repeal conhired in this section does not aifect its jurisdiction of actions or

Pmedings now pending, or heretofore prosecuted or had there' ,nor does it affect any judgment or order already made,or proceeding already taken.

§ 37. The jurisdiction of this court is of two kinds:

1. Original: and

9- Appellate.

§ 38. Its original jurisdiction‘ extends to all civil actions and
‘P061111 proceedings, of which exclusive jurisdiction is not confmed upon another court or officer, by the constitution or by
this code. '

§ 39. Its appellate jurisdiction extends to reviewing, upon apPN1, every actual determination, in- the following cases:

1. In a line! judgment of a county or city court, in a civil action commenced therein, or brought there from another court;

and upon the appeal from that judgment, to review any intermediate order involving the merits and necessarily aifecting the
judgment:

2. In an intermediate order aifecting a substantial right made
in such action, involving the construction of the constitution or
of a provision of this code:

8. In a final order, aifecting a substantial right, made by a
county or city court, in a special proceeding or upon a summary
application in an action, after judgment:

4. In a judgment of a court of byer and terminer, a court of
sessions, or a city court, in a criminal action:

5. In a final order made by either of the courts mentioned in
the last subdivision, atfecting a substantial right, made in a special proceeding of a criminal nature:

6. In an order or judgment of a surrogate’s court, in the cases
prescribed by statute:

7. In a final order or decision of a judicial officer, or of an odl-»
cer or body invested with powers of a judicial nature, in the cases
prescribed in this code.

§ 40. In addition to the jurisdiction conferred by the last two sections, this court has the jurisdiction heretofore transferred to it:

1. Of all suits and proceedings now undetermined, and which
were pending on the first Monday of July, 1847, in the late supreme court and court of chancery, and in the late courts of common pleas,‘ except in suits originally commenced in justim’
courts: '

2. To enforce the orders, judgments and decrees of these courts; '
rendered before that day, or to exercise such other powers in respect thereto, as it might exercise, if they had been made or randered by this court.

§ 41. This court has also jurisdiction of all civil actions now
undetermined, and which were pending in the late mayor’s court
of the city of Rochester on the thirtieth day of April, 1349, and ot

all proceedings incident to judgments rendered in that court, in
those actions, on or before that day.
§ 42. The State is divided into eight judicial districts, of which

the city of New~York is the first, the others being created by speoial statute; in the drst of which there are in judges of this
gout, and in each of the others four.

§ 43. This court is distributed into general and special terms
and circuit courts; the latter of which are in this code denominated circuits. “

§ 44. The general terms are devoted to the hearing and determination, '

1. Oicases now pending in this court for review, in actions or
special proceedings commenced therein or brought there from
another court, or transferred from the late supreme court or court
of chancery,as_ provided in section 43 :

2. Of cases hereafter brought into this court for review, and
of appeals from a single judge of this court, from referees as provided in this e de: l

3. Ofcontroversies submitted without action, as provided in
this code:

4. Oi’ questions incidental to the hearing and determination of
the cases mentioned in this section:

5. Of such other questions as are prescribed by other provisions of this code.

§ 45. The special terms are devoted,

1. To the hearing and determination of applications, for j udg-.

meat upon failure to answer, and upon complaint and answer :

2. To the hearing and determination of all actions or special
Pwceedings now pending in this court, except for review or upon
an issue of fact triable by jury :1

3. To the trial of issues of fact triable by the court and issues
of law now pending, or hereafter joined, in actions or special proeeedings in this court: ‘ '

. 4. To the hearing and determination of motions in those actions or special proceedings in this court.

5. To the hearing and determination of applications for judgment, upon special verdicts:

6. To the hearing and determination of cases reserved for argument or further consideration :

7 To the hearing and determination of all other questions, not
“Signed to the general terms or circuits, exclusively.

§ 46. The circuits are devoted to the trial, .

1. 01‘ issues of fact, now pending or hereafter joined, in actions
0? proceedings in this court: ‘

2. Of all other questions of fact, ordered by the court to be
‘tried by ajury. '

§ 47. A general term must be held by _at least three of the
judges: and a special term or circuit may be held by one or more

of them.

§ 48. The general and special terms and circuits may be held

by the judges elected in any of the judicial districts.

§ 49. One of the judges of the first class elected in each district“, unless he be a judge of the court of appeals, or elected or
appointed to fill a vacancy, or in either of those events, one of
the judges of the second class‘, must preside at a general term.

§ 50. If a presiding judge do,not attend,_any three of the

judges present may, by an order entered upon the minutes, designate one of their number, to preside during the absence of a pre~
siding judge.

§ 51. The concurrence of a majority of the judges holding a

general term, is necessary to pronounce a judgment. If amajority do not concur, the case must be reheard.

§ 52. The general term and circuits must be held -as long as, in
the opinion of the judge or judges holding them, the public interests require. *

§ 53. The judge holding a circuit must at the same time hold
a special term, and continue it until the adjournment of the circuit, or longer, if the public interests require ; or he may adjourn
it to anpther time and place in the county.

§ 54. In addition to these special terms, the court ‘is always
open, before each of the judges, for the hearing of motions,applications for judgment upon failure to answer, and upon complaint
and answer, and tor the trial of issues of law. But a judge who
appoints for that purpose a certain day in each week when not

sitting at a general term or circuit, is not required to hear .a contested motion or trial at any other time. p _

§ 55. Thejudges must also at all reasonable times, when not
engaged in holding court, transact such other business as may be
done out of court. Every proceeding commenced before one of
thejudges may be continued before anothe1:,with the same effect as if commenced before him.

§ 56. The times and places of holding the general and special‘
terms and circuits,*shall continue as at present prescribed, until
the thirty-first day of December, 1853, inclusive, and the judges
of each district shall, at least one month before the expiration of ’
that time, appoint the times and places of holding these courts
for the years, commencing on the first day of January, 1854, and
so on for every two succeeding years. 

§ 57. There must be as many general terms annually, not less

than four in each judicial district, and as many special terms and
circuits annually, in each county, as are suiiicient for the transaction of the business.
§ 58. There must be a general session of the judges of the supreme court, with the judges of the superior court and court of

common pleas of the city of New-York, at the capitol in the city _
of Albany, on the first Monday of August, 1854, and on the first
Monday of August in every second year thereafter, at which session the judges shall make such general rules as may be necessary,.
pursuant to section 186. '

§ 59. The governor, whenever in his opinion the public inter- .
cats require, may appoint extraordinary general and special terms
and circuits, and designate the judges by whom -they are to be
held, who shall hold them accordingly.

§ 60. The place appointed ‘in each of the counties, for holding .

the general and special terms and circuits, must be that designated by statute for holding county or circuit courts. If a room

for holding the-court in such place be not provided by the supervisors, it may be for that purpose by the sheriii‘, as provided by section 200.

§ 61. In case of the inability, for any cause, of a judge assigned

for that purpose, to hold a special term or circuit, or sit at a general term, any other judge may do so; and the governor may, if

necessary, assign the judge for that purpose, who must do so _

accordingly.

§ 62. Every appointment’ made as provided in sections 58 and
59, must be immediately transmitted to the secretary of state,
who must cause it to be published in the state paper, at least once

in each week, for three weelts, before the holding of a court in

pursuance thereof. The expense of the publication is payable
out of the treasury of the state. . '

CHAPTER V.

I

THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE CITY OF NEVFYORK.

§ 63. The court known as the superior court of the city of

New-York, is continued, with the jurisdiction conferred by°the
next five sections, and no other. But nothing contained in this section affects its jurisdiction of actions or proceedings, now pend-ing therein, nor does it affect any judgment or order already
made, nor any proceeding already taken. '

§ 64. This court has jurisdiction of the following actions and
proceedings, when the cause thereof arises or the subject thereof
-is situated in the city of New-York: «

1. For\ the recovery of real property, or‘ of an estate or interest therein, or for the determination in any form, of such right or

interest, and for injuries to real property:

2. For the partition. of real property:
3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property:

4. For the recovery of personalproperty, distrained for any
cause:

5. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by
-statute: - ~

6. Against a public officer or person specially appointed to
execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of f his office,
or against a person who by his command or in his aid, does any;thing touching the duties of the oiiice:

7. For the ad measurement of dower in real property:

.8. For the sale of the real property of an infant:

9. To compel a specific performance, by an infant heir or other
person, of a contract respecting real property, made by a person
who has died before the performance thereof : i

10. For the mortgage or sale, on the application of adreligious
corporation, of its real property, and the appropriation‘ of the

proceeds thereof. ,
§ 65. This court has jurisdiction, also, in all other civil actions,

whether the cause of action arise, or the subject of the action be

situated in the city of New-York, or not,

1 . In an action arising on contract, when one or more of several
defendants reside in that city, or occupy a tenement therein for
the transaction of their ordinary business:

2. In an action for any other cause, when all the defendants
reside in that city, or occupy a tenement therein for the transaction of their ordinary business, or are personally served with the

summons in that city :
3. In an action arising on contract, when one or more of several
defendants jointly liable thereon reside in, or are personally

served with the summons, or occupy a tenement for the transaction of their ordinary business in that city:
4. In an action arising on contract, when all the defendants»

reside out of the state, but one or more of them has property in
that city : I

5. When the defendant is a corporation created under the laws
of this state, and transacts its generalbusiness, or keeps an ohice,
or has an agency established for the transaction of business in the
city of New-York, or is established by law therein: or

6. When the defendant is a corporation, created by or under
the laws of another state, government or country, and has property in the city of New-York, or an agency established therein,
and the action is for the recovery ‘of money upon a cause of
action arising in that city. ' '

§ 66. The jurisdiction of this court also extends to such civil
suits in the supreme court, commenced before the first day of
July, 1848, and at issue on and before the first day of July,

1849, as are now transferredto this court pursuant to statute. I
§ 67. There are six judges of this court, elected by the electors

of the city and county of New-York, who are respectively
known as the chief justice and associate judges of the superior
court of the city of New-York. 

§ 68. The present chief justice shall continue to act as such,
until his office shall expire or become vacant. In either of these
events, the judges then in oiiicea shall, by an order entered upon
the minutes, designate one of their number as chief justice, who
shall act as such until his office shall expire or become vacant;
and so on, from time to time, as often as the office of the judge
designated as chief’ justice shall expire or become vacant.

§ 69. This court is distributed into general, special and trial

terms.

§ 70. The general terms are devoted to the hearing and determination, \

1. Of appeals now pending or hereafter brought in actions in
this court, as provided in this code:

2. Of cases brought to the supreme court for review, and transferred from a general term thereof, as provided in section 66.

3. Of cases now pending, for the review of judgments of the
-marine court hf the city of New-York, or of the justices’ courts
in that city:

4. Of controversies submitted without action, as provided in
this code:   '

6. Of questions incidental to the hearing and determination of
the cases mentioned in this section:

6. Of issues of law, and motions for new trials, in suits pending in this court, on the first day of July, 1848.

7. Of such other questions as are prescribed by the provisions
of this code.

§ 71. The special terms are devoted,

1. To the hearing and determination of applications for judgment upon failure to answer ; ‘and upon complaint and answer:

2. To the hearing and determination of cases transferred by the
supreme court at a general tdrm, as provided in section 66, except
those pending for review or _upon an issue of fact triafile by a jury :

_3. To the hearing and determination of cases transferred by
the supreme court at a special term, as provided in section 66:

4. To the trial of issues of fact triable by-the court, and of issue!
of law, now pending or hereafter joined, in actions commenced in
this court :‘

6. To the hearing and determination of applications. for judgment upon special verdicts: '

6. To» the «hearing and determination of cases reserved forum
gument or further consideration: '

7. To the hearing and determination of motions, in actions: or
proceedings in this court: , - '

8. To the hearing and determination of all other questions not
assigned to the general or trial terms, exclusively.

§ 72. The trial terms are devoted to the trial,

1. Of issues of fact now pending or hereafter joined in actions

in this court.

2. Of questions of fact in those actions, or in any other proceeding, which are ordered by this court to be tried by a jury.

§ 73. The general terms must be held by at least two, and the
special and trial terms by one only, of the judges.

§ 74. The chief justice, if he be present, must preside at a general term. If he be not present, the judges holding the term may
designate one of their number to preside, and he shall preside accordingly during the absence of the chief j ustice. ‘
§ 75. The concurrence of a majority of the judges holding a
general term is necessary to pronounce a judgment. If a majority

do not concur, the case must be reheard.
§ 76. As many general, special. and trial terms as the court

may appoint, may be held in each year, concurrently or other}
wise. They must be held at the city hall in the city of NewYork.

CHAPTER VT.

THE COURT OF COMMON PLEA8 OF THE CITY OF‘ NEW°YOBK.

§ 77. The court known as the court of common pleas for the
city and county of New-York, is continued, with the jurisdiction conferred by the next three sections, and no other; and is
denominated the court of common pleas of the city of N ew-York.
But nothing contained in this section affects its jurisdiction of actions or proceedings now pending therein, nor does it afect any
judgment or order already made, or proceeding already taken.

§ 78. This court has jurisdiction, concurrently with the superior court of the city of New-York, of the actions and proceedings
mentioned in sections 64 and 65.

§ 79. This court has jurisdiction, also, of the following procecdings :

1. To remit lines and forfeited recognizances, in the cases and
manner provided in this code; and to continue and discharge the
docket of judgments entered upon recognizances:

2. To exercise the powers conferred upon it by statutes, in respect to liens filed in the office of the county clerk, and to control,
amend or discharge the same: ‘

3. Of all other special proceedings, in the city and county of
New-York, of which the county courts have juridiction in their
counties: ' r

‘ .

4. To exercise the powers conferred upon it by other provisions
of this code. ' ,

§ 80. This court has also the exclusive power to review, in the
first instance, a judgment rendered by the marine court of the
city of N ew-York, or by a justice’s court in that city.

§ 81. The three judges of this court, elected as such, by the
electors of the city and éounty of New York, and now in office,
and their successors, are the only judges of this court. They
shall be known as the chief justice and associate judges of the

court of common pleas of the city of N ew—York.

§ 82. The present first judge shall be the chief justice, untilhis
office shall expire or become vacant. In‘ either of these events,
the judges then in oilice shall, ‘by an order entered upon the minutes, designate one of theirnumber as chief justice, who shall act
as such until his office shall expire or become vacant; and so on,
from time to time, as often as the office of the judge designated as
chief justice shall expire or become vacant.

§ 83. This court is distributed into general, special and trial
terms. ' .

§ 84. The general terms are devoted to the hearing and determination,

1. Of appeals now pending or hereafter brought in actions in
this court, as provided in this code:

2. Of appeals now pending therein or hereafter brought for the
review of judgments of T the marine court of the city of NewYork, or of the justices’ courts in that aity : '

3. Of controversies submitted without action, as provided in
this code.

4. Of ‘questions incidental to the hearing and determination of
the cases mentioned in this section:

5. Of issues of law and motions for new trials in suits pending
in this court, on the iiist day of July, 1848 :

§ 85. The special terms are devoted,

1. To the hearing and determination of applications for judgment upon failure to answer, and upon complaint and answer:

2. To the trial of issues of fact triable by the court, and of issues of law, now pending or hereafter joined, in actions or proO I I |
ceedmgs commenced in this court:

3. To the hearing and determination of motions in those actions
or proceedings:

4: To the hearing and determination of applications for judgment upon special verdicts:

5. To the hearing and determination of cases reserved for argumentor further consideration.

6. To all other questions not assigned to the general or trial
terms exclusively. ’

§ 86. The trial terms are devoted to the trial,

1. Of issues of fact now pending or hereafter joined in actions
in this court :

2. Of questions of fact in thoseactions, or in any other proceeding, ordered by this court to be tried by a jury. — '

§ 87. The general terms must be held by at least two, and the
special and trial terms by one only, of the judges,

§ 88. The chief justice, if he be present, must preside at a general term. If he be not present, the judges holding the term may

designate one of their number to preside, and he shall preside
accordingly, during the absence of the chief justice.

§ 89. The concurrence of a majority of the judges holding a
general term is necessary to pronounce a judgment. If a majority do not concur, the case must be reheard.
§ 90. As many general, special and trial terms as the court

may appoint, may be held in each year, concurrently, or otherwise. They must be held.

CHAPTER VII.

THE COURT! OF OYEB AND TERMINEB.

§ 91. There is in each of the counties of this State (except,
that for this purpose, Fulton and Hamilton are deemed one county) a court, denominated the court of oyer and terminer, with the
jurisdiction conferred by the next three sections, and no other.
But nothing contained in this section, aifects its jurisdiction in
actions or proceeding now pending therein; nor doesit afect any

judgment or order already made, or proceedipg already taken.

§ 92. The court of oyer and terminer has jurisdiction.

1. To inquire, by the intervention of a grand jury, of all publicoiences committed or triable in the county:

2. To try and determine any indictment found therein, or
which may have been found.at the court of sessions of the county, or at a city court within the county, for an offense punishable

with death:

A 3. To try and determine any indictment which may have been
found at any of the courts mentioned in the second subdivision of
this section, for an offense not punishable with death, and which

may be sent or'removed to the court of oyer and terminer, if in
the opinion of that court, it be proper to be tried therein.

4. To send any indictment found therein, for an oifence not

punishable with death, or to send back any indictment which may
have been sent or removed to that court, to the court of sessions

of the county, or a city court therein, when in -the opinion of the
court ofoyer and terminer, the same should not be tried in that
court. ,

5. To inquire into the cause of the detention of persons impri~

soned inthe jail of the county, and make an order for their recommitment or discharge, or otherwise, according to law:

6. To exercise the powers conferred upon it, by the code of
criminal procedure.
§ 93. In addition to the jurisdiction conferred by the last section, jurisdiction was transferred to the courts of oyer and terminerin their respective counties, on the first Monday of July, 1847;

of all indictments and proceedings then pending in thelate courts
of oyer and terminer; and also of all indictments and proceedings then pending in the late courts of general sessions of the
peace, except in the. city of New-York, and except in cases of
which the courts of sessions may take cognizance as provided in section 112.

§ 94. Jurisdiction was likewise transferred to this court, in
the county of Monroe, on the thirtieth day of April, 1849, of all
criminal actions and proceedings then pending in the late mayor’s
court of the city of Rochester, and of all proceedings incident to
judgments rendered in that court in those actions and proceedings, on or before that day_.

§ 95. This court (except in the city and county of New-York)

must be held by a judge of the supreme court, as the presiding
judge, together with the county judge, and two justices of the
sessions designated, as prescribed by other statutes, or by any two

of those omeers. If the justices of the sessions, or either of them,
beabsent at a term of the court of oyer and terminer, or the
oilice of those justices or either of them be vacant, the county
judge may supply the vacancy or deficiency for the term, by
designating the requisite number to form the court, from the justices of the peace of the county.

§ 96. In the city and county of New-York, the court of oyer
and tet-miner must be held by a judge of the supreme court, as

the presiding judge, together with two of the aldermen of the
city of New-York, designated as the common council may by
ordinance prescribe.

§ 97. The court of oyer and terminer must be held at the

same place and commenced on the same day with the circuit
in the county, and must be continued as long as the public interests require, whether the circuit remain in session or not.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE GDUNTY COURTS.

§ 98. There is in each of the counties of thisstate, except the
city and county of New-York, a county court, with the jurisdiction conferred by the next two sections, and no other. But nothing contained in this section atfects its jurisdiction in actions or
proceedings now pending therein ; nor does it a&'ect any judgment
or order already made, or proceeding already taken.

§ 99. The county court has jurisdiction in the following special cases: « ' .

1. Civil actions in which the relief demanded. is the recovery
of a sum of money not exceeding $500, or the recovery of the
possession of personal property not exceeding in value 8500, and

in which all the defendants are residents of the county in which
the action is brought at the time of its commencement, subject to
the right of the supreme court upon special motion for good
cause shown to remove any such action to the supreme court
before trial :

2. The exclusive power to review, in the first instance, a judgment rendered in a civil action, by a justices’ court in the county
or by a justice court in cities: Q ' _

3. For the foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage, and the

sale of mortgaged premises situated in the county, and the collection of any deficiency on the mortgage remaining unpaid after

the sale of the mortgaged premises:

4. For the partition of real property situated in the county:

5. For the admeasurement of dower in real property situated
in the county :

6. For the sale, mortgage, or ‘other disposition of the real
property of an infant or insane person, when the property is

situated in the county : g

7. To compel a specific performance by an infant heir, or other
person, of a contract respecting real property situated in the
county, made by a party who has died before the performance
thereof:

8. For the mortgage or sale, on the application of a religious
corporation, of its real property situated in the county, and the
appropriation of the proceeds thereof:

9. To enforce the judgments of the late court of common pleas
of the county, in suits originally commenced in justices’ courts,
or to exercise such other powers in respect thereto as it might

- exercise, if they had been rendered by this court:

10. To exercise the powers vested in it by this code, over

judgments rendered by justices’ courts, of which transcripts shall
have been filed with the county clerk.

11. To exercise the powers conferred by statute upon the late
court of common pleas of the county, or the judges thereof, or
any of them, respecting ferries, fisheries, turnpike roads, wrecks,
physicians‘, and all liberties, the removal of occupants from state
lands, the lay_ing out of railroads through Indian lands, and upon
appeal from the determination of commissioners of highways;
and to prescribe the manner of exercising such jurisdiction when
the provisions of those statutes are inconsistent with the organization of the county court.

12. To remit fines and forfeited recognizances, in the cases and
manner provided in this code.

13. To exercise the powers conferred upon it by other provisions of this code. But the first subdivision of this section does
not apply to the county courts of the counties of Kings and
Erie, and any action or proceeding pending in a county court,

in which the county judge is for any cause incapable of acting,
may be transferred by the county court to the supreme court,
and thereupon the papers on file in the county court shall be
transmitted to the supreme court in the same district, which shall
thenceforth have jurisdiction of such action or proceeding.

§ 100. In addition to the jurisdiction mentioned in the last section, jurisdiction was transferred to the county court on the
urst Monday of July, 1847.

1. Of proceedings then pending in the‘ late court of common
pleas of the county, in suits originally commenced in justices’
courts. ,

2. To enforce the orders and judgments of the late court of

common pleas of the county, rendered before that day, or to exercise such other powers in respect thereto as it might exercise if

they had been made or rendered by this court.

§ 101. The county court is held by the county judge, elected‘

in the county, or in ‘case of his inability or a vacancy in his ofuce, by the surrogate, or in a county where there is a special

county judge, by that officer.

§ 102. The county court is always open for the transaction of any
business for which no notice is required to be given to an appearing party. At least two terms in each county, for the trial of
issues of law or fact, and as many more as the county judge may
appoint, shall be held in each year, at the places in the counties
respectively designated by statute for holding county or circuit
courts, on such days as the county judge may from time to time»
appoint, and may continue as long as the court deem necessary.
Notice of such appointment must be published in the State paper
at least four weeks before term the first, and also in a newspaper,
if any, printed in the county, and so many of such toms as the
county judge may designate appointed therein in the notice, may
be held for the trial of issues of fact and the hearing and decision of motions and other proceedings at which no jury shall be

required to attend. ,
CHAPTER IX.

-ran sunaoeuns’ counrs.

§ 103. There is in each county a surrogate’s court, with the
jurisdiction conferred by the next three sections, and no other.

But nothing contained in this section affects its jurisdiction of
proceedings now pending therein; nor does it affect any judgment or order already made, or proceeding already taken.

§ 104. The surrogates court has exclusive jurisdiction, in the
first instance, in the county, to take proof of wills.

1. When the testator, at or immediately before his death, was
an inhabitant of the county, in whatever place he may have
died. 2. When the testator, not being an inhabitant of this State,
shall have died in the county, leaving assets therein. /

3. When the testator, not being an inhabitant of this State,
shall have died out of the State, leaving assets in the county.

4. When the testator, not being an inhabitantof this State,
shall have died out of the State, not leaving assets therein, but

where assets thereafter come into the county.

5. When real property, devised by the testator, is situated in
the county, and no other surrogate’s court has gained jurisdiction, under either of the preceding subdivisions of this section.

§ 105. The surrogates court has jurisdiction, also,

1. To take proof of a will relating to real property situated in
the county, when the testator shall have died‘ out of this State,
not being an inhabitant thereof, and not leaving assets therein.

2. To grant and revoke letters testamentary and of adminis-'

tration.

3. To direct and control «the conduct, and settle the accounts
of executorsand administrators.

4. To enforce the payment of debts and. legacies, and the distribution~ot' the estates of intestates. ‘
. . 5. To order the sale and disposal of the real property of de‘ ceased persons.

6. To appoint and remove guardimis, to direct and. control
their conduct, and to settle their accounts. __

7. To take the care and custody of the person and estate of an
insane person or habitual drunkard residing in the county, and
to appoint and remove committees, to direct and control their
conduct, and to settle their accounts in any other case now or

hereafter prescribed by statute.
-8. To direct the admeasurement of dower.

9. To exercise the powers conferred upon it by other provisionsof this-code. . _

§ 106. The jurisdiction acquired by a surrogate’s court over a
matter or proceeding is exclusive of that of another surrogate’s
court, except when otherwise provided by this code. And when

a guardian is appointed or any other proceeding is commenced.
in the surrogate’s court of a particular county, all iurther pro- _

ceedings in respect to the same must be continued in that court.
§ 107. The surrogate’s court must be held by the surrogate, in

each county having a population exceeding forty thousand, in
which the Legislature have provided or may provide, for the

election of a separate officer to perform the duties of the oiiice of
surrogate. In every other county it must be held by the county
judge. _

§ 108. In case of the inability of the surrogate, or of a vacancy in his oiiice, the court must be held by the county judge, or if *

he be unable to act, or his office be vacant, by the special county
judge, in a county where there is such an ohicer. If there be_no

county judge or special county judge, or he be unable to act, it
must be held by the district attorney.
§ 109. The officer by whom a surrogate’s court is held, as anthorised by by thelast two sections, is in this code denominated '

the surrogate.

§ 110. The snrrogate’s court is at all times open for the transaction of business within its jurisdiction ; but it is the especialduty of the surrogate, to attend at his o&ice on Monday of each
week, and there hold a surrogate’s court.

CHAPTER X.

THE COURTS OF SESSIONS.

ARTICLE I.

ran COURTS 01-‘ SESSIONS, IN GENERAL.

§ 111. There is, in each of the counties of this State, a court, ‘

denominated a court of sessions, with the jurisdiction conferred:
by the next two articles, and no other; but nothing contained in
this section affects its jurisdiction in actions or proceeding: new

pending therein; nor does it affect any judgment or order already
made or proceeding already taken. ‘

ARTICLE II.

THI COURTS OF SESSIONS, OTHER THAN IN THE CITY AND COUNTY
NEW'YORK.

§ 112. The courts of sessions embraced in this article have
jurisdiction, '

1. To inquire, by the intervention of a grand jury, of all public
ofences committed or triable in the county :

2. To try and determine indictments found therein, or sent
thereto by the court of oyer and terminer of the county, for public offenses not punishable with death, or imprisonment for life.

3. To remove justices of the peace,,po1ice justices, and justices
ot justices’ courts of cities in their respective counties, and their
clerks, after due notice and an opportunity of being heard in
their defense, for causes to be stated in the order of removal:

4_. To hear and determine appeals from orders of justices of
the peace, under the provisions of the code of criminal procedure

respcting the support of’ bastards:

6. To examine into the circumstances of persons committed to
prison as parents of bastards, and to discharge them in the cases
provided by the code of criminal procedure :

6. To hear and determine complaints under the provisions of
the code of criminal procedure, respecting’ masters, apprentices
and servants: ,

7. To review the convictions of disorderly persons actually
imprisoned, and to execute the powers conferred and duties imposed by the code of criminal procedure in relation to those
persons: ~ _

8. To continue or discharge the recognizances, undertakings

and bonds of persons bound to keep the peace or to be of good behavior, or both ; and to inquire into and determine the complaints on which they were founded, as provided in the code of
criminal procedure : . V

9. Tocompel relatives of poor persons and committees of the
estates of insane persons, to support such persons in the cases and
in the manner prescribed by the code of criminal procedure:

10. To exercise the powers conferred by the code of criminal

procedure,'in relation to the estates of persons absconding and:
leaving their families chargeable to the public:

11. To exercise the powers conferred upon them by other pro-visions of this code, or of the code of criminal procedure.
§ 113. In addition to the jurisdiction conferred by the last seec tion, the courts have the jurisdiction which was tranferred to

and vested in them, in their respective counties, on the first Monday
of July, 1847, of all indictments and proceedings similar to those
mentioned in the last section, which were then pending in the latecourts of general sessions of the peace.

§ 114. When an indictment is found in one of these courts, for
an offense punishable with death or imprisonment for life, thecourt must send it to the court of oyer and terminer of the county.

§ 115. These courts may also send an indictment,found.therein»
and remaining undetermined, for an offense not punishable with
death, or imprisonment for life, to the next court ofoyer and terminer of the same county, to be determined according to law ;

but that court, if in_ its opinion the same is not proper to be tried
therein, may remit it back to the court by which it was sent,

which must proceed thereon as if it had remained there.
§ 116. These courts must be held by the county judge together

with two justices of the sessions, designated as provided by other
statutes. If the justices of the sessions, or either of them, be absent

at a term of a court of sessions, or the office of those justices or either

of them be vacant, the county judge may supply the vacancy or deficiency for theterm by designating the requisite number to form the

court, from the justices of the peace of the county.

§ 117. These courts must be held at the same place, and commence on the same day, as ‘the terms of the connty courts in

their respective counties, and must be continued as long as the
public interests require.

ARTICLE III.

THE COURTS 01-‘ SESSION! 0!’ THE CITY OF NEW'YORK.

§ 118. The court known as the court of general sessions in and
for the city and county of New York, is continued, with the.
jurisdiction conferred by the next two sections, and no other, and
is denominated the court of sessions of the city of New-York. But.

nothing contained in this section affects its jurisdiction’ of action

or proceedings now pending therein ; nor does it affect any judgment or order already made or proceeding already taken.

§ 119. This court has jurisdiction,

1. To inquire,by the intervention of a grand jury, of all public offenses committed or triable in the city and county of NewYork : - _ .

2. To try and determine any indictment found therein, or sent
‘thereto by the court of oyer and terminer of the city and county

of New-York, for a public oifence not punishable with death:
3. To remove police justices and justices of the justices’ courts

of the city of N ew-York, and their clerks, after due notice and an
opportunity of being heard in their defense, for causes to be stated
in the order of removal :

4. In cases arising in the city and county of New-York, such
as are enumerated in subdivisions 4 to 11, both inclusive, of sec-tion 112. .
§ 120. When an indictment is found in this court, for an offense

punishable with death, it must be sent to the next court of oyer
and terminer of the city and county of New-York.

§ 121. This court must be held, except as provided in the next section, by the recorder or city judge of the city of N ew-York, or
by one of the judges of the court of common pleas of that city, as
the presiding judge, together with two of the aldermen of the
city, designated as the common council may by ordinance prescribe. But it is the especial duty of the recorder or city judge
to hold the court and preside therein.
§ 132. When the court is convened for the purpose of exercising the jurisdiction conferred by the third subdivision of section 112, it must be held by the recorder or city judge of the city of
N ew-York, and at least one of the judges of the court of common
pleas of that city, together with the mayor and aldermen thereof’,
or a majority of those officers then in office.

§ 123. The court must be held on the first Monday of each‘
month, and may be continued until the fourth Saturday thereafter,

inclusive. Concurrent terms may also be held as often as the
recorder and city judge may from time to time prescribe, by an

order filed with the clerk:

§ 124. If the trial of a cause be commenced before the expiration of the term, the court may be continued beyond the term,
till the completion of the trial, and the rendering of judgment on
the verdict.

§ 125. This court must be held at such place in the city of
New-York as now is or hereafter may be prescribed, by ordinance,

by the common council of that city.

CHAPTER XI.

rm: cnrr ‘conrrrs.

§ 126. The courts known as the mayors’ courts of the cities of
Albany, Hudson and Troy, the recorders’ courts of the cities of
Builnlo,Utica and Oswego, and the city court of Brooklyn; are
continued, with the jurisdiction conferred upon them by the next
seven sections, and no other; and shall be hereafter known as
the city courts of those cities respectively. But nothing contained in this section aifects their jurisdiction of actions’ or proceedings now pending therein, nor does it affect any judgment or
order already made or proceeding already taken.

§ 127. The jurisdiction of these courts is of two kinds:

1. Civil: and '

2. Criminal.

§ 128. Their civil jurisdiction extends to the following actions
and proceedings, where the cause thereof arises or the subject
thereof is situated in the city in which the court is .established:

1. For the recovery of real property or of an estate or interest
therein, or for the determination in any form of such right or
interest, and for injuries to real property: '

2. For the partition of real property :

3. For the foreclosure of the mortgage of real property:

4. For the recovery of personal property ‘distrained for any
cause:

5. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by
statute:

6. Againsta public oiiicer or person specially appointed to
execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his oiiice,
or against a person who, by his command or in his aid, does anything touching the duties of the office: .

7. For the sale of the real property of an infant:

8. For the mortgage or sale, on the application of a religious

corporation, of its real property situated in those cities respectively, and the appropriation of the proceeds thereof:
9. To exercise the powers conferred upon it, by other provisions of this code.

§ 129. These courts have civil jurisdiction, also whether the
cause of action arises, or the subject of the action is situated in
the city in which the court is established or not, in the same
cases in which jurisdiction is conferred by section 65, upon the
superior c6urt of the city of N ew-York applying that provision
to the city in which the court is established.

§ 130. When organized as provided in section 135, for the purpose of exercising criminal jurisdiction, these courts have jurisdiction: .
1. To inquire by the intervention of a grand jury, of all public offenses committed in the city in which the court is established:
2. To try and determine an indictment found therein,'or sent
thereto by the court of oyer and terminer of the county, for a
publiceoifence not punishable with death, committed in that city.
§ 131. When an indictment is found at a city court, for an
oE‘ence punishable with death, the court must send the indictment to the next court of oyer and terminer of the county.

§ 132. These courts may also send an indictment found therein .

and remaining undetermined, for an offense not punishable with
death, to the next court of oyer and terminer of the same county,
to be determined according to law; but that court, if in its
opinion the same is not proper to be tried therein, may remit it
back to the court by which it was sent, which must proceed
thereon, as if it had remained there.

§ 133. When an indictment is found at a court of oyer and
terminer or of sessions, in a county embracing any of the cities
in which a city court is established, for an oifencelnot punishable
with death, committed in that city, the court in which it was
found may send it to the next city court in which it is triable,
which must proceed to try and determine the indictment, as if
it had been found therein. .

§ 131. These courts must be held, for the exercise of their
civil jurisdiction, by the following judges :

1. The city courtsof the cities of Albany, Buffalo, Hudson,
Oswego, Troy and Utica, by the recorders of those cities:

2. The city court of the city of Brooklyn, by the city judge of
that city.

§ 135. They must be held, for the eiercise of their criminal
jurisdiction, by the respective oiiicers mentioned in the last section, as presiding Judge, together with two of the aldermen of

the city, designated as the common council may by ordinance ‘

prescribe. 
§ 136. If the judge authorized to hold or preside at a city court
for the exercise of either its civil or criminal jurisdiction, be disqualiiied from holding the court, as provided in section 175, he
must, upon the request of either party, file with the county clerk a certificate, stating the fact constituting the disqualihcation and
directing that the action or proceeding, if civil, be transferred to
the supreme court, or if criminal, to file court of oyer and terminer of the county, and it must be transferred accordingly. If
he refuse to do so, the supreme court, at a special term in the
district, or a judge thereof, may, upon motion after due notice,
order the transfer to be made. A

§ 137. The times and places of holding the city courts, shall -.

continue as at present prescribed, until the thirty-first day of
December, 1853, inclusive, and no longer. '
§ 138. After that time, a term of each of these courts, for the
trial of issues and for the hearing and determination of all inatters appertaining to its civil or criminal j urisdictio'n, must be
held, at such times and places in their respective cities as the
common council thereof may by ordinance prescribe, and must
be continued as long as the public interests require. The court
is always open for the transaction of any other business. And
any action or proceeding pending in a city court, in which the
judge is for any cause incapable of acting, may by such court be
transferred to the county court of the county, and thereupon the
papers therein on file in the city court, shall be transmitted to
the county court, which shall thenceforth have jurisdiction of
such action or proceeding.

CHAPTER XII.

‘rm-1 Jvsncns’ oounr.

ARTICLE I.

THE JUSTICES, COURTS, IN GENERAL.

§ 139. The courts known as the courts of justices of the peace,
the justices’ courts of the cities of Albany, Hudson and Troy,
and thejustices’ courts of the several justices’ districts in the
city of N ew- York, are continued, with the jurisdiction conferred
by the next three sections, and mother, and are in this code denominated justices’ courts. But nothing contained in this section aifects their jurisdiction in actions or proceedings now pend-'

ing therein, nor does it affect any judgment or order already
made, or proceeding already taken.

§ 140. These courts have jurisdiction of the following actions
and proceedings:

1. Of an action arising on contract, for the recovery of money

' only, if the sum claimed do not exceed one hundred dollars :

exceed one hundred dollars.

2. Of an action for ‘damages for an injury to the person, or to

real property, or for taking, detaining, or injuring personal property, if the damages claimed do not exceed one hundred dollars:

3. Of an action for a penalty, not exceeding one hundred dollars, given by statute:

4. Of an action upon a bond, conditioned for the payment of
money, no't exceeding one hundred dollars, though the penalty
exceed that sum : the judgment to‘ be given for the sum actually
due. . When the payments are to be made by installments, an
action may be brought for each installment as it becomes due:

5. Of an action upon a surety bond or Imdertaking taken by

them, though the penalty or amount claimed exceed one hundred dollars :

6. To take and enter judgment on the confession of a defend- .

ant, whenthe. amount confessed does not exceed two hundred
and iifty dollars: ‘ ‘

’ 7. In the cities of Albany, Hudson, New-York and Troy, of an

a tion,upon the charter or upon a by-laxxv of the corporation of
those cities respectively, when the penalty or forfeiture does not

I

I

§ 141. The jurisdiction conferred by the last section does not
extend, however, to a civil action, . .

1. In which the title to real property shall come in question:

2. Nor for an assault, battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversation or seduction, or
upon a promise to marry: A ,

3. Nor involving a matter of account, when the sum total of
the accounts of both parties, proved to the satisfaction of the

court, exceeds four hundred dollars:
4. Nor of an‘a_ction against an executor or administrator, as

such, or against a foreign corporation.

§ 142. The following actions can, however, be brought in these
courts, only when the cause ‘of action, or some part of it, arose in
the town, city or district in which they are established, or when

the defendant resides, or having absconded from his residence, is
found therein,

1. For the recovery of ' a forfeiture or penalty given by statute: _

2. Against a public officer or person specially appointed to
execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office,

or against a person who, by his command or in his aid, does any
thing touching the duties of such officer.

ARTICLE II.

1-an ms-rrczs’ coun-rs nun nv msrrcns or -rm-2 pmcr-:.
§ 143. Every justice of the peace must hold a justices’ court in

the town or city in which he is elected, denominated a justice’s _

court of that town or city, except as provided in the next two

' sections.

§ 144. If the justice be an inn-holder or tavern.-keeper, he is
disqualified from holding a court as provided in the last section ;

but if a judgment have been actually rendered by him, before his
becoming so disqualified, he may issue execution thereon as in
other cases.

§ 145. If he be a member of the legislature, or a county judge,
he is not obliged to hold a justice’s court as provided in section 143, but may do so or not, at his option.
§ 146. An action of which these courts have jurisdiction, as
provided in sections 140 to 142, both inclusive, must be brought,

1. In a courtheld in the town or city in which either the plaintifff or defendant, or one of several plaintifffs or defendants resides, or in another town in the same county, next adjoining the
residence of the plaintin‘ or defendant.

2. If the defendant have abscohded from his residence, in a
court _held in the town or city inwhich he or his property may
be:

3. If the plaintifff or defendant do not reside in the county, it
may be brought in a court held in the towndor city in which
either the plaintiti‘ or defendant may be :

4. If the defendant be a corporation, created under the laws of
this state, in a court held in the town or city in which it transects

its general business or keeps an office or has an agency established
for the transaction. of business, _or is established by law.
§ 147. These courts may be held at any place designated by

the justice holding the same, in the town or city for which he is
elected; and they are always open for the transaction of business.
ARTICLE III.

THE JUSTICES’ COURTS OF THE CITIES OF ALBANY, HUDSON AND TROY.

§ 148. There are three justices of each of these courts, elected

by the electors of the cities in which they are established.
§ 149. Either of the justices of these courts may hold the court

in the city in which he is elected. .
§ 150. These courts must be held at the places appointed purbsuant to law, or if there be none, at such places as may be from

time to time appointed by the common council of their cities, at
ten o’clock on every judicial day, and must continue in session

as long as the public interests require.

ARTICLE IV.
ran .ms'r1c1:s’ COURTS IN THE crrv or NEW-YORK.

§ 151. The city of New-York is divided into six justices’ districts, in which there shall continue courts denominated the justices’ courts of the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth districts of that city, respectively. They are also denominated district courts.‘

§ 152. The districts mentioned in the last section are .as follows:

1. The first district embraces the tirst, second, third and ilfth
wards:

2. The second district embraces the fourth, sixth and fourteenth wards: '

3. The third district embraces the eighth and ninth wards :‘

4. The fourth district embraces the tenth, fifteenth and seventeenth wards: T

5. The fifth district embraces the seventh, eleventh and thirteenth wards:

6. The sixth district embraces the twelfth, sixteenth and eighteenth wards.

§ 153. In addition to the jurisdiction conferred on these courts,
as provided in sections 140 to l42,both inclusive, they have jurisdiction also of actions arising on contracts, for the recovery of
money only, if the sum claimed do not exceed 3250.

§ 154. An action of which these courts have jurisdiction, must
be brought,

1. In a court held in the district in which either the plaintiff
or defendant, or one of several plaintifffs or defendants, resides:

2. If none of the parties reside in the city of N ew-York, in any
of these courts, at the election of the plaintifff :

3. Ifthe defendant be a corporation created under the laws of
this state, in a court held in the district in which it transacts its
general business or keeps an office or has an agency established
for the transaction of business, or is established by law. '

§ 155. There is a justice of each of these courts, elected by the
electors of the district in which it is established.

§ 156. The justice elected in each district must hold the court
therein; or if his office be vacant, or he be absent or unable from

illness to hold the court, or if he be disqualified as provided in section 172, the court may be held by agjustice electedin another

district, and whenever a justice fails to attend, the clerk may

adjourn as in the same manneras the justice might have done.
§ 157. These courts must be held at the places in their districts, now or hereafter appointed by the common council of the

city of N cw-York, at such hours on every judicial day, as the
rcsp-ectivejustices may direct, and must continue in session as
long as public interests require.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE MARIN! (XDURT OF THE CITY OF NEW*YORK.

§ 158. The court, known as the marine court of the city of NewYork, is continued, with the jurisdiction conferred by the next section, and no other. But nothing contained in this section at‘fects its jurisdiction of actions or proceedings now pending therein; nor does it affect any judgment or order already made,or proceeding already taken.

§ 159. The marine court of the city of New-York has jurisdiction of the following actions and proceedings:

1. Of the actions and proceedings enumerated in sections 140
to 142, both inclusive: I

2. Of actions arising on contract for the recovery of money only, if‘ the sum claimed do not exceed $500 :

3. Of an action between a person belonging to a vessel in the
merchant service, and the owner, master or commander thereof,

demanding compensation for the performance, or damages for the

violation of a contract for services on board the vessel, during a.
voyage performed, in whole or in part, or intended to be performed by the vessel, though the sum demanded exceed one hundred
dollars:

4. Of an action by or against a person belonging to or on board of
a vessel in the merchant service, for an assault and battery or false
imprisonment, committed on board the vessel, upon the high seas,
or in a place without the United States, of which the ordinary
courts of this state have jurisdiction, though the damages demanded exceed one hundred dollars. But nothing in this or the last subdivision of this section, gives this court power to proceed, in
any of the cases therein referred to, as a court of admiralty or

maritime jurisdiction:

§ 160. There are three judges of this court,elected by the electors of ‘the city and county of New-York. Either of them may
hold the court.

§ 161. The court must be held at the city hall in the city of
New—York at ten o’clock on every judicial day, and must continue in session as long as the public interests require. The mode

of proceeding is the same as in the justice courts of that city.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE POLICE COURTS.

§ 162. The courts of special sessions now existing, or which

may be organized in pursuance of any statutory provision now in
force, may also be known as the police courts; but this section

shall not affect any proceeding already had or right already accrued.

§ 163. The police courts mentioned in the last section, and the
others now existing, have jurisdiction in the cases prescribed in

the next section, of the following public offenses committed in
their respective counties: ’

1. Petit larceny, not charged as a second offense :

2. Assault and battery, not charged to have been committed
riotously, or upon a public officer in the execution of his duties:

3. Poisoning, killing, maiming, wounding or cruelly beating an
animal :

4. Racing animals within one mile of the place where a court
is held :

5. Committing a willful trespass, or severing any produce or article from the freehold, not amounting to grand larceny:

6. Selling poisonous substances, not labelled, as required by
statute :

7. Maliciously removing, altering, defacing or cutting down
monuments or marked trees:

8. Maliciously breaking, destroying or removing mile-stones,
mile-boards or guide-boards, or altering an inscription thereon.

§ 164. The jurisdiction conferred upon the police courts, by
the last section, can, however, be exercised only in the following

cases:
1. When the party charged, upon his beihg brought before a

magistrate, requests to be tried by a police court: or,

2. When, not having made such request, and after having been

required by the magistrate to give bail for his appearance at the
next court of sessions in the county, he omits to do so for twentyfour hours.

§ 165. In the city and county of New-York, these courts must
be held at each of the police offices now or hereafter designated

by the common council, on Tuesday and Friday of each week,
.by two of the police‘ justices of that city, and by no other oilicer.
§ 166. In the other counties, the police court must be held by

the magistrate issuing the warrant of arrest, or before whom the
defendant is brought to answer the charge. '

CHAPTER XV.

TI-IE COURTS OF CONCILIATION.

§ 167. Tribunals are hereby established in the several counties
of this state, to be known as the courts of conciliation.

§ 168. The jurisdiction of these courts, and the manner of its
exercise, are prescribed in subsequent parts of this code.

CHAPTER XVI.
GENERAL raovrsrorzs nasrscrrne THE counrs or JUSTICE.

ARTICLE I.

PUBLICITY OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICE.

§ 169. The sittings of every court of justice, other than a court
of conciliation, are public, except as provided‘ in the next section.

§ 170. Upon the agreement of the parties to a civil action, or
aproceeding of a‘civil nature, filed with the clerk, or entered

upon the minutes, the court may direct the trial of an issue of
law or of fact, or any other proceeding therein, to be private;

and upon such direction,- all persons shall be excluded, except
the officers of the court, the parties, their witnesses and counsel.

ARTICLE II.

INCIDENTAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICE.

§ 171. Every court, except a court of conciliation, has power,

1. To preserve and enforce order in its immediate presence :

2. To enforce order in the proceedings before it, or before a
person or body empowered to conduct a judicial investigation,
under its authority :

3. To provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings before it
or its oiiicers :

4. To compel obedience .to its’ judgments, orders and process,
and to the orders of a judge out of court, in an action or proceeding pending therein:

5. To control, in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its
ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in every matter appertaining thereto:

6. To compel the attendance of persons, to testify, in an action
or proceeding pending therein, in the cases and manner provided
in this code :

7. To administer oaths in an action or proceeding pending
therein, and in all other cases where it may be necessary in the
exercise of its powers and duties: .

8. To amend and control its process and orders, so as to make
them conformable to law and justice.

§ 172. For the elfectual exercise of the powers conferred by
the last section, the court may punish for contempt, in the cases

provided in this code. 

§ 173. In furtherance of the objects embraced in section 3, the
court of appeals and the supreme court in general session, with

the assistance of the judges of the superior court and court of
common pleas of the city of New-York as provided in section 58,

may from time to time, make such rules, and such only, for the
practice in those courts, as are necessary to carry this code into

elfect, according to its spirit.
§ 174. The ‘rules so made by the supreme court shall, when
applicable, govern the practice in the other courts, except the

court of appeals, surrogates’ and justices’ courts, and courts of
conciliation ; and no rules made by the supreme court, except at

such general session of all the judges or a majority of them, are
valid.

ARTICLE III.

PARTICULAR DISQUALIFICATIONS OF JUDGES.

§ 175. A judge cannot act as ‘such, in a court of which he is a
member, in any of the following cases:

1. In an action or proceeding to which he is a party, or in
which he is interested:

2. When he is related to either party, by consanguinity or
ailinity within the third degree :

3. When he has been attorney, solicitor or counsel for either
party, in the action or proceeding:

4. When the action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended,
by a person related to him, by consanguinity or affinity within
the third degree, or by a partner of a person so related, as attorney or counsel for either party:

5. When he was not present and sitting as'a member of the
court, at the hearing of a matter submitted for its decision.

But this section does not apply to the arrangement of the calender, or the regulation of the order of business.

§ 176. A judge cannot act as attorney or counsel in a court of
which he is a judge, or in an action or proceeding removed therefrom to another court for review. But this section does not
extend to a person who acts as a judge, in virtue of his office as

an alderman of a city, earcept in cases in which he may have
acted as a member of the court.

§ 177. A judge of the court of appeals or supreme court, or of
the superior court or court of common pleas of the city of NewYork, cannot act as attorney or counsel in any court.

§ 178. A judge cannot have a partner, acting as attorney or
counsel in the court of which he is judge; nor can a judge be
interested in the costs of an action or proceeding in that court, except where he is a party.

ARTICLE IV.
JUDICIAL pars.

§ 179. The courts of justice may be held, and judicial business
may be transacted, on any day except as provided in the next section.

§ 180. No court can be opened, nor can any judicial business
be transacted on Sunday, on the first day of January, on the
Fourth day of July, on Christmas day, on a day on which a general election is held, or on a day appointed by the Governor of
this State as a day of fast or thanksgiving, except for the following purposes:

-_

1. To give, upon their request, instructions to a jury then deliberating on their verdict: ‘

2. To receive a verdict, or discharge a jury :

3. For the exercise of the powers of a single magistrate, in a
criminal action, or in a proceeding of a criminal nature.

§ 181. If any of the days mentioned in the last section happen
to be a day appointed for the holding of a court, or to which it is
adjourned, it is deemed appointed for, or adjourned to the next
day.

§ 182. A person, whose religious faith and practice are to keep
the seventh day of the week, as a day set apart by divine command, as the Sabbath of ‘rest from labor and. dedicated to the
worship of God, cannot be compelled on that day to attend as a
juror. '
§ 183. A person who shall, on that day, knowingly and maliciously serve, or caused to be served, upon one who is exempted,
as provided in the last section, process issued from a justice’s
court, returnable on that or any other day, or who shall, before

that day, knowingly and maliciously serve upon him such process returnable thereon, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and may be

punished by a line not exceeding one hundred dollars, or by imprisonment not exceeeing thirty days, or both.

ARTICLE V.

PARTICULAR PROVISIONS RESPECTING THE PLACES OF HOLDINO THE
COURTS OF JUSTIOI. O

§ 184. Every court of justice must sit at the places designated
for that purpose in this code, except as provided in the next five sections. 

§ 185. Upon the agreement of the parties to a civil action or a
proceeding of a civil nature, filed with the clerk or entered upon

the minutes, the court may direct that the trial of an issue of ‘law
or of fact, or any other proceeding therein, be had elsewhere than
at the court house. '

§ 186. The supervisors of a countyrin which a term of the court
of appeals, or a term or circuit of the supreme court, or a term of

a court of oyer and terminer or sessions, or county court, is ap-.
pointed to be held, must provide the court with rooms,‘ furniture,

attendants, fuel, lights and stationery, suitable and sufficient for
the transaction of its business, and for the jury attending upon it.
The common council of the city in which a term of a city court,
and in the city of N ew-York, a term of the superior court or court
of common pleas of that city is appointed to be held, must make
for those courts the same provision.

§ 187. If a board of supervisors or common council neglect to

make the provision required by the last section, the court may ‘

order the sheriff to do so; and the expense incurred by him in
carrying the order into effect, when certified by the court, is a
county or city charge.

§ 188. The Governor may, by proclamation Lfiled with the

Secretary of State and published as he may prescribe, direct that
a session of the court for the trial of impeachments, a term of the

court of appeals, a term or circuit of the supreme court, or a
term of a court of oyer and terminer or sessions, be held at a
place other than that appointed, when war, pesfilence or other
public calamity, or the danger thereof, may render it necessary ;

and may in the same manner revoke the proclamation, and in his
discretion appoint another place for holding the court.

§ 189. A judge, authorized to hold or preside at a court appointed to be held in a city or town, may, by an order illed with
the county clerk, and published as he may prescribe, direct that
the court he held or continued‘ at any other place in the city or

county than that appointed, when war, pesfilence or other public
calamity, or the danger thereof, or the destruction of the building

appointed for holding the court, may render it necessary; and
may, in the same manner, revoke the order, and in his discretion
appoint another place in the same city or county for holding the
court.

§ 190 When a court is held at a place appointed, as provided
in the last two sections, every person held to appear at the court
must appear at the place so appointed. ‘

§ 191. Intoxicating liquors must not, on. any pretense, be sold
in the courthouse of a county. A violation of this section is
punishable as a contempt and as a misdemeanor. '

ARTICLE VI.

PROCEEDINGS, WHEN JUDGES DO NOT ATTEND, TO HOLD A COURT, AND
‘ ADJOURNMENTS.

§ 192. If no judge attend on the day appointed for holding a
court, before four o’cloek in the afternoon, the court shall stand
adjourned until the next day at nine o’clock ; and if no judge
attend on that day, before four o’clock in the afternoon, it shall
then stand adjourned for the term.

§ 193. If less than a sufficient number of judges attend, on the

day appointed for holding a court, or on the day to which it
stands adjourned,as provided in the last section, the judge or

judges attending must adjourn the court until the /next day at ten
o’cloek; and may in the same manner adjourn it from day to day,
not beyond the same week, until a sufficient number of judges attend. ‘

§ 194. General and special terms of the supreme or county
courts, and circuits, and courts of oyer and terminer, may be adjourned to be held on any future day, by an entry to be made in
the minutes of the court ; and juries may be drawn and summoned
for any additional circuit or county court, or an adjourned court
of oyer and terminer; and causes may be noticed for trial at an
adjourned circuit or county court in the same manner as if such
courts were held by original appointment.

ARTICLE VII.

SEALS OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICE.

§ 195. Each of the following courts, and no other, has a seal -'
1 . The court of appeals :
2. The supreme court
3. The superior court of the city of N ew-York :
4. The court of common pleas of the city of New-York :
5. The courts of oyer and terminer:
6. The county courts:
7. The surrogates’ courts:
8. The courts of sessions:
9. The city courts:
10. The marine court of the city of New-York:

11. The justices’ courts in the city of New-York.
§ 196. The seals now used by these courts shall continue to be

so used, until and including the thirty-first day of December,
1850. After that day, the seals devised as provided in the next section, shall be the seals thereof.

§ 197. At least thirty days before the first day of January, 1851,
the secretary of state must procure and transmit, at the expense
of the state, to the clerks of the several courts and to the surroi

gates mentioned in the section 195, seals, with the arms of the
state engraved in the centre thereof, and with the following in-scriptions surrounding the same :

1. For the court of appeals, “Court of Appeals-— State of

New York.”
2. For the supreme court, “New-York Supreme Court.-—County,” inserting the name of each county.
3. For the superior court of the city of New York, “Superior

Court of the City of New York.”
4. For the court of common pleas of the city of New-York

“Court of Common Pleas of the City of New York.”
5. For the courts of oyer and terminer, “ Oyer and Terminer,

——County, N .Y.” inserting the name of each county; and in
the city and county of New-York, “Oyer and Terminer—City and

County of New-York.”
6. For the county courts, “ County Court,—-—County, N .Y.,”

inserting the name of the county. ,
7. For the surrogates’s courts, “ Surrogate’s court ;-——County,

N.Y.,” inserting the name of the county.
8. For the courts of sessions, “Courts of Sessions,-—-- County,

N.Y.,” or in the city and county of New-York, “Court of Sessions

—City and county of New-York.”
9. For the city courts, “ City court of the city of---—,N.Y.,”

inserting the name of the city.

10. For the'marine court of the city of New-York, “ Marine
court of the City of New-York.”

11. For the justice’s courts in the city of N ew-York, “ District
Court of the city of New-York—lst. District,” or whatever district it may be.

§ 198. The Secretary of State must, at the mme time and in the

e manner, transmit to each county clerk, a seal for 1,1, munty, with the device mentioned in the last section, and the following inscription surrounding the same,“ County,—-State of
New-York,” inserting the name of the county; or, in the city
and county of New-York, “City and County of New-York-—State
of New-York.”

§ 199. The clerk of each court mentioned in section 195,01oept the surrogate’s court, must keep the seal thereof. The seal
of the surrogate’s court must be kept by the surrogate.

§ 200. The seal of a court need not be atlixed to any proceedings therein, except,

1. To a writ specially ordered by the court :

2. To the proof of a will or the appointment of an executor,
administrator or general guardian : or,

3. To the authentication of a copy of a record or other proceeding of the court or an officer thereof, for the purpose of evidence
in another court.

§ 201. The seal may be affixed by impressing it on the paper,
or on a substance attached to it and capable of receiving the
impression.

TITLE ll.

01-‘ JUDICIAL OFFICERS.

CHAPTER I.

JUDICIAL OFFICIRS IN GENERAL.

§ 202. A judicial officer is a person authorized to act as a judge,
in a court of justice.

CHAPTER II.

ELECTION, TENURE OF OFFICE, CLASSIFICATION AND COMPENSATION
OF JUDICIAL OFFICERS.

§ 203. Judicial oiiiceis are elected by the electors of the state

at large, or of a county, city, town or district thereof; or, when
their offices become vacant, are appointed in the manner prescribed by the constitution and by special statutes. The tenure
of their oilices, and their classification, are provided for in the
Same manner.

§ 204. All judicial officers, except justices of the peace, receive,

at stated times, for their services, a compensation established by
special statutes, which cannot be increased or diminished during
their continuance in office; and are prohibited from receiving, to
their own use, any fees or perquisites of oilice. '

CHAPTER III.

PARTICULAR. DISQUALII-‘ICATIOII ‘OF ‘JUDICIAL OFFICERS.

§ 205. The judges of the court of appeals and of the supreme
court, cannot hold another oiiice or public trust; and all votes

for any of them, for an elective oiiice, except that of a judge of
those or other courts, given by the legislature or the people, are

void. They are also prohibited from exercising any power of
appointment to public office.

CHAPTER IV.

REMOVAL OF JUDICIAL OFFICERS FROM OFFICE.

§ 206. The judges of the court of appeals and supreme court
may be removed by concurrent resolution of both houses of the
legislature, if two-thirds of all the members elected to the assembly, and a majority of all the members elected to the senate,

concur therein.

§ 207. All other judicial officers, except justices of the peace,
police justices, and the justices of justices’ courts in cities, may
be removed from office,

1. By the court for the trial of impeachments, upon an impeach-'

merit by the assembly, for. willful and corrupt misconduct in
office: '

2. By the senate, on the recommendationvof the governor.
§ 208. No removal can be made by the concurrent resolution
of both houses of the legislature, or by the senate on the recommendation of the governor, as provided in the last two sections,

unless the cause thereof be entered on the journals, nor unless
the party complained of shall have been served with a copy of
the complaint against him, and shall have had an opportunity of
being heard in his defense. ‘On the question of removal, the
ayes and noes must be entered on the journal.

§ 209. Justices of the peace, police justices, and the justices of
justices’ courts in cities, may be removed by the courts of sessions

in their respective counties after due notice and an opportunity of being heard in their defense, for causes to be stated in the
orderof removal.

CHAPTER V.

INCIDENTAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF JUDICIAL OFFICERS.

§ 210. A judge may exercise, out of court, all the powers expremly conferred upona judge as contradistinguished from the

court. But when an order has been made in court, it cannot be
suspended or afected by the order of a judge out of court.

§ 211. A judge, upon an affidavit showing cause therefore, may

enlarge the time within which any act in an action or special proceeding before him or in his court, must be done, after its commencement and before judgment, except the time within which
an appeal must be taken, or may stay proceedings therein, for
the purpose of a motion to the court. But the time cannot be enlarged or the proceedings stayed for_ more than twenty days,
except upon previous notice to the adverse party ; and a copy of

the aiiidavit must be served with the order, or the order may be
disregarded ; and no judge, except the one who tried the cause,
unless he be absent from the county or unable to act, can, after a
trial by the court or jury, extend the time for preparing a case,

exceptions or special verdict, or stay proceedings thereon.
§ 212. If the action or proceeding be in the supreme court, the
powers conferred upon a judge of that court by the last two sections, may be exercised by a county judge, in his county, where
one of the parties or attorneys reside therein except as provided
in this chapter. _

§ 213. If an application for an order, made to a judge of the
court in which the action or proceeding is pending, be refused in

whole or in part, or be granted conditionally, no subsequent application for the same order can be made to any other judge.

§ 214. A violation of the last section is punishable as a contempt; and an order made contrary thereto may be revoked by
the judge who made it, or vacated by a judge of the court in
which the action or proceeding is pending. '

§ 215. When the time to answer or reply, in an action in the
supreme court, has been extended by a county judge, neither he

.nor any other county judge can grant a further extension; and if’
an application be made to anyjudge for a further extension, the
applicant must show by atiidavit the time of service of the pleading to be answered, the time previously granted him to answer,

and when the next circuit will be held in the county. If a further extension be made by a county judge, it may be disregarded.
§ 216. Every judicial officer has power,

1. To preserve and enforce order in his immediate presence,
and in the proceedings before him, when he is engaged in the
performance of a duty imposed upon him by this code :

2. To compel obedience to his lawful orders, as provided in
this code :

3. To compel the attendance of persons to testify in a proceeding pending before him, in the cases and manner provided in this
code :

4. To administer oaths to persons in a proceeding pending before him, and in all other cases where it may be necessary, in the
exercise of his powers and duties. '

§ 217. For the effectual exercise, of the powers conferredby
the last section, a judicial officer may punish for contempt," in the
cases provided in this code. ,

§ 218. The judges of the court of "appeals, and of the supreme
court, have power, in any part of the state, to take and certify,

l. The proof and acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property, or of any other written instrument:

2. The acknowledgment of satisfaction of a judgment in any
court, including a judgment of a justice’s court, or of the marine

court of the city of N ew-York, whena transcript thereof has been
filed with a county clerk :

3. An affidavit to be used in any court of justice in this state :

4. To exercise any other power, and perform any other duty
conferred or imposed upon them by this code, or by other statutes.

§ 219. Every other judicial officer may, within the county,
city, village, town, district or ward, in which he is elected or
appointed,

1. Exercise the powers mentioned in the first three subdivisions of the last section:

2. Exercise any other power and perform any other duty con-~
ferred or imposed upon him bythis code or by other statutes.

CHAPTER VI.

VACAKCIES IN OFFICE, AND THE POWERS OF CERTAIN SPECIAL JUDGES.‘

§ 220. The local officer, for whose election, in certain cases,
provision is made by section hfteen of the sixth article of the constitution, is in this code known as a special county judge.

§ 221. In case of the inability of a county judge or surrogate,
or of a vacancy in his oilice, the special county judge is invested
with his powers and charged with his duties during the inability

or vacancy. ,
§ 222. In a county in which there is no special county judge,
in case of inability of a surrogate, or of a vacancy in his office,

his powers and duties devolve on the county judge,or if the office
of judge and surrogate are united in the same person, then on the

district attorney, during the vacancy or in the particular case.
In the city of New-York, if the surrogate be unable to act, or
there be a vacancy in his office, one of the judges of the court of
common pleas, to be designated by the mayor of that city, must
act as surrogate during the disability or vacancy.

§ 223. A special county judge has also the powers in his county, _

which by law are conferred on the county judge, in actions and
proceedings in the supreme court.

§ 224. A vacancy in the oilice, or disability of a judge or surrogate, whether existing in reference to a particular action or

proceeding under the provisions of section 17 5 , or from any other
cause, must be determined by an order of the supreme court, entered with the clerk of the proper county. The order may be
made upon affidavit, without notice‘, or upon notice, or upon an
order to show cause, in the discretion of the court.

§ 225. In the city of New-York, there is a judicial officer,
known as the city judge of the city of New-York. His election,
term of office, and compensation, are provided for by special statutes. His duties are prescribed by particular provisions of this

code.

CHAPTER VII.

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIOES, RESPECTLNG COURTS AND JUDICIAL
OFFICERS.

§ 226. No proceeding in a court of justice in an action or special proceeding pending therein, is affected by a vacancy in the
office of all or any of the judges, or by the failure of a term
thereof.

§ 227. An application or other proceeding addressed to a court,
must be addressed to it by its style, as given in this code; and
when the name of a judge is mentioned in an order or other proceeding in court, it must be mentioned without any other title

than his style of office. An application- or other proceeding ad
dressed to a judicial officer, must be addressed to him by his name,

without any other title than his style of oilice.

§ 228. Every written proceeding in a court of justice of this
state, or before a judicial oiiicer, must be in the English language ;
but such abbreviations as are now commonly used in that language, may be used, and numbers may be expressed by figures or
numerals, in the customary manner.

§ 229. A judicial officer is guilty of a misdemeanor, and is also
liable to a civil action, at the suit of a party aggrieved, if be performs an official act corruptly,or willfully neglects or violates an
otlicial duty.

§ 230. A court or judicial oilicer has power to create or fill a

vacancy in any oilice held by appointment thereof, or to adjourn
any proceeding from time to time, as may be necesmy, unless

otherwise expressly provided, by a particular provision of this
code; and a special proceeding, or a proceeding in an action,out

of court, commenced before a judicial oiiicer, may be continued
before any other judicial officer, before whom it might have been

‘ commenced.

§ 231. When jurisdiction is, by this code, or by any other
statute, conferred on a court or judicial officer, all the means to
carry it into effect are also given; and in the exercise of the
jurisdiction, if the course of proceeding be not specifically pointed
out by this code, any suitable process or mode of proceeding may
be adopted, which may appear most conformable to the spirit of


CHAPTER.

OF’ PERSONS BPECIALLY INVETED WITH rbwnns OF A JUDICIAL
NATURE. ' ‘

‘CHAPTER 1.
ARTICLE 1.

JURORS, IN GENERAL.

§ 232. A jury is a body of men temporarily selected from the
citizens of a particular district, and invested with the powerto
present or indict a person for a public offense, or to try a question
of fact.

§ 233. A jury is of three kinds:

1. A grand jury:

2. A trial jury: and,

3. A jury of inquest.

§ 234. A grand jury is a body of men, not less than sixteen nor
more than twenty-three in number, returned at stated periods

‘from the citizens of the county, before a court of competent

jurisdiction, and chosen by lot and sworn to inquire of public
offenses committed or triable within the county. ‘ '

§ 235. A trial jury is a body of men, returned from the citizens
of a particular district, before a court or oiiicer of competent
jurisdiction, and chosen by lot and sworn to try and determine,
by ai unanimous verdict, a question of fact. '

§ 236. A jury of inquest is a body of men, summoned from the
citizens of a particular district, before the sheriff, coroner, or
other ministerial officer, to inquire of particular facts.

§ 237. A trial jury consists of twelve men, except as otherwise
provided in this code in respect to a justices’ or police court, or
a special procwding.

§ 238. Foreign juries, juries de mcdietate lingmz, and trials by
a jury at the bar of the court, are abolished ; and no question of
fact triable by a jury, can be tried except by a jury returned,
chosen and sworn as provided in this code.

§ 239. Each trial jury and jury of inquest is entitled to a
fee of twenty-live cents for every civil action or special proceeding tried by him, to be paid by the plaintill or moving party. «

ARTICLE II.

THE QUALIFICATIONS AND EXEMPTIONS OF JURORS.

§ 240. A person is not competent to act as a juror, unless h be,

1. A citizen of the United States:

2. A white male inhabitant of the town or ward from which
he is returned: ,

3. Over twenty-one and under sixty years of age:

4. In the possession of his natural faculties, and not decrepid :

5. Of good moral character, of sound judgment, ‘and well
informed: and,

6. Subject to assessment, for personal property belonging to
him, or for land in his possession, which he holds under contract

for the purchase thereof, upon which improvements have been
made of the value of one hundred and titty dollars; or having

a freehold estate in the county, in his own right or in right of his
wife, of the value of one hundred and fifty dollars.

§ 241. A person is exempt from liability to act as a juror, if
he be, _

1. A judicial oilicer, as defined in section 202:

2. Any- other civil oiiicer of this state or of the United States,
whose duties are at the time inconsistent with his attendance as
a juror :

3. A practicing attorney and counsellor: _

4. A minister of the gospel, or a priest of any denomination,
actively engaged in the duties of his calling:

5. A teacher in a college, academy or school :

6. A practicing physician or surgeon :

7. An acting non-commissioned officer, musician or private, of
an uniformed company or troop, duly equipped and organized
according to law ; the evidence of which is the certificate of the
commanding officer, verified by oath, and dated within three
months of the time when the exemption is claimed :

8. An acting member of a company of firemen, duly organized

according to law; the evidence of which is the certificate of the
foreman or other chief oilicer of the company : A

9. A person who, on the first day of May, 1849, had served,or
who thereafter may serve, as an acting member of a company of
hremen in a city or village of this state, for five years; the evidence of which is the certificate of the_ chief engineer or head of
the fire department of the city or village :

10. A superintendent, engineer, collector or conductor of a
canal or railroad, constructed by the authority of this state, and
in actual use: .

11. An officer, keeper, or attendant of an alms-house, poorhouse, hospital, asylum, or other charitable institution, created by
or under the laws of this State.:

12. A person in the actual employment of an incorporated
manufacturing company, by the year, month or season : or

13. A person specially exempted by any other statute, from
serving on a jury.

§ 212. A person may be excused from acting as a juror, when, I

for any reason, his interests or those of the public will be materially injured by his attendance: or when his own health, or the
dmth or sickness of a member of his family, requires his absence.


ARTICLE III.

MAINE OF RETURNING THE GRAND JURY LIST, AND DRAWING AND
SUMMONING THE GRAND JURY.

§ 243. The board of supervisors of each county must annually

make a list, denominated the grand jury list, containing the names
of persons to serve as grand jurors at the courts of oyer and terminer and sessions and city courts in the county, until a new list
he returned, in the following manner:

1. In the city and county of N ew-York, it must be made annu- ,

ally on the first Monday of July, and must contain the names _of

twelve hundred persons :
2. In the other counties, it must be made at the annual meetingof the board of supervisors, and must contain the names of
three hundred persons, apportioned among the diiferent towns
and wards, according to the number of persons assessed on the

last preceding assessment roll.
§ 244. In preparing the grand jury list, the names of those perso 3 only must be selected, who are known or believed to be pos.

sessed of the qualifications prescribed in section 240, and not entitledto exemption, as provided in section 241.

§ 245. The grand jury list must contain the christian and surname at length, and the _place of residence and occupation of
each person named therein, and must be certified by the clerk of
the board'of supervisors, and filed in the oiiice of the clerk of
the ‘county, within ten days after the day on which it is required
to be prepared. - ‘

§ 246. The county clerk must keep in his oiiice, two suiiicient

‘boxes, carefully secured, the one of which is denominated the

grand jury box, and the other the box of drawn grand jurors.
§ 247. On receiving the grand jury list, he must destroy all

ballots remaining in both boxes, and must prepare and deposit in

the grand jury box, separate ballots, containing the name, place

of residence and occupation of each person embraced in the list,

and folded as nearly alikeas posssible, and so that the name cannot be seen.

§ 248. The grand jury for every court in the county, must be

drawn from the names deposited in the grand jury box. But if
it be drawn for a city court, the clerk must return to the box,

every ballot containing the name of a person not stated thereon
to reside in the city in which the court is established.

§ 249. A grand jury must be drawn for every term of the following courts: ‘

1 . The court of oyer and te'rminer, except in the city and
county of New-York:

2. The court of sessions of the city of N ew-York, and the city
courts. 

§ 250. A grand jury may also be drawn,
- 1. For every other court of sessions, when specially ordered
by the court, or by the board of supervisors:

2. For the court of oyer and terminer in the city and county
of New-York, upon the order of a judge of the supreme court
elected in the first judicial district.

§ 251. If made by the court, the order must be. entered upon
its minutes, and a copy thereof filed with the county clerk, at
least thirty days before the term for which the jury is ordered.

If made by the board of supervisors, a copy thereof certified by
the clerk of the board, must be filed with the county clerk, at
least thirty days before the term; and when so filed, is conclusive
evidence of the authority for drawing the jury. .

§ 252. A misdescription, however, of the title of the court,
does not affect the validity of the order,if it can be plainly understood therefrom, what court is intended.

§ 253. To constitute a grand jury, thirty-six ballots must be

drawn from the grand jury box, for the court of sessions in the.

city of N ew-York, and twenty-four for the courts in every other
city and county. '

§ 254. The drawing must take place at theoffice of the county
clerk, not less than fourteen, nor more than twenty days before
the holding of the court.

§ 265. At least six days notice of the time and place of the
drawing must be given, by publication in a newspaper of the»
county, or if there be none, by aiiixing the notice on the outer
door of the court house. A copy of the notice must also be
served on the sheriff-of the county, ‘and on one of the persons
authorized to act asa judge of the court, at least three days before
the time appointed for the drawing.

§ 256. At the time appointed, the sheriff or under sheriff, and
the judge upon whom notice has been served, as prescribed in the
lat section, must attend at the oiliee of the county clerk, 
snperintend the drawing. If either of those oiiicers do not appear,
the clerk must adjourn the drawing to the next day; and must,
by written notice, require the delinquent sheriff or judge, or any
two justices of the peace or police justices, to attend the drawing
at that time. If the officers receiving notice, then appear, but
not otherwise, the clerk must proceed in their presence to draw
the grand jury.

§ 257. The drawing must be conducted, as follows:

1. The clerk must shake the box containing the ballots, so as

to mingle them as much as possible: ,

2. He must then publicly draw out of the box, as many of the

ballots as there are grand jurors required:
3. A minute of the drawing must be kept, in which the name
contained on, each ballot drawn must be entered, before another

ballot can be drawn:

4. If, when the whole number of ballots required is drawn, it
appear that a person, whose name is drawn, is dead or insane, or
resides out of the county, that fact must be entered in the minute
of the drawing, and the ballot containing the name, destroyed

5. Another ballot must then be drawn in place of that destroyed,
and the name contained thereon must in the same manner be
entered in the minute of the drawing:

6. The same proceedings must be had, as often as necessary
until the requisite number of ballots is drawn: '7. The minute of the drawing must then be signed by the clerk
and the attending oiiicers, and immediately filed in the elerk’s
office.

§ 258. A panel of the names of the persons drawn as grand
jurors, with their places of residence and occupations,and stating
for what court they were drawn, must then be made and certified

by the clerk and the attending oiiieers, and delivered without‘

delay to the sheriff of the county.
§ 259. If the grand jury be drawn for a city court, the fact of

, the return to the grand jury box, of a ballot containing the name

of a person not stated thereon, to reside in the city in which the
court is established, as provided in section 248, must be entered
in the minute of the drawing, and the grand jury must be completed from the names of persons residing in that city.

§ 260. At least six days before the court, the sheriff must
summon the persons named in the panel delivered to him, to
attend the court, by giving Written notice to each of them personally, or by leaving it at his place of residence, with some

person of suitable age and discretion.

§ 261. The sheriff must also return the panel to the court, at
its opening, specifying the persons summoned, and the manner in
which each was notified.

§ 262. The court to which the panel of grand jurors is return»
ed by the sheriff, may impose a fine not exceeding twenty-five
dollars, for each day a grand juror, without reasonable cause,
neglects to attend. If, however, the notice to attend were not
personally served, the fine cannot be imposed, until, upon an order to show cause, an opportunity is afforded him to be heard.

§ 263. At any time after the drawing of the grand jury, the

county clerk or sherili‘ must, without charge, furnish any person
applying therefore, a copy of the panel thereof.

§ 264. The county clerk must preserve the ballots drawn, as
provided in section 257, until after the adjournment of the court,
and must then, if he be also the clerk of that court, or if not,
upon receiving the certilicate mentioned in the next section,

1. Destroy the ballots containing the names of those who were
discharged, for want of a qualification mentioned in section 240, ‘
or by reason of an exemption mentioned in section 241 :

2. Deposit in the grand jury box, the ballots containing the
names of those who did ‘not appear, or were discharged, for any
otherreason than those mentioned in the last subdivision:

3. Deposit in the box of drawn grand jurors, the ballots containing the names of those who attended and served.

§ 265. The clerk of the court, when he is not also the county
clerk, must, within one week after its adjournment, deliver to the
county clerk a certilied list of all the grand jurors returned to
the court, specifying,

1. Those who were discharged for want of qualification, or by
reason of exemption:

2. Those who did not appear, or were discharged for any other
reason 3. Those who attended and served.
§ 266. When a person drawn as a grand juror has attended and

performed his duty, during the year for which his name was returned, he cannot again be required to serve as a grand juror during that year, except as provided in the next section.

§ 267. If a new grand jury list he not returned to_ the county
clerk, before the list for the year is exhausted, he must draw the

grand jurors from the box of drawn grand jurors; and persons so
drawn must be summoned, and must serve, and are subject to the

same penalties for neglect, as if the year had not expired.
§ 268. When a person is drawn both as a grand and trial juror

for the same court, his name must be omitted from the panel of
trial jurors, and another name drawn in its place; but after the

completion of the drawing of trial jurors, his name must be returned to the trial jury box.

ARTICLE IV.

HANNI-ZR OF RETURNING THE TRIAL JURY LIST, EICIPT IN THE CITY
OF NEW'YOBK.

§ 269. The assessors of the several towns or wards in each

county, except the city and county of New-York, at their annual
meeting for the purpose of completing the assessment roll, must

make two lists, the one denominated the county trial jury list,
the other the justices’ jury list, containing the names of persons
to serve as trial jurors, until a new list is returned.

§ 270. In preparing the trial jury lists,the assessors must select
for the county jury list, the names of not more than one-fourth,
nor less than one-fifth of those persons assessed who are known
or believed to be possessed of the qualifications prescribed in section 240, and not entitled to exemption, as provided in section 241. The lists must contain the christian and surname at length,
and the place of residence and occupation, of eachperson named

therein. . g
§ 271. The assessors must divide the justice’s jury list into

' parts, corresponding, in a town, with the number of justices

therein; and in a city, with the number of justice’s districts
therein, and must deliver to each justice in a town and justice’8
clerk in a city, his jury list, duly certified by them. They must

also, without delay,transmit to the county clerk’s office, the county jury list, certified by them. On the justice’s jury list in cities,
there must be placed those jurors only who reside in the city ;
and in all cases the _j urors who reside nearest the justice’s oilice,
must, as far as practicable, be placed on his list. The number of
jurors on the lists may be unequal, reference being had to the 10-’
cation and estimated amount of business of each justice.

§ 272. Each clerk and justice mentioned in the last section,
must keep in his office two suilicient boxes, carefully secured,the
one of which is denominated the undrawn jury box, and the oth~
er the drawn jury box. . A

§ 273. On receiving the justice’s jury list, the clerk or justice
must destroy all ballots remaining in both boxes, and must prepare, and deposit in the undrawn jury box, separate ballots containing the name of each person embraced in the list, and folded
as nearly alike as possible, and so that the name cannot be seen.

ARTICLE v.

\

IAKRER OF RETURNING THE TRIAL JURY LIST, IN THE CITY OF NEW‘
YORK.

§ 274. There is, in the city of N ew-York, an oilicer known as
the commissioner of jurors, who is appointed by the supervisors
of the city and county of New-York, and the judges of the superior court and court of commonp leas of that city, and whoholds
his office during their pleasure. ,
§ 275. His office must be kept at the place designated from
time to time by the board of supervisors, who must also regulate
his compensation, and the number and compensation of his clerks
and assistants. '
§ 276. The commissioner of jurors must annually, between the
irst days of May and June, make and enter in a book known as
the jury register, alist denominated the trial jury list of the city
of New-York, containing the names of persons to serve as trial
jurors in that city and county, until a new list be returned.
§ 277. Every person must, upon the application of the commissioner of jurors, or any of his assistants, give correct information of his knowledge or belief of the liability of a person to serve
as a juror. For his refusal to do so, or his willfully giving incorrect information in respect thereto,’ he is liable to a penalty of

ufty dollars, recoverable in a civil action by the corporation of
the city of New-York.

§ 278. In preparing the trial jury list, the commissioner of
jurors must select the name of every person who is known or belicved to be possessed of the qualifications prescribed in section,
240, and not entitled to exemption, as provided in section 241.

§ 279. As soon after the first day of June in each year, as the.
trial jury list is completed, the commissioner of jurors must publish, for at least ten days, in the manner prescribed by the board
of supervisors, a notice that the trial jury list will be'open at his
06cc daily, between nine o’clock in the forenoon and five o’clock
in the afternoon, for examination and correction, until a specified
day, at least thirty days from the last publication of the notice.

§ 280. The commissioner of jurors must attend at his office, at
the times mentioned in the notice, for the purpose of determining

the right to exemption, of a person, whose name is on the trial
jury list, and may take proof and administer oaths in respect
thereto. 2 ‘

§ 281. Upon proof that a person, whose name is on the trial
jury list, is exempt for any of the causes mentioned in section
241, and not otherwise, the commissioner of jurors must strike
his name from the list,and enter in-a book known as the exemption register,

1. The name of the person exempt:

2. The ground of exemption :

3. The name of the person by whose certificate or oath the
exemption was proved : and

4. The day when the name was stricken from the list.

§ 282. Within ten days after the time appointed for the examination and correction of the trial jury list, as provided in section 279, the commissioner of jurors must file with the county clerk,
a certified copy of the list as corrected.
§ 283. He must also, within the same time, make and deliver

to the clerk of the justices’ court of each justices’ district in the
city of New-York, a certified list denominated the justices’jury
list, containing the name, place of residence, and occupation of

each person embraced in the corrected trial jury list, who resides
in the district.

§ 284. Each clerk mentionedin the last two sections must keep
in his office two sufficient boxes, carefully secured, the one of

which‘ is denominated the undrawn jury box, and the other the

drawn jury box.

§ 285. On receiving the trial or justices’ jury list, as provided
in sections 282 and 283, both inclusive, the clerk must destroy
all ballots remaining in both boxes, and must prepare and deposit

in the undrawn jury box, separate ballots, containing the name,
place of residence and occupation of each person embraced in
the list, and folded as nearly alike as possible, and so that the
name cannot be seen. _

§ 286. If, after the return of a trial jury list, the commissioner
of jurors discover that the name of a person, qualified to act as

ajuror and not exempt, has been omitted, he must give written

notice to the person so omitted, to appear at his office at a specined time, at least five days after the service, to show cause why

his name should not be placed on the trial jury list. The notice

must be served on the person to whom it is directed, personally,
or by delivering it to a person of suitable age and discretion, at

his place of residence.

§ 287. If the person so served, fail to appear or to show by
proof, as prescribed in section 280, that he is exempt, his name
must be immediately returned to the county clerk, and to the
clerk of the justices’ court, in the district in which he resides, in
the manner provided in sections 282 and 283, in respect to the
original trial orjustices’ jury list; and a ballot containing the
name, must be prepared and deposited in the undrawn jury box,
in the manner provided in section 285.

ARTICLE VI.

nuwrxo Arm smmonmc rns. TRIAL mu! 1-‘on rm: cmcorrs AND
oomrrs or once AND 'r1-znmrnsn, THE sum-zmon counr AND
cover or common mass or rm-3 cm‘? or NEW-YORK, ran,
COURTS or-‘ snssrons, AND rm-: oouzrrr, sunuoearns’ AND crrr
oomrrs.

§ 288. A trial jury, when required for either of the courts embraced in this article, must be drawn from the undrawn jury box’
of the county in which the court is held. But it’ it be drawn for
a city court, the clerk must return to the box, every ballot containing the name of a person not stated thereon to reside in the
city in which the court is established.

§ 289. A trial jury must be drawn,

1. For every circuit:

2. For every trial term of the superior court or court of common pleas of the city of New-York : 2
3. For every term of the court of sessions of the city of NewYork: and
4. For every term of a city court.

§ 290. A trial jury may also be drawn,
1. For a term of a "county court or of a court of sessions, except in the city and county of New-York, when specially ordered
by the county judge or by the board of supervisors : ‘

2'. For a surrogate’s court, when specially ordered by the court,»
in the cases and manner prescribed in this code.

§ 291. The order when made for a county court or court of
sessions, may require that the trial jury be drawn for a particular
term; when made by a surrogate’s court, that it be drawn for a
time and place specified in the order. In either of the cases mentioned in this section, the order must specify the number of jurors
to be drawn,’ not exceeding thirty-six, and the name of the court
for which they are to be drawn. . .

§ 292. If made by the cburt, the order must be entered upon
its minutes, and a copy thereof filed with the county clerk, at
least thirty days before the day for which the jury is ordered.
If made by the board of supervisors, a copy thereof, certined by
the clerk of the board, must be filed with the county clerk at
least thirty days before the day for which the jury is ordered;
and when so filed, is conclusive evidence of the authority for
drawing the jury. ' ‘

§ 293. A misdescription, however, of the title of the court,
does not afect the validity of the order, if it can be plainly understood therefrom what court is intended.

§ 294. The number of jurors drawn for the courts mentioned
in section 289, must be as follows:

1 . For a circuit, in the city and county of New-York, seventytwo, and in every other county thirty-six:

2. For the ' superior court, or court of common pleas, of the
city of N ew-York, seventy-two:

3. For the court of sessions of the city of New-York, seventytwo: . .

4. For a city court, thirty-six.

§ 295. The trial jurors, duly drawn and summoned for a cir_cuit, are the trial jurors for a court of oyer and terminer held at
the same time; and those drawn and summoned for a city court
are, in like manner, the trial jurcrs in criminal actions therein.

§ 296. The provisions of sections 254 to 267, both inclusive,
in respect to grand jurors (substituting the word trial in place of
the word grand), apply to trial jurors in all the courts embraced

in this article.

ARTICLE VII.

QLWIFG AND SUHMONING THE TRIAL JURY FOR THE KLEIN! 0008'!‘
01-‘ THE CITY OF NEW-YORK.

§ 297. A trial jury, when required for the marine court of the
guy of New-York, must be drawn from the undrawn jury box of
that city. ,

§ 298. A trial jury of twenty persons must be drawn for this
court, for every alternate Monday, commencing with the first

Monday of January, 1851, to serve until the second Saturday, ~

inclusive, after the day for which they were drawn.

§ 299. The drawing must take place publicly, at the office of
the county clerk, on the Wednesday preceding the day for which
the jury is drawn, and must be conducted by him in the manner
prescribed in section 257, in respect to grand jurors, except that
noother officer need be present. He must also immediately deliver to the clerk of this court a certified list of the persons
drawn as jurors, with their places of residence and occupations,
and stating that they were drawn for this court, and the day for
which they were drawn. _

§ 300. The clerk of this court must immediately deliver the
list to a constable or to a policeman detailed by the mayor to attend the court, with a written notice directed to each person

named in the list, requiring him to attend as a trial juror at this
court on the day for which the jury was drawn. 

§ 301. The officer must thereupon, at least three days before
the court, summon each of the persons named in the list, by
giving him the notice mentioned in the last section personally, or
by leaving it at his place of residence with some person of suitable age and discretion; and must return the list to the court, at
its opening on the day for which the jury was drawn, specifying
the persons summoned and the manner in which each was notiBed. 11 the officer be a policeman heis not entitled to any fee
for summoning the jury.

§ 302. When the list is returned the court may impose a fine,
not exceeding ten dollars, for each day a juror, without reasonable cause, neglects to attend. But if the notice were not personally served, the line cannot be imposed until, upon an order to
show cause an opportunity is afforded him to be heard.
§ 303. The county clerk must preserve the ballots drawn, as

‘provided in section 264, until after the expiration of the period
of service for which the jury was drawn. The clerk of this court

must then deliver to him a certified list of the persons returned,
in the manner prescribed in section 265 ; and the county clerk
must thereupon dispose of the ballots retained, as provided in section 264.

§ 304. The provisions of sections 266 and 267, in respect to

grand jurors (substituting the word trial in place of the word
grand), apply to trial jurors in this court.

ARTICLE VIII.

DRAWING AND BUMMONING THE TRIAL JURY FOB TED JUSTICB8’ AND
POLICE COURTS.

§ 305. A trial jury, when required for a justice’s or police
court, must be drawn from the undrawn jury box of the justice
or justices’ district.

§ 306. A trial jury of twelve persons must be publicly drawn,

1. For a justice’s court, when demanded by either party, at the
time when an issue of fact is joined:

2. For a police court, when demanded by the defendant, at
the time of pleading, unless he plead guilty.

§ 307. The justice or clerk of the court for which the jury is
drawn must immediately deliver the list to a constable or marshal of the city or town, with a written notice directed to each

person named in the list, requiring him to attend as a juror at a‘

time and place specified therein.
§ 308. The oilicer must thereupon immediately summon each

of the persons named in the list, by giving him the notice mentioned in the last section personally, or by leaving it at his place

of residence with some person of suitable age and discretion,and
must return the list to the court, at its opening on the day for
which the jury was drawn, specifying thepersons summoned,and
the manner in which each was notified.

§ 309. The court to which the list is returned, may impose a
line, not exceeding five dollars, for the neglect of a juror, without

reasonable cause, to attend. But if the notice were not personally served, the line cannot be imposed, until, upon an order to
show cause, an opportunity is afforded him to be heard.

§ 310. The provisions of sections 266 and 267, in respect to

grand jurors (substituting the word justices’ in place of the word
grand), apply to justices’ jurors.

ARTICLE IX.

DRAWING AND SUMMONING THE TRIAL JURY, IN SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS.

§ 311. The trial jury in a special proceeding in a court, is the
same which is drawn and summoned for the trial of questions of
fact therein. ‘

§ 312. A trial jury, when required in a special proceeding before a judicial onicer, as provided in this code, must be drawn as
follows :

1. If before a justice of the peace or of a justi'ce’s court, from
the justice’s undrawn jury box:

2. If before any other judicial officer, from the undrawn jury
box of the county in which the trial is to be had. But if it be
before ajudge elected in the city, the clerk must return to the
box, every ballot containing the name of a person not stated
therein to reside in the city in which the trial is to be had.

§ 313. The order for a jury must specify the number of jurors
to be drawn; and when made by a judicial officer other than a

justice of the peace or of a justice’s court in a city, must specify
the time and place for which it is to be drawn. ‘

§ 314. The jury, in a special proceeding before a justice, must
be drawn and summoned as provided in sections 305, 307 and
308, and the provisions of sections 266 and 267 (substituting the
word trial in place of the word grand), and of section 309 (substituting the word justice in place of the Word court), are applicable thereto. .
§ 315. When drawn in a proceeding before any other -judicial

officer, it must be drawn by the county clerk, in the manner provided in section 257: and the provisions of sections 266 and 267
(substituting the word trial in place of the word grand), and of section 309 (substituting the word judge in place of the word
court), are applicable thereto.

ARTICLE X.

HANNIZB OI’ RETURNING A SPECIAL ‘l'RlAL'JURY.

§ 316. A special jury may be ordered, on motion, by the supreme court, the superior court or court of common pleas of the
city of New-York, or a county, city or surrogate’s court, for the
trial of a question of fact in a civil action or in a special proceeding of a civil nature, when the importance or intricacy of the

case requires it, or a fair and impartial trial cannot otherwise be
hadi

§ 317. The party obtaining the order must give notice of at

least five days, of the time when he will attend before the county
clerk, for the purpose of selecting the names of persons to form

the jury.

§ 318. At the time appointed, the county clerk must attend at
his oiiice, with the list of trial jurors of the county, and publicly
select the persbns to form the jury in the following manner:

1. He must select from the trial jury list, the names of fortyeight persons, indifferent between the parties, and in his judgment best qualiiied to try the question:

2. The parties or their attorneys, must then, alternately, commencing with the party who obtained the order, strike out one
of the names of the persons selected, until each party shall have
stricken out twelve names:

3. If either party fail to attend, or neglect to strike out twelvio
names, as provided in the last subdivision, the clerk must dojao
for him :

4. The clerk must thereupon deliver to the sheriil‘, a panel of
the twenty-four persons not stricken out, and must certify that
they are the persons selected to form the special jury.

§ 319. If, upon the motion for a special jury, it appear that the

clerk is a party to, or interested in the action or proceeding, or is

related toeither of the parties thereto, by consanguinity or ailinity within the fifth degree, or for any other cause is not impartial
between the parties, the court must appoint two impartial persons
to select the jury, who must perform the duties imposed upon
the clerk ‘by the last section.

§ 320. The sheriff must summon the persons whose names are
contained on the panel delivered to him, as provided in section
260, and make return thereof as provided in section 261.

§ 321. The jury must be formed from the persons summoned

and appearing, in the manner prescribed by this code in respect ‘

to other jurors; and the court has‘ the same power to line, excuse
or discharge any of them, as in other cases.

CHAPTER - II.

REFER EE8.

§ 322. A referee is a person appointed by the court, or a judi- .

cini oilicer, _
1. To try an issue of law or of fact in a civil action,and report.

ajndgment thereon:
2. To ascertain any other fact in a civil action or in a special

proceeding -of a civil nature, when necessary for the information

of the court, and report the fact either with or -without his opinion thereon :

3. To execute an order or judgment.

§ 323. The appointment of a referee, is denominated a reference.

§ 324. Upon the agreement of the ‘parties to a civil action or a
proceeding of a civil nature, filed with the clerk or entered upon
the minutes, a reference may be ordered,

1. To try any or all of the issues in a civil action, whether of
fact or of law (except an issue of fact when the action is for a
divorce dissolving the marriage contract), and to report a iudgneat thereon : '

2. To hear and determine a suit pending in the supreme court,
before the first day of July, 1848, or any issue therein, whether of
fact or of law, or both (except an issue of fact when the suit is
for a divorce dissolving the marriage contract), or to report facts,
therein: or,

3. To execute a judgment or order, in an action or suit.embraced in this section, except when an execution is theiappropriate
remedy, as provided in this code. \

4. To try an issue or ascertain a fact, in a special proceeding of
a civil nature.

§ 325. When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon
the application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference
inthe follo wing cases: i

1. When the trial of an issue of fact requires the examination

of along account on either side; in which case, the referees may‘
be directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or to report upon
any specific question of fact involved ‘therein : ‘

2. When the taking of an account is necessary for the information of the court, before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or
order into effect: - ' '

 When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings,ari- ses upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action: or

4. When it is necessary for the information of the court, in a

special proceeding of a civil nature.
§ 326. A reference may be ordered,in a civil action or in aspe-cial proceeding of a civil nature, in any court except 'a justice’s
court or the marine court of the city of New-York. . It may be so .

ordered at a special or trial term or circuit, or by a judge of the
court, but by no other officer. ‘
§ 327. A reference may be ordered to any person or persons

not exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If the parties
do notagree, the court or judge must appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three, who reside in the county in which the
action or proceeding is triable. I
§ 328. When the appointment of referees is made by the court

or a judge, the referee must be,
1. Qualified as a juror, as provided in section 240 :

2. Competent as a juror between the parties: or,

\

3.‘ Not related, by consanguinity or afiinity within the third de- .

gree, to the judge by whom the court is held, or the order made
or to one who is interested or connected as a partner with a person so related. ’ A

§ 329. The fees of referees are three dollars to each for every

_day spent in the business of the reference; but the parties may

agree in uniting hpon any other rate of compensation, and that
such rate must be allowed.
CHAPTER III.
COMMISSIONERS OF DEEDS.
§ 330. Commissioners of deeds are appointed in, counties or
cities, in pursuance of special statutes, and the tenure of their of
iices is provided for in the same manner.
§ 331. A commissioner of deeds has power, in the’ county or
city in. which he is appointed, and in no other place, to take and
certify, - ‘

1. The proof or acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property, or of any other written instrument:
2. The acknowledgment of satisfaction of ajudgment in any

court, including a judgment of a justice’s court, or of the marine
court of the city of New-York, when a transcript thereof has been
filed with a county clerk: I '

3. An affidavit to be used in any court of justice of this state:
and '

4. To exercise any other power, and peform any other duty
conferred or imposed upon him by this code,or by other statutes.

§ 332. The commissioner may receive for his services, under the
first and second subdivisions of the last section, twenty-five cents’;
under the third subdivision, ten cents ; and under the fourth, such
fee as may be prescribed by ‘special statutes.

CHAPTER IV.

' @fI83IOFER8 TO TAKE AFFIDAVITS, AND THE PROOF AND ACKNOWLnncumrr or mans, our or nus sum.

§ 333. The governor may appoint as many commissioners, in
each of the other states, or in a territory of the United States, or
in the District of Columbia, as he may deem expedient, who shall
hold their offices for three years, and may in the state, territory
or district for which they are appointed, and in no other place,

take and certify,
1. The proof or acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property, or of any other written instrument:

2. The acknowledgment of satisfaction of a judgment in any
court, including a judgment of a justice’s court, or of the marine
court of the city of N ew-York, when a transcript thereof has

been med with a county clerk:

3. An aiiidavit to be used in any court of justice of this state:
and A

4. To exercise any other power, and perform any other duty
conferred or imposed upon them ‘by this code,or by other statutes.

§ 334. A commissioner appointed under the last section must,
before he can exercise the powers therein conferred, take and subscribe an oath before a judicial officer in the county or city where
he resides, faithfully to perform the duties of the office of a commissioner to take aiiidavits and the proof and acknowledgment of

deeds out of this state, according to the laws thereof; and must
file the oath in the office of the secretary of this state.

TITLE IV.

(H?THElHNHHTBLMLOFFKEmS(N?THECDURT80EJUBTKEh

CHAPTER I.

THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.

§ 335. The attorney general is elected by the electors of the
state, for two years,or, when his office becomes vacant, is appointed, in the manner prescribed by the constitution and by special
statutes.

§ 336. He receives for his services, a compensation established
by special statutes, which cannot be increased or diminished during his continuance in oiiice, and is prohibited from receiving to
his own use, any fees or perquisites of office or_ other compensation. . _
§ 337. He may be removed from oiiice by the court for the
trial of impeachments, upon an impeachment by the assembly, for
willful and corrupt misconduct in office.

§ 338. The attorney general has power and it is his duty,

1*. To prosecute and defend all civil actionsor special proceedings of a civil nature, to which the people of this state are a party,
or in which they are interested:

2. To collect, if possible, costs adjudged to the people of this
state, in an action prosecuted by him, to which they are a party
on in which they are interested, and when collected, pay them

into the state treasury, deducting his legal disbursements in the
prosecution or defense of the action :

3. Upon the requisition of the ‘comptroller, or the state engineer and surveyor, to prepare the draft of a contract, obligation

or other instrument required for the use of the state:

4. Upon the requisition of the governor, to attend a court of
oyer and terminer or sessions, for the purpose of conducting a
criminal action prosecuted by the people of this state:

5. Upon the requisition of the governor, the secretary of state,
the comptroller, the treasurer, or the state engineer and surveyor,
to prosecute a person charged with the commission of a public
offense, in violation of statutes which either of those officers is

\

specially required to execute, or in relation to matters connected

with the department of either of them : V _

6. To cause a person indicted for corrupting, or attempting to
corrupt a member, or a member elect of the legislature, or a commissioner of the land office, or for an o&‘ence against the statutes

for the prevention of duelling, to be brought to trial without delay; and to attend in person to the discharge of this duty:

7. When he ascertains that real property, mortgaged to the
people of this state is encumbered by prior mortgages or judgments, to discharge those liens and take an assignment thereof to
the people, with the consent of the comptroller ; and to receive
the necessary monies for this purpose out of the state treasury:

8. With the consent of the comptroller, to redeem, in the manner provided in this code, real property mortgaged to the people
of this state, or purchased for them on the foreclosure of a mortgage, when sold upon a prior judgment: ,

9. To acknowledge satisfaction of a judgment in favor of the
people of this state, when‘ it is satisfied by payment, or when he

is directed by the legislature: _
10. To attend the legislature during its session, and to report

on all matters referred to him by the legislature, or by the senate
or assembly : _

11. To administer oaths, in all matters relating to his odice, in
respect to which he may legally require proof:

12. To exercise any other power conferred upon him by the
constitution, or by this code, or by special statutes.

§ 339. When -money is due to the people of this state, by several mortgages or contracts of the same nature, and executed by
the same person, one action only can be commenced by the attorney general for the recovery thereof. .

§ 340. When separate actions. are instituted by the attorney
general, in behalf of the people of this state, against several persons on the same mortgage or contract, or who claim under the

same title, he must, upon the request of the defendants, consent to a consolidation of the actions into one.

§ 341. All monies received by the attorney general, for debts
aim or penalties forfeited to the people of this state, must be paid
by him, immediately after the receipt thereof, into the treasury,

§ 342. The attorney general cannot act as attorney, in a civil

action or in a special proceeding of a civil nature, unless the people of this state are a party or interested therein; nor,can he act
as counsel in such action or proceeding, for a private party against
whom a criminal action for a felony is pending, or who is the
prosecutor therein. 3

§ 343. He must keep, in suitable books provided at the expense of the state, a register of all civil actions and special proceedings of a civil nature, prosecuted or defended by him in behalf of the people,_and of the proceedings in relation thereto; and
must deliver the same to his successor in oiiice. ' '

§ 344. There must be kept in the oilice of the attorney general
a record of the statistics of litigation in the state, comprehending
in tabular form,

1. The number of general terms held, with the time when the

term commenced and the place where it was held:
In the court of appeals:

In_ the supreme court: _ I
In the superior court of the city of N ew-York :

In the court of common pleas of the city of New-York:
And showing in respect to each term,
The number of judges present:

The number of days actual session of the court:

The whole number of hours of actual session of the court ;
The number of cases on the calendar:

The number of cases contested, argued or submitted:

The number not reached on the calendar for want of time ;
The number decided by the court during the term which
weresubmitted or argued at the same term: '
The number decided by the court which were arguedzor submitted at a {receding term: I ‘
2. The number of circuits and courts of oyer and terminer in
each county : ’ '

The number of trial terms in the superior court and court of
common pleas of the city of N ew-York :

The number of days’ actual session of the court:
The average number of hours’ session of the court daily: _

The number of civil cases on the ‘calendar fortrial at each
term :

The number actually tried and contested, excluding judgments upon,failure to answer: T
The number ‘not reached on the calendar for want of time:
3. The number of criminal actions tried, including convictions
by confession in each county :
The whole number of convictions:
The number of convictions under each of the following
heads: Murder, manslaughter, arson, robbery, burglary,
rape, thefts over fifty dollitrs, other felonies, all other offenses.

§ 345. The attorney general must prepare and- cause to be
printed blank tabular forms for the proper returns from the clerks
of the several courts, embracing the particulars specified in the
last section, and to transmit annually in the tirst week in July a
sufficient number of such blanks for one year’s returns to the

clerks of the several courts mentioned in section -—-—.

4. The several reports when received from the clerks must be
filed and preserved with the records of the attorney general’s
office, and he must annually on or. before -the first Monday of Decemberin each year, compile the statistical record of litigation in

the state, required in section 344, which shall be duly recorded

and certified by him in a book to be kept for that purpose in his
othee.

CHAPTER 11.

DISTRICT ATTORN EY8.

§ 346. There is a district attorney in each county in this state,
who is elected by the electors of the county, or, when his office

becomes vacant, is appointed in the manner prescribed by the
constitution and by special statutes. . '

§ 347. The district attorney may be removed from odice, by
the court for the trial of i.npeachment_s, upon an impeachment by
the assembly, for willful and corrupt misconduct in office.

§ 348. The district attorney in each county, is the public protecutor therein. ‘

§ 349. He must attend the courts of oyer and terminer and seslion: in his county, and the city court, if any, having criminal

jurisdiction therein, and conduct, on behalf of the people, all
prosecutions for public offenses. ‘ _

§ 350. If he fail to attend any of those courts, the court must
designate another person to perform the duties of the district attorney during his absence from the court, who shall receive a
reasonable compensation, to be certified by the court, and paid

from the county treasury.

§ 351. The district attorney must also institute proceedings
before magistrates, for the arrest of persons charged with or reasonably suspected of public offenses, when he has information
that any such offense has been committed; and for that purpose
must attend upon the magistrate, in cases of arrest, when required by him, and must advise the grand jury, when asked to do so,
as provided in the Code of Criminal Procedure.

§ 352. The district attorney must prosecute for all penalties
and forfeitures to the people of this state, exceeding fifty dollars,
which may be incurred in his county, and for which no other
manner‘ of collection is provided by statute.

§ 353. When he receives money or property in his otliclal capacity, he must deliver a receipt therefore to the person frorn
whom he receives it, and file a duplicate thereof with the county
treasurer.

§ 354. He must, on or before the first Tuesday of October in
each year, file in the office of the county treasurer an account in
writing, verified by oath, of all money received by him in his otlieial capacity during the preceding year; and must at the:8ame
time ’pay it over to the county treasurer.

§ 355. If he refuse or neglect to account for and pay over money so received by him, as required by the last section, the county treasurer must bring an action against him for the recovery
thereof, in the name of the county.

§ 356. The district attorney of each county shall receive an

annual salary, to be fixed by the board of supervisors of the county, and paid out of the county treasury.

§ 357. His salary must, at each annual meeting of the board
cofsupervisors in November, be fixed for the ensuing year, and
must be paid quarterly out_ of the‘ county treasury ; but at the
end-of the year, the board may make such additional allowaricea

.as.arc reasonable, for extraordinary services performed during

the year; and no district attorney can receive any other compensation, costs or fees, for a service rendered in his otiicial capacity.
§ 358. The district attorney cannot act as counsel, in a civil

action or in a special proceeding of a civil nature, for a private
party against whom a criminal action for a felony is pending, or
who is the prosecutor therein. '

§ 359. The district attorney must keep a register of his ofhcial
business, in which must be entered a note of every indictment,
the time when it was found, and the proceedings thereon. The
register must, at the expiration of his term of office, be delivered
by him to his successor in office.

\

CHAPTER III.

THE BTATE REPORTER.

§ 360. The state reporter is appointed by the governor, lieutenant governor and attorney general, and holds his oilice for
three years, but may be sooner removed by the legislature, a
majority of the members elected to each house voting lor his
removal. His compensation is fixed by special statutes.

§ 361 . The state reporter must report and publish, within thirty
days after the adjournment of each term of the court of appeals,
a concise outline of the facts and decision in every case determined at that term. He must also, as soon after as practicable,
publish a full report of the cases, with the opinions of the court
delivered to him for that purpose ; omitting, however, every
opinion dissenting from a decision, except in a case involving the
construction of the constitution of this state or of the United
States, and except such as the court may direct him to publish.

§ 362. The state reporter can have no pecuniary interest in the
publication of the reports, nor can a copyright for the opinions
be secured by him or any other person : but they are free for

publication by all. ‘ ,
§ 363. The reports must be published in pampfilet form, under

the supervision of the state reporter, by contract, as prescribed
by special statutes,” and designated “The New-York Reports.”

Each volume must contain at least six hundred pages, with a
suitable table of the names of the cases reported, head notes to

each case, and an index of the principal matters contained in

each volume. Their sale and distribution is provided for special
statutes.

CHAPTER IV.

THE CLERK8 OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICE.

. . . ARTICLE I.

THE CLERK8 OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICE, IN GENERAL.

§ 364. The following courts and no other, have clerks:
1. The court for the trial of impeachments: '

2. The court of appeals: ,

3. The supreme court: '

4. The superior ‘court of the city of New-York: ’

6. The court of common pleas of the city of New-York:
6'. The courts of oyer and terminer: '

'7. The county courts:

8. The courts of sessions:

9. The city courts :
10. The justices’ courts of the cities of Albany, Hudson, New‘ York and Troy:
11. The marine court of the city'of New-York:
12. The policecourts in the city of New-York:

§ 365. Except where their compensation is fixed by special
statutes, the clerks are entitled for their services, to receive to
their own use the fees provided in the next section. When their
compensation is fixed by special statutes, they must receive those
fees, and account for and pay them over in’ the manner therein
provided. ' _

§ 366. The clerk may receive,

On every trial, from the party bringing it on, one dollar:

On entering judgment, fifty cents ; except in courts where the
‘clerks receive salaries ; and in such courts, one dollar:

On docketing a judgment rendered by ajustice, and filing a
true copy.thereof', twenty-five cents, including execution when

issued: A
He can receive no other fee for any service whatever, in a civil

action or special proceeding, except for copies of papers, at the
rate of five cents for everyhundred words.

§ 367. The clerks are elected or appointed in the manner prescribed by the constitution and by special statutes, except as pro, vided in this article. Their qualifications for and tenure of office,

and the manner of their removal therefrom and of filling a
vacancy therein, are provided for in the same manner.

§ 368. The clerk of the senate is, by virtue of.his office, theclerlr of the court for the trial of impeachments.

§ 369. The clerk of the court of appeals ‘is, by virtue of his
office, clerk of the supreme court. ‘ '

§ 370. The county clerk of each county is, by virtue of his
once, the clerk, in his county, of each of the following courts :

1. The supreme court :
2. The courts of oyer and terminer and sessions, except in the

city and county of N ew-York :
3. The county court.
§ 371. There are six police clerks in the city of New-York,

A who are appointed by the common council of that city, and hold

their offices for four years. They are assigned to police districts,
in the manner prescribed by the common council, under the
authority of special statutes, and are, by virtue of their offices,
clerks of the police courts in the districts to which they are thus
assigned.

§ 372. The court of common pleas of the city of New-York
shall have a clerk, to be appointed by the court, until the legisla~

ture otherwise provide, and to hold his office during the pleasure
of the court. ‘

§ 373. The common council of the city of New-York, must, by
ordinance, assign the clerk so appointed, a suitable office in the
city hall in that city. The board of supervisors must regulate
his compensation and the number and compensation of his clerks,’

which compensation must bepaid out of the fees received by the

clerk, in the manner provided by special statutes, in respect to .

the clerk of the superior court.
§ 374. The county clerk of the city and county of New-York
must also, on demand, deliver all property, books, records, and

Pipers appertaining to the court of common pleas, to the clerk
of that court.

ARTICLE II.

pow:-ms arm norms or -ran cm-zaxs or -run counrs or JUSTICE.
§ 375. It is the duty of the clerk of each of the courts mentioned in section 364, except, the police clerks in the city of
N e-w-York,
1. To keep the seal of the court, and afiix it in cases mentioned
in section 200, and to any other writ, when required to do so:
2. To record the proceedings of the court:
3. To keep the records, and other books and papers appertaining to the court: '
4. To file all papers delivered to him for that purpose, in an
action or special proceeding in the court: ‘ ‘
5. To attend the terms and circuits of the court of which he

is clerk; to administer oaths in an action or special proceeding,
in the presence of the court, and under its direction; and to

receive the verdict of a jury :
6._ To keep the minutes of the proceedings of the court, at its

terms or circuits, and under the direction of the court, to enter

its orders and judgments: .
7'. To authenticate, by certificate or exempliiication, as may be

required,-the records or proceedings of the court, or any other
paper appertaining thereto, and filed with him:

8. To deposit all monies paid, or brought into court, and de- ‘

livered to’ him, with the county treasurer, as provided in this
«code:

- 9. To exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred
and imposed upon him by other provisions of this code, or by

other statutes:
10. In the performance of his duties, to conform to the directions of the court.

§ 376. It is the duty of each of the police clerks in the city
of New-York, V

1. To prepare, under the direction of the magistrate, all papers
appertaining to any matter pending before him, when acting as a.
magistrate or holding a police court :

2. To keep the records and other papers appertaining to the
police office or police court:

3. To attend at the police office to which he is assigned, at such
times as are or may be prescribed by ordinance, by the common
council of that ‘city:

4. To attend the police court in the district to which he is assigned; to keep the minutes of its proceedings; under its direction, to enter its orders and judgments; and to authenticate its
proceedings by his certificate: ' d

5. To exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred
and imposed upon him by the code of criminal procedure.

§ 377. The clerk of each of the courts mentioned in section
364, has power to take affidavits to be read or used in a court or
before a judicial officer; but when the clerk is elected or appointed in a county, city, town or district, his power in this
respect is coextensive therewith only. '

§ 378. When money is paid or brought into court for any purpose, in an action or special proceeding, the clerk must within
five days thereafter deliver the same to the treasurer of the
county, by whom it must be kept subject to the order of the
court.

ARTICLE III.

In more or KEEPING ran curnxs’ orrrcns, AND nu-zrn or-‘non
nouns. ’

§ 379. The office of the clerk of the court of appeals‘ must be
hpt in the state hall in the city of Albany; that of the clerk of
every other court, in the building provided for that purpose, by
ihosupervisors of the county or the common council of the city
in which the court is held. ‘
§ 380. Each of the clerks must keep his office open for the
transaction of business, on every day, except those mentioned in section 180, as follows: .
1. In the city of New-York, from nine in the forenoon to four
o’clock in the afternoon :
2. In every other part of the state, from eight to twelve in the
forenoon, and from one to live o’clock in the afternoon.

ARTICLE Iv.

DEPUTY CLERKS .

§ 381. The clerk of the court of appeals, the. county clerks,

and the clerks of the city courts and of the superior court and
courts of common °pleas‘and sessions of the city of New-York,

must each have a deputy, appointed by him in writing, and to
continue during his pleasure. The appointment must be filed in
the office of the clerk by whom it is made.

§ 382. The deputy clerk must attend at the oiiice of the clerk
during the oiiice hours prescribed in section 380, and must perform such services relating to the duties of the clerk, as may be
required by that officer.

§ 383. When theoffice of the clerk is vacant, or, by reason of
his absence from the office or other disability, he is unable to perform his duties, they may be performed by the deputy.
ARTICLE V.

REMOVAL OF PAPERS FROM ONE CLERK’S OFFICE OF THE SUPREME
COURT TOTANOTHER:

§ 384. The supreme court may, for good cause, on motion, direct the removal from one clerk’s office to another, of records or
other papers relating to an action or proceeding therein.

A ARTICLE VI.

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS, RESPECTINC THE CLERKS AND DEPUTY
CLERK8 OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICE.

§ 385. The clerk of each of the courts mentioned in section
381, must, within one week after the close of term or‘ _circuit,
prepare duplicate reports of the business in his court, by filing
the blanks transmitted to him by the attorney general, pursuant
to notice, one of which duplicates must be filed and preserved in
his office, and the other he must immediately ' transmit to the attorney general. For his services under this section, the clerk is
entitled to the same fees as for certified copies of papers; and the

expense thereof is a county charge.

§ 386. The clerk of each of the courts mentioned in section

381, and his deputy, are prohibited during their continuance in
office, '

1. From acting, or having a partner who acts, as an attorney
or counsellor therein:

2. From being interested in the costs or fees in an action or
proceeding therein, except when they are parties to the action or
proceeding,or interested in the subject thereof.

CHAPTER V.
snnntrrs.

ARTICLE I .
_ sruznrrrs, AND THEIR norms, IN GENERAL:

§ 387. There is a sheriff in each of the counties of this state,
who is elected by the electors of the county, at a general election,
once in every three years, and as often as there is a vacancy. The
manner of his election and removal, of giving and renewing his
omcial bonds, and of supplying a vacancy in his office, is prescribed by the constitution and by special statutes. His compensatiou in respect to civil actions and special procedings, is prescribed by this code.

§ 388. The sherili‘ is the chief executive oiiicer, and conservator of the peace of his county.

§ 389. In the execution of his office, it is his duty,

1. To arrest and commit to prison, all persons who break the
peace or attempt to break it, and all persons guilty of public

ofences :,
2. To delcnd his county against the public enemies, and against

those who, by riot, or otherwise endanger the public peace or,
safety : . x

3. To execute the. process and orders°of the courts of justice
or of judicial oiiicers, when delivered to him for that purpose,
according to the provisions of this code, or of the code of criminal procedure :

4. To execute all warrants delivered to him for that purpose,
by other public officers, according to the provisions of special
statutes : ‘ ,

.5. To attend the term of a court within his county (except a

justice’s court or the marine court of the city of New-York),
when required by the court, and to obey its lawful orders and

. directions :

6. To exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and
imposed upon him by the constitution, and by.other statutes:

7. In the execution of these powers and duties, to command
the aid of as many maie inhabitants of his county, as he may
think proper, and any.military company or companies, armed and
equipped.

§ 390. A sheriff can hold no other office, and is ineligible for
the next three years after the termination of his office. '

§ 391. The county is not responsible for the acts‘ of the sheriff'.

ARTICLE II.

snnarrrs’ orrrcss, AND OFFICE nouns.

§ 392. The sheriff must keep an office in the place in which
the county court house is situated, of which he must file a. notice
in the office of the county clerk. If there be more than one such
place, the notice must state in which of them the office is kept,
or it may be kept in each.

§ 393. The sheritl’s office must be kept open on the days, and
during the hours, mentioned in section 380.

§ 394. Service of a paper upon the sheriff may be made by delivering it to a person belonging to and in the oilice during office
hours, or it‘ no such person be there, by leaving it in the office.
If, however, no notice of the place of keeping his office ; be filed,
the service may be made at the county clerk’s office, upon the
county clerk or his deputy. The service, in the cases provided
in this section, is equivalent to a personal service on the sheriff.

ARTICLE’ III.

UNDER AND DEPUTY SHEBIFF8.

§ 395. The sheritl‘, immediately after entering upon his office,
must appoint an under sheriff, to hold during his pleasure: and
must make a similar appointment, as often as a vacancy occurs in
the office of under sheriff. He may also appoint as many deputies as he thinks proper; and ‘may grant a special written authority to any otheriperson to do a particular act.

§ 396. The appointment of an under sheriff and of a deputy
sheriii‘, must be in writing, and filed in the oliice of the county

clerk. The person appointed must also,‘ before entering upon his '

oiiice, take and file with the county clerk, the‘ constitutional oath
of oiiice. '

§ 397. The under sheriff must perform such services relating
to the duties of the sheriff, as may be required by that officer. A
deputy sheriff must execute all orders or process of a court or judicial oiiicer, delivered to him for that purpose, and may perform
every act incidental thereto.

§ 398. During a vacancy in the oilice of sheriff the under sheriii must act as sheriff, and his neglect or misconduct in oilice is

abreach of the official bond of the sheriff by whom he was appointed as well as of the security given by him to the sheriff.

ARTICLE IV.

DUTIES OF OFFICERS IN THE EXECUTION AND RETURN OF PROCESS.

§ 399. When process of any description is delivered to an oilioer, to be executed, he must deliver to the person delivering it,
ifrequired,on payment of his fee, a written memorandum, signed
by him, specifying the names of the parties in the process, the
general nature thereof, and the day on which it was received.

He must also, upon the request of the party served, without fee,deliver to him a copy thereof.

§ 400. An oilicer to whom process is delivered must execute it
lccording to its command, or as required by this code or by spechi ‘statutes, and must make a written return of the execution
thereof. For a failure to do so hetis liable to an action, at the
suit of the party aggrieved, for the damages sustained by him, in
addition to any other fine or punishment.ARTICLE V.

noctnnises in case or nnsrsraucn TO THE EXECUTION or naocxss.
, _

§ 401. When an officer finds or has reason to apprehend that
resistance will be made to the execution of process delivered to
him for service, he may command as many male inhabifants of

his county as he may think proper, and any military compqny or
Wmpanies in the county, armed and equipped, to assist him in
overcoming the resistance, and,if necessary, in seizing, arresting
and confining the resistors and their aiders and abettors, to be
Punished according to law. .

_ guilty of a misdemeanor.

§ 402. Every person commanded by an oiiicer to assist him in
the execution of process, as provided in section 401, who, without lawful cause, refuses or neglects to obey the command, is

ARTICLE VI.

CONDUCT OF THE SHERIFF TO PERSONS ARRESTED ON CIVIL PROCESS.

§ 403. Neither the sheriff nor any other officer can charge or
receive from a person arrested on civil process compensation for
necessaries or lodging furnished to him while he is in custody, or

tor his commitment or discharge, except as specially authorized 'by this code; nor can he demand or receive a gratuity for keep~
ing a prisoner out of jail, or for waiting for him to find hail or
agree with the adverse party, or for any other purpose.

§ 404. If a person arrested be kept in a house other than the
county jail, neither the officer arresting him nor the person in‘
whose custody he is can receive from him a greater sum for lodg- ing or necessaries than is prescribed by the county judge. If no

such rate have been prescribed, the oiiicer or person in whose
custody the prisoner is cannot receive a greater sum than may be
allowed by the justice of the peace of the town, on proof that the

lodging ‘or necessaries were furnished at the request of the prisoner. And no compensation can in any case be received for intoxicating liquors sold or delivered to the prisoner.

§ 405. A person arrested and Jcept in a house other than a
county jail, may procure such necessaries as he may think iit,
without the detention thereof or payment therefore to the officer
arresting him or the person in whose custody he is.

§ 406. A sheriff or other oiiicer who has arrested a person in
one county may pass through such parts of another county or
counties as are in the usual route of travel, from the place where
the prisoner was arrested to that to which he is to be conveyed
and delivered. And neither the prisoner nor the oilicer having
him in custody can be arrested on civil process while passing
through any other county than that in which the arrest was

made.

ARTICLE VIII. ®UN'l'Y JAIL8, THE KEEPING OF l’RISONERS THEBEIN, AND THE PRO.o

TECTION THEREOF. . 1

§ 107. There is, in each of the counties of this State, a prison,.
known as the county jail.

§ 408. The county jail is kept by the sheriff, and is, (except in
the city and county of N ew-York,) used as a prison.

1. For the detention of persons committed in default of security to appear as witnesses in a criminal action, as provided inthe code of criminal procedure.

2. For the detention of persons committed for trial for a pub-s
lic oEence :

3. For the confinement of persons committed for a contempt, T

or upon civil process: and
4. For the confinement of persons sentenced to imprisonment
therein, upon conviction for a public oifence.

§ 409. In the city and county of N ew-York, the sheriff has the
custody of the county jail for the confinement of persons committed for contempt or upon civil process. The prison in that city
and county, for the detention of persons committed in default of

security to appear as witnesses in a criminal action, or charged
with crime and committed for trial, or sentenced to imprisonment

therein upon conviction of a public offense, is known as the city‘
prison; and that for the imprisonment therein upon conviction of
a public otfence, is known as the penitentiary. Both these prisons are under the charge of the governors of the ~alms-house of
the city of New—York, whose powers in this respect are regulated

by special statutes.

§ 410. The sheriii‘ may appoint a keeper of the county jail, for
whose acts as such he is responsible. o

§ 411. The county jail must be provided by the supervisors of
the county, and must contain a suiiicient number of rooms,

1. For the coniinement of persons committed for trial in criminal actions, separate and distinct from prisoners under sentence :

2. For the confinement of prisoners under sentence :
3. For the confinement of persons committed on civil process forcontempt, or as witnesses, separate from those mentioned in the
last two subdivisions.
§ 412. Persons committed on criminal process and detained for
trial, and those committed for contempt or upon civil process,
must be kept in separate rooms from those in which persons convicted and under sentence are confined ; and on no pretense
whatever, can persons detained for trial or committed for contempt or on civil process, be kept or put in the same room with
those convicted and under sentence. '
§ 413. Male and female prisoners (except husband and wife)
must not be kept or put in the same room. The supervisor o f
each county must, as soon as can conveniently be done, so construct or alter the jail or other prison of the county, as to enable
the sheriff to coniine all persons committed for trial or upon conviction tor public offenses, in separate rooms. And after such
provision is made, each person must be confined in a separate
room, and not be permitted to associate with another prisoner.‘
§ 414. The buildings now used as county jails are continued
as such, until other buildings are designated for that purpose by
the supervisors of the county. '
§ 415. Except as provided in this article, the regulations of
the county jails and prisons, in respect to prisoners committed
thereto for trial or sentence upon conviction for a public oHence,

are prescribed by special statutes.
§ 416. When there is no jail in the county, or when the jail
‘becomes unfit or unsafe for the confinement of prisoners, the

county judge must, by a written appointment, filed. with the
the county clerk, designate thejail‘of a contiguous county for the
confinement of the prisoners of his county, or of any of them, and

may at any time modify or annul theappointment.
§ 417. A copy of the appointment, certined by the county clerk,
must be served on the sheriff and keeper of the jail designated ;

who must receive into his jail, and safely keep, all prisoners authorized to be confined therein pursuant to the last section ; and
who is responsible for the safe keeping of the persons so committed, in the same manner and to the same extent as if he were
sheriffof the county for whose use his jail is designated; and

with respect to the persons so committed he is deemed the sheriff
of the county from which they were removed.

§ 418. If a person confined on civil process, have been previously admitted to the jail liberties of the county for which the

‘ designation is made, he may remain within those liberties, or may

beremoved to the jail designated‘ by the sheriff to whom he has

given an undertaking for the liberties, in the same cases and in '

the same manner as the‘ sheriff might legally confine him in the
jail of his own county.

§ 419. If a.person in the custody of the sheriff of the county
for which the designation has been made, be entitled to the jail
liberties, he must be confined within the jail liberties of the original county, as if no such designation had been made, but may

be removed by the sheriff to the jail so designated, and confined
therein, in the same cases and in the same manner, as he might

legally confine him in the jail of his own county.
§ 420. If a person confined in the jail so designated, on civil
process, or removed there as provided in section 417, be entitled

to the jail liberties, the sheriff of the county in which the jail so
designated is, must admit him to the jail liberties, as if he had
been originally arrested by him.

§ 421. When a jail is erected in'the county for whose use the

designation was made, or its jail is rendered fit and safe for the con- . ~

dnement of prisoners, the county judge of that county must, by a
written revocation, filed with the county clerl; thereof, declare
thatthe necessity for the designation has ceased and that it is
revoked.

§ 422. The county clerk -must immediately serve a copy of the
revocation upon the sheriff of his county, who must thereupon
remove his prisoners to his own jail; and if a prisoner have been
admitted tothe jail liberties of the other county, he must also
berernoved, and is entitledto the jail liberties of the county to
which he is removed, as if he had been originally arrested therein.

§ 423. The sheriff of a county in which there is more than one Jail, may confine his prisoners in either of them, and may remove
them from one jail to another in the county, when he deems it
necessary for their safe keeping or for their appearance at court.

§ 414. When a county jail or a building contiguous to it is on
the, and there is reason to apprehend that the prisoners may be
utilised or endangered, the sherih‘ or jailer may remove them to

a safe and convenient place, and there coniine them, so long as is
necessary to avoid the danger. '

§ 425. When a pesfilence or contagious disease breaks out in
or near to a jail, and the physician thereof certifiesthat it is likely to endanger the health of the prisoners, the county judge of
the county, or the mayor or recorder of a city in which it is situated, may, by a written appointment designate a safe and convenient place in the county, or the jail of a contiguous county, as
the place of their confinement. The appointment must be filed
in the oilice of the county clerk, and must authorize the ‘sheriff
to remove the prisoners to the place or jail designated, and there
-confine them, until they can be safely returned to the jail from
which they were taken.

§ 426. The board of supervisors of each county must, from time
to time, appoint a physician to the jail of the county; and if there
be more than one jail in the county, a physician to each jail.

§ 427. Intoxicating liquors must not, on any pretense, be sold
in a county jail ; nor can they be brought into a jail for the use
of a person confined therein, without a written permit by the phys1c1an.

§ 428. A person who sells or brings into jail intoxicating liquors, contrary to the last section, and a sheriff or other officer
employed about a jail,. who knowingly suifers them to be sold or
-used contrary thereto, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction, is punishable by imprisonment not exceeding one year, or

V by a line not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars, or both;
and a sheriff so convicted, shall forfeit his office. ‘

§ 429. A sheriff or jailer, upon whom a paper in a judicial proceeding, directed to a prisoner in his custody, is served, must forthwith deliver it to the prisoner, with a note thereon of the
time of its service. For a neglect to do so, he is liable tothe
prisoner for all damages occasioned thereby; and by a willful
omission in this respect, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 430. On the written application of the sheriff, with the as~sent of the county judge, or in the city of N ew-York, of the re~corder or city judge, the governor may authorize the sheriff to

organise a guard, not exceeding a speciiied number, for the protection of the county jail or any other prison in the county, or

to arrest or detain a prisoner, or to enforce the process, order or

judgment of a court. He may also-authorize the sheriff to contract with one or more uniform companies to form the guard, and

may at any time revoke or modify the authority.
§ 431. The guard must be under the command. of the officers
designated by the governor, or if he make no designation, under
that of the sheriff, and of such civil and military oiiicers as he
may assign; and is subject to the regulations and penalties pre
scribed by the governor, before or after its organization. The
governor may also direct the delivery to the guard, of such ammunition as he may deem necessary.
§ 432. The guard is entitled to the allowance agreed upon before or after their employment, not exceeding one_dollar a day

for a private, or two dollars a day for an officer,

§ 433. The comptroller may require vouchers and proofs of
the agreement, services and expenses, relating to the guard, and
may allow such sum therefore as he deems just. He may draw
therefore upon the state treasury, and must charge it to the county for whose benefit it was paid, and certify the amount thereof,
to the treasurer of the county, by whom it must be laid before
the supervisors at their next annual meeting. '

§ 434. The supervisors must thereupon direct the amount to
be levied and collected, as a county charge ; but if they think
it would be unreasonably burdensome to raise it all in one year,
they may divide it into not exceeding three equal parts, and order
it to be levied in an equal proportion: in three successive years. A

§ 435. When collected in whole or in part, the money must be
-paid to the county treasurer, by whom it must be paid to the state
treasurer, to the credit of the county, on or before the first day
of May, after its collection. ‘

§ 436. Thesheriff, when he deems it necessary, may, with the

assent of the county judge, or, in the city and county of NewYork, of the recorder or city judge, emply a temporary guard for

the protection of the county jail, or of any other prison in his
county, or for the safe keeping of prisoners, until a guard can be

organised, as provided in section 430; the expenses of which are

a county charge.
§ 437. The expenses of the sheriff, or any other county officer,

incurred pursuant to the last seven sections, are also a county

charge.

TITLE VIII.

JAIL LIBERTIE8; AND THE ADMISSION OF PRISONER8 THERETO.

§ 438. The jail liberties in each county, are continued as now
established, subject -to alteration as provided in section 440.

§ 439. When the jail iiberties have not been established, and '
in counties hereafter erected, the supervisors of the county must
appoint a reasonable space of ground, adjacent to the jail of the
county, to be denominated the jail liberties, as follows :

l. The liberties must be laid out as nearly as may be, in a
square ; except that a stream ‘of water, canal, or highway, may
be adopted as an exterior line, though not in a straight line, or

at right angles with the other exterior lines :
2. They must not exceed five hundred acres in extent, and

and must include the court house, and the office of the county
clerk: ‘

3. A. minute description of their boundaries and extent, must
be filed with the county clerk : '

4. The boundaries and limits of the liberties must be designated, by visible and permanent objects. . ~

§ 440. The jail liberties may be altered by the supervisors, not
oftener than once in three years, and must be designated in the
same manner and subject to the same restrictions, as are prescribed in the last section. But when they have been fixed by statute, no alteration can be made excluding a part of the existing
jail liberties. _ ‘

§ 441. A copy of the order establishing or altering the jail liberties, must be filed with the county clerk, by whom a certified
copy must be immediately delivered to the sheriff, which must
be conspicuously posted in the county jail. ‘

§ 442. A person in the custody of the sheriff‘, in a civil action,
by virtue of an order of arrest or an execution, or upon a surren-.
der in exoneration of bail, or upon a commitment, for not paying
money, may go at large within, the jail liberties, with the consent
of the sheriff. He must, however, be admitted to the jail liberties
upon giving security. therefore, as provided in the next section.

§ 448. The security for the jail liberties must be by a written
undertaking, executed by two or more suiiicient sureties, stating
their places of residence and occupations, to the effect that the

prisoner shall not go beyond the jail liberties, until legally dis- .
charged, or that the sureties W 11 pay to the person at whose suit _

the prisoner is in custody, a sum mentioned in the undertaking,
and which must be as follows : ' ,

1. If upon an order of arrest, or a surrender in exoneration of
bail, in a civil action, before judgment, the sum recovered by the
judgment, not exceeding that mentioned in the warrant of arrest,
with interest and the sheriti’s fees.

2. If upon an execution in a civil action, or a commitment for
not paying money, a sum not exceeding that mentioned therein,
with interest and the sheriff"s fees.

§ 444. If the sherit'f at any time discover that either of the
sureties for the jail liberties is insufficient, he may recommit the

prisoner to jail, until other sufficient security be given.

§ 445. The sureties, at any time before judgment against them
upon their undertaking, may surrender the prisoner, or he may
surrender himself to. the sheriff or jailer, in exoneration of his
sureties from a.future liability, but not from a liability incurred
before the surrender. The sheriff or jailor must thereupon, on
the written requirement of the sureties, receive the prisoner into
custody, and must endorse the surrender upon the undertaking,
and if required, give to the sureties a certificate thereof.

§ 446. If a prisoner, allowed by the sheriti‘ to go at large within
the jail liberties, go beyond them without the consent, connivance
or procurement of the adverse part, the sheriff in whose custody
he is, may pursue and retake him, as if he had escaped from the
jail. ‘

ARTICLE IX.

ESCAPES, AND THE LIABILITIES OF BHERIFFS THEREFOR.

§ 447. A prisoner committed to the county jail for a contempt,
or for trial or upon conviction for a public offense, or in default
of security to appear as a witness in a criminal action, must’ be
actually confined in the jail, until he is legally discharged ; and
it he be permitted to go‘at large out of the jail, except byvirtue
of a legal order or process, it is an escape, and the sheriff or

jailer permitting it is punishable for a misdemeanor; and when t

the prisoner escaping is also held until he“ pay asum‘ of money

to a private party, that party may recover, in acivil action against
the sheriff, his damages sustained by reason of the escape.

§ 448. A sheriff who suffers the escape of a prisoner, arrested
or in jail, without the consent or connivance of the party in whose

behalf the arrest or imprisonment was made, is liable to an action
by such party therefore as follows: '

1. When the arrest is upon an order of arrest in a civil action,
when the presence of the defendant at the return of the summons
is necessary to enable the plaintifff to proceed in the action, and

the defendant does not appear at. the time and place specified for
the return of the summons:

2. When the arrest or imprisonment is upon an order of arrest
in any other civil action, or upon a surrender in exoneration of
the sheriff or of bail, and the defendant is not found upon an
execution against his person, issued to the proper county on a
judgment in such action: ‘

3. When the arrest is on an execution or commitment to enforce
the payment of money, and the party arrested is not recaptured
or surrendered into custody, at the expiration of the time limited
for the service thereof, or legally discharged therefrom:

4. When a person is imprisoned on an execution or commitment

to enforce the payment of money, and he escapes after the time
limited for the service and is not recaptured or surrendered before

an action brought for the escape.

§ 449. The measure of damages, in an action for an escape, as
provided in the last section is as follows:
, 1. For the escape mentioned in subdivision 1 of the last section: '
2. In any other case, the amount expressed in the execution or
commitment:
3. The actual damages sustained.
§ 450. An action for the escape of a prisoner confined in a jail
for either of the causes mentioned in section 442, or admitted to
the jail liberties, may be brought, by the adverse party against

either the sheriff or the sureties for the jail liberties; but the
election to sue the sureties discharges the sheriff.

§ 451. The action cannot however be maintained, if, after his
escape and before the commencement of the action, the -prisoner

return to the jail or the liberties thereof,‘or be retaken by the
aheriif

§ 452. If the action be brought against the sherif, and he give
written notice thereof to the prisoner or to his sureties, a judgment against the sheriff is conclusive evidence of his right to ’

recover against the prisoner or his sureties, as to any matter
which was or might have been controverted in the action against
the sheriff. In an action by thesheriff against the prisoner or his
sureties, the judgment against the sheriff for the escape of the
prisoner, is evidence of the damages sustained by him, in the
same manner as if it had been collected; and he is also entitled
to recover _ his costs and reasonable expenses. in defending the
action against him, as part of his damages. 

§ 453. If the action be brought against the sheriff', when security for the jail liberties has been taken, the court must, unless
the escape was with the assent of the sheriff, stay all proceedings
upon a judgment thereon against him, until the expiration of a
reasonable time to enable him to prosecute the sureties, and collect £1-om them the amount of the judgment he may recover.

§ 454. A sheriff, jailer or other officer, who demands or receives a reward or gratuity, to aid, assist or connive at the escape
of a prisoner in his custody, is punishable for a misdemeanor;
and if he be a sheriff, forfeits his oiiice. If a sheriff be convicted, as provided in this section, the court must immediately report
the fact of his conviction to the governor.

article X. .

LSSIGHMEHT OF THE JAIL AHD OF PRISONERS AND PROCESS, T01
NEW SHERIFF.

§ 455. When a new sheriff' is elected or appointed, and has
qualified and given the security required by special statutes, the
county clerk must give a certificate of that feet, under his seal of
otliee; upon the service of which on the former sheriff, his powers cease, except when otherwise specially provided. .

§ 456. Within three days after the service of the certificate
upon the former sheriff‘, he must deliver to his successor,

1. The jail or jails of the county, with their appurtenances and
the property of the county therein:

2. The prisoners then confined in the county jail:
3. The process, or other papers in his custody, authorizing or
relating to the confinement of the prisoners, or if they have been

returned, a written statement of their contents and the time of
their return : .

4, All process for the arrest of a party, and all papers relating
to the ‘summoning of a grand or trial jury, which have not been

fully executed: - i
5. All executions, attachments and final process, except those

which he has executed or has begun‘ to execute, by the collection
of money or a levy on property.

§ 457. He must also, at the same time,deliver to the new sher
if, a written assignment of the property, process, papers, and
prisoners delivered, specifying the authority by which each prisoner was on -mmitted and is detained, and whether or not it be returned or delivered to the new sheriff. The new sheriff must
thereupon acknowledge. in writing, upon a duplicate of the assignment, the receipt of the property, process, papers and prisoners therein specified.

§ 458 Notwithstanding the election or ‘appointment of a new
sheriff, the former sheriff. must return all process before or after
judgment, which he has fully executed, and" must complete the
execution of all final p1‘(H{t'SS which he has begun to execute.

§ 459. If the former sheriff neglect or refuse to deliver to his
successor the jail, p1'(7CBbS, papers and prisoners in his charge, as
required by Section 456, the new sheritl' may, notwithstanding,
take possession of the jail, and of the prisoners confined therein,

and may compel the delivery of the process and papers, in the
manner prescribed in this cede,

ARTICLE XI.

pnovrsroxs nzspécrmc Pimsous comm-1-an mmrzn nu: .w-rnonrrr
OF COURTS OF THE UNITED STATES, ‘IO A COUNTY JAIL.
§ 460. The sheriff must receive and keep in the county jail,
every prisoner who is committed thereto, under civil process
issued by a court of the United States, until he be discharged

according to the laws thereof, as if he had been committed under
civil process issued under the authority of this state. He may

also receive, to his own use, the sum payable by the United States

for the use of the jail.
§ 461. A sheriff or jailer, to whose custody aprisoner is committed, as provided in the last section, is answerable for his safe

keeping, in the courts of the United States, according to the laws
thereof. ARTICLE XII.

mscnu.ar~'r.ons pnovxsrons anspncrxnc smznrrrs AND rnzm
orrrcnna. '

§ 462. No direction or authority, by a party or his "attorney, to
a sherif, or to an under or deputy sheriff or jailor, in respect to
the execution of process or the return thereof, or to any act or
omission relating thereto, is available _to discharge or excuse the
sheriff from a liability for neglect or misconduct, unless it be contained in a writing signed by the party to be charged or affected
thereby, or his attorney.

§ 463. When the sheriff is committed to the custody of another
sheriff or of a coroner, under an execution or commitment for not

paying over money received; by him by virtue of his oihce, and
remains committed for thirty days, the fact must be reported by

the onicer in whose custody he is, to the governor.

§ 464. When the sheriff or other officer is legally required to
perform a service in behalf of the people of this state, which is
not chargeable to his county,’ or to some other person, his account

therefore must be audited by the comptroller, and paid’ out of the
state treasury. _

§ 465. When a sheriff is authorized to summon a jury of inquest, or when, in any special proceeding, a jury is authorized,
and express provision for drawing it is not made by a particular
provision of this code,‘ the jury may be drawn from any justice’s
jury box, in the presence of the justice, by drawing the names of
eighteen jurors, summoning them, and at the time of appearance,
drawing or selecting from those who appear, the number sufficient
to complete the jury.

§ 466. A sheriff, or other ministerial oiiicer, is justified in the
execution of process, regular on its face, and appearing to have
been issued by competent authority, whatever may be the defect
in the proceedings upon which it was issued. W

§ 467. The officer executing a warrant, order or process of any
kind, is then, and at all times subsequent,so long as he retains it,
bound to show the same, with all papers attached, to any person
interested therein. . - ~

§ 468. A sheriff, under 'or deputy sheriff or jailer, is prohibited
during his continuance in office,‘

1. From acting, or having a partner who acts, as an attorney
or counsellor:

2. From being interested in the" costs or fees in an action or

"special proceeding, except where he is a party thereto or interested in the subject thereof.

§ 469. The sheriff may receive:

For serving an order or process, one dollar:

For travel to the place of service, en cents a mile, computed
from the nearest court-house in the county:

For selling property by_ virtue of an execution, attachment,
order or judgment, five per cent on any sum not exceeding two

hundred dollars, and one per cent on all over that amount, to be
computed on the proceeds of the sale:

For levying upon property, by virtue of an execution or attachment, if no sale took place, one per cent on the value of the
property, to be determined by the court, or a judge thereof:

For summoning a jury in a special proceeding, one dollar:
For appraising property, or advertising a sale, his actual and

reasonable disbursements:
He shall receive no other fee for any service whatever in a civil
action or special proceeding, except for the draft or copy of papers,

at the rate of five cents for every hundred works.

CHAPTER VI.

CORONERS .

ARTICLE I.

- OORONEBS AND THEIR DUTIES, IN GENERAL.

§ 470. There is one coroner in the city and county of NewYork, and four in every other county of this state, who are elected

by the electors of the county, at a general election, once in every
three years, and as often as there is a vacancy. The manner of

their election and removal, of, giving and renewing their oilicial

bonds, and of supplying a vacancy in their office, is prescribed
by the constitution and by special statutes. 'Their compensation

is the same as that of sheriffs for similar services.

§ 471. A coroner has power, and it is his duty,

1. When he is informed that a person has been killed or dangerously wouuded by another, or has suddenly died, under such
circumstances as to afford a reasonable ground .to suspect that his

death has been occasioned by criminal means, or has committed
suicide, to inquire by the intervention of a jury, into the cause
of the death or wound, and to perform the other duties incidental
thereto, in the manner prescribed by the code of criminal procedure :

2. To execute civil process in an action or special“ proceeding
when the sheriff is a party, as prescribed in sections 475, to 478,
both inclusive:

3. To exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred
and imposed upon him, by the constitution and by other statutes.

§ 472. When an act is directed by statute to be performed by
a sheriff, or process is issued to him, the duty,in case. of the inability of the sheriff, from any cause, to perform it, devolves on
the coroner, in the same manner, and with the same powers,

duties and responsibilities,as if the process or order had required
its performance by that officer. '
§ 473. In the city and county of N ew- York, if the coroner be

absent or unable to attend to the duties prescribed by the first subdivision of section 471, they may be performed by a police
justice, but by no other officer, with the like authority and subject to the same obligations and penalties as are attached to the
office of coroner. ‘

§ 474. Each coroner is entitled to receive for his services, in
holding an inquest and performing any other duty incidental
thereto, such compensation as may be fixed by the board of
supervisors of his county; and can receive for those services no
other compensation or fees whatever. In the city and county of
New-York, the compensation so fixed, must be an annual salary.

ARTICLE II.

DUTIES OF CORONI-IRS, WHEN THE SHERIFF IS A PARTY.

§ 475. When the sheriff is a party to an action or special proceeding, the process therein, which "it would otherwise be the
duty of the sheriff to execute, must, except when otherwise provided by this code, be executed by the‘ coroner of the county to
whom it is delivered.

§ 476. When process is directed to the coroners of a county
generally, it may be executed and returned by either of them,
whose acts in respect thereto can in no degree prejudice the
others.. He must execute it in the same manner as the sheriff
must have done, if it might have been executed by him.

§ 477. If the sheriti‘, on being arrested by a ‘ coroner, on an
order of arrest in a civil action, neglect to give bail or make a
deposit of money instead thereof, or if he be arrested on an execution against hislbody, or on a commitment, he must be confined
by the coroner in a house within the jail liberties, other than the
house of the sheriff or the county jail, in the same manner as the
sheriii‘ is required to confine a prisoner in the county jail. The
house in which he is thus confin'ed, thereupon becomes, for that
purpose, the county jail. If a person be arrested by a coroner,

on process in an action in which the sheriff is plaintifff, he must,
when his commitment is required by this code, be committed to

the county jail ; but the coroner is not liable for his escape from_

the jail, after he is committed thereto.
§ 178. A coroner who executes process in an action or special

proceeding to which the sheriff is a party, as provided in the last
three sections, is invested with the powers, duties and responsibilities of the_ sheriff, in the execution of the process, and in
every matter incidental thereto.

CHAPTER VII.

COUNTY 1*ntcAs‘Unnns.

§ 479. There is, in each of the counties of this State, except the
city and county of New-York, a county treasurer. In the city
andcounty of New-York the chamberlain of that city is the

county treasurer." The manner of their election and removal, of
giving and renewing their ofiicial bonds, and of supplying a vacancy in their office, is prescribed by special statutes. Their
compensation for the services required of them by this chapter
must be fixed by the boards of supervisors of their respective
counties. _

§ 430. When a bond, mortgage, or other security upon real
property is ordered by the court to be taken, it must, unless
otherwise directed by the court, be taken by the county treasurer
of the county where the real property is situated, or by any

other county treasurer designated by the court, by his name of
office

§ 481. All other securities, and all certificates and transfers of
stocks ordered by the court, must, unless otherwise directed, be
taken by a county treasurer designated by the court, by his name
of office.

§ 482. The county treasurer, by whom a bond, mortgage, or
other security upon real estate, or any other security, certificate,
or transfer is taken, as provided in the last two sections, is thereupon vested in trust for the owners of the fund with full titlethereto, and may sue for and collect the same’, in his name of
office.

§ 183. When money is brought or paid into court, (excepts
justice’s court,) in an action or special proceeding, the clerk
must, within five days thereafter, pay it to the county treasurerof the county, unless it be ordered by the court to be paid to
another county treasurer, or to be invested or disposed of as pro-vided in section 486. The county treasurer must thereupon
make an entry, stating the amount thereof, the time when, and

by or for whom, and in what action or proceeding it was so deposited, and the time from yvhich the interest thereon, if any, is
to commence.

§ 484. An order upon a county treasurer, for the payment of
money deposited with him, as provided in this chapter, must be
payable to the order of the person entitled thereto, or his attorney, and must specify in what particular action or proceeding, or

on what account it is to be paid out, and the time when the order
authorizing the payment was made.

§ 485. No money brought or paid into court, and deposited
with the county treasurer, can'be paid out by him Without the

production of the order of the court for that purpose, authenticated by the signature of the judge by whom the court was held.

§ 486. The court into which money is brought may direct it
to be invested in a public stock, or to be placed at interest with
a corporation, or on approved landed security, and from time to

time to be transferred or disposed of as it thinks proper.
§ 487. At the first general term of the supreme court, held in

each year, in the district embracing his county, the count.y treasurer must present a statement of all monies remaining in court,
containing,

1. The title of the action or proceeding in or on account of
which the money Was paid.

2. The party by whom it was paid, and generally for what
purpose.

3. The time of payment, and the amount paid ; and,

4. The investment or other disposition thereof.

He must also present a similar statement to every other court

in his county, at its first general term, or if there be none, at its
first term, of all monies remaining in his hands and paid to him
in actions or proceedings therein.

§ 488. The county treasurer must keep books of entry for money received, invested, or paid out, in legal proceedings, separate
from those in which entries are made of county funds, and these
books must be delivered to his successor in oilice. He must also,
at each annual meeting of the board of supervisors,report a statement of the bonds, mortgages and other securities in his hands,
and of monies paid to and deposited or invested by him, as provided in this chapter or by special statutes.

§ 489. The board of supervisors must thereupon examine into
the situation of the securities or monies in the hands of the tree.surer, and must ascertain and report to the supreme court, at its
next general term in the district, whether the monies are safely
and securely deposited or invested, and whether the securities are
sufficient. '

CHAPTER VIII.

‘ can-ms.

§ 490. A crier may be appointed by the board of supervisors of
each county, for all or either of the courts in the county, except
at provided in the next section. , ‘

§ 491. The crier of each of the following courts in the city and
county of New-York, is appointed by the court, and holds his
office during its pleasure: ~

1. The superior court:

2. The court of common pleas:

3. The court of sessions. .

§ 492. The compensation of the crier must be fixed by the
board of supervisors of the county in which he is appointed. .

§ 493. It is the duty of the crier,

1. To attend the sessions of the courts for which he is appointed. I

2. To call parties and witnesses, and all other persons bound
to appear at the court:

3. To make proclamation of the opening or adjournment of the
court, or of any other matter, under its direction.

Tl-TLE V.

OF PERSONS BPECIALLY INVESTED WITH MINISTERIAL POWERS,
RELATING TO THE COURTS OF JUSTICE.

CHAPTER I.

ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLOBS.

ARTICLE I.

ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS, IN GENERAL.
1'

§ 494. An attorney is a person authorized to appear for and
represent a party, in the written proceedings in an action or special proceeding, in any stage thereof.

§ 495. A counsellor is a person authorized to appear for and
represent. a party, in an action or special proceeding, in court
only.

§ 496. A person authorized to act as attorney, may also act as

counsel. . _

§ 497. An an attorney or counsellor is not a public officer, but
any person may act in that capacity who is declared to be, or admitted as such,according to sections 599 to 103, both inclusive.

§ 498. A civil action may be prosecuted or defended, bya party
in person or by attorney,except that a corporation appears by at
torney in all cases ; and where a party appears by attorney, the
written proceedings must be in the name of the attorney, who is
the sole representative of his client, as between him and the adverse party.

ARTICLE II.

ADMISSION OF ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLOBS.

§ 499. The following persons are entitled to practice as attorneys and counsellors, in all the courts of this state:
1. Those who are duly admitted‘ as attorneys or counsellors of

the supreme court, before the first Monday of July, 1847, and

whose names are still on the rolls of attorneys and counsellors of 7

that court:

2. Those in respect to whom an order has been entered by the
supreme court, at any time since the first Monday of July, 1847,
stating that they have been examined and found to possess the
qualifications required by "the constitution, to entitle them to
practice as attorneys and counsellors in the courts of this state.

§ 500. Any male citizen of the age of twenty—one years, of good
moral character, and who possesses the requisite qualifications of ’
learning and ability, is entitled to admission to practice in all
the courts of this state.

§ 501. For the purpose of admission, he must apply to the supreme court in the district where he resides, on the first day of
a general term, and must shew,

1. That he is a citizen of the United States, of the age of
twenty-one years ; which proof may be made by his own affidavit -,
and, 2. That he is a person of good moral character ; which may be
proved by certificate, or other evidence satisfactory to the court

§ 502. The applicant must also be examined in open court, as to

his qualifications of learning and ability, by the judges, or under
their direction, at the term at which application for admission is
made 

§ 503. If, upon examination, he be found duly qualiiied, the
court must direct an order to be entered, to the effect that the

applicant is a citizen of the United States, of the age of twentyone years, of good moral character, and possesses the requisite
qualifications of learning and ability, to practice as an attorney
and counsellor in all the courts of this state; and upon the entry
of the order, he is entitled to practice as such attorney and connsellor.

ARTICLE III.

DUTIES or ATTORNEYS AND couNsuLLons.

§ 504. It is the duty of an attorney and counsellor,
1. To support the constitution and laws_ of the United States,

and of this state:
2. To maintain the respect due to the courts of justice and judicial officersz
3. To counsel or maintain such actions, proceedings or defenses, only, as appear to him legal and just, except the defense
of a person charged with a public offense:

4. To employ, for the purpose of maintaining the causes connded to him, such means only as are consistent with truth, and
never seek to mislead the judges by any artifice or false statement
of fact or law :

5. To maintain inviolate the confidence, and at every peril to
himself, to preserve the secrets of his clients :, p

6. To abstain from all oifensive personality, and to advance no
fact prejudicial to the honor or’ reputation of a party or Witness
unless required by the justice of the cause with which he is
charged : A

7. Not to encourge either the commencement or the continuance of an action or proceeding, from any motive of passion or interest: and
8. Never to reject, for any consideration personal to himself,

the cause of the defenseless or the oppressed.
§ 505. An ‘attorney and counsellor who is guilty of deceit or

collusion or consents thereto, with intent to deceive a court or
judge or a party to an action or judicial proceeding, is punishable fur a misdemeanor, and shall also forfeit to the party injured
treble damages, recoverable in a civil action.

§ 506. If an attorney and counsellor knowingly permit a person
not his general law partner, to sue out process, or to prosecute or
defend an action or proceeding in his name, he and every person
who so uses his name, shall severally forfeit to the party against
whom the process was issued, or the action or proceeding prosecuted or defended, the sum of fifty dollars, recoverable in a civil
action.

ARTICLE IV.

AUTHORITY OE‘ All ATTORNEY AND ITS DURATION.

§ 507. An attorney and counsellor has authority,

1. To bind his client, in any of the proceedings in an action or
special proceeding, by his agreement filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes of the court, and not otherwise:

2. To receive money claimed by his client in an action or special proceeding, during the pendency thereof, or within two years
after judgment; and upon the payment thereof, and not otherwise, to discharge the claim, or acknowledge satisfaction of the

judgment. .

But this section does not prevent a party from employing a
new attorney, to issue an execution upon a judgment, or to take
the other proceedings, prescribed by this code, for its enforcement, and when he does so, the authority of the former attorney

ceases. ‘
§ 508. If it be alleged by a party for whom an attorney appears, that he does so without authority, the court may, at any
stage of the proceedings, relieve the party for whom the attorney
has assumed to appear, from the consequences of his acts. It
may also summarily, upon motion, compel the attorney to repair
the injury to either party, consequent upon his assumption of

authority.
§ 509. The court, or a judge, may, on motion of either party,

and on showing reasonable ground therefore, require the attorney

for the adverse party, or for any one of several adverse parties, '

to produce or prove the authority under which he appears, and

until he does so, may stay all proceedings by him on behalf of the
party for whom he assumes to appear.

ARTICLE LE V.
CHANGE OF ATTORNEY.

§ 610. The attorney in an action or s; ecial proceeding, may be
changed at any time before judgment or iinal determination, .as
follows :

1. Upon his own consent filed with the clerk or entered upon
the minutes: or, J

2. Upon the order of the court or a judge thereof, on the application of the client or for other sufficient cause. ‘

§ 511. When an attarney is changed, as provided in “the last section, written notice of the change and of the substitution of a
new attorney, or of the appearance of the party in person, must

begiven to the adverse party. Until then, he is bound to recognise the former atto ney. '

§ 512. When an attorney dies, or is removed or suspended,or '

ceases to act as such, a party to an action for whom he was acting

as attorney,must at least thirty days before any further proceeding against him, be required by the adverse party, by written notice, to appoint another attorney, or to appear in person.

ARTICLE VI.

LIEN OF ATTORNEY.

§ 513. An attorney has a lien for his compensation, whether
special] y agreed upon, or implied, as provided in this code,

1. Upon the papers‘ of his client, which have come into his
possession in the course of his professional employment:

2. Upon money in his hands belonging to his client:

3. Upon money in the handsof the adverse party, in_an action

or proceeding in which the attorney was employed, from the time
of giving notice of the lien to that party:

4. Upon a judgment, to the extent of the costs included therein, or if there be a s, ecial agreement, to the extent of the compensation specially agreed on from the time of giving notice to the
party agains twhom the judgment is recovered.

This lein is, however, subordinate to the rights existing between the parties to the action or proceeding.

ARTICLE VII.

SUMMARY POWER OF THE COURT, OVER ATTORNEYS.

§ 514. When an attorney refuses to deliver over money or
papers, to a person from or for whom he has received them in
the course of professional employment, whether in an action or
not, he may be required by an order of the court in which an

action, if any, was prosecuted, or if no action were prosecuted,
then by an order of the supreme court, to do so within a specified

time, or show cause why he should- not be punished for acoutempt.

§ 515. If, however, the attorney claim alien upon the money
or papers, under the first‘ two subdivisions of section 513, the
court may,

.1. Impose as a condition of making the order, that the client

give security, in a form and amount to be directed, to satisfy the
lein, when determined in an action; or,

2. Summarily inquire into the facts on which the claim of a
lien is founded, and determined the same_: or

3. Direct the trial of the controversy by a jury, or refer it, and
»upon the verdict or report, determine the same as in other cases.

ARTICLE VIII.

‘RESIGNATION OF ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS, AND THE EFFECT
THEREOF.

§ 516. An attorney and counsellor may, at any time, file in
the officeof the clerk of the county in which he resides, a written resignation; and after the tiling thereof, he is not entitled to
.the rights, nor is he subject to the disabilities or prohibitions,
_incident to that relation; except that he is still subject to the
‘power of the court, as provided in the last three sections, in respect to matters arising whilst he was an attorney and counsellor.

§ 517. An attorney and counsellor who shall have resigned
as provided in the last section, may at any time thereafter be

re-admitted to practice as such, in the same manner as if he had
never been so admitted.

ARTICLE IX.

REMOVAL OR SUSPENSION OF ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS.

§ 518. An attorney and counsellor maybe removed or suspended by the supreme court, at a general term, in the district in
which he resides or keeps his office, for either of the following

causes, arising after his admission to practice :

1. Upon his being convicted of a felony, or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude; in either of which cases the record
of his conviction is conclusive evidence. ’

2. Upon its being shown, to the satisfaction of the court, that
he has knowingly signed a frivolous pleading, or has been guilty
of any other deceit or willful misconduct in his profession.

3. For a willful disobedience or violation of the order of a court,
requiring him to do or forbear an act connected with, or in the
course of his profession.

4. For a willful violation of any of the provisions of section 504.

§ 519. The proceedings to remove or suspend an attorney and
counsellor, as provided in the last section, must be taken by the
court, of its own motion, for matters within its knowledge, or
may be taken upon the information of another. _

§ 520. If the proceedings be upon the information of another,
the accusation must be in writing, and must be presented to the
court.

0
§ 521 . The accusation must state the matters charged, and must
be verified by the oath of the person making it, or of some other
person, to the e&‘ect that the charges therein contained are true.

§ 522. After receiving the accusation, the court must, if, in its
opinion the case require it, make an order requiring the accused
to appear and answer the accusation, at a specified time in the
same or a subsequent term, and must cause a copy of the order

and of the accusation to be served upon the accused, within a
prescribed time before the day appointed in the order,

§ 523. The accused must appear at the time appointed in the
order, and answer the accusation, unless, for sufficient cause, the

court assign another day for that purpose. If he do not appear,

the'court may proceed and determine the accusation in his
absence. .

§ 524. The accused may answer the accusation, either by objecting to its suiliciency or by denying its truth.

§ 525. If he object to the sufficiency of the accusation, the
objection must be in writing, but need not be in any specific
form, it being suiiicient if it present, intelligibly, the grounds of
the objection. If he deny the truth of the accusation the denial
maybe oral and without oath, and must be entered upon the

minutes.
§ 526. If an objection to the sufficiency of the accusation be

not sustained the accused must. answer it forthwith.

§ 527. It the accused plead guilty, or refuse to answer the
accusation, the court must proceed to judgment of removal or

suspension. If he deny the matters charged, the court must immediately, or at such time as it may appoint, proceed to try the

accusatic »n.

§ 528. In case of a judgment of suspension or removal the accused Ina), within ten clays after it is pronounced, make a case,

‘setting frsrth the evidence and uthe1'proceedi11gsin the matter

upon the hearing thereof, which must be settled by the court in
the same manner as a case in a civil action‘. When settled, it
must be filed with the cwrk of the court by which the judgment
was given.

§ 599. The following" papers must be annexed together and
filed by the clerk, within ten days after the tiling of the case, or
within such further time as the court or a judge thereof may
prescribe.

1. The accusation.

2. The objections or answer thereto.

3. The case mentioned in the last section. >

4. A copy of the entries upon the minutes of the court, relating to the accusation, and the proceedings thereon, including the
order of suspension or removal.

§ 530 A judgment of acquittal is final, and without appeal.
But from a judgment of suspension or removal, the accused may

appeal to the court of appeals, in the same manner as from a
judgment of the supreme court in a criminal action.

§ 531. The -powers and jurisdiction oflthe court of appeals,
upon the appeal, and its proceedings and judgment thereon, are

the same as upon an appeal from a judgment of the supreme
court in a criminal action, except that the court may reverse or

modify the judgment, as well upon the facts appearing ‘in the
judgment roll as upon the law. _ '

§ 532. Any court, except a justice’s court or a court of conciliation, may suspend an attorney and counsellor from practising
therein, for any of the causes mentioned in section 518, for a
period not beyond the adjournment of the next general term of
the supreme court in the district. The order of suspension must
state the cause thereof, and must beentered upon the minutes,
and a certified copy thereof transmitted by the court by which it
is made to the next general termvof the supreme court in the
district, which may proceed thereon again st the person suspended
in the manner provided in this article.

CHAPTER II .

PERSONS SPICIALLY AUTHORIZED TO EXECUTE THE DUTIES OF THE

SHERIFF IN PARTICULAR CASES.

§ 533 Process in an action or special proceeding may be execnted by two persons residing in the county, designat-:d by the
court, and denominated elisors, in either of the following cases :

1 . When the sheriff and coroner are parties:

2. Whep either of those officers is a party, and the process is
against one of them for a disobedience of an order or process

against the other. . _ "
They may be required by the court to give security in such

manner as it ma)’ direct . .
§ 534. When process of arrest is delivered to elisors they must

execute it in the same manner as the sheriff must have done if it

might have been ‘executed by him. , ‘ _
§ 535. If the sheriff or coroner, on being arrested by a- person

srgciany appointed to execute the office of sheriff, or by eliéors,
on an order of arrest in a civil action, neglect to give bail or
make a deposite of money instead thereof, or if he be arrested on
execution against his body, or on attachment, he mustbe confined
in ‘ house within the jail liberties other than the house of the

sheriff or the county jail, in the same manner as the sheriff is
required to confine a prisoner in the county jail. The house in

which he is thus confined thereupon becomes, for that purpose,
the county jail.

§ 536. If the coroner be arrested on process in an action in
which the sheriff is plaintifff, or if another person be so arrested
in an action in which both the coroner and sheriff are plaintifffs,
the must be committed to the county jail when his commitment
is required by this code; but the persons making the arrest are
not liable for his escape from the jail after he is committed

thereto.

§ 537. Elisors appointed to execute process in the cases mentioned in section 533 are invested with the powers, duties and
responsibilities of the sheriff in the execution of the process and
in every matter incidental thereto, and entitled to the same compensation.

CHAPTER III._

RECEIVERS.

§ 538. A receiver is a person appointed by a court or judicial

oiiicer, to take charge of property during the pendency of a civil

_ action or aspecial proceeding of a civil nature, or upon a judgment or order therein, and to dispose of it as the court or officer
may direct.

§ 439. A receiver may be appointed, .

1. In a civil action, before judgment, provisionally, on the application of either party, when his right to property, the subject

of the action, and which is in the possession of an adverse party,
is probable, and the property, or its rents and profits, are in danger of being lost or materiaily injured or impaired:

2. In a civil action, after judgment, to carry the judgment into
efect :

3. In a civil action after judgment, to dispose of the property,
according to the judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency
of an appeal, or when an execution has been returned unsatis
nod, and the judgment debtor refuses to apply his property in satisfaction of tl.e judgment: I

4. In the cases provided in this code, and byspecial statutes,
when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights‘

5. In the cases provided in this code, when a debtor has been
declared insolvent.

§ 540. A receiver, before entering upon his duties, must be
sworn faithfully to discharge his trust, to the best of his ability:
and must also file with the clerk of the court, an undertaking in
writing, of one or more sufficient sureties, in a specified sum, fixed by the court or officer, to the effect that he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver, and will obey the orders of the
court or officer in respect thereto. The sureties must justify in the
same manner as bail upon an arrest. The compensation of the
receiver may be prescribed by the court.

CHAPTER IV.

GUARDIAN 8.

§ 541. A guardian is a person appointed to take the charge of
the person or estate of an infant, or both, or to appear for himin
the prosecution or defense of a civil action.

§ 542. A guardian may be appointed,

1. By the father, whether of full age or not, of a child likely '~
to be born, or of a living child under the age of twenty-one years

and unmarried, or by a surrogate’s court, to take the custody and
tuition of the infant, to maintain actions for ‘wrongfully taking or

detaining him, and to manage his personal property, and the pronts of his real property: '

2. By the court in which a civil action by or against an infant
is brought, or by a judge thereof, and in the supreme court by a

county judge, to appear for the infant in the prosecution or defense of the action, as provided in this code.

§ 543. No guardian appointed for an infant, can be permitted to
receive property of the infant, until he has given sufhcicnt security, approved by a judge of the court, or in the supreme court,
by a county judge, to account for and apply the same, under the
direction of the court.

§ 544. THe manner of the appointment of a guardian, his powers and duties, and the incidents of his trust, are prescribed by other provisions of this code.

§ 545. A committee is a person appointed by a court, to take the care and custody of an insance person, or of one who is incapable of conducting his own affairs in consequence of habitual drunkenness, and of his property.

§ 546. THe manner of the appointment of a committee, his security, powers, and duties, and the incidents of his trust, are prescribed by other provisions of this code.

TITLE 1.’

OF THE FORM OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

§ 547. The distinction between actions at law and suits in equity
he forms of all such actions and suits, heretofore existing, are

ihed ; and, there shall be in this state, hereafter, but one form
tion, for the enforcement or protection of private rights and
edress or prevention of private wrongs, which shall be deiated a civil action. '

§ 548. In such action, the party complaining is known as the
iii‘, and the adverse party as the defendant.

§ 549. There can be no feigned action or issue, but a quesf fact, not put in issue by the pleadings, may be tried by a
upon an order for the trial, stating, distinctly and plainly,

uestion of fact to be tried, and such order is the only any necessary for a trial.

TITLE II. '

Oi‘ THE TIME OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I.

THE TIME‘ OF COMMENCING ACTIONS IN GENERAL.

§ 550. Civil actions can only be commenced Within the periods
ibed in this title, after the cause of action shall have acexcept where in special cases, a different limitation is pre1 by statute. But the objection that the action was not
rnced within the time limited can only be taken by answer,

CHAPTER II.

-rm: run or commascmc ACTIONS not run nnoovx-:nv_ or REAL
pnopzarr.

§ 551. The people of this state will not sue any person for or in
respect to any real property, or the issues or profits thereof, by
reason of the right or title of the people to the same, unless,

1. Such right or title shall have accrued within forty years before any action, or other proceeding, for the same is commenced:
or unless,

2. The people, or those from whom they claim, shall have
received the rents and profits of such real property, or of some
part thereof, within the space of forty years.

§ 552. No action can be brought for, or in respect to, real property, by any person claiming by virtue of letters patent, or grants
from the people of this state, unless the same might have been

commenced by the people, as herein speciiied, in case such patent
or grant had not been issued or grant made.

§ 553. When letters patent, or grants of real property, issued
or made by the people of.th_is state, are declared void by the determination of a competent court, rendered upon an allegation of
a fraudulent suggestion, concealment, forfeiture, or mistake, or

ignorance of a material fact, or wrongful detaining, or defective title, in such case, an action for the recovery of the property so
conveyed, may be brought either by the people of this state, or by

_ any subsequent patentee or grantee of the same property, his

heirs or assigns, within twenty years after such determination ;
but not after that period.

§ 554. No action for the recovery of real property, or for the

5 recovery of the possession thereof, can be maintained, unless it

appear that the plaintifff, his ancestor, predecessor, or grantor,
was seized or possessed of the property in question, Within twenty

years before the commencement of the action.

§ 555. No cause of action or defense to an action arising out
of the title to real property, or to rents or services out of the
same, can be eifectual, unless it appear that the person prosecuting the action, or making the defense, or under whose title
the action is prosecuted, or the defense is made,_or the ancestor, predecessor or grantor of such person, was seized or pos.

sessed of the property in question, within twenty years before
the commission of the act in respect to which such action is
prosecuted or defense made.

§ 556. No entry upon real estate is deemed sufficient or valid
as a claim, unless an action be commenced thereupon within one

year after the making of the entry, and within twenty years
from the time when the right to make it descended or accrued.

§ 557. In every action for the recovery of real property, or

the possession thereof, the person establishing a legal title to
the property is presumed to have been possessed thereof Within

the time required by law ; and the occupation of the property by
any other person, is deemed to have been under and in subordination to the legal title, unless it appear that the property has
been held and possessed adversely to such legal title, for twenty

years before the commencement of the action.

§ 558. When it appears that the occupant, or those under
whom he claims, entered into the possession of land under claim
of title, exclusive of other right, making such claim upon a
written instrument, as being a conveyance of the land in question, or upon the judgment of a competent court; and that there
has been a continued occupation and possession of the land included in su_ch instrument, or judgment, or of some part of the
land, under such claim, for twenty years, the land so included
is deemed to have heen held adversely, except that when it consists of a tract divided into lots, the possession of one lot is not
deemed 21 possession of any other lot of the same tract.

§ 559. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession,
by any person claiming a title founded upon a written instrument or a judgment, land is deemed to have been possessed and
occupied in the following cases:

1. 'Where it has been usually cultivated or improved:

2. Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure:
3. Where, although not inclosed, it has been used for the
supply of fuel or of fencing timber, for the purposes of husbandry, or the ordinary use of the occupant:

4. Where a known farm or a single lot has been partly improved, the portion of such farm or lot that may have been
left not cleared, or not inclosed according to the custom of the

adjoining country, is deemed to have been occupied for the same
length of time as the part improved.

§ 560. Where it appears that there has been an actual continued occupation of land, under a claim of title, exclusive of any
other right, but not founded upon a written instrument, or judgment, the land so actually occupied and no other, is deemed to
have been held adversely.

§ 561. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession,
by a person claiming title not founded upon a written instrument,

or a judgment, land is deemed to have been possessed and occupied in the following ‘cases only, viz:

1. Where it has been protected by permanent enclosure:

2. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.

§ 562. When the relation of landlord and tenant has existed
between any persons, the possession of the tenant is deemed the
possession of the landlord, until the expiration of twenty years

from the termination of the tenancy; or where there has been no
written lease, until the expiration of twenty years from the time
of the last payment -of rent; notwithstanding that such tenant
may have acquired another title, or may have claimed to hold adversely to his landlord. But such presumption can not be made
after the periods herein limited.

§ 563. The right of a person to the possession of real property,
isnot impaired or affected by a descent cast, in consequence of

the death of a person in possession of such property. -.

§ 564. If a person entitled to commence an action for the recovery of real property, or to make an- entry or defense founded

on the title to .real property, or to rents or services out of the
same, be at the time such title first descends or accrues, either,

1. rWithin the age of twenty-one years, or

2. Insane, or

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge; or in execution upon
conviction of a criminal‘ offense, for a term less than for lite, or

4. A-married woman;

The time, during which such disability continues, is not deemed any portion of the time in this chapter limited for the commencement of such action, or the making of such entry or defense ;
except that the disabilities cannot extend the period of limitation,

so as to allow such action to be commenced, or entry or defense
made, more than thirty years after the right accrued.

CHAPTER. III.

THE TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS OTHER THAN FOR THE EEOC‘
VERY OF REAL PROPERTY.

§ 565. The periods prescribed in section 550, for the commencement of actions other than for the recovery of real property, are

as follows:

§ 556. Within twenty-years:

1. An action upon a judgment or decree of a court of the United States, or of any state or» territory within the United States.

2. An action upon a sealed instrument:

§ 567. Within six years: _

1. An action upon a contract, or other obligation, express or
implied ; excepting those mentioned in the last section and in
the next sub division.

2. An action upon a liability created by s'tatute, other than a
penalty or forfeiture: ‘

3. An action for trespass upon real property :

4. An action for taking, detaining or injuring personal property, including actions for the specific recovery thereof:

5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other injury
to the person or rights of another, not arising on obligation, and
not hereinafter enumerated:

6. Ah action for relief, on the ground of fraud; the cause of 1

action in such case not , to be deemed to have accrued, until the
discovery by the aggrieved party, of the facts constituting the
fraud. ’ A

§ 568. Within three years : _

1. An action against a sheriti‘, coroner or constable upon a liability incurred by the doing of an act in his official capacity, and
in virtue of his office, or by the omission of an omcial duty;

including the failure to pay money collected upon an execution;
but this section does not apply to an action for an escape:

2. An action upon a statute,-for a penalty or forfeiture, where
the action is given to the party aggrieved, or to such party and
the people of this state, except where the statute imposing it
prescribes a diferent limitationx '

§ 569. Within two years :_
1. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or false
Imprisonment :

2. An action upon a statute, for a forfeiture or penalty to the
people of thisstate.

§ 670. Within one year:

1. An action against a sheritl or other officer, for the escape
of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process.

§ 571. In an action brought to recover a balance due upon a‘
mutual, open and current account, where there have been reciprocal demands between the parties, the cause of an action is
deemed to have accrued, from the time of the last item proved in
the account, claimed, or proved to be chargeable, on the adverse
side.

§ 572. An action upon a statute, for a penal-ty or forfeiture,
given in whole or in part to the person who prosecutes for the
same, must be commenced within one year after the commission
of the offense; and if the action be not commenced Within the
year by a private party, it may be commenced vvixhin two years
thereafter, in behalf of the people of this state, by the attorneygeneral or the district attorney of the county where the offense
was committed.

§ 578. An action for relief, not hereinbefore provided for, must
be commenced within ten years after the cause of action shall"

have accrued.

§ 574. The limitations prescribed in this chapter apply to
actions brought in the name of the people of this state,,or for
their benefit, in the same manner as to actions_by private parties.

CHAPTER IV.

I

GENERAL PROVISIONS AS TO THE TIME OF COMMENCING. ACTIONS.

§ 575. An action is commenced as to each defendant when the
summons is served on him, or on a co-defendant, who is a joint
c ntractor,'or otherwise united in interest, with him.

§ 576. An attempt to commence an action, is deemed equivalent to the commencement thereof, within the meaning of this title, when the summons is delivered, with the intent that it

shall be actually served, to the sheriff or other officer of the
county, in which the defendants, or one of them, usually or last
resided _; or if a corporation be defendant, to the sheriff, or other
officer of the county in which such corporation was established
bylaw, or where its general businesss was transacted, or where it
kept an office for the transaction of business. But such an
attempt must be followed by the tirst publication of the summons,
or the service thereof within sixty days.

§ 577. If, when the cause of action accrue against a person, he

be out of the state, the action may be commenced within the
term herein limited, after his return to the state; and if, after
the cause of action accrues, he depart from and reside out of the
state, the time of his absence is not part of the time limited for
the commencement of the action.

§ 578. If a person, entitled to bring an action mentioned in the
last chapter, except for a penalty or forfeiture, or against a
sheriff or other officer for an escape, be at the time of the cause
of action accrued, either:

1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or

2. Insane; or

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under the
sentence of a criminal court, for a term less than his natural
life; or

4. A married woman;

The time of such disability is not a part of the time limited

for the commencement of the action, except that the period,
within which the action must be brought, cannot be extended

more than live years, by any such disability, except infancy, nor
can it be so extended in any case longer than one year after the
disability ceases.

§ 579. If a person, entitled to bring an action, die before the
expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and
the cause of action survive, an action may be commenced by his
representatives, after the expiration of that time, and within one
year from his death. If a person, against whom an action may
be brought, die before the expiration of the time limited for the
commencement thereof, and the cause of action survive, an action may be commenced against his representatives after the expij

ab

ration of that time, and within one year after the issuing of letters testamentary, or of administration.

§ 580. When a person is an alien subject, or citizen of a country at war with the United States, the time of the continuance of
the war is not part of the period limited for the commencement

of the action.
§ 581. If an action be commenced within the time prescribed

therefore, and a judgment therein for the plaintiff be reversed on

appeal, the plaintifff‘, or if he die and the cause of action survive,

his representatives may commence a new action, within one year

after the reversal.
§ 582. When the commencement of an action is stayed by injunction, statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance of
the injunction, or prohibition, is not part of the time limited for
the commencement of the action.

§ 583. No person can avail himself of a disability, unless it
existed when his right of action accrued.

§ 584. When two or ‘more disabilities co-exist, at the time the
right of action accrues, the limitation does not attach, until they

are all removed.

§ 585. This title does not affect actions to enforce the payment
of bills, notes, or other evidences of debt, issued by moneyed
corporations, or issued or put in circulation as money.

§ 586. Actions against directors or stockholders of a moneyed
corporation, or to recover a penalty or forfeiture imposed, or to
enforce a liability created by law, must be brought within six
years after the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts
upon which the penalty or forfeiture attached, or the liability was
created. ‘

§ 587. No acknowledgment or promise is suti‘i‘c'ient evidence of
a new or continuing contract, by which to take the case out of
the operation of this title, unless the same is contained in some
Writing signed by the party to be charged thereby; but this section does not alter the eifect of any payment of principal or interest.

§ 588. This title does not extend to actions already commenced
nor does any part of it, except section 576, extend to cases:

"where the right of action has alrea iy accrued: but the statutes

now in force are applicable to such cases, according to the subject of the action, and without regard to the form.

TITLE 111.

OF THE PARTIES TU CIVIL ACTIONS.

§ 589. The people of this State, in their political or corporate
capacity, the United States of America, every sister state of the
United States, every organized territory of the United States,
every foreign state or sovereign prince in amity with the United
States, all other corporations, foreign or domestic, and all natural persons, not alien enemies, or adjudgedcivilly dead, may
be parties, plaintifffs, in the courts of this State; every state, sovereign, and body politic mentioned in thissection, and every other
corporation and natural person may be a party, defendant. But
this section must not be construed as extending the jurisdiction of
any court.

§ 590. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real
party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section 592.

But this section shall not be deemed to authorize the assignment
of a thing in action not arising out of contract.

§ 591. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the
action by the assignee is without prejudice to any set—off or other
defense existing at the time of, or before notice of the assignment; but this section does not apply to a negotiable promissory
note or bill of exchange, transferred in good faith, and upon good
consideration, before due. '

§ 592. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express

trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue without joining With him the persons for whose benefit the action is
prosecuted. A person with whom, or in whose name, a contract
is made, for the benefit of another, is a trustee of an express
trust within the meaning of this section. .

§ 593. When a married woman is a party, her husband must
be joined with her, except that,

1. When the action concerns her separate property, she may
sue alone : .

2. When the action is between herself and her husband, she
may sue or be sued alone.

§ 594. If a husband and wife be sued together, the wife may
defend for her own right, and if the husband neglect to defend,
she may defend for his right also.

§ 595. When an infant is a ‘party, he must appear by guardian,
who may be appointed by the court in which the action is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof, or by a county judge.

§ 596. The guardian must be appointed as follows :

1. When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen, years and within the State,

or if under that age, or without the State, upon the application of
his general or testamentary guardian, if there be one, or of a
relative or friend of the infant:

2. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the
infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within
twenty days after the service of the summons. If he be under
the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then upon the application of any other party to the action, or of a relative or friend
of the infant. When the application is not made by the infant

.himself or his general or testamentary guardian, notice thereof
must first be given to the infant, to the guardian, if there be one,

and to the person with whom the infant resides, or to such ‘of
them as reside within the State. But this section does not apply

when the infant is substituted for a party, pursuant to , in
which case the court may name and appoint the guardian in the
motion.

§ 597. An unmarried fe_male may prosecute, as plaintifff, an action for her own seduction, and may recover therein such damages as shall be assessed in her favor.

§ 598. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his

family, the mother, may prosecute as plaintifff for the seduction of
the daughter, and the guardian for the seduction of the ward,

though the daughter or ward be not living with,or in the service
of the plaintifff, at the time of seduction, or afterwards, and there
be no loss of service. ‘

§ 599. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his

family, the mother, may maintain an action for the injury or
death of a child, and a guardian for the injury or death of his
ward.

§ 600. When ahusband and father has deserted his family, the
wife and mother may prosecute or defend, in his name, any action
which he might have prosecuted or defended, and shall have the
same powers and rights therein as he might have had.

§ 601. All persons having an interest in the subject of the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintifffs, except when otherwise provided in this title.

§ 602. Any person may be made a defendant, who has or
claims an interest in the controversy, adverse to the plaintiff, or
who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the question involved therein.

§ 603. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in
interest must be joined as plaintifffs or defendants; but if the consent of any one, who should have been joined as plaintifff, cannot
be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason thereof
being stated in the complaint : and when the question is one of a
common or general interest of many persons, or when the parties
are numerous and it is impracticable to bring them all before the
court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of all.

§ 604. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or
instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, and sureties on the same or separate instruments, may,
all or any of them, be included in the same action, at theoption
of the plaintitl‘.

§ 605. An action does not abate by the death, marriage or

other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest
therein, if the cause of action survive or continue. In case of

the death, marriage, or other disability of a party, the court on

motion, may allow the action to be continued by or against his
representative or successor in interest. In case of any other

transfer of interest, the action may be continued in the name of
the original party; or the court may allow the person to whom
the transfer is made to be substituted in the action.

§ 606. The court may determine any controversy between parties before it, when it can bedone without prejudice to the rights
of others, or by saving their rights; but when a complete determination of the controversy cannot be had without the presence
of other parties, the court must order them to be brought in.
And when, in an action for the recovery of real or personal property, a person, not a party to the action, but having an interest
in the subject thereof, makes application to the court to be made
a party, it may order him to be brought in by the proper amendmendment. '

§ 607. A defendant, against whom an action is pending, upon
a contract, or for specific, real, or personal property, may, at any
time before answer, upon affidavit, that a person, not a party to
the action, and without collusion with him, makes against him a
demand for the same debt or property, apply to the court for an
order to substitute such person in his place, and discharge him
from liability to either party, on his depositing in court the
amount of the debt, or delivering the property orits value to such
person as the court may direct. And the court, after notice to
the plaintifff and such person, may, in its discretion, make the
order; and thereupon the substituted defendant shall stand in
the place of the original defendant, and the latter be discharged
from liability to either party. '

§ 608. When two or more persons, associated in any business,

transact such business under a common name, whether it comprise the names of such persons or not, the associates may be

sued by such common name, the summons in such case being
served on one or more of the associates; and the judgment in the
action shall bind the joint property of all the associates in the
same manner as if all had been named defendants, and had
been sued upon their joint liability.‘ When the associates are
more than six in number they may sue by their common name.

TITLE IV.

OF THE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

§ 609. Actions for the following cases, must be tried in the
county in which the subject of the action or some part thereof is
situated, subject to the power of the court to change the place of
trial, as provided in section 613 :

1, For the recovery of real property or of an estate or interest
therein, or for the determination, in any form, of such right or
interest, and for injuries to real property:

2. For the partition of real property :

3, For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property:

4. For the recovery of personal property, distrained for any
cause.

§ 610. Actions for the following causes, must be tried in the
county where the cause or some part thereof arose, subject to the

like power of the court to change the place of trial, as,
1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statme; except, that when it is imposed for an offense committed on
alalte, river, or other stream of water, situated in two or more
counties, the action may be brought in any county bordering on
such lake, river or stream, and opposite to the place wherethe
'oh'ence was committed :

2. Against a public officer or person specially appointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his otf1ce,or'
against a person, who by his command or in his aid,does anything touching the duties of such officer.

§ 611. In all other cases, the action must be tried in the county
in which the parties, or some of them, reside at the commencement of the action; or if none of the parties reside in the state,
the same may be tried in any county which the plaintifff may designate in his complaint; subject, however, to the power of the
court to change the place of trial ,as provided in section 613.

§ 612. If the county designated for that purpose in the complaint, be not the proper county, the action may, notwithstanding,
be tried therein, unless the defendant before the time for answering expire, demand in writing that the trial he had in the proper
county, and the place of trial be thereupon changed by consent of.
parties, or by the order of the court, as provided in the next section.

§ 613. The court may change the place of ‘trial on’ the application of all the defendants, who answer in the following cases;

1. When the county designated for that purpose in the complaint is not the porper county :

2. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be had therein :

3. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice
would be promoted by the change. When the place of trial is
changed, all other proceedings shall be had in the county to
which the place of trial is changed, unless otherwise provided by

the consent of the parties in writing, duly filed or order of the
court, and the papers shall be filed or transferred accordingly.

TITLE V.

OF THE MANNER 0}‘ COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS

§ 614. Civil actions in the courts of this state must be commenced by the service of a summons.

§ 615. The summons must be subscribed by the plaintifff, or
his attorney, or by the clerk of the court, and directed to the de,
fendant, requiring him to answer the complaint, and serve a copy
of his answer on the person whose name is subscribed to the summons, at a place within the state, therein specified, in which there
is a post office, within twenty days after the service of the summons, exclusive of the day of service.

§ 616. The plaintifff must also insert in the summons a notice,
in substance as follows:

1. In an action, arising on obligation for the recovery of

money only, that he will take judgment for a sum specified there‘in, if the defendant fail to answer the complaint:

2. In other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the
complaint, the plaintifff will apply to the court for the relief demanded therein.

§ 617. A copy of the complaint must be served with the summons, or the summons must state where the complaint is or will
be filed, and then the service of a copy with the summons may
be omitted; but if the defendant, within ten days thereafter, in

person or by attorney, demand in writinga copy of the complaint,
specifying a place within the state where it may be served,a copy

thereof must, within ten days thereafter, be served accordingly
and after such service the defendant has twenty days to answer:
Only one copy need be served on the same attorney.

§ 618. In the case of a defendant against whom no personal
claim is made, the plaintiffmay deliver to him with the summons
a notice subscribed by the plaintifff or his attorney, setting forth
the general object of the action, a brief description of the property affected by it, if it affect specific, real or personal property,
and that no personal claim is made against such defendant. If a

defendant, on whom such notice is served, unreasonably defend
the action he must pay costs to the plaintifff.
§ 619. In an action affecting the title to real property, the

plaintifff, at the time ofgfiling the complaint, or at any time afterwards, may file with the clerk of each county in which the property is situated, a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the names of the parties, the object of the action, and a description of the property in that county affected thereby. If the
action be for the foreclosure of a mortgage, such notice must be

filed twenty days before judgment, and must contain the date of
the mortgage, the names of the parties thereto, and the time and
place of recording the same. A similar notice must also be filed
with the clerk or register in Whose office the mortgage is recorded, who must thereupon make on the margin of the record an
entry referring to the notice. From the time of filing, and for
two years thereafter, the pendency of the action is constructive
notice toapurchaser or encumbrancer of the property affected
thereby, but the notice may be re—filed from time to time with
the same effect.

§ 620. The summons may be served, by the sheriti’ of the county
where the defendant is found, or by any other person not a party
to the action. The service must be made, and the summons returned, with proof of the service, to the person whose name is
subscribed thereto, with all reasonable diligence. . The person
subscribing the summons, may, at his option, by an endorsement
on the summons, fix a time for the service thereof, and the service
must then be made accordingly.

§ 621. The summons must be served by delivering a copy
thereof, as follows:

1. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president or other
head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, treasurer or director,
"managing agent thereof; but such service can be made in respect to a foreign corporation only when it has property within
this state or the cause of action arose therein.

9. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such
minor personally, and also to his father, mother, or guardian, or
if there be none within the state, then to any person having the

-care and control of such minor, or with whom he resides or in

Whose service he is employed:

3. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind,
or incapable of conducting his own affairs in consequence of habitual drunkenness, and for whom a committee has been appointed, to such committee, and to the defendant personally:

4. In all other cases to the defendant personally.

§ 622. Where the person on whom the service of the summons
is to be made, cannot, after due diligence, be found within the
state, and that fact appears by affidavitto the satisfaction of the
court or a judge thereof, or the county judge of the county where
the action is triable, and it in like manner appears, that a cause
of action exists against the defendant, in respect to whom the
service is to be made, or that he is a necessary or proper party to
an action, relating to real property in this state, such court or
judge may grant an order that the service be made, by the publication of a summons, in either of the following cases:

1. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation, and has property within this state or the cause of action arose therein.

‘ 2. Where the defendant.being a resident of this state,has departed therefrom, with intent to defraud his creditors, or avoid
the service of a summons, or keeps himself cencealed therein,
with the like intent, and the action arises on obligation:

3. Where he is nota resident of this state, but has property
therein, and the action arises on obligation, and the court has
jurisdiction of the subject of the action: _

4. Where the subject of the action is real or personal property

. in this state, and the defendant has, or claims, a lien or interest,

actual or contingent, therein, or the relief demanded consists,

wholly or partly, in excluding the defendant from any interest or
lien therein :

5. Where the action arises upon a mortgage on property in this

state, and the defendant is personally chargeable with the debt
for which the mortgage is security :6. Where the actionis for divorce, in the cases prescribed by
law. '

§ 623. The order must direct the publication to be made in two
newspapers to be designated, as most likely to give notice to the

person to be served, and for such length of time as may be deemed
reasonable, not less than once a week, for six weeks. In case of

publication, the court or judge must also direct a copy of the
summons and complaint to be forthwith deposited in the post

office, directed to the person to be served,at his place of residence
unless it appear that such residence is neither known to the party

, making the application, nor can with reasonable diligence be

ascertained by him. When publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons and complaint out of the state is

equivalent to publication and deposite in the post office. In either

case the service of the summons is to be deemed co‘r.plete, at the
expiration of the time prescribed by the order for publication.

§ 624. If the summons be not personally served on a defendant,
nor received by him through the post office, in the cases provided
for in the last two sections, he or his representatives, on application and suilicient cause shown, at any time before judgment,
must be allowed to defend the action ; and, except in an action
for divorce, the defendant or his representatives may, in like manner, be allowed to defend after judgment, or at any time within
one year after notice thereof, and within seven years after its rendition, on such terms as may be just; and if the defense be successful, and the j udgment,or any part thereof,have been collectedor otherwise enforced, such restitution may thereupon be compelled as the court directs, but the title to property sold under

such judgment to a purchaser in good faith, shall not be thereby. .

affected.

§ 625. Where the action is against two or more defendants,and
the summons is served on one or more, but not on all of them, the
plaintifff may proceed as follows: _

1. If the action be against the defendants jointlyindebted upon
an obligation, he may proceed against the defendants served, unless the court otherwise direct, and if he recover judgment, it may be entered against all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far
only as that it may be enforced against the joint property of all,

and the separate property of the defendants served, and, if they
are subject to arrest, against the persons: or, ‘

2. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he may
proceed against the defendants served, in the same manner as if ‘
they were the only defendants.

§ 626. Proof of the service of the summons, and of the complaint
or notice, if any, accompanying the same must be as follows:
1; If served by the sheriff, his certilicate thereof; or,
2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or,

3. In case of publication, the affidavitof the printer,or his foreman, or principal clerk, showing the same ; and an affidavit of a

deposit of a copy of the summons in the post office, if the same
shall have been deposited : or

4. The written admission of the defendant:

In case of service, otherwise than by pub1ication,the certificate,
affidavitor admission must state the time and place of the service.

§ 627. From the time of the service-of the summons in a civil

action, or the al1owance_of a provisional remedy,. the court is
deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all

the subsequent proceedings. A voluntary appearance of a defendant is equivalent to personal service of the summons upon
him.

TITLE V].

or Tm: PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
CHAPTER I.

THE PLEADING8 IN GENERAL.

§ 628. The pleadings are the formal allegations by the parties
of their respective claims and defenses, for the judgment of the
court.

§ 629. All the forms of pleading heretofore existing, are abolished ; and hereafter, the forms of pleading in civil actions, and

the rules by which the sufiicicncy of the pleadings is to be determined, are those prescribed in this code’.

§ 630. The only pleadings allowed on the part of the plaintifff
are

1. The complaint,

2. The reply ; and on the part of the defendant,
-1. The demurrer, or

2. The answer.

CHAPTER II.

THE COMPLAINT.

§ 631. The first pleading on the part of the plaintifff, is the
complaint. _

§ 632. The domplaint must contain:

1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court in
which the action is brought, the name of the county in which the
plaintifff desires the trial to be had, and the names of the parties
to the action, plaintifff and defendant :

2. A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting the
cause of action, without unnecessary repetition :

3. A demand of the relief, to which the plaintifff supposes him-_

self en titled. If the recovery of money be demanded,the amount
thereof must be stated.

CHAPTER III.

THE DEMURRER.

§ 633. The defendant may demur to the complaint, within
twenty days after the service of a copy thereof, when it appearb

upon the face thereof, either,

1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or the subject of the action : or,

2. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue: or,

3. That there is another action pending -between the same
parties, for the same cause: or,

4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant: or

5. That several causes of action have been improperly united :

or: .
6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute

a cause of action.

§ 634. The demurrer must distinctly specify the grounds upon
which any of the objections to the complaint are taken. Unless
it do so, it may be disregarded. It may be taken to the whole
complaint, or to any of the causes of action alleged therein.

§ 635. If the complaint be amended, a copy thereof must be
served on the defendant, who must answer it within twenty days,
or the plaintifff, upon tiling with the clerk proof of the service,

and of the defendant’s omission, may proceed to obtain judgment,
as in other cases of failure to answer, but where an application
to the court for judgment is necessary, eight days’ notice, thereof .
must be given to the defendant.

§ 636. If any of the causes of objection enumerated in section
633 in fact exist, whether they appczu‘ upon the face of the complaint or not, the objection may be taken by answer.

§ 637. If no such objection be taken, either by demurrer or
answer, the defendant must be deemed to have waived the same,
excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and
the objection that the complaint does not state facts sutiicient to
constitute a cause of action.

CHAPTER IV.

THE ANSWER.

§ 638. The answer of the defendant must contain:
1. A general or speciiic denial of each material allegation of

the complaint controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge
or information thereof, sufficient to form a belief:

2. A. plain and concise statement of any new matter, constituting a defense or counterclaim, without unnecessary repetition.

§ 639. The counterclaim mentioned in the last section, mustbe
one existing in favor of a defendant, and against a plaintifff, between whom a several judgment might be had in the action, and
arising out of one of the following causes of action :

1. A cause of action, arising out of the contract or transaction
set forth in the complaint, as the foundation of the plaintitl”’s
claim, or connected with the subject of the action:

2. In an action arising on obligation, any other cause of action
arising also on obligation, and existing at the commencement of
the action.

§ 640. If the defendant omit to set up a counterclaim in the
cases mentioned in the first subdivision of the last section, hecan
not afterward maintain an action against the plaintifff therefore.

§ 641. When cross demands have existed between persons,
under such circumstances, that if one had brought an action
against the other, a counterclaim could have been set up, neither can be deprived of the benefit thereof, by the assignment or

death of the other, but the two demands must be deemed compensated, so far as they equal each other.

§ 642. The defendant may set forth by answer, as many defenses and counterclaims as he may have Whether they be such
as have been heretofore denominated legal or equitable or both.
They must each be separately stated, and the several defenses
must refer to the causes of action which they are intended to answer, in a manner by which they may be intelligibly distinguished.
The defendant may also answer one or more of the several causes
of action alleged in the complaint and demur to the residue.

§ 643. If the answer set up new matter, which is not replied
to asprovided in the next section, and the issue he tried on complaint and answer alone, and judgment be given thereon for the
plaintifff, the court may permit the defendant to withdraw or
amend the answer, upon such terms as may be just.

CHAPTER V.

THE REPLY.

§ 644. When the answer contains new matter constituting a

counterclaim, the plaintifff may within twenty days, reply to such I

new matter, denying generally or speciticall y each allegation controverted by him, or any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a belief ; and he may allege, in plain and concise

language, without unnecessary repetition, any new matter, not inconsistent with the complaint, constituting a defense to the counterclaim.

CHAPTER VI.

GENERAL RULES OF PLICADING.

§ 645. Every pleading must be subscribed by the party, or his
attorney, and the complaint, answer and I‘( ply, must be veriiied
by the affidavit of a party, his agent or attorney,to the effect that

hcbelieves it to be true. When the affidavit is made byithe.

agent or attorney, it must set forth the reason of his making it.

The verification may be omitted, when an admission of the
truth of the complaint might subject the party to prosecution for
felony. And no pleading, verified as herein required, can be used

in a criminal prosecution against the party, as proof of a fact
admitted or alleged in such pleading.

§ 646. It is not necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading
the items of an account therein alleged, where they exceed twenty
in number, but he must deliver to the adverse party, within ten
days, after a. demand thereof in writing, a copy of the account
verified by his own oath, or that of his agent or attorney, to the
effect that he believes it to be true, or be precluded from giving
evidence thereof. The court, or a judge thereof, or a county

judge, may order a further account, when the one delivered is
defective.

§ 647. In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its eiiect, its allegations must be liberally construed,
with a view to substantial justice between the parties. ‘

§ 648. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserterd in a

pleading, it may be stricken out by_ the court, on its own view of
it, or upon motion of any person aggrieved thereby. And when

the allegations of a pleading are so indeiinite or uncertain, that
the precise nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the

court may require the pleading to be made definite -and certain,
by amendment.

§ 649. In an action for the recovery of real property, it .must
be described in the complaint with such convenient certainty, as
to enable an officer upon execution to identify it. _

§ 650. In pleading a judgment, or other determination, of‘ a
court or officer of special jurisdiction, it is not necessary to state
the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may be stated to have been duly given or made. If
such allegation be controverted, the party pleading must establish
on the trial, the facts conferring jurisdiction. .

§ 651. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in
a contract, it is not necessary to state the facts, showing such performance; but it may be stated generally, that the party duly
performed all the conditions on his pa rt; and if such allegation
be controverted, the party pleading must establish on trial the
facts showing such performance. In an action or defense founded
upon an instrument for the unconditional payment of money

only it is sufficient for a party to give a copy of the instrument

and to state that there is due thereon, from the adverse party, a
specified sum which he claims, '

§ 652. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived there£rom,it is sufiicient to refer to such statute, by its title and the
day of its passage, and the court must thereupon takejudlcial
notice thereof. , ' '

§ 653. In an action for libel or slander, itis not necessary to
state in the complaint, any extrinsic facts, for the purpose of
showing the application to the plaintifff, of the defamatory matter

out of which the cause of action arose; but it is suihcient to state
generally, that the same was published or spoken concerning the

plaintifff, and if such allegation be controverted, the plaintifff must
establish, on the trial, that it was so published or spoken.

§ 654. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant may in his answer, allege both -the truth of the matter charged
a defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances, to reduce

the amount of damages; and whether he prove the justification
or not, he may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.

§ 655. In an action to recover the possession of property distrained for doing damage, an answer that the defendant, or person
by whose command he acted, was lawfully possessed of the real
property upon which the distress was made, and that the property distrained was at the time doing damage thereon, is sufhcient
without setting forth the title to such real property. . '

§ 656. The plaintiii‘ may unite in the same complaint several
causes of action, whether they be such as have heretofore been

denominated legal or equitable, or both, where they all arise

out of :
1. The same transaction or transactions connected with the

same subject of action.
2. Contract, express or implied: or,

3. Inj urles with or without force to person and property, or
either : —

4. Injuries to character: or,

6. Claims to recover specific real property, with or without
damages, forthe withholding thereof, and the rents and profits
of the same: or, ‘

6. Claims to recover specific personal property, with or without damages, for the withholding thereof : or,

7. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by operation of law : or,
But the causes of action, so united, must all belong to one of

these classes, and must affect all the parties tothe action, and not
require different places of trial, and must be separately stated.

§ 657. Every material allegation of the complaint not specifically controverted by the answer, as prescribed in section 638;
and every material allegation of new matter in the answer constituting a counterclaim, not controverted by the reply, as prescribed in section 644, must for the purposes of the action,be

taken as true. But the allegation of new matter in the answer
not relating to a counterclaim, or of new matter in a reply, is
to be deemed controverted by the adverse party, as upon a direct
denial, or avoidance as the case may require.

§ 658. A material allegation in a pleading, is one essential to
the claim or defense, and which could not be stricken from the
pleading, without leaving it insullicient.

CHAPTER VI.

MISTAKE: IN puzanmcs, AND amaxnmnms.

§ 659. No variance between the allegation in a pleading and
the proof, is to be deemed material unless it have actually misled the adverse party, to his prejudice in maintaining his action
ordefense, upon the merits. Whenever it is alleged, that a
party has been so misled that fact must be proved to the satisfa.ction of the court and it must be shown in what respect he has

been misled; and thereupon the court may order the pleading

to be amended, upon such terms as may be just.

§ 660. Where the variance is not material, as provided in the
last section, the court may direct the fact to be found according
to the evidence, or may order an immediate amendment, without costs.

§ 161. Where, however, the allegation of the claim or defense to
which the proof is directed is unproved, not in some particular
or particulars only, but in its entire scope and meaning, it is not
to be deemed a case of variance, within the last two sections,
but a failure of proof-.

§ 662. Any pleading may be once amended by the party of
course, without costs, and without prejudice to the proceedings already had, at any time before the period for answering it

expires, or, if it do not delay the trial, it can be so amended at
any time within twenty days after service of the answer to such
pleading. In such case a copy of the amended pleading must be
served on the adverse party. After the decision of a demurrer,
either at a general or special term, the court may, in its discretion, if it appear that the demurrer was interposed in good
faith, allow the defendant to answer, upon such terms as to trial
by the court of referees, or as to costs, or otherwise, as may be
just. If the demurrer be allowed for the cause mentioned in the
5th subdivision of 633, the court may, in its descretion, and upon
such terms as may be just, order the action to be divided into
as many actions as may be necessary to the proper determination of causes of action therein mentioned.

§ 663. The court may, at any time, before or after judgment,
in furtherance of justice, and on such _terms as may be proper,
amend any pleading or proceeding, by adding or striking out
the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of
a party or a mistake in any other respect, or by inserting other
allegations material to the case, or, when the amendment does
not change substantially the claim or defense, by conforming
the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, allow an answer or reply to be made,
after the time limited by this act, or by an order enlarging such
time, and may also, at any time within one year after notice
thereof, relieve a party from a judgment, order, or other proceeding, taken against him through his mistake, inadvertance,
surprise, or excusable neglect; and may supply anomission, in
any proceeding. And whenever any proceeding taken by a party
faik to conform in any respect to the provisions of this code, the
court may permit an amendment of such proceedings, so as to
make it conformable thereto.

§ 664. When the plaintifff is ignorant of the name of a defendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proeeeding, by any name; and when his true name is discovered,

the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.
§ 665. The court must, in every stage of an action, disregard

any error, or defect in the pleadings or proceedings, which
does at axect the substantial rights of the adverse party; and

no judgment can bereversed or affected by reason of such error
or defect.

§ 666. The plaintifff and defendant respectively, may be allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental complaint, answer or

reply, alleging facts material to the case, occurring after the former complaint, answer or reply. '

TITLE VII.

OF THE PROVISIONAL REMEDIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I.

ARREST AIID BAIL.

§ 667. N 0 person can be arrested in a civil action, except as
prescribed by this chapter ; but this provision does not apply to
proceedings for contempt.

§ 668. The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter prescribed, in the following cases :

1. In an action for the recovery of damages, on a cause of action not arising on obligation, where the defendant is not a resident of the state, or is about to remove therefrom, or where the
action is for an injury to aperson, or character, or for injuring,
or for wrongfully taking, detaining or converting property.

2. In an actionifor a fine, or penalty, or on a promise to marry,
or for money received or property embezzled, or fraudulently
misapplied, or converted to his own use,by a public officer, or an
officer or agent of a corporation, or an attorney, factor, broker,
agent or clerk, in the course of his employment as such, or by
any other person in a fiduciary capacity, or for misconduct or neglect in office or in a professional employment:

3. In an action to recover the possession of personal property
unjustly detained, where the property or any part thereof has

. been concealed, removed or disposed of, so that it cannot be found

or taken by the sheriff, and with the intent that it should not be
as found or taken, or with the intent to deprive the plaintifff of
the benefit thereof : 4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud, in contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation, for which the actio

brought, or in concealing or disposing of the property, for the
taking, detention, or conversion of which the action is brought:

5. When the defendant has removed, concealed or disposed of,
his property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors:

6. When the arrest of the defendant is expressly authorized by
special statutes, in an action for a fine or penalty, or for a willful
violation of duty. But no female can be arrested, in any action,
except for a willful injury to person’, character or property :

§ 669. An order for the arrest of the defendant, must be obtained from a judge of the court in which the action is brought,
or if’ the action be in the supreme court, from a county judge.

§ 670. The order may be made, whenever it appears to the
judge by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or of any other person, that

a suiiicient cause of action exists, and that the case is one of

those mentioned in section 668.

§ 671. Before making the order, the judge must require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiti‘, with or without sureties, to the ed‘ect, that if the defendant recover judgment, the
plaintiff will pay all costs and charges that may be awarded to
the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason
of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking,
which must be at least one hundred dollars. If the undertaking

be executed by the plaintiff, without sureties, he must annex
thereto an atiidavit, that he is a resident and householder or freeholder within the state, and worth double the sum specified in
the undertaking, over all his debts and liabilities.

§ 672. The order may be made, to accompany the summons, or
at any time afterwards, before judgment. It must require the

sherif of the county, where the defendant may be found, forthwith to arrest him and hold him to bail in a specified sum, and
to return the order at a time and place therein mentioned, to the

plaintifff or attorney by whom it is subscribed or endorsed.
§ 673. The affidavit and order of arrest must be delivered tothe sheriff, who, upon arresting the defendant, must deliver to
him a copy thereof.

§ 674. The sheriff must execute the order, by arresting the defendant and keepinghimin custody, until discharged by law.

§ 675. The defendant, at any time before execution, may be
discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail, or upon
depositing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as provided in this chapter.

§ 676. The defendant may give bail, by causing a written
undertaking to be executed by two or more sufficient bail, stating
their places of residence and occupations, to the effect, that the
defendant shall at all times render himself amenable to the process of the court, during the pendency of the action, and to such
as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein, or if he be
arrested for the cause mentioned in the third subdivision of section 668, an undertaking to the’ same effect as that provided by section 700.

§ 677. At any time before a failure to comply with their undertaking, the bail may surrender the defendant in their exoneration,

or he may surrender himself to the sheriff of the county where
he was arrested, in the following manner:
1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail must be

delivered to the sheriff, who shall detain the defendant in his
custody thereon, as upon an order of arrest, and by a certihcate
in writing acknowledge the surrender:

2. Upon the production of a copy, of the undertaking and
8heritf’s certificate, a judge of the court or, if the action be in

the supreme court, a county judge may, upon anoticetothe
plaintifff, of eight days with a copy of the certificate, order that

the bail be exonerated ; and on tiling the order and the papers
used on such application, they shall be exonerated accordingly.

But this section does not apply to bail upon an arrest for the
cause mentioned in the third subdivision of section 668.

§ 678. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail,
at any time or place, before they are iinally charged, may themselves arrest him, or by a written authority, endorsed on a certified copy of the undertaking, may empower any person of suitable age and discretion to do so. _

§ 679. In case of failure to comply with the undertaking, the
bail can be proceeded against by action on] y.

§ 680. The bail may be exonerated, either by the death of the
defendant, or his imprisonment in a state prison, or by his legal
discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the

process, or by his surrender to the sheriff of the county where he
was arrested, in execution thereof, within twenty days after the
commencement of the action against the bail, or within such
further time as may be granted by the court.

§ 681. Within the time limited for that purpose, the sheriff
must deliver the order of arrest to the plaintifff or attorney by
whom‘ it is subscribed, with his return endorsed, and the undertaking of the bail or a certified copy thereof. The plaintifff,
within ten days thereof, may serve upon the sheriff, a notice
that he does not accept the bail, or he must be deemed to have
accepted it, and the sheriff shall be exonerated from liability.

§ 682. On the receipt of the undertaking or copy and notice,
the sheriff or defendant may, within ten days thereafter, give to
the plaintifff or attorney by whom the order of arrest is subscribed, notice of the justification of the same or other bail
specifying the places of residence and occupations of the latter),
before a judge of the court, or county judge, or justice of the

peace, at a specified time and place ; the time to be not less than
hve, nor more than ten days thereafter. In case other bail be

given, there must be a new. undertaking, in the form prescribed
in section 676.

§ 683. The qualifications of bail must be as follows:

1. Each of them must be a resident, and householder or freeholder, within the state:

2. They must each be worth the amount specified in the order
of arrest, exclusive of property exempt from execution, but the
judge, or a justice of the peace, on justification, may allow more
than two bail to justify severally in amounts less than that expressed inthe order, if the whole justification be equivalent to

that of two sufficient bail.
§ 684. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail must

attend before the judge, or a justice of the peace, at the time and
place mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on oath, on

the part of the plaintifff, touching his sulliciency, in such manner
as the judge or justice of the peace, in his discretion, may think
proper. The examination must be reduced to writing and subscribed by the bail. if required by the plaintifff.

§ 685. If the judge or justice find the bail sutiicient, he must

annex the examination to the undertaking,endorse his allowance
thereon, and cause them to be filed with the clerk; and the
sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated from liability. ,

§ 686. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead of
giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned in the
order. The sheriff must thereupon give the defendant a certificate of the deposit, and the defendant shall be discharged out of
custody.

§ 687. The sheriff must, within four days afterthe deposit, pay
the same into court ; and take from the officer receiving the
same, two certificates of such payment, the one of which he
must deliver to the plaintifff, and the other to the defendant. For
any default in making'such payment, the same proceedings may
be had on the oilicial bond of the sheriff to collect the sum
deposited, as in other cases of delinquency.

§ 688. If money be deposited, as provided in the last two sections, bail may be given and justified upon notice, as prescribed
in section 682, at any time before judgment; and thereupon the
judge before whom the justification is had, must direct, in the
order of allowance, that the money deposited be refunded by the
sheriff to the defendant, and it must be refunded accordingly.

§ 689. Where money shall have been so deposited, if it remain
on deposit at the time of an order or judgment for the payment
of money to the plaintifff, the clerk must, under the direction of
the court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and after satisfying the judgment, refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant.
If the judgment be in favor of the defendant, the clerk must
refund to him the whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied.

§ 690. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or be rescued, or bail be not given or justified, or a deposit be not made
instead thereof, the sheriff shall himself be liable ‘as bail. But:
he may discharge himself from such liability, by the_ giving and
justification of bail as provided in sections 682, 683, 684 and 685,
at any time before process against the person of the defendant, to
enforce an order or judgment in the action.

§ 691. If a judgment be recovered against the sheriff, upon
his liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the same proceedings may be had on

the official bond of the sheriff to collect the deficiency, as 11
other cases of delinquency.

§ 692. The bail taken upon the arrest, shall, unless they justify
or other bail be given or justiiied, be liable to the sheriff, by
action, for the damages which he may sustain by reason of such
omission. ,

§ 693. A defendant arrested may, at any time before the just?
iiication of bail, apply, on motion, to vacate the order of arrest,or
to reduce the amount of bail.

§ 694. If the motion be made upon aiiidavits on the part of the
defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiii‘ may oppose the same

by affidavits or other proofs, in addition to those on which the
order of arrest was made.

CHAPTER II. ' '

CLAIM AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

§ 695. The plaintiii‘, in an action to recover the possession of
personal property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at
any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such
property, as provided in this chapter. V

§ 696. Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit must be made
by the plaintiff, or by some one in his behalf, showing,

1. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed (particularly describing it), or is lawfully entitled to the possession
thereof, by virtue of a special property therein, the facts in respect

to which must be set forth :
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant:
3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his

best knowledge, information and belief:
4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment or

line, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution or attachment against the property of the plaintifff ; or if so seized,that
it is, by statute, exempt from such seizure; and,

5. The actual value of the property.

§ 697. The plaintifff may, thereupon, by an endorsement in wrilingupon the affidavit, require the sheriff of the county where
‘he property claimed may be, to take the same from the defendant, and deliver it to the plaintiff.

§ 698. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and notice, with a written undertaking, executed by one or more sufficient sureties, approved by the sheriff to the effect that they are bound, in double
the value of the property as stated in the affidavit, for the prosecution of the action,for the return of the property to the defendant, it'_ return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of
such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against the plaintifff,
the sheriff must forthwith take the property described in the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant, or his agent, and
retain it in his custody. He must also, without delay, serve on
the defendant a copy of the affidavit, notice and undertaking, by
delivering the same to him personally, if he can belfound, or to
his agent, from whose possession the property is taken ; or if neither can be found, by leaving them at the usual place of abode

of either, with some person of suitable age and discretion
§ 699. The defendant may, within three days after the service

of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the sherif that he excepts to the sufiiciency of the sureties. If he fail to
do so, he must be deemed to have waived all objection to them.
When the defendant excepts, the sureties must justify on notice in
like manner, as upon bail on arrest. And the sheriff shall be
responsible for the sutliciency of the sureties until the objection to

them is either waived as above provided,or until they justify. If
the defendant except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property as provided in the next section.

§ 700. At any time before the delivery of the property to the
plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of
the plaintifff, require the return thereof, upon giving to the sherif
a written undertaking, executed by two or more suiiicient sureties, to the effect that they are bound, in double the value of the
property, as stated in the affidavit of the plaintifff, for the delivery
thereof to the plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the
payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered

against the defendant. If a return of the property be not so required within three days after the taking and service of notice to
the defendant, it must be delivered to the plaintifff, except as provided in section 705.

§ 701. The defendant’s sureties, upon notice to the plaintifff of
not less than two nor more than six. days, must justify before a.

judge or justice of the peace, in the same manner as upon bail on
arrest; and upon such justification, the sheriff must deliver the
property to the defendant. The sheriff must be responsible for
the defendant’s sureties, until they justify, or until the justification is completed or expressly waived, and may retain the property until that time, but if‘ they, or others in their place, fail to
Justify, at the time and place appointed, he must deliver the pro.perty to the plaintifff.

§ 702. The qualification of sureties and their justitication,must
be such as are prescribed by sections 683 and 684, in respect to
bail upon an order of arrest.

§ 703. If the property or any part thereof be concealed in a
building or enclosure, the sheriff must publicly demand its delivery. If it be not delivered, he must cause the building or enclosure to be broken open, and take the property into his possession, and if necessary, he may call to his aid the power of his
county.

§ 704. When the sheriii‘ shall have taken property, as in this chapter provided, he must keep it in a secure place, and deliver
it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for

taking, and his necessary expenses for keeping, the same.
§ 705. If the property taken be claimed by any other person

than the defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit
of his title thereto or right to the possession thereof, stating the

grounds of such title or right and serve the same upon the sheriff, the sheriff shall not be bound to keep the property, or deliverit to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on demand of him or his
agent, indemnify the sheriff against such claim, by an undertaking, executed by two sufficient sureties, accompanied by their at‘idavits, that they are each worth double the value of the property as specified in the affidavit of the plaintifff, and feeeholders
and householders of the county. And no claim to such property
by any other person than the defendant or his agent, shall be
valid against the sheriff unless so made, and notwithstanding
Inch claim, when so made, he may retain the property a reasonable time to demand such indemnity

§ 706. The sheriff must file the notice and affidavit with his
Proceedings thereon. with the clerk of the court in which the action is pending, within twenty days after taking the property
mentioned therein.

CHAPTER III.

JNJUNCTION.

§ 707. An injunction is a writ or order, requiring a person to
refrain from a particular act. When granted as a provisional
remedy, it is by order. The order may be made by the court in
which the action is brought, or by a judge thereof, in the cases
prescribed in the next section; and when made by a judge, may
be enforced as the order of the court. .

§ 708. Where it appears by the complaint that the plaintifff is
entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part
thereof, consists in restraining‘ the commission or continuance of
some act, the commission or continuance of which, during the
litigation, would produce great or irreparable injury to the plaintiti‘, or when, during the litigation, it appears that the defendant
is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or su&'ering to be done, some act in violation of the plaintiff’s rights respecting the subject of the action,- and tending to render the
judgment ineifectual, a temporary injunction may be granted to
restrain such act. And where, during the pendency of an action,
the defendant threatens, or is about to remove, or dispose of his
property, with intent to defraud his creditors, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain such removal or disposition.

§ 709. The injunction may be granted at the time of issuing
the summons, or at any time afterwards, before judgment, upon
its ‘appearing satisfactorily to the court or judge, by the affidavit

of the plaintifff, or of any other person, that sufficient grounds ex- ’

ist therefore. A copy of the aiiidavit must be served with the
injunction.
§ 710. An injunction can not be allowed after the defendant

has answered, unless upon notice, or upon an order to show
cause; ' but in such case the defendant may be restrained until

the decision of the court or judge granting or refusing the injunction

§ 711. Where no provision is made by special statute as to security upon an injunction, the court or judge must require a

written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with or without
sureties, to the effect that the plaintifff will pay to the party enjoined, such damages, not exceeding an amount to be specified, as

he may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the court finally
decide that the plaintifff was not entitled thereto. The damages

may be ascertained by a reference, or otherwise, as the court may
direct.

§ 712. If the court or judge deem it proper that the defendant,
or any of several defendants, should be heard before granting the
injunction, an order may be made requiring cause to be shown,
at a specilied time and place, why the injunction should not be
granted; and the defendant may, in the mean time, be restrained.

§ 713. An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary:
business of a corporation must not be granted except by the

court; nor must it be granted without due notice of the applica- ‘

tion therefore, to the proper oiiicers of the corporation, except
where the people of this State are a party to the proceeding, and
except in proceedings to enforce the liability of stockholders in
corporations, after the tirst day of January, one thousand eight
hundred and fifty, as such proceedings are or shall be provided
by law, unless the plaintifff give a written undertaking, executed
by two suiiicient sureties, to be approved by the court, to the
eifect that the plaintifff will pay all damages not exceeding the
sum to be mentioned in the undertaking, which such corporation
may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the court finally decide that the plaintifff wgs not entitled thereto. The damages
may be ascertained by'a reference, or otherwise, as the court
directs. ~

§ 714. If the injunction be granted by a judge, without notice,

the defendant, at any time before the trial, may apply, upon notice, to any judge of the court in which the action is brought, to
vacate or modify the same. The application may be made upon

A the complaint and the affidavits on which the injunction was

granted, or upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, with or
without the answer. ' .

§ 715. If the application be made upon affidavits on the part
of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the

same by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to those on which
the injunction was granted.

CHAPTER IV.

AT'l‘ACHMEI\'T.

§ 716. In an action for the recovery of money against a corporation, crcated by or under the laws of any other state government or country, or against a defendant who is not a resident of
this State, or against a defendant who has absconded or concealed
himself as hereinafter mentioned, the plaintifff, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time afterwards, may have the
property of such defendant attached, in t.he manner hereinafter
prescribed, as a security for the satisfaction of such judgment as
the plaintifff may recover.

§ 717. An order for.the attachment must be obtained from a
judge of the court in which the action is brought, or if the action
he in the supreme court, from a county judge.

§ 718. The order may be made whenever it appears by affidavit, that a cause of action exists against such defendant, specifying the amount of the claim, and the grounds thereof, and that
the defendant, is either a foreign corporation, or not a resident of
this state, or has departed therefrom with intent to defraud his
creditors or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps himself
concealed therein with the like intent.

§ 719. Before making the order, the judge must require a
written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with
sufficient surety, to the effect, that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff' will pay all costs and charges that may be
awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain
by reason of,the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in
the undertaking, which must be at least two hundred and fifty

dollars. ‘

I

§ 720. The order must be directed tothe sheriff of any county _

in which property of such defendant may be, and require him to
attach and safely keep all the property of such defendant within
his county not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may
be sufficient to satisfy the plaintiii"s demand, the amount of which

must be stated, in conformity with the complaint. Several orders may be issued at the same time to the sheriff's of different
counties‘

§ 721. The rights or shares which the defendant may have -in
the stock of any corporation, together with the interest and profits
thereon, and all other property in this state of such defendant,
may be attached and sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.

§ 722. The sh 91 if, to whom the order is directed and delivered,
must execute the same without delay, as follows : '

1.. Real property must be attached, by leaving with the occupant thereof, or if there be no occupant, in a conspicuous place

thereon a copy of the order certilied by the sheriff :
2. Personal property, capable of manual d€1lVt ry to the sherih‘

must be attached by taking it into his custody: . _

3. Other personal property must be attached by leaving a certified copy of the order, and a notice specifying the property attached, with a person holding the same, or as to a debt with the
debtor, or as to stock or interest in stock of a corporaticn, with the
president or other head of the same, or the secretary, cashier, or
managing agent thereof. The ‘sheriff must make a full inventory
of the property attached, and return the same with the order of

attachment.

§ 723. Whenever the sheriff, with an o.rder*ofattachment, or’

with an execution against the defendant, applies to any person
mentioned in the third subdivision of the last section, for the purpose of attaching or levying upon the property mentioned therein, such person must furnish him with a certificate, designating

the number of rights or shares of the defendant in the stock of
the corporation, with any dividend or encumbrance thereon, or
the amount and description of the property held by such corporation or person, for the benefit of the defendant, or the debt owing

to the defendant. If such person refuse todo so, he may be required by the court or judge to attend beftre him, and be examined.

on oath concerning the same, and disobedience to the order may

be punished as a contempt. _

§ 724. If any of the property attached be perishable, the sheriff must sell the same in the manner in which property is sold on
execution, and immediately’ deposit the proceeds with the clerk
of the court. He must also collect, and if necessary, in his name
of office, sue for the debts and credits attached, and deposit the
amount collected with the clerk. Other property attached by
him, must be retained by him to answer any judgment that may

berecovered in the action, unless sooner subjected to execution
upon another judgment. ,

§ 725. The sheriff may deliver any of the property attached to
the defendant, or to any other person claiming it, upon his giving

a written undertaking therefore, executed by one or more suilicient sureties, engaging to redeliver it or pay the value thereof

° to the sheriff, to whom execution, upon a judgment obtained by

the plaintifff in that action, may be issued.

§ 726. If an action be brought upon such undertaking against
the principal or his sureties, it shall be a defense, that the property for which the undertaking was given, did not, at the execution of the order of attachment, belong to the defendant against
whom it was issued.

§ 727. If the property attached, be claimed by a third person
as his property,the sheriff may summon a jury to try the validity

of such claim, and such proceedings must be had thereon, with
the like effect, as in case of seizure upon execution.

§ 728. The defendant or claimant may be required to attend

before the c.ourt or judge, for the purpose of giving any necessary
information respecting the property attached, and may be thereupon examined on oath concerning the same.
§ 729. If judgment be recovered by the plaintifff in such action,

, the sheriff must satisfy the same out of the property attachedby

him, if it be suiiicient for that purpose:

1. By paying to the plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of perishable property, and of any vessel, or share or interest therein,
sold by him, or of any debts or credits collected by him, or so

much as shall be necessary to satisfy the judgment: _
‘ 2. ‘If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have

' been issued on the judgment, he must sell under the execution so

much of the attached property, real or personal, except as provided in subdivision four of this section, as may be necessary to

satisfy the balance, if enough for that purpose remain in his
hands; and in case of the sale of any rights or shares in the stock
of a corporation, the sheriff must execute to the purchaser a certificate of the sale, and the purchaser shall thereupon have all
the rights and privileges in respect thereto which were had by

the defendant.

\

3. If any of the attached property belonging to the defendant, shall have passed out of the hands of the sheriff, without
having been sold or converted into money, the sheriff must repossess himself of the same, and for that purpose shall have all
the authority, which he had to seize the same under the attachment, and any person who shall willfully honceal or withhold
such property from the sheriff, shall be liable to double damages
at the suit of the party injured.

4. Until the judgment against the defendant be paid, the sheriff
may collect the notes, other evidences of debt, and debts that_may
have been attached, and may prosecute any bond he may have

taken in the course of such proceedings, and apply the proceeds
thereof to the payment of the judgment; or, upon the order of
the court, he may sell such notes, evidences and debts,and apply

the proceeds in like manner.
When the judgment and costs shall have been paid, the sheriff
upon reasonable demand, must deliver over to the defendant the

residue of the attached property or the proceeds thereof.
§ 730. The actions authorized by sections 724 and 729, to be
brought by the sheriff, may be prosecuted by the plaintiil‘, or

under his direction, upon the delivery by him to the sheriff of an

undertaking executed by two suilicient sureties, to the etfect, that '

the plaintifff will indemnify the sheriff from all damages, costs
and charges on account thereof, not exceeding two hundred and

tifty dollars in any one action. Such sureties shall in all cases, _

when required by the sheriff, justify, by making an affidavit that
each is a householder, and worth double the amount of the penalty

of the bond, over and above all debts and liabilities. 

§ 731. If the foreign corporation, or absent, absconding or concealed detendant, recover judgment against the plaintifff, in such

action, any undertaking received by the sheriff, except such as is
mentioned in the last section, all the proceeds of sales and money
collected by him, and all the property attached remaining in his
hands, must be delivered by him to the defendant or his agent on
request; the order of attachment must be discharged, and the

property released therefrom. ~ .
§ 732. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in the
action, he may apply to the judge who issued the attachment, or

to the court, for an order to discharge the same, upon the execu-_
tion of the undertaking‘ mentioned in the next section; and if

the application be granted, all the proceeds of sales and monies
collected by the sheriff, and all the property attached remaining
in his hands, must be released from the attachment, and delivered

to the defendant.

§ 733. Upon such application, the defendant must deliver.to ,
the court or judge an undertaking executed by at least two sureties, resident and fret.-holders in this state,approved by such court
or judge, to the affect, that the sureties will on demand pay to
the plaintifff, the amount of the judgment that ‘may be recovered

against the defendant in the action, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which must be at least double the amount
claimed by the plaintifff in his complaint. But the court or judge
may at discretion, limit the amount of the undertaking to the
value of the property attached, and for that purpose may direct
the property to be appraised by a referee. ~

§ 734. The defendant may! also, any time before the time for
answering expires, apply on motion to vacate the order of attachment. ,
§ 735. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of the
defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same
by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to those on which
the order of attachment was made. —

§ 736. When the order of attachment is fully executed or discharged, the sheriff must return the same with his proceedings

thereon, to the court in which the action was brought.

CHAPTER V.

RECEI VER8.

§ 737. In the cases mentioned in the tirst subdivision of section
1539, the court may provisionally appoint a receiver of ‘property ;
and may protect and support him in the proper discharge of his
duties.

§ 738. A receiver, subject always to the control of the court,
‘has power to bring and defend actions; to take and keep possession of property ; collect debts; receive the rents and profits 0

real property, and generally to do such acts in respect to the preperby committed -to him as the court may authorize.


CHAPTER VI.

mzposrr rm oormr.

§ 739. When it is admitted by the pleading, or examination of
a party, that he has in his possession, or under his control, any

money or other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of the litigation, is held by him as trustee for another party
or which belongs, or is due, to another party, the court may or.

der the mme to be deposited in court or delivered to such party,
with or without security, subject to the further direction of the
court. ’

§ 740. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a court shall
have ordered the deposit, or delivery, or conveyance of money or

other thing, and the order is ‘ disobeyed, the court, besides pun-;
ishing the disobedience, may make an order requiring the she:-if
to take the money or thing, and deposit or deliver it, in conformity with the direction of the court.


TITLE v1_11.

OF THE TRIAL AND JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I.

JUDGMENI‘ IN GENERAL.

§ 741. Ajudgment is the final determination of the rights of’
the parties in the action. ‘

§ 742. Judgment may be given for or against one or more of
several plaintifffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants, and it may, when the justice of the case require it, determine the ultimate rights of the parties on he ch side, as between
themselves, and it may grant to the defendant any affirmative relief
to which he may be entitled. “

§ 743. In action against several defendants, the court may, in
its discretion, render judgment nga'i.~—st one or more of them,
leaving the action to proceed against the others, whenever a several jndgment is proper. 

§ 744. The relief granted to the pllaintiti',:—if there be no hntwer Z

cannot exceed that which he shall have demanded in his_complaint; but in any other case, the court may grant him any relief consistent with the case made by the complaint, and embraced
within the issue. 

§ 745. The action may be dismissed without a final determination of its merits, in the following cases: _

1. By the plaintifff himself, at any time before trial, if a provisional remedy has not been allowed, or counterclaim made:

2. By either party, with the written consent of the other:

3. By the court, when, upon the trial and before the final submission of the case, the plaintifff abandons it :

4. By the court, when the plaintifff fails to appear on the trial, and the defendant appears and asks for the dismissal :

5. By the court, on the application of some of the defendants,
when there are others whom’ the plaintifff fails to prosecute with
diligence. All other modes of dismissing an action by non-suit,
or otherwise, are abolished.

The dismissal mentioned in th_e_tirst two subdivisions is made
by an entry in the clerk’s register, and a notice served on the adverse party. Judgment may thereupon be entered accordingly.

§ 746. In every other case, other than those mentioned in the
last section, the judgment must be rendered on the merits.

§ 747. Though all the defendants have been served with the
summons, judgment may be taken against any of them severally,
when the plaintitl; would be entitled to judgment against such
defendants, if the action had been‘against them alone.

CHAPTER II.

JUDGMENT on FAILURE TO ANSWER.

§ 748. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to answer
the complaint, as follows:

1 . In an action arising on obligation, for the recovery of money
only, the plaintifff may file with the clerk proof of personal service of the summons, and that no answer has been received. The

clerk must thereupon enter’ judgment for the amount mentioned
in the summons, against the defendant, or against one ul‘ more of
several defendants, in the cases provided for in section 625 :

2. In other actions,.the plaintili‘ may, upon the like proof, apply to the court, after the expiration of the time for answering,
for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking of an
account or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court
to give judgment, or to carry the judgment into effect, the court
may take the account or hear the proof or may,. in its discretion,.
order a reference for that purpose. And where the action is for
the recovery of money only, or of specific, real or personal property, with damages for the withholding thereof, the court may *

order the damages to be assessed by a jury, or if the examination
of a long account be involved, by a reference as above provided:

3. In actions, where the service of the summons was by publication, the plaintifff may in like manner apply for judgment, and
the court must thereupon require proof to bemade of the demand
mentioned in the complaint, and if the defendant be not a resident of the state, must require the plaintifff or his agent to be examined on oath respecting any payments that have been made to
the plaintiE', or to any one for his use, on account of such demand, and may render judgment for the amount which he is entitled to recover. Before judgment the plaintifff must give satisfactory security to abide the order of the court touching the restitution of any property collected or received under the judgment, in case the defendant or his representatives are admitted to
defend the action and succeed in the defense.

CHAPTER in.

ISSUES, AND THE MODE OF TRIAL.

§ 749. Issues arise upon the pleadings, when a fact or conclution of law is maintained by the one party and controverted by
the other. They are of two kinds:

1. Of law : and,

2. Of fact.

§ 750. An issue of law arises,

1. Upon a demurrer to the complaint, or to some part thereof.

§ 751. An issue of fact arises, 1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, controverted’
by the answer: or, A

2. Upon new matter in the answer constituting a counterclaim,
‘controverted by the reply ; or, upon other new matter in the anf
swer: or,

3. Upon new matter in the reply : Issues both of law and of fact
may arise upon different parts of the pleadings in the same action. ‘ '

§ 752. A trial is the judicial examination of the issues between
the parties, Whether they be issues of law or of fact.

§ 753. An issue of law must be tried by the court, unless it be
referred, as provided in sections 3‘2.i'and 3525.

§ 754. An issue of fact, in an action for the recovery of money
only, or of specific real or personal property, ‘or for a divorce
from the marriage contract on the ground of adultery, must be
tried by a jury, unless a jury trial be w'aived, as provided in section 789, or a reference be ordered, as provided in sections 321
and 325.

§ 755. Every other issue of fact must be tried by the court,
subject, however, to the right of the parties to consent, or of the

court to order, that the whole issue, or any specific question of

fact involved therein, be tried by a jury, or be referred, as provided in sections 324 and 325.

§ 756. All issues, whether of law or fact, triable by a jury or
by the court, must be tried before a single judge. Issues of fact
in the supreme court must be tried at the circuits when the trial
‘is'by jury, otherwise at a circuit or a special term, issues of law
must be tried in the ilrst instance at a circuit, or special term,
or before a single judge, as provided in section 46.
§ 757. At any time after issue, and at least ten days before the
court, either party may give notice of trial. The party giving
the notice must furnish the clerk, at least four days before the
court, with a note of issue, containing‘the title of the action,
the names of the attorneys, and the time when the last pleading
was served ; and the clerk must thereupon enter the cause upon
the calendar, according to the date of the issue. The issues, once

placed upon the calendar of a circuit or special term, if not tried
at the circuit or term for which the notice was given, need not be

noticed for a subsequent circuit or term, but must remain upon
the calendar, from court to court, until finally disposed of. "But

when an issue of law is to be tried before a judge out of court,
no calendar need‘ be made or note of issue furnished.

§ 758. The issues on the calendar must be disposed of in the

following order; unless, for the convenience of parties or the dispatch of business, the court otherwise direct:

1. Issues of fact to be tried by a jury: _
2. Issues of fact to be tried by the court :

3. Issues of law.

§ 759 Either party, after the notice of trial‘, whether given by
himself, or by the adverse party, may bring the issue to trial, and
in the absence of the adverse party, unless the court, for good "i

cause, otherwise direct, may proceed with his case, and take a
dismissal of the action, or a verdict, or judgment, as the case
may require. '
§ 760. A separate trial, between the -plaintifff and any of
several defendants, or upon any of the issues, may be allowed
by the court, whenever, ‘in its opinion, justice will be thereby

promo ed. 
§ 761. A motion to postpone a trial for the absence of evidence,

can only be made upon aiiidavit, showing the materiality of the’

evidence expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has been '

used to procure it. The court may also require the moving
party to state the evidence which he expects to obtain, audit‘
the adverse party thereupon admit, that such evidence would
be given, and that it be considered as actually given on the trial,
or offered and overruled as improper, the trial must not hepostponed. , .

§ 762. The plaintifff must furnish the court before the trial begins with a copy of the summons and pleadings, and the offer of
the defendant, if any shall have been made. 

CHAPTER III.
TRIAL nv JU-RY.
ARTICLE I.

FORMATION OF THE JURY.

§ 763. When the action is called for tr.'al by jury, the clerk
Imst draw from the trial jury box of the court, the ballots conhhing the names of jurors, until the jury is completed or the

ballots are exhausted. If the ballots become exhausted before
the jury is complete, the sheriff‘, under ‘the direction of the
court, must summon from the bystanders or the body of the

county, so many qualfiledpersons as to complete the jury.

§ 764. As soon as the drawing of the jury is completed, an
oath must be administered to each juror, that he will well and
truly try the matter in issue between ——— the plaintifff, and
—— the defendant, and a true verdict give, according to the
evidence; or at the first appearance of the panel the whole may
be sworn at once to swear such issue as may be submitted to
them. .

§ 765. When the jury is completed the ballots containingthe
names oi the jurors drawn must be laid aside, till the jury so

sworn is discharged, and then they must be returned to the box;
and every ballot drawn containing the name of ajuror not so

sworn must be returned to the box as soon as the jury is completed. V ,

§ 766. Either party may challenge the jurors, but when there
are several parties on either side, they_ must join in a challenge. The challenges are to the panel and to individual jurors,
as in criminal actions, except that there can be but two, perempjtory challenges on each side; and all challenges must be tried

in the same manner as in criminal actions.
ARTICLE I.

CONDUCT on THE TRIAL. '

§ 767. When the jury has been completed the trial must proceed
in the following order, unless the court, for special reasons, otherwise directs:

1. The plaintifff after stating the issue, must open the case
and produce.the evidence on his part:
2. The defendant may then open his defense, and oifer his

evidence in snpport thereof:
_ 3. The parties may then respectively offer rebutting evidence
only, 'unless the court for good reason, in furtherance of justice,
permit them to otfer evidence upon, the original case: '

4. When the evidence is concluded, unless the case be submitted to the jury on either side, or on both sides, without

argument, the defendant ‘must commence, and the plaintiff conclude the argument to.the jury : ‘ , 

5. If several defendants, having separate defenses, appear by
different counsel, the court must determine their relative order in
the evidence and argument:

6. The court may then charge the jury. :

§ 768. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is proper that
the jury; should have a view of real property which isthe subject
of the litigation, or of the place in which any material fact occurred, it may order the jury to be conducted in a body, in the
custody of proper officers, to the place, which will be shown to
them by the judge, or by a person appointed by the court for that
purpose. While the jury are thus absent, no person, other than
the judge or person so appointed, must speak to them on any subject connected with the trial. ,
§ 769. The jurors may be kept together in charge of proper

officers, or may, in the discretion of the court, at any time before

the submission of the cause to the jury, be permitted to separate.
In either case, they may be admonished by the court, that it is

their duty not to converse with any other person or among them-‘

selves, on any subject connected with the trial, or to form or express
any opinion thereon, until the cause is finally submitted to them.
§ 770. If, after the empaneling the jury, and before the verdict, a

juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform his duty, the
court may order him to be discharged. In that casea new juror

may be sworn, and the trial begin anew; or the jury may be discharged, and a new jury then or afterwards empaneled.

§ 771. In charging the jury, the court inust state to them all
matters of law which it thinks necessary for their information in
giving their verdict ; and if it present the facts of the case, it
must also inform the jury that they are the exclusive judges of
all questions of fact. —

§ 772. After hearing the charge, the jury may either decide in
court, or retire _for deliberation. If they retire, they must be
kept together in a room provided for them, or some other convenient place, under the charge of one or more _officers, until they
agree upon their verdict, or are discharged by the court. The
officer must, to the utmost of his ability, keep the jury thus together, ‘separate from other persons, without drink except water,
and without food, except ordered by the court ; he must not suffer any communication to be made to them, nor make any himself,
unless by order of the court, except to ask them if they have
agreed upon their verdict, and he must not, before the verdict is
rendered, communicate to any person the state of their deliberations or the verdict agreed on.
§ 773. If, while thejury are kept together, either during. the
progress of the trial or after their retirement for deliberation, the
court order them to be provided with suitable and sufficient food
‘ and lodging, they must be so provided by the sheriff, at the expense of the county, orgif the trial be in a city court, at the
expense of the city. \
§ 774. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury may take with
them all papers (except depositions) which have been received
as evidence in the cause, or copies of such parts of public records
or private documents given in evidence, as ought not, in the
opinion of the court, to be taken from the person having them in
possession ; and they may also take with them notes of the testimony or other proceedings on the trial, taken by themselves or
.. any of them, but none taken by any other person.
§ 775. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there be
a disagreement between them as to any part of the testimony, or
if they desire to be informed of any point of law arising in the‘
cause, they may require the officer to conduct them into court.
Upon their being brought into court, the information required
must be given, in the presence of, or after notice to the parties or
counsel.
§ 776. Except as provided in sections 770 and 779, or in case
of someaccident or calamity, requiring their discharge, the jury
cannot be discharged after the cause is submitted to them, until
theylhave agreed upon their verdict, and rendered it in open
A court, unless by the consent of both parties enter_ed upon the
minutes, or unless at the expiration of such time as the court
deem proper it satisfactorily appear that there is no probability of
an agreement: A 7 ’
§ 777. In all cases where a jury are discharged, or prevented
from giving a verdict, by reason of accident or other cause, during
the progress of the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them,

the action may be again tried, immediately,or at a future time, as
the court directs. ‘

§ 778. While the jury are absent, the "court mayadjourn from
time to time, in respect to other business; but it is nevertheless to be deemed open, for every purpose connected with the
cause submitted to the jury, until a verdict is rendered or the
jury discharged. A final adjournment of the court discharges
the jury. .

§ 779. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict, they
must be conducted into court by the officer having them in charge.

Their names must then, be called ; and if all do not appear, the _

rest must be discharged without giving their verdict.
§ 780. If the jury appear, they must be asked by the court or
the clerk, whether they have agreed upon their verdict; and if

the foreman answer in the affirmative, they must, on being required, declare the same.

§ 781. When a verdict is rendered, and before it is recorded,
the jury may be polled on the request of either party, for which
purpose each juror must be_ asked whether’it be his verdict; if
any one answer in the negative, the jury must be sent out for further deliberation. If the verdict be informal or insuilicient, it

may be corrected by the jury" under the advice of the court, or
the jury may be again sentout.

§ 782. When the verdict is given.'and is such as the court may
receive,the clerk must immediately record it it in full in the
minutes, and must read it to the jury and inquire of them whether it be their verdict. If any juror disagree, the fact must be

entered in theminutes, and the jury again sent out; but if no t

disagreement be expressed, the verdict is complete, and the jury
must be discharged from the case.

ARTICLE III.

rm: vaanrpr.

§ 783. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A
general verdict, is that by which they pronounce generally upon
all or any of the issues either in’ favor of the plaintifff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which the jury find the facts
only, leaving the judgment to the court. It must present the
conclusions of fact as established by the evidence, and not the
evidence to prove them, and ‘those conclusions of fact must be so
presented, as that nothing remains to the court but to draw from
them conclusions of law.

§ 784. In every action for the recovery of money_only, or specific real property, the jury in their discretion, may render a general or special verdict. In all other cases, the court may direct
the jury to iind a-special verdict in writing, upon all or any of
the issues ; and in all cases may instruct them if they render a
general verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact, to be

stated in writing, and may direct a written finding thereon. The
special verdict or finding must be tied with the clerk and entered upon the minutes.

§ 785. Where a special finding of facts is inconsistent with the
general verdict, the former pontrols the latter, and the court must
give judgment accordingly.

§ 786. When a verdict is found for the plaintifff, in an action
for the recovery of money, or for the defendant, when a counter
claim for_ the recovery of money is established, beyond the amount
of the plaintifff’s claim as established, the jury must also assess
the amount of the recovery. They may also, under the direction
of the court, assess the amount of the recovery when the court
gives judgment for the plaintiff on the answer.

§ 787. In action for the recovery of specific personal property,
if the property have not been delivered to the plaintifff, or the defendant by his answer claim a return thereof, the jury must, if
their verdict be in favor of the plaintifff, or if being in favor of
the defendant, they also iind that he is entitled to a retnrn_thereof, must assess the value of the property, and may at the same
time assess the damages, if any are claimed in the complaint or

‘ answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by reason of the

taking or detention of such property.

§ 788. Upon receiving'a verdict, an entry must be made, in the
minutes of the court, specifying the time and place of the trial,
the names of the jurors and witnesses, the verdict, and either the
judgment to be rendered thereon, or where the court is in doubt

what judgment ought to be given, it may order that the cause be
reserved for argument or further consideration. If a diiferent

direction be not given by the court, the clerk must enter judgment in conformity with the verdict.

CHAPTER IV.

TRIAL BY THE COURT.

§ 789. Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties,_to
an i§ue of fact, in actions arising on obligations, and with the assentof the court, in other actions, in the manner following:

I. By failing to appear at the trial:

2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the
clerk:

3. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.

§ 790. Upo the trial of a question of fact by the court, its decision must be given in writing, and filed with the clerk, within
twenty days after the circuit or term at which the trial took place.
Judgment upon the decision must,be entered accordingly. When

a case is made the facts found and the conclusions of law must,

be separately stated.

§ 791. On a judgment ‘for the_plaintih‘ upon an issue of law,
the plaintitl may proceed in the manner prescribed by the first two subdivisions of section 748, upon the ailure of the defendant to
answer, where the summons was personally served. If judgment

be for the defendant, upon an issue of law, and the taking of an
account or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court

to complete the judgment, a reference may be ordered, as in that section provi e .
CHAPTER V.
, _ -rnuu. av REFEREES. .

§ 792. A trial by referees is conducted in the same manner as

a trial by the court, and on similar notice. "1" hey have the same

power to grant adjustment as the court upon such trial. They
must state the facts found and the conclusions of law separately.

§ 793. The report of the referees upon the whole issue stands
as the decision of the court, and judgment may be entered thereon in the same manner, as if the action had been tried by the
court ; and their decision may beexcepted to and reviewed in like

/

manner, but not otherwise, and they may in like manner settle a .

case. When the reference is to report the facts, the report has
the effect of a special verdict.

CHAPTER VI.

PROYI§ION8 RELATING TO TRIALS IN GENERAL.

ARTICLE I.

EXCEPTIONS.

§ 794. An exception is an objection taken at the trial to a decision upon a matter of law, whether such trial be by the jury, '

‘court, or referees, and whether the decision be made during the
forniation of a jury, the production of evidence, the charge to a
jury, or at any other time from the calling of the action for trial
to the rendering of the verdict or decision. But no exception is
to be regarded on a motion for a new trial, or on an appeal,"unt'
less the exception be material, and affect substantial rights of theparty.
§ 795. The point of the exception must be particularly stated,
and either delivered in writing to thejudge,or entered in his minutes,and immediately corrected or added to, until made comformable to the truth, or it may afterwards be settled, in a case, as
provided in section 800.

§ 796. No particular form of exception is required. The objection must be stated, with so much of the evidence as is necessary to explain it, but no more, and the whole as brieily as possi- ‘

ble. If the decision excepted to beverbally made, it must, upon
the exception being taken, be reduced to writing, _and entered

either inthe judge’s minutes, or the minutes of 'the court, or in V

the case.

ARTICLE II.

NEW TRIALS .

§ 797. A new trial is are-examination of an issue of fact, in
the same court, after a trial and decision by ajury, court, or
referees. 

§ 798. The former verdict or other decision may be vacated
and a new trial granted, on the application of the party aggrieved,for any of the following causes, materially affecting the substantial rights of such party : ‘

l. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or prevailing party, or any order of the court, or abuse of discretion,
by which either party was prevented from having a fair trial:

2. Misconduct of the jury, or of the prevailing part.y :

3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not
have guarded against: ‘

4. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the

- influence of passion .or -prejudice:

5. Insuiiiciency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other
decision: or that it is against law: , ~

6. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making
the application, - which he could not with reasonable diligence
have discovered and produced at the trial :

'7. Error in law, occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the
party making the application. I

§ 799. When the application is made for a cause, mentioned in
the fourth, lifth, and seventh subdivisions of the last section, it is
made either upon the judge’s minutes, or at the option of the
judges upon a case prepared as prescribed in the next section;
for any other cause it is made upon affidavit. When made upon
the judge’s minutes, and an appeal is taken, a case must be settled in the usual form. _ i

§ 800. The party preparing a case is to propose a draft of it,

and, within five days after the trial or notice of the decision,
serve it upon the adverse party, who may within five days thereafter, propose amendments to it. If no amendment be proposed,

the draft is adopted; if proposed, the case and amendments may
be submitted for settlement to the judge, or referee, before Whom

the trial was had, upon a notice of hve days ;‘ if such notice be
not served within five days after the amendments are proposed,
they are adopted. ' ,. '
§ 801. The application for a new trial or for judgment on special verdict or cause reserved for argument or further consideration, must, in the first instance, be made at the circuit or special

, term, except when made upon an appeal. But when exceptions

are taken, the judge trying the cause‘ may, at the trial, direct
them to be heard in the first instance, at the general term, and
the judgment in the mean time, suspended ; and in that case they

must be there heard in the first instance, and judgment there
given And when upon a trial the cause presents only questions
of law, the judge may direct a. verdict, subject to the opinion of
the court at a general term ; and in that case, the application for
judgment must be there made.

§ 802. The application for 'a cause mentioned in the 4th and
6th subdivisions of section 798, can only be made, when notice
thereof, oral or written, was given in open court, immediately
after the verdict or other decision rendered; and thereupon if
the adverse party consent, the court must appoint a day in the
same term for hearing the application upon the judge’s minutes.
If however the application be not heard at the same term, or if
an appeal be taken, a case must be made.

ARTICLE III.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

§ 803. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintiii may
claim and recover any rate of damages, to which he may be entitled, for the cause of action established. '

§ 804. Any party may, and if required by the court, must when
the evidence is closed, submit in distinct and concise propositions, the conclusions of fact which he claims to be established,
or the conclusions of law, which he desires to have adjudged, or

both; they may be written and handed to the court, or at the
option of: the court, oral and entered in the judge’s minutes; but

in either case they must be entered with any exceptions that may
be taken, if either party require it.

§ 805. The provisions of this title, respecting trials by jury,
apply, so far as they are in their nature applicable, to trials by

the court or referees, and, in the same manner, the provisions respecting trials’ by the court apply to trials by referees.

CHAPTER VII.

THE MANNER OF GIVING" AND ENTERING JUDGMENT. A

§ 806. When a trial by jury has been had,judgment must be
entered by the clerk, in conformity to the verdict, unless the

court order the case to be reserved for argument or further con~
sideration, or grant a stay of proceedings.

§ 807. When the case is reserved for argument or further con
sideration,‘as mentioned in the last section, on the ground that

judgment ought not to be given in conformity to the verdict, or
that it is doubtful what judgment should be given, the questions

reserved may be decided by the court, and judgment thereupon
rendered, without further argument, or if not so decided they
may be brought before the court for judgment, at a special term,
upon notice; and judgment thereupon rendered.

§ 808. If a counterclaim, established at the trial, exceed. the
plai:ititl’s demand so established, judgment for the defendant must
be given for the excess, or if it appear that the defendant is entiHed to any other affirmative relief, judgment must beigiven acoordingly.

§ 809. In an action to recover the possession of personal property, judgment’ for the plaintifff may be for the possession, or the

value thereof‘, in case a delivery cannot be had, and of damages
for the detention If the property have been delivered to the

plaintifff, and the defendant claim a return thereof, judgment for
the defendant may be for a return of the property, or the value

thereof, in case a return cannot be had, and damages for taking
and withholding the same.
§ 810. Judgment upon an issue of law, or of fact, or upon confession, or upon failure to answer (except where the clerk is au- ,

thorised to enter the same by the first subo‘ivision of section 748,
and except when it may be given at general term as provided by section 810, must, in the first instance, be entered upon the direction of
asingle judge, or the report of referees upon -the whole issue,
subjecttoreview at the general term, on the demand of either
party, as provided in this code.

§ 811. The clerk must keep among the records of the court, a
book for the entry of judgments, to be called the “ judgment book.”

§ 812. The judgment must be entered in the judgment hook,
and must specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the action.

§ 813. If a party die after a verdict or decision upon an issue
of fact, and before judgment, the court may nevertheless render
judgment thereon. Such judgment is not a lien on the real proPerty of the deceased party, but is payable in the course of ad.
ministration on his estate.

§ 814. Immediately after entering the judgment, the clerk must
attach together and file the following papers, which constitute the
judgment roll :

1. In case the complaint be "not answered by any defendant,
the summons andcomplaint, or copies thereof, proof of service,
and that no answer has been received, the report, if any, and a
copy of the judgment.

2. In all other cases, the summons, pleadlngs,or copies thereof,
and a-copy of the judgment with any verdict or report, the offer
of the defendant, case, and all orders relating to a change of parties, or in any way involving the merits, and necessarily anecting
the judgment. If a statement of the case be made, the same may
be attached to the judgment roll, "on the request of either party,
and thenceforth forms a part thereof.

~ When the defendant is entitled to judgment, if the plaintifff

shall not have filed the summons, with proof of service and the

_ pleadings on his part, the copies of summons and pleadings served

on the defendant, may be substituted therefore in making the
judgment roll, or the plaintifff may, at the instance of the defendant, be ordered by a judge forthwith to file such papers.’

Upon on exempliiication of ‘a judgment, as evidence only that part
of the roll which consists of the summons, pleadings and judgment
need be given.» - . ‘

§ 815. On filing a judgment roll upon a judgment requiring the
payment of money, the judgment may be docketed with the clerk
of the county where it was rendered, and in any other county,
upon nling with the clerk thereof a transcript of the original
docket ; and thereupon the judgment becomes a lien on real property in the county, from the time of docketing it therein. But

whenever an appeal from any judgment shall be pending,and the
undertaking requisite to stay execution on such judgment shall

have been given, the court in which the judgment was recovered
may, upon notice to the judgment creditor, and on such terms as
may be just, direct an entry to be made by the clerk on the docke t,
that the same is secured on appeal, and thereupon it shall cease
during the appeal to be a lien as against purchasers and mortgagees in good faith.

§ 816. The lien mentioned in the last section, extends to all the
real property of the judgment debtor in thejcounty, owned by him.at

the time of the judgment, or afterwards acquired, and continues
tillthe first day of October, 1863, on all unsatisfied judgments
rendered, or which may be rendered before that time. But after
the first day of October, 1863, there can be no such lien.

§ 817. The docket mentioned in section 815 is a book, which
the clerk must keep in his office, and in which he must enter alphabetically, under the name of each person,

1. The names of the parties to the judgment:
2. The amount of the judgment: and

3. The precise time of his entry. ‘ _
§ 818. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in the clerk’s

register and docket, upon an execution returned satisiied, or upon
an acknowledgment of ‘ satisfaction filed with the clerk, made in
the manner of an acknowledgment of a conveyance of real proproperty, by the judgment creditor, or within two years after the
judgment, by the attorney, unless a revocation of his authority is
previously entered upon the register._ Whenever a judgment is
sstisiied in fact, otherwise than upon an execution, it is the duty
of the party or attorney to give such acknowledgment, and upon
motion, the court may compel it, or may order the entry of satisfaction to be made without‘ it. And whenever a judgment is satisfied in fact as to any one of several defendants, an entry to that ‘

effect may be made in the register and docket.

TITLE IX.

OF THE ‘EXECUTION OF THE JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I.

THE EXECUTION.

§ 819. The party in whose favor judgment is given, may at any
time within five years after the entry thereof, proceed to enforce
the same as prescribed in this title.

§ 820. There are three kinds of writs of execution; one against ‘

the property of the judgment debtor; another against his person;
and the third for the delivery of the possession of real or personal
property, or such delivery with damages for withholding the
lame. They are issued in the name of the people and are deemed

the process of the court,but they need not be sealed nor subscribed,
except as prescribed in the next section. b J

§ 821. The writ of execution must be directed to the sheriff,
subscribed by the party issuing it, or his attorney, and must
intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the court, the county
where the judgment roll or transcript is filed, the names of the
parties, the amount of the judgment, if it be for money, the
amount actually due thereon, and the time of docketing in the
county to which the execution is issued, and must require the

° sheriff substantially as follows :° _

1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it must
require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of
the personal property of such debtor, and if sufficient personal
property cannot be found out of his real property, or if the
judgment be a lien on real property, then out of the real property
belonging to him on- the day when the judgment was docketed
in the county, or at any time thereafter, or if the judgment be

entered pursuant to the first subdivision of section 625, the execution must conform to such judgment :

2. If it be against real or personal property, in the hands of
personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real
property, or trustees, it must require the sheriff to satisfy the
judgment, with interest, out of such property:

3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it must

‘require the sheriff to arrest such debtor, and commit him to the

[jail of the_ county, until he pay the judgment, with interest, or

be discharged according to law : ,

4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal
property, it must require the sheriii‘ to deliver the possession of
the same, particularly describing it to the party entitled thereto,
and may at the same time require the sheriff to satisfy any costs

charges, damages, rents or profits recovered by the same judg-ment, out of the personal proper-ty.of the party against Whom it

,was rendered, and'the value of the property for which the judgJnent was recovered to be specified therein, if a delivery thereof

cannot be had, and if suilicient personal property cannot be found,

then out of real property, as provided in the first subdivision of
this section, and in that respect it is to be deemed an execution

against property.

§ 822. The execution must be made returnable within sixty
days after its receipt by the sheriff,‘ to the clerk with whom the
judgment roll is filed. '

§ 823. When a judgment requires the payment of money or the
delivery .of real or personal property, the same is enforced in
those respects by execution, as provided in the last three sections.
Where it requires the performance of any other act, a certified
copy of the judgment may be served upon the party against
whom it is given, or upon the person or /officer who is required
thereby, or by ‘law, to obey the same, and his obedience thereto
enforced. If he refuse, he may be punished by the court, as for
a contempt. ‘

§ 821. After the lapse of five years from the entry of judgment,
if no execution have been already issued, an execution can be issued only by leave of the court on motion, upon notice to the adVerse party. Such leave must not be given unless it be established by the oath of the party, or other proof, that the judgment,
or some part thereof’, remains unsatisfied and due.

W'hen the judgment has been rendered in a justice’s court, and
docketed in the office of the clerk of p the county, the application
for leave to issue execution must be to the county court of the
county where the judgment was rendered, or in the city and
county of New.Yorlt, to the court of common pleas of that city,
and such court has jurisdiction over the judgment and execution.

§ 825. Notwithstanding the death of a party after judgment,
execution thereon against his property may be issued and executed in the same manner and with the same effect, as if he were

still living, except that such execution ‘cannot be issued within a
ya; after his death, unless upon permission granted by the surrogate.
§ 826. Where the execution is against the property of the
- ‘ ' d to the sheriff of any county
Judgment debtor, it may be issue .
where the judgment is docketed. Where it requires the delivery
of 1.93] or personal property, it must be issued to the sheriff of
the county where the property, or some part thereof, is situated.
Executions may be issued, at thesame time, to different counties.
§ 327. If the action be one in which the defendant might have
been arrested, as provided in the first three subdivisions of section 668, an execution against the person of the judgment debtor

may be issued to any county within the jurisdiction of the court,
after the return of an execution against his property, unsatisfied
in whole or in part. An execution against the person may likewise be issued, after such return, in the cases mentioned in the
fourth and iifth subdivisions of that section, where the defendant
has been provisionally arrested in the action, and the order for
his arrest has not been vacated, or upon an order of arrest obtained in the same manner as for a provisional arrest.
§ 828. A person arrested on execution must be imprisoned

within the jail, or the liberties thereof, and there kept at his own
expense, until satisfaction of the execution, or his legal discharge.

§ 829. When a defendant has been once imprisoned upon execution, no other execution can issue upon the same judgment,
unless he escape or die, while charged in execution, or unless he
be discharged without the consent of the judgment creditor.

§ 830. All property liable to an attachment is liable to execution.‘ It must be levied ,on, in the same manner as similar
property is attached, pursuant to section 722. Until a levy,
property is not affected by the execution, but when there are
several executionsiii the hands of the same sheriff or his deputies, the proceeds of the sale must be applied in the order of the
delivery of the executions to the sheriff or- deputies. '

§ 831. If the property levied on be claimed by a third person
as his property, the sheriff may summon from his county any
twelve persons, qualified as jurors between the parties, to try the
validity of the claim. They and the witnesses must be sworn
by the sheriff and if their verdict be in favor of the claimant,
he sheriff may after reasonable notice, relinquish the levy, unless
thej udgment creditor after reasonable notice, give him a sufficient
indemnity for proceeding thereon. The fees of the jury must be
paid by the claimant, it’ the verdict be against him, otherwise by
the plaintifff.

§ 832. The following property owned by a householder, and in
actual use, or kept,for use by and for his family, or when being
removed from one habitation to another upon a change of residence, is exempt from execution, except as herein otherwise. specially provided:

1. Books, pictures, and musical instruments, to the value of
one hundred dollars:

2. Necessary household, table and kitchen furniture,includi_ng*

stoves, stove pipe, and stove furniture, wearing _apparel, beds,
bedding and bedsteads, provisions actually provided for family
use, suilicient for six months, including meat, fish, vegetables,
limit and meal, with fuel for sixty days, one cow, ten sheep, two
swine, and food for them for three months:

3. The seat or pew occupied by the debtor or his family, in a
house of public worship, and a family burial place, whether on
his own grounds or in a public cemetery :

4. The tools and implements of a mechanic, necessary to carry
on his trade :

5. A horse, harness, and cart or other vehicle, by the use of

which a physician, constable, cartman, teamster, or other laborer, habitually earns his living. But the aggregate value of all

the property so exempt, cannot exceed two hundred and fifty
dollars; nor is any article exempt from an execution issued on a
judgment for its price. .
6. Such homestead as is exempt from execution by virtue of chapter 260, of the Laws of 1850. » , ’
§ 833. The sheriti must execute the writ against the‘ property
of the judgment debtor, by levying on the property, collecting
the things in action, as prescribed by section_724 and the fourth subdivision of section 729, selling the other property, and paying
to the plaintiii‘ the proceeds or so much thereof as will satisfy
the execution. Q

§ 834. Before the sale of property on execution, notice thereof
must be given as follows: ,

I. In case of personal property, by posting written notice of
the time and place of sale, in three public places of the town
where the sale is to take place, six days successively: ”

2. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice describ-.

ng the property with the certainty prescribed by section 649, for
six weeks successively, in three public places of the town where

the property is situated, and also where the property is to be sold,
and publishing a copy thereof once a week for. the same period,

in a newspaper of the county,if there be one, or if there be none,
and the property is not occupied by the judgment debtor, or by

a tenant or purchaser under him, then in the state paper. After

the ‘first of July, 1863, such notice shall be a lien upon the property until the salethereof, and the filing the certificate of the

sale with ‘the clerk of the county.
§ 835. An oiiicer selling without the notice prescribed by the
last section, shall forfeit one hundred dollars to the aggrieved

party,‘ in addition to his actual damages, and a person taking
down or defacing the notice posted, if done before the sale or the

satisfaction of the execution, and without the consent of the parties, shall forfeit fifty dollars ; but the validity of the sale is not
affected by either act.

§ 836. A sale must be made by auction, between nine o’clock

in the morning and sunset ; after sufficient property has been sold to
satisfy the execution, no more must be sold ; neither the officer

holding the execution nor his deputy can purchase ; when the sale

is of personal property, capable of manual delivery, it must be
within view of those who attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels

as are likely to bring the highest price; and when the sale is of

real property and consisting of several known lots or parcels,
they must be sold separately, or when a portion of such real

property is claimed by a third person, and he requires it to be
sold separately, such portion must be thus sold.

§ 837. Upon a sale of real property, where the estate is less
than a leasehold of two years unexpired term, the sale is absolute.
In all other cases the property sold is subject to redemption as
provided in the next five sections; the officer must give to the
purchaser a certificate of the sale, proved or acknowledged so
that it may be recorded, containing, '

1. A particular description of the property sold:

2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel:

3. The whole price paid:
4. When subject to redemption, it must be so stated, a duplicate of which certificate must be filed by the officer with the
clerk of the county.

§ 838. Property sold subject to redemption, as provided in
the last section, or any part sold separately, may be redeemed,
in the manner provided in the next four sections, by the following persons or their successors in interest.

1. The judgment debtor, or his successor in interest, in the
whole or any part of the property.

2. A creditor, having a lien by judgment or mortgage on the
property sold, or on some share or part thereof, subsequent to
that on which the property was sold. The persons mentioned in
this section other than the judgment debtor, are in this chapter
termed redemptioners.

§ 839. The judgment debtor or redemptioners may redeem the
property from the purchaser Within six months after the sale,

on paying to the purchaser the amount of his purchase, and if
he be also a creditor having a lien prior to that of the redemptioner, the amount of such lien, with interest.
§ 840. If the property be so redeemed by a redemptioner,

either the judgment debtor or another redemptioner, may, within
thirty days after the last redemption, again redeem it from the
last redemptioner on paying the sum paid on his redemption, with
interest, and unless his lien be prior to that of the preceding
redemptioner, the amount of such lien, with interest. The
property may be again, and as often as the debtor or owner, or
any redemptioner is so disposed, redeemed from any redemptionor within thirty days after his redemption, and notice thereof
filed with the sheriff. If no redemption is made in six months
. after the sale, the purchaser is entitled to a conveyance ; or if so
redeemed, whenever thirty days have elapsed, and no redemption
has been made and notified therein, the time for redemption has

expired, and the last redemptioner is entitled to a sheriff’s deed.
Ifthe debtor or owner. redeem at any time before the time for redemption expires, the effects of the sale are terminated, and he
is restored to his estate. ‘

§ 841. The payment mentioned in the last two sections, may
bemade to the purchaser or redemptioner, as the case may be,
or for him, to the officer who made the sale; and a tender of the
money is equivalent to payment.

§ 842. A redemptioner must produce to the oiiicer or person
from whom he seeks to redeem, and file with his notice in the
sheriti"s oilice. «

1. Acopy of the docket of the judgment under which he
claims the right to redeem, certified by the clerk of the court or
of the county, where the judgment is docketed, or if he redeem

“P011 a mortgage or other lien, a note of the record thereof, certified by the clerk :

2. A copy of any assignment necessary -to establish his claim,
verified by «the affidavit of himself or of a subscribing witness
thereto: and

3. An affidavit by himself or his agent showing the amount
then actually due on the lien.
§ 843. Until the expiration of the time allowed for redemption, the court may restrain the commission of waste on the
property by order granted with or without nptice, on the application of the purchaser or the judgment creditor. But it is not
waste for the person in possession of the property at the time of
sale, or entitled to possession afterwards during the period allowed
for redemption, to continue to use itin the same manner in which

it was previously used, or to use it,in the ordinary course of husbandry, or to make the necessary repairs of buildings thereon, or
to use wood or timber on the property, therefore, or forthe repair
of fences, or for fuel in his family while he occupies the property.

§ 844. If the purchaser of real property sold on execution, or
his successor in interest, be evicted therefrom in consequence of

irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale, or of the
reversal or discharge of the judgment, he may recover the price

paid with interest from the judgment creditor. Such judgment '

creditor, if the recovery was in consequence of the ‘irregularity,
shall thereupon be entitled to a new execution on the judgment,
for the price paid on the sale witl1 interest ; and for that purpose
the judgment shall be deemed valid against the judgment debtor,
his personal representatives, heirs, or devisees, but not against a

purchaser in good faith, or an encumbrancer, whose title or encumbrance shall have accrued before a levy on such new execution.

§ 845. When property, liable to an execution against several
persons, is sold thereon, and more than a due proportion of the
judgment is levied upon, the property of one of them, or one of
them pays without a sale more than his proportion, he may compel contribution from the others. And when a judgment is against
several, and is upon an obligation of one of them, as security for
another, and the surety pays the amount or any part thereof:
either by sale of his property ‘or before sale, he may compel
repayment from the principal. In such cases the person so paying, or contributing, is entitled to the benefit of the judgment to

enforce contribution or repayment, if within ten days after his
payment he file with the clerk of the court, where the judgment

was rendered, notice of his payment and claim to contribution or
repayment. Upon the filing of such notice’, the clerk must make
an entry thereof in the margin of the docket.

CHAPTER II.

PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE EXECUTION.

§ 846. When an execution against property of the judgment
debtor, or of any one of several debtors, in the same judgment,
issued to the sheriff of the county where he resides, or if he do
not re.~ide in this State, to the sheriff of the county where the

judgment roll or a transcript of a justice’s judgment, is filed, is ,

returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, the judgment creditor, at

anytime after such return made, is entitled to an order from a
judge of the court, or a county judge of the county to which the

execution was issued, requiring such judgment debtor to appear
and answer, concerning his property, before such judge, or a
referee appointed by a judge of the ‘court, at a time and place

specified in the order.

§ 847. After the issuing of an execution against property, and

upon proof by atiidavit, of a party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court, or a judge thereof, or county judge, that any

judgment debtor has property, which he unjustly refuses to apply
towards the satisfaction of the. judgment, such court or judge
may, by an order, require the judgment debtor to appear at a specified time and place, to answer concerning the same ; and such
proceedings may thereupon be had, for the application of the
judgment debtor towards the satisfaction of the judgment, as are
provided, upon the return of an execution. - .

§ 848. Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the judgment debtor, as provided in the last two sections, the judge rriay,
upon proof by affidavit or otherwise, to his satisfaction that there

is danger of the debtor’s leaving the state, or concealing himself,
Issue a warrant requiring the sheriff of any county where such

debtormay be, to arrest him and bring him before such judge.
0 11 being brought before the judge, he may be examined on

oath, and ordered to enter into an undertaking with one or more
sureties, that he will attend from time to time before the judge or

referee, as he shall direct, during the pendency ofthe proceeding
and until the final determination thereof, and will not in the

meantime dispose of any portion of his property,not exempt from
execution. In default of entering into such undertaking, he may

be committed to prison, by warrant _of the judge.
§ 849. After the issuing of execution against property, any person indebted to the judgment debtor, may pay to the sheriff the
amount of his debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy the execution, and the sherili"s receipt shall be a sutiicient
discharge for the amount so paid.

§ 850. After the issuing or return of an execution against property of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in

the same judgment, ‘and upon proof by affidavit, or otherwise,
to the satisfaction of the judge, that any person or corporation has

property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to him in an ..‘
_ amount exceeding ten dollars, the judge may by an order require

such «person or corporation, or any officer or member thereof, to
appear at a specilied time and place, and answer concerning the
same. The judge may also, in his discretion, require notice of
such proceeding to be given to any party to the action, in such
manner as may seem to him proper. .

§ 851. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify upon
any proceedings under this chapter, in the same manner as
upon the trial of an issue.

§ 852. The party or witness may be required to attend before
thejudge, or before a referee, appointed by the court or judge. If
before a referee, the examination must be taken by the referee,
and certified to the judge. All examinations and answers before
a judge or referee, under this chapter, must be on oath, except
that when a corporation answers, the answer must be on the oath
of an oiiicer thereof. ,

§ 853. The judge may order any property of the judgment
debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands either of himself or any other person, or due to the judgment’ debtor, to be applied towards the satisfaction of the judgment, except that the
earnings of the debtor for his personal services, at any time within sixty days next preceding the order, cannot be so applied,
when it is made to appear by the debtor’s affidavit, or otherwise,

that such earnings are necessary for the use of a family supported wholly or partly by his labor.

§ 854. The judge may also, by order, appoint a receiver of the
property of the judgment deb_tor, in the same manner and with
the like authority, as if the appointment were made by the court.
The judge may also, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of the property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from
execution, and any interference therewith.

§ 855. If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to
have property of the judgment debtor, or indebted to him,
claims an interest in the property, adverse to him, or denies the
debt, such interest or debt is recoverable only in an action against

such person or corporation, by the receiver: but the judge may,
by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of such property
or interest, till a sufficient opportunity be given to the receiver

to commence the action, and prosecute the same‘ to judgment and

execution. Such order may be modified or vacated, by the judge T

granting the same, at any time, on such security as he may direct.

§ 856. The judge rfiay, in his discretion, order a reference to
a referee agreed upon or appointed by him, to report the evidence
or the facts.

§ 857. The judge may allow to the judgment creditor, or to
any person so examined, whether a party to the action or not, and
a fixed sum in addition, not exceeding ten dollars, as costs.

§ 858. If any person, party or witness, disobey an order of the
judge or referee, duly served, such person, party or witness, may

be punished by the judge, as for a contempt. The proceedings
therefore are prescribed in the title of the third part of this code
respeeting the punishment of contempts.

TITLE X.

OF THE COSTS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

§ 859. All statutes, establishing or regulating the costs or fees
of attorneys and counsel in civil actions, and all existing rules

and provisions of law, restricting or controlling the right of a
pa rty to agree with an attorney, or counsel for his compensation,

sare repealed; and hereafter the measure and mode of such compensation must be left to the agreement, express or implied, of the
parties. But there may be allowed to the prevailing party, certain sums by way of indemnity, for his expenses in the action ;
which allowances are in this code termed costs.

§ 860. Costs are allowed of course to the plaintifff, upon a judgment in his favor, in the following cases :

1. In an action for the recovery of real property, or when a
claim of title to real property arises on the pleadings, or is certified by the court to have come in question at the trial :

2. In an action to recover the possession of personal property:

3. In the actions of which, according to section 141, a justice’s
court has not jurisdiction :

4. In an action for the recovery of money, where the plaintifff
recovers fifty dollars or more. But in an action for assault, battery,
false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal
conversation, or seduction, if the plaintifff recover less than fifty dol lars damages, he can recover no more costs and charges than damages. And in an action to recover the possession of personal property, if the plaintifff recover less than fifty dollars damages, he
can recover no more costs and charges than damages, unless he
recover also property, the value of which with the damages amounts

to fifty dollars. Such valu emust be determined by‘ the jury, court,
or referee, by whom the action is tried. .

§ 861. When several actions are brought on one bond, undertaking, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument in
writing, or in any other case for the same cause of action, against
several parties who might have been joined as defendants in the
same action, no costs can be allowed to the plaintifff, in more than
one of such actions, which may be at his election, if the parties
proceeded against in the other actions were at the commencement

of the previous action, openly within this state; but the disbursements of the plaintifff may be allowed to him, as provided in section 867.

§ 862. Costs are allowed of course to the defendant upon a
judgment in his favor, in an action for the recovery of money,
where the plaintifff recovers less than fifty dollars, and also in

' the other actions mentioned in section 860.

§ 863. In other actions, costs may be allowed or not, and if allowed may be apportioned between the parties, onlthe same ‘or _

adverse sides, in the discretion of the couft.

When there are several defendants, not united in interest, and
making separate defenses by separate answers, and the plaintih‘
fails to recover judgment against all, the court may award costs

to such of the defendants as have judgment in their favor, or any .

of them. And in the following cases the costs of an appeal are
in the discretion of the court :
1. Where a new trial is ordered :
2. Where a judgment is modified. » :
§ 861. Costs can not be allowed to the plaintifff in an action
upon a judgment of a court of this state, between the same parties, unless such action was brought with previous leave of the
court for cause shown ; but this prohibition does not apply to an
action upon the judgment of a justice’s court, brought in another
county, or brought in the same county, in case of the summons
not having been served on all the defendants, or the death of a
party, or the death, resignation, incapacity toa ct or removal from
the county of the justice, or the loss of his docket.
§ 865. When allowed, costs are as follows: '
1. To the p1aintit'1“,for all proceedings before notice of trial
(including judgment when entered), '
Inan action arising on obligation for the recovery of money
only, seven dollars : in another action, twelve dollars ; for all subsequent proceedings before trial, seven dollars :
2. To the defendant, for all the proceedings" before notice of
h~ial,f1ve dollars ; for all subsequent proceedings before trial,

seven dollars:
3. For the trial of issues of law, if separateifrom’ the trial of

issues of fact, to the plaintiti',1ifteen dollars; to the defendant,
twelve dollars: ' ’ _
4. For the trial of the issues of ‘fact, if separate from thettrial
of the issues of law, to the plaintifff, fifteen dollars; to the defendant, twelve dollars: _
5. For the trial of the issues of fact and of law, when tried at
the same time, to_ the plaintifff, twenty dollars; to the defendant,

nfteen dollars : 6. T9 either party on appeal, excepting to the court of appeals

before argument, fifteen dollars‘; for argument, thirty dollars; but

this provision does not apply to appeals in the cases mentioned
in section . ‘ 0 _
7. To either party on appeal to the court of appeals; before

argument,twenty-five dollars ; for argument, fifty dollars:
8. To either party, for every circuit or term not exceeding

three, at which the cause necessarily remains on the calendar,
excluding that at which it is tried or heard, ten dollars.

In actions for the foreclosure of mortgages upon real property,
or for the partition of real property, the plaintiii‘ is also entitled
to the additional allowance of five per cent on the first five hundred dollars, and one per cent on all over that sum, upon the
price of the property sold, or the value of the property partitioned
such value” to be determined by the referees making the partition.
But such allowance can in no case exceed two hundred dollars.

§ 866. When the judgment is for the recovery of money, interest from the time of the verdict or report, until judgment be finally
entered, must be computed by the clerk, and'added therto.

§ 867. The clerk must insert 'in the entry of judgment, on the
application of the prevailing party, upon five days notice to the
other, except when the parties or their attorneys reside in the
same city or town, and then two days, the sum of the allowances
for costs, as above provided, and the necessary disbursements, in.’ cluding the fees of officers allowed by law, the fees of witnesses,

the necessary expenses of commissions, the compensation of referees, and the expense of printing the papers upon any appeal,
‘ which disbursements are in this code also termed charges. The

disbursements must be stated in detail, and verified by aii'1davit, which must be filed. \Whenever costs are allowed by this
code, the charges also are allowed, and when costs are not allow’ ed, the charges are not allowed, except where express provision

is made therefore. '
§ 868. When an application is made to a court or referees, to
postpone a trial, the payment to the adverse party of a sum not
exceeding ten dollars, besides the fees of witnesses, may be imposed, as the condition of granting the postponement. '

§ 869. Costs may be allowed on an original motion, or on appéal from an order, in the discretion of the court, not exceeding
ten dollars. When coats are ordered against a party, upon a motion, proceedings on his part may he stayed until payment thereof, and when irrelevant or redundant matter in a pleading is

stricken out, pursuant to section 648, the court may impose costs
on the party or his attorney,,not exceeding ten dollars.
§ 870. When costs are adjudged against an infant plaintiii‘, the

guardian, by whom he appeared in the action, is responsible for
them, and judgment therefore may be entered, against both the

guardian and infant.
§ 871. When, in an action for the recovery of money only, the
defendant alleges in his answer, that, before the commencement

of the action, he tendered to the plaintifff, the full amount to .

which he was entitled, and thereupon deposits in court for the
plaintifff, the amount so tendered, and the allegation be found
true, the plaintifff cannot recover costs, but must pay costs to the
defendant.

§ 872. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor, administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, costs may be recovered, as in an action by

and against a person prosecuting or defending in his own right,
but such costs must by the judgment be made chargeable only
upon the estate, fund, or party represented, unless the court direct the same to be paid by the plaintifff or defendant, personally,
for mismanagement or bad faith in the action or defense. But no

costs are recoverable in such action, if brought without leave of
the surrogate, against an executor or administrator within one

year after the death of the person whom he represents, nor after.

that time, unless it appear that the demand was tirst presented
to the executor administrator, verified by oath, and payment deminded.

§ 873. When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdiction in
a special proceeding, is brought before the supreme court for review, such proceeding is for all purposes of costs, to be deemed
an action at issue, on a question of law, from the time the same
is brought into_ the supreme court, and costs thereon may be
awarded and collected in such manner as the court may direct,’
Iccordint! to the nature of the case.

§ 874. In all civil ‘actions prosecuted in the name of the people
of this state, by an oihcer duly authorized for that purpose, the
P°0p1e are liable for costs in the same cases, and to the same extent, asprivate parties. If a private person be joined with the
People as plaintifff, he is liable in the first instance for the defenthat’: costs; which cannot be recovered of the people, till after

execution issued therefore against such private party and returned
unsatisfied. And when costs are awarded, and recoverable against
the people, payment thereof must be made by the comptroller,
upon the production of proper evidence thereof.

§ 875. In an action prosecuted in the name of the people of
this state for the recovery of money or property, or to establish a

right or claim, for the benefit of any county, city, town, village,
corporation or person, costs awarded against the plaintifff, must

by thejudgment be made a charge against the party for whose
benefit -the action was prosecuted, and not against the people.

§ 876. In an action in which the cause of action,after the commencement of the action,'by assignment, or in any other manner,

becomes the property of a person not a party to the action, and
the prosecution or defense is thereafter continued, such person is
liable for the costs, in the same manner as if he were a party, and
payment thereof may be enforced by order.

§ 877. Upon the settlement, before judgment, of any action
mentioned in section 860, no greater sum can be demanded from
the defendant as costs, than at the rates prescribed by section 865.

§ 878. At the commencement of the action, or within five days
thereafter, the plaintifff must in all cases file _an undertaking executed by a sufficient surety, for the payment of the costs that may

héwwartled against the plaintifff, not exceeding two hundred dollass. The sureties may be excepted to and must justify in the
same -manner as bail. ‘

TITLE XI.

ACTIONS IN PARTICULAR CASES.

CHAPTER I.

O
ACTIONS TO DETERMINE CONFLICTING CLAIMS TO REAL PROPERTY,‘

AND omen raovrsross nnuvrmc TO sorrows CONCERNING nmu.
Pnoramrr.

§ 879. An action may be brought by any person in possession,
by himself, or his tenant, of real property, against any person,
who claims an estate or interest therein, adverse to him, for the
purpose of determining such adverse claim, estate, or interest. .

§ 880. If the defendant, in such action, disclaim in his answer
any interest or estate in the property, or suffer judgment to be
tak¢n+ag.e1Inst.him IW-.it.h<m1: answer, the plaintifffcannot recover costs.

§ 881. In an action, for the recovery of dower before admea8urement,'or by a tenant in common, or joint tenant of real property, against a co~tenant, the plaintifff must show, in addition to
the evidence of his right, that the defendant either denied the
p1aintiif’s right, or did some act amounting to such denial.

§ 882. In an action for the recovery of specific real or personal
property, where the plaintifff shows a right to recover at the time
the action was commenced, but it appears that his right has terminated during the pendency of the action ,the verdict and judgment must be according to the fact, andthe plaintifff may recover
damages for withholding the property.

§ 883. Any person, against whom a judgment for the recovery
of specific real property is rendered may, within six months after
written notice of the judgment, upon payment of all costs and
damages recovered thereby, demand another trial, by notice in
writing to the adverse party, or to his attorney in the action, and

thereupon the action may be brought to trial by either party.
§ 884. If on a second trial, as provided in the last section,

judgment be to the same effect, as on the first, no further trial
can be had, unless the court, in its discretion, on motion by the
party as to whom the judgment last rendered is less favorable
than the first, order a third trial.

§ 885. The judgment given on a trial, to be had under the last
two sections, must be annexed‘ to the judgment roll of the former

trial, and the judgment last given, shall be the iinal determination
of the rights of the parties. If a prior judgment shall havebeen

executed, restitution must be ordered, as the last judgment may
determine the rights of the parties, and the same may be enforced

by execution.
§ 886. Damages for withholding the property recovered, can in

no case exceed the fair value of the property (exclusive of the
use of improvements, made by the defendant), for aeperiod not

exceeding six years; and when permanent improvements have
been made by a defendant, or those under whom he ‘claims, holding under color of title, adverselyto the claims of the plaintifff,

in good ‘faith, the value thereof must -be allowed as a‘ set e,n',:

ggainst the damages of the plaintiii‘, for theme of the property.
§ 887. The court, in which an action is pending for the recovery

of real property, may on motion, upon notice, by either party,
and for cause shown, grant an order, allowing to such party the

right to enter upon the property, and make survey and measurement thereof, for the purposes of the action.

§ 888. The order must describe the property, and a copy thereof
must be served on the owner, or occupant, and thereupon such
party may enter upon the property, with necessary surveyors
and assistants, and make such survey and measurements, but if
any unnecessary injury be done to the property, he is liable
therefore.

§ 889. A mortgage of real property is not to be deemed a conveyance, so as to enable the owner of the mortgage to recover
possession of the real property, without a foreclosure.

§ 890. The court may, by injunction, or cause shown, restrain
the party in possession, from doing any act to the injury of real
property, during the summary foreclosure of a mortgage thereon,

or. after a sale on execution, before a conveyance.
§ 891. When real property shall have been sold on execution,

‘ the purchaser thereof, or any person, who may have succeeded

to his interest, may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover

damages for injury to the property, by the tenant in possession,

after the sale, and before possessionis delivered under the conveyance.

§ 892. An action for the recovery of real property against a
person in possession, or in the receipt of the rents or profits thereof,
can not be prejudiced by any alienation, made by such person,
either before or after the commencement of the action; but in
such case, if the defendant have no property sufficient to satisfy
the damages recovered, for the withholding of possession, such
damages may be collected by action against the purchaser.

§ 893. When in casegof a lease of real property, and the failure
of the tenant to pay rent, the landlord has a subsisting right to
re-enter for such failure, he may bring an action to recover possession of the property; and such action is equivalent to a demand of the rent and a re-entry upon the property. But if at
anytime before the expiration of six months after possession
obtained: by the plaintifff, on a recovery in the action, the lessee,
or’ his successor in interest as to the whole or part of the property,
pay to the plaintifff, or bring into court, the amount of rent then

inarrear with interest, and the costs of the action, and perform

the other covenants on the part of the lessee,-he may be restored

to the possession and hold the property according to the terms of
the original lease.

CHAPTER II. -,

ACTIONS FOR THE FORECLOSURE 01-‘ MORTGAGES.

§ 894. In an action for the foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage of real property, or the satisfaction of a lien or encumbrance

upon property, real or personal, the court has power, by its judgment, to direct a sale of the property, or any part of it; the

application of the proceeds to the payment of the amount due on
the mortgage, lien, or encumbrance with costs; ‘and execution,
for the balance, against any party liable therefore, as principal,
surety, or otherwise.

§ 895. Real property adjudged to be sold, must be sold in the
county where it lies, by the sheriii‘ of the county, or by a‘ referee
appointed by the court for that purpose, and thereupon the sherif or referee must execute a conveyance to the purchaser, which

conveyance passes the title of the parties to the action. And upon _

the sale of property, real or personal, pursuant to a judgment,

the court may enforce the delivery of possession thereof to the
purchaser.

§ 896. When a debt is secured by mortgage of real or personal‘

property, or a lien or encumbrance thereon, separate actions respecting the debt and the security cannot be allowed, but the creditor must include in one action all his claims upon both. ‘

§ 897. If there be surplus money remaining after payment of
the amount mentioned in section-.894, the court may cause the
same to be paid to the person entitled to it,.and in the mean
time, may direct it to be deposited in court.

§ 898. If the debt,for which the mortgage, lien or encumbrance
is held, be not a_ll due, so soon as sufficient of the property has
been sold to pay the amount due, with costs, the sale must cease ;
and afterwards as often as more becomes due, for principal or interest, the court may, on' motion, order more to be sold. But if
the propertycannot be sold in portions, without injury to the parties, the whole may be ordered to be sold in the first instance,

and the entire debt and costs be paid, there being a rebate of interest, where such rebate is proper.

CHAPTER III .

ACTIONS non NUISANCE, WASTE, TRESPASS on mnum LANDS, AND
WILLFUL TRESPASS ox ormsa REAL PROPERTY.

§ 899. Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent, or
oifensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or
property, is a nuisance, and the subject of an action. Such action
may be brought by any person whose property is injuriously affected, or whose personal enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance;
and by the judgment, the nuisance may be enjoined or abated, as
well as damages recovered.

§ 900. If a guardian, tenant by the curtesy, in dower, for life
or years, joint tenant or tenant in common of real property, commit waste thereon, any person aggrieved by the waste, may bring
an action against him therefore, in which action, there may be

judgment for treble damages, forfeiture of the estate of the party
offending, and eviction from the property.

§ 901. Judgment of forfeiture and eviction can only be given,
in favor of the person entitled to the reversion, against the tenant in possession, when the injury to the estate in reversion is adjudged in the action, to be equal to the value of the tenant’s estate
or unexpired term, or to have been done in malice.

§ 902. Every person w ho cuts down,or carries off, any wood or underwood, tree or timber, or girdles or otherwise injures any tree,timber or shrub on the land of another person, or on the street or highway, in front of any persons’ house, village, or city lot, or cultivated
grounds, or on the commons, or public grounds, of any city or
town, or on the street or highway, in front thereof, without lawful authority, is liable to the owner of such land, or to such city
or toivn, for treble the amount of damages, which may be assessed
therefore, in a civil action, in any court having jurisdiction, except
as provided in the next section.

§ 903. If, upon the trial of such action, it appear, that the

trespass was casual or involuntary, or that the defendant had
probable cause to believe, that the land, on which the trespass

was committed, vvas his own, or that of the person in whose serrice, or by whose direction, the act was done, judgment must be
given for only the single damages assessed in the action.

§ 904. Nothing in the last two sections authorizes the recovery
of more than the just value of the timber, taken from uncultivated wood land, for the repair of a public highway or bridge upon
the land or adjoining it.

§ 905. If a person be put out of real property in a forcible manD91‘, without lawful authority, or, being so put out, be afterwards
kept out by force, recover damages therefore, judgment may be entered for three times the amount at which the actual damages
are assessed. ,

§ 906. In case of forcible entry or forcible detention, if a person claiming in good faith, under color of title, to be rightfully
inpossession, so put out or kept out, recover damages therefore,
judgment may be entered in his favor, for three times the amount,
at which the actual damages are assessed. .

§ 907. For trespass, by any person other‘ than an Indian, on
lands possessed by Indians, an action may be brought‘ in thename of the people of this State '

§ 908. Such action must be prosecuted by the district attorney
of the county where the lands are situated, or by an attorney tobe designated for that purpose, by the county judge.

§ 909. The damages recovered in such action, after defraying: ~

the expenses of the prosecution, must be distributed among the:
Indians occupying such lauds, according to their respective interests therein, to be determined by the county judge, on summary

application before him.
§ 910. Before such action can be commenced, security for costs:

mnst be given, satisfactory to the county judge, or to the super.
visor of the town where the lands are situated, by an undertaking’
in writing to pay to the defendant, the costs which may be adjudged against the plaintifff. I *

CHAPTER IV.

. ACTIONS FOR THE PARTITION OF REAL PROPERTY.

§ 911. When several persons hold, and are in possession of
real property, asjointtenants; or as tenants in common, in which

one or more of them have an estate of inheritance, or for life or
years, an action may be brought by one or more of such persons,
for a partition thereof, according to the respective rights of the

persons interested therein, and for a sale of such property, or a
part of it,-if it appear that a partition cannot be made, without

great prejudice to the owners.

§ 912. The summons must be addressed by name to all the
joint tenants, and tenants in common, who are known, and
generally to all persons unknown, having or claiming an interest
in the property.
§ 913. The interests of all persons in the property, whether
such persons be known or unknown, must be set forth in the

complaint specifically and particularly, as far as known to the .

plaintiff, and if any one or more of the parties, or the share or

quantity of interest of any of the parties, be unknown to the
plaintifff, or be uncertain or contingent, or the ownership of the
inheritance depend upon executory devise, or the remainder be a

-contingent remainder, so that such parties cannot be named, that
fact must be set forth in the complaint. ‘

§ 914. The plaintifff may, at his option, make creditors, having
.a specific or general lien upon the property, or upon any particular portion thereof, parties to the action.

§ 915. When the lien is on an undivided interest or estate of
-any of the parties, such lien, if a partition be made, is thenceforth a charge only on the share assigned to such party; but
‘such share must be tirst charged with its just proportion of the

costs of the partition, in preference to such lien.
§ 9l6. If a party havinga share or interest be unknown, or

either of the known parties reside out of the State or cannot be
found therein, and such fact be made to appear by affidavit, the
-summons may be served on such absent or unknown party, by

publication, directed by the court or judge, in the manner prescribed by sections 622 and 623. When publication is made, the

summons, as published, must be accompanied by a brief description of the property, which is the subject of the action. °

§ 917. The rights of the several parties, plaintiffs as well as
defendants, may be put in issue, tried and determined by such

action; and where a defendant fails to answer, or where a sale of

the premises is necessary, the ‘title'must be ascertained by proof

to the satisfaction of the court, before the judgment for partition
or sale is given. s
§ 918. If it be alleged in the complaint, and established by

evidence, to the satisfaction of the court, that the property or any
partof it, is so situated that partition cannot be made, without

great prejudice to the owners, the court may order a sale thereof,
and for that purpose may appoint one.or more referees. Otherwise, upon the requisite proofs being made, it must order a partition, according to the respective rights of the parties, as ascertained by the court, and appoint three referees therefore; and

must designate the portion to remain undivided, for the owners,
whose interests remain unknown or not ascertained.

§ 919. In making the partition, referees must divide the property, and allot the several portions thereof to the respective
parties, quality and quantity relatively considered, according to
the respective rights of the parties, as determined by the court,
designating the several portions by proper landmarks, and may
employ a surveyor, with the necessary assistants, to aid them
therein. .
§ 920. The referees must make report of their proceedings,‘
specifying therein the manner of executing their trust, describing
the property divided, and the shares allotted to each party, with
a particular description of each share. '
§ 921. The court may confirm or set aside the report, and if
necessary, appoint new referees. Upon the report being condrmed, judgment must be rendered, that such partition be eti‘ectnal forever, which judgment is binding and conclusive:

1 . On all the parties named therein, and their legal represent-W
atives, who have at the time any interest in the property divided,
as owners in fee, or as tenants for years, or as entitled to the reversion, remainder or inheritance of such property, after the
termination of a particular estate therein: or who, by any contingency, may be entitled to a beneiicial interest in the property,
or who have an interest in an individual share thereof,as tenants

for years, for life, by the curtesy, or in dower :

2. On all persons interested in the property, who may be unknown, to whom notice shall have been given of the application

for partition by the publication directed by section 916 : and

3. On all other persons claiming from such parties or persons,
or either of them.

§ 922. But such judgment and partition cannot affect tenants,
or persons having claims as tenants, in dower, by the curtesy or
for life, to the whole of the property, which is the subject of the
partition; nor can such judgment and partition preclude any
person, except such as are specified in the last section, from claiming title to the property ‘in question, or from controverting the title of the parties between whom the partition is made.

§ 923. The expenses of the referees, including those of a surveyor and his assistants,when employed, must be ascertained and
allowed by the court ; and. the amount thereof, together with the
fees allowed by law to the referees, must be paid by the plaintifff,
and may be allowed as part of the charges.

§ 924. If the referees report to the court, that the property, of
which partition shall have been directed, or any distinct portion
thereof, is so situated, that a partition thereof cannot be made,
without great prejudice to the owners; and the court is satislied
that such report is correct, it may thereupon, by an order, direct

the referees to sell the property or portion so situated.

§ 925. When a part of the property only is ordered to be sold,
if there be an estate by the curtesy,iu dower, or for life, or years,
in an undivided share of the property, the whole of such estate
may be set oil‘ in any part of the property not ordered to be sold.

§ 926. Before the making of an order for sale, where the
-creditors having specific liens have not been made parties, the
court on the motion of either party must direct the plaintiff to
amend his complaint, if necessary, by making every person having a specific lien on the undivided interest or estate of any of ,
the parties by mortgage, devise or otherwise, a party to the action.

§ 927. The plaintifff must produce to the court the certificate

of the clerk of the county where the property is situated, showing

‘whether there are any general. liens by judgment upon the property, or any part thereof.
§ 928. Unless it be made to appear to the court, by the certificate of the clerk, pursuant to the last section, that there are outstanding no general liens on the property, or on any share or parcel thereof, the conrt must order a reference to ascertain them.

§ 929. If it appear by the certificate that there are outstanding
of record such general liens, the court must appoint a referee to
ascertain whether such liens have been paid,or if not paid, what
amount remains due or secured by them respectively, and the
order of priority in which they are entitled to be paid out of the
property.

§ 930. The plaintifff must cause a notice to be served, at least ten
days before the time for appearance, on each person having such

general lien, to appear before the referee at a specified time and
place, to make proof by his own affidavit or otherwise, of the

true amount due, or to become due, contingently or absolutely, on
his judgment. ' T

§ 931. The referee must receive the evidence, and report the
namesof the creditors whose liens are established, the amounts
thereof, and their priority respectively, and if such liens are contingent he must specify them. He must attach to his report the
proof of service of the notices, and the affidavits and copies of
other evidence before him. '

§ 932. Any creditor having a lien, and being dissatisfied with
the report of the referee, may move the court to correct it, at any

time before distribution of the proceeds of sale, on ten days’ notice to the plaintifff and the other persons in whose favorliens are

reported, and thereupon the court may correct the report on the
evidence reported, or if necessary, may order a new reference of
the whole or of any part of the matter. When confirmed, the report is conclusive of the rights of the several creditors on whom
notice was served.
§ 933. The proceeds of the sale of the incumbered property,
must be applied under the direction of the court, as follows :
1. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the action :
2. To pay the costs of the reference: ' '
3. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens in their
order of priority, by payment of the sums‘ due and to become due,
the amount remaining due to be verified by aiiidavit at the time.
of payment: A
4. The residue, among the owners of the property__g_old, according to their respective shares therein. -. ,
§ 934. The proceedings to ascertain the amount of encumbrances, and to determine their priority as above provided, or
those herein authorized to determine the rights of parties, to funds
paid into court, must not delay the sale, nor affect ‘any other
party, whose rights are not involved in such proceedings. 0
§ 935. The proceeds of sale, and the securities taken by the
referees, or any part thereof, may be distributed by them to the
persons entitled thereto, whenever the. court so directs. But in
case no direction be given, all such proceeds and securities must

be paid into court, or deposited as required by law’, or directed by
the court.'

§ 936. When the proceeds of sales of any shares or parcels, belonging to persons, who have become parties to the action, and

who are known, are paid into court, the action may be continued
as between such parties, for the determination of their respective
claims thereto, which must be ascertained and adjudged by the
court. Further testimony may be taken, in court, or by a referee, at the discretion of the court, and the court may, if necessary, require such parties to present the facts or law in controversy, by pleadings, as in an original action. .

§ 937. All sales of real property, made by referees under this chapter, must be made by public auction to the highest bidder,
upon notice, published in the manner required for the sale of real

property on execution. The notice‘ must state the terms of sale,
and if the property or any part of it is to be sold, subject to a.
prior estate, charge or specitic lien, that must be stated in the notice.

§ 938. The court must, in the order for sale, direct the terms
of credit Which may be allowed, for the purchase money, of any
portion of the premises of which it may direct a sale on credit,
and for that portion of which the purchase money is required, by

the provisions herein after contained, to be invested for the benefit
of unknown owners, infants, parties out’ of the state, or tenants in

dower, or by the curtesy or for life or years, when, the estate of
such tenants is ordered to be sold.

§ 939. The referees may take separate mortgages and other securities, for the whole or convenient portions of the purchase
money, ofsuch parts of the property as are directed by the court
to be sold on credit, in the name of the clerk of the court and

A

h'B successors in oiiice, and for the shares of any known owner of‘
full age, in the name of such owner.

§ 940. When the estate of a tenant in dower, or by the curtesy,
or for life or years, in the whole or any part of the property in
question, has been admitted by the parties, or ascertained by the
court, to be existing at the time of the orderfor sale, and the person entitled to such estate, has been made a party to the action,
such estate may‘be first set off out of any part of the property,
and a sale made of such parcel, subject to ‘the prior unsold estate
of such tenant therein. But if in the judgment of the court, a
due regard to the interests all the parties, require that such estate
be also sold, the sale may be so ordered‘.

§ 941. If a sale of the property, including such estate, be ordered, the estate and interest of every such tenant or person passes
thereby; and the purchaser, his heirs and assigns, shall hold the

property discharged from all claims, by virtue of such estate or
interest, whether the same be to the individual share ‘of a joint’
tenant, or tenant in common, or to the whole or any part of the
property sold. A ~. .- . ‘

§ 942. The persons entitled to such estate in dower, tenancy

by the curtesy, or tenancy for life and years, whose estate shall
have been sold, are entitled to receive such sum in gross, as may
deemed, upon principles of law applicable to annuities, a, reasonable satisfaction for such estate, and which the person so entitled
may consent to accept instead thereof, by an instrument under
seal, duly acknowledged or proved, in the same manner as deeds
for the purpose of record.

§ 943. If such consent be not given, at or before the report of sale,
the court must ascertain and determlne what proportion of the
proceeds of the sale, after deducting expenses, will be a just and
reasonable sum to be invested, for the benefit of the person ,entitled to such estate, in dower, by the curtesy, or for life; and
must order the same to be deposited in court for that purpose.

§ 944. The proportion of the proceeds of ‘the sale to be invested
must be ascertained and determined in the several cases as follows :

1. If an estate in dower be included in the order of sale, its

proportion must be one—third of the proceeds of the sale of the ,

property, or of the sale of the individual share in such property,
upon which the claim of dower existed:

2. If an estate by .the curtesy, or other estate for life or years, ,
be included in the order of sale, its proportion must be the whole

proceeds of the sale of the property, or of the sale of the undivided share thereof, in which such estate may be:
And in all cases, the proportion of the expenses of proceedings ‘
must be deducted from the proceeds of the sale. 9
§ 945. If the persons entitled to such estate in dower, by the
curtesy, or for life or years, be unknown, the court must provide
for the protection of their rights in the same manner, as far as
may be, if they were known and had appeared.
§ 946. In all cases of sales in partition, when it appears that a_
married woman has an inchoate right of dower in any of the ‘property divided or sold, or that any person has a vested or contingent future right or estate‘ therein, th ecourt must ascertain and
settle the proportional value of such inchoate, contingent, or vested right or estate,‘according to the principles of law applicable
to annuities and survivorships, and must direct such proportion
of the proceeds of the sale to be invested, secured, or paid over,
in such manner, as to protect the rights and interests of the
parties.
§ 947. A married woman may release such right, interest or
estate, to her husband, and acknowledge the same in the manner
required by law, in respect to the acknowledgment of deeds by
married women, before any oilicer authorized ‘to take acknowledgment of deeds, or if executed out of this state, before any
oiiicer residing in the state, district or county, where the acknowledgment is made, whc is authorized to take the acknowledgment of deeds, to be recorded in this state. Upon the release,
the share of the proceeds of the sale, arising from her contingent
interest, must be paid to her husband, and the release, or the
payment, investment, or’ otherwise securing of‘, a share of the proceeds of a sale, shall be a bar against such right, estate, or claim.

§ 948. The terms of the sale must be made known at the time 5
and if the premises consist of distinct farms, or lots, they must

be sold, separately.
§ 949. Neither of the referees, nor any person for the benefit of

either ofthem, can be interested in the purchase; nor can a

guardian of an infant party be interested in the purchase of any

real property, being the subject of the action, except for _the bentit of the infant. All sales contrary to the provisions of this section are void. _ ,

§ 950. After completing the sale, the referees must report the
same to the court, with a description of the different parcels of
land sold to each purchaser, the name of the purchaser, the price
paid or secured, the terms and conditions of the sale, and the securities if any taken. ' The report must be filed in the ofiieeof
the clerk of the county, where the property is situated.

§ 951. If the sale be confirmed by the court, an order must be
entered, directing the referees to execute conveyances and take
securities pursuant to such sale ;. which they are hereby authorized to do. Such order may also give directions to them respect-'
ing the disposition of the proceeds of the sale.

§ 952. When a party entitled toga share of the property, or an
encumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of the sale, becomes a purchaser, the referees may take his receipt for so much
of the proceeds of the saleas belongs to him, and must also pay

over to the plaintifff or his attorney, and take his receipt for the
costs and charges of the action.

§ 953. The conveyances must be recorded in the county, where

the premises are situated, and shall be a bar against all persons
interested in the property in any way, who shall have been named as parties in the action, and against all such parties and persons as were unknown, if the summons have been served as is

directed by section 916, and against all persons claiming from
them or either of them. i

§ 954. The conveyances shall also be a bar against all persons
having specific or general liens or encumbrances by judgment, on
any undivided share or interest in the premises sold, who shall

have been served with notice as prescribed by section 930 ; and
also against all persons having specific liens on any undivided

share or interest therein, who shall _have been made parties to‘

the action. But no creditor having such specific lien can be effected by the sale or conveyance unless he has been made party.

§ 955. When there are proceeds of sale, belonging to an unknown owner, or to a person without the State, who has no legal
;representative within it, or when there are proceeds arising from

the sale_ of an estate, subject to the prior estate of a tenantin

dower, or by the curtesy, or tenant for life, or years, which are
paid into court, or deposited with an oilicer by order of the court,

the same must be invested in securities on interest, for the benefit
of the persons entitled thereto.
§ 956. When security for the proceeds of sale is taken, or
when an investment of any such proceeds is made, it must be done,
except as herein otherwise provided, in the name of the clerk of the
county, where the papers are filed, and his successors in office,
who shall hold the same for the use and benefit of the parties
interested,’ subject to the order of the court.

§ 957. When security is taken by the referees on ‘a sale, and
the parties interested in such security, by an instrument in writing under their hands, delivered to the referees, agree upon the
shares and proportions to which they are respectively entitled
or ‘when such shares and proportions have been previously adjudged by the court, such securities must be taken in the names
of, and payable to, ' the parties respectively entitled thereto, and

must be delivered to such parties upon their receipt therefore.
Such agreement and receipt must be returned and filed with the
clerk.

§ 958. The clerk, in whose name a security is taken, or by
whom an investment is made, and his successors in office must

receive the interest and principal, as it becomes due, and apply
arid invest the same, as the court may direct, and must file in
his oilice all securities taken, and keep anaccount in a book provided and kept for that purpose in the clerk’s oiiice, free for inspection by all persons, of investments, and monies received by
him thereon, and the disposition thereof. _

§ 959. When it appears that partition cannot be made equal
between -the parties, according to their respective rights, without prejudice to the rights and interests of some of them, the
the court may adjudge compensation to be made, by one party to
another for equality of partition. But such compensation cannot be required to be made to others, by owners unknown, nor
by infants, unless, in the case of an infant, it appear that he has
personal property sufficient for that purpose, and that his interest will be promoted thereby.

§ 960. When the share of an infant is sold, the proceeds of the
‘sale may be paid by the referees making the sale, to his general
guardian, or to the special guardian appointed for him in the
action, if such general or special guardian, before the payment of
such share into court, shall have given the security required by section 543. ‘ ,
§ 961. The committee who may be entitled to the custody
and management of the estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, whose interest in real property shall have been sold, may receive, in behalf of such- person, his share of the proceeds of such real property, from the referees, if the committee, before the money is

paid into court, shall have executed, with suiiicient sureties an
undertaking, approved'by a judge of the court, or if the action
be in the supreme court, by a county judge, that he will faithfully discharge the trust reposed in him, and will render a true
and just account to the person entitled, or to his legal representative. ' . ’
§ 962. The general guardian of an infant, and the committee
entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged incapable of conducting '

his own affairs, who is entitled to real estate held in joint tanancy,
or in common, or in any other manner, to authorize his being made
party to an action for the partition thereof, may consent to a partition without action, and agree upon the share to be set'off
to such iniant, or other person entitled, and may excute a release
in his behalf, to the owners of the shares of the parts to which
they may be respectfully entitled, upon an order of the court.

§ 963. The people of this state may be made a party to an
action, for the sale orppartition of real property, in which case
the summons and complaint must be served upon the attorney
general, who must appear on behalf the people.

§ 964. The costs of partition, including fees or referees and _

other disbursements, must be paid by the parties respectively titled to share the lands divided, in proportion to their respective interests therein, and may be included and specified in the
judgment. In that case, they are alien on the seugral shares,
and the judgment may be e,nfoJ.'£>e‘d. by execution aga1nst_the parties separately. Where, however, a litigation arises between‘

some of the parties only, the court may require the expense ofsuch litigation" to be paid by the parties thereto, or any of them.

CHAPTER v. xcrross RESPECTING coarona-rxons.
§ 965. This chapter embraces all corporations, including in
such‘ designation all associations having any corporate rights,
whether created by special acts of legislation or under general
laws, except that no part of the chapter other than the next section extends to a municipal or religious corporation, or to a corporation for a public library, a cemetery, an academy, or a society for literary or charitable purposes, or for the encouragement of the fine arts, unless such corporation has, by its charter
or the law of its organization, shares or stock, from which, in
some contingency, a dividend may be made.

§ 966. A foreign corporation cannot maintain an action in this
State upon an obligation or liability arising out of, or in consideration of an act which is contrary to the law or policy of this
State, or which is -thereby forbidden, in respect to corporations or
associations therein, whose general business is similar to that of
such foreign corporation.

§ 967. When judgment is rendered against a bank, or banking
association, for any bill or other contract, for the absolute payment of money, payment of which has been refused, on presentment at the bank or place of business of the defendant, the
plaintifff may recover interest at the rate of ten per cent a year,

from the time of such refusal, unless in the act of incorporation
a diiferent rate of interest or measure of damages has been prescribed.

§ 968. A corporation may be restrained by injunction, provisional or final, from exercising any function or doing any act not
allowed by law. Such injunction may be granted upon the application of the attorney general or other oilicer authorized by
statute, on satisfactory evidence that the corporation has usurped,

exercised, or claimed a franchise, privilege, or other corporate
right not authorized by law, or has done or suffered some other

act by which its corporate existence or rights have become forfeited, or may, by authority of law, be terminated.

§ 969. The supreme court has jurisdiction .over all corporations,

and the directors, managers, trustees and other officers thereof, ‘ ’

1. To compel an officer to account for his official conduct in
the management and disposition of its business or property:

2. To suspend an officer from exercising his functions when it
appears that he has abused his trust:

3. To compel the payment or delivery, by an officer to such
corporation, or to its creditors, of any money or property of such
corporation, or the avails thereof, in his hands, or pay the value
of, or to deliver over any property he may have misapplied, or
wasted, or acquired to himself, or witheld, in violation of his duty:

4. To remove an officer from his office on proof of gross misconduct:

5. To direct a new election to be held, to supply a vacancy,
occasioned by such removal or otherwise:
6. In case such vacancy cannot be filled by the corporation, then

to report the facts to the governor, who is hereby authorized to-fill it:
7. To set aside alienations of property made by an officer contrary to the provisions of law, or for purposes foreign to the
business of the corporation, in cases where it may be done, without injustice to the purchaser or holder: 8. To prevent the improper alienation or disposition of property, where there is reason to apprehend it will be made.

But this jurisdiction does not deprive any corporate body, or
public officer of visitatorial power over any corporation.

§ 970. The jurisdiction conferred by the last section can only

be exercised on the application of an authorized public officer, or
of a creditor or stockholder, and the proceedings must be by

action in all proper cases; in other cases by motion.

§ 971. Whenever the affairs of a corporation are closed by the
supreme court (except on a judgment obtained by a creditor for
the satisfaction of a debt), the creditors are entitled to be paid
ratably in proportion to the amount of their respective demands
as ascertained under the direction of the court, except that, in
case of the insolvency of a bank or banking association, the billholders thereof are entitled to preference in payment over other
creditors.

§ 972. A corporation may be adjudged to have forfeited its corporatc rights, in either of  following cases: '

1. When-it has for one year neglected to pay its notes, or other
evidences of debt, or has, for that period, suspended its ordinary
and lawful business: 2. When, having banking powers, or authority to make loans
on pledges or deposits, or to make insurance, it violates any of
the provisions of the act under which it is incorporated,or of any
-other law.

§ 973. Any corporation mentioned in the last section, may be
restrained by injunction from the further exercise or its corporate
rights, and from receiving, paying, transferring, or delivering any

;money or other property, until the court otherwise order; and in

that case, a receiver of the corporate property may be appointed.
Such injunction ‘may be granted in an action brought by the attorney general in behalf of the state, to close the business of the
corporation, or by a creditor "or stockholder in an action to have
such forfeiture adjudged. .

§ 974. If the action be brought by a creditor of a corporation
whose directors, officers or stockholders are, by law, personally
liable for its debts, either absolutely or in any contingency,’ they
may be made parties to the action, either at its commencement or

subsequently, for the purpose of enforcing such liability.

§ 975. When a judgment has been rendered in such action,
whether brought by the attorney general, or by a stockholder or
creditor, and the directors, oiiicers or stockholders are personably
liable for the debts,and have not been made parties, any creditor

may commence an action founded upon such judgment, to enforce
the liability ; and in such action, the former judgment is conclusive evidence of the matters therein adjudged.

§ 976. Whenever an execution, issued on a judgment against a.

corporation, is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, by the
sheriff of the county where the principal oilice or place of business of the corporation is situated, and whenever a corporation is
adjudged to have forfeited its corporate rights, the court must
cause its affairs to beclosed, its debts collected, its property con?
verted into money, and its creditors paid in proportion to the
‘amount of their respective debts, in the order provided in the
case of a voluntary dissolution of a corporation, except that the
bill holders of an insolvent bank or banking association, must. be
referred, as provid) ed in section 971.

§ 977. When the property of the corporation is insufiicient to

discharge its debts, the court may compel each stockholder to pay '

any amount that may remain unpaid, on the shares of stock held‘
by him, or so much thereof, as is necessary to satisfy the debts,
and when the officers or stockholders are personally liable for the
debts, and the property of the corporation together with the
amount unpaid on the stock is insuiiicient to discharge its debts
the court may compel contribution from the officers or stockholders, who may  liable to satisfy the balance of the debts, from
each according to his. liability.

§ 978. In any proceeding, pursuant to this chapter, to close the
afairs of a corporation, the court may, on application of a‘ stockholder, officer _or creditor, restrain further proceedings by any
creditor, in an action against the corporation, so far as may be
proper, in order to prevent the waste of the funds by unnecessary

litigation; and may by a notice, served or published as the court
may direct, require all creditors to present and prove their claims,

or become parties to the action, within a reasonable time, or be preeluded from the benefit of any distribution, which may be made
before such claim is proved. .

§ 979. An action against a corporation, created by or under the
laws of any other state, government or country, and having pro—,
party in this state, or an agency established therein, may be
brought in the supreme court, the superior court of the city of
New-York, or the court of common pleas of the city of N ew-York
in the following cases: _

1. By a resident of this state for any cause of action:

2. By a plaintifff not a resident of this state, when the contract,
on which the action is brought, was made or delivered in this

state, or when any other cause of action has arisen, or the subject
of the action is situated within this state. '

CHAPTER VI .

actions at on summer Exncuroas, ADMINISTBATOBS, uzca-rams,
main: ‘or nnvrsus.

§ 980. A cause of action arising out of an injury to the person,
dies, with the person of either party, except as provided in section 928.

§ 981. All other causes of action, by one against another,
whether arising on contract or not, survive to the personal representatives of the former and against the personal representatives of the latter. Therefore the executors or administrators

may maintain the action against the party, against whom the cause
of action accrued, or after his death against his representatives.
§ 982. When the death of one is caused by the wrongful act or

omission of another, the personal representatives of the former
may maintain an action therefore against the latter, if the former
might have maintained an action, had he lived, against the latter,

for an injury caused by the same act or omission. But the action .

must be commenced within two years after the act or omission
by which the death was caused; the damages thereon cannot exceed tive thousand dollars; and the amount recovered is to be for
the exclusive benefit of the widow and next of kin, to be distributed to them in the same proportions as the personal property
of a deceased person. \

§ 983. In action against several executors or administrators,
they are all considered as one person representing their testator
or intestate, and judgment may be taken, and execution issued
against all who are named as defendants in the summons, although it be servcclonly on part of them, in the same manner as '

if served on all, except as provided in the next section.
§ 981. When a judgment is taken againstgan administrator or
executor upon failure to answer, it is not to be deemed evidence

of assets in his hands, unless it appear that the complaint alleged
assets, and was personally served on him.

§ 985. The time which shall have elapsed between the death
of a person, and the granting of letters testamentary or of administration on his estate, not exceeding six months, and the period
of six-months after the granting of such letters, are not to be

deemed any-part of the time limited for the commencement of
actions by executors or administrators.

§ 986. An executor of an executor has no authority as such to
commence or maintain an action or proceeding relating to the

property of the testator of the first executor, or to take any
charge or control thereof. '

§ 987. The real property, which belonged to a deceased person,
is not bound, or in any wayaffected, by a judgment against his
executors or administrators, nor liable to be sold, by virtue of an
execution issued upon such judgment.

§ 988. In an action against executors or administrators, in
which the fact of their having administered the estate of their
testator or intestate, or any part thereof, comes in issue, and the
inventory of the property of the deceased, filed by them is given
in evidence, the same may be repelled by evidence:

1. That any property has been omitted in such inventory, or
was not returned therein at its full value: ’

2. That such property has perished or been lost, without the
fault of such executors or administrators; or that it has been
fairly sold by them at private or public sale, at a less price than
the value so returned; or that, since the return of the inventory,
such property has deteriorated or increased in value. In such
action, the defendants cannot be charged for any things in action,
specified in their inventory, unless it appear that they have been
wllected, or might with due diligence, have been collected.

§ 989. No person is liable to an action as executor of his own
wrong, for having taken, received, or interfered with, the property
of a deceased person; but is responsible to the executors, or general or special administrators, of such deceased person, for the
value of all property so taken or received, and for all damages,
caused by his acts, to the estate of the deceased. ‘.

§ 990. The next of kin of a deceased person are liable to
action by a creditor of the estate, to recover the distributive
shares, received out of such estate, or so much thereof, as may be

necessary to satisfy his debt. The action may be against all the‘

next of kin jointly, or against any one or more of them severally.

§ 991. In such action, the plaintifff may recover the value of
all the assets received by all the defendants in the action, if necessary to satisfy his demand; and the amount of the recovery
must be apportioned among the defendants, in proportion to the
value of the assets received by each; and no allowance or deduction can be made from such amount, on account of their being
other relatives to whom assets have also been delivered.

§ 992. Any one of the next of kin, against whom a recovery
is had pursuant to the last action, may maintain an action against

All the other relatives of the testator, to whom any such assets
have been paid, jointly, or against any of them separately, for a
just and equal contribution, and may recover of each defendant
such an amount as shall be in the same proportion to the whole
sum collected of the plaintifff, as the value of the assets delivered
to such defendant bore to the value of all the assets delivered to
all the relatives of the deceased. ‘

§ 993. Legatees are liable to an action by a creditor of the /

testator to recover the value of any legacy received by them.
The action may be brought against all or only one of the legatees.
In such action the plaintifff cannot recover unless he shows:

1. That no assets were delivered by the executor or administrator of the deceased,ito his next of kin : or

2. That the value of such assets has been recovered by some
other creditor: or

3. That such assets are not suiiicient to satisfy the demand of
the plaintifff: .
L And in the last case, he can recover only the deficiency. The
whole amount which the plaintifff can recover, must be apportioned among all the legatees of the testator, in proportion to the
amounts of their legacies respectively, and his proportion can
only be recovered of each legatee. 

§ 994. If an action be brought against several next of kin of
jointly, or against ‘several legatees jointly, for assets delivered
to them, and a recovery be had against them‘, the costs of such
action must be apportioned among the several defendants, in proportion to the amount of the debt or damages recovered against
each of them.

§ 995. In case of a judgment against several next of kin of a
testator, or against several legatees, the payment or satisfaction
of the amount recovered against any one of the defendants, discharges such defendant, and exonerates him and his property from
the judgm.ent- ” '

§ 996. Heirs .and devisees are liable to an action by a creditor
of a deceased person, to recover the debt, to the extent of the
value of any real property inherited by, or devised to, them. If

Such action be against the heirs, all the heirs who may be liable
rnnst be made parties to the action.

§ 997. But the heirs are not liable for the debt, unless it
appear that the personal assets of the deceased were not sufficient
to discharge it, or‘ that after due proceedings before the proper

. surrcgate’s court, the creditor has been unable to collect the debt

from the personal representatives of the deceased, or from his
nex_t of kin or legatees. If the personal assets were sufficient to

pay a part of the debt, or in case a part, thereof shall have been
collected, as mentioned, in the last section, the heirs of such

deceased person are liable for the residue.

§ 998. But the last section does not affect the liability of heirs
for a debt of their ancestor, where such debt was, by his will‘
expressly charged exclusively on the real property descended to
such heirs, or where such debt is by the will expressly directed
to be paid out of the real property descended, before resorting to
the personal property. 

§ 999. In cases where the next of kin, legatees, heirs and
devisees are liable for the debts of their ancestors, as herein provided, they must give preference in the payment of the same,
and are liable therefore, in the following order:

1. Debts entitled to a preference under the laws of the United
States:

2. Judgments against the ancestor or testator, according to the
priority thereof respectively:

3. Recognizances, bonds, sealed instruments, notes, bills and
unliquidated demands and accounts. '

§ 1000. No preference can be given by any next of kin, legatee,
heir or devisee, to one debt over another of the same blass, except
one specified in the second subdivision of the last section; nor is
a debt, due and payable, entitled to a preference over a debt not
due; nor does the commencement of an action against any next
of kin, legatee, heir or devisee, for the recovery of a debt, entitle
it to a preference over others of the samevclass.

§ 1001. The next of kin, tlcgatees, heirs and devisees, may
show that there are debts of a prior class unsatisfied; or that

there are unpaid debts of the same class with that on which the
action is brought; and if it appear, that the value of the personal

property delivered to them, or of the real estate descended or
devised to them, does not exceed the debts of a prior class,
judgment must be rendered in their favor. i

§ 1002. If the personal property delivered to such next of kin
or legatees, or if the real estate descended or devised to such
heirs and devisees, exceed the amount 'of debts which are entitled

to a preference over the debt for which the action is brought,
judgment must be rendered against them only for such a sum as

shall be a just proportion to the other debts, of the same class

with that on which the action is brought.

§ 1003. If a debt of a class prior to that on which the action
is brought, or of the same class, shall have been paid by any next
of kin, legatees, heirs or devisees, they may prove such payment,
and the amount of the debts so paid must be estimated in ascertaining the amount to be recovered, in the same manner as if

such debts were outstanding and unpaid, as prescribed in" the last
two sections. . .

§ 1004. If it appear that the real property so descended-, was
not aliened by the heir, at the time of the commencement of the

action, 'of if the heir confess the claim, and show what real property has descended to him, the court must order that the debt of

the plaintifff, or the proportion thereof which he is entitled to
recover, be levied of the real property so descended, and not

otherwise; and every judgment rendered in such action has preference, as alien on the real property descended, to any judgment obtained against such heir personally, for a debt or demand
in his own right.

§ 1005. When it appears, in the action, that before the mmmencement thereof, the heir has aliened the real property descended  him, or any part thereof, he shall be personally liable

for the value of the property so aliened, and judgment may be
rendered therefore and execution awarded, as in actions for his

own debts. But no real property aliened in good faith by an
heir, before action commenced against him, is liable to execution,
or in any manner affected by a judgment against him.

§ 1006. In actions brought against several heirs jointly, or

several devisees jointly, the amount, which the plaintifff recovers,
must be apportioned, among all the heirs of the ancestor, or among

all the devisees of the tcstator, in proportion to the value of the

real property descended or devised, and such proportion only can
be recovered of each heir or legatee.'

§ 1007. Devisees made liable, by the foregoing provisions of ,
this chapter, to the creditors of their testator, are not so liable,
unless it appear that his personal assets and the real property of
the testator descended to his heirs were insufficient to discharge
the debt; orunless it appear, that after due proceedings before
the surrogate, the creditor has been unable to recover the debt,
or any part thereof, from the personal representatives of the
testator, or from his next of kin or legatees, or from his heirs.

§ 1008. In either of the cases specified in the last section, the
amount'of the deficiency of the personal assets, and of the real
property descended, to satisfy the debt of the plaintifff, and the

amount which such plaintifff may have failed to recover from the
personal representatives of the testatpr, his next of kin, legatees

and heirs, may be recovered of the devisees of such testator,_to'
the extent of the real property devised to them respectively.

§ 1009. But the last two sections do not affect the liability of
devisees, for a debt of their testator, where such debt was, by his
will, expressly charged exclusively upon the real property devised,
or by the terms of the will made payable exclusively by such ,devisee, or made payable out of the real property devised, before
resorting to the personal property or to any other real property
descended or devised. ‘ -'

§ 1010. The provisions of this chapter, with regard to heirs,

and to proceedings by and against them, and to judgments and
executions against them, are applicable to actions and proceedings

against devisees; and they must, in like manner, be sued jointly.

§ 1011. In cases where, by the provisions of any statute, a
child born after the making of a will, is entitled to succeed to a
portion of the testator’s real and personal property, such child
shall have the same rights and remedies to compel a distribution
of the personal property and a partition of the real property, as are
provided for next of kin and for heirs; and shall, in all respects,
be liable, in the same manner and to the same extent, to the
creditors of his ancestor, in respect to the personal property
delivered to him, and the real property descended to him, as are
herein prescribedin relation to next of kin and heirs; and such

child may recover of the legatees and devisees, who may have
received or taken any real or personal property of the testator,
the share or portion thereof to which he may be entitled.

§ 1012. The provisions of the last two sections relative to a
child, born after the making of a will, apply equally tmevery
person, who being a witness to a will, is entitled, by the provisions

of any statute, to recover a portion of the real or personal property of. the testator, from the legatees‘ and devisees named in such
will.

CHAPTER VII.

ACTIONS 0]‘ OFFICIAL SECURITIES, AND FOR FINES AND FOR‘
FEITURES.

§ 1013. The official bond, or other security, of a public oilicer,
to the people of this State, whether with or without sureties, is to
be construed as security to ‘the people of the state, as a government, and also to all persons severally, for the official delinquencies, against which it is intended to provide. If it be to a county,
town, city, village or other municipal body, it is in like manner,
to be construed as security severally to all persons intended to be

seemed, as well. as to the body politic named therein.

§ 1014. When a public oiiicer, by official misconduct or neglect of duty, forfeits his official bond, or renders his sureties liable upon an official security, any person injured thereby, or who

is, by law, entitled to the benefit of the security, may bring an

action thereon, in his own name, against the officer and his sureties, to recover the amount to which he may be entitled, by reason oi the delinquency.

§ 1015. Before an action can be brought by a plaintifff, other
than the people, or body politic named in the security, leave must
be obtained of the court or a judge thereof, or a county judge,
within the district or county where the action is triable; and leave
can onlyqbe granted, on a production of the copy of the bond, and
an affidavit showing the delinquency ; and if the delinquency be
such, as that if established on the trial, it would entitle the party applying to recover in the action, leave must be granted.

§ 1016. A judgment in favor of a party for one delinquency,
does not preclude the same, or another party, from an action on
the same security, for another delinquency.

§ 1017. If it appear in action against a surety, on an official security, that he has already been obliged, by reason of prior recoveries against him on the same, to pay amounts, which in the
aggregate, are equal to the extent of his undertaking, or
that, by reason of the insolvency of his principal, he will be
obliged to pay to that extent on judgments already recovered
against the surety, he shall be discharged. And the recovery
against a surety must, in allcases, be limited by the amount of
his undertaking.

§ 1018. Upon the execution issued on a judgment, recovered
upon the oihcial security of a public officer against him and a su- '
rety, there must be endorsed a direction to the oiiicer, to whom
the execution is delivered, to collect the same out of the property of the principal, if suiiicient can be found, and if not, then to
collect it out of the property of the surety. . ~

§ 1019. If there ,be several judgments on which executions’ are,
at the same time, in the sheriii"s hands, against a public oiiicer
and his sureties, amounting in the aggregate to a sum greater than

that, for which the 'sureties are liable, the court must, on their
application, limit the amount to be collected of them, to the

amount of their respective liabilities, and may cause the same to
be applied on the judgments or executions, in proportion to such

amounts.

§ 1020. Actions for lines and forfeitures, may be prosecuted’ by_ '

the officers or persons, to whom they are by law given, br who,

by special provision of law, are authorized to recover them; and \
whether prosecuted by public officers, or by private persons, are .

governed by the same rules as other civi-I actions, except as- otherwise specified in this chapter. ’*

§ 1021. When an action is brought for a penalty, which is limited by law, not to exceed a certain amount, the action may 
brought for that amount; and upon the trial, the amount reovered, must be determined in proportion to the offense.

§ 1022. A recovery of a judgment, for a penalty or forfeiture:
by collusion between the parties, with intent to save the defendant from the consequences contemplated by law, in a case where.
the penalty or forfeiture is given, wholly or partly, to the prosecutor, does not prevent the recovery of the same by another per8011.
§ 1023. Fines and forfeitures, not specially granted or appropriated by law, must be paid into the treasury of the state ; and
whenever by the provisions of law, any property, real or personal, is forfeited to the people of this state,or to any officer for their
use, an action for the recovery of such property, alleging the

grounds of the forfeitute, may be brought by the proper officer,
in the supreme court.

CHAPTER VIII.

ACTIONS BY AND AGAINST CERTAIN PUBLIC OFFICERS AND PUBLIC
BODIES.

§ 1024. The following officers may prosecute actions in their

bonicial capacity:

The board of supervisors of a county;
The loan oilicers and commissioners of loans of a county;

. The superintendents of the poor of a county;

The supervisor of a town;

The overseers of the poor of a town;

The commissioners of highways of a town;

The superintendent of common schools of a town;

The trustees of a school district; '

The trustees of gospel and school lots; and

Any organized department of municipal corporation having a
board of officers, in charge of a particular branch public service,
and specially authorized by statute to prosecute. In such action,
the plaintifffs may be designated by their oiilcial name, or the action may he brought in the name of the body, in whose behalf

- the action is ‘brought.

§ 1025. Every such action must be either, .
1. On a contract made with them in their ofiicial capacity ; or,

2. To enforce a liability, or a duty enjoined by law, in favor of
such oliicers, or the body represented by them; or,

3. To recover a penalty or forfeiture given to such officers or
body; or, '

4. To recover damages for an injury to their official rights or
PT°P91't

§ 1026. When an organised department of a municipal corporation is authorized by statute to sue, it shall, for purposes of the
action, be deemed the real party in interest, though the corporation, of which it is a_ department, be the party ultimately to be

benefited by the _action, or responsible for any oloss incurred
therein.

§ 1027. An action may be brought against the officers mentioned in section 1024, in their official capacity, or against the
body they represent, either upon a contract made by such officers,
in their oilicial capacity, and within the scope of their authority,

or for an injury to the rights of the plaintifff, arising from some
act or omission of such officers, or the body represented by them. ‘
§ 1028. The actions authorized by this chapter may be brought
by or against the officers mentioned in section 1024 upon a cause
of action, which accrued during the term of their predecessors, as
well as during their own term of office, and when brought, may

be continued by, or against, the successors in office of the parties,
whose names may, for that purpose, be substituted in the action.
§ 1029. If judgment, for the recovery of money, be rendered

against a county, or the board of supervisors, or superintendents
of the poor, of a county, or against a town, or the supervisor or
overseers of the poor of a town, on account of the liability of such
county or town, and the judgment be not satisiled, or proceedings ‘
thereon stayed by appeal or otherwise, before the next annual meetlngjof the board of supervisors of the county ,a certified copy of the

docket of the judgment, may be presented to the board of supervisors at their annual meeting.

§ 1030. The board of supervisors must thereupon cause the
amount due on the judgment, with interest, from the time of the
recovery, until the first Monday in February after such meeting,
to be added to the tax of the town or county, for whose liability
the same was recovered, and the same must be collected 38 other
contingent charges of the town or count

§ 1031. The treasurer of a county, against which, or against
whose oaim-5, a judgment has been recovered, for a liability of
the county, the execution of which has not been stayed 11P0n
3PPe&l, must, upon demand, and the deliveryto him of a certitied
copy of the docket of the judgment, pay the amount due thereon,
if there be sufficient money of the county in hishands, not otherwise specilically appropriated. If he fail to do so, he shall be
personally liable for the amount, unless the collection thereof be
afterwards stayed-upon appeal. ‘

§ 1032. The supervisors, or overseers of the poor, of a town,
against which or against whose officers, a judgment has been recovered for a liability of the town, the execution of which has
, .
not been stayed upon appeal, must in like manner,~upon demand,

and the delivery of a certified copy of the docket of the judgment, pay the amount due thereon, if there be sufficient money
of the town in his hands, not otherwise speciiically appropriated.

If he fail to do so, he shall be personally responsible for the
amount, unless the collection thereof be afterwards stayed upon
appeal. '

§ 1033. Execution cannot be issued on a judgment, mentioned
in sections 1029 and 1031 without leave~of the court,_nor must
leave be granted, until the court is satisfied that payment has
been demanded of the proper county, or town officers, as provided
in‘ the last two sections, and that the board of supervisors have
wrongfullytomitted to include the amount in the tax list, as provided in section 1030. When execution is issued, the property
of the county, or town, only is liable thereon. \

§ 1034. Judgments, for the recovery of money, rendered against
loan officers, commissioners of loans, superintendents of common

schools, commissioners of highways, trustees of school districts,
and trustees of gospel and school lots, or other town or county
officers, on account of a liability of such county or town, may be
enforced by execution, or otherwise, against such officers personally, and the amount collected of them must be allowed to them
in their official accounts.

CHAPTER IX.

\

‘ACTIONS TO VACATE CHARTERS AND LETTERS PATENT, AND TO PREVENT THE USURPATION OF AN OFFICE OR FRANCHISec.

§ 1035. The writ of scire facias, the writ of quo warranto, and
proceedings by information in the nature of quo warranto, are

abolished, and the remedies heretofore obtainable, in-these forms,

i may be obtained by civil actions, under ‘the provisions of this chapter. But nothing contained in this section affects any right
already acquired, or any judgment or order already made, or any
proceeding already taken. ’

§ 1036. An action may be brought by the attorney general, in
the name of the people of this state-, whenever the legislature
so directs,.against a corporation, for the purpose of vacating or
annulling the act of incorporation, or an act renewing its eorpol.
rate existence, on the ground, that such act or renewal was procured, upon some fraudulent ‘suggestion or «concealment of ‘a
material fact, by the persons incorporated, or by some of them.
or with their knowledge and consent. . A ’

§ 1037. An action may be brought by-the attorney general, iii
the name of the people of this state, on leave granted by the supreme court, or a judge thereof, for the purpose of vacatingthe

charter or annulling the existence-of a corporation, other than
munipical, whenever such corporation; °

1. Otfends ayinst any of the provisions of the act or acts creating, altering, or renewing such corporation»; or .

2. Violates the provisions of any law, by which such corporation forfeits its charter, by abuse of its powers; or

3. Whenever it has forfeited its privileges or franchises, by
failure to exercise its powers ; or .

4. Whenever it has done or omitted any act, which amounts
to a surrender of its corporate rights, privileges, or franchises; or

5. Whenever it exercises a franchise or privilege, not conferred
upon it by law. ‘

And it is the duty of the attorney general, to apply for leave,
md upon leave granted, to bring the action in every case of public interest, whenever he has reason to believe, that any of these
acts or emissions can be proved, and also in every other case, in
which satisfactory security is given, to indemnify the people ofthis state, against the costs and expenses to be incurred» thereby.

§ 1038. Leave to bring the action may be granted, upon the
application of the attorney general; and the courtnor judge may,
at discretion, direct notice of such application to be given to ‘ the
corporation or its officers, .previous’t‘o granting such leave, and
may hear the corporation in oppontion thereto.

§ 1039. An action may be brought by the attorney general in
the name of the people of this state, upon his own information,

or upon the complaint of a private party, against the party oii'ending in the following cases: ‘

1. ‘When any person usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully holds
or exercises any public oiiice, civil or military, or any franchise
within this state, or any oilice in a corporation created by the authority of this state: or,

2. When any public oilicer, civil or military, has done or suffered an act which, by the provisions of law, makes a forfeiture
of his office: or,

3. When any association, or number of persons, act within
this state as a corporation, without being duly incorporated.

And it is the duty of the attorney general to bring the action,
whenever he has reason to believe that any of these acts can be

proved, or when he is directed to do so, by a judge of the supreme court. '

§ 1040. An action maybe brought by the attorney general, in
the name of the people of this state, for the purpose of vacating

or annulling letters patent, granted by the people of this state,

in the following cases :

1. When he has reason to believe, that such letters patent were
obtained by means of some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a material fact, made by a person to whom the same were
issued or made, or with his consent or knowledge: or,

2. When he has reason to believe, that such letters patent were
issued through mistake, or in ignorance of a material fact: or,

3. When -he has reason to believe that the patentee, or those
claiming under him, have done or omitted an act, in violation of
the terms and conditions on which the letters patent were grantcd, or have, by any other means, forfeited the interest acquired
under the same. 

§ 1041. When‘an action is brought by the attorney general, by
virtue of this chapter, on the complaint or information of a person having an interest in the question, the name of such person
must be joined with the people, as plaintifff.

§ 1042. Whenever such action is brought against a person for
usurping an oiiice, the attorney—general, in addition to the statement of the cause of action, may also set forth in the complaint,
the name of the person rightfully entitled to the office, with a

statement of his right thereto, and in such case,‘upon proof by
atiidavit, that the defendant has ‘received fees or emoluments belonging to the office, and by means of his usurpation thereof, an
order may be granted by a judge of the supreme court, for the
arrest of such defendant, and holding him to bail, and thereupon
he may be arrested and held to bail, in the same manner, and
with the same effect, and subject to the same rights and liabilities,
as in other civil actions, where the defendant is subject to
arrest. 1

§ 1043. In every such "case, judgment may be rendered upon
the right of the defendant, and also upon.the.right of the party,
so alleged to be entitled, or only upon the right of the defendant,
as justice requires. ‘

§ 1044. If the judgment be rendered upon the right of the
person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such

person, he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office and
executing such oilicial bond as may be required by law, to take

upon himself the execution of the office, and it is his duty, immediately thereafter, to demand of the defendant in the action,a1l
the books and papers, in his custody, or within his power, belonging to the office.

§ 1045. If the defendant refuse or neglect to deliver over such
books or papers, pursuant to the demand, he is to be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and the same proceedings may be had
and with the same effect, to compel delivery of such books and
P3P9l'8, as are prescribed in article five, title six, chapter six, 0
the first part of the revised statutes. '

§ 1046. If judgment be rendered, upon the right of the person

so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he'may recover .

53‘ action, the damages which he shall have sustained, by reason
of the usurpation of the office by the defendant. .
§ 1047. Where several persons claim to be entitled to the same

Office or franchise, one action may be brought against all such

P€T$0ns,in order to try their respective rights to such office or
franchise,

§ 1048. When a defendant, whether a natural person or a corporation, against whom such action has been brought,is adjudged
guilty of usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully holding or
exercising any oiiice, franchise or privilege, judgment must be
rendered, that such defendant be excluded from the office, franchise or privile-ge,and also that theplaintifff recover costs against
such defendant. The court may also, in its discretion, impose
upon the defendant a fine not exceeding two thousand dollars ;
which tine, when collected, must be paid into the treasury of the
state. ‘ '

§ 1049. If it be adjudged, that a corporation, against which an
action shall have been brought, pursuant to this chapter, has by
neglect, abuse or surrender, forfeited its corporate rights, privileges and franchises, judgment must be rendered, that the corporation be excluded from such corporate rights, privileges or franchises, and that the corporation be dissolved._ ~

§ 1050. If judgment be rendered in such action, against a corporation, or against persons claiming to be a corporation, the court
may cause the costs therein to be collected, by execution against

the persons claiming to be a corporation, or by process against
the directors or other officers of such corporation. ,

§ 1051. When such judgment is rendered against a corporation,
the court has the same. power to restrain the corporation, to appoint a receiver of its property, and to take an account, and make
distribution thereof among its creditors, as are given in the chaptier upon actions respecting corporations, and in the chapter upon
the voluntary dissolution of corporations, and it is the duty of the

attorney-general, immediately after the rendition of such judgment, to institute proceedings for that purpose. ‘

§ 1052. Upon the rendition of such judgment against a corpo. ration, or for the vacating or annulling of letters patent, it is the

duty of the attorney-general, to cause a copy of the judgment roll
to _be forthwith filed in the office of the secretary of state.‘

§ 1053. Such secretary must thereupon, if the record relate to

letters patent, make an entry in the records of the commissioners
of the land oilice, of the substance and effect of the judgment,

' and of the time when the record thereof was docketed; and the
‘real property granted by letters patent, may thereafter be disposed

of by such commissioners, in the ‘same manner as if the letters
patent had never been issued.

CHAPTER X.
acnous IN Jusrrcns’ COURTS.

ARTICLE I.

SUMMONS, ARREST AND ATTACHMENT.

§ 1054. Parties in justices’ courts may prosecute or defend in

person or by attorney,.and any person may act as attorney, except that the constable by whom the summons or jury process

was served, cannot appear or act on the trial in behalf of either

. party. He may however act, in any other stage of the action, as

agent or attorney for a party, and the authority of a person to act

for another as attorney, may be oral or written, but unless ad-'

mitted by the adverse party, must be proved by the oath of the
attorney or otherwise. '

§ 1055. Actions in justices’ courts are commenced by sum- .

mons, or by the voluntary appearance and pleadings of the parties without summons. In the latter case, the action is deemed
commenced; at the time of appearance.

§ 1056. When a guardian is necessary, he must be appointe
by the justice as follows: ~ i

1. If the infant be plaintifff, the appointment must be made
before the summons is issued, upon the application of the infant,
if he be of the age of fourteen years or upwards, if under age,
upon the application of some relative or friend. The consent in
writing of the guardian to be appointed, and to be responsible
for costs, if he fail in the action, must be first filed with the
instioe- n '

2. If the infant be defendant, theeguardian must be appointed.
at the time the summons is returned, or before the pleadings. It
is the right of the infant to nominate his ownguardian, if the in«
taut be over fourteen years of age, and the proposed guardian be
present, and consent in writing to be appointed- Otherwise the
justice may appoint any suitable person who gives such consent.»

§ 1057. The summons must be addressed to the defendant by;
name,Zor if his name be unknown, by a description of him, and»

must summon him to appear before the justice, at his office or
usual court room, in a town or ward, and at a time specified

therein, to answer the complaint of the plaintifff, for a cause of
action therein described in general terms suiiicient to apprise the

defendant of the nature of the claim against him, and must state
the amount for which the plaintiff will take judgment, if the defendant fail to appear and answer. It must be subscribed by the
plaintifff, or by the justice before whom it is returnable.

§ 1058. The time mentioned in the summons, for the appearance of the defendant, and the time of service must be as follows:

1. Where the summons is accompanied by an order to arrest
the defendant, or to attach property under sections 1062 and 1067, it must be returnable immediately:

2. When the defendant is not a resident of the county, or
where the plaintifff is not a resident, and gives the security required by section 1073, it must be returnable not more thanthree
days from its date, and must be served at least two days before
the time for appearance: ~

3. In all other cases it must be returnable, not more than

twelve days from its date, and must be served at least six days‘

before the time for appearance.
§ 1059. The summons must be served by a constable of the
county, as follows:

1. If the action be against a corporation, by delivery of a copy

to the president, orother head of the corporation, or to the secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof, or when no such offlcer resides i-n the county, to a director resident therein: and in
case of a railroad company, to a superintendent or station master, resident or acting in the county:

2. If against a_minor under the age of fourteen years, by delivery of a copy to such mihor, and also to~h_is father, mother, or
guardian, or if there be none within the county, then to any
person having the care or control of such minor, or with whom
he resides, or in whose service he is:

3. If against a person, judicially declared to be of unsound
mind, or incapable of conducting his own aifairs in consequence

of habitual drunkenness, or for any other cause, and forwhom a
committee has been appointed, by delivery of a copy, to such
committee and to the defendant personally:

4. If an order to attach property be endorsed on the summons,
by leaving a copy, as prescribed in section 1070:

5. In all other cases by delivery of a copy to the defendant
personally. , ‘
§ 1060. When the action is on a promissory note, bill of exchange, or other obligation for the payment of money only, or
fora specihed amount of property, at a valuation fixed in the

contract, or on account, the plaintiff may serve, with the sum- .

mans, a copy of his complaint, together with a copy of such obligation or account. In such case, unless the defendant, in his
answer, specifically deny the note, bill of exchange, or other
obligation or account, he is to be deemed to have admitted it.

§ 1061. The parties are entitled to one hour in which to appear,
after the time mentioned in the summons for appearance, but are
not bound to remain longer than that time, unless both parties
have appeared, and the justice, being present, is actually engaged
in the trial of another action, or of a special proceeding. In such

case, he may postpone the time of appearance until the time of
mch trial. 

§ 1062. An order to arrest the defendant may be endorsed on
asummons issued by the justice, and the defendant may be arrested thereon, by the constable, at the time of serving the summons, and brought before the justice, and there detained until duly discharged, in the following cases:

1. In an action for the recovery of damages, on a cause of action not arising on contract, when the defendant is not a resident
of the county, or is about to remove therefrom, or when the action
is for a willful injury to person, or to property knowing it to belong to another:

2. In an action against a person who does not reside in the
State :

3. In an action for a line or penalty, or for money or property,
embezzled or fraudulently misapplied or converted to his own use,
by a public officer, or an officer of a corporation, or an attorney,
factor, broker, agent or clerk, in the course of his employment as

such or by any other person in a fiduciary capacity, or for misconduct or neglect in oiiice, or in a professional. employment:

4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation, for which the action is
brought, or in concealing or disposing of the property for the taking, detention or conversion of which the action is brought:

5. 'When the defendant has removed, concealed or disposed of
his property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors :

6. When an arrest is authorized by special statute, in an action
for a fine or penalty, or for a willful violation of duty.

But no female can be arrested, except for a willful injury toper—
son or to property knowing it to belong to another.

§ 1063. Before an order for an ‘arrest can be made, the party
applying must prove, to the satisfaction of the justice, by the affidavit of himself, or some other person, the facts on which the
application is founded, and the amount of his debt or claim over

all payments and set-olfs. The plaintiii‘ must also execute and
deliver to the justice a‘ written undertaking, with or without sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment
the plaintifff will pay'to him all costs that may be awarded to
the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason
of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking,
which must be double the. amount claimed, not exceeding one
hundred dollars. If the undertaking be executed by the plaintiff without sureties, he iiiust annexpthereto an affidavit, that he
is a resident and householder or freeholder, withinthe county,
and worth double the sum specified in the undertaking, over all

his debts and liabilities.
§ 1064. The defendant, immediately upon being arrested, must

be taken to the office or usual court room of the justice who made
the order, and if he be absent, or unable to try the action, or ifit

be made to appear to him, by the affidavit of the defendant, that
heis a material witness in the action, the constable must immediately take the defendant before the next justice of the city or

' town, who must take cognizance of the action,and proceed thereon, as if the summons had been issued, and the order of arrest

made by him. ’
§ 1065. The constable, making the arrest, must immediately

give notice thereof ‘ to the ‘plaintifff, and endorse on the summons

and subscribe a certificate, stating the time of serving the same
the time of the arrest, and of his giving notice to the plaintifff.

§ 1066. The constable making an arrest, or another constable,
by direction of the justice, must keep the defendant in custody
until duly discharged by order of the court, but in no case can
such detention exceed ‘twelve hours from the time of his being
tirst brought before the justice, unless within that time, the trial
of the action be commenced, or unless it be delayed at the request
of the defendant. 

§ 1067. When the cause of action arises upon a judgment rendered within this state, or an order of a court of competent juris‘ diction, to pay a sum of money, or upon any other contract, an

order toattach the property of the defendant, may be endorsed
upon a summons issued by the justice, in the following cases:

1. When -,the defendant has departed, or is about to depart,
fmm the county of his residence, or where the action is brought,
with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of
process, or when he keeps himself concealed therein with the
like intent: .

2. When the defendant has concealed, removed or disposed of

his property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors

plaintifff must prove to the satisfaction of the justice, by the affidavit of himself, or another person, the facts on which the application is founded; he must also prove in the same manner, the
amount,as near as may be, of his debt or claim, over all payments and set-oifs. He must also execute, and deliver to the justice, a written undertaking approved by him, with sufficient sure~
ties, to the effect that he will pay to the defendant, all damages
which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, if the plain.
tiff fail to recover judgment; and that if judgment be recovered,
the plaintifff will restore so much of the property, or the avails
thereof, if any, as may remain after satisfying the judgment and
the subsequent costs.

§ 1069. The order of attachment, must state the amount shown
by the affidavit to be due, and must direct that the property of
the defendant liable to execution, sufficient to satisfy the same,

§ 1068. Before an order to attach property can be made the ‘

be attached and kept, in order to satisfy any judgment that may
be recovered in the action.

§ 1070. The constable, to whom the summons with the order
is delivered, must take into his possession, the property of the
defendant liable to execution in the action, and keep the same as
directed in the order, and make an inventory thereof, and deliver
the same to the defendant, if he can be found in the county. If
not found, the constable must leave a copy of the summons, the
order and the inventory certified by him, at the residence of the

defendant, with some person of suitable age and discretion, if
any such person be found there, otherwise, he must post the same
on the outer door of such residence. If the defendant have no
place of residence in the county, then the constable must leave
the copy with the person, in whose possession the property is
found.

§ 1071. The property, attached by a constable, must not be
removed by him, if an undertaking with sufficient surety,be executed and delivered to him, to the effect, that if judgment be rendered against the defendant in the action, and execution issued
thereon, within thirty days after the judgment, the property shall
be produced to satisfy the execution. If any person claim the

A property attached, the same must be deliveredto him, if at any

time after the seizure, and before a sale on the execution, upon
his executing, and delivering to the constable, in whose custody
the property may be, an undertaking, with suiiicieut surety, to
the effect, that if any action be brought thereon within three
months, he will establish that he was the owner of the property,
at -the time of the seizure, or. pay the value thereof to the
plaintifff.

§ 1072. The constable serving a summons must endorse thereon
a certificate of the time and manner of service. If property has
been attached, that must be stated in the return, and an inventory of the property annexed. If an undertaking have been
given, it must be returned to the justice, with the summons, and
mentioned in the return.

§ 1073. A plaintifff, who resides out of the state, before commencing his action, must file or deposit with the justice or clerk
of the court, security approved by the justice for the payment to

the defendant of any Judgment that may be recovered by him in
the action.

§ 1074. When property is attached and delivered to aclaimant
upon an undertaking as provided in_ section 1071, if the value of
the property recovered from him upon the undertaking, exceed
the judgment recovered in the action, on which the property was
attached, with interest thereon, the defendant in such original
action is entitled to the excess. Or if such defendant satisfy the
claim and costs, or the judgment against him, he shall be entitled
to the benefit of the undertaking of the claimant, and may bring
an action thereon in his own name. ‘

ARTICLE II.

PLEADING8 AND TR ILL.

§ 1075. The pleadings must take place at the time the summons is returned served, or at such other time, not exceeding nve
days thereafter, as the justice may appoint for the convenience of
parties, and by their consent.

§ 1076. The pleadings in justice’s courts are,

1. The complaint by the plaintifff, stating the cause of action:

2. The answer by the defendant, stating the grounds of the
defense:

3. When the answer sets up a counterclaim, the reply by the
plaintiil‘.

§ 1077. The pleadings may be oral, except when the title 
real property is brought in question, or they may be in writing;
if oral, the substance of them must be entered by the justice in
hisdocket ; if in writing, they must be filed in his‘ office, and a

reference to them made in the docket. They are not required to"

be inany particular form, but must be such, as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended. . '

§ 1078. The complaint must state in a plain and direct manner,
the facts constituting the cause of action. 

§ 1079. The answer may contain a denial of any of the material facts stated‘ in the complaint, which the defendant believes
to be untrue, and also a statement in a plain and direct manner,
of any other facts, constituting a defense, or a counterclaim upon
Which an action might be brought by the defendant against the
Dlaintiii‘ in a justice’s court.

§ 1080. When the answer contains a counterclaim, the plaintifff may reply, denying any of the material allegations relating
thereto. 

§ 1081. A statement in an answer or reply, that the party has
not sufficient knowledge or information in respect to a particular
allegation in the previous pleading of the adverse party, to form
I belief, is equivalent to a denial. 

§ 1082. When the cause of action or counterclaim arises upon
an account or instrument for the payment of money only, it is’
sufficient for the party to deliver the account or instrument to
the court, and to state that there is due to him thereon, from the

adverse party, a specified sum, which he claims to recover or
set off. The court may at the time of the pleading, require that

such writing or account be exhibited to the inspection of the adverse party, with liberty to copy the same; or if not so exh.ibited,_
may prohibit its being afterwards given in evidence.

§ 1083. Every complaint, answer, or reply, must be verified by
the oath of the party pleading, or if he be not present, by the
oath of his agent or attorney, to the effect that he believes it to
be true. The verification must be oral or in“ writing, in conformity with the pleading verified.

§ 1084. Every material allegation in a complaint, or relating
to ‘a counterclaim in an answer, not denied by the pleading of
the adverse party, must, on the trial be taken to be true, except,
that when a defendant, who has not been served with a copy
of- the complaint with the summons, fails to appear and answer,
the plaintifff cannot recover, without proving his case.

§ 1085. Either party may object to a pleading of his adversary,
or to any part thereof, that it is not sufficiently explicit to enable
him to understand it, or that it contains no cause of action or defenc.e, although it be taken as true.

If the court deem the objection well founded, it must order the
pleading to be »amended, and if the party refuse to amend, the
defective pleading must be disregarded. ,

§ 1086. A variance between the proof on the trial, and the
allegations in a pleading, must be disregarded as immaterial, unlessthe court be satisfied, that the adverse party has been misled
tovhis prejudice thereby. ‘

§ 1087. The pleadings maybe amended, at any time before the
trial, or during the trial, or upon appeal, to supply any deiiciency or omission in the allegations or denial, necessary to support

the action or defense, when, by such amendment, substantial

justice will be promoted. If the amendment be made after the
issue, and it be made to appear to the satisfaction of the court,
by oath, that an adjournment is necessary to the adverse party,

in consequence of such amendment, an adjournment must be
granted. The court may also, in its discretion, require as a condition of an amendment, the payment of costs to. the adverse

party, to be fixed by the court, not exceeding three dollars: but
such payment cannot be required, unless an adjournmentis made

necessary by the amendment ; nor can an amendment be allowed‘

after a witness is sworn on the trial, when an adjournment thereby will be made necessary.

§ 1088. When, by the defendant’s answer, the title to real property is brought in question, such answer must be in writing, subscribed by the defendant or his attorney.

§ 1089. If the defendant have been arrested, such answer must
be disregarded, unless the defendant also immediately deliver to
the justice a written undertaking, executed by the defendant, and

one suuicient surety; or if the defendant be absent, by two sufficient sureties, approved by the justice; to the eifect that the defendant will always render himself amenable, within such county,
to the process of the supreme court, during the progress of the
action, and to such as may be issued to enforce the judgment,

which may be given therein; and in case of default, to pay‘all
- damages, not exceeding one hundred dollars. ,
§ 1090. Upon the defendant’s making such an answer, or if he
have been arrested upon such answer and undertaking, thejustice
must enter an order in his docket transferring the action to the

supreme court; and the proceedings must thenceforth be conducted in that court, in all respects as if the action had been first

commenced therein; and costs shall there be given without regard‘
to the amount recovered; the costs before the justice being added

as disbursements. The plaintifff may, however, by a notice served .

within twenty days thereafter, decline to prosecute his action in

the supreme court; in such case, the claim shall be deemed abandoned, and no costs shall be recovered against him in the supreme
court. 

§ 1091. The defendant is not at liberty to give evidence, by
which the question of title to real property is raised on the trial
before a justice. And when from the plaintifffs own showing, on
the trial, it appears that the determination of the action will necessarily involve the decision of a question of title to real property, the justice must dismiss the action, with costs, stating on his

docket the reason therefore; but such dismissal shall not preclude
the plaintifff from an action in the supreme court for the same
cause.

§ 1092. When the title to real property is set forth in the answer, as provided in section 1088, or appears on the trial as provided in the last section, and there are other causes of action in
ihe complaint, not aifected by the question of title, "the order to
transfer or to dismiss the action shall not include such other causes;

but as to them, theaction must be severed, and tried before the
justice in the same manner as if the question of title had not been
raised.

§ 1093. Upon the return day, if a jurybe required, or if the
justice be actually engaged in other oiiicial business, he may adjourn the trial wlthout the consent of either party, as follows:

1. Where a party, who is not a resident of the county, is in attendance; or where the defendant is in attendance under arrest;

the adjournment not to exceed twenty-four hours; and the defendant, if under arrest, to continue in custody:

2. In other cases, not to exceed hve days, unless by consent of
parties. ' T

If the trial be not adjourned, it must take place immediately
upon the return of the summons. ‘

§ 1094. The trial may be adjourned by consent, or upon application of either party, without the consent of the other, for a
period not exceeding eight days, as follows :

l. The party asking the adjournment must, if required by his
adversary, prove by his own oath or otherwise, that he cannot,

for want of material testimony, which - he expects to procure,
safely proceed to trial :

2. If the application be on the part of the plaintifff, andthe
defendant be under arrest, an adjournment for more than twentyfcur hours, discharges the defendant from custody, but the action

may proceed notwithstanding: and the defendant shall be subject
to arrest on the execution in the same manner as if he had not

been so discharged:

3. If the application be on the part of a defendant under arrest,
before it can be granted, he must execute an undertaking, with
one or more sufllcient suredes to be approved by the justice, as
follows : If the arrest be for a cause speciiied in the list four subdividons of section 1062, or in the sixth, the undertaking must
be to the effect, that he will appear at the return day, and not
depart from the court until duly discharged, or until after the
trial and judgment, and after a reasonable opportunity to arrest
him on execution issued upon the judgment, if any be obtained

against him. If the arrest be for a cause specified in subdivision.

5, orthat section, the undertaking must be to the eifect, that no
part of the property of the defendant, liable to be taken on execution, shall be removed, secreted, assigned or otherwise disposed '

of, except for the necessary support, for the time, of himself and_
family, until the plaintiii"s demand be satisned, or until the expiration or ten days after the judgment, if any be obtained against
him in the action: a '

4. Either- party applying for an adjournment, must also, if required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any
witnesses of such adverse party who are in attendance, be then
taken by deposition before the justice, which must accordingly be
done; and the testimony so taken may be read on the trial with
the same efect, and subject to the same objections, as if the witness were produced. A .

§ 1096. An adjournment may be had, either at the time of joinhis the issue, or at any subsequent time to which the cause may
stand adjourned, on application of either party, for a period longer than e7ght days, but not to exceed ninety days from the time
ctthe return of the summons, upon compliance with the provision of the last section, and upon proof, by the oath of the party,
or otherwise, to the satisihction of the- justice, thatsuch party
cannot be ready for trial before the time to which he desires an

adjournment, for the want of material evidence, describing it,

that the delay has not been made necessary by any act or negligence on his part, since the action was commenced, and that he
expects to procure the evidence at the time stated by him.

§ 1096. If the plaintifff fail to appear at the return day of the
summons and make his complaint, the action must be dismissed.

If the defendant fail toappear at the return day of the summons,

or if either party fail, to attend at a day to which the trial has
been adjourned, or fail to make the necessary pleading or proof

' on his part, the case may nevertheless proceed at the request of

the adverse party; and judgment must be given in conformity
with the pleadings and proofs. - ’
§ 1097. A trial by jury must he demanded at the timeot joining
issue; andis waived, if neither party then demand it. When demanded, the trial of the case must be adjourned,unti} a time and"
place fixed for the return of the jury. If neither party desire anadjournment, thetime and place must be determined by the justice,
and must be on the same day or within the next two days. The
jury must be immediately drawn and summoned, and a return

thereof made as prescribed in sections 306, 307 and 308.
§ 1098. At the time appointed for the trial,and on the return

of the order, it the trial he not further adjourned, and if adjourn~
ed, then at the time to which the trial is adjourned, the justice
must proceed to draw from the jurors summoned the names of
persons to constitute the jury for the trial of the issue. Six jurors
constitute a jury, but, by consent of parties, a less number may

act.
§ 1099. If a suiiicient number of competent and indiherent jurors

do not attend, the justice must‘ direct others to be summoned by
a constable, from the vicinity, suiiicient to complete the jury.

§ 1100. The ballots containing names of jurors not summoned,
if any, and of those summoned, but not drawn, must be returned

by the justice, or clerk of the court, to the drawn jury box, except
that such of them as contain the names of persons not liable to

serve as jurors, must be destroyed. The ballots containing the‘

names of the jurors, who serve, must not be returned to the same
box from which they were taken, until all the names have been

drawn out. As often as that happens, the whole number must

be returned to the undravm jury box,to be drawn as in the the
instance.

§ 1101. Before a party can be entitled to I jury, he must deposit
with the justice, or clerk, the sum of three dollars, for juryiees,

from which he must refund to the party the fees of all jurors who
do not attend, and those not refunded must be included in the
judgment as part of the costs, in case the party calling the jury
recover judgment.

§ 1102. No adjournment can be granted after the return of the
jury, unless the party requiring the-same, in addition to the other
conditions imposed on him, deposit with the justice, to be immediately paid to the jurors attending, the sum of twenty~ilve cents
each, which amount is in no case :0 be included as part of the

costs in the judgment. After the adjournment the jurors must"

attend at the time and place appointed, without further notice,
and the fees deposited when the jury was demanded, with the
justice, may remain in his hands until the  are empaneled,
and must be then paid over to them. "

§ 1103. If either party object to the competency of a juror the

question thereon must be tried in a summary manner by the
iust cc, who may examine the juror or other witnesses on oath.

§ 1104. The verdict of the jury must be general, for the plaintiti‘, for a specihed sum, or for the defendant; or when there is a
counter:claim proved, exceeding the demand of the plaintifff as

proved, for the defendant for a specihed sum. But where there
are several plaintiffs or defendants, the verdict may be for, or

or against one, or more, of them.

ARTICLE IH.

JUDGMENT AND EXECUTIOIC.

§ 1105. Judgment that the action be dismissed, without prejudice to a new action, may be entered with costs, in the following
cases:

1. When the plaintin‘ voluntarily dismisses the action, before
it is iinally submitted: ‘ . ,

2. When he fails to appear at the time specified in the summons, or upon adjournment, or within one hour thereafter :.

3. When it is objected at the trial, and appears by the evidence,
that the action is brought in the wrong county or town or by a .

plaintifff not a resident of the county, without giving security, as
provided in section 1073; but if the objection be taken and overruled, it is cause only of reversal on appeal, and does not otherwise invalidate the judgment, if not taken, at the trial, it is waived, i

and is no cause of reversal.
§ 1106. When the defendant fails to appear and answer, judgment must be given for the plaintifff, as follows:
1. Where a copy of the complaint and account, or instrument,
has been served personally with the summons, as prescribed in section 1060, judgment must be given without further evidence

for the sum specified in the summons:
2. In other cases the justice must hear the evidence of the

plaintifff, and render judgment for such sum only as shall appear
by the evidence to be just; but in no case to exceed the amount
speciliedin the summons. _

§ 1107. Upon issue joined, if ajury trial he not demanded, the
justice must hear the evidence, and decide all questions of fact
and of law, and render judgment accordingly.

§ 1108. Upon a verdict, the justice must immediately render
judgment accordingly. When the trial is by the justice, judg-ment must be entered immediately after the close of the trial, if
the defendant has been arrested, or his property attached; in
other cases, it must entered either at the close of the trial, or, if
the justice then desire further time to consider, on the fourth day
thereafter, both days inclusive.

§ 1109. When the amount found due to either party exceeds
the sum, for which the justice is authorized to enter judgment,
such party may remit the excess, and judgment may be entered
for the residue.

§ 1110. In an action arising on contract, when there is no counterclaim, if the plaintifff fail to recover judgment for an amount
equal to that stated in the summons, he cannot recover costs.

§ 1111. If the defendant, at any time before the trial, offer in
writing to allow judgment to be taken against him for a specified
sum, the plaintih‘ may immediately have judgment therefore, with
the costs then accrued. But if he do not accept such offer before

the trial, and fail to recover in the action a sum equal to the oifer, ,

he cannot recover costs accrued after the offer ; but costs must be‘
adjudged against him, and if he recover, deducted from his recovery. But the oner, and failure to accept it, cannot be given
in evidence, to affect the recovery, otherwise than as to costs, as
above provided.

§ 1112. When a judgment is rendered, in a case where the defendant is subject to arrest and imprisonment thereon, it must be
so stated in the judgment, and entered in his docket.

§ 1113. The justice, or clerk of the court, on the demand of a
party in whose favorjudgment is rendered, mustgive him a transcript thereof, which may be filed and docketed in the oiiice of
the clerk of the county where the judgment was rendered. The
time of the receipt of the transcript by the county clerk, must
be noted by him thereon, and entered in the docket; and fnom
that time, the judgment creates a lien in the same manner as a
judgment of the supreme court. Upon the transcript of such

docket, certified by the clerk of the county, and filed in any other
county, the judgment may be there docketed with the same effect,

from the time of filing and docketing in that county. The jnd_g- ,

ment so docketed, and the enforcement thereof, are subject to the
control of the county court of the county where it was first
docketed, as a judgment of that court. But a judgment for less
than twenty-five dollars, so docketed, is not a lien upon, and
cannot be enforced against real property.

§ 1114. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment in a justioe’s court, except when it has been docketed in the county
clerlr’s office, may be issued by the justice before whom the judgment was rendered, or by his successor in office, or the clerk of

the court on the application of the party entitled thereto, at an
time within five years"from the entry of judgment. ‘
§ 1115. The execution must be directed to a constable of the
county, and subscribed by the justice ‘by whom the judgment was
rendered, or by his successor in office, or by the clerk of the court
and must bear date the day of its delivery to the officer to be execnted. It must intelligibly refer to the judgment, by stating the
names of the parties, and the name of the‘ justice -before whom,
3nd of the county and town where, and the time when, it was

rendered ; the amount of the judgment; and, if less than the whole

is due, the true amount due thereon. It must require the constable substantially as -follows :

1. It it be a case where the defendant cannot be arrested, it
must direct the officer to’ collect the amount of the judgment out

of the personal property of the debtor, and to pay the same to the
party entitled thereto:

2. If it be a case where the defendant may be arrested, in addition to the foregoing, it must direct the officer, if sufficient property of the defendant, liable to the execution, cannot be found
to satisfy the judgment, that he arrest the debtor, and commit him
to the jail of the county, until he pay the judgment, or be discharged according to law:

3. It must further, in all cases, direct the oiiicerto make return
of the execution, and a certificate thereon, showing the manner

in which he has executed the same, in sixty days from the time
of his receipt thereof.

§ 1116. Upon an’ execution ona judgment against joint debtors,
upon one or more of whom the summons was not served, the execution must contain a direction to collect the amount out of the
joint property of all the defendants, or the separate property of
the persons upon whom the summons was served, to be specified
by name. If such judgment be also such that the defendants are
subject to arrest thereon, the justice must further specify the
names of those defendants, served with the summons, who may
be arrested for want of property.

§ 1117. A constable may at his peril, omit to arrest a debtor ;
or after arrest, suffer him to go at large before the return day ;
subject only to his liability for an escape, or for omitting to arrest, if he fail to _have either the money or the person of the
debtor in custody at the expiration of the sixty days.

§ 1118. When an execution directs the arrest of the debtor for

want of sutiicient personal chattels, if there be not sufiicient subject to levy, known to the officer, or if upon demand by the cmcer of the debtor, he fail to produce sufficient property, the officer

may without further delay arrest the defendant. When arrested,
the defendant must be conveyed to the common jail of the county,

and there be kept in custody until the execution with costs be
paid, or he be discharged by due course of law.

§ 1119. The debtor committed as provided in the last section,
may be held in prison ten. days; and if he be a person without a
family, for which he provides, one day in addition, for every dollar over ten due on the execution ; or, if he have a family for
which he provides, one day in addition, for every two dollars over
twenty due on the execution.

§ 1120. The affidavit of an imprisoned debtor, that he has a

family for which he provides, specifying by name one or more
persons, members of such family, and the place of their residence,

is sumcient evidence thereof, to authorize his discharge by the
jailor.

§ 1121. An execution may at the request of the plaintifff be
renewed before the expiration of sixty days from the time of its

issue, by the word “ renewed ” written thereon, with the date
thereof, and subscribed by the justice or clerk of the court. Such

renewal has the effect of an original issue; and may be repeated
as often as may be necessary. If an execution be returned unsatished, another may be afterwards issued.

§ 1122. A debtor cannot be arrested, nor his property sold on
execution, after sixty days from its issue or renewal ; but property

levied on within the sixty days, may be sold after a renewal.
§ 1123. A constable is liable to the party in whose favor an

execution is issued to him, for the amount thereof, in the following cases :
1. When he suffers sixty days to elapse without making a true

return thereof to the justice, and paying to him or to the party
entitled the money collected thereon by him : ' ' ‘
2. When he willfully or carelessly omits to levy upon property;

or, if the debtor be liable to arrest, to arrest and imprison him,
within sixty days; or, having arrested the debtor, fails to commit him to the county jail within the sixty days.

§ 1124. Upon a justice’s judgment docketed in a county clerk’s
oEce,' execution can only be issued by the clerk with whom the

transcript is filed, or by the plaintifff in person; and it may be
sent to one or more counties where the judgment is docketed. It
must conform substantially to the execution issued by a justice,

except that it must state the time when the judgment was docketed in the county from which it is issued, and must be directed
to the sheriff, and may direct, that for want of suiiicient personal
property the debt may bejmade out of the real property of -the
debtor. ‘

ARTICLE Iv.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

§ 1125. Justices’ courts being courts of peculiarand limited
jurisdiction, only those provisions of this code which are i-n their
nature applicable to the organization, powers and course of proceeding in justices’ courts, and in respect to which no special provision is made in this chapter, are applicable to justices’ courts
and the proceedings therein. ‘ '

§ 1126. Every justice or the clerk of the court must keep a
book, denominated a docket, in which must be entered by him,

1. The title of every action in which the summons is returned
served, or when the parties voluntarily appear:

2. The date of the summons, and the time of its return; and
if an order to arrest the defendant or, attach property was made,
such fact must also be stated :

3'. The time when the parties, or either of them, appeared, a
minute of the pleadings, if in writing, referring to them; if not
in writing, a concise statement of the material part of the pleadings: . . .

4. Every adjournment, stating on whose application, whether
an oath,,.evidence, or consent, and to what time: ‘

6. When a trial by jury is demanded, the demand must be
stated, and by whom made, the names of the jury drawn, and the
time appointed for the trial and return of the jury:

6. The names of the jury who appear, and of those sworn ;
the names of all» witnesses sworn, and at whose request; the ob.
jection, if any, made to testimony, and the decision thereon ;

7. The verdict of the jury, and when received ; if the jury
disagree and are discharged that fact must be stated:

8. The judgment of the court, specifying the items of costs. in_
cluded, and the time when rendered: .

9. The issuing of execution; when issued, and to whom ; the

renewals thereof, if any, and when made; the return, and when

made, and a statement of any money paid to the justice, and
when, and by whom:

10. The giving of a transcript to he died in the county clerk’s
office, and when given:

11. The receipt of a notice of appeal, or order to make or
amend a return, stating the time of the receipt and the fees

therefore. ,

§ 1127. The several particulars in the last section specified,
must be entered under the title of the action to which they relate,and at the time when they occur. Such entries in a justice’s

docket, or a transcript thereof, certihed by the justice or his successor in office are primary evidence to prove the facts so stated

therein.
§ 1128. The justice or clerk must keep an alphabetical index

to his docket, in which must be entered the names of the parties to each judgment, with a reference to the page of the entry. The
names of the plaintifffs must be entered in the index in the alphabetical order of the first letter of the family names.

§ 1129. It is the duty of every justice’s clerk, upon the expiration of his term of office, to deposit with his successor his official
dockets, as well his own as those of his predecessors which may be
in his custody; there to be kept as public records. If the office

of a justice become vacant by his death or removal from the town
or otherwise, before his successor is elected and qualified, the

dockets in possession of such justice must be deposited with th‘e

- supervisor of the town, to be by him delivered to the successor in

«thee of the justice.
§ 1130. Any justice or clerk with whom the docket of his predecessor is deposited, may issue execution on a judgment there

entered and unsatished, and not docketed in the county clerk’s
office, in the same manner and with the same effect as the justice

by whom the judgment was rendered might have done.
§ 1131. The justice elected to ill] a vacancy, or when elected,

chosen by lot to till a vacancy for less than afull _term, is deemed the
Successor of the justice whose office became vacant before the expiration of a full term. When a full term expires, the same or
another person elected to take office in the same town, from that
time is deemed the successor.

§ 1132. When two or more justices are equally entitled, under

the last section, to be deemed the successors in oilice of a justice,
the supervisor of the town must, by a certificate subscribed by

him, and filed in the office of the town clerk, 'with a duplicate _ attached to the last docket designate which justice is to be deemed the successor of a justice going out of office or whose oilice has

become vacant.
§ 1133. The summons, execution, and every other paper made
or issued by a justice, must be filled up without-a blank left to be

filled by another; otherwise it is void.

§ 1134. In a town or city where no place for holding justice’s courts is prescribed by other competent authority, every
justice now in office and‘ every ’ justice hereafter elected, before
entering upon the duties of his office, must, by appointment in
writing, filed with the town clerk, assign a day of the week and
a place at which the summons, issued by a plaintifff himself, may
be made returnable before him. It is the duty“‘of the justice to
attend at his office, thus designated, on the day assigned for returns, from nine o’clock in the morning until four o’clock in the
afternoon.‘

§ 1135. The day so appointed must not be the same specified

in the appointment of another justice of the same town previously
filed. The place so designated may be known as the justice’s office and may be afterwards changed by him on filing a new appointment, and posting notice thereof in three public places of the
town. I

§ 1136. In case of thegsickness, other disability, or necessary
absence of a justice at the time appointed, another justice of the
same town may, at his request, attend in his behalf, and shall
thereupon become vested with the power, for the time being, of
the justice before whom the summons was returnable. In that
case the proper entry of the proceeding before the attending justice, subscribed by him,must be made in the docket of the justice
before whom the summons was returnable. If the case be adjourned, the justice before whom the summons was returnable,
must resume jurisdiction.

§ 1137. A justice may at the request of a party, and on being
satisfied that it is expedient, specially depute any discreet person

of suitable age, and not interested in the action, to serve a summons or execution, with or without an order to arrest the defendant, or to attach property. Such deputation must be in writing
on the process. '

§ 1138. The person so deputed has the authority of a constable
in relation to the service, execution and return of such process,
and is subject to the same obligations but can not receive a fee
for the service. ,

§ 1139. When the sureties of a constable make complaint to a
county court that such constable has unlawfully converted tohis
own use, or misapplied money collected by him as constable,-for
which they have been sued, or are liable to be sued, such application being verified by oath that they believe it to be true, the
county court must immediately make an order suspending such
constable from the further exercise of his official powers until he
give new security. Such order must be served on the constable
and filed in the office of the town clerk.

§ 1140. When an execution is delivered to a constable within
the last sixty days of his term of office, he may, notwithstanding
the expiration of his term, proceed thereon, in the same manner
asif he still continued in office, and his sureties shall be liable to
the same extent.

§ 1141. A justice may punish, as for a criminal contempt, per‘
sons guilty of the following acts, and no others :

1. Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior toward the
justice while holding the court, tending to interrupt the due
course of a trial, or other judicial proceeding:

2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance, tending to interrupt the due couree of a trial or other
judicial proceeding:

3. Willful resistance, in the presence of the justice, to the execution of a lawful order or process made or issued by him.

§ 1142. A warrant of arrest may be issued by such justice, on
which the person so guilty may be arrested, and brought before
thejustice, on the same day, or the next judicial day, when an

°PP0rtunity to be heard in his defense or excuse must be given.
The justice may thereupon discharge him, or may convict him of
the offense, and adjudge a punishment by line or imprisonment,

or both; such fine not to exceed twenty dollars, and such imprisonment, ten days.

§ 1143. The conviction, specifying particularly the oifence and
the judgment thereon, must be entered by the justice in his docket. A warrant ofcommitment to the jail of the county until the
fine be paid, or for the term of the imprisonment, may then be
issued. Such warrant must contain a transcript of the entry in

the docket; and the same must be executed by any constable to
whom it may be given, and by the jailer of the county.

§ 1144. If a person summoned as a juror or witness fail to attend, the justice may issue a warrant to arrest the delinquent for

the purpose of compelling his attendance and punishing his disobedience. .
§ 1145. When the person arrested is brought before the justice,

or when a person in attendance refuses to serve as ajuror or to
testify as a witness, and no valid excuse be shown, the justice

may impose a fine upon him, not exceeding live dollars. An entry of such fine, stating the reason thereof, must be made by the

justice in his docket, and thereupon shall have the effect of a
judgment, in favor of the overseers of the poor of the town

against the delinquent, and may be enforced as well against his
person as his property.
§ 1146. The term “justice,” as used in this chapter, includes

justice of the peace and justices of justice’s courts in cities; the
term “town,” includes ward or district, in reference to justice’s
courts in cities; and whenever other sections of the code are
made applicable to justice’s courts, the terms “judge” and “court”
therein, are to be deemed to include justice and justice’s courts ;

and the term “sheriff,” to include constable.
§ 1147. For services rendered pursuant to the provisions of

this chapter, fees may be charged, and included in the judgment,
as follows :

1. For all proceedings when the defendant does not answer,”

including" judgment, transcript and execution, one dollar:
2. For all proceedings to, and including the issue, if an order

to arrest a defendant, or to attach property, be made, one dollar ;
if there be no order to arrest, or to attach property, fifty cents:

3. For all proceedings after issue, to and including trial by
jury, if there be one, one dollar and fifty cents. If there be no
jury, one dollar:

4. For judgment upon the issue and any proceedings afterwards, including transcript, executions, returns, and all other 1

proceedings and entries, fifty cents:
6. Postage actually paid,on, sending or receiving a commission

to take testimony.

§ 1148. Constables are entitled to receive, from the party in
whose favor the services are rendered, the following fees ; of
which those rendered before judgment may be included therein,
when it is in favor of the party liable therefore:

1. For serving a summons, or execution, and making return,‘
including a copy, when there is noarrest or attachment of property, for each defendant served, twenty cents:

2. When the defendant is arrested; for serving the summons,
making the arrest, and giving notice to the plaintifff, including.
copies and return, forty cents for one defendant, and twenty cents
for each defendant, more than one arrested: —

3. When property is attached; for serving summons, attach- T
ing property, including copies, inventories and return, fifty cents
for one defendant, and ten cents for each defendant more than
one : .

4. For travel; going to serve a summons, or give notice to the
plaintiff, or to arrest a debtor on execution, or to summon a jury,
six cents for each mile more than one; to be computed for one
person only, from the justice’s office, to the place whens the service is made; but when there is more than one defendant included in the same summons or execution, and in the case of summoning a jury, the constable must certify in his return the
number of miles actually and necessary travelled to make the
service on all the persons served, and his fees shall be according-‘

ly; when a debtor is arrested on execution and committed to
jail, ten cents for each mile, ‘from the place where the arrest is

made, to the jail:

5. For collecting money on execution and paying it over where
property is not sold : four cents for ‘every dollar collected to fifty
dollars, and two cents for every dollar above fifty. For advertising property, twenty-hve cents; for selling property hfty
cents :

6. When an execution is settled by the parties while in the
constafile’s hands, he is entitled to receive from the party in

whose favor it was issued his fees for travel and service actually
performed, and one-half the fees he would have been entitled to
for collecting and paying over.

§ 1149. A witness is entitled to receive from the party in
whose behalf he attends, to be included in a judgment in favor
of the party liable therefore, as follows: ~

If a resident of the city, village or town where the trial is had,
twelve and a half cents; in other cases twenty-live cents; also,
four cents for each mile’s actual travel, going from his residence
to the place of trial and returning.

§ 1150. Jurors are entitled to receive fees from the party who

demands a jury trial, to be included in a judgment in his favor
twenty-five cents for attending, whether sworn or not, and the

same fee for another attendance pursuant to adjournment, from
the party applying therefore.

§ 1151. Upon and execution issued on a justice’s judgment,
docketed in a county clerk’s office, the same fees are allowed as
on executions issued by a justice, except that when real property
is sold the printer’s fees for advertising may be charged in addi-’

tion, and also the same fees for a certificate of sale and for a
sheriii"s deed as are allowed in the supreme court.

§ 1152. If a justice, constable, witness or juror receive greater
fees than are allowed by law, the excess may be recovered back,
even though they may not be included in the judgment.

§ 1153. Upon a recovery in favor of the plaintifff, to a greater
amount than one hundred dollars, exclusive of fees, in the marine
court of the city of New-York, or in a justices court of that city,

five per cent upon the amount of the recovery may be added for
costs, and included in the judgment.


TITLE XII.

OF APPEALS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I.

APPEALS IN GENERAL.

§ 1154. A judgment or order in a civil action may be reviewed
as prescribed by this title, and not otherwise.

§ 1155. An order, made out of court,witiiout notice to the-ad- 1

verse party, may be vacated or modified, without notice, by the
judge who made it, ' or may be vacated or modified on notice, in
the manner in which other motions are made.

§ 1156. Any party aggrieved, or his representative or successor
in interest may appeal in the cases prescribed in this title.

§ 1157. The party-appealing is known as the appellant, and the
adverse party as the respondent. But the title of the action is
not to be changed in consequence of the appeal.

§ 1158. An appeal must be made by the service of‘ a notice in
writing, on the adverse party and on the clerk with whom the
judgment or order appealed from is entered, stating the appeal
from the same or some specified part thereof. When a. party.
gives, in good faith, notice of appeal from a judgment or order,
and omits, through mistake, to do any other act necessary to perfect the appeal or to stay proceedings, the court may permit an
amendment on such'terms as may be just. '

§ 1159. Upon the appeal, allowed by the second and third chapters of this title, being perfected, the clerk with whom the
notice of appeal is filed must, at the expense of the appellant,

forthwith transmit to the appellate court a certihed copy of the
notice of appeal and of the judgment roll.

§ 1160. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may review any intermediate, order, involving the merits, and necessarily aEecting the judgment. _ l V

§ 1161. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the appellate court may reverse, ailirm or modify the judgment or order
appealed from, in the respect mentioned in-the notice of appeal,
and as to any or all of the parties, and may, if necessary or proper, order a new trial. When the judgment is reversed or modmed, the appellate’ court may make complete restitution of all
property and rights lost by the erroneous judgment.

§ 1162. The appeal allowed by the second and third chapters

of this title, must be taken within two years after the judgment,
if heretofore rendered, and within one year after a judgment

‘hereafter rendered.

§ 1163. The appealallowed by the fourth chapter of this title,
must be taken within sixty days after written notice of the judgment or order shall have been given to the party appealing.

§ 1164. The appellant must furnish the court with copies of '

the notice of appeal, and of the order or judgment roll. If he
fail to do so, the appeal may be dismissed.

CHAPTER 11.

APPEALS TO THE COURT OF APPEALS.

§ 1166. An appeal may be taken to the court of appeals, in the

‘ cases mentioned in section 28.

§ 1166. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, a written‘ undertaking must be executed, on the part of the appellant,
by at least two sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay

all’ damages, costs and charges, which may be awarded against
him on the appeal, not exceeding two hundred and hfty dollars;
or that sum must be deposited with the clerk, with whom the
judgment or order was entered, to abide the event of the appeal.

But such undertaking or deposit may be waived by a written
consent on the part of the respondent. '

§ 1167. If the appeal be from a judgment directing the paymentof money, it does not stay ‘the execution of the judgment,
unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of. the appellant, by at least twosureties, to the eifect that if the appeal

' be dismissed, or the‘j udgment appealed from,or any part thereof,

be afiirmed, the appellant will pay the amount directed to be
paid by the judgment, or the part of such amount as to which.

the judgment shall be affirmed, if it be ailirmed only in part, and
all damages which shall be awarded against the appellant, upon
the appeal. '

§ 1168. If the judgment‘ appealed from, direct the assignment
or delivery of documents, or. personal property, the execution
of the judgment is not stayed by appeal unless the things requlred to be assigned or delivered, be brought into court, or
placed in the custody of such officer or receiver as the court may

appoint, or unless an undertaking be entered into, on the part of ’

the appellant, by at least two sureties, and in such amountas the
court or a judge thereof, or county judge may direct, to the effect

that the appellant will obey the judgment or order of . the appel-1

late court, upon the appeal. ‘
§ 1169. If the judgment appealed from, direct the execution of
a conveyance, or other instrument, the execution of the judgment is not stayed by the appeal, until the instrument is exe- '

cuted and deposited with the clerk with Whom the judgment

is entered, to abide the judgment or order of the appellate court.
§ 1170. In the judgment appealed from, direct the sale or delivery of possession of real property, the execution of the same is not stayed, unless a written undertaking be executed on the
part of the appellant, with two sureties to the effect, that during

the possesion of such property by the appellant, he will not commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon, and that if

' the judgment be affirmed, he will pay the value of the use and

occupation of the property, from the time of the appeal until the
delivery of possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment, not exceeding a sum to be lined by a judge of the court by which the
judgment was rendered, and which must be specified in the un-_
dertaking. When the judgment is for the sale of mortgaged
premises, and the payment of a deficiency arising upon the sale
the undertaking must also provide for the payment of such deficiency. ‘ ,

§ 1171. Whenever an appeal is perfected, as provided by sections 1167, 1168, 1169, and 1170, it stays all further proceedings
in the court below, upon the judgment appealed. from, or upon
the matter embraced therein; but the court below ‘may proceed
upon any other matter included in the action, and not atfected
by thejudgment appealed from. And the court below may, in
its discretion, dispense with, or limit the security required by sections 1167, 1168, and 1170, when the appellant is an executor,
administrator, trustee, or other person acting in another’s right;
and may also in all cases, limit such security to an amount not
less than fifty thousand dollars.

§ 1172. The undertakings prescribed by sections 1166, 1167,
1168 and 1170, may be in one instrument'or several, at the option
of the appellant; and a copy, including the names and residence
of the sureties, must be served on the adverse party, with the

notice of appeal, unless a deposit is made as provided in section
1166 and notice thereof given. ' o a
§ 1173. An undertaking upon an appeal is of no eifect, unless

‘ it be accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties, that they are

each worth double the amount specified therein. The adverse
party may, however, except to the sutlioiency of the sureties,
within ten days after notice of the appeal; and unless they or
other sureties justify before a judge of the court below, or a
county judge, as prescribed by sections 684 and 685, within ten
days thereafter, the appeal must be regarded as if no such undertaking had been given. The justification must be upon a notice

‘ of_ not less than five days.

§ 1174. In the cases not provided for in sections 1167, 1168,
1169, 1170 and 1171, the perfecting of an appeal, by giving the

undertaking mentioned in section 1166, stays proceedings in the ,

court below, upon the judgment appealed from, except, that

where it directs the sale of perishable property, the court below
may order the property to be sold, and the proceeds thereof to be

deposited or invested, to abide the judgment of the appellate.

court. A
CHAPTER III.

_ APPEALS TO THE SUPREME COURT FROM AN INFERIOR COURT.

§ 1175. An appeal may be taken to the supreme court, from
the judgment gendered by a county court,'or by a city court.

§ 1176. Security must be given upon such appeal, in the same
manner, and to the same extent, as upon an appeal to the ‘court
of appeals.

§ 1177. Appeals in the supreme court must be heard at a
general term, either in the district embracing the county where

. the judgment or order appealed from was entered, or in a county

adjoining that county, except that where the judgment or order
was entered in the city and county of New-York, the appeal must
be heard in the first district. 

§ 1178. Judgment upon the appeal must be entered and docketed with the clerk in whose oihce the judgment roll is med.
When the appeal is heard in a county other than that where the

judgment roll is filed, the judgment..upon the appeal must be

certified to the clerk with whom the roll is nled,'to be there
entered and docketed. 

CHAPTER IV.

APPEALS IN run suaanmr.-couar, AND mrm: sUPnnIon‘coUn'r'A15D
counr or common pLus'or was our or nu-zw-roux, most A
sumac JUDGE, ro TI-IE icmurum ram.

§ 1179. In the supreme court, the superior court of the cityof
New-Y ork, and the court .of common pleas of the city of NewYork, ‘an appeal, upon the law, may be taken to the general term,
from a judgment entered upon the report of referees or’ the direction of a single judge of the same court, in all cases, and upon ’

the fact when the trial is by the court or referees. Such an appeal,
however, does not stay proceedings, unless security be given as
upon an appeal to the court of appeals, or unless the court or a
judge thereof so order, which ‘order may be made upon ‘such

terms as to security or otherwise, as may be just, such security
not to exceed the amount ‘required on an appeal to the court of

appeals. In the supreme court, the appeal must be heard in the

same manner as if it were an appeal from an inferior court; but
the decision at the general term upon the facts separately from
the law, is nnal. ‘ g ' '~ vi

§ 1180. in appeal may in like manner, and within the same
time,‘be taken from an order made at a special term, or by a single
judge of the same court, or a county or special county judge in
any stage of the action, including proceedings supplementary -to
execution, and may be thereupon reviewed in the following
cases: . .

1. When the order grants or refuses, continues or modines a

- provisional remedy : .

2. When it grants or refuses a new trial; or when it sustains
or overrules a demurrer: ' l

3. When it involves the merits of the action, or some part
thereof; or affects a substantial right: i

4. When the order in effect determines the action and prevents
a judgment from which an appeal may be taken: ‘

5. When the order is made, upon a summary appllcation in an
action after judgment, and a&‘ects a substantial right.

§ 1181. The last section includes an order made out of court
upon notice; but in such case, the order must be first entered
with the clerk. And for the purpose of an appeal, any party
affected by such order, may require it to be entered with the
clerk, and it must be entered accordingly.

CHAPTER. V.

Arrmu. ‘ro ‘rm; 0003'!‘ or common man or nu: crrv or xtw-voax,
on TO A comrrv oouar, raonian rnraruon oovnr. ’

§ 1182. Judgments in civil cases, rendered by justices’ courts,
and by the marine court of the city of New-York, may be reviewed, as prescribed by this chapter, and not otherwise.

§ 1183. When the judgment has been~rendere'd by the marine
court of the city of New—York, or by a justice’s court in that
city, the appeal must be to the court of common pleas of the city
of New-York; and when rendered by any of the other courts
mentioned in the last section, to the county court of the county
where the judgment was rendered. I . »

§ 1184. The appellant must, within twenty days after the
judgment, serve a notice of appeal stating the grounds upon
which the appeal is founded. If the judgment is rendered upon
process not personally served, and the defendant did» not appear,
he shall have twenty days after personal notice of the judgment
to serve the notice of appeal provided for in this and the next section. ’ . '

§ 1185. The notice of appeal must, within the same time, be
served on the justice personally, if living and within the county,
or on his clerk, if there be one, and on _the respondent personally,
or by leaving it at his residence -with some person of suitable age
and discretion, or, in case the respondent is not a resident of the
county, in the same manner on the attorney or agent, if any, who
-is a resident of such city or county, who appeared for him on
the trial, and the appellant must, at the time of the service of the
notice of appeal on the justice, pay to him the costs of the action
included in the judgment together with two dollars, costs of the
return, which shall be restored to him in case the judgment is

' reversed and be included in the judgment for costs on reversal.

1

§ 1186. If the appellant desire a stay of execution of the
judgment, he must give security as provided in the nextsentien.

§ 1187. The security must be a written undertaking,executed
by one or more sutiicient sureties, approved by the county judge,
-or by the court below; to the etfect, that if judgment be rendered
against the appellant, and execution thereon be returned unsatistied, in whole or in part, the sureties will pay the amount’ unsatisfied. - ‘

§ 1188. The delivery of the undertaking to the court below
stays the issuing of execution; or if it have been issued, the service
of a copy of the undertaking; certified by the court below, upon
the officer holding the execution, stays further proceedings

A thereon.

§ 1189. Where, by reason of the death of a justice, or his
removal trom the county, or any other cause, the undertaking on
the appeal cannot be delivered‘ to him, it must be filed with the
clerk of the appellate court, and notice thereof given to the
respondent, or his attorney or agent, as provided in section 1186,
and it shall, thereupon,have the same elfect as if delivered to the
justice. ,

§ 1190. When by reason of the death of a justice, or his absence
from the county, or any other cause, the notice of appeal cannot
be served as provided by §ll85, it may be served by leaving
the same with the clerk of the county. .

§ 1191. The court below must thereupon, after ten days, and
within thirty days after service of the notice of appeal, make a
return to the appellate court of the testimony, proceedings and
Judgment, and file the same, in the appellate court, and maybe
compelled to do so by the appellate court. But a justice is not
bound to make a return, unless the fee prescribed by the last section of this chapter be paid on service of the order.

§ 1192. If the return be defective, the appellate court may

direct a further or amended return, as often as may be necessary,
and may compel a compliance with its order.

§ 1193. When a justice of the’ peace, by Whom a judgment
ippealed from was rendered, shall have gone out of oiiice, or
remove;l to another county, before a return is made, he must,
nevertheless, make a return, in the same manner, and with -the

same etfect, as if he were still in oilice, and may in the same

.manner be compelled to do so.

§ 1194. If a justice of the peace-, whose judgment is appealed
from, die, become insane, or remove from the state, the appellate
court may examine witnesses on oath, respecting the facts of the
trial or judgment, and determine the appeal, as if the facts had

- been returned by the justice. If he shall have removed to another

county within the state, the appellate court may compel him to
make the return as if he were still within .the county’ where

judgment was rendered. ' .

§ 1195. If a return he made, the appeal may be brought to
hearing at a general term of the appellate court, upon a notice by
either party, of not less than eight days. It must be placed uponthe calendar and continue thereon without further notice, until

,tlna11y disposed of ; but if neither party bring it to a hearing be~ fore" the end of the second term, the court must dismiss the appeal,

- unless it continue the same, by special order, for cause shown.

§ 1196. The appeal whether heard on the affidavits or return,

‘ _ must be heard on the original papers ;.and‘no copy thereof need
' be furnished for the use of the court.

§ 1197. Upon -the hearing of the appeal, the appellate court

must give judgment upon the law and .the facts, according to the
justice of the case, without regard to technical errors or defects,

which do not eifect the merits. In case of a reversal, the court
may allow another action for the same cause In givingju'dgment the court may affirm or reverse the judgment of the court

below in whole or in part, and as to any or all the parties, and for errors of law or fact. If the appeal is founded on an error in fact
in the proceedings not atfecting the merits of the action, and not
within the knowledge of the justice, the court may determine the
alleged error in fact on affidavits, and may in its discretion inquire into and determine the same upon the examination of witnesses. If the defendant fail to appear before the justice, and it is
shown by the affidavits‘ served or otherwise, that manifest injustice has been done, and the defendant satisfactorily excuses his

- default, the court may in its discretion set aside or suspend the

judgment, and order a new trial before the same or any other
justice at such time and "place, and on such terms as the court

may deem proper. The parties must appear before the justice

according to the order of the court, and the same proceedings
must thereupon be had in the action ‘as on the return of a summons personally served.

§ 1198. To every judgment upon an appeal there must be an- _
nexed the affidavits or return on which it was heard, which must.

be filed with the clerk of the court, and constitute the judgment’.

roll. ' '
§ 1199. When upon a reversal, another action is allowed therights of the parties stand unaffected by the former action. If

another action be allowed, a concise statement of the reasons

therefore must be filed with the clerk.

§ 1200. If the judgment below, or any part thereof, be collected
and be afterwards reversed, the appellate court must order the
amount collected to be restored with interest from the time of collection. The order may be obtained upon proof of the facts made
at or after the bearing upon a previous notice of six days. '

§ 1201. If the judgment be affirmed costs must be. awarded tothe respondent. If it be reversed costs must be awarded to the
appellant. If it be atiirmed in part the costs or such part as to
the court shall seem just, may be awarded to either party. If,
upon an appeal, a recovery be had by one party, and costs be
awarded to the other, the appellate court must set off the one
against the other, and render judgment for the balance.

§ 1202. The following feesand costs, and no other, except fees
of ohicers, are allowed on appeals :

To the appellant, on reversal, fifteen dollars.

To the respondent, on atiirmance, twelve dollars.

To a justice of the peace, for his return, two dollars.

If the judgment appealed from be reversed in part, and affirmed
as to the residue, the amount of costs allowed to either party,
is such as the appellate court may award ,not exceeding ten dollars.

If the appeal be dismissed for want of prosecution, as provided
by section 1195, no costs are allowed to either party.

TITLE Xlll.

or run: urscmmaur-zovs raocnnomcs, rig own, actions, AND
GENERAL paovrsions.

CHAPTER II.

‘PROCEEDINGS AGAINST JOINT DEBTOBS, HEIRS, DEVISEIS, LEGATEEI
AND TENANT8 HOLDING UNDER A JUDGMENT DEBTOB.

§ 1203. When a judgment is recovered against one or more of
several persons, jointly indebted upon an obligation, by proceeding as provided in- section 625, those who were not originally
summoned to answer the complaint, may be summoned to show
cause why they should not be bound by the judgment, in the

1 same manner as if they had been originally summoned. .

§ 1204. In case of the death of a judgment debtor after judgment, the heirs, devisees, legatees or personal representatives of
the judgment debtor, or the tenants of lreallproperty, owned by
him and affected by the judgment, may be summoned to show
cause why the judgment should, not be enforced, against the
estate of the judgment debtor in their hands respectively. The
proceedings thereon are subject to the provisions of the chapter

upon actions by or against executors, administrators, legatees, ‘

heirs and devisees.

§ 1205. The summons provided in the last two sections, must
_be subscribed by the ~j udgment creditor, his representatives, or
attorney, describe the judgment, and require the person summoned, to show cause, within twenty days after the service of the ‘

summons; and must be served in the ‘same manner as the original

summons. _

§ 1206. The summons must be accompanied by an affidavit of
the person subscribing it, that the judgment has not been satished
to his knowledge, or information and belief, and must specify the
amount due thereon.

§ 1207. Upon such summons, the party summoned may answer
within the time speciiied therein, denying the judgment, or setting up any defense which may have arisen subsequently; and in
addition thereto, if he he proceeded against according to section‘
1203, he may‘ make, the same defense which might have been

originally made to the action, except the statute of limitations; if
he he proceeded against according to section 1204, he may make

the same defenw which he might have made to an action upon
the judgment.
§ 1208. The party issuing the summons, may reply to the

answer, if a counterclaim be set up therein, and the issuemay T

be tried and judgment may be given, in the same manner as in
an action, and enforced by execution, or the application of property charged, to the payment of the judgment, may, if necessary,
be compelled by attachment. . .

§ 1209. The answer and reply must be verified in the same

. manner, and are subject to the same rules, as. the answer and

reply in an action.

CHAPTER 11.

OFFER 01-‘ THE DEFENDANT TO COMPROMISE THE WHOLE OR A PART ‘

OF THE ACTION.

§ 1210. The defendant may, at any time before the trial or

' judgment, serve upon the pl_aintiii‘, an oftlr to allow judgment to be
taken against him, for the sum or property, or to the effect therein
specified. If the plaintiff accept the oti'er, and give notice thereof,
within ten days, he may file the summons, complaint and offer,
with an affidavit of notice of acceptance, and the clerk must
thereupon enter judgment accordingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is to be deemed withdrawn, and can- ..

not be given in evidence, and if the plaintifff fail to obtain a more
favorable judgment, he cannot recover costs, but must pay the

defendant’s costs, from the time of the offer.
§ 1211. In an action for the recovery of money only, the de{endant may, with his answer, serve upon the plaintifff an otfer in

writing, that if he fail in his defense, the amount of the recovery »

be assessed at a specified’ sum; and if the plaintifff signify his
acceptance thereof in writing, with or before thenotice of trial,
and on the trial have a ‘verdict, the amount must be assessed
accordingly.

§ 1212. If the plaintih‘ do not accept the offer, he must prove
the amount to be recovered, as if the offer had not been made,
‘Dd’ cannot be permitted to give it in evidence. And if the

amount assessedln his favor do not exceed the sum mentioned in
the oifer, the defendant may recover his expenses, incurred in
consequence of any necessary preparation or defense in respect to

the question of amount. Such expense must be ascertained at
the trial.

CHAPTER III-.

ADMISSION OR INSPECTION OF WRITINOS.

§ 1213. Either party may exhibit to the other, or to his attorney, at any time before the trial, any document or paper, material to
the action, and request an admission in writing of its genuineness.
If the adverse party or his attorney fail to give the admission,
within four days after the request, and if the party exhibiting the

document or paper, be afterwards put to expense, in order to
prove its genuineness, and the samebe finally proved or admitted

on the trial, such expense to be ascertained at the trial, must be
paid by the party refusing the admission; unless it appear to the
satisfaction of the court, that there were good reasons for the
refusal.

§ 1214. The court before which an‘ action is pending, or a judge
thereof, or if the action be in the supreme court, a county judge,
may order either party to give to the other, within a specified

time, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy, of any
book, document or paper in his possession, or under his control,
containing evidence relating to the merits of the action, or the defense therein. - If compliance’ with the order be refused, the
court may exclude the book, document or paper from being given
in evidence, or if wanted as evidence by the party applying, may
direct the jury to presume it to be such as he alleges it to be;
and the court may also punish the party refusing. This section
is not to be construed to prevent a party from compelling another

to produce books, papers, or documents, when he is examined as
a witness. '

CHAPTER IV.

MOTIONS AND ORDERS.

§ 1215. Every direction of a court or judge, made or entered
in writing, and not_ included in a judgment, is denominated an
order. 

§ 1216. An application for an order is a motion.

§ 1217. All motions may be made to the court at a special
term, except upon appeals. Motions may likewise be made to a
judge out of court, as provided in other parts of this code. ‘"

§ 1218. Motions must be madewithin the district in which the
action is triable, or in a county adjoining that in which it is triable, except that where the action is triable in thektirst judicial
district, the motion must be made therein, and no motion can be
made ‘in the nrst district in an action triable elsewhere; but
orders made out of court, without notice, may be made by any
judge of the court, in any part of the state; and if the action be

inithe supreme court they may also be made by a county judge
of the county where the action is triable, except to stay proceedings after a verdict. No order to stay proceedings for a longer
time than twenty days can be granted by a judge out of court,
except upon previous notice to the adverse party.

§ 1219. When a notice of a motion is necessary, it must ‘be
served eight days before the time appointed for the hearing,except
that when the parties or their attorneys reside in the same city or
town, it may be four days; but the court or judge may, by an
order to show cause, prescribe a shorter time. And when a provisional remedy has been granted or. taken without notice, a

motion to vacate or modify it shall have preference over all other
business, except a trial or argument already begun.

§ 1220. In an action in the supreme court, a county judge, in
addition to the powers conferred upon him by this code, may
exercise, within his county, the powers of a judge of the supreme
court out of court as provided in section 210. And in all cases
where an order is made by a county judge, it may be reviewed in
the same manner,as if it had been made by a judge of the supreme
court.

§ 1221. When a notice of a motion is given, or an order to
show cause provides for a motion, before a judge out of court,
and at the time fixed» for the motion he is unable to hear it, the
name may be transferred, by his order, to some other judge, before whom the motion might originally have been made.

§ 1222. Whenever an order for the payment of a sum of money

is made by a court, pursuant to a provision of this code, the same
may be enforced by execution, in the same manner as if it were

a judgment, except that the person cannot be arrested unless
specially directed in the order, nor can real property be sold
thegzon, except in the cases where the same is by law a charge
upon real property.

§ 1223. Upon ti motion any person present in court, whose alii- .
davit or deposition would be admissible thereupon, may be orally
examined. ’

§ 1224. When the answer of the defendant admits part of the
plaintitT’s claim to be just, the court, on motion, may order,snch

defendant to satisfy that part of the claim, and may enforce the
order, as it enforces a provisional remedy. e

CHAPTER V.

NOTICES, AND FILING AND SERVICE OF PAPERS. ‘

§ 1225. Notices must be in writing, and notices and other pa-_
pers may be served on the party or attorney, in the manner prescribed in the next three sections, where not otherwise provided
by this code.

§ 1226. The service may be personal or by delivery to the
party or attorney on whom the service is required to be made, or
it may be as follows:

'1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence
from his office, by leaving the paper with his clerk therein, or
with a person having charge thereof; or when there is no person

in the office by leaving it, between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening, in a conspicuous place in the office,

or if it be not open so as to admit of such service, then by leaving
it at the attorney’s residence, with some person of suitable age

T and discretion.

2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the paper at his
residence, between the hours of six in the morning and nine in
the evening, with some person of suitable age and discretion.

§ 1227. Service by mail may be made where the person making
the service and the person on whom it is to be made reside in

'different places, between which there is a regular communication

by mail.

§ 1228. In case of service by ‘mail, the paper must be deposited
in the post office, addressed to the person on whom it is to be
served, at his place of residence, and the postage paid. . And in

snehr case the time of service must be increased one day for every iifty miles distance between the place of the deposit and the’place

of the address. .
§ 1229. A defendant appears in an action when he answers,

demurs, or gives the plaintifff written notice of his appearance.

' After appearance, otherwise than by answer, a defendant is entitled to notice of all subsequent proceedings, in the same manner as if he had answered. But where a defendant has not appeared service of notice or papers, in the ordinary proceedings in
an action need not be made upon him, unless he be imprisonedfor want of bail. , .

§ 1230. Where a plaintiii‘ or a defendant who has appeared
resides out of the State, and has no attorney in the action, the
service may be made by mail, if his residence be known, if not
known on the clerk for him. But where a party has an attorney

in the action, ‘the service of papers must be upon the attorney
instead of the party. .

§ 1231. The foregoing provisions of this chapter do not apply
to the service of a summons or other ‘process, or of any paper to
bring a party into contempt. _ .

§ 1232. A notice or other paper is valid and e&‘ectual though
the title of the. action in which it is made be omitted, or be defective either in respect to the court or parties, if it intelligibly
refer to such action or proceeding, and, in furtherance of justice,
upon proper terms, any other defect ‘or error in any notice or
other paper or proceeding may be amended by the court, and any

mischance relieved within one year thereafter. ‘
§ 1233. The various undertakings required to be given by this

code, and the affidavits and other written proceedings in an ac‘ion, must be filed or entered in court, or with the clerk thereof,
unless the court expressly provide for a different disposition
thereof, except that the undertakings provided for by the chapter
on the claim and delivery of personal property, must, after the

justiiication of the sureties, be delivered by the sheriff to the .

parties respectively, for whose benefitthey are taken. The summons and the several pleadings in an action must be filed with
the clerk within ten days after the service thereof, respectively,

or the adverse party, on proof of the omission, is entitled, with—out notice, to an order from a judge that the same be filed within
, a timespecfiled in the order, or be deemed abandoned.

CHAPTER IX.

GENERAL PROV IIION S .

§ 1234. If an original pleading or paper be lost or withheld by

: any person, the court may authorize a copy thereof to be filed
and used instead of the original.

§ 1235. Successive actions may be maintained upon the same
contract or transaction, whenever after the former action a new

cause of action arises therefrom.‘
§ 1236. ' Whenever two or more actions are pending at one time, ‘

between the same parties, and in the same court, upon causes of

action which might have been joined, the court may order the
actions to be consolidated into one. ‘

§ 1237. An action is deemed to be pending from the time of its
commencement, until its final determination upon appeal, or until
the time for an appeal has passed, and the judgment has been

' satisfied.

§ 1238. An action may be brought by one person against
another, for the purpose of determining an adverse claim, which
‘the latter makes againstthe former, for money or property, upon
an alleged obligation ; and also against two or more persons, for
the purpose of compelling one to satisfy a debt due to the other,

for which the plaintifff is bound as surety.
§ 1239. No natural person is subject to the jurisdiction of a

-court‘of this state, unless he appear in the court, or be found
within the state, or be a resident thereof, or have property therein; and in the last case only to the extent of such property at
the time the jurisdiction attached.

§ 1240. No corporation is subject to the jurisdictionfof a court
of this state, unless it appear in the court, or have been created
by, or under the laws of this state, or have an agency established

-therein for the transaction of some portion of its business, or have
property therein, and in the last case only to the extent of such

property at the time the jurisdiction attached.
§ 1241. When the court has jurisdiction of the parties, it may

exercise it, in respect to any cause of action, wherever arising,

except for the specinc recovery of real property, situated out of

this state, or an injury thereto, and except also as provided in section 979.

§ 1242. When a cause of action has arisen in a sister state, or

' in a foreign country, and by the laws thereof, an action thereon

cannot there be maintained against a person by reason of the.
lapse of time, an action thereon cannotbe maintained against him 1
in this state, except in favor of a citizen thereof, who has had the
cause of action from the time it accrued. T.
§ 1243. The clerk must keep, among the records of the court, ‘
a register of actions. He must enter therein the title of the action, wlth brief notes under it, from time to time, of all papers
filed, and proceedings had therein.

§ 1244. When there are three referees, all must meet, but two
of them may do any act which might be‘ done by. all; and when-'
ever any authority is conferred on three or more persons, it may
be exercised by a majority, upon the meeting of all, unless expressly otherwise provided by this code or by some other statute

§ 1245. The time within which an act is to be done, as herein
provided, must be computed by excluding the nrst day and including the last. If the last day be Sunday, it must be excluded. 

§ 1246. The publication of legal notices, required by law, or
by an order of a judge or court, to be published in a newspaper
once in each week for a specified number of weeks, must be made
on the first day of each week in which such newspaper is published; and if required to be published oftener than once ineach
week, the second publication must be made on Thursday of each
week, or if the paper be not issued and published on Thursday,
then on any other day in the week on which such paper is issued.
And in all cases where a_ municipal corporation is required to
publish legal notices, and may designate the papers in which the
publication is to be made, it must make such designation annually by ordinance, for one year, and after such designation,all such

legal notices must be published in the papers so designated. _ ,
The time for publication of. legal notices must be computed so
as to exclude the first day of publication, and to include the day

on which the act or event of which notice is given is to happen ,
or which completes thefull periodrequired for publication.

§ 1247. Nocounsel can be permitted to‘ speak on thefargumen-t '
oi‘ any case more than two hours without the special leave of the
court, granted before the argument begins. I

§ 1248. A personwbo knowingly without probable‘ cause prosecutes an action or makes a defense, or {takes any legal proceeding against another, is guilty of a contempt, and is also liable
to an action therefore at the suit of the'°pa'rty' aggrieved. ,_ ‘ , '

§ 1249. Rights of action, given or secured by existing laws,‘
maybe prosecuted in the manner provided by this code. If a’
 ever arise in which an action forwtheienforcelment or protection of a right, or the redress or'prev'ei1tion of a "wrong, cannot be.
liad under this code, the practice heretofore inguselniay b‘eIadopted, so far asmay be necessary to prevent a faiiureof justice.

 XIV.
PROV 181058. BESPECTING SUITS HIRETOIURE GONMENCED.

§ 1250. The provisions‘ of this code apply to future proceedings»
in actions or siiits heretofore commenced ‘and new pending, as’
follows, and not oth‘er'wise': ~ ‘

1. If there have been no pleading therein, to the pleadings and
all sub'seq'uent'proceedings : '

2. When there is an issue of law or of fact, or ally other ques-C
tion of fact to be tried, to the trial and subseqhent prbceedinigs :

3. After a judgment or order to the‘ "proceedings to enforce,’
vacate, modify or reverse it including the costs of an appeal.

§ 1251. Whenever the judges of the supreme court, in any disi
trict, iind that the court at any term or circuit, has not been or

will not be able to dispose of all the cases upon the calendar, it
shall be their duty to request the governor to assign pther judges,

and if necessary appoint extraordinary terms and circuits for the
purpose of disposing of such cases. The governor‘ must thereupon make such assignment, and the judges assigned must hold
the courts accordingly. ‘This provision shall‘ last so long as_any
of the actions and suits now pending remain undetermined.


§ 1252. The party prosecuting a special proceeding, may be
known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

§ 1253. A judgment in a special proceeding is the final determination of the rights of the parties therein. The dehnitions
of a motion and an order in a civil action are applicable to similar

acts in a special proceeding.


CHAPTER I. s'rur:_ wan-s IN onnnnn.

§ 1254. The writs heretofore known as prerogative writs, so far
as they are hereafter to be recognized, shall be denominated state
writs; They are issued, out of the supreme court at the instance

of the state, sometimes on behalf of’ private persons, for the P203

tection of private rights, and sometimes for purposes of state.

They are issued in the name of the people, under the seal‘ 01! the
court, and the signature of the clerk. A
§ 1255. When issued on behalf of a private person, suchpen-.
son must be nzrmedas a party in the proceedings jointly with the
people
§ 1256. These writs, four in number, are defined and regulated
in this title in the following order: ~ '

1. The writ of review of inferior jurisdictions:
2. The writ of mandate:
.3. The writ of assessment of damages‘:
4. The writ of deliverance from imprisonment, or habeas corpus.
The writ of quo warranto, the writ of scire facias, and writ of
prohibition, are abolished. ’ _
§ 1257. The allowance of the writ of review, the writ of mandate, and the writ of assessment, rests in the sound discretion of
the court. The writ of deliverance, when regularly applied for,
cannot be refused. ‘ ‘
§ 1258. The application for a state writ must be made to the

supreme court, at a special term, except as provided in the next section.

§ 1259. The writ of deliverance from imprisonment, or habeas

corpus, may be allowed, not only by the supreme court at a special
term, but, out of court, by a judge of the supreme court, a judge

‘of the superior court of the city of New-York, a judge of the

court of common pleas of the city of N ew-York, a county judge,
or the city judge of the city of N ew-York.

§ 1260. After the allowance of the writ of deliverance, all the
proceedings thereon, to the judgment inclusive, are had in the
supreme court. But the orders and judgment, respectively, may
be entered, in the manner herein after provided, upon the certihcate out of court, of any judge designated in the last section.

CHAPTER II.

THE WRIT OF REVIEW OF INFERIOR JURISDICTION. «

§ 1261. The writ of certiorari, whether at common law or by
statute, shall hereafter be known as the writ of review of inferior
jurisdictions.

§ 1262. The writ of review must command the defendant to
certify fully to the supreme court, at a specified time and place,
and annex to the writ, a transcript of the record and proceedings
(describing or referring to them, with convenient certainty), that
the same may be reviewed by the supreme court; and requiring
the party, in the mean time, to desist from further proceedings
in the matter to be reviewed.

§ 1263. If a stay of proceedings be: not intended, the words
requiring the stay, may be omitted from the writ. These ‘words
may be inserted, or omitted, in the sound discretion of the court.

§ 1264. The eifect of the writ is to remove, not the record, but
the transcript thereof; thereforee, the power of the inferior court
or oiiicer is not suspended-, nor the proceedings stayed, unless an
order to that effect be inserted in the writ. . 

§ 1265. The writ may be granted, wherever specially authorized by this code, and also in all cases where an inferior tribunal,
board, or officer, exercising judicial functions, is alleged to have
exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal, board, or officer; and

where there is no appeal, nor, in the judgment of the court, any
other plain, speedy and adequate remedy. '

§ 1266. Except where otherwise expressly provided by this
code or another statute, the review upon this writ cannot be extended further, than to determine whether the inferior tribunal, ~

board, or oiiicer, has regularly pursued the authority of such
tribunal, board or officer.

§ 1267. The writ may be directed to such tribunal, board, or
officer, or to any other person having the custody of the record
or proceedings to be certified. .

§ 1268. The motion for the writ must be’ made upon affidavit,
and the court may require a notice of the application to be given
to the adverse party, or may grant an order to shew cause why

it should not be allowed, or may grant the writ without notice.
§ 1269. The allowance of the writ must be endorsed thereon,

signed by the judge granting it, and the writ must be served in '

the same manner, as a summons in a civil action, except where
otherwise expressly provided.

§ 1270. If the return to the writ be defective, the court may

order a further return to be made. When a full return has been
made, the court must proceed to hear the parties, or such of them
as may attend for that purpose, and may thereupon give judgment, either affirming or annulling the proceedings below. 

§ 1271. A copy of the judgment, signed by the ‘clerk, entered
upon, or attached to, the writ and return, constitute the judgment
roll. From the judgment, an appeal may be taken to the general
term, and thence to the court of appeals, in the same manner
and upon the same terms, as from a judgment in a civil. action.

CHAPTER 111. ‘

-nu‘. wax-r or mmnsrn.
§ 1272. The writ, -heretofore known as .the writ of mandamus,

-" shall be hereafter denominated the writ of mandate. Such writ .

is defined and regulated as in this chapter prescribed.
§ 1273. It may be issued to any inferior tribunal, corporation,
board, or -person, to compel the performance of an act, which

’ the law specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from an oiiice, trust,

‘or station. But though it- may require an inferior tribunal to
exercise its judgment, or proceed to the discharge of any of its
functions, it cannot control judicial discretion.

§ 1274. This writ ‘ought not to be issued, in any case where

there is a plain, speedy and adequate remedy, in the ordinary
course of the law. It is issued, on the information of the party
beneficially interested. ‘
§ 1275. The writ is either alternative or peremptory. The
alternative writ. must state concisely the facts showing the obligation of the defendant to perform the act, and his omission. to
perform it, and command him, that immediately after the receipt

= of the writ, or at some other specified time, he do the act required

to be performed, or show cause before the supreme court, at a
specified time and place, why he has not done so; and thathe
then and there return the writ, with his certihcate of having

done as he is commanded. The peremptory writ must be in a
similar form, except that the words requiring the defendant to

show cause why he has not done as commanded, mustbe omitted.

§ 1276. When the right to require the performance of the .act
is clear, and it is. apparent that no valid excuse can be given
for not performing it, a peremptory mandate may be allowed in
the first instance. In all other cases, the alternative writ must
be first issued.

§ 1277. The motion for the writ,the allowance, and the service
thereof, and the enforcement of obedience thereto, must be in the

same manner, as in case of the writ of review. ‘
§ 1278. On the return day of the alternative writ, or such

further day as the court may allow, the party, on whom the writ

shall have been served, may show cause, by answer made, in the
same manner as an answer to a complaint in a civil action.

§ 1279. If no hnswer be made, a peremptory mandate must be '

allowed against the defendant. If an answerbemade, containing
new matter, the same shall not in any respect conclude the plaintifff, who may on the trial or other proceedings avail himself of
any valid ohijection to its sufficiency, or may countervail it'by
proof, either in direct denial or by way of avoidance. .
§ 1280. No other pleading, ‘or written allegation, is allowed
than the writ and answer. These‘ are the pleadings in the case,

.and have the same effect, and are to be construed and may be

amended, in the same manner, as pleadings ina civil action, and
the issues thereby joined must be tried, and the further‘prooeedings thereon had in the same’ manner, as in a civil action. ’
§ 1281. Issues joined in the case, must be tried in the county
where the material facts set forth in the mandate are alleged to_

have occurred.

§ 1282. If judgment be given for the plaintifff, he shall recover
the damages which he shall have sustained, to be ascertained by
the court or a jury, or by referees," as in a civil action, together
with costs and charges; and a peremptory mandate must also
be awarded without delay.
§ 1283. A recovery of damages by virtue of this chapter,
against a party, who shall have made a return to a writ of mandate, is a bar to any other action against the same party, for the
making of such return.
§ 1284. Whenever a peremptory mandate is directed to a public oiiicer, body, or board, commanding the performance of any
public duty, specially enjoined by law, if it appear to the court
that such officer, or" any member of such body, or board, has,
without just excuse, refused or neglected to perform the duty so
enjoined, the court may impose a line, not exceeding two hundred
and hfty dollars, upon every such officer or member of such
body or board. Such fine, when collected, must be paid into the
treasury; and the payment thereof is a bar to an action, for any,
penalty incurred by such officer or member of such body or board,
by reason of his refusal or neglect to perform the u y so enjoined.

CHAPTER IV.

rm: wnrr or ASSESSMENT or namacms.

§ 1286. The writ heretofore known -as the writ of ad quod damnum, shall be hereafter denominated the writ of assessment of
damages. '

§ 1286. Whenever the governor of this state is authorized by
law to take possession of real property, within this state, for the
use of the people of the state, and he cannot agree with the owner
for the purchase thereof, he mustcause application to be made
for a writ of assessment, which shall thereupon be issued to the
sheriff of the county, where such real property is situated, unless
the court direct such damages to be assessed by a jury of another
pounty, commandinghim to summon a jury to inquire whether
the owners of the property, describing it, will sustain any, and
what damage, by the taking of the property for the use of the
state. .
§ 1287. Upon such writ being delivered to the sheriff, he must
give at least three weeks notice of the time and place of executing the same by publishing a notice thereof in a newspaper printed in his county. - 

§ 1288. The sheriti‘ must summon twelve qualiiied jurors in his
county, to attend at such time and place, and must then and‘
there administer to each of the jurors an oath, that he will diligently inquire, concerning the matter‘ specified in the writ, and
will give a true verdict, according to the best of his judgment.

§ 1289. After the jury shall have been duly sworn, they must
proceed to view the property specified in the writ, and having
heard the evidence oHered, and duly considered the value of the
property, they must assess the damages which the owner, or if
there be several, which the respective owners, will sustain by
being deprived thereof. They must make an inquisition signed
by themselves, and by the sheriff, in which they must set forth
the names of the several owners of the property, and the rights
of each owner respectively, so far as the same can be ascertained
by them, together with the amount to be paid therefore by the
people of this state, and to whom particularly; which inquisition

the sherirmust forthwith return, together with the writ, to the
supreme court. '
§ 1290. The court must examine the inquisition, and if the

same be partial or defective, may set the same aside, either wholly
or in part, and may direct a new inquisition to be taken, to supply such defect.

§ 1291. Whenever the writ appears to have been duly executed, an order must be entered, declaring that the people of this
state, on paying to the owner or into the supreme court, the
amount assessed in the inquisition for damages, and also the costs
and charges of the proceedings, shall be entitled to an absolute
estate in such real’ property, as fully and effectually, as if the

same had been conveyed to the people by the owner thereof; and
immediately after the payment of such amount, the absolute title
to such real property shall be invested in the people of this state.
§ 1292. The amount which may be neceesary to pay the damages assessed, and the costs and expenses incurred under the provisions of this chapter, must be paid out of the treasury. '

§ 1293. Upon the damages so assessed being paid into the supreme court, the court must make an order for the investment
thereof and of the interest thereon, in permanent securities, for
the benefit of the owners of the property taken, and must cause

such securities to be transferred to them, or the amount of the
money paid over to them, their guardians or legal representatives,

whenever their rights are established.

§ 1294. Such owners may, at any time, apply to the supreme
court, for the payment to them of such money, or the transfer of
such securities: and such proceedings must be had thereon, as
are necessary to ascertain the respective rights of the applicants,
and to give" notice to all persons who may be interested in the
property taken, or in the money paid into court.

§ 1295. Whenever any real property shall be taken for the use
of the United States, by the consent of the legislature of this state,
and it becomes necessary to issue a writ of assessment, the like
proceedings must be had, as are provided in this chapter.

CHAPTER V.

THE WRIT OF DELIVERANCE IRON IMPBISONMENT.

§ 1296. The writ of habeas_corpus ad subjiclendum,‘known in

the constitution and statutes of ‘this state as the writ of habeas

corpus, is herein designated, and may hereafter be known, as the
writ of deliverance from imprisonment. Every other writ of
habeas corpus is abolished.

§ 1297. Every person, imprisoned or restrained of his liberty,
within this state, for any criminal or supposed criminal matter, or
under any pretense whatsoever, except in the cases specified in
the next section, may prosecute a writ of deliverance, according
to the provisions of this chapter, to inquire into the cause of such
imprisonment or restraint; and it‘ illegal, to be delivered therefrom. A

§ 1298. The following persons are not entitled to prosecute the
writ:

1. Persons committed or detained by virtue of process issued
by a court of the‘United States, or a judge thereof, in cases where
such courts or judges have exclusivej urisdiction, under the laws
of the United: States, or have acquired exclusive jurisdiction by
the commencement of suits in such courts: '

2. Persons committed or detained by virtue of the judgment
of a competent tribunal, of civil or criminal jurisdiction, or by
virtue of an execution issued upon such judgment, but no order
of commitment for contempt, is to be deemed a judgment nor a
warrant or other process, issued upon such an order, an execution,
within the meaning of this section. ‘

§ 1299. Application for ‘the writ must be made in writing,
signed, either by the party for whose relief it is intended, or by
some person in his behalf, as follows: 1 ‘

1. To the supreme court at__a specialterm:

2. To any one of the_.judges.of the supreme court, or any
county judge, being or residing in the county where the party is
detained: or, if there be no such officer Within the county, or
If he be absent, or for any cause incapable of acting, or have
refused to grant the writ, then to such officer residing in an adjoining county:

3. In .the city and c9un'ty,ot‘,New-'-York, to a judge of the superior court of the city of New-York, or a judge ofthe court of
common pleas,o£ the city of N ew-York, or the city judge of that
city.

§ 1300. Whenever application for the writ is made to an oilicer, not residing within the county wherethe party is detained,
he must require proo_f,.by the oath of the applicant, or by other
sumcient evidence before granting the writ, that there is no officer
in the county authorized to grant the writ, or if there be one that
he isabsent, or has refused . to grant it, or for some cause to be
specially set forth, is incapable of acting.

§ 1301. The application-must stat_e,’in substance,

I

1. That the party, in whose behalf the writ is applied for, is ,
imprisoned, or restrained of his liberty, the place where, and ~

othcer or person by whom ‘he .is.imprisoned or restrained,naming
both parties, if their names be known, or describing them, if not
known: .
2. That such person is not imprisoned for restrained, by virtue
of any order, judgment, or process, specified in section 1298:
3. The cause or pretense of such imprisonment or restraint,
° according to the best of the knowledge or belief of theapplicant:
4. If the imprisonment or restraint be in virtue of an order,
warrant, or process, a copy thereof must be.annexed,.or it must
be alleged that by reason of the removal or concealment of the
party before the application, a demand of such copy could not be
made, or such demand was made, and the legal fees therefore tendered to the person having the party in his custody, and that a
copy was refused :
5_. If the imprisonment- be alleged to be illegal, theapplication
must also state in what the alleged illegality consists :
6. It must he verilied by the oath of the applicant, to the etfec
that he believes it to be true. A '
§ 1302. Any court or judge, empowered to grant the writ, to
whom such application is presented, must grant the writ without
delay, unless it appear from the application itself, or from ,the
documents annexed, that the person applying therefore is,.by the
provisions of this chapter prohibited from prosecuting the writ.
§ 1303. The writ of deliverance mustcommand-.the defendant to prqduce the person imprisoned or restrained, by whatsoever name he may be called or charged, and certify and return
therewith the time and cause of his imprisonment or restraint,
before the supreme court at a specal term, to be held at a specified time and place, or before the judge allowing the writ, or another judge as provided in the next section, at a specified time
and place, or immediately after the receipt of the writ, to do and
receive what shall then and there be considered concerning the

person so imprisoned or restrained:
Or when, for the reason herein after mentioned, the body need

not be produced, the writ, instead of requiring the production of
the perspn, may require the defendant to certify and return, the
time and cause of the imprisonment or restraint.

§ 1304. If application for the writ be made to the supreme
court, or a judge thereof, in a county other than that where the

party is imprisoned, the writ may be made returnable before any
officer authorized to grant the writ, in the county of the imprisonment.

§ 1305. The writ must not be disobeyed for any defect of‘ form.

It is sufficient,

1. If the person, having the custody of the partyimprisoned or
restrained, be designated either by his name of office, if he have
any, or by his own name, or if both such names be unknown or
uncertain, he may be described by an assumed appellation; and
any one who may be served with the writ is to be deemed the
person to whom it was directed, although it may be directed to
him by a wrong name or description or —to another person: ,

2. If the person, who is directed to be produced, be designated
by name, or if his name be uncertain or unknown, he may be
described in any other way, so as to designate the person intended.

§ 1306. Whenever the supreme court, or a judge thereof, has
evidence from a judicial proceeding before such court or judge
that any person within the county where the court or judge may
be, is illegally imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, it is the
duty uf such court or judge to issue a writ of deliverance for his
relief, although no application be made for such writ.

§ 1307. The person on whom the writ is served must state in
his return, plainly and unequivocally,

1. Whether he have, or have not, the party in his custody or

power, or under his restraint :
2. If he have the party in his custody or power, or under his

restraint, the authority and true cause of -such imprisonment or
restraint, setting forth the same at large:

3. If the party be detained by virtue of a writ,Warrant, or other .

written authority, a copy thereof must be annexed to the return,‘
and the original must be produced and exhibited, on the return of the writ to the court or judge to whom the same is returnable : ‘ .

4. If the person on whom such writ shall have been served,
shall have had the party in his custody or power, or under his
restraint, at any time prior or subsequent to the date of the writ
but has transferred such custody or restraint to another, the return must state particularly to whom, at what time, for what
cause, and by what authority such transfer took place.

The return must be signed by the person making the same,
and, except where he is a sworn public oiiicer, and makes his return in his official capacity, it must be verified by his oath.

§ 1308. If the writ of deliverance require it, the person or oilicer on whom the writ shall have been served, must also produce
the person in his custody or power, according to the command
of the writ, except in the case of the sickness of such party, as
provided in section 1322.

§ 1309. If the person, on whom the writ shall have been duly
served, refuse or neglect to obey the same, by producing the party
named therein, and making a full and explicit return thereto,
within the time required, and no suiiicient excuse be shown’ therefore, it is the duty of the court or judge, before whom the writ was
returnable, upon proof of the service thereof, forthwith to issue a
warrant of arrest against such person, directed to the sheriff of
any county within this state, and commanding him forthwith to
arrest such person and to bring him before the court or judge;
and on his being so brought, he must be committed to close custody, in the jail of the county, without being allowed the liberties
thereof, until he makes return to the writ, and complies with any
order that may be made in relation to the person, for whose relief
the writ was issued.

§ 1310. If a sheriff shall have neglected to return the writ, the
warrant may be directed to-the coroner, or any other person designated*the‘rein, who shall haveiull power-‘to execute the same;
and the sheriff, upon being brought up, may be comntittedto ‘the

. jail of any county other than his own.

§ 1311. The court or judge, by whom the‘ warrant is issued,
may also, at the same time, or afterwards, issue‘ a precept ‘to the
sheriff,'or other person to whom the warrant was directed, commanding him, to bring forthwith.‘the party for whose benent the '
writ of deliverance was granted ; and he shall thereafter remain
in the custody\of such sheriff or person, until discharged or remanded.
§ 1312. The court or judge, before whom the party is brought,

on the writ of deliverance, must immediately, after the return
thereof, examine into the facts contained in the return, and into‘
the cause of the imprisonment or restraint of the party, whether
the same shall have been upon commitment for any criminal, or
supposed criminal, matter or not. T

§ 1313. If no legal cause be shown for the imprisonment‘ or
restraint, or for the continuance thereof, the party ‘must be discharged from the custody or restraint under which he is held.

§ 1314. The party must be forthwith remanded, if ' it appear
that he is detained in custody: x

1. By virtue of process issued by a court or judge of the United
States‘, in a" case where such courtor judge has exclusive jurisdiction: .

2. By virtue of the judgment, of a competent court of civil or
criminaljurisdiction, or of an execution issued upon such judgment; or

3. By virtue of a warrant of commitment for a contempt, specially and plainly charged therein ,'and issued by a court, oilicer
or body, having authority to commit for the contempt so charged,
and .

4. That the time, during which such party may be legally detained, has not expired.

§ 1315. If it appear on the return, that the party is in custody

by virtue of an order‘ or civil process, from a- court legally con»
stituted, or issued by an oiiicer in the course of judicial proceedings before him, authorized by law, the party can be discharged
in one of the following cases only: . , i

1. Where thejurisdiction of such court or oiiicer has been exceeded, eitheras to matter, place, sum‘, or person : '

2. Where, although the originalimprisonment was lawful, yet“
by some subsequent act, omission, or event, the party has become
entitled to his discharge:

3. Where the order or process is defective in some matter of
substance required by law, rendering it void:

4. Where the order or process, though in proper form, has’

been issued in a case not allowed by law :
5. Where the person having the custody of the ‘prisoner under

such order or process, is not the person empowered by law to"
detain him; or

6. Where the order or process is not authorized by a judgment,‘
or order of a court, or by any provision‘ of law.

§ 1316. But no court or judge, on the return of a writ of deliverance, has power to inquire into the legality or justice of any’
order, judgment, or process, specified in section 1298, nor into“
the justice or propriety of any commitment for a contempt made’
by a court, oihcer, or body, according to law, and charged in such
commitment, as provided in this code. ’ ‘

§ 1317. If it appear that the party has been legally committed
fora criminal ofence, or if he appear by the testimony offered
with the return, or upon the hearing thereof, to be guilty of such’an ofence, although the commitment be irregular, he may be
forthwith remanded to the custody, or placed under the restraint’
from which he was taken, if the person under whose custody or
restraint he was be legally entitled thereto; if not so entitled, he
must be committed to the custody of the officer or person so‘ entitled.

§ 1318. Until judgment be given upon the return the party
may be either committed to the custody of the she;-ii!‘ of the

county or placed in such care or under such custody as his age
and other circumstances may require.

§ 1319. When it appears from the return to the writ that the

party is in custody on an order or process, under which another
person has an interest in continuing his imprisonm'ent~or restraint,

no order can be made for his discharge until the party so interested, or his attorney, has had the same notice of the return as is
required to be given of motions in the supreme court.

§ 1320. When it appears from the return that the party is detained upon a criminal accusation, the court or judge can make
no order for his discharge until sufficient notice of the return is
given to the district attorney of the county where the party is ,
detained. ‘

§ 1321. The party produced, on the return of a writ of deliverance, may deny any of the material facts set forth in the re-.

turn, or may allege any fact to show either that his imprisonment
or restraint is unlawful, or that he is entitled to his discharge,

which allegation or denial must be on oath, and thereupon the

court or judge must proceed, in a summary way, to hear such
evidence as may be produced in support of the imprisonment or
detention or against the same, and to dispose of the party as the

justice of the case may require.
§ 1322. Whenever, from the sickness or infirmity of the party,

he cannot, without danger, be produced, the person in whose
custody he is may state that fact in his return to the Writ, verifying the same by his oath; and, if satisfied of the truth of the
allegation, and the return be otherwise sufficient, the court or
judge must proceed'to decide on the return, and'to dispose of the

matter in the same manner as if the party had been produced.
§ 1323. Whenever an application is made for‘a writ of deliverance, according to the provisions of this chapter, if it appear, upon

the face of the application, that the cause or offense for which
the person is imprisoned or restrained is not bailable. the production of the party may be dispensed with, though such production be asked, and the writ be issued accordingly.

§ 1324. If it appear that the party detained is illegally imprisoned or, restrained of his liberty, judgmentmust be given
that he be forthwith discharged; otherwise, the application must:
be dismissed.

§ 1325. Notwithstanding the issuing of the writ of deliverance
without requiring the production of the person, the court or

judge before whom the same was returnable may, before final decision, issue a new writ, requiring the production of the person.

§ 1326. Obedience to a judgment for the discharge of a person

restrained of his liberty, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, may be enforced by the court or judge, by proceedings for a
contempt, in the same manner and, with the same effect as for a
neglect to make return to a writ of deliverance ; and the person
found guilty of such disobedience shall forfeit to the party»aggloved one thousand dollars in addition to any special damages
which he may have sustained. ’

§ 1327. No sheriff or other officer is liable to a civil action for
obeying such judgment of discharge.

§ 1328. No person, who has been discharged upon a writ of
deliverance, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, can be
again imprisoned, restrained, or kept in custody, for the same
cause ; but it is not to be deemed the same cause :

1. If he have been discharged from a commitment on a criminal charge, and be afterwards committed for the same oifence, by
the legal order or process of the court, wherein he is bound, by
recognizance or undertaking, to appear, or in which he is indicted
or convicted for the same offense : or, "'

2. If, after a discharge for a defect of evidence, or for a material
defect in the commitment, in a criminal case, the party be again
arrested, on sufficient evidence, and committed by legal process,
for the same oifence: or, ‘ 3. If, in a civil action, the party have been discharged for any
illegality in the judgment or process, herein before specified, and
be afterwards imprisoned by legal authority, for the same cause
of action : or, —

4. If, in a civil action, he have been discharged from commitment on an order of arrest, and be afterwards committed on‘ execution, in the same action, or on an order of arrest in another
action, after such first action has been dismissed.

§ 1329. If any person, either solely or as a member of a court,
in the execution of a judgment, order, or process, knowingly reeommit, imprison, or restrain of his liberty, for the same cause,
except as provided in the last section, any person so discharged,
or knowingly direct or assist therein, he shall forfeit to the party
aggrieved one thousand dollars, and be also guilty of a misdemeanor. '

§ 1330. Any person, having in his custody or power, or under
his restraint, a party, who, by the provisions of this chapter, would
be entitled to a writ of a deliverance or for whose relief a writ of
deliverance has been issued, who, with intent to elude the service
of the writ, or to avoid the effect thereof, transfers the party to
the-custody, orplaees him under the power or control, of another,
or conceals or changes the place of ‘his confinement, is guilty of
a-Nsdemeanor. '

§ 1331. Every person who knowingly assists, in the violation
of the last section, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

§ 1332. Every person, convicted of an oifence under either of
the last four sections, may be punished by fine or imprisonment,
or both, in the discretion of the court, in which he is convicted ;
but such hue cannot exceed one thousand dollars, nor such imprisonment six months. .

§ 1833. Whenever it appears by satisfactory evidence that any
penson is held in illegal connnement, and that there is reason tobdlieve, that he will be carried out of the state, or suifer irreparable ingiury before he can be relieved, by the issuing of a writ
of deliverance, any court or judge, authorized to issue such writ,
may issue a warrant, directed to any sheriff, constable or other

person, reciting the facts, and commanding such oiiicer or person
to take the party and forthwith to bring him before the court or

_jI1dge.

§ 1334. When the evidence, mentioned in the last section, is
also suiiicient to justify an arrest of the person having the party
in his custody, as for a criminal offense committed in the taking
or detaining of the party, the warrant must also contain an order
fonthe arrest of such person for the offense. .

§ 1335. Any oiiicer or persen,.to whom the warrant is directed,
must execute the same, by bringing the prisoner therein named,
and the person who detains him:,if socommanded by-the warrant,
before the court or judge issuing it; and thereupon the person,
detaining the party, must make a return in the same manner, and

this name proceedings must be had thereon as if a, writ of de1iver— ‘

once had been issued in the first instance.
§ 1336. If the person, having the party in his custody, be
brought before the court or judge, as for a criminal-offense, he~

must be examined, committed‘, bailed or discharged, by the court

or judge in the same manner as in other criminal cases of the
like nature. ‘

§ 1337. Any officer or other person refusing to deliver a copy
of an order, warrant, process, or other authority, by which he
detains a person, to any one who demands it, and tenders the tbs.
therefore, shall forfeit two hundred dollars to the person so detained.

§ 1338. Whenever a writ of deliverance is required, in any action or matter, civil or criminal, to which the people of this state
are a party, the application therefore may be made by the attorney
general, or by the district attorney having charge thereof, and
whenever so issued, the court or judge allowing it-, must state in
the endorsement of the allowance, that it was issued on such.application. .

§ 1339. A writ of deliverance must he served by an elector of
this state, and the service thereof is not deemed complete, unless
the person, serving it, tenders to the person, in whose custody the
prisoner may be, if such person be a sheriff, coroner, constable or
marshal, the fees allowed by law for bringing up the party, nor
unless he also give an undertaking to such officer, tothe efect
that the charges of carrying back the party, if remanded, shall be
paid, and that he shall not escape by the way, either in going to
or returning from the place to which he is to be taken. But this section does not apply to a case, where the writ is issued on the
application of the attorney general, or by the district attorney.. .

§ 1340. The writ of deliverance may be served, by delivering
the same to the person to whom it is directed, or if he cannot be
found, by leaving it at the jail, or other place, in which the party
is confined, with any under officer or other person of proper age,
having charge for the time, of such party. '

§ 1341. If the persun, on whom the writ ought to be’served,

conceal himself, or refuse admittance to the person attempting to
serve it, it may be served by affixing it, or a copy thereof, in some
conspicuous place on the outside, either of his dwelling house, or
of the place where the party is confined. A ' .

§ 1342. It is the duty of every sheriff, coroner, constable or

marshal, upon. whom a writ of deliverance has been served,

' ‘whether such -writ be directed to him or not, upon payment or

tender of the fees allowed by law, and the delivery or tender of
the undertaking herein prescribed, to obey and return the writ,
according to the exigency thereof 3 and it is the duty of every
other person, upon whom the writ is served, having the custody
of the pe.rson,'for whose benefit it is issued, to obey and return it
according to the command thereof, without requiring any undertaking, or the payment of any fees, unless the payment of such
fees has been required by the judge issuing the writ.

§ 1343. Every judge, allowing a writ of deliverancedirected
to a person other than a sheriff, coroner, constable or marshal,

may, in his discretion, require in order to render the service effectual, that the charges of bringing up party, be paid by the applicant; and in such case he must, in the allowance of the writ,
specify the amount of such charges, which cannot exceed the fees
allowed by law to sheriffs for similar services.

§ 1344. If the writ be returnable at a certain time, such return
must be made, and the party produced, at the time and place
specified therein; if it be returnable forthwith, and the place be
within twenty miles of the place of service, the return must be
made and the party produced within twenty-four hours, and the
same time is allowed for every additional twenty miles.

CHAPTER VI.

APPEA D8 .

§ 1345. An appeal may be taken to the general term of the supreme court from an order refusing a state writ. For that purpose, if the order have been made by a judge out of court, it must
be first entered with the clerk.

§ 1346. An appeal may be taken to the general term of the supreme court from the judgment after the allowance of a state
writ. .

§ 1347. The appeal mentioned in the last two sections, must be
‘taken within sixty days after written notice of thejudgment or
order is given to the party appealing. The appeal is made by the

service of a notice in writing on the adverse party, and on the
clerk with whom the judgment or order appealed from is entered,

stating the appeal from the same or some specified part thereof.

§ 1348. Upon_the appeal being perfected, the clerk, with whom
the notice of appeal is filed, must, at the expense of the appellant,
forthwith transmit to the appellate court, a certified copy of the
notice of appeal, and of the judgment or order appealed from,
with all papers relating thereto.

§ 1349. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the appellate court
may review any intermediate order, involving the merits, and necessarily aifecting the judgment. '

§ 1350. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the appellate court may reverse, affirm, or modify the judgment or order
appealed from in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal,
and may, when it is necessary or proper, order a new trial.

§ 1351. The appellant must furnish the appellate court with
copies of the notice of appeal, and of the judgment or order appealed from,and of all other papers transmitted with it, to the
appellate court. If he fail to do so, the appeal may be dismissed.

§ 1352. To render an appeal eifectual for any purpose, a written undertaking must be executed, on the part of the appellant,
by at least two sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay
all costs and damages that may be awarded against him on the
appeal, not exceeding two hundred‘ and lift y dollars, or that sum
must be deposited with the clerk, with whom the judgment or

order appealed from was entered, to abide the event of the appeal.
The undertaking must be filed with the clerk.

TITLE II.

or svmmaar PROCEEDINGS.
CHAPTER I.

CONFESSION OF JUDGMENT, \Vl'l‘llOL"l' ACTION.

§ 1353. A judgment by confession may be entered, nithout action,either for money due, ur in he come due, or to secure any ‘

PWSOD against contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, 51'
both, in the manner prescribed by this chapter. ’
§ 1354. A statement in Wl‘|llllg~ must he made, signed by the
defendant and verified by hi,.~,»n:.th, to the l'ull«-wing effect :
1. It must atttlterise the entt°_\,'oi jwlgtnent fur a .~'peciti«~d sum :

2. If it be for money due or to become due, it must state concisely the facts out of which it arose,and must show that the sum
confessed therefore is justly due, or to become due :

3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against a "

contingent liability, it must state concisely the facts constituting
the liability, and must show,that the sum confessed therefore does
not exceed the same.

§ 1355. The statement may be filed with a county clerk,or with
the clerk of the superior court of the city of New-York, or the
clerk of the court of common pleas of the city of New-York, who
must endorse upon it,and enter in the judgment book, a judgment
of the supreme or superior court or court of common pleas, for
the amount confessed,with five dollars costs. The statement and

affidavit with the judgment endorsed,thereupon become the judgment roll.

§ 1356. In a justice’s court where the court has authority to.

enter the -judgment, the statement may be filed with the justice,

who must thereupon enter in his docket, a judgment of his court,
for the amount confessed, with one dollar costs. If a transcript

of such judgment be filed with the county clerk, a copy of the
statement must be filed with it. ,

§ 1357. Upon a bond and warrant of attorney executed and delivered before the first day of July, 1848, judgment may be entered in the manner provided by sections 1353, 1354 and l355,upon
the plaintiff ’s tiling such bond and warrant of attorney, and a
statement signed and verified by himself, in the form prescribed
by. section 1354, the amount of the judgment to be limited to the

sum mentioned in the plaintiti"s statement, with live dollars
costs. ‘

CHAPTER I.

SUBMITTING A CONTROVERSY, WITHOUT ACTION.

§ 1358. Parties to a question in difference, which might be the
gubject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case
containing the facts upon which the controversy depends, and
present asubmission of the same, to any court which would have
jurisdiction, if an action had been brought. But it must appeal‘
by affidavit, that the controversy is real, and the proceeding in

, when it was recorded: .

good t'aith,to determine the rights of the parties. The court must
thereupon hear and determine the case, at a general ‘term, and
render judgment thereon, as if an action were depending.

§ 1359. Judgment must be entered in the judgment book,as in
other cases, but without costs, for any proceeding prior tonotico

of trial. The case, the submission, and a copy of the judgment

constitute the judgment roll.

§ 1360. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner. as
if it had been rendered in an action,and is'in the same manner
Subject to appeal.

CHAPTER II.

SUMMARY PROCEEDINGS FOR FOIBIICLOSJNG MORTGAGES 0!‘ REAL
‘ PROPERTY. .

§ 1361. A mortgage of real property, to secure the payment of
money only, and duly recorded in the county where the property
is situated, may, at any time after default in the payment of A principal or interest, be enforced by foreclosure and sale, as provided
in this chapter. In all other cases the foreclosure of mortgages
of real property, must be by action; and nothing in thisaseotion
takes away the right of a party to foreclose by action in. every
case, at his option.

§ 1362. A notice that the mortgage will be foreclosed and the
property therein described sold, must be given, as herein after
prescribed, and must specify, , _

1- The names of the mortgagor and mortgagee, and of the several assignees, if any : _

2. The date of the mortgage, the county -where, and the time

3. The amount due thereon, at the time, of the first publication
thereof, and if the whole be not then due, the amount of principal
to become duethereafter : . _

4. A description of the mortgaged property, conforming substantially to that contained in the mortgage: .

5. The time and place of sale, specifying the day and hour, the
town, city, or village, and the particular house or place. therazn.
The notice must be subscribed with the name of the party who
is the owner of the mortgage, or .to whqm th9.,PBYfh9i.1t .-ia.dug,,1n
Milect to wbioh» default hos" theen-made ~ '

§ 1363. The notice must be published and served as follows:

1. By pub‘ishing the same for six weeks successively, once in
each week, in a newspaper printed and published in the county
where the property or some part thereof is situated ; if the proparty lie in a city or village, and a newspaper be published therein,
the publicatlon to be made in such a paper :

2. By serving a copy of the notice on the mortgagor, and on
persons having an interest or lien in the mortgaged premises, subsequent to the mortgage, or their personal representatives, by delivery in the manner of serving a summons in a civil action; or
if the person upon whom the service is to be made, does not reside in this state, or ‘cannot on due diligence be found therein,
but his place of residence is known, or can on diligent inquiry be
ascertained, by delivery thereof to some person of suitable age

and discretion, at the dwelling house of such persons respectively, or by depositing the same in the post office properly enveloped
and addressed to such persons, at their several places of residence; the service in all cases to be at least three weeks before
the time appointed for the sale:

3. By posting copies of the notice in the post-office nearest the

.l premises, and in two other public places of the town, city or village where the property, or some portion thereof is situated, at
least five weeks before the time specified therein for the sale.

§ 1364. At the time and place specified in the notice, the sale '

may be postponed on the request of any person claiming an interest in the premises, or for want of bidders, by a public announcement of the postponement, and publishing notice thereof,
as soon as practicable, in the same newspaper, at the foot of’ the
original notice, specifying the time and place to which the postponement is made, and- continuing the notice until the time appointed therein for the sale. It may be again postponed, and

from time to time in the same manner, but no costs or fees for
making any postponement, or publishing the same, or continuing
the notice sale, can be a charge on the mortgaged property.

§ 1366. The sheriff of the county must, if requested, attend
either in person or by deputy, at the time and place of sale, to
superintend the sale, and to receive and keep the money or securities'paid- or deposited thereon. .

§ 1366. The sale must-be by public auction, between the hours

of nine in the forenoon, and four in the afternoon. If the mortgaged property be situated in a city or village, the sale must be
therein, otherwise it may be in any part of the county in which
the property lies. If the property be a farm, or distinct lot, lying partly in or two more counties, the sale must be in the county
where the mansion house, or chief building on the property is

situated, or if there be none, or two or more in different counties,
the sale may be in either county. If the property consist of distinct {arms or parcels, they must be sold ssparately, but when a
parthas been sold for sufficient to satisfy the amount due and

costs, another parcel cannot be sold.

§ 1367. Immediately after the last parcel is struck oil‘, the
sheriff or auctioneer must give public notice of the time and place
at which application will be made to a judge to confirm the sale,

which time must not be less than three nor more than ten days
thereafter.

§ 1368. The mortgagee, or his assignee, may— prescribe the
terms of sale, and may give time for the payment of the whole or

part of the purchase money due him, and may become the purchaser on such sale. In place of payment of the purchase money
to the sheriff or auctioneer, the purchaser may deliver to him the
receipt of the owner of the mortgage therefore, to the extent of

the amount due him thereon, which receipt must be returned with
the papers to the judge, on the application for confirmation.

The sheriff, and his suretfes, shall be responsible for all monies
paid to him on such sale, in the same manner as for money collected on execution, and he must dispose of such moneyas the
judge may direct. _

§ 1369. Upon the application for confirmation, there must be
produced before the judge the original mortgage, and any bond or
collateral contract for the payment of the same mopey, or proof
of their loss or destruction, together with rvidencv:

1. Of the amount due on the mortgage at the time oi’ ‘the sale,

after allowing all paymvnts thereon :

9. Of the publication, service and pwsting of notices, as provided in sections 1362 and l36:~'., uml cvelgv [=ostpnmn.t‘nt. and
notice thereof, and its publication, as provirled in St'(3‘l«>l_l 1364,

-and also the service of the copies of the notice, specifying upon‘
whom, and when and how made: '

‘3. That the property was fairly sold to the highest bidder, by
public auction, at the time and place specified in the. notice of

sale or postponement, specifying the several parcels sold, the person to whom sold, the amount at which each parcel was struck

off, and the order in which they were sold, the amount paid by
such purchaser, and the receipt, if any, given by the holder of
the mort.gage,and the fact that notice was publicly given of appli- A
cation for the confirmation, at a specified time and place. '

§ 1370. The proof mentioned in subdivisions one and two of
the last section, must be by atiidavit of the partyforeclosing:
that of publication, by affidavit of the printer of the newspaper, or his foreman: that of posting and serving notices, and
of postponing the sale, by affidavit of the person who performed
the service; or if made by any other person, reasons satisfactory
to the judge, why they were not made by the persons above

designated, must be shown in the atiidavits.

§ 1371. Upon the applicationfor confirmation, or upon a day
to which it may be adjourned, the judge may correct any error
that may appear in the statement of the amount due on the
mortgage; and for that purpose may examine witnesses, or receive
‘other evidence. r

If it appear to his satisfaction, by the evidence, and by inspection of the mortgage, or other collateral contract, that the holder

was entitled to foreclose by reason of default in payment, and"that all the proceedings have been in conformity with this chapter

he must contirm the foreclosure and sa1e,by an order indorsed on
'or attached to, the affidavits or certificate and to be filed and re-corded therewith in the onice of the county clerk.

§ 1372. The order of confirmation must show:

_I. The names of all the persons upon whom it appears that the
notice was duly served:

2. The amount due, and the amount of costs to which the '

party foreclosing is entitled:
.3. The -whole amount for which the property was sold, stating
the surplus, if any,.or the dedcienoy, if any, remaining due on

the mortgage, and unsatisfied by the sale:

4. If there be payments to become due, unsatisfied by the sale,

and also other property mortgaged and not sold, it inust'be so
statedr

5. It must direct that the foreclosure and sale be ccnhrmed,
and that the evidence with the order, be filed and recorded.

§ 1373. If the evidence be defective it may be amended or sup’ plied. If it appear, that one or more parcels were sold, after :1,

sum had been raised suilicient. to satisfy the amount due with
costs, the sale as to those parcels may be vacated, and in other

respects confirmed. The omission to serve notice on persons
other than the mortgagor, and his personal representatives, shall
not affect the validity‘ of the foreclosure and sale, in respect to the
persons upon whom the notice was served. But a sale not conhrmed as provided in this chapter is void, any money -paid thereon
must be restored, and the judge by -order may enforce the restoration. .
§ 1374. When a person, upon whom notice is required to he
served, as provided in section 1363, cannot be found, and his
~ place of residence is unknown, and cannot on diligent inquiry be
ascertained, and that fact is upon the application, to confirm the
sale, made to appear, by aiiidavit, to the satisfactionof the judge,
the publication and posting of the notice, shall be deemed a good
service on such person and his name must be ‘inserted in the order of confirmation accordingly. 
§ 1375. The evidence with the order endorsed or attached, must
be filed and recorded at length in ‘the office of the clerk of the
county, where the mortgage was recorded, or if in the city and
county of New-York, with the register thereof, and thereupon
operates as a conveyance of the title of both the mortgagor and
mortgagee to the purchaser, and as a foreclosure of the equity of
redemption of every person, upon whom the notice was served
as determined in the order of confirmation, whose interest is derived from the mortgagor subsequent to the mortgage, or from a

lien attached since that time. The clerk must thereupon make
an entry in the record of the mo tgage referring to the evidence.

§ 1376. The right of a party to enforce or foreclose a mortgage,
as provided in this chapter, or the validity of the mortgage, or
the amount due thereon, may be contested ‘by action, brought at

any time before the sale in favor of any party interested, against
any party who may attempt to threaten such foreclosure. In

such action proceedings on the summary foreclosure may be
stayed by injunction on such terms, as the court may direct, and

in the action the court may complete the foreclosure, or not, in
its discretion.
§ 1377. At any time prior to the sale, any person having an

interest or lien upon the property, subsequent to the mortgage,

may assume the same, by paying to the holder the amount se-'

cured and interest, with the costs already incurred, togetherwith
the amount of any lien of the same holder subsequent to the
mortgage, and prior to that of the person oifering to assume it ;
and he shall thereupon be entitled to an assignment of the mortgage and of such subsequent lien, and may proceed in the foreclosure or discontinue it, at his option. '

§ 1378. Upon the application to ‘confirm the sale, or at such
other time as the judge may then appoint, he must proceed to
determinein a summary manner, the right of any person entitled
to an interest in surplus money arising on- the sale. He must
also make such order, as may be necessary, for the disposition of
any money in the sheriff’s hands.’ His orders in the case may be
enforced in the same manner as orders in actions, and disobedi—
ence thereof may be punished in the same manner.

§ 1379. The order of a judge, respecting the payment or dis. tribution of money arising upon the sale of mortgaged property,
. pursuant to this chapter, is subject to appeal to the supreme

court, in the same manner, as an order refusing a state writ. .
§ 1380. When a part of the money secured by the mortgage
only is due, and part of the property remains unsold, the mortgage may, for any subsequent default, be, again foreclosed, as to

_the remainder of such property, anda sale thereof made as at
Jirst.

§ 1381. When there is a surplus, arising on the sale, beyond
the amount due, with costs, and there remains a sum, secured by
the mortgage, yet to become due, the holder of the mortgage is
entitled to receive such surplus, to be applied to the amount
next to become due, the proper rebate of interest being made.

If he refuse to receive the surplus, .it_may, by order of the judge,
be paid to the person next entitled.

§ 1382. Mortgages to the people of the state, may be foreclosed
as provided in this chapter.
§ 1383. The ‘costs of summary foreclosure, pursuant to this chapter, and to be retained out of the proceeds of the sale, are as _
- follows :

1. The printer’s fees allowed bylaw for publishing notices;

2. The clerk’s fees allowed by law for necessary searches to
ascertain interests and liens subsequent to the mortgage;

3. For posting and filing notices, one dollar ;

4. For services, otherwise than through the post office, of a
copy of a notice on the mortgagor and other persons, not exceeding five, one dollar each ; for all over five, fifty cents each :

5. For service on each person served only through the post
odice, twenty-five cents; '

6. For all other services, prior to the day of ‘sale, five dollars;

7. For attending the sale, and all services to the day of application for confirmation, live dollars; . .
8. For attending the judge for confirmation, and all subsequent

services, five dollars;

9. The clerk’s fees allowed by law for recording evidence and order of confirmation; A

10. Sheriti"s fees upon the sale, for the first parcel sold, three
dollars ; for every subsequent parcel, separately sold, one dollar;
for attending before the judge on the application for copiirmation

with money received on the sale, two dollars; and for all money
actually received by him on the sale and paid over, one-half of

one per cent.

CHAPTER Iv.

SUMHARY PROCEEDINGS FOB SBTAINING POSSESSION OF REAL PROPERTY
IN CERTAIN CASES.

§ 1384. Entry upon real property can only be made, where
entry is given by law, and then it must not bemade forcibly; and
an entry peaceably made, must not be forcibly maintained, against

one who is entitled to the possession. A forcible entry or detention, within the meaning of this section, is one made with

weapons, an unusual number of persons, or threats of violence,‘

or attended with any other breach of the peace.

§ 1335. In case of a forcible entry or detention, the person dispossessed or excluded may, upon application »made within one
month thereafter, be placed in possession, if entitled thereto, as
provided in this chapter.

§ 1386. If a tenant, who is in arrears for rent, desert the property, leaving the same unoccupied, the landlord may be put in’
possession thereof, as provided in this chapter.

§ 1387. A tenant of real property, a term less than for life,
may be removed from such property, as provided in this chapter,
in the following cases: '

1. Where he continues in possession of the property, or any
part thereof, after the expiration of his term, without the permission of the landlord but in case of a tenancy at will or sufferance, it must be first terminated by notice, in the manner prescribed by law ; _

2. Where the tenant continues in possession,without such permission, after default in the payment of rent pursuant to the
agreement under which the property is ‘held, and three days notice in writing requiring payment of the rent or possession of
the property, shall have been served on the tenant, in the manner
prescribed by section 1389, for the service of an order;

3. Where _a person continues in possession of real property,
which has been sold upon ‘execution against him, or against the
person under whom he claims by a title subsequent to .the lien
on which if was said, after a title under such sale shall have been
perfected, and possession thereunder has been demanded;

4. Where a person continues in possession of real property,
which has been sold upon summary foreclosure of a mortgage,

executed by him, or by the person under whom he claims by a title subsequent to the mortgage, after a title under such sale shall

have been perfected, and ‘possession thereunder has been demanded. _

§ 1388. A complaint must be made, and verified, as in an
action, stating plainly and concisely the facts necessary to establish . the rights of the plaintiff, and thereupon either,

I. A copy of the complaint mu-st  served upon the defendant, with-a notice from the plaintifff that unless the defendant

previonsly surrender to the plaintiii‘ possession of the premises,
application will, at a specified time and place,_be made to a justice
of the town or justices’ district where the property, is situated, for
a warrant of possession in favor of the plaintifff ; or,

2. The complaint must be delivered to such justice, who shall

make an order, requiring the defendant to surrender possession.

of the property to the plaintiff, or show cause. before the justice,
at a specified place and time, why a warrant of possession should
not be issued in favor of the plaintitl‘.

§ 1389. The notice or order, with a copy of the complaint,
must be served by a sheriff or constable at least two days before
the day of appearance, either, ,

- 1. By delivering it to the defendant personally ; or

2. If he be absent from his place of residence, and from his
usual place of business,by leaving it with some person of suitable
age and discretion at either; or,

3. If such place of residence and business cannot be ascertained, or a personof suitable age and discretion there cannot be
found, then by affixing it, in a conspicuous place, on the properperty, respecting which the proceeding is bad, and also delivering a copy to a person there residing,if such person can be found.

The officer must make a return certifying the time and mannet of service. _ I _

§ 1390. If at the time appointed, the defendant do not appear
and defend, the justice, upon production of the complaint, and a
certificate of service of a copy thereof and of the notice or order,
must give judgment. that the defendant be removed from the property, and the plaintifff be put into the possession thereof.

§ 1391. The defendant may at the time for appearance, make
and deliver to the judge an answer to the complaint, verified as
in an action, denying any of the material allegations thereof, oralleging any defense he may have.

§ 1392. The questions arising on the complaint and answer"

must be tried by the justice, or, if either party demand it, a jury
must be summoned to try the question of fact, if any. The jurymust be formed as in .justice’s courts, and the provisions of this

code, respecting trials by jury in justice’s courts, apply to\ trialsby jury under thischapter. .
§ 1393. It the justice find, or the. verdict of the jury be rendered, in favor of the plaintifff, the justice must give judgment,
that the defendant be removed from the property, describing it,
and the plaintifff put in the possession thereof, and also that the
defendant pay the costs specified in the order.

§ 1394. For the execution of a judgment of removal, a warrant must be signed by the justice and delivered to the sheriff of
the county, or to the marshal or constable of the city or town in
which the property is situated, commanding him to remove the
defendant fromthe property, and put the plaintifff into possession
thereof, and to collect the costs of the proceedings specified in
the warrant. The officer to whom the warrant is directed and
delivered, must execute the same as prescribed in section 1403,
and must collect the costs in the same manner, as upon a judgment in ajustice’s court. ~

§ 1395. Upon the request of either party, the justice may adjourn the trial, for the purpose of enabling such party to procure
his witnesses, whenever it appears to be necessary, and due diligence has been already used; but such adjournment cannot,

without the consent of both parties, exceed ten days in the
whole. ‘

§ 1396. When a warrant is issued for the removal of a tenant,

the contract under which he holds, if any, is thenceforth, terml- .

nated, and the relation of landlord and tenant between the parties, ceases, except as provided in section 1399. ,

§ 1397. The tenant can stay the issuing of the warrant, when_
the application grows out of the failure to pay rent, if, before the
warrant be actually issued, he pay the rent due, with costs, or
give to the landlord security, approved by the justice, for the
payment thereof in ten days.

§ 1398. Proceedings must be stayed, when the application
grows out of a sale by execution or foreclosure of a mortgage, if, at
at any time before the issuing of the warrant, the occupant:

1. Pay the costs of the proceedings:

2. ‘File with the justice an affidavit, that he claims, the possession of the property, _by virtue of a title acquired after the sale,

. which defeats the plaintifff’s right of possession, or that he claims
as guardian or trustee of another not made a defendant : and

3. Deliver to the plaintifff an undertaking, with sureties approved by thejustice, to the eifect, that he will commit no waste

during his occupancy of the property, and that if an action be

brought by the pl aintitf, within three months, for the recovery ‘

of the possession thereof, he will pay the costs, and such damages
as may be recovered therein for withholding the possession.

§ 1399. When the application is under the second subdivision
of section 1387, if the unexpired ‘term of the lease, under which
the property is held, exceed one year at the time of issuing the
warrant, and the ‘notice or order was not personally served upon
the tenant, he, or his successor in interest, or one having a lien
upon the property, may, within sixty days after the executionof
the warrant, pay or tender to the lessor or his successor in interest, or to the justice, the rent in arrear to that time, with interest
and costs, and thereupon the premises must be restored to the

tenant, or his successor in interests, who shall hold the same according to the terms of the original lease.

§ 1400. The warrant cannot issue until twenty-four hours after
the judgment of removal, and during that time the defendant
may appeal from the judgment. The appeal’ must be made, in
the same manner, and to the same court, as from a justice’s judgment, and the proceedings upon the appeal are the same.

§ 1101. If the appellant desire a stay of the proceedings‘, he

must give security, by an undertaking executed by one or more
sureties, approved by the justice or the county judge, to the effect, that if the judgment be affirmed, the appellant will obey the
judgment of removal, pay the value of the use of the property
during the appeal, the costs specified in the warrant, and_‘the
costs of the appeal.

§ 1402. Upon an affidavit that‘ the defendant is the tenant of '

another under a subsisting lease, the landlord may defend the
proceeding either with or without the tenant. ' .
§ 1403. A warrant of removal can only be executed in the day
time. The officer must execute it by removing the defendant and
any other person occupying'by his permission any part of the
property, as his tenant or otherwise, and putting the plaintih‘
into possession. But when the premises are underlet the undertenant can not be removed, unless the summons has either been
served upon him or posted in a conspicuous place on the property.
§ 1404. The justice must make an entry in his docket of the_

proceedings, and such entry is evidence thereof.

paid.

§ 1405. Upon the the conviction of a defendant on an indictment for forcible entry or forcible detention, in a court of ‘ ses-'
sions or a court of oyer andterminer, the court may award restitution in the same manner as a justice upon a verdict pursuant to

this chapter.

TITLE III.

OF THE ENFORCEMENT OF LIENS.

CHAPTER 1.

LIENS IN GENERAL .

§ 1406. A lien is a right to have satisfaction of a‘ claim out of
aparticular thing, or to retain possession of it until the claim is

§ 1407. The liens, of which the enforcement is provided in this title, are of four kinds:
1. Liens on buildings:
2. Liens on vessels:
3, Liens on cargoes for Wharfage:

4. Liens on things doing damage upon real property.

CHAPTER II.

LIENS ON BUILDINGS.

§ 1408. A person who, under the authority of the owner, performs labor or supplies .naterials towards the erection, alteration
or repair of a building, in a city or incorporated village of this

state, may create a lien on the building and on the interest of the

owner in the lot of land upon which it stands, for the price or
value of such labor or materials, as provided in this chapter. ‘

§ 1409. The aggregate of such lieps cannotexceed the amount
which the owner of the building would be otherwise liable to pay
for such erection, alteration or repair.

§ 1410. The lien must be registered with the clerk of the county
where the building is situated, or in the city of New-York, with
the register of that city and county, as follows:

The claimant must deliver to the clerk a ‘statement in writing,

verified by affidavit, setting forth briefly the following particul8l'8 3 0 '

1. The situation of the building, designating it by the street on
which it is situated and the number of the lot, it‘ the street he
named,and the lot numbered, or otherwise by some certain or
known designation : ’

2. The owner of the building, under whose authority the lien
was created:

3. The particulars of the claim and the amount thereof, which
amount, if the claim be nlade before the labor has been performed or the materials supplied , and the amount payable therefore has
become due, must ‘be the amount payable by the terms of the
contract with the claimant, or capable of being ascertained therefrom by computation, if afterwards, the amount actually due:
and, ' "

4. A copy of the contract with the claimant, if it be in writing,

and if not in writing, a statement. of its substance.

§ 1411. The clerk must thereupon register the lien in a book
to be kept by him for that purpose, called the “book of liens,”

The entries must be arranged alphabetically under the name of

the owner and of the street, separately. It must contain the
name of the claimant and of the person against whom the claim

exists, the amount of the lien, the time when filed, and a brief
description of the property. A/copy of the statement must be
served on the owner by delivering it to him personally, or by

leaving it at his residence with a person of suitable age and dis- ‘

cretion, or by depositing it in the post office directed to him at his

place of residence. From the time of filing the statement and ser-_

vingthe copy,the claimant shall have a lien on the land and building
for the amount then actually due to him for work and materials,
or which afterwards becomes due, pursuant to the contract referred to in the statement ;‘ but such statement must be madeand
filed before the expiration of thirty days after the completion of

the work or the supply of the materials.
§ 1412. The lien may be discharged as follows:

1. By filing a certificate of the claimant or his successor in interest, acknowledged or proved in the same manner as the satisfaction of a mortgage, stating that the lien is discharged : or.
2. By the deposit with the clerk, of a sum of money equal to

the amount claimed, which money shall thereupon be held subject to the lien: or _
3. Byan entry of the clerk, made in the book of liens, after

one year has elapsed since the filing of the claim, stating that no
notice has been given to him of legal steps to enforce the lien:

or
4'. By a notice from the owner to the claimant, after the amount

has become payable, requiring him to commence an action, for

i the enforcement of‘ his lien, and the lapse of thirty days thereafter,

without the commencement of such action: or 5. By satisfaction of the lien, upon an action for the enforcement thereof.

§ 1413. After the registry of a lien, and the performance of the
work, or the supply of the materials, the claimant or the owner

may either serve personally upon the other a notice in writing,
requiring him to appear before a justice of the peace of the county,

at a specified time, not less than five days from the time of service, and submit to an accounting for the amount due for such
labor or materials. At the time mentioned in the} notice, or at
such other time as the accounting may be adjourned to, the parties appearing must each deliver to the justice, an account in
writing of his claim or offset, if any, verified by affidavit, and

submit to examination thereupon, under the direction of the justice. If both parties appear, and there arise a question of fact,
a jury may he demanded by either, and such question must be
tried by a jury in the same manner, as an issue joined in an ordinary action in a. justice’s court. In like manner, a co/ntractor,
that is, a person who contracts with the owner for labor and ma- terials, and who employs persons under him to do work, or furnish materials, may serve on such persons, and receive from them
a similar notice with the like effect; and a payment made by the
owner, to a person employed by a contractor must be allowed by
such contractor, in his account with the owner, to the extent of
any judgment which may be recovered by such person against
such contractor, pursuant to this section. ,

§ 1414. Upon the accounting mentioned in the last section,
whether a jury be called or -not, witnesses may be produced by
either party, and judgment must be rendered upon the amount
found by the jury or the justice; which judgment has the same

effect, is subject to appeal, and may be enforced in the same
manner, as a judgment in an ordinary action in a justice’s court.

§ 1415. After the performance of the work, or the supply of
the materials, and the expiration of any credit stipulated for the
payment, the lien mentioned in this chapter may be enforced, by
an action. In such action, all persons whose liens are registered,
as provided in section 1410, may be made parties, and the court
may, by the judgment, direct a sale of the land and building for
the satisfaction of the liens and costs; such sale‘ to be without
prejudice to the rights of any prior encumbrancer, owner or other
persons not parties to the action. In such action a notice thereo
must be filed in the same manner as in an action for the partition
or foreclosure of a mortgage of lands. If several such actions be
brought by diderent claimants, and be pending at the same time,
the court may order them to be consolidated into one.

CHAPTER III.

LIEN8 ON VESSELS.

§ 1416. A debt, amounting to at least’ fifty dollars, contracted
in this state by the owner, master, agent or consignee of a vessel,
is a lien upon the vessel, her tackle, apparel and furniture, when
contracted for either of the following purposes:

1. Work done, or materials furnished in this state, towards the
building, repairing, equipping and furnishing thereof :

2. Provisions and stores furnished in this state, proper for the
use of the vessel at the time they were furnished: . '

3. Wharfage and keeping the vessel in ‘ port, including the expense of employingjpersons to watch her.

This lien has preference over every other lien, except for marinc;-s’ wages. But it ceases in twelve days after the vessel leaves

the port where the debt was contracted for another place in this ’

state, and immediately upon her leaving this state.

4. Damage, occasioned to a vessel by collision with another,
through the negligence or willful misconduct of its navigator, if
it exceed iifty dollars, is also for thirty days after the collision, a,

lien upon the vessel doing the injury.
§ 1417. The lien mentioned in the last section, may be enforced

by an. action; in which the court may order the sale of the vessel.
and the tackle, apparel and furniture thereof, or the tackle, apparel and furhiture alone, and the application of the proceeds for
the purpose of satisfying the liens thereon. Upon a judgment
of sale, the sale must be made by the sheriff, and his bill of sale,
made in pursuance thereof, vests in the purchaser a "valid title to
the property sold, as against all the parties to the action.

§ 1418. Every person having an interest in or lien upon the
vessel whose name is known to the plaintifff, must be made by
name, a party to the action, either as plaintifff or defezrdant, and
all other persons having such interest or lien, are to be deemed
parties defendants.

§ 1419. The summons must be directedby name to the known
defendants, and generally to all other persons unknown having
an interest in the vessel or a lien thereon, and must contain a
brief description of the vessel, stating, if contained in the complaint, its name, the port to which it belongs, the name of its last
commander, and briefly the object of the action. The summons
must be served upon the defendants named therein as prescribed

in section 621, and upon the unknown defendants as prescribed in sections 622 and 623

§ 4120. In such action, the plaintifff, at the time of filing the,

complaint, mayhave the vessel attached as a security for the
satisfaction of such liens as shall thereon be adjudged valid. The
mode of proceeding to obtain such attachment, to execute and
discharge it, is the same as upon, the ordinary provisional remedy
by attachment. ,

§ 1421. If several such actions be brought by different persons
having liens upon the same vessel, and be pending at the same
time, the court may order them to be consolidated into one. .

§ 1422. No proceeding under this chapter can be had against a
vessel which shall have been seized by virtue of process from
a court of the United States, having admiralty jurisdiction, while
such vessel is actually held under such seizure, nor against a
vessel which shall have been sold by order of such court, except
for debts contracted after the sale. But nothing in this section

impairs the validity of any lien created by this chapter, the payment of which shall be decreed by a court of the United States.

CHAPTER IV.

LIEN8 ON CARCOES F OR '\VHARFAGE.

§ 1423. When a vessel has lain twenty-four hours at a wharf in
. this State, for which wharfage is due, and the same has been demanded of the master or owner, by notice ‘left on board with one
of the company of the vessel, and neither payment is made nor
security given therefore, the owner of the wharf may distrain any
chattels on board the vessel for the amount; and so, from time to
time as often as twenty-four hour’s wharfage becomes due. The
distress must be made by a constable or marshal.
§ 1424. The officer making the distress, must immediately give
notice thereof, with the cause of the’ distress, the amount of
wharfage due, and an inventory of the property taken, by leaving
it on board with one of the company of the vessel.
§ 1425. If, at the expiration of five days after the notice, the
wharfage due, with the costs of the distress, be not paid, and the
property distrained be not legally reclaimed, the officer must
summon two disinterested householders, who shall be sworn by

him, fairly to appraisethe property distrained. They must thereupon make and certify the appraisement.

§ 1426. The officer must, thereupon, give six days public notice
of the sale of the property distrained, by affixing it on a conspicuous part of the wharf for which the wharfage was due, and
also in two public places in the town or ward. On the day and
at the place appointed, he _must sell the property by public auction, and apply the proceeds to the satisfaction of the wharfage
due,.and costs, and pay the surplus, if any, to the owner of the

property.
CHAPTER V.

LIBN ON THINGS DOING. DAMAGE UPON REAL PROPERTY.

§ 1427. A person having an interest in real property, or entitied to its use or produce, who may find beasts or inanimate

things unlawfully thereon doing damage, unless they are at the
time in the immediate use or manual possession of another, has a
lien upon them for such damage, which he may enforce by distress.

§ 1428. A distress is the taking of personal property into the
custody of a party by his own act, without legal process, for the

enforcement of a lien.
§ 1429. When a distress is made, the distrainer must keep the

property safely until the appraisement of his damage, and, within
twenty-four hours after the distress, unless it was made on a Saturday, and then before the Tuesday morning thereafter, he must
apply to two fence viewers of the town to make the appraisement.

§ 1430. The fence viewers must immediately repair to the place,
view the damage, and thereupon ascertain and certify the amount
thereof, with their fees. They must also determine any dispute
which may arise, respecting the sufficiency of a fence around the
property where the damage was done, and may take the testimony
of witnesses, and for that purpose may administer oaths.

§ 1431. When the distress is of beasts, and the damage and fees
are not paid, the distrainer, within twenty-four hours after the

appraisement, must cause the beasts distrained to be put into the '

nearest pound in the city or town, it‘ there be one, there to remain
till the payment of the damages and fees, or the sale of the beasts
as prescribed in section 1439, or until the beasts are legally reclaimed. He must also deliver the certificate of the fence viewers

to the pound master. _

§ 1432. The pound master must receive, and keep in the pound
the beasts so delivered, and unless the same be reclaimed or discharged according to law within six days, sell them, or so many
of them as may be necessary, by auction, giving forty-eight hours
notice thereof, by advertisement posted at the pound and at the

nearest public-place. While the beasts remain in the pound their
owner may feed them without disturbance. From the proceeds

of the sale the pound master, after deducting the amount of his
fees and charges for keeping the beasts, and the charges of sale,
must pay to the distrainer the damages so certified, with the fees of
the fence viewers, and the surplus, if any, to the owner of the
beasts. If no owner appear to claim the surplus, within a year

after the sale, it must be paid to the overseers of the poor of the A

city or town, for the use of the poor.
§ 1433. A pound master or fence viewer with whom beasts are
impounded, must discharge them, on being paid:
1. The amount of damage certified by the fence viewers:

2. The fees of the fence viewers:

3. The fees of the pound master, with his reasonable charges
for feeding the beasts, if fed by him, not exceeding six cents for
each beast every twenty-four hours, and _ ~

4. In the city of New-York’ fifty cents a day each for every
day they remain in the pound. = .

§ 1434. When distress is made of inanimate things doing damage, or when distress is made of beasts, and there is no pound
in the city or town, the (listrainer must keep the things or beasts
in a safe and convenient place until the damage is appraised.and
they are sold or otherwise disposed of. ‘

§ 1435. In the cases provided for in the last section the dis- ‘

trainer must afiix a notice in the nearest post office and two other
public places of the town, six days before the sale, as follows:

1. Specifying the property distrained and the amount of damage certified:

2. Requiring the owner of the property to redeem and remove
it_ before the day appointed for the sale. i l

3. Stating that the property will be sold at a specified time and
place, to pay the damages and the charges of the proceedings.

§ 1436. If the value of the property distrained, as certified by
the appraisers, exceed fifty dollars,‘ the distrainer must also publish a similar notice, in the nearest newspaper, once a week for

four weeks; but in such case the time of sale must be at least ,

thirty days from the first publication of the notice. _

§ 1437. If the owner of the property be known to the distrainer, or if any person be known to him as claiming an interest
therein, and such owner or person be found or reside within the

county, the distrainer must also serve a copy of the notice, at

least six days before the sale, either personally on such owner or
person, or, in case of his absence from his place of residence,
with a person of suitable age and discretion; or, if the owner or
claimant reside out of the county, and his residence be known,
and" he be not served personally, by sending a copy of the notice
by mail, properly enveloped, to his address.

§ 1438. If the property be not removed, and the damage so
certitied, with the fees of the appraiser and the expenses of the
notice be not paid at the time appointed for the sale, the distrainer must apply to the sheriff of the county, or a constable of
the town, to sell the property, and for that purpose must deliver

to the officer the original certiilcate of the appraisers, and an affidavit, showing his compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
§ 1439. The officer must thereupon sell the property, in the

same manner as on execution against personal property in civil ~

actions, and out of the proceeds of the sale, after deducting his
own fees, pay to the distraiher the amount of damages certified,
the expense of the notice and all other expense that may have
been reasonably incurred in the safe keeping and preservation of

the property, to be ascertained and certilied by the county judge
or by a justice of the peace of the county, and the balance, if

any, pay to the owner of the property ; or if he be unknown, to

the county treasurer, for the owner, to be paid to him upon the
order of the county court, upon making application and proof of

property.
§ 1440. If, upon such application, the court entertain a doubt

of the ownership of the property, it may, before ordering the
payment, require th‘: claimant to execute an undertaking, with
sureties, to be approved by the court, to the effect that he will
pay the amount established to any person who, in an action on
such undertaking, commenced within two years from its date,
shall establish his right to such balance, or any part thereof; and
any person claiming such balance, or any part thereof, may prosecute the undertaking. '

CHAPTER VI.

GEN ERAL PROVISIONS.

§ 1441. When an officer is authorized by statute to distrain property for any purpose whatever,and no special provision is otherwise made, he must give, at least, six days’ notice of the sale of
the property, by posting the same in three public places of the
town where the sale is to be made; and he must also, before
making the sale, require three disinterested freeholders of the
town to appraise the property distrained, and they must thereupon make the appraisal on oath,and certify it with an inventory
of the property. ‘

§ 1442. Within ten days after the sale the officer making it
must file with the clerk of the town or city where it was made:

1. His own affidavit, specifying the cause of the distress,and

the amount of the penalty, tax, duty, or other sum for which it
was made: ‘

2. Proof, by aiiidavit, of the requisite notice:
3. The inventory and certificate of the appraisers:

Which papers, thus filed, are primary evidence of the facts
therein stated.

The officer, failing to comply with this section, within the
time therein required, forfeits twenty-five dollars to the owner of

the property sold besides the damages sustained by him in consequence of the failure. '

§ 1443. Out of the proceeds of the sale the officer may retain
the reasonable expense of the appraisal, certificates, notice, attidavits and ti1ing,_to be certified by a judge or justice,-and the
balance, after satisfying the penalty, tax", duty or other sum for

which the same was made, must be disposed of as provided in section 1439.’ TITLE IV.

OF THE PUNISHMENT OF OONTEMPTB.

§ 1444. The following acts, oromissions, in respect to a court
of justice, or proceedings therein, are deemed to be contempts cf
the authority of the court: 1 _

1. Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior toward the
judge while holding the court, tending to interrupt the due course
of a trial, or other judicial proceeding: .

2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbances, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or other
judicial proceeding:

3 Misbehavior in office, or other willful neglect or violation of ~

duty, by an attorney, counsel, clerk, sheriff, coroner or other,
person appointed or selected to perform a judicial or ministerial

service :

5. Deceit, or abuse of tl:e rrocess or proceedings of the court,
by a party to an action or special proceeding: ,

6. Disobedience of any lawful judgment, order or proccssof
the court:

7. Assuming to be an officer, attorney, counsel of a court, and
acting as such without authority:

8. Rescuingany person or property, in the custody of an officer

by virtue of an order or process of such court:
9. Unlawfully detaining a witness or party to an action, while

going to, remaining at ‘or returning from the court, where the action is on the calendar for trial :

1 0. Any other unlawful interference with the process or proceedings of a court:

11. Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be

sworn or answer as a witness: '
12. When summoned as juror in a court, improperly conversing

with a party to an action to be tried at such court, or with any
other person in relation to the merits of such action, or receiving
a communication from a party or other person in respect to it,
without immediately disclosing the same to the court:

13. Disobedience by an inferior tribunal, magistrate, or officer,

of the lawful judgment, order or process of a superior court, or
proceeding in an action or special proceeding, contrary to law,

after such action or special proceeding shall have been removed
from the jurisdiction of such inferior tribunal, magistrate, or

officer.

Disobedience of the lawful order or process of a judicial officer,
made in the cases speciiied in section 216, is also deemed to be a
contempt of the authority of such oiiicer.

§ 1445. Every court of justice, except a court of conciliation,
and every judicial oilicer, has power to punish contempts by hue
or imprisonment, or both. But when the contempt, is not one of
those mentioned in the first or second subdivisions of the last section, or in the first subdivision of section 216, it must appear
that the right or remedy of a party to an action, or special proceeding, was defeated or prejudiced thereby, before the contemptcan be punished by imprisonment, or by,a fine not exceeding
nfty dollars. Contempts of justices’ courts are punishable in the

manner provided by sections 1141, 1142, 1143, 1144, and 1145.
§ 1446. When a contempt is committed in the immediate View
and presence of the court or oiiicer, it may be punished summarily, for which an order must be made, reciting the facts as
occuring in such immediate view and presence, adjudging that
the person proceeded against is, thereby guilty of a contempt, and

that he be punished as therein ' prescribed. Such punishment,

,however, cannot exceed that prescribed by section 1455. Where

the contempt is not committed in the immediate view and pre- '
sence of the court, an affidavit must be presented to the court or
officer of the facts constituting the contempt. '

§ 1447. In cases, other than those mentioned in the last section,
the court or oiiicer may either issue a warrant of arrest, to bring
the person charged to answer, or without a previous arrest, may,
upon notice or upon an order to show cause, grant a warrant of

commitment. But no warrant of commitment can be issued
without such previous arrest or answer, or upon such notice or
order to show cause.

§ 1148. If the party charged be in the custody of an officer, '

by virtue of a legal order or process, civil or criminal, except
upon a sentence for felony, an order may be made for the production of such person, by the officer having_ him in custody,
that he may answer, and he shall thereupon be produced and
held, until an order be made for his disposal.

§ 1149. Whenever a warrant of arrest is issued, pursuant to’
this chapter, the court or oiiicer must direct, whether the person
charged may be let to bail for his appearance upon the warrant,
or detained in custody without bail, and if he may be bailed, the
amount in which he may be let to bail; The directions, given in

.this respect, must be specified in the warrant.

§ 1450. Upon executing the warrant of arrest, the she:-in‘ must
keep the person in actual custody, bring him before the court or
odicer, and detain him until an order be made in the premises,

unless the person arrested entitle himself to be discharged, as
provided in the next section.

§ 1451. When the warrant contains the direction [to let the
person arrested to bail, he -must be discharged from the arrest,
upon executing and delivering to the oiiicer, at any time before
the return day of the warrant, a written undertaking, with two
sufficient sureties, to the enect that the person arrested will appear on the return of the warrant, and abide the order of the
court or officer thereupon, or pay, as may be directed, the sum

specified in the warrant.
§ 1452. The othcer must return the warrant of arrest, and the

undertaking, if any, received by him from the person arrested,by
the return day specified therein. If he fail to make the return, a

warrant of arrest not bailable may be issued _against him specify'ing therein the cause of issuing it.

§ 1453. The officer to whom the warrant mentioned in the last section is delivered, must execute it, by arresting the person proceeded against, bringing him personally before the court or ofIicer, and. detaining him in-custody until otherwise ordered.

§ 1454. When the person arrested has been brought up, or appeared, the court or officer must proceed to investigate thecharge
by examining him and witnesses for or against him, for which an
adjournment may be had from time to time, if necessary.

§ 1456. Upon the evidence so taken, the court or oiiicer must
determine, whether the person proceeded against is guilty of the
contempt charged, and if it be adjudged that he is guilty of the
contempt, a fine must be imposed upon him, not exceeding two
hundred and fifty dollars, or he must be imprisoned not exceeding six months, or both. But in the discretion of the court or ofticer (in case of inability to pay the tine, or endure the imprisonment), he may be relieved in such manner and upon such terms
as may be just.

§ 1456. If an actual loss or injury, to a party in action or special proceeding prejudicial to his rights therein,have been caused
by the contempt, the court or officer, in addition to the fine or
imprisonment imposed for the contempt, may order the person
proceeded against to pay to the party aggrieved a sum of money

suiiieient to indemnify him, and to satisfy his costs and expenses,
which order, and the acceptance of the money under it, is a bar to

an action by the aggrieved party for such loss‘ or injury.

§ 1457. When the contempt consists in the omission to perform
an act which is yet in the powerof the person to perform, he may

be imprisoned, until he shall have performed it, and in that case
the act must be specified in the warrant of commitment.
§ 1458. Persons proceeded against, according to thetprovisions

of this chapter, are also liable to indictment for the same misconduct, if it be an indictable offense, but the court before which a

conviction is had on the indictment, in passing sentence, must
take into consideration the punishment before inflicted.


§ 1459. When the warrant of arrest has been returned served,

if the person arrested do not appear on the return day, the court
or officer may issue another warrant of arrest, or may order the

undertaking to be prosecuted, or both.‘ If the undertaking be

prosecuted, the measure of damages in the action, is the extent of

the loss or injury sustained by the aggrieved party, by reason of
the misconduct for which the warrantwas issued, and the costs of
the proceedings.

§ 1460. Whenever, by the provisions of this chapter, an officer
is required to keep a person arrested in actual custody, and to

, bring him before a court or officer, the inability, from illness or

otherwise, of the person to attend is a sufficient excuse for not
bringing him up. Nor can the oihcer be required to confine a
person arrested upon the warrant in a prison, or otherwise to restrain him of personal liberty, except so far as may be necessary
to secure his personal attendance.

TITLE V.

ASSESSMENTS.

CHAPTER I.

ASSESSMENTS. FOR LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS.

§ 1461. Assessments, whether for benefit or damage, authorized
by any statute of this state, must, in the first instance,be made by

three commissioners appointed by the county court of the county,
in the following cases : ‘

1. When specific property, real or personal, is taken from the
owner and appropriated to public pm-poses other than for a plank
road or railway: ‘ '

2, When a con‘tribution_in,- money is required, towards the expense of local improvement, in opening streetsor. public roads:

§ 1462. The appointment of commissioners must be made upon
a previous notice from the party, in whose name the application

is made; and none but freeholders of the county can be appointed.

§ 1463. The notice must be given by advertisement, published

in a newspaper of the county, not less than once a week for three
weeks. n

§ 1464. From the time of their appointment, the commissioners,
and all their proceedings, shall be under the control of the court,
which may, in its discretion, direct the time and place of meeting
of the commissioners, and the time of making their report. The
court also has control over all the proceedings subsequent to the
report of the commissioners including the sale for the assessment,
if a sale be made. ‘ '

§ 1465. Any person, interested in the assessment, may make
himself a party to the proceedings, by giving to the commissioners written notice of his wish to be made a party, stating his name

and address; and thereafter is entitled to have at least six days
notice of the meeting of the commissioners, of the time of presenting their report, and of the sale, if any. The notice must be
served by delivering it to him personally, or sending the same

through the post office to his address; except that when a party
comes in after notice already given to the existing parties, a new

notice to him is not necessary. But the failure to give the notice ’

required by this section, does not aifect the jurisdiction of the
court. ’

§ 1466. The report of the commissioners may refer to a map

- annexed, accurately tracing the boundaries of property taken or

assessed, and need not otherwise describe such property in detail.
On receiving the report, the court may connrm or modify it,‘ or
may reject it, and order a new report to be made by the same or
other commissioners. _ ’ ’:

§ 1467. Any person interested, may present in writing objections to the'report, thefacts stated in such objections being veriiied by oath. The court must decide upon the objections, but if
it appear to the court, that there is a fact in dispute between the

y. parties, whether such fact be the amount of damages or other- ‘

wise, and a trial thereof by jury be demanded by either party,
such trial must be ordered.

§ 1468. When there is a trial by jury, the court may exercise
the same control over the jury and the verdict, that is exercised
in civil actions, and may thereupon make a iinal order in the
case.

§ 1469. Any sale or lease made for the purpose of satisfying the
‘assessments, mentioned in ‘the third subdivision of section 1461,

must be made within three years after the confirmation of the report of the commissioners. Such sale must be reported to the
court, which may confirm it, or for good cause order a resale,

but no sale can in any case be made, or lease granted, for a longer period than twelve years.

§ 1470. The commissioners are entitled for their services, to

the same fees as referees, but such fees, in the aggregate, can
never exceed one hundred dollars to each commissioner. Necessary surveyor’s fees, not exceeding two hundred dollars, and
clerk’s fees, for copies of papers, at the rate of live cents for every
hundred words, and printers fees at the rate allowed by law may
also be included in the assessment. No other fees, cos_ts or expenses of any kind, for any local improvement, or upon any assessment, or for proceedings in relation thereto, can be made a charge
upon the property. If the assessment be not paid, the expense
of enforcing the collection, to be fixed by the court may then be
added, not exceeding besides printer’s fees, one per cent on the

amount of the assessment.

CHAPTER II.

OPENIKG OF PRIVATE ROADS.

§ 1471. Any person desiring a private road to be opened over

the land of another, may make application therefore to the county
court of the county.

§ 1472. Such application must state brieiiy the circumstances
which make the road desirable to the applicant, and must be
verified by him. It must state the names and places of residence

of the owners and occupants of the land upon which the road is

proposed, and must beaccompanied by a map or plan of the road
proposed, and of the adjacent lands. ,

§ 1473. Upon receiving the application, the court mustmake
an order that the persons interested show cause, if they have any,
at a speciiied time and place, why the road should not be opened,
and in such order must direct the manner of serving the notice,
as may appear most likely to reach the persons interested, such

service to be not less than ten days before the time specified.

§ 1474. Upon proof of service of the order, if no sumcient
cause to the contrary -be shown, the court may make an order,
directing the sheriff to summon a jury of freeholders, to appear
at a speciiied ‘ time and place, to determine the necessity of the
road, and the amount of all damages —to be sustained by the opening thereof. A

§ 1475. The sheriff must execute the order by drawing from
the undrawn jury box of a’ justice in the town where the property
lies, and summoning eighteen jurors, not interested in the question, and indiiferent between the parties, to appear at the time
and place specified in the order; and upon the appearance of the
jurors, twelve of them must be drawn, and sworn to make a true
Inquisition in the premises. ‘

§ 1476. The jury must thereupon go upon the land proposed
to be, laid out for a road, and the adjacent land, and after exami- ’
ning the application, maps, and plans, and hearing such evidence
as may be offered, must make their inquisition and return the
same to the court. .

§ 1477. If the jury determine, that the road is necessary, it
must determine the proper width and location thereof, and the
amount of all damage to be sustained by the opening and continued use thereof. The court may thereupon make an order,
describing-the road, and declaring it a private road for the applicant, and his assigns, and for travel to and from the property, in
respect to which it -was applied for. A copy of the order must
be filed with the records of roads, in the city or town, where the
property is situated.

§ 1478. The court must fix the expense of the proceeding, at
such sum as may seem to it reasonable, not exceeding in the

whole one hundred dollars, and must direct the payment by the
applicant of the same, together with the damages found by the
jury, before procet ding to open the road.

§ 1479. The provisions of the. statutes, regulating the proceedings of commissioners, or other persons, appointed to estimate orassess the expense of local improvements, in the several cities and
villages of this state, or relating to such assessments, or to the
sale or lease of real property, for the failure to pay assessments,

so far as the same are consistent with the provisions of this chapter, remain in force; the term “‘commissioners,” being taken
to include all persons appointed to estimate or assess such damages.

TITLE .
or was vownunv mssomrrrox or coarona-dons.

§ 1480. This title embraces the corporations intended by section 965, and embraced in the chapter on actions respecting corporations.

§ 1481 A corporation may be dissolved by the supreme court,
or the county court, of the county where its oilice, or principal
place of business, is situated, upon the voluntary application for
that purpose of a majority of its trustees, directors, or other 0&cers having the management of its affairs. '

§ 1482. The application must be in writing, and must set forth
either the insolvency of the corporation, or other suilicient reason‘ for terminating its ‘corporate existence, and must contain the
following particulars:

1. An inventory of all the property, and of the books, vouchers and securities of such corporation, as far as the same are
known to the applicant, or can be ascertained by him:

2. A statement of the capital stock, the number of shares, and
their nominal value, the names of the stockholders, the number
of shares belonging to each, the amount paid in, and the amount
remaining unpaid: '

3. An ‘inventory of the debts and liabilities of the corporation,
including contracts not completed or satisiied, specifying the
names and residence of the creditors respectively, as far as
known, the nature of each debt, and the cause and consideration
oi’ each: and,

4. A statement of all the liens, or encumbrances‘outstanding,
unsatislied, on property of the corporation, and the amount actually due, or to become due thereon.

§ 1483. The application must be verified by aiiidavit, in the
same manner as a complaint in an action, and may be presented
to a judge of the court either in or out of court.

§ 1484. If the judge be satisfied, that the application and schedule are in conformity with this chapter, and if there appear

sufficient ground forthe application, but not otherwise, he ‘must
order notice to be given to all the stockholders, creditors and

others interested, to show cause, if they have any, at a speeitied
time and place, why the corporation should not be dissolved. He

may also, if the nature of the case require it, restrain, by injunction, the sale or transfer of any property, or the transaction of any

business, by or on behalf of such corporation, until the further
order of the court, and may also, then, or afterwards, appoint a

receiver, if, in his opinion, it be necessary.

§ 1485. A copy of the order must be served personally. on all
the members of the corporation residing and to be found, in the
same county, at least ten days before the time appointed, in the
same manner as a summons in an action. It must be served on
all other persons interested, either personally or by publication
thereof, for three weeks successively, next before the time of appearance, in a newspaper ‘printed in the county. The judge may
also require its publication in one or more other newspapers, if
he deem it necessary, in order to give notice to the persons interested. ‘

§ 1486. At the time and place speciiied,'or at another time and
place to which the hearing may be then adjourned, the court

must hear the_ allegations and evidence of the applicant, and of
any other party interested. The original applicationand schedules may be used on the hearing, adjournments may be had, and

testimony taken, from time to time, in the discretion of the court, ‘

and if it become necessary to take an account, a reference for that
purpose may be ordered.
§ 1487. If the court be satisfied that the corporation is insolvent, or that for any other reason, the dissolution thereof will be
beneficial to the stockholders, and not injurious to the public, an

order of dissolution may be made, and a receiver appointed. Such

corporation shall thereby cease to exist, and its property shall be
applied in satisfaction of its debts,‘ and in discharge of its liabilities, and the residue distributed among the stockholders, according to their respective interests therein. No action or special proceeding shall abate by such dissolution, but the receiver may, on
motion, be substituted therein, for the corporation.

§ 1433. All conveyances, sales,transfers, and mortgages of real

or personal property of such corporation, in payment of, or seen-y
rity for, an ‘antecedent. debt, or otherwise, in violation of the ins
junction are void against the receiver and the creditors.

§ 1189. The receiver must, by public notice, appiont a general
meeting of all the creditors, and others interested in the corporation, at a time within three months after his appointment, when
all accounts and demands for and against the corporation,and all
open and subsisting contracts, must be liquidated and classified as
far as practicable. A statement showing the ‘condition of the
funds, and of the affairs generally in the hands of the receiver,
must be then prepared and exhibited by the receiver. All books
and papers in the hands of the receiver, are also at all times subject to the examination of the creditors and stockholders.

§ 1490. After sud: meeting, and within four months from the
time of his appointment, the receiver must pay all outstanding

just claims against the corporation, to the extent of the funds in
his hands (except such as he is by law authorized to reserve), or
if the funds are insufhcient, must make payment and distribution
in equal proportions, according to their priority. ,

§ 1491. If any money remain in the hands of the receiver, or
be received by him, after the first dividend, he must, within it
year thereafter, and as much sooner as the condition of the assets
will permit, after giving due notice thereof, make a second, and,

if possible, final payment to the creditors, and distribution of the
residue to stockholders, or others entitled, of the remaining assets

in his hands. If after the second distribution, there still remain
any part of the estate not collected or distributed, a third dis-_
tribution must be made in like manner, and so on, as often as may,
be necessary: but no distribution among the stockholders can be‘
made within one year afterthe appointment of the receiver, nor.
until after all the known debts are paid and liabilities discharged,
or a sufficient fund set apart for that purpose.

§ 1492. Notice of every distribution must be published at least

oncea week, for three weeks next before the time appointed
therefore, in a newspaper printed in the county, where the principal place of business of the corporation was situated, and also in
‘he state paper. .
§ 1493. Any person having a just claim, who has not been 

eluded in the list of creditors, or of persons entitled to distribution, or has not hadhis just share of the assets at any former distribution, may appear and establish his claim, before the final
dividend, and shall thereupon be entitled to his full share out of
the remaining assets, if sufficient remain to make his payment or
distributive share, equal», in proportion to its amount, to that of
other claims of the same class at all former dividends, and‘ may
‘thereafter receive with others his just proportion.
§ 1494. Immediately after all the funds in the‘hands ofthe
receiver have been paid out and applied, he must make a report
to the court, containing a full and accurate account of his proceedings; which report must be filed with the clerk of the court
in the county where the principal place of business of the corporation was situated. '
§ 1495. Previous notice, of the time and place of filing the
account, must be published once a week for three weeks, in a
newspaper printed in the county, and also in the state paper, and
-a copy of such notice must also be served on every party who has
previously, in writing, requested notice of the final account. Such
notice must also state, that the account will remain ori file for
for the examination of all persons interested, for two weeks from
‘the time of filing the same, and if no objection_ be made to it by
the service of notice, in writing, on the receiver, within that time,
that an order closing the account and discharging the receiver,
will be entered.
§ 1496. Upon satisfactory proof, produced to the court,showing
that such account has been filed after due notice thereof, in the
manner for the time prescribed in the last section, and that no
-objection has been made, thereto,by notice served on the receiver,
an order may be made that the account of the receiver be conhrmed, and he be thereupon discharged.

§ 1497. An objection taken to such account, must state generally
in what respect it is erroneous_ or defective, and the parties objecting are thereupon entitled to five days notice of the time and
places of presenting the account, with the objection, to the court
for decision.

§ 1498. The judge must proceed to -examine the account and

the objection, pursuant to the notice, on ,the day specified, or on‘

some other day to which the examination may be adjourned, and
may, when it involves the taking of oral testimony, or the examination of numerous vouchers, refer the same to a referee, to
hear the parties and their evidence, and if necessary, restate_the

account. Upon tiling the report of a referee on as receiver’s ac- i

count, an opportunity must be given to the parties interested to
be heard.

§ 1499. The court must make an ‘order, allowing, disallowing

or modifying such account, according to the report of the referee

or otherwise, as may be just, and must direct the proper payment
and distribution of the balance, if any be- found in the receiver’:

hands. Such onder ishnal as to all parties-receiving notice, pursuant to the provisions of this title. 

§ 1500. Every receiver, appointed pursuantto this title, must
chase the afairs of the corpoa-ation,.and render his dual account
to the court, by nling the same; within: sixteen months‘ from thetime of his appointment, or within such further time as the court,
on application andthe cause. shown, may allow. '

TITLE VII. . .

OF PROCEEDINGS IN THE COURTS OF COl\'CILIA'I‘ION.—

§ 1501. A. court of conciliation is held in each of the counties
of this state. In the city and county of New-York it is held by
the city judge of the’ city of New-York, or any supervisor; in
every other county, it is held by the county judge, or by any
supervisor in the county.

§ 1502. The court may be held on any judicial day, wherever
in his county, the judge or supervisor may happen to be ; but a
supervisor shall not be. required to hold_ a court_out of the town
or ward for which he was elected. , _

§ 1503. Any person, claiming to have a cause of action against
another, in any of the cases mentioned in section 1505, may
serve on him a written notice, mentioning the alleged cause of
action, and requiring him toappear in relation thereto, before
lhe court of conciliation of the county, Where the notice is served,
at a specified time, not less than five days from the time pf service.

§ 1504. Such notice must be served in the manner prescribed.
for a summons, in a civil action.

§ 1505. The causes of action, of which this court has cognizance, are libel, slander, malicious prosecution, breach of promise of marriage, seduction, assault, battery and false imprisonment.

§ 1506. At the time specified in the notice, or at such other
time as the hearing may be adjourned to by the court, the parties
appearing must be received by the court apart from all other
persons, except as is provided in section 1515, and thereupon, it
is the duty of the court to l1ear the allegations and explanations
of the parties, to inform them of their respective rights, and to
endeavor to reconcile their differences.

§ 1507. Parties may voluntarily appear before the court,
without notice, and such appearance is as effectual as if notice
had been previously served.

§ 1508. If a reconciliation be had, a memorandum thereof,
stating the nature of the controversy, or alleged cause of action.

the appearance of the parties, and the fact of the reconciliation-.

without specifying the terms thereof, unless it be agreed by the
parties to specify them, must be entered in a book of records, to
be kept by_;the court, and such entry must be signed bycthe respective parties. The reconciliation thus effected, shall be the
final deter .nin.2tlon of the matter in controversy.

§ 1509. If the parties agree to a judgment, in favor of one

against the other, in settlement of their differences, the court may
make, at the foot of the entry of reconciliation, a memorandum,

stating the judgment agreed upon. A transcript of such memorandum, certified by the judge or supervisor, may be filed in the
office of the county clerk, and shall thereupon have the same
effect, and may be enforced in the same manner, as the judgment
of a county court. _

§ 1510. If, instead of areconciliation, the terms of which are

settled between the parties, they voluntarily submit their matters in difference to the court, such submission and agreement,
or assent, must be entered in the book of records, and signed by
the respective parties ; and thereupon the judgment of the court,
made pursuant to the submission, shall have the same effect, and
may be enforced in the same manner, as the judgment mentioned

in section 1509. _
§ 1511. If, after the service of the notice prescribed in section 1503, either party fail to appear, or if the parties appearing be
not reconciled as mentioned in sections 1508 and 1509, or do not
enter into the submission and agreement mentioned in section 1510, it is the duty of the judge or supervisor, to make an entry
in his book of records, stating in a summary manner the nature
of the charge, the notice given, the proof of service thereof, the
failure to appear of either party, or the appearance of the parties
and their failure to be reconciled.

§ 1512. The entries in such book of records, or certified copiesthereof signed by the judge or supervisor are evidence of thefacts therein stated; and it is the duty of the judge to give a
transcript of the entries in any case, certified by him, from hisrecords, to either party on request.
§ 1513. In any action hereafter brought for the recovery of

damages, for a cause of action mentioned in section 1505, the
plaintiff cannot recover costs, unless he produce at the trial the
certified copy mentioned in the last section, and unless it thereby
appear that the notice was duly served, and that he appeared
pursuant thereto, or that both the parties appeared without notice,
as mentioned in section 1507.

The defendant cannot recover costs in such action, when it
appears that after service of the notice, he failed to appear purmantthereto.

§ 1514. If, however, the case be one requiring a provisional
remedy, and of such urgency as not to justzfy the delay arising

from a previous notice to appear before the court of CO!1Cili:1ti~cn, ’

the action may be commenced without such appearance or notice
and if the plaintifff afterwards give the notice, and appear before
the court of conciliation pursuant thereto, he may recover costs
accruing subsequent to such appearance.

§ 1515. When an infant, or a woman is a party to a proceeding’

before the court of conciliation, such infant or woman may be
attended by the guardian, or husband, of such party, or if there
be none, then by some friend approved by the court.

§ 1516. In an action between partners, or between principal
and agent, if either party make it appear to the court, that previous to his complaint or answer, he made an offer in writing to
hisadversary, to submit the matter in ditference between them

to arbitration, as in the next section prescribed, no costs can be
awarded against the party making such otfer.

§ 1517. The arbitrators, required by the last section, must be
three competent and disinterested persons, one to be chosen by
each party, and the third to be either chosen by those two, or by
a court of conciliation of the county. '

§ 1518. It is the duty of the judge of the court of conciliation,

-30 far as may be compatible with his duties as judge, to give to
every person, who may ask it, advice respecting his diiferences

with another.

§ 1519. No party to any admission or declaration, made before
the court of conciliation, is bound thereby or responsible therefore, in any other judicial proceeding whatever, except as provided
in this title. ’ ,

§ 1520. No the can be received by a judge or superior, for any

. services rendered in the court of conciliation.‘

TITLE VIII.

OF ABBITRATIONB.

O

§ 1521. Persons, capable of contracting, may submit to arbitration any controversy, which might be the subject of a civil
action between them, except a question of title to real property,
in fee or for life, or for an existing term of more than twelve
years. This qualification does not include questions relating
merely to the partition, or boundaries of real property, or to the
admeasurement of dower.’

§ 1522. The submission to arbitration must be in. writing, and
may be to one or more persons.

§ 1524. It may be stipulated in the submission that it be en- tered as an order of the county court, for which purpose it must

be filed with the clerk of the county, where the parties or one of
them reside. The clerk must thereupon enter in his register of

actions, a note of the submission, with the names of the parties,
the names of the arbitrators, the date of the submission, when
filed, and the time limited by.the submission, if any,_ within

which theaward must be made. When so entered, the submission cannot be revoked Without the consent. of both parties, the
arbitrators may be compelled by the court to make an award, and

the award may be enforced by the court, in the same manner as
a judgment. If the submission be not made an order of the
court, it may be revoked at any time before the award is made,
or if unrevoked, the award ‘can be enforced by act.ion only.

§ 1524. Arbitrators have power to appoint a time and place
for hearing, to adjourn i'rom time to time, to administer oaths to
witnesses, to hear the allegations and evidence of the parties, and
to make an award thereon.

§ 1525. All the arbitrators must meet and act together during
theinvestigation, but when met a majority may determine any
question. Before acting, they must be sworn, before an oiiicer
authorized to administer oaths, faithfully and fairly to hear and
examine the allegations and evidence of the parties, in relation
to the matters in controversy, and to make a just award, accordipg, to their understanding.

§ 1526. The’ award must be in writing, signed by the arbitrators, or a majority of them, and delivered to the parties. When
the submission is made in order of court, the award must be filed

with the clerk and a note thereof made in his register, after the

expiration of ten days from the entry upon the application of a
party, and on filing an affidavit showing that a copy of the award

and notice of filing the samedias been served at least eight days
prior to the application, and that no order staying the entry of

judgment has been served, the award may be entered in the
judgment book, and shall thereupon have the effect of a judgment.

§ 1527. The county court, on motion, may vacate the award‘,
upon either of the fdllowing grounds, and may order a new hearing before the same arbitrators, or not, in its discretion:

1. That it_was procured by corruption or fraud:

2. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct, or commit;
ted gross error in refusing, on cause shown, to postpone the hearing, or in refusing to hear pertinent. evidence, or otherwise acted
improperly in a manner by which the rights of the party were
prejudiced: .

3. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers in making their

award, or that they refused, or improperly omitted to consider-1
a part of the matters submitted to them, or that the award is in.

dennite, or cannot be performed. '

The court may, on motion, modify or correct the award, where
it appears, ,
p 1. That there was a miscalculation in figures, upon which it
was made, or that there is a mistake in the description of some

person or property therein:
2. When a part oi‘ the award is upon matters not submitted,

which part can be separated from other parts‘, and does not affect

the decision on the matters submitted: _
3. When the award is imperfect in form, and if it had been a

verdict could have been amended, or thoseimperfections disregarded. '

§ 1528. Upon such motion, the costs thereof may, in the discretion of the court, he added to the award, but no other costs or.
charges. =

§ 1529. The decision upon the motion, is subject to appeal in:
the same manner as an order which is subject to appeal in a civil
action; but the judgment entered before a motion is made is not
subject to appeal. I

§ 1530. If a submission to arbitration be revoked and an action
be brought therefore as provided in section 1523, the amount to
be recovered can only be the costs, expenses and damages sustained in preparing for and attending the arbitration, nor can the
recovery be increased by any penalty or sum fixed as damages in
the submission or otherwise, in case of revocation.

§ 1531. The provisions of this ‘title must not be construed to’

prevent a recovery in an action upon the written award of one or
more arbitrators, to whom a matter in controversy may be submitted in writing, to decide upon their own ,knowledge with or

Without testimony.

TITLE IX.

, or r-nocasnxnes IN suraqcnns’ oouars.

CHAPTER I.’

PRC CEEDINGS IN GENERAL.

§ 1532. There are no pleadings in surrogates’ courts. The
proceedings are those ‘prescribed by special statutes in the cases

not provided for in this chapter, exec pt that letters of adminis-_ _

tration and letters testamentary may be known as the appoint’;

ment of administrators or executors. Those proceedings are had
upon the application of a party, verbal or written; and when

verbal, entered in the minutes or otherwise ; when written they
are filed. The surrogates’ powers are exercised by means of ‘
- 1. A citation to a party: ‘

2. An affidavit, deposition, or statement of a party :

3. A subpoena to witness:

4. Orders and judgments: and,
‘ 5. An execution or warrant to enforce them.
§ 1533. The surrogate must keep an office open at all reasonable hours ,suitable and convenient for the transaction of the business, and for the deposit and safe keeping of the public books and

papers under his charge. If such oilice be not provided by the V

supervisors of the county, the surrogate must provide it at his
own expense. He may also hold his court at any other place in

his county, which he may from time to time appoint. He must
also provide suitable cases for the books and papers of his office,
the expense of which is a county charge. They belongto the
county, and must be delivered by the surrogate to his successor
in oiiice.
§ 1534. The following books must be kept by the surrogate:
1. A register, in which must be entered a memorandum of all
oihcial business transacted in his office; appertaining to the estate of each person deceased, under the name of such person ;
that pertaining to the general guardian of an infant, under the
name of such infant ; that pertaining to an insane person or drunkard, under his name: ‘ '
’ 2. A record of wills, in which must be recorded all wills proved before the surrogate with the certificates of probate thereof;
and of all wills proved elsewhere, upon which letters of administration are issued by him: '
i 3. A record of appointment of administrators, whether general
or special, and of executors: ~
A 4. A record of the appointment of general guardians of infants
and of committees of insane persons and drunkards:

5. A record of accounting’ and distribution, in which must be
entered a summary balance sheet of the accounts of administrators, and guardians and committees before him, with his orders
and judgments relating to the same; a memorandum of executions issued thereon, with a note of satisfaction when satisfied;
also, orders relating to the sale of real estate and to the distribution_of the proceeds thereof; and notices of all money or securities received by him, as proceeds of such sales, or otherwise; and
a statement, showing the names of creditors, and the debts established and entitled to distribution, the amount to which each
person is entitled out of the funds, and the amount actually paid
by him to each person, and when paid: _

6'. A record of the appointment of admeasurers of dower; with

all orders relating to the same, and the admeasurers’ report:

7. An order, book, in which must be entered orders made by
him directing the conduct of executors, administrators, guardians
or committees; orders for publication of notice to creditors; 01":
ders in behalf of creditors, directing debts to be paid, or allowing
an action to be commenced, or an execution to be issued ; appointments of special guardians, appraisers, referees and arbitrators; orders relating to the production of a will, to removal of
administrators, committees or guardians; in relation to snreties
for executors, administrators, committees or guardians; and all
other orders which lie is required to make in writing, and not required to be recorded in some other book: _

8. A book of fees, in which must be entered the items of all
fees f'or_ services in each particular proceeding or estate, and when
and by whom  i '

§ 1535. To each of such books there must be attached an index‘

securely bound in_ the volume, referring to the entries, in alphabetical order under the name of the person to whose estate or business they relate, and indicating the page of the book where the

entry is made.
§ 1536. The successor in oiiice of a surrogate has power to

complete any unfinished business commenced by his predecessor.

§ 1537. A surrogate cannot be counsel Jr "attorney in a civil
action, for or against any executor, administrator, guardian or
minor, committees or other person over whom or whose accounts
he would by law have jurisdiction; whether such action relate
to the businees of the estate or not.

§ 1538. Costs may be awarded in favor of one party against
another, to be paid personally out of the estate or fund, in any
proceedings contested adversely before the surrogate; but such
costs ‘cannot exceed those allowed in the supreme court, for a
trial in civil actions. Witnesses’ fees, and other disbursements
similar to those allowed in the supreme court, may also be
allowed. '

§ 1539. Orders for the payment of money may be enforced by
execution, or otherwise, in the same manner as judgments for the
payment of money in the supreme court; except, that in the
surrogate’s court, all process is issued by the surrogate.

§ 1540. Executions, w_arrants, and other process issued by a

‘surrogate, must be executed by the sheriff or coroner of the

county, to which they are sent to be executed, in the same manner, and with the same powers, responsibilities, and fees, as process issued from the supreme court.

CHAPTER II.

PROCEEDINGS IN CASES‘ OF INSANITY AND I-IABITUAL DRUNKENKE88.

§ 1541. The surrogate of the county has the care and custody
of the person and property ‘of idiots, lunatic-s, and other persons
of unsound mind, and of persons, who, in consequence of habitual
drunkenness, or for any other cause, are incapable of the proper
care and management ‘of their own property; all of whom are
known in this code as insane persons, or habitual drunkards.

§ 1542. For the purpose of exercising these powers, the court
Indy appoint a committee, or if necessary, two or three in each
case, whose duty it is,

1 . To take possession of the property of the person, and manage
the same in a manner proper to produce income, and to prevent
its being wasted or destroyed. ‘

2. To take the care and custody of such persons, and so ihr to
hold him in restraint, as may be necessary to prevent injury to
the person or property of himself or others.

3. To provide out of his property for the maintenance of such
person and his family,‘and the education of his children.

4. To make an inventory of his property, real and personal,
and to file the same in the surrogate’snii'1ce, immediately after

his appointment, and to keep and annually file in the surrogate’s
oilice, an account of all sums received and expended for the year,
verified by his oath.

§ 1543. The overseer of the poor of the town, or the superintendent of the poor of the county, where the insane person or
habitual drunkard resides, or any member of the family of such
insane person or drunkard, or any person related to him by blood
or marriage, who in case of his death, intestate, would be entitled

to any portion of his property, may apply to the surrogate for the
appointment of the committee.

§ 1514. Such application must be in writing, stating the facts

upon which it is founded, and verified by the affidavit of the
applicant, to the effect that he believes it to betrue.

§ 1545. Upon receiving the application, the surrogate must
immediately appoint at time and place in the town or city, where
the insane person or drunkard resides, to investigate the truth
of the allegations made in the application, which time must not
be less than eight nor more than sixteen days thereafter.

§ 1546. The surrogate must also issue a citation tothe insane
person, to appear at the time and place specified, and show cause,
if he have any, against the application. Such citation with a
copy of the application must be served by the sheriii‘, at least six
days before the time of appearance, on the insane person or
drunkard, and on some member of the family of such person, or
of the family in which he resides, if suitable age and discretion,
other than the applicant.

§ 1547. The surrogate must also issue to the sheriti‘ an order,
directing him to summon a jury of eighteen persons,—to be drawn
from a justicels jury box, of the town or city where the trial is to
be had, to appear at the time and place appointed for the investigation, and to determine the truth of ' the allegations made in
the application.

§ 1548. The jury must be drawn by the sheriff, in the present»
of the justice, and summoned pursuant to the surrogate’s order,
and a return thereof made, at the time and place speciiied, stating
the time and manner of summoning each juror.

§ 1549. At the time and place appointed, or at such other
time as the hearing may be adjourned to for cause _shown, the
surrogate must attend,.and draw, and empanell a jury of twelve
persons, in the same manner as a jury is drawn by a justice for
the trial of civil actions. When the jury is completed, it must
be sworn by the surrogate, to investigate the truth of the matters

stated in the application, and to dud a true inquisition thereon,
according to the evidence.

§ 1550. The surrogate must preside at the trial, and decide’ all
questions of law arising therein,and the trial must be conducted
in all respects like a trial.in a civil action, except as otherwise

provided in this chapter. ,
§ 1551. Upon such trial, the alleged insane person or drunkard

may appear by counsel, and may produce witnesses on his part.
But, whether he appear or not, the applicant must prove the
truth of the allegations made in his application.

§ 1552. The inquisition of the jury must be in writing, subscribed by at least nine of the jurors, and must declare that there
exists no sufficient. reason for a committee, or that the person’ is
in one of the conditions mentioned in section 336, specifying
which of them. The surrogate must instruct the jury as to the
form of the inquisition, and it may be found and subscribed in
his presence, but he can take no part in the deliberation of the
jury, nor advise them in respect to their decision, except on questions of law.

§ 1553. If the jury find that the person is in one of the conditions mentioned in section 1541, the surrogate must immediately
appoint a committee for him.. When the application is for 'a
cause other than habitual drunkenness, the jury must state in the
inquisition whether or not, in their opinion, the disability is
likely to be permanent. If the jury find that there exists no

sufficient reason for a committee the application must be dismissed. '

§ 1554. The appointment must be in writing, and must define,

the general duties of the committee, as prescribed in section
1542. It must be recorded in the surrogate’s office, in the book
where the appointment of general guardians is recorded. The
committee must also give public notice of his appointment, by

advertisement in a newspaper printed and published in the a
county. '1

§ 1555. The committee must be sworn to execute faithfully the
duties of‘ his trust, according to the best of his ability. ’ He must
also give security in the same manner, and to the same efect as
the general guardian of an infant. The oath and undertaking

must be filed in the surrogate’s oilice.
§ 1556. The surrogate must also appoint appraisers; and an

inventory and appraisal of all the personal property of the insane person must be taken, verified and returned in the same
manner and with the same e&'ect as in the case of administration

of the estate of a deceased person, except that it must contain,
also, a description of the real property and .a valuation by the
appraisers of the annual income of each parcel thereof.

§ 1557. The powers and responsibilities of a committee, in the
execution and trust reposed in him, as prescribed by section 1542,
are, in all respects, like those of a general guardian in respect to
an infant and his estate, except as in this chapter otherwise proVided. A ‘ e

§ 1558. In the payment of debts the committee must be governed by the same rules as those which regulate the conduct of
administrators.

§ 1559. When there is not personal property suiiicient, with
the income of the real property, for the payment of the debts, or

for the proper maintenance of the insane person or drunkard
person and his family, the surrogate may, upon a proper accounting by the committee of the personal and of the income of the
real property, order the real property, or such part thereof as he
may deem necessary, to be sold or mortgaged to procure the necessary funds therefore.

§ 1560. When the inquisition does not state that the disability
is likely to be permanent, the surrogate must, before ordering a
sale, ascertain the probable necessary expenditure over the annual income, for a period not exceeding three years, in advance,
and must limit the sale or mortgage to so much of the real property as can be sold or mortgaged separately, without material
injury to the _residue of the property, and as may be suilicient to
raise such sum, and in all cases he must first ascertain, by evidance, the present condition of the person. Further sales or '

mortgages may be ordered, from time to time, as may be necessary.
§ 1561. The proceedings for a sale or mortgage'must be conducted, in all respects, in the same manner as for a sale by administrators, except as herein otherwise provided; but the proceeds of sales, instead of being paid to the surrogate, are to be
placed in the hands of the committee.

§ 1562. The committee may be required to give new or additional security, or to render an account, and may be removed.
He is also subject, in all other respects, to the control and direction of the surrogate, in the same manner as the general guardian
of an infant.

§ 1563. The committee has power, under the direction of a
court of competent jurisdiction, to execute a conveyance of real

property, or to do any other act in the specified performance of a
contract made by the insane person or drunkard when he was
capable to contract. .

§ 1564. The power of a committee ceases, upon the death of the
insane person, and also when the disability in respect to which

he was appointed, has been adjudged by the surrogate to have
ceased, or when he has been removed for any cause as provided

in the next two sections.
§ 1565. Upon application to the surrogate to remove a committee or to revoke appointment, made upon the affidavits of at least
two respectable persons, showing misconduct of the committee, or
that the disability, in respect to which the committee was appointed, has ceased, a citation must be issued to the committee,

to the person upon whose application he was appointed, if living
within the county, and .to the next of kin, if any, within the
county, who are of full age, to show cause, if they have any, why
the appointment of the committee should not be removed or his

appointment revoked.

§ 1566. The citation mustjbe served at least fourteen days before the time appointed for the hearing. Upon its return duly
served, or upon another day to which the hearing may be adjourned, the surrogate must hear the evidence otfered for and
against the application. If sufiicient cause ‘for the continuance

of the committee be not shown, the surrogate must _by an orderdeclare, that the disability, in respect to which the committee

was appointed, has ceased, that the powers of the committee are
thereforee revoked, and that the party for whom he was appointed

is restored to his original rights. If misconduct of the committee
be established, he must be removed and another appointed in his
place. _

§ 1567. The fees of the surrogate, on the appointment of a committee, are the same, as on the proof of a will, and for his removal, and the proceedings in relation thereto, the same as for similar services in case of administrators. Upon a trial before him,

the surrogate may order costs to be paid,eitl1er by a party, or out
of the fund or estate, to any other party, not exceeding the costs

allowed for the trial of a civil action.

CHAPTER III.

APPEAL FROM svnnocuns’ COURTS. '

§ 1568. An appeal may betaken to the supreme court from a
judgment or order in a surrogate’s court, in the following cases:
1. An order admitting a will to record of probate, or refusing

the same:

2. An order‘ appointing a person administrator, executor or
collector, guardian of an infant, or a committee of an insane per‘son, or removing him, or refusing to make such appointment or
removal : b

3. An order directing real property to be sold, mortgaged or
leased, or confirming the same: ; , I

4. An order or judgment by which a debt, claim, legacy, or
distributive share is allowed, or payment thereof directed, or such
allowance or direction refused :

5. Judgment upon accounting, by an executor, administrator,
guardian or committee, including an intermediate order involving
the merits and necessarily affecting such judgment.

§ 1569. The appeal can only be taken by a party aggrieved,
who appeared and moved for or opposed the order or judgment
appealed from, or who being entitled to be heard thereon, had no
notice or opportunity to he heard; the latter fact to be shown by

affidavit, and filed and served with the notice.

§ 1570. The appeal may be taken upon questions of fact or of
law, and must be heard upon a statement of the case, to be made
and settled before the surrogate, in the manner provided in section

800, and in giving judgment thereon, the decision upon the facts
when separate from the questions of law, is iinal.

§ 1571. The appeal must be taken within thirty days after notice of the order or judgment appealed from, but such appeal does
not aifect the order appealed from, unless, upon motion, the su'preme court, on cause shown, direct a suspension of the order,
until the appeal is determined.

§ 1572. The appeal is made by the service of a notice on the
adverse party, stating the appeal from the order or judgment, or

some specified part thereof, and filing a copy of the notice in the

office of the surrogate and of the county clerk, together with an
undertaking with sufiicientsurety, approved by the surrogate or
county judge, and filed in the surrogate’s oiiice, to the effect that

the party will prosecute his appeal with due diligence to a determination, and will pay all costs that may be adjudged against him
in the supreme court thereon.


CHAPTER I.

PIOCEEDING8 OF INSOLVRNT T0 DISCHARGE HIMSELF FROM AN 1M‘
PBISONMENT ON EXECUTION.

§ 1573. An insolvent who has been imprisoned on execution
for thirty days, may be discharged from the imprisonment, as
provided in this chapter.

§ 1574. He must present to the county court of the county
where he is imprisoned, an application in writing, verified by his
oath, setting forth the fact of his imprisonment, the amount, kind,
and particulars of his property, and the amount, nature, and par?
ticulars of his debts, with the names and residence of the creditors, so far as they are known or can be ascertained by him,. and
asking for his discharge from the imprisonment.

§ 1575. He must at the same time prove by affidavit, or admission in writing, that a copy of the application, with notice of

presenting the same at a specined time and place, has been served
on the judgment creditor, upon whose execution the insolvent is

imprisoned, at least ten days before the application, - in the same
manner as a notice of motion in an action.

§ 1576. The application is to be heard in the same manner as

any other motion, _ and if it be shown to the satisfaction of the a

court, that the allegations of the application are true, that the
applicant is insolvent, that he does not conceal any of his property, and that he has not, after knowing his insolvency, and within “

six months before his application, given a preferenceto a creditor
for an antecedent debt, by any payment or disposition of his
property, the court may make an order, declaring that the applicant is an insolvent debtor, and appointing a receiver of his proP°P¢Y- .

§ 1577. Upon a certihcate of the receiver, upon a copy of the
inventory, that the insolvent has transferred and delivered to him
all the property specified therein, excepting property exempt from
execution, to be therein specified, with all books, instruments and
papers relating thereto, and after due notice to the judgment creditor, the court may make an order, discharging the insolvent from

his imprisonment; but such discharge shall not affect the judgment, nor any other remedy for the collection thereof, other than

againstthe person of the insolvent.

§ 1578. The receiver must proceed in the conversion of the
propertyinto money, and the distribution thereof among the creditors existing at the time of the application, whether their demands are due or not, according to their several rights, giving no

preference, except where a preference is required by the statutes
of this state or of the United States, and must deliver the surplus to the insolvent, under the direction of the court. The receiver is at all times subject to the control of the court, until his
hnal discharge by its order. If other property of the insolvent,
not stated in the inventory, be discovered by the receiver,it must
be deemed a part of the property assigned, and the receiver ‘must
collect the same and account therefore.

CHAPTER 11. 

PEOCIIDINGS OF INSOLVENT T0 DISCHARGE HIMSELF FROM DEBT.

§ 1679. Any insolvent, who, at the time of his application, has
resided in this state five years, may present to the county court of
the county where he resides, an application in writing, verified
by his oath, setting forth the fact of his insolvency, the amount,
kind, and particulars of his property, and the amount, nature and
particulars of his debts, specifying the residence of his creditors,
so far as they are known or can be ascertained by him, alleging

that he has not given a preference as speciiied in section 1576,

and asking a discharge from his debts.

§ 1580. Upon receiving" the application, the court may make
an order, requiring the creditors of the insolvent to show cause
if they have any, before the court, at a specified time and place,
not less than three months thereafter, why the application should
notbe granted, and directing the publication once a week for ten
weeks of the application, or a condensed statement thereof, and

of the order, in the state paper and in two other newspapers
which the court may designate as most likely to give notice to

the creditors. .
§ 1581. At a time and place specified, upon proof of the publication in conformity with the order, and also that a copy of one
of the papers containing the application or statement, and order,

was deposited in the post oiiice, at least nine weeks previously,
directed to each creditor within the United States, at his residence, when such residence is stated in the application, the
court may proceed to hear the application.

§ 1582. If a creditor appear and deny any of the material allegations of the application, or allege that the applicant has
fraudulently contracted the debt to such creditor, or that such
creditor, or that such debt arose from a fraudulent misapplication by the applicant of the property of another, or that since it
was contracted, .the applicant, if a merchant, has not kept proper

book of account; the court may either try the question_of fact,
or may order it to be tried by a jury or by referees.

§ 1583. If such denial or allegation be not made, or if made

he found on the trial to be untrue, the court may make an order"

declaring that the applicant is an insolvent debtor, and appointing a receiver of his property not exempt from execution ; the

‘receiver must givethe certificate, and has the power and is subject to the responsibilities mentioned in_section 1578.

§ 1584. Upon the final report of the receiver, showing the collection and conversion into available assets, of all the property of
the insolvent, not exempt from execution, and the proper application and payment thereof, if it appear that at least twenty-live
per cent of each of the insolvent’s debts contracted before his
application, has been paid, or a dividend to that extent offered
and set apart thereon, or that two-thirds in amount of his creditors have consented thereto in writing, the court may order that ,
the insolvent be discharged from all such debts of the following '

kinds : _ ‘ ,
_ 1. Debts due to persons who were residents of this state at the
time of the application :

2. Debts contracted in this state:
3. Debts due to creditors who have received a dividend from

the receiver. \
But such order in no case discharges a debt arising out of a

fraudulent misapplication of the property of another, nor does it

affect the liability of another person who is liable justly with the

insolvent.

CHAPTER III. "

paocnanrzms or A caanrroa 'r_o cLosE rm; arr-.uas or an INSOLvan-r.

§ 1585. Any creditor residing in this state,having a claim arising on contract, and already due, to the amount of five hundred
dollars, against a debtor residing in this state, may apply to the
county court, of the county where the debtor resides, to declare
him insolvent, and close his affairs, in any of the following cases:

1. When he has fraudulently contracted the debt to such creditor : '
2. When he has concealed, removed or disposed of some part
of his property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his
creditors: _ '

3. When an execution against his property has been returned
unsatisfied in whole or in part: or, '

4. When a promissory note made by him or a bill of exchange
accepted by him, while engaged in the business of a merchant,
broker, factor or banker, and owned by the creditor, has fallen
due, and has remained unpaid and under protest for at least ten
days before the application, without notice from the debtor, that
he has a valid defense to such note or bill, accompanied by an
offer of good security for the payment of any judgment that may
be recovered thereon. . e 1 '

§ 1586. The application must be in writing, verified by the
affidavit of the creditor, or another person, and showing that the
case is within the last section, and asking that a receiver of the
property of the insolvent may be appointed and his affairs
closed. »

§ 1587. Upon receiving such application, the court may make
an order, requiring the defendant to show cause at a specified
time and place, why the application should not be granted; and
if, then or at any time afterwards, there appear to be danger of
the defendant’s disposing of property, to the prejudice of the
application, the court may grant an injunction against any disposition thereof. '

§ 1588. At the time and place specified, upon proof of the personal service of the order to show cause, the court may proceed
to hear the application. '

Ifthe defendant appear and deny any of the material allegations of the application, the court must order the question of fact

to be tried by a jury, or, if the defendant waive a trial by jury,‘

may itself try the question, or may order a trial thereof by referees.

§ 1589. If such denial be not made, or, if made, he found on
the trial to be untme, the court may make an order, declaring that

the defendant is an insolvent debtor, within one of the subdivisions of section 1585, specifying which, and appointing a receiver
of his property. ' ' '

§ 1590. The receiver must immediately publish notice of his

appointment in the state paper, and in two other newspapers‘

designated by the court, for such time as the court may direct;
and, from the time of his appointment he is vested with all the

property of the insolvent debtor not exempt from execution. The
court may compel the transfer and delivery by the insolvent

debtor of any of his property, in the manner mentioned in section . "And section 1578 is applicable to the receiver appointed under this chapter.

TITLE XI.

01-‘ THE LDMEASUREMENT OF DOWER.

§ 1591. A widow’s dower in the realproperty of her deceased
husband, may be admeasured and set on‘ to her, at any time after

the death of her husband, by agreement -between her and the

heirs or other owners in fee thereof, who are of full age and competent to contract; or it may be set off by referees, appointed as
herein after provided. =

§ 1592. The widow may, at any time within twenty years
from the death of her husband, by a notice in writing, demand the
admeasurement of her dower from the heirs of her husband, or
other owners in fee, or persons in possession of real property in

which she is entitled to dower; and in like manner, the heirs of
the deceased husband, or other owners in fee of real property in which a widow is entitled to dower, may, by notice in
writing, offer to set oil‘ to her dower therein. '

§ 1593. Such demand or notice must specify the lands in which
the right of dower exists or is claimed, in an intelligible manner,
and must nominate three disinterested freeholders, who are not of
Iin to either party, as referees, to admeasure the same ; and must
designate a place and time, not less than ten nor more than forty
days from the time of service, at which application will be made
to a court having jurisdiction, for an order appointing the referees.
Service thereof may be made and proved, in the same manner as
the service of a summons in a civil action, except by publication.

§ 1594. Upon application to the court, at the time and place

specified, or at such other time as the court may designate, proof
by affidavit of the applicant or other person, must be made to
the satisfaction of the court, of the right of the widow to'dower
in the property, and thereupon the court must appoint three
referees to make the admeasurement.

§ 1595. The referees must be freeholders residing in the county
where the real property or some part of it lies, and must be per

sons _named by the parties or one of them, unless, reasonable
objection to them be made. The order of appointment must describe the property, out of which dower is to be admeasured,and
specify the time when the report must be made.

§ 1596. The referees, before entering upon their duties, must

be sworn, before some person authorized to administer oaths, that
they will honestly and faithfully execute the trust reposed in
them by the appointment.

§ 1597. If the persons so appointed referees, or either of them
die, resign, or fail to serve, others may be appointed in their
places, by the court which appointed the first referees, and must
take the same oath.

§ 1598. The referees, so appointed, must execute their duties
as follows :

1. They must admeasure and lay oil‘, as speedily as possible,
the one-third part of the real property, embraced inthe order for
their appointment, as the dower of such widow, designating such
part by posts, stones, or other permanent monuments:

2. In making such admeasurement, they must take into view,
any permanent improvement made upon the property embraced
in the order by any heir, guardian of a minor, or other owner,
since the death of the husband, or since the alienation thereof,
by him ; and, if practicable, must award such improvements
within that part of the property not allotted to the widow; and
if not practicable so to award the same, they must make a deduction from the property allotted to the widow, proportionate to the
benefit she will derive from such part of the improvements, as
may be included in the portion assigned to her :

3. They must make a full report of their proceedings, with the
quantity, and description of the property, admeasured and allotted by them to the widow, mentioning the posts, stones, and other
permanent monuments thereof, and the items of their charges, to
the court by which they were appointed, at the time specihed in

the order for their appointment:

4. They may employ a surveyor, with the necessary assistants,
to aid them in such admeasurement. ‘

§ 1599. The court appointing such referees, may, upon their
application, or that of either party, enlarge the time for making

their report; and may, by order, compel such report, or discharge
the referees neglecting to make the same, and appoint others in
their places.

§ 1600. The courtto whom the report is made, may, at the
time appointed for receiving the same, or at such other time to
which the hearing may be adjourned, on good ‘cause shown, set

aside the report, and appoint, as often as may be necessary, new
referees, who shall proceed in the manner herein after directed ;

and, if not set aside, the court must, by order, coniirm the report
and admeasurement. ‘

§ 1601. The admeasurement so made and confirmed, shall, at
the expiration of twenty days from the date of such coniirmation,
unless appealed from, be binding and conclusive, as to the location and extent of the widow’s right of dower, on the parties
who applied for the same, and on all parties to whom notice has

been given, as herein after directed. But no person shall be precluded thereby from controverting the right of such widow to ‘

the dower so admeasured.

§ 1602. The widow to whom dower is admeasured, after the
expiration of twenty days from the date of the confirmation,

unless the same be appealed from, may, if possession be withheld
or her right denied, bring an action to recover the possession of

the lands so admeasured to her for her dower, and, upon recovery,
may hold the same during her life, subject to the payment of all
taxes and charges accruing thereon, subsequent to her taking
possession. T

§ 1603. The order of a court, confirming the admeasurement
of dower, may be reviewed, by appeal in the same manner as a
judgment’ in an action in the same court, and the manner of
bringing an appeal, and the security required thereon, must be in
conformity with similar proceedings in civil actions.

§ 1604. The appellate court may, on such appeal, affirm or reverse ’the order, and may require a new ‘ admeasurement by the

same or new referees, to be appointed by the appellate court, if
the appeal he to the supreme court, or by the court in which the
proceedings were originally had,- if the appellate court so direct.

Proceedings upon a second or ‘other subsequent report may be
had in all respects as on the first. '

§ 1605. Such reasonable sum, for the costs of the party applying for the admeasurement, as may be certified by the, court, not

exceeding twenty dollars, for each parcel of land out of which
dcwer, may be separately admeasured, besides referees’ fees and
other disbursements, must be paid,_one-half by the widow and
the other half by the adverse party. The allowance of costs on

the appeal is in the discretion of the appellate court, but when
allowed, they must be at the rate allowed on appeals, to the same

court,‘ in civil actions.

§ 1606. When dcwer is admeasured pursuant to the provisions
of this title, and the right to dcwer is disputed, if in an action
brought by the widow to recover possession, she fail to. establish
her right, the share of the costs on admeasurement, which may
have been paid by the other party, may be added to the costs of
the defense in such action; and it’ the dcwer be withheld from
her and she fail for two years to bring an action for the recovery
thereof, she shall be liable in an action ‘to the other party for the
expenses of admeasurement paid by him.

TITLE XII.

OF MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.

CHAPTER I.

DISPOSITION OF THE REAL PROPERTY OF -INFANTS.

§ 1607. A conveyance by an infant, of real property, owned or

held by him, may be ordered by the supreme court in an action
in either of the following cases:

1. When the property is held in trust, for another:
2. When an agreement to convey the property has been made,

and the agreement ought to be specifically performed by the infant. When so ordered, the conveyance is as effectual as if the
infant wereof full age. But nothing in this chapter affects a
sale of infants’ estate when made, as provided in special statutes,
by an executor or administrator,upon an order of the surrogate’s
court.

§ 1608. The real property and leasehold estate of an infant,
may be sold or mortgaged under the direction of the supreme
court, or the county court of the county. in a special proceeding,
on the application in writing of the general guardian or some

person next of kin of the infant, for him, in either 9f the following cases:

1. When the sale or mortgage is necessary for the infant’s support or education: .

2. When the interest of. the infant will be promoted by it, by
reason of the unproductiveness of the property or its being exposed to waste or for any other peculiar circumstances. But such
sale or mortgage can in no case be made contrary to the provisions of the will or conveyance by which the property was devised or granted to the infant. The application must state the
grounds therefore and must be verified as a complaint in an action.

§ 1609. A copy of the application must be served by delivery
in the manner required for the service of a summons to commence
an action against an infant, with a notice stating that the same
will be presented to the court at a specified time and place, and
that application to appoint a special guardian will then be made.
The service must be at least ten days before the time of application, and two days in addition for every hftyimiles distance from
the residence of the infant to the place specified. ‘

§ 1610. Upon the day specified, or some other day to which
the hearing shall be then adjourned, the court must appoint a
suitable person to be special guardian tor the infant in the proceedings to be had thereon; or two or more such guardians may
be appointed. '

§ 1611. Before the appointment of the guardian can be effectual, and before any further proceedings can be had, security
must be given by the guardian, to the infant, to be approved by
the court, and in such sum as the court may by an order direct,
faithfully to perform the trust reposed in him, and to account
for and apply all monies received by him under the directions
of the court.

§ 1612. The security must bean undertaking of the guardian,
either with one or more‘ sufiicient sureties, who must justify, in

the manner required for bail on arrest in an action; or with security by mortgage on unincumbered real property in the county
where the real property lies, or the infant resides, worth, exclusive of buildings thereon, double the value of the amount of security required. . 

§ 1613. Upon security being given and upon at least eight

days notice to the special guardian, or upon his consent without
notice, the court‘ must proceed to hear the evidence for and
against the application, or may order a reference, as in an action,
to ascertain and report the facts. - '

§ 1614. Upon the hearing, or in ,case of reference, upon the
report of the referee, the court must by an order grant or refuse
the application. If granted, the order may direct either a sale
or a mortgage of the whole orany part of the property, and must
contain a description of the same. 

§ 1615. Upon a report to the court, veriiied by the oath of the
guardian, of an agreement for the sale or mortgage of the property, subject to the approval of the court, it must confirm or disapprove the same; if approved, a conveyance must be given by
the guardian under the direction of the court. The report of the

agreement may be made at the time of the hearing or afterwards.
§ 1616. The court must make such order for the application

and disposition of the proceeds of the sale or mortgage, and for
the investment of the same or any part thereof, as it shall deem

best for the benefit of the infant, and must require accounts to be
rendered periodically by the guardian or other person entrusted
with the disposition of the proceeds or its income. Such proceeds shall be deemed real property of the same nature as the
property disposed of.

§ 1617. Where property is subject to dower, and the person .

entitled thereto consents in writing to accepts gross sum in place
thereof, or the income during life of a penmanent investment of a
reasonable sum, the court may ascertain and direct‘the payment
of such sum out of the proceeds of the property, or the investment thereof and the payment of the income, as may be deemed
reasonable and may be acceptable to the person entitled. If no
such consent be given the sale or mortgage must be made subject
to the right of dower. Before any sum shall be paid or investment made, an eifectual release of the right of (lower must 

made.

§ 1618. When there are several infants owning real estate as
tenants in common or joint tenants, they may all be united in one
application, but the security of the guardian must be to each severally.

§ 1619. The costs and expenses of the proceedings, not to exceed twenty-five dollars when there is but one infant, and ten dollars for each additional one embraced in the same‘ application,
may be paid by the order of the court from the proceeds of the

property.
CHAPTER II.

DISCOVERING THE DEATH OF A PERSON ON WHOSE LIFE AN ESTATE
DEPENDS.

§ 1620. A person entitled to claim real property, or the profits
thereof, after the death of another who is entitled to a prior estate, or interest therein, may, once a year, by motion, apply to the
supreme court for an order, that the person, upon whose life such
prior estate depends, be produced. ~

§ 1621. The application mustbe made upon affidavit, showing,

1. The interest of the applicant in the real property which is
the subject of the application, describing it, with the grounds
thereof: . '

2. The belief of the applicant that the person upon whose life
the estate depends, is dead, and that his death is concealed by the
party against whom the application is made.

§ 1622. The motion must be upon previous notice, of a least
twenty’ days, and must be made at a special term, where a motion
might be made in an action triable in the county where the real
property is situated.

§ 1623. Upon such motion, the court may make an order, requiring the production and proof of the identity of the person
upon whose life the estate depends, and in default of his production, may require of the party against whom the application is
made, proof of his existence, with satisfactory reasons for his absence; Suc_h evidence may be taken in open court or by reference,

. or by commission to another state or county, together with any

other evidence, which may be necessary to the question of the
existence of such person. Such order must then be made declaring the existence or death of the person, as may be in the judgment of the court conformable to the fact. This order is primary

evidence of the facts therein determined.

§ 1621. Costs on such application, and the proceedings founded
thereon, not to exceed twenty-five dollars, may, in the discretion

of the court, be ordered to be paid, by either party, to the other.

§ 1625. An estate, which shall have been recovered upon the
presumption or proof of the ‘death of a person, pursuant to this chapter, must be restored to-the party from whom it was recover»
ed, or to his heirs, or representatives, with the issues and pronb
in the meantime, if it be established that such ‘ person is living.

CHAPTER III.

THE GOLLECTIONAND REXIBSION OF FINES AND FORI-‘EITUBI3.

§ 1626. Every order imposing" a fine, except upon ‘conviction
for a public oifence, must contain a direction that the delinquent
be imprisoned until the fine be paid; not to exceed one day for
every two dollars of the fine.

§ 1627. The clerk, immediately after the imposition of a line,
must deliver to the sherili‘ a certified copy of the ' order imposing
it, and transmit a copy of the same to the treasurer of the county.’

Oneorder may provide for the collection of all the fines imposed
at the same court. 3

§ 1628. The sherin‘ must proceed to collect the fines, or to im;
prison the delinquents named in the order, and within sixty days
from the time of receiving the copy of the order, must pay over
to the county treasurer the fines collected by him, and file his
return in the county clerk’s office, showing the manner in which
he has executed the order, stating the amount paid to the county
treasurer, if any. Fines imposed by a city court must be paid
into the city treasury.

§ 1629. The sheriff ‘is liable to the county or city for the amount
of every {fine specified in the order, unless it appear by his return
that the person, on whom the fine was imposed, has been arrested
or could not be found. Such liability may be enforced by action
in the supreme court or by motion in the’ county court. The
sheriff is liable by action for a false return.

§ 1630. When an undertaking or the condition of a recognizance, in a criminal action, is by any court declared broken, the

court in which it is filed, or the county court of the county where .

it is filed, may order the same to be prosecuted. If judgment be
given for the plaintifff in such action, it must be for the penalty
or sum specified in the undertaking.

§ 1631. The county court may, except in the cases specified in
the next section, remit wholly or partly fines imposed or forfeitures
declared by any court in the county, on application and cause

shown, and on such terms as may be deemed just. If the line or
forfeiture remitted shall have been paid, the officer in whose hands

it may he, must refund the same, or the part thereof remitted
upon an order of the court to that eifect. .
§ 1632. Finesimposed on conviction of a public offense or for

(actual contempt of a court, or for disobedience to its orders or .

‘process, can only be remitted by the officer or court by which they

were imposed, and that on cause shown, upon notice to the district
attorney. An undertaking entered into in one county, for the

appearance of a person in another, can only be remitted or discharged by the court in which such person was bound to appear,
or by the county court of that county, after the time designated
for such appearance, and then only upon notice to the district attorney and on cause shown.

§ 1633. Summary judgment upon an undertaking declared for_ feited, may be ordered by the court, without action, on motion of

the district attorney, after ten days previous notice to the adverse
party,"of the application for the forfeiture and for judgment thereon.

CHAPTER IV.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

§ 1634. From the judgment of a county or city court, in any
special proceeding, except when otherwise expressly prescribed

by this code, an appeal may be taken to the supreme court, and
thence to the court of appeals.

§ 1635. From any judgment rendered in a special proceeding,
at a special term of the supreme _court, superior court of the city
of New-York, and the court of common pleas of the city of NewYork, an appeal may be taken to the general term of the same
court, and thence to the court of appeals, except when otherwise
expressly prescribed by this code.

§ 1636. The appeal mentioned in the last two sections,must be
taken in the same’ manner, within the same time, and upon the
same security, as an appeal from a judgment in a civil action, except as otherwise expressly provided by a particular provision of
this code.

§ 1637. In special proceedings where‘ the costs are not\by this
code defined, the court may, in its discretion, require costs to be
paid by any party to another, or to be paid from the fund which

is the subject of the proceeding. The costs allowed must be a
fixed sum, to be determined by the court, on the hearing, or afterwards on motion, and must not exceed the rate of costs allowed for similar services in actions.

§ 1638. Amendments in furtherance of justice may be allowed
by any court or judicial officer in a special proceeding before him,
in every stage thereof, upon such terms as to costs or otherwise,
as may be proper; and a substitution may, in the same manner

he allowed of _a successor in interest, in place of a party, when by_

reason of death or other cause it becomes proper.

§ 1639. When the mode of proceeding in the cases contemplated in this part is not herein specified, that mode may be adopted
which is used in analogous cases in civil actions.

PART  or EVIDENCE.
GENERAL mzmmxous

§ 1640. Judicial evidence is the means, sanctioned by law,_oif
ascertainingin a judicial proceeding the truth respecting a ques:

tion of fact.

TITLE I.

OF THE KINDS AND DEGREES OF EVIDENCE.

CHAPTER I.

WITNESSec.

§ 1641. A witness is a person whose declaration under oath is
received as evidence for any purpose, whether such declaration be
made on oral examination, or by deposition or aiiidavit.

§ 1642. All persons may be witnesses without exception.

Therefore neither parties, nor other persons who have an interest
in the event of an action or proceeding, are excluded; nor those

who have been convicted of crime; nor persons on account of

.their opinions on matters of religious belief: although in every

case, the credibility of the witness may be drawn in question.
§ 1643. The following persons are not admissible:
'1. ‘Those who are of unsound mind at the time of their production for examination:
*2. Children ten years of age,who appear incapable of receiving
just'impres_sions of the facts,respecting which they are examined,

‘or of relating them truly.

3. A husband cannot be examined, for or against his vvife,
viithout her consent, nor a vvife, for or against her husband,without his consent, nor can either, during the marriage or after-,
wards, be, without consent of the other, examined, as to any com-,

munication made by one to the other during the marriage. But
this exception does not apply to a civil action or proceeding, by
one against the other, nor to a criminal action or proceeding, for

a crime committed by one against the other :
4. An attorney cannot, without the consent of his client, be

examined, as to any communication made by the client to him,
or his advice given thereon, in the course of professional employmeat:
‘6. A clergyman, 'or=priest, cannot, without the consent of the
person making the confession, be examined as to any confessionmade to *him"in his professional character, in ‘the course of discipline, enjoined by the church to which he belongs:

-6. A licensed or practising physician oi-‘surgeon cannot, :vvithout the consent of his patient, be examined, in a‘ civil action, as
to any information acquired in attending the patient, whichwas
necessary to enable him to prescribe or act for the patient :

‘I. A public oiiicer cannot be examined as to communications
made to him in ofhcial confidence, when thepublic interests would
su£‘er by the disclosure. ‘ .

§ 1644. If a person oifer himself as ‘a witness, that is to be

deemed a consent to the examination also, of a wife, husband, attorney, clergyman, physician or surgeon, on the same subject,

within the meaning of the first four subdivisions of the last section. 

CHAPTER II.

WRITINGS.

ARTICLE I.

wnrrrnes In GENERAL.

§ 1645. Writings are of two kinds: 
1. Public: and,
2. Private. 

§ 1646. Public writings are:

1. The written acts, or records of the acts, and of the sovereign
authority, of official bodies and tribunals, and of public oiiicers,
legislative, judicial and executive, whether of this state, of the
United States, of a sister state, or of a foreign country:

2. Public records, kept in this state, of private writings.

§ 1647. All other writings are private.

ARTICLE II.’
PUBLIC WRITINGS.

§ 1648. Every citizen has a right to inspect, and take a copy
of, any public writing of this State, except as otherwise expressly
provided by statute. ‘ ~ ,

§ 1649. Every public oiiicer, having the custody of a public
writing of this state, which a citizen has a right to inspect, is

bound to give him, on demand, a certified copy of it, on payment '

of the legal fees therefore, and such copy is primary as evidence
of the original writing. ‘

§ 1650. Books, printed or published, under the authority of
a sister State, or foreign country, and purporting to contain the
statutes, code, or other written law, of such state or count1'y,,or
proved to be commonly admitted in the tribunals of such state,
or country, as evidence of the written law thereof, are admissible
in this state, as evidence of such law.

§ 1651. The public seal;of the state or country, affixed to a
copy of a written law, or other public writing, is also admissible

as evidence of such law or writing.

§ 1652. The oral testimony of witnesses skilled therein, is admissible as evidence of thefunwritten law, of a sister state, or
foreign country, as are also printed and published books of reports of decisions of the courts of such state, or country, or proved
to be commonly admitted in such courts. '

§ 1653. The recitals in a public statute, are conclusive evidence of the facts recited for the purpose of carrying it into eifect,
but no further. The recitals in a private statute, are conclusive
evidence between parties who claim under its provisions, _ but no

further.

§ 1654. A judical record, is the record‘ or official entry of the
‘proceedings in the court of justice, or of the official act of a judical officer, in an action or special proceeding.

§ 1655. A judical record of this state, or of the United States,
may be proved by the production of the original, or by a copy
thereof, certified by the clerk, or other person having the legal,
custody thereof‘. That of a sister state, may be proved by the
attestation of the clerk, and the seal of the court annexed, if

there be a clerk and seal, together with a certificate of the chief
judge, or presiding magistrate, that the attestation is in due form.
§ 1656. A judical record of a foreign country, may be proved
by the attestation of the clerk, with the seal of the court annexed, if there be a clerk and seal, or of the legal keeper of the
record with the seal of his office annexed, if there be a seal,

together with a certificate of the chief judge, or presiding magis‘ trate', that the person making the attestation is the clerk of the

court, or the legal keeper of I the record, and in either case, that
the signature of such person is genuine; and also together with
the certificate of the secretary of state, or other officer of the
government,under whose authority the record is kept, having
the custody of the great or principal seal of such government, to
the efect that the court or officer, whose judical act is certified,
had jurisdiction to perform such act, and verifying the signature
of the clerk, or other legal keeper of the record, and also verifying the signature of the chief judge, or presiding magistrate.

§ 1657. A copy of the judical record of a foreign country is

also admissible in evidence upon proof. . e
1. That the copy offered has been compared by the witness

with the original, and is an exact transcript of the whole of it.
2. That such original was in the custody of the clerk of the
court, or other legal keeper of the same, and

3. That the copy is duly attested by a seal, which is proved to
be the seal of the court where the record remains, if it begtho
record of a court, or if there be no such seal, or if it be not)
record of a court, by the signature of the legal keeper of the
original.

§ 1658. Other oilicial documents maybe proved as follows:

1. Acts of the executive of this State, by the records of the

State department of the State, and of the United States, by the

records of the State department of the United States, certified by
the heads of those departments respectively; they may also be
proved by public documents, printed by order of the Legislature
or Congress, or either house thereof: ‘

2. The proceedings of the Legislature of this State, or of Congress, by the journals of those bodies respectively, or either house
thereof, or by published statutes or resolutions, or by copies certified by the clerk, or printed by their order : .

3. The acts of the executive or the proceedings of the Legis1a- .

ture of a sister State, in the same manner:

4. The acts of the executive or the proceedings of the Legislature of a foreign country, by journals published by their authoo
zity or commonly received in that country as such, or by a copy
certified, under the seal of the country or sovereign, or by a
recognition thereof, in some public act of the executive of the
United States: _ '

5. Acts of a municipal corporation of this State, or of a board
or department thereof, by a copy certified by the legal keeper
thereof, or by a printed book, published by the authority of such
corporation:

“- 6. Documents of any other class in this State, by the original,
-or by a copy certifed by the legal keeper thereof:

11 . Documents of any other class in a sister State, by the origi‘nal, or by a copy certih'ed by the legal keeper thereof, together
with the certificate of the Secretary of State, judge of the supreme, superior, or county court, or mayor of a city of such
State that the copy is duly certified’ by the officer having the

legal custody of the original:
8”. Documents of any other class in a foreign country,-by the

original, or by a copy certihed by the legal keeper thereof, with
a certificate under the seal of‘ the country orsovereign that the
document is a valid and subsisting document of such country,
and that the copy is duly certined ‘by the officer having the legal
custody of the original. ‘

§ 1659. A public record of a private writing may be proved by
the original record, or by a copy thereof, certified by the legal
keeper of the record-.

§ 1660. Entries in public or other otlicial books or records,
made in the performance of his duty, by a public oiiicer of this
State, or by another person in the performance of a duty specially enjoined by law, are primary evidence of the facts stated
therein.

§ 1661. A transcript from the _record or docket of a justice of

the peace of a sister State, of a judgment rendered by him, of the
proceedings in the action before the judgment, of the execution

and return, if any, subscribed by the justice and verified in the
manner prescribed in the next section, is admissible evidence of
the facts stated therein.

§ 1662. There must be attached to the transcript a certificate
of the justice, that such transcript is in all respects correct, and
that he had jurisdiction of the action, and also a further certificate of the clerk or prothonotary of the county in whichthe justice resided at the time of rendering the judgment, under the seal
of the county or the sealof the court of common pleas, or county

court thereof, certifying that the person subscribing the transcript
was, at the date of the judgment, a justice of the peace in the
county,.and that the signature is genuine. Such judgment, pro.
ceedings and jurisdiction may also be proved by the justice himself, on the production of his docket, or by a copy of the judgment and his oral examination as a witness.

§ 1663. Wehener a copy of the writing of this State is certitied for the purpose of evidence, the certificate must state that

the copy has been compared, by the certifying officer, with the
original, and is a correct transcript therefrom, and of the whole

of such original, or of a specified part thereof. The official seal,
if there be any, of the certifying oiiicer, must also be aifixed to

the certilicate, except when the certiticate of a clerk of a court 15
used in the same court or before an oiiicer thereof.

§ 1664. The provisions of the preceding sections of this article,
applicable to the public writings of a sister State, are equally applicable to the public writings of a territory of the United States.

ARTICLE III.

PRIVATE WRITINGS.

§ 1665. Private writings are either, - ,

1. Sealed; or,

2. Unsealed.

§ 1666. A public seal in this State is a stamp or impression,
made upon wax, wafer, paper, or any other substance upon which
a visible and permanent impression can be made. A private seal
may be made in the same manner, or it may be made, without an
impression, by.a wafer or wax attached to the instrument, or by

a paper attached to it by an adhesive substance. A scroll or
other sign, made in asister State or foreign country, and there
recognised as a seal, must be so regarded in this State, except for

a transfer of real property in this State. _
§ 1667. Every private writing,except last wills and testaments,

_ may be acxpowledged or proved, and certified, in the manner

provided for the acknowledgment or proof of _conveyances of real
property, and the certificate of such acknowledgment or proof, is
primary evidence, of the execution of the writing, in the same
manner as if it were a conveyance of real property.

§ 1668. Every surrogate must receive,and deposit in his oiiice,
any. last will and testament, delivered to him for that purpose,

and give a written receipt therefore. Such will must be enclosed
in a sealed wrapper, so that its contents cannot be read, and be

endorsed with the name of the testator, his place of residence, and
the precise time of the deposit, and must not be read or opened,
until delivered to a person entitled to it, as provided in the next section. '

§ 1669. It can be delivered only,

1. To the testator in person: _

- 2. Upon his written order, proved by a subscribing witness:
61':

‘ 3. After his death, to the person named in the endorsement, if
any, or if he be dead, insane, or absent, to the person entitled to

the papers of the testator: or, _
4. If not so delivered, the surrogate must publicly open and

examine it, make known its contents, and file it! n his oiiice, to

remain there until proved, it’ capable of proof, and then to be delivered to the person entitled to its custody, or until required by
the authority of a competent court to be produced therein.

§ 1670. The record of a conveyance of real property, or other

record, a transcript of which is admissible in evidence, must not

be removed from the office where it is kept, except upon the
order of a court, or when temporarily removed by the clerk, having it in custody, to the court of. which he is clerk, or to courts
held in the city or village, where his oilice is situated.

TITLE III.

OF THE PRODUC'I‘IV®NE88 OF EVIDENCE.

CHAPTER I.
means or rnonvcrrorv.

§ 1671. The process by which the attendance of a witness is
required is a subpoena. It is a. writ of order in the name of the
people directed to a person, and requiring his attendance, at a

particular time and place, to testify as a witness. It may also
require him to bring with him any books, documents, or" other
things under his control, which he is bound by law to produce in
evidence. , I ‘
§ 1672. The subpuana is issued as followsr .
1. To require attendance before a court, or at the trial of an

issue therein, it is issued by or on behalf ‘of the court, before
which the attendance is required,or in which the issue is pending :

2. To require attendance out of court, in an action or special
proceeding pending in court, it is issued by or on behalf of the

court, in which the action or proceeding is pending:
3. To require attendance out of court before a judge, justice,

or other officer, authorized to administer oaths in a special proceeding, under the authority of this state, and pending in court,

it is issued by the judge, justice, or other oilicer, before whom the

attendance is required :

4. To require attendance, before a commissioner, appointed to
take testimony, by a court of any other state or country, or before a judge, justice or other person, in any other case allowed by
law, it may be issued by a judge of the supreme court, or by a
‘county judge or justice of the peace, in places within their re.
spective jurisdictions. ‘ ‘
§ 1673. Any party or attorney of a party, in an action or special proceedingpending in court, may at any time, issueon behalf
of the court, as many subpoenas for witnesses within the state,
pursuant to subdivisions 1' and 2 of the last section, as may be
required by such party. Every judge, justice, or other officer,
authorized by subdivisions 3 and 4 of the last: section to issue
subpoenas, may on the application 'of any party,o.nd such proof,

as this code requires in the particular case, issue subpoenas signed ‘

by such judge, justice, or other officer, with his name of oilice
for such witnesses, as the party reasonably requires.

§ 1674. The service of -a subpoena is made, by showing the
original, and delivering a copy or a ticket, containing its sub-‘
stance, to the witness personally, giving or offering to him at the
same time, the fees to which he is entitled,for travel to and from
the place designated, and one day’s attendance there. Sue): service must be made, so as to allow the ‘witness a reasonable time,
for preparation and travel to the place of attendance.

§ 1675. If a witness be concealed in a building or vessel, so as
to prevent the service of a subpoena upon him, the court or oiliéer issuing the subpoena, may, upon proof by affidavit, of the
concealment, and of the materiality of the witness, make an
order, that the sheriff of the county serve the subpoena, and the
sheriff must serve it accordingly, and for that purpose may break
into the building or vessel, Where the Witness is concealed.

§ 1676. A witzressis not ol‘»li;:<‘d to attend ibr examination upon
:a deposition, in any other county than that of his residence, or
‘ivhere he is served with the subpoena ; nor is a witness obliged
‘to"attend for oral examination, before a court or judge outof ‘the
county Where the witness resides, or is served with the subpoena:
iinless the place of attendance be ‘within twenty miles of ' his
residence, except that in case of an action or special proceeding
pending in court, a ' judge thereof‘, or a judge of the supreme
court, or a county judge, upon an affidavitof a party, or his attorney, showing that the testimony of the witness is material and

' his attendance necessary, may endorse on the subpoena an order

for the attendance of the Witness; in which case, the service of
such subpoena and order,‘an'd the payment of double fees to the
witness, are's1if‘ricien trio require his attendance, in the same man-.
her as if he resided in the county.

§ 1677. A..pe1-son present in court, or before ajudicial otiioer,
may be required to testify, in the same manner, as if he were in
attendance upon a subpoena, issued by such court or officer. " '

§ 1678. Disobedience to a subpoena, or a refusal to be sworn or
to answer as-a witness, or to subscribe an affidavit or deposition
when required, may be punished as a contempt, by the court or

officer issuing the subpoena, or requiring the witness to be sworn;
and if the witness be a party, his complaint, answer or reply may

be stricken out.

§ 1679. A witness disobeying a subpozna shall also forfeit to
the party aggrieved, the sum of fifty dollars, and all-damages
which he may sustain, by the failure of the witness to attend;

which forfeiture and damages may be recovered ina civil action.
§ 1680. In case of the failure of a witness to attend, the court,

or oiiicer issuing the subpoena, upon proof of the service thereof,
and of the failure of the witness, may issue a warrant to the
sheriff of the county, to arrest the witness, and bring him before
the court or ohicer where his attendance was required.

§ 1681. Every warrant, of commitment, issued by a court or,
oiiicer, pursuant to this chapter, must specify therein particularly.

the cause of the commitment, and if it be for refusing to answer
a question, such question must be stated in the warrant. And
every warrant to arrest, or commit a witness, pursuant to this chapter, must be directed to the sheriff of the county, where the

witnessmay be, and must be executed by him in the same manner as process issued by_the supreme court. '

§ 1682. If the witness be prisoner, confined in a prison within
this state, an order for his examination in the’ prison upon deposition, or for his temporary removal and production, before a
court or officer, for the purpose of being orally examined, may be
made, as follows: .

1. By the court itself, in which the action or special proceeding is pending, unless it be a justice’s court:

2. By a judge of the supreme court or county judge of the coun-,'
ty where the action. or proceeding is pending, if pending in a‘
justice’s court, or before a judge, or other person out of court.

§ 1683. Such order can only be made on the motion of a party,
upon affidavits, showing the nature of the action or proceeding,
the testimony expected from the witness,-and its materiality.

§ 1684. If the witness be imprisoned in the county where the

action or proceeding is pending, and for a cause other than a sentence forfelony, his production may be required. In all other
cases his examination must be taken upon deposition.

CHAPTER II .

MANN ER OF PRODUCTION.

ARTICLE 1. ,

«MODE 01'-‘ TAKING THE TESTIMONY OF WITNESSES.

§ 1685. The testimony of witnesses is taken in three modes:
1. By affidavit: I

2. By deposition:

3. By oral examination: . A

§ 1686. An affidavit is a written declaration under oath, made
without notice to the adverse party.‘

§ 1687. A deposition is a written declaration under oath, made
upon notice to the adverse party for the purpose of enabling him
to attend and cross examine. , ‘

§ 1688. An oral examination is an examination in presence of
the jury or tribunal which is to decide ' the fact, or act upon it,
the testimony being heard by the jury or tribunal from the lips of
the witness. ’

§ 1689. In depositions, the witness must be made to speak in
the first person. Depositions must be taken in the form of question and answer, and the words of the witness must be written
down, unless the parties agree to a ditferent mode.

§ 1690. An affidavit or deposition taken in another state of the
United States, or in a foreign country, otherwise‘ than upon commission, must be authenticated as follows before it can be used in
this state:

1 . It must be certified by a commissioner appointed by the
governor of this state to take affidavits and deposition in such
other state: or ’ ‘

2. It must be certified, by a judge of a court having a seal, to
have been taken and subscribed before him, at a time and place
specified, and the genuinenss of the signature of the‘ judge, the

existence of the court, and the fact that such ‘judge is a member '

thereof, must be certilied by the clerk of the court, or the keeper
of its seal, under the seal thereof.

ARTICLE II.

AFFIDAV ITS .

§ 1691. An affidavit may be usedto verify a pleading or a paper in an action or a special proceeding, to prove the service of
a. summons, notice or other paper in an action or special proceeding, to obtain a provisional remedy,the examination of a witness,
or a stay of proceedings, or upon a motion and in any other case,
expressly permitted by some other provision of this code.

§ 1692. Evidence of the publication of a document or notice
required by law, or by an order of a court or judge, to be published in a newspaper, may be given by the affidavit of the printer
of the newspaper, or his foreman or principal clerk, annexed to

a copy of the document or notice, specifying: the times when, and
the paper in which the publication was made. But such aiiidavit must be made within six months after the last day of publication. ‘ '

§ 1693. If such aiiidavit be made in an action or special proceeding pending in a court, it may be filed with the court, or a
clerk thereof, if not so made it may be filed with the clerk of the
county where the newspaper is printed. In either case the original affidavit or a copy thereof, certified by the court or clerk
having it in custody, is primary evidence of the facts stated

therein.
ARTICLE III.

DEPOSITIONS .

§ 1694. In all cases, other than those mentioned in section I691,
where a written declaration under oath is used, it mustbe a deposition as prescribed by this code. - '
§ 1695. The testimony of a witness out of the state, may be

taken by deposition in an action, at any time after the service of

the summons or the appearance of the defendant, and in a special

proceeding, at any time after a question of fact has arisen therein.

§ 1696. The testimony of a witness in this state may be taken
by deposition, in an action at any time after the service of ‘the
summons or the appearance of the defendant, and in a special
proceeding, after the same has been "commenced by the service
of process or other paper therein, in the following cases:

1. When the witness is a party to the action or special proceeding:

2. When the witness resides more than one hundred miles from
the place where his testimony is to be used:

3. When the witness is about to leave the state and will pro-,
bably continue absent when the testimony is required :

4. When the witness, otherwise liable to attend the trial, is,
nevertheless, too infirm to attend : ,

5. When the testimony is required upon a motion, or in any
other case where the oral examination of the witness is not re-'
quired.


ARTICLE IV.

Manama or 'raxmo‘nr.1>os1'r1oNs op'r.»or rnrr. swarm.

§ 1697. The deposition of a witness out of the state, may be
taken upon commission issued from the court, or, without commission, before a commissioner appointed by the governor of this
state to take depositions in other states.

§ 1698. The commission must be issued by the clerk, under
the seal of the court, ora surrogate, or by ajustice in their courts,
on the application of either party, upon five days’ previous notice to the other, served with a copy of the interrogations pro' posed. ‘ It must be issued to a person agreed upon by the parties,

or if they do not agree, to a judge or justice of the peace, selected
by the officer issuing it. . .

Such proper interrogatories, direct and cross, ‘as the respective
parties may prepare, to be settled by the clerk, surrogate, or justice, in a summary manner at the time of issuing the commission if

the parties disagree, may be annexed to the commission, or when
the parties agree to that mode, the examination may be without
written interrogatories. From the settlement of interrogatories
by the clerk, either party may appeal to a judge of the court or

county judge, upon two days notice to the other, and the judge

shall resettie the interrogatories.
§ 1699. The commission must authorize the commissioner, to

administer an oath to the witness, and to take his deposition in

answer to the interrogatories, or when the examination is to be
without interrogatories, in respect to the question in dispute, and

to certify the deposition to the court, -in a sealed envelope directed to the clerk, or other person designated or agreed upon, and
forwarded to him by mail, or other usual channel of conveyance.

§ 1700. A trial or other proceeding must not be postponed by
reason of a commission not returned, except upon evidence satis-L
‘history to the court, that the testimony of the witness is necessary, and that proper diligence has been used to obtain it. '
§ 1701. The deposition of a witness out of this state and in any

other of the United States, may also ‘be taken before a commissioner, appointed by the governor of this state to take depositions in

other states, upon eight days previous notice of the time and '

place of examination, given to the adverse party, if the distance
of the place of examination from the place where -the -testimony

is to be used, do not exceed one hundred miles, and three days
in addition for every additional_hundred miles.
§ 1702. Either party may attend on such examination, and put’
‘ such questions, direct and cross, as may be proper. The deposition must be taken, certified to the court, and filed with the
clerk in the same manner, as a deposition upon commission.
§ 1703. The deposition mentioned in this article, may be used
by either party on the trial or other proceeding, against any
other -party, giving or receiving the notice, subject to all just excaptions.
ARTICLE V.

i

MARKER OI-' TAKING DEPOSITION! IN THE STATE.

§ 1704. Either party may have the deposition taken of a  .

ness in this state, in either of .-the cases mentioned in section 1696,
before a judge of the court, or any other person authorized to ad,
minister oaths, on serving upon the adverse «party, preview notice of the time and place .of.examination, together with a copy of
an aiiidavit, showing that the case is within that section. Such

notice must be at least We days, adding also one day forevery

fifty miles of the distance of the place of examination from the
residence of the person, to whom the notice is given, unless for
cause shown, a judge prescribe a shorter time.

§ 1705. Either party may attend such examination, and put
such questions, direct and cross, as may be proper, and the deposition must be certified by the oiiicer, and filedwith the clerk,
or if the parties so agree, deposited with some other person, and
may thereupon be used by either party upon the trial, motion, or
other proceeding, against any party giving or receiving the notice,

subject to all legal exceptions. But no objection to the relevancy
of testimony can be made at the trial unless the same were stated

at the time of the examination. If the deposition be taken under subdivisions 2, 3, and 4, of section 1696, proof must also be
made that the witness continues absent or infirm.

§ 1706. Notwithstanding the taking of a deposition mentioned in sections 1701 and 1704, it may be excluded from the case:

» upon proof that sufficient notice was not given to the party:

against whom it is offered, to enable him to attend the taking
thereof or that the taking was not in all respects fair.

§ 1707. When a deposition has been once taken, it may be
read in any stage of the same action or proceeding, or in any
other action between the same parties, upon the same subject, and
is then to be deemed the evidence of the party reading it.

§ 1708. Any party to an action or special proceeding, in a
court, or before a judge of a sister state, may obtain the testimony of a witness residing in this state, to he used in such action
or proceeding, in the cases mentioned in the next two sections.

§ 1709. If a commission to take such testimony have been issued from the court or judge, before whom such action or proceeding is pending, on producing the commission, to a judge of
the supreme court, or a county judge, -with an aiiidavit, satisfactory to him, of the materiality of the testimony, he may issue a
subpoena to the witness, requiring him to appear and testify, be-_
fore the commissioner named -in the commission, at a specified.
time and place. 3

§ 1710. If a commission have not been issued, and it appear to
ajudge of the supreme court, county judge, or justice, by affidavit satisfactory to him: ‘

1 . That the testimony of the witness is material to either party :

2. That a commission to take the testimony of such witness
has not been issued: '

3. That according to the law of the state where the action or
special proceeding is pending, the deposition of a witness taken
under such circumstances, and before such judge or justice, will
be received in the action or proceeding, he must issue his subp<ena, requiring the witness to appear and testify before him at a
speeilled time and place. 

§ 1711. Upon the appearance of the witness, the judge or 'jus
tice must cause his testimony to be taken in writing, and must
certify and transmit the same to the court or judge before whom
the action or proceeding is pending, in such manner as the law
of that state requires.

TITLE V.

0.!‘ THE RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF WITNESSES.

§ 1712. it is the duty of a witness, duly served with a subpoena, to attend at the time appointed, with any papers under his
control required by the subpoena, to answer all pertinent and legal questions, and, unless sooner discharged, to remain till the
testimony is closed. S ~

§ 1713. A witness must answer questions legal and pertinent
to the matter in issue, though his answer may establish a claim
against himself. But he need not give an answer, which will
have a tendency to subject him to punishment for a felony. Nor
need he give an answer, which will have a direct tendency to degrade his character, unless it be to the very fact in issue, or to a
fact from which the fact in issue would be presumed. But a witness must answer as to the fact of his previous conviction for

felony. ‘ _
§ 1714. A witness is entitled to nfty cents for every day’; at.
tendance before a court or‘ officer if he reside more than three

miles from the place of attendance, and travel fees at the rate of
four cents a mile going and returning. ' .

§ 1715. It is. the right of a witness to be protected from irrelevant, insulting or improper questions, and from harsh or in.
°sulting demeanor; to be detained only so long as .the interests of
justice require it; to be examined only as to matters legal and
pertinent to the issue.

§ 1716. Every person who has been in good faith, served with
a subpoena, to attend as a witness before a court, judge, commisv
sioner, referee, or other person, in a case where the disobedience
of the witness may be punished as a contempt, is exonerated

from arrest in a civil action, while going to the place of attendance,

necessarily remaining there, and returning therefrom.
The arrest of a witness contrary to thig section is void, and

when willfully made, is a contempt of the court; and the person
making it, ‘B responsible to the witness arrested, for double the
amount of the damages which may be assessed against him, and
‘ is also liable toan action at the suit of the ‘party serving the
witness with the subpeena, for the damages sustained by ‘him in

consequence of the arrest.
§ 1717. But an officer is not so liable, unless the person claim‘ ing exemption make, if required, an affidavit,stating:

1. That he has been served with a subpcnna, to attend as a witness before a court, officer, or other person, specifying the same,
the place of attendance, and the actionior proceeding in which
the subptena was issued, and:

2. That he has not been thus served by his own procurement,
with the intention of avoiding an arrest. a

The aiiidavit may be taken by the oilicer, and exonerates him
from liability for not making the arrest or for discharging the
witness when arrested.

§ 1718. The court or oilieer issuing the subpoena, and the
court or officer before whom the attendance is required, may
discharge the witness from an arrest made in_ violation of section
1716. If the court have adjourned before the arrest, or before

application for the discharge, a judge of the court, or a county

judge, may grant the discharge.
TITLE VI.

OF‘ EVIDENCE IN PARTICULAR CASE! AIVD MIGCEDLAIEU8 AND GEERLB
PIIOVIBIDIVB.

CHAPTER I.

EVIDENCE IN PARTICULAR CASEI.

§ 1719. An offer in writing, to pay a particular sum of money,‘

or to deliver a written instrument or specific personal property,

is, if not accepted, equivalent to the actual production, and tender of the money, instrument or property. . _

§ 1720. Whoever pays money, or delivers an instrument or
property, is entitled to a receipt therefore, from the person to
whom the payment or delivery is made, and may demand a proper signature to such receipt as a condition of ‘the payment or
delivery. ’

§ 1721. The person to whom a tender is made, must at the time
specify any objection he may have to the money, instrument or
property, or he must be deemed to have waived it, and if the objection be to the amount of money, the terms of the instrument,
or the amountor kind of property, he must specify the amount,
terms or kind which he requires, or be precluded from objecting
aherwards. '

CHAPTER II.
raocssnmza ro pears-run: rnsnmosv. ,

§ 1722. The testimony of a witness may be taken conditionally
and perpetuated, as provided in this chapter.

§ 1723. The applicant must produce to a judge of the supreme
court, or to a county judge, ari affidavit, stating,

I. That the applicant is a party, or expects to be a party, to,an
action in a court of this state: '

2. That the testimony of a witness, residing in this state, whose
place of residence is stated, is necessary to the prosecution or defense of such action: and generally the facts expected to be
proved: ' ‘

3. If the action be not actually commenced, that the party
named who is expected to be adverse to the applicant, resides in
this state, and is of full age. ' _

The judge may thereupon, in his discretion, make an order, allowing the examination, and prescribing how long before the examination, the order and notice of the time and place therefore
must he served. ‘ '

§ 1724. Upon proof of personal service upon the person, who
is, or is expected to be, the adverse party, of the order, copy of
the affidavit, and of a notice that the examination will be taken

before a judge at the supreme court, or county judge of the county wherein the witness resides or may be at a speciiied time and

place, such judge may take the deposition of the witness conditionally, and the examination may, if necessary, be adjourned
from time to time. 

§ 1725. Every answer or declaration'of the witness must be
taken down, unless the parties otherwise agree. The deposition

when completed, must be carefully read to, and subscribed by,
the witness, then certihed by the judge, and immediately thereafter filed in the office of the clerk of the county where it was

taken, together with the order for the examination of the witness, '

the affidavit on which the same was granted, and the affidavit,
of service of the aihdavit, order and notice.

§ 1726. The aiiidavits filed with the deposition, or a certihed
copy thereof, are primary evidence of the facts stated therein, to
show compliance with the provisions of this chapter.

§ 1727. If a trial be had, between the persons named in the
affidavit as parties actual or expectant, or their successors'in interest, upon proof of the death or insanity of the witness, or of
his inability to attend the trial by reason of age, sickness, or set-3
tied iniirmity, the deposition, or a certified copy thereof, may be
given in evidence by either party. . ‘

§ 1728. The deposition so taken and read in evidence has the
same etfect as the oral testimony of the witness, and no other, and
every objection to the witness, or to the relevancy of any question put to him, or of any answer given by him, may be made in
the same manner, as if he were examined orally at the trial.

CHAPTER III.

ADMINISTRATION OF OATH! AND AFFIBJIATXONB.

x

§ 1729. Every court, judge, justice or other officer, or person,
authorized to take testimony, in any action or proceeding, or to
decide upon evidence, has power to administer oaths or atiir-.
mations to witnesses.

§ 1720. An oath is usually administered as follows: the pe1~_
son, who swears, layshis hand upon the gospels, while the person
administering the oath, thus addresses him: “You do swear that
the evidence you shall give in  issue (or matter) pending between——and-—, shall be the truth, the whole truth, and no-_
thing but the truth, so help you God,” and thereupon the person
who swears, assenta by kissing the book,

§ 1731. Any person who desires it may swear by expressing
his Kssent, when addressed, in the following form : You do swear,
in the presence of the everliving God, that the evidence you shall
give, &c.,” as in the last section, holding up his hand or not, at
his option. ‘ _

§ 1732. Whenever the court, before which a person is offered
as a witness, is satisfied that he has a peculiar mode of swearing,
connected with, or in addition to, the usual form of administration, which, in his opinion, is more solemn or obligatory, the
court may in its discretion adopt that mode.

§ 1733. When a person is sworn, who believes in any other
than the Christian religion, he may be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of his religion, it there be any such.

§ 1734. Any person who desires it, may, at his option, instead
of taking an oath, make his solemn affirmation or declaration, by

assenting, when addressed, in the following form : “You do solemnly affirm (or declare) that, &c., as in section 1730.

§ 1735. Whenever, by any provision of this code, an oath is required, an affirmation or declaration, as prescribed in the last section, is to be deemed equivalent thereto, and a false afhrmation or declaration is to be deemed perjury, equally with a false
oath.
§ 1736. The provisions contained in this part of the code, respecting the evidence on a trial before a jury, are equally appli.
cable on the trial of a question of fact before a court, referees or
other officer. _

§ 1737. Whenever, by special statute, a certificate is expressly
made evidence of a fact, or particular evidence is required, such
statute remains unaifected by this code.

§ 1738. Words used in this code, in the past or present tense,

include the future as well as the past and present; words used
in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter; the
singular number includes the p1ural,and the plural the singular;
the word person includes a corporation as well as a natural person; writing includes printing or printed paper; oath includes
amrmation or declaration; signature or subscription includes

mark, when the person cannot write, his name being written
near it, and witnessed by a person who’ writes his own.name‘as a
witness. The following terms also have in this code the signification attached to them in this section, unless otherwise apparent
from the context: ,
'1. The word “ property,” includes property, real and personal;
2. The Words “ real property,” are co-extensive with lands,

tenements, and hereditaments; ~ 3. The words “ personal property,” include money, goods,

chattels, things in action, and evidences of debt; L

4. The word “ district,” signifies judicial district;

5. The word “clerk,” signitles the clerk of the court where
the action is pending, and in the supreme court the clerk in the
county mentioned in the title of the complaint, or in another
county, to which the court may have changed the place of trial ,5

6. The word “ writ,” signifies an order or precept in writing,
issued in the name of the people, or of a court or judicial oiiicer;
“ process” is a writ or summons issued in the course of judicial
proceedings; _

7. The word ‘1‘ corporation” includes every association having‘

any corporate rights, whether created by special acts of legislation
or under general laws; a “ foreign corporation,” is a corporation
created by, or under the laws of some other state, government or

country.
§ 1739. All statutes, laws and rules, heretofore in force in this

state, in any case provided for by this code, or inconsistent with.

its provisions, are hereby repealed and abrogated, nor is any such
statute, law, or rule, to be deemed retained, because it is consistent wlth provisions upon the same subject in this code; but‘.

such repeal or abrogation does not revive any former law heretofore repealed, nor does it affect any right already existing or
accrued, or any proceeding already taken, except as in this code
provided. 

§  1740, This code shall take eifect on the first day of October

1853.


