shall be called upon to furnish temporary relief to any person,
under the provisions of the eighth section of the act for the re
lief of the poor, passed March fourteen, eighteen hundred and
thirty one, the said overseers shall be and are hereby authorized
and required to remove such person to the county poor house,
provided such person is in a situation to be removed, upon the
order of the trustees of the proper township, directed to the
board of directors of the poor house; and it shall be the duty of
said directors to receive and take charge of said person, in the
same manner as if said person had obtained a legal settlement in
said township, so long as, in their opinion, such relief may be
necessary and proper.
Sandals
1. Means and ﬁnal process for the body, 13. When ofﬁcer to return all process;—
for a debt, &,c., not to issue, except as
failing, to be amerced.
herein after provided.
14. Process returned “served,” defendant
2. In what cases process for the body
in court.
may issue, without showing cause 15. Capias, how executed and returned.—
therefore.
Copy of bail bond to be returned with
3, 9. For what causes, and upon what

aﬂidavit, a capias ad respondendum
may be issued.
4, 9. For what causes, and upon what

the writ.

16 When alias, pluries, or testatum capiaa
or summons may be issued.
17. When proclamation may be ordered

afﬁdavit, a ca. sa. may be issued.

5. Process, issued by justices of the
peace, to be governed by the preceding
mgimm
6. Fees, &c., under preceding sections.
7. Jailor‘s fees, under preceding sections,
to be paid in advance, &c.
8. Acts, inconsistent with preceding secre:auses
ealed. upon which mesne and
9. tions
Furtlier
~
ﬁnal process for the body may be issued.
10. Prior section repealed.
11. When two preceding sections took
eﬁpch

against a defendant;—how published.

Judgment thereon as upon default.
18. Process against two or more, how ser
ved and indorsed by the ofﬁcer.
19. When clerks to issue subpmna for wit
nesses;-.-tll the witnesses to be named
in one writ;-'who may serve it;-—the
return.
' to be issued
- med;
'
20. “in:
upon prempe
-—m orsement on mesne process.
2
,— .

Nonresident of county to procure in
dorser for costs upon mesne process;
liability of such indorser.

22. ‘Vhen and how judgment rendered

12. When ﬁrst process a summons;—how
served—When n capias the ﬁrst proagain,“ “eh ‘ndorseri—execmi‘m 0“
“Ch Judgment‘

cess.~—On return of summons, court
may order special bail.

23. When and how mesne process issued
s
served and returned in suit,upon a
Ssc'rios
Ssc'rron
contmct, 61c, against two or more,
bail—What time shall elapse between
who reside in different counties.
service and return of process against
24. Recognizances from justices, &c., to
special bail.
on
be noted on journal.—-—Proceedings
. Minute of the render and commitment
thereon—Such recognimnces to be re
of defendant.
corded.
. On commitment, clerk to enter exone
25. When special bail to be put in;
retur on bail piece;—its effect, if notice
26. —-If not putin, to proceed on bail bond
be given to plaintifff.
or against sheriff.
. Pleadings, when to be ﬁled, &c., ifde
27. If the officer executing a capias fail to
fendant is in prison to answer the ac
take bail, or bail be insufficient, he
tion.
may be ruled to bring in the body;
. Sheriffcannot be ruled to bring in the
and, on failure, may be amerced;—un
body, after second term.
less he puts in special bail during term.
. When plaintifff may proceed against
28. Defendant brought in by sheriﬂ' on
special bail.—Execution on a judgment
rule, to be committed.
or decree may be issued to any county
in the state—To be executed and re
29. Sheriff and his sureties may put in
special bail without consent of defen
turned to the ofﬁce whence issued.—
30. Exceptions to bail, when and how to
be taken—Notice of exceptions, when
and how served—In what time bail
shall justify, dtc.
3 .— . Notice of time of justiﬁcation, &c.,
when and how given.
32. Effect of failing to justify.-—If they
justify, order of allowance to be ser
ved, Sec.

33. Form of recognizance of special bail.
—Form of bail piece.
31. How and before whom special bail may
justify in the supreme court;
35. —In the court of common pleas.
36. If special bail be not put in, plaintifff
may have assignment of bail bond.—
1"orm of the assignment;—und its
effect.
37. Person imprisoned on mesne process,
when discharged.
38. Proceedings on bail bond may be stay
ed or set aside.
39, 40, 41. By whom and on what terms
proceedings on the bail bond may he
stayed.
42. What notice to be given of putting in
special bail, to stay proceedings on for
feited bail bond, dtc.
43. Afﬁdavit to hold to bail to be taken
as true.

44. On return of capias, defendant may
render himself in discharge of his ap
pearance bail; and if special bail be not

put in, shall be committed, &c.
45. Upon what terms defendant may ren
der himself, or be rendered, in discharge

of his special bail, before the appear
ance day, in the action against such

thereon.
. When error taken in original suit, up
on what terms proceedings against
special bail may be stayed—If judg
ment against principal be ﬁnally re
versed, baildischarged.
. How defendants, served with process,
may be proceeded against, though some
are not served.
.Defendsnts not served with original
process, may be made parties to the
judgment by scire facias.—How the
scire facins served—Its effect.
. In like manner, persons liable may be
made defendants to judgments confes
sed by one or more, and to judgments
on appeals from justice.
’. On allowance of habeas corpus cum
cause, bond shall be taken and citation
issued and served, as on writs of error.

—In what cases such writ not allowed.
56. Transcript of record to be returned

with such writ.—Further proceedings.
. In an action upon a bond, &c., for a

penalty, plaintifff may assign as many
breaches as he may see ﬁt.—Dsmages

to be assessed by jury—Judgment.—
Judgment and execution in such action
upon demurrer, default or confession.
FD Plea of payment, in action upon penal
bond, &c., conditioned for payment of
money, a bar, though payment not ac

cording to the condition;
. —Assignment of breaches in such ac
tion, upon default,demurrer or confes
sion—Execution to be stayed after
judgment, upon payment in court of
the damages, 6pc;
SECTlON
60. —Or satisfaction of such damages and 77. In what cases informer ona penal sta
costs to vacate execution—But the
tute shall pay costs.
judgment to remain as security for 78. In certain actions, plaintifff recovering
further breaches-“Scire facias for fur
less than five dollars, shall not recover
ther breaches—Damages for further
costs.
breaches being paid, proceedings again 79. When judges of common pleas inter
ested, they shall enter the fact on the
stayed,&c.
61, 62, In what actions the defendant may
minutes, and certify the cause to su
bring into court the amount due, and
preme court, &c.
costs, and its effect.
80. Certain suits not to abate by the death
of parties;—executor or administrator
6w . The right to plead several matters.—
may prosecute and defend.
Costs 0n demurrer.
64. 'The right to give special matter in 8 s; . Such suits to be determined as justice
evidence, under a notice, with the plea
may require.
of the general issue.
82. Executor or administrator neglecting
to become a party to suit, citation may
65. Plea in abatement not admitted with
out afﬁdavit ofits truth, unless, 6w.—
issue against him.
Costs, if plea insufﬁcient.
83. Executor or administrator of plaintifff
66. Suit not to abate for the nonjoinder of
cited, and neglecting to become party,
partners, as defendants—Process and
shall be nonsuited, with costs.
proceeding after plea in abatement in 84. Executor or administrator of defend
such case.
ant, cited and neglecting to become
67. Costs, on overruling a special de
party, how court shall proceed.
gt
cc
. When one of two or more plaintifffs or
rnurrer.
68. When several are defendants in tres
defendants dies, survivor may prose
pass, ejectment, &.c., and one is acquit
cute or defend—Suggestion of death.
ted, he shall recover costs.—Costs to 86. Executor or administrator of deceased
follow judgment for defendant in all
defendant may be made party to judg
cases—Execution therefore.
ment by scire facias,—-how served.
69. Costs, &,c., in action for trespass to 87. How such judgment against an execu
land, when plea is sustained that it
tor or administrator collected.
was involuntary, tender of amends be
88. Action of ejectment, or waste, not to
fore action, and disclaimer of title.
abate by death of defendant, but heirs
70. What notice to be given to person in
0r devisees may be made parties, and
possession of land before bringing an
how.
action of ejectment.—Who may be 89. If such heirs or devisees cited and neg
made defendant.-—As to joint and sev
lect to become parties, how court shall
eral demises.
proceed.
7l. Judgment against casual ejector, at 90. Right and liability to action for cer—
ﬁrst term,if no one be made defend
tain torts, &c., to survive, dtc.
ant, 81,0.
9 > . \Vhen court or judge may grant a de
dimus potestatum.-What courts to
72. When defendant may demand the place

of residence of the lessor of plaintifff,
and security for costs, dtc.
73. Costs, 61.0., when lessor of plaintifff re
sides out of state. is an infant, or dead;

74. —Or when action for mesne proﬁts is
in name of nominal plaintiﬂ'.
75. How actions prosecuted and defended
by infants—But parol shall not de
mur, &c.

76. When attorney confessing judgment
shall produce warrant therefore.—Copy
of warrant tobe ﬁled—Warrant of at
torney by one in custody not good, un
less, 6w.

order depositions to perpetuate testi

many.
92. Courts may establish rules of practice
not repugnant to law.—Rules of su
preme court to be certiﬁed to common
pleas in each county.—How for rules
of common pleas to conform to rules
of supreme court.
9 OJ . Plaintiff to deliver to defendant bill of
particulars, copy of writing, &c., on
which he sues. 6w ;
94. —Whatcopies of writings, &c., defen
dant shall furnish plaintifff if required.
-Either party refusing, shall not give
the original in evidence.
Section
95. Parties to notice the ﬁling of pleadings
at their peril.
96. Actions consolidated before issue.—
Superﬁuous counts.
97. Issues in law ﬁrst tried.
98. On defaults. the court may assess
damages, unless, &.c.
99. Motion for a new trial to precede a
motion in arrest.
100. Proceedings on special verdict and de
murrer to evidence.
10 > . Judgment standing ﬁve years without
execution, becomes dormant, and its
lien ceases;
102. —But debt may be brought on such
judgment, or it may be revived by scire
facias against defendant, heirs, 6w.
103. How such scire facius served;
104. —1’leading, defense and judgment, &,c.
105. Either or both parties dying afterjudg
ment, and before satisfaction, their

personal representatives may be made
parties, and the judgment revived by
scire fucias;
106. —The like, when original judgment
was against the plaintifff.
107. What causes to be dockcted twelve
days before court, and how.——A certain
number to be set for each day.—-What
day in term subptnnus to require wit
nesses to attend—In what order caus
es to be tried.
108. When copy of docket to be made for
court.
109. Filing. &c., of papers in clerk's ofﬁce.
110. Minutes of proceedings to be read and
signed before adjournment.
ll . . Clerk to keep an execution docket,
and have the same in court While sit
ting.

112. In what cases of nonsuit plaintifff may
appeal —In what cases exceptions to
I the opinion of the court may be taken.
~Exceptions to be signed and sealed,
and made part of record.
113. When courts may require parties to
produce books and writings in evi
dence;——consequcnce of failure to
comply.
114. Courts may grant new trials;—admiu
istcr oaths, and punish contempts.

SECTION
117. Complete records to be made by clerks
in vacation, and signed at next term.
118. Records not brought up, to be made,
examined and signed.
119. Writs of error to reverse the judgment
of the common pleas—How issued;—
rccord and citation to be nnnexed;—its
service.
120. Writ of error not to operate as a su
persedeas till bond given—The bond
and its condition, Ste—Error to be
brought within ﬁve years from rendi
tion of judgment, saving, &c.
12 , . W hen j udgment reversed, the supreme
court may renderjudgment, or remand
cause to common piece—Supreme
court not to issue execution, but shall
issue mandate to common pleas—Ex
ecution upon the mandate.
122. Costs, how taxed on error.
123. Appeals to supreme court, in what
cases allowed.
124. Notice of intention to appeal, to be
entered in term—Bond to be given in
thirty days—Condition of the bond.
—When notice of appeal given, court
may stay execution thirty days—Ex
ecutors and administrators may appeal
without giving bond.
125. Lien on real estate not affected by
appeal.
126. Costs in supreme court on appeals; in
what cases to be paid by plaintiffh—by
defendant.
. Judgment of common pleas suspend
ed by uppeal;—und when transcript of
entries, and the original papers, to be
delivered to Clark of supreme court;—
but record may be made in common
pleas, at costs of party asking it.
128. Clerk of supreme court may issue sub“
pmnas before transcript ﬁled.
129. Appeals to be tried on pleadings made
up in common pleas, unless, 6w;—
costs, 81.0., on amendments, &c.
130. In what cases the supreme court shall
reduce their opinions to writing, and
ﬁle the same, with the papers of the
cause.
131. When some counts in declaration good,
and some bad, effect of verdict.
132. As to omission, &c., in verdicts in

. How to proceed where new trial is
detinue.
applied for in supreme court.
133. A quorum of the judges failing to at
116. When new trial is granted by supreme
tend, judge or sheriff, coroner, 6.20.,
court, its effect, and proceedings
may adjourn court.—Eifect on causes
thereon.
by a continuance in such mse.

PRACTICE—CIVIL—AT LAW .

SECTION
134. When venue may be changed.
135. Acts repealed—Saving, 6:0.
136. Pleadings, evidence, &c., of want, or
failure of consideration ,of written
contract, or specialty given for pay—
ment of money, or delivery of property.
137. When and how administrator dc bonis
mm may be made party plaintifff or de
fendant to a. suit.
13B. Executor or administrator, not ap
pointed in this state, to give appeal
bond upon an appeal.
139. When and how administratordebonia
non may be made party plaintiﬂ' or de
fendant to a judgment.
140. Exceptions, to appeal bond to common
pleas or supreme court, when to be
taken—If bond itselt defective, new
one may be ﬁled.
141. Process, return, pleading, 81.0., not af
fected by want of form, &c.,except on
special demurrer;—when amendments
allowed in common pleas or supreme
court.
142. How judgment rendered, &c.,when a
general verdict upon good and bad
counts.
143. When supreme court may determine
issues at law in an adjoining county,
Sec.
144. Party recoveringjudgment entitled to
costs, unless. doc.
145. \Vhen ﬁve per cent. penalty recovered
upon an appeal to the supreme court.
146. Neglect to make return,.to ﬁrst writ
of mandamus, a contempt.
147.Plendings, 81.0., upon the return of
such writ;
148. -Verdict andjudgment thereon;
149.-Such judgment bar to any other
action.
150. Penalty for disobeying peremptory
mandamus.
151. Repealing clause.
152. The seal, test, signing, date and style
of process.
153. Writ of error, from court in bank to

supreme court;—its allowance;—lim
itation;
Sermon
154. -When clerk to make out transcript
of record;—assignment of error, &c.,
thereon;-to be transmitted to clerk of
court in bank, and docketed.-—When
and how citation issued thereon, and
served.—When notice of allowance of
such writ to be published.
155. When such writ to operate as a super
sedeas.—Bond for that purpose.
156. When, for what, andhow bills of ex
ceptions to be taken to opinion of the
supreme court.

157. When judgment of supreme court re
versed by court in bank, how to pro
ceed—Judgments of court in bank,
how enforced—Costs, on error from
supreme court.
158. \Vhen the court of common pleas
shall try issues of fact without jury.—
In certain actions, if defendant asks a
jury, and has no defense, 640., he shall
pay expenses.
1 . Acts repealed.
. Clerk of the court of Hamilton county,
to make indexes to judgment, 6m,
and when and how;
161. —And to execution docket and ﬁnal
records.
162. Court to procurea suitable person to
make certain indexes to prior records;
—allowsnce therefore.
163. Penalty for neglect ofthe clerk, under
three preceding sections, &,c.
164. Courts of any county may order such
indexes to be kept.
165. When ﬁve preceding sections took
effect.
166. How clerks of supreme court and
courts of common pleas of other coun
ties to make such indexes.
167. \Vhat records the court of common
pleas or supreme court may direct to
be transcribed—The transcript a re
cord.
168. Compensation, of oﬁicers, under two
preceding sections, and how paid, &.c.
169. Court may allow clerks compensation
for making indexes.

An act to abolish imprisonment for debt.
[Posted and look Eﬂ-l‘l‘i, March 19, 1838.

Mesne and ﬁ.
na! process for

1. SECTIONi 1.

Be it 071(16de by the General Assembly qf the
That no person shall be arrested or imprisoned
mesne, or ﬁnal writ or process, issuing out of any court

the body, for a State Qf Ohw,
di‘bt, 81¢“ “0! on any

116 n. Slat., 75.] of law or equity, in any suit, action or proceeding, instituted for to issue, except
as herein after
the recovery of any debt due on any contract, promise or agree proVided.
ment, or for the recovery of damages for the nonperformance of
any contract, promise or agreement, or for the recovery of dam
ages in any action of trespass, or on any judgment or decree
founded upon any such contract, promise or agreement, or dam
ages for the nonperformance thereof, or on any judgment in [an]
action of trespass, or for consequential damages, except in cases
hereinafter specified.
2. Seer. 11. The provisions of the ﬁrst section shall not ex In what cases
for the
tend to proceedings for contempts, actions or judgments for process
ody may issue
ﬁnes or penalties for crimes, misdemeanors or offenses prosecu without show
there
ted in the name of the state of Ohio, or on promises to marry, ingcause
for.
for monies collected by any public ofﬁcer or attorney at law,
or for any misconduct or neglect in office, or professional em
ployment.
3. Sscr. III. If any creditor, his authorized agent or attor For what caus
and upon
ney, shall make oath or afﬁrmation in writing, before any judge es
what afﬁdavits
of the supreme court or court of common pleas, justice of the cupias ad re
peace or clerk of either of said courts, that there is a debt or spondendum
may be issued.
demand justly due to such creditor, of one hundred dollars or
upwards, specifying, as nearly as may be, the nature and amount
thereof, and establishing one or more of the following partic
ulars:
First: That the defendant is about to remove his property out
of the jurisdiction of the court, with intent to defraud his cred
itors: or,

Second: That he is about to convert his property into mo
ney, for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of his cred
itors: or,
Third: That he has property or rights in action, which he
fraudulently conceals: or,
Fourth: That he has assigned, removed or disposed of, or is
about to dispose of his property, with intent to de rand his cred
itors: or,

‘Fifth: That he fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred
the obligation for which suit is about to be brought, and shall
ﬁle such afﬁdavit with the clerk of the court of common pleas
of the proper county, such clerk shall thereupon issue a capias,
which shall be served, and the suit instituted thereby shall be,
in all respects, conducted in the same manner as if this act had
not been passed. (a)
4. SECT. IV. On any judgment or decree, the court, when
in session, or any judge thereof, in vacation, may order a capias
(a) For further causes for issuing process against the bod ,see 9th section of this
chapter. Objections to the form, &c.. of an affidavit to he (1 to bail, are, in general,
waived, if not made at the return term of the process; and then they are to be received
with circumspection. 'l‘he strictness and nicety of the English practice will not be
sanctioned—Smilli v. Mizdismt, ’I O. R., (Part 2,) 236.
Under the repealed statute, (29 v. Stat., 59, sec. 6,) the court would order special bail,

after action brought, upon sufﬁcient cause being shown, without afﬁdavit.—-Headly v.
Roby, 6 O, R.,52l.

For what caus
es and upon
what afﬁdavit a the application of the judgment creditor, or his lawful attorney,
if such court or judge shall be satisﬁed, by the afﬁdavit of such
applicant, and such other testimony as he shall present, of the
existence of either of the following particulars:
First: That the judgment debtor has removed, or is about to
remove, any of his property out of the jurisdiction of the court,
with intent to prevent the collection of the money due on the
judgment or decree: or,
Second: That he has property, rights in action, evidences of
debt, or some interest or stock in some corporation or company,
which he fraudulently conceals, or unjustly refrises to apply to
the payment of the judgment or decree: or,
Third: That he has assigned or disposed of, or is about to as
sign or dispose of his property, or rights in action, with intent
to defraud his creditors, or give an unfair preference to some of
them: or,

Fourth: That he has converted, or is about to convert his
property into money, with intent to prevent its being taken on
execution: or,
Fifth: That he fraudulently contracted the debt, or incurred
the obligation, on which the judgment or decree was rendered. (a)
5. Sscr. V. In all cases enumerated in the ﬁrst section of
Process, issued
by justices of this act, and not excepted in the second section thereof, which
the peace to be
governed by the come within the jurisdiction of justices of the peace, the plain
P.receding 860- tifi' shall not be entitled to a capias ad respondendum, or capias
tions.
ad satisfaciendum, unless he shall comply with the provisions of
the third and fourth sections of this act; and justices of the
peace shall be governed in all cases by the provisions of this act,
so far as the same may be applicable.
SECT. VI. (b)
6. SECT. VII. That for services performed under this act,
Fees, 61.0.. un
der preceding the like fees shall be allowed and charged, that are allowed for
sections.
similar services in other cases.
7. Seer. VIII. Any person against whom any capias shall
have been issued under authority of this act, may institute a suit
on the bond described in the sixth section; and if upon the trial
of the suit so instituted, the jury shall ﬁnd that such capias was
issued without reasonable ground for believing the existence of
some one or more of the particulars specified in this act, as au
thorizin the issuing of such capias, the jury shall proceed to
assess t e damages sustained by the person against whom the
h(a) For additional causes for issuing process against the body, see 9th section of this
c apter.
(6) Re caled by 10th section of this chapter.

It was as follows:

Sac.
No capias, either as mesne or ﬁnal process, shall be issued under the provis
ions of this act, unless the plaintifff or othezxperson a plying for the same, shall ﬁrst
make and deliver to the clerk a bond with go

and en

cient surety or sureties, to the

satisfaction of the clerk, in double the amount claimed. or judgment rendered, as the
case may be, payable to the person against whom such writ is issued, conditioned for
the paymentof alldtimages which he may sustain in consequence of issuing such writ,
in caso it shall appear that the mme was issued without good cause; which bond shall
remain with the clerk for the beneﬁt of the person against whom such writ was issued. same was issued, upon which ﬁnding the court shall render judg
ment as in other cases; and any person causing another to be
committed to jail under the provisions of this act, shall be liable,

in the ﬁrst instance, for the jail fees, and shall, if required by the
jailor, pay such fees weekly in advance; and such fees, so paid,
shall be added to the cost taxed or accruing in the case, and be
collected as other costs.
8. Sscr. IX. That all laws and parts of laws, inconsistent
with the provisions of this act, be and the same are hereby re
pealed.
Juilor's fees un
der preceding
sections to be
paid in ad
vance, 6w.

Acts inconsis

tent with pre
cedin sections
repes ed.

An act smendatory of an not entitled "An act to abolish imprisonment for debt."
passed March 19, 1838.
[Passed DIarch 16, 1839.

9. Seer. I.

Took eject, Mag 1, 1839.

3’] o. Slat., 60.]

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State

qfO/tio, That if the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, shall make

and ﬁle his afﬁdavit that the defendant or debtor is about to re
move his body out of the jurisdiction of the court; or, that he
has converted his property into money for the purpose of

Further causal
upon which
mesnennd ﬁnal
recess for the
ody may be
issued.

placing it beyond the reach of his creditors; or, that he is not a
citizen or resident of this state, it shall be deemed additional

cause to those mentioned in the third and fourth sections of the
act to which this is an amendment, to entitle such plaintifff to a
capias ad respondendum, or capias ad satisfaciendum, as the case
ma be.
Bf). Seer. II. That so much of the sixth section of the act Prior section
to which this is an amendment, as requires of the plaintifff or other repealed:
Ante p. 648,
person to make and deliver a bond, before the issuing of mesne note.
or ﬁnal process, he and the same is hereby repealed.
11. Sac-r. Ill. This act to take effect after the ﬁrst day of when'“ P'°'
cedlng sections
May next.
took effect.
An act concerning mesne process, in civil and criminal cases.
[Passed February 10, 1831.

Took eject, June 1, 1831. 29 12. Stat., 117.]

12. Seer. I. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State
of Ohio, That the ﬁrst process in personal actions, in cases where

When a sum
mons ﬁrst pro—
cess;

the plaintifff is not entitled to special bail, shall be a summons;
and, whether the same be issued in or out of term, a copy there

of shall be personally served on the defendant, or left at his
usual place of residence, at any time before its return. And in
all actions where the plaintifff is entitled to special bail, the ﬁrst
process shall be a capias ‘ad respondendum: provided, that the
plaintifff, in any case where he may be entitled to special bail, as
of course, may sue out a summons instead of a capias; and, on
the return of such summons, the court, on motion, may order

the defendant to give special bail, in the same manner as if a
capias ad respondendum had been the ﬁrst process.
13. Seer. 11. That it shall be the duty of the sheriff, or other
ofﬁcer, to whom any summons, capias ad respondendum, or

other process, is directed, to return the same at the time and
89

-—How served.

When a capias
the ﬁrst process
On return of
summons.
court ms or
der specia bail.

When oﬁicer to
return all pro
can; place therein mentioned, which shall be ﬁled by the clerk of the
—Fniling,t0be court; and if the said sheriff or other officer fail to make such

“mercc‘lreturn, unless he can make it appear to the satisfaction of the
court that he was prevented, by inevitable accident, from so
doing, he shall be amerced by the court in any sum not exceed
ing the plaintifff’s debt or demand, to and for the use of said
plaintifff.
Process remm
14. Seer. III. That when the sheriff or other officer shall

ed“served_."

m

return the summons or other process, “served,” the defendant or

defendants shall be considered as being in court, and may be pro
ceeded against accordingly. (a)

Capiasv how

executed and
mumed'

That the sheriff or other ofﬁcer shall execute

the said writ of capias ad respondendum, by taking the body or
bodies of the defendant or defendants; and, in such case, shall
return thereon, “I have taken the body,” as to the defendant, or
“I have taken the bodies,” as to the defendants, on whom the

same hath been served; and shall indorse on the capias ad re

spondendum the name of the bail by him taken, and shall deliver
Copy of bail a copy of the bail bond to the clerk of the court, at or before
ltlond ‘0 P6 '6' the return day of the same writ, which copy shall be. safely kept
urned Wlth

the writ, by the said clerk, in his office. (b)

When alius‘
16. Seer. V. That when the sheriff shall return any writ of
Plum"5 Orient“ capias ad respondendum, in any civil action, “not found,” as to

the defendant or defendants, who is or are not to be found in
'be'lssuedhis county, or any writ of summons, to answer as aforesaid,
“not served,” or “not summoned,” the plaintifff may sue out an
alias, or pluries capias ad respondendum, or summons, until the
defendant or defendants shall be arrested or summoned; or testa
tum (c) capias or summons, where he or they shall have removed
into another county subsequently to the commencement of the
said suit.

When procla17. SE01". VI.

That if the defendant, at the time of suing

matioré may be out such process, have a resldenee in, or be an inhabitant of the

Z’diljndii’lins‘ county in which such process was sued out, the court may, on
motion of the plaintifff, order a proclamation to issue, warning
the defendant to appear at a certain day therein named, or that
judgment will be rendered against him; which proclamation shall
._How pub.

be published three successive days of the court, (if the court shall

liﬂhedso long remain in session,) at the door of the court house of the
county to which the last process was returned, and also three
times in some newspaper published in the state; and if the dc
(a) It seems the return of an oﬂieer _is_matter of record. It is thereforee conclusive, as
between parties to the action and pr_lr'les.nud the Officer; except whtn lhe latter is
charged upon its falsity—Hill rs. Bltng, 4 O. R., 135.

(b) When there are two or more capisses in fuvor'of the same plaintifff against the
same defendant, the safety and securlty of all the parties, it is said, require, that bail
bonds should be taken, separately, in each case—Lyile‘s adm'r e. Duties, 2 O R., 277
285.

(c) Testatumclause is only re uired when a court issues process to a county in which
it has no general jurisdiction.
herefore no testatum was necessary in process issued
by the general court of the Northwestern Territory; that court having jurisdiction
throughout the Territory—Roads at al. v. Symmes, l O. R., 281. 
defendant shall fail to appear, pursuant to such proclamation, the Judgment
thereonasupon
same proceedings shall be had, and the same judgment given, as default.
in other cases of default.
18. Sam. VII. That when any writ of capias, summons, or Process against
or more.
other mesne process, against two or more defendants, shall be two
how served and
directed to the sheriff or other ofﬁcer, it shall be the duty of such indorsed by the
officer to serve the same on so many of the defendants as shall ofﬁcer.
be found in his county, and to indorse on said writ the name or
names of such defendants as have been served with the same;

and it shall also be the duty of such ofﬁcer to return on said
writ the name or names of such defendants as have not been
served with the same, specifying that they are not found in his
county. (a)
An act to regulate the practice of the judicial courts.
[Passed DIarcli 8, 1831.

Too): elecl, JIHIB l, 1831.

29 1;. $101., 58-]

Sam. I. (b)
19. SECT. ll. That the clerks of the several courts shall, on
application of any person having a cause, or any matter ending in court, issue subptcnas for witnesses, inserting al the
names required by the applicant in one subprena; which sub
ptnna, any disinterested person may serve and return: provided,
that the truth of such service and return shall be veriﬁed by

the oath of the person making the same.

'

When clerks to
issue subprsna
{0 r witnesses;
—All the wit
nesses to be
named in one
writ;

—Who may
serve it;——the
return.

20. SECT. III. That any person demanding a writ, shall ﬁle \Nrits to be is
u on pne
a prascipe with the clerk of the court, who shall, thereupon, make sued
cipe ﬁ rd;—ln
out and deliver such writ as may be required; (0) and in all dorsement on
cases of mesne process, he shall indorse thereon the cause of mesne process.
action, and the amount appearing to be due or sworn to, as the
same may be stated in the praecipe, or afﬁdavit to hold the defend
ant to bail.
21. SECT. IV. That in all cases where the plaintifff is a non Nonresident of
to pro
resident of the county in which the action may be brought, the county
cure indorser
writ of summons, capias ad respondendum, or other mesne pro for costs upon
cess, shall be indorsed, prior to the delivery of the same to the mesne process;
proper ofﬁcer, by some responsible freeholder resident in the
county; who, by such indorsement, shall be held and bound for —Liability of
the payment of all the costs that may be adjudged against such indorser.
the plaintifff, both in the court of common pleas and supreme
court. (d)
(a) The residue of this act relates to, and will be found under the head of PRACTICE IN
cmmnu. cssss.
(11) Repealed._ It provided for the test. seal and style of process; for which, see 152d
and 159th sections of this chapter. For the former laws upon this subject, see 29 v.
Stat., 58, sec. 1; 31 v. Stat. 10.
(c) A clerk is not bound, upon verbal request, to issue process.

_A written request or

prtecipe must be presented, to render him liable for an emission to issue process—Wale
0. Cafes, 6 O. R., 150.
(d) The sheriﬂ‘ may serve such writ, although not indorsed for costs; and after the ap
pearance of the defendant, nnd_conllnuance ot the cause for plea, it is, it seems, error to

dismiss it for the want of an indorscr for costs. In such case, a rule for security for
costs should be ﬁrst taken—Me Vwkar v. Ludiow’s heirs, 2 O. R., 259.

22. SECT. V. That it shall be lawful, after ﬁnal judgment
rendered in any such case, for the court, on motion of the
defendant, his executors or administrators, or any other person
having a right to such costs, or any part thereof, (such defendant
or other person having previously given ten days notice of such
motion,) to enter up judgment in the name of such defendant,
his executors or administrators, against such surety, his execu

—Ex_ecution on
such judgment.

Where and
how mesnepro'
cessissued.ser
ved, and retur

ned, in suit up
on a contract,
600., against
two or more,

who reside in
different coun
ties.

tors or administrators, for the amount of costs adjudged against
the plaintifff, or so much thereof as may be due and unpaid; on
which judgment execution may be issued, for the use and bene
ﬁt of the persons entitled to such costs, as in other cases. (a)
Seer. VI. (b)
23. Snc'r. VII. That if two or more persons are bound,
jointly, or jointly and severally, by any bond or writing obliga
tory, bill of exchange, promissory note, or other contract, and
the persons so bound shall reside in different counties, it shall be
lawful for the plaintifff, in any action to be brought on any such
bond, writing obligatory, bill of exchange, promissory note, or
other contract, to ﬁle with the clerk of the court of the county
in which either of the persons so bound shall reside, and against
whom a writ of summons or capias ad respondendum shall have
been directed, a praecipe, directing that a summons or capias ad
respondendum be issued to the sheriff or coroner of the county
or counties in which such other person or persons, so bound as
aforesaid, may reside or may be found, who shall issue the said
writ or writs as by said praecipe shall be directed; and the sheriff
or other ofﬁcer shall execute and return the same, in the same

manner, and under the same penalties as if the capias ad respon
dendum or summons had issued from the clerk of the court of
his county; and the court to whom such writ is returned, shall
proceed in the same manner thereon as if it had been returned
by the sheriff of their own proper county.
Recognizances
from justices,
6m, to be no
ted on 'oumul.
Pro
ings
thereon.

Such recogni
zances to be re
corded.
When special
bail to be put
in;

24.

That whenever any recognizance shall be

returned to any court of common pleas, by a justice of the peace,
or other ofﬁcer authorized to take such recognizance, a memo
randum thereof shall be entered in the minute book of the court;

whereupon the same shall be considered as of record in such
court, and proceeded on, by process issuing out of said court,
in the same manner as if such recognizance had been entered
into before such court: and the same recognizance shall be made
out, and recorded in full, in the book of records of said court, in

the same manner as recognizances taken in such court.
25. SECT- IX. That special bail shall be filed on the return
day of the capias ad respondendum, or on the succeeding day. (0)
(a) See unte p. 406 Indorseinent of security, made upon the writ after suit brought,
and no order qppetiring on the journal of the court, requiring the same, is not a part of
the record, an scire facins under this section is not the remedy of the party, if he have
any, against the surety.—Noble ‘l‘. Shearer et 01., 60. R., 426
(_b) Superseded and repealed. See ante p. 646.
plaintiﬂ'should be entitled to special bail.

It provided for cases in which the

_ (r) Where bail to the sheriff is given, the plaintifff. by accepting a plea and taking
judgment, waives all beneﬁt from the bail bond, and waives special bail.- And, it is
26. Sac-r. X. That if special bail be not put in and perfect
ed in due time, the plaintifff may proceed on the bail bond, or
rule the sheriff to bring in the body of the defendant. (a)
27. Sec-r. XI. That if, upon capias ad respondendum, the
sheriff, or other officer, return, “I have taken the body,” or, “I

have taken the bodies,” (as the case may be,) and shall not re
turn bail, and a copy of the bail bond; or, if the bail taken by
such sheriff or officer, shall, in the opinion of the court, be insuf

ﬁcient; or, the defendant shall fail to appear and give special bail
within the time above speciﬁed, the court, on motion, shall

rule such sheriff or officer to bring in the body of the defendant,

653
—If not put in,
to proceed on
bail bond, or

against sheriff.
Ifthe ofﬁcer ex
ecuting n cnp‘i
as, full to tn a

boil, or bail be
insufﬁcient, or
special bail be
not given, he
may be ruled to
bring in the
body; and on
failure, may be
umerced:

within the term; and if he fail so to do, the sheriff or other officer

shall be amerced by the court, in any sum not exceeding the
plaintifff’s debt or demand, with costs; which amercement shall
ave the same force and effect as a judgment: provided, never

theless, if such sheriff or other officer shall cause special bail to
be put in, and justiﬁed, if justiﬁcation be required, during the
same term, he shall be excused from bringing in the body, and
no amercement shall be entered against him on the said rule.
28. SECT. XII. That if any sheriff, when ruled so to do, shall
bring in the body of the defendant, such defendant shall be com
mitted; and upon entry of such committitur, the plaintifff may
proceed in the action, and declare against the defendant as in
custody.
29. Seer. XIII.

That the sheriff, in order to save himself,

may put in special bail for the defendant, without his consent;
and the bail of such sheriff may do the same for their indemnity.
30. SECT. XIV. That if special bail be entered during the
ﬁrst or second days of the term to which process is returnable,
exception shall be taken and entered thereto, in the clerk’s
docket, during the said term—of which exception, 8. written no
tice shall be served on the defendant or his attorney of record;

—Unless he
puts in special
all during

term.
Defendant
brought in by
sheriff on rule,
to be commit
ted.

Sheriff and his
sureties may
put in special
at] Without
consent of de
fondant.
Exceptions to
bail, when and
how to be tn
ken.

and, in such case, the defendant shall procure his bail to justify,

Notice of ex

in eight days, exclusive, after such exception and notice as afore
said, or add other bail, who shall justify within said eight days;
and when bail is ﬁled on the ﬁrst or second day of the term, an
exception, entered after the expiration of the said term, shall be
of no validity.
31. Ssc'r. XV. That two days notice of the time of justiﬁ
cation of bail, or of putting in new or additional bail, and justiﬁ
cation thereof, shall be given by the defendant or his attorney,
to the plaintifff or his attorney, exclusive of the day it is given;
and, if Sunday intervene, three days notice shall be given.
32. Sscr. XVI. That if the bail do not justify at the time
appointed, they shall be considered out of court; and when

ceptions, when

said, any step by the plaintifff, beyond the mere ﬁling of a declaration de bene case, is a
discharge of the had bond; that_a declaration in chief, or the acceptance of n plea from
the dctundnnt, or the entry of u Judgment against him, is deemed a waiver —Condee et
al. v. Kelsey et al., '7 O. R., (Part 2,) 210.
(a) He may elect. but cannot do both

If, thereforee, he takes a rule on the sheriff to

bring in the ody, he cannot afterwards take an assignment of the bail bond.—~ Valen
line 1:. Smith I! 01., 8 O. R., 96.

nd how served
In what time
bail shall justi
fy, &0.

Notice of time
ofjustiﬁcntion
&c., when an
how given.

Eﬂ'ect of failing
to justify.
If they justify. they do justify, and are allowed, an order of such allowance
order of allow shall be drawn, and a copy thereof served on the plaintifff or his
ance to be ser
attorney.
ved,

33. SECT. XVII. That the recognizance of special bail (a)
shall be to the effect following:
Form of recog
nizance of
special bail.

A. B.
vs. 2 In debt [or case, as the case may be.]
C. D.
The State of Ohio,
county, to wit:
Be it remembered, that on the
day of
in the year of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and
, G. H. and E. F., of the county of
, per
sonally appeared before .1. K., one of the judges of the supreme
court of the state of Ohio, [or one of the judges of the court of com
mon pleas, in and for the county of
, or clerk of the
supreme court of the state of Ohio, or clerk of the court of com
mon pleas, in and for the county of

, as the case may

be,] and severally acknowledge themselves to owe unto A. B.,
the sum of
[double the sum indorsed on the writ,]
to be levied on their several goods and chattels, lands, tenements
and estates; upon condition that if the defendant, 0. D., shall

be condemned in this action, at the suit of A. B., the plaintifff, he
shall pay the costs and condemnation of the court, or be ren
dered, or reader himself, into the custody of the sheriff of said
county, for the same; or, in case of failure, that the said G. H.

and E. F. will pay the costs and condemnation for him.
Taken and acknowledged the day and year above written,
before me, J. K.
And that on acknowledging the aforesaid recognizance, the
bail piece shall be to the effect following, to wit:
\
Form of bail
piece.

State of Ohio: Supreme court [or court of common pleas,]
of the

day of

, in the year of our Lord, one

thousand eight hundred and
. C. D., of the county
of
, is delivered to bail on a cepi corpus, unto G.
H. and E. F., of the said county, at the suit of A. B., in a plea

of debt [or trespass on the case, as the case may be.]
Attest:
How and be
fore whom spe
cial ball may

justify in the
supreme court;

34. Sac-r. XVIII.

S. \V., Clerk.
That in actions which are, or shall be in

stituted in the supreme court of this state, special bail may jus
tify by afﬁdavit in said court, or before one of the judges or
clerks thereof, either in term time or in vacation; and such afﬁ

davit shall set forth, that the bail is a resident of the county, and
that he is worth so much, (mentioning the sum he is bail for,)

after all his debts are paid.
(a) This recognizance of special bail is not a lien on lands before judgment upon it.—
Leuee quewil v. Osborn, 5 O. R., 480.

35. Seer. XIX. That in actions which are, or shall be insti- —[n the court
tuted in any of the courts of common pleas in this state, special °lfeggmm°n
bail may justify by afﬁdavit in the said court, or before one of
'
the judges or clerks thereof, in term time or in vacation; which
affidavit shall set forth that the bail is resident of the county,
and that he is worth so much, (mentioning the sum he is bail for,)
after all his debts are paid.
.
36. Seer. XX. That if special bail be not put in and per- If special bail
fected, in due time, the plaintifff, if he be satisﬁed with the bail bfaﬁq‘ P‘" "1

intiﬁ' may

taken by the sheriff, or other ofﬁcer, may take an asSIgnment of live assi n-_
the bail bond, in the words, or to the effect following:

I, the :19an

ll

nd.

Within named, O. P., do hereby assign and set over the Within Form “thew
bond, to the within named A. B., plaintifff. Witness my hand Bignment;
and seal, the
day of
, in the year of our Lord,
one thousand eight hundred and
Signed, sealed and delivered, in the presence of E. F. and
G. H.

O. P., [SEAL.]
—-'And its effect

And this shall be deemed a sufficient assignment in law, to sus
tain an action on such bail bond, in the name of the assignee._
37. SECT. XXI. That whenever any person shall be imprisoned on mesne process, and remain in prison, and shall not be
charged in execution, within ten days after judgment rendered
against him, he shall be discharged.
38. Sacr. XXII. That the proceedings on the bail bond may

Person impril
oned on mesne
Hirggﬁji'ggihe“
'
proceedings on
bail bond my

be set aside, if irregular; or stayed, if regular, upon terms, in 80,225? or
order that a trial may be had in the original action.
_ |
By whom and
39. Seer. XXIII. That when the plaintifff, in the original on what terms
action, has not lost a trial, for want of special bail being filed in
due time, the court or judge may stay the proceedings on the maybe stayed,
bail bond, upon putting in and perfecting special bail, paying the
costs incurred by the assignment and prosecution of the bail
bond, receiving a declaration in the original action, pleading
issuably, and taking short notice of trial.
Same “bl-w.
40. Seer. XXIV. That when the plaintifff has lost a trial in
the original action, for want of special bail being ﬁled in due
time,(a) it shall be the duly of the court, before the proceedings
be stayed on the bail bond, further to require that the bail con
sent that judgment be entered against them, on the bail bond, for
the plaintifff’s security; and in such case, if the defendant fail in
the original action, the bail shall be liable to immediate execu
tion, and slile not discharge him or themselves by a render of
the4Rrinci
Sad-i.a.XXV. That after the expiration of the term in same'ub'lec"
which the laintiff might have had judgment, in the original ac
tion, if bai had been ﬁled in due time, the proceedings shall not
he stayed on the bail bond, without consent of the plaintifff.
(n) The loss ofa trial must be ascertained by the court.

It is not, it is said, to be in

ferred from the lapse ofa term, or several terms. The plaintiffl'musi show, by afﬁdavit,
all the facts and circumstances necessary to prove a loss of a “ML—Valentine u. Smilh
at al., 8 O. R., 26.
‘42. SECT. XXVI.

[cmun

That whenever the defendant neglects

1‘96???" 01W!" puttinrv6 in special
bail in. due
time, by which the bail bond be.
ting in special
.
.
ballIOSllly pro- comes forfeited, the notice, in case the party means to put in
cesd'mgs‘mm' special bail, in order to stay proceedings on the bail bond, shall
feiied bail

bond, M.

be, that he Wlll put in and perfect special bail in open court, on

Afﬁdavit :9

such a day, (specifying the day ,) and, in that case, the plaintifff
may oppose the bail in court, without its being a waiver of the
bail bond.
43. Seer. XXVII. That every court and judge shall take the

ggliﬁgnbgl m fact to be true as sworn to in the afﬁdavit, to hold the party to
true.
Onreiurn 9f

bail, without going into the merits.
44. Seer. XXV III. That on the return of the capias ad

gqlmydfgggﬂ; respondendum, the defendant may appear in court, and render
himself in dish"
ball; and if
“Pam” PM he
not putin,shall
be committed,
5”
Upon what
‘em's de‘e'm‘

himself in discharge of his appearance bail; and upon such ren
der, the appearance bail shal be discharged; and in such case, if
the defendant do not immediately put in and justify special bail,
he shall be committed, and upon the entry of such committitur,
the plaintifff may proceed in the action, and declare against him,
as in custody.
45. Sac-r. XXIX. That subsequent to the return of the ca
pias ad respondendum, the defendant may render himself or be

ant ma render

himsel o_rbe_

rendered in discharge of his special bad, either before or after

rendered!" .d‘s' judgment: provided, that such render be made at or before the
charge ofhis
47‘ _
f h ﬁ
.
f .
.
h b
d
8p€Clﬂlball,be- appeaiance day 0 t e rst scire acias againstt e £11., returne

""6": "Elm" “scire feci,” or of the second scire facias returned “nihil,” or of
“jigging: the capias ad respondendum, or summons in an action of debt
such bailagainst the bail on his recognizance, returned, “served,” and not

_

Whamme
shall elapse beafter; (a) but in either case, the bail shall pay the costs of the said

suit’ and
judmnent
for the same shall
be. rendered aﬂainst
him
.
a
.
.
C
.

tween service accordingly: pi‘onded aIWays, that in either of the above writs
“rgcegslgrzmgf against the bail on his recognizance, there shall be at least ﬁfteen
Special bn‘ii_
days between the service and the return thereof.
Minnie of the 46. Sac-r. XXX. That the court or judge before whom the
render-“m1
render is made shall make an entry or minute of such render
commitment of
.
’
.
defendant.
and commitment; and thereupon the defendant shall be commit
ted to the custody of the sheriff or jailer, attending the said court
or judge.
0n commit47. SECT. XXXI. That on such render or commitment, duly
mm“ cle'k ‘° certiﬁed to the clerk of the court, if done in vacation, it shall be
enter exonere~
.
an» on bail
the duty of such clerk to enter an exoneretur on the bail piece,
P‘elce~
. and thereupon the bail shall be discharged; provided, the said
- is effect, if
notice‘bev‘given bail give immediate notice of such render, to the plaintifff or his
‘° Flam“ attorney, if within the county.
Plgndingsb.

48. SECT. XXXII.

That in all personal actions, in which

aea?&zniafde_ any defendant shall, either before or after appearance, and before
fendnnl is in ﬁnal judgment, be committed to prison, the plaintifff shall proceed
pm” ‘° '-"" to ﬁle his declaration or other pleadincr within the same time
,
_
o9
‘
he would be required to do if the defendant were out on bail,
and shall furnish the defendant with a copy thereof; and if he

owe: the action

his) As to the effect of the decease ofthe defendant, see note to 50d: section of this

a pier. fail to do so, he shall be nonprossed. And such defendant shall
also ﬁle his plea or other pleading, within the time he would be
required to do if he were out on bail; and if he fail so to do, the
plaintifff shall be entitled to judgment by default, as in other cases.
49. Seen XXXIII. That no sheriff shall be liable to be called upon to produce the body of any defendant, on a capias ad
respondendum, returned, “I have taken the body,” unless he be
required so to do before the expiration of the second term after
the return of such capias.
50. Sizer. XXXIV. That after a capias ad satisfaciendum

Sheriﬂ' canan
gfigg‘j‘: {as
body, after se
“’“d m“
When Plaintiff

shall have been returned, “not found," by the sheriff, the plaintifff ,‘fg-‘gnlﬁﬁiaj
may proceed against the special bail, upon his, her or their recog- boil.
nizance. (a) And in all cases in which judgment shall be ren- Execution one
dered,
any county
in anyin court
this state,
of common
and the pleas,
personororinpersons
the supreme
against
court,
whom
in sued to tiny
such judgment or decree is,or shall be rendered, shall remove into, :31le l" ‘h"
or be residing in,an other county, or shall have property in any
'
other county, it sh I be lawful for the party in whose favor such
judgment or decree is, or shall be rendered, to sue out of the

ofﬁce of the clerk of the court rendering such judgment or de- To be executed
cree, the same process of execution, directed to the proper ofﬁcer and returned to

of such other county, as he might or could sue out against parties wﬁenﬂ‘ie

ce issued.

livmg in the same county; and process issued, shall be executed

and returned to the office from whence it may issue. (12) And
if the officer to whom such process may be directed and deliv- For what oﬂi
ered, shall neglect or refuse to execute and return the same “' "my be “‘
.
merced thereon
according to the command thereof, or pay over any money made
thereon, it shall be the duty of the court from which such pro
cess issued,on motion for that purpose, to amerce the said ofﬁcer
in the same manner as though he were an ofﬁcer of their own
proper county; on which amercement process of execution may
be taken out, as in other cases.

.51. Srch. XXXV. That if, at any time before or after judg~ WM." “'9'.”
~
,
V
ken in original
ment be rendered against
special
bail,
a writ
of~ elror
is
taken
wil‘upon
what
out and allowed, on the judgment against the principal, in the yerml Proceed

suit in which their recognizance was taken, the court may, on
motion, stay proceedings against such bail for a reasonable time,
on their paying all costs that may have accrued on the proceed
ings against them; and if, on such writ of error, the judgment
against the principal, in the suit in which the said bail are bound,
shall be ﬁnally reversed, so that the said principal be thereby

8,138,211,},
be stayed
Ifjudgrnent _
gagj‘ufjinﬂrj‘lv“
reversed. bail

discharged from said suit, then, and in that case, the bail shall d‘“h“'g°d'
be discharged from their recognizance.
(a) Special bail are not liable, if the principal dies after the return of the capias ad
satisfuciendum, “not found.“ and before the return under the 45th section of'this chap
ter, of the first scire facius against the bail, “executed,” or a second “nihil."—Ba1ik of
Mt. Plea!an Pollock, 1. O. R., 35.
(In As to the duty ofii sheriﬂ'in keepingn record of executions received l'roma count
other than his own, and levies made by virtue thereof, ace surnirrs AND cononus, 14th

to 17th sections. inclusive. For references to prior laws, as to issuing execution out of
the county, see ante p. 485. As to fees and their deposit, Km, when n
sa. is issued
to another county, see ante p. 40L 402‘

52. Seer. XXXVI.

How defend
ants served
with process,

may be pro
ceeded against,
though some
are not served.

Defendants
not served with
original pro
cess,

mu

be

made arties to
the ju gment
lg scire facias.
ow the scire
fucias served;
—Itseffect.

That it shall be lawful for the plaintifff,

after a writ shall have been returned served, on any one or more of the defendants, to ﬁle his declaration against such de
fendant or defendants; suggesting therein the return made on
such writ, as to such defendant or defendants, as have not been

served with the same, and shall proceed therein to ﬁnal judg
ment against the defendant so served, as in other cases.
53. Seer. XXXVII. That the plaintifff may, by a writ of
scire facias, after obtaining judgment as aforesaid, cause any de
fendant or defendants, on whom the original writ in said cause
had not been served, to be made parties to said judgment, unless
he or they show good cause why judgment should not be ren
dered against them; which scire facias shall be directed to the
sheriff of the county where such defendant or defendants reside,
and shall be returned served, before such defendant or defend

In like manner
personsliable
may be made
deéendants to
ju
con
fessge'fil ems
by one
or
more, and to
judgments on
appeals from
justice, &c.

ants shall be made a party to such judgment; and the defendants,
made a party to said judgment, as last aforesaid, shall be subject
to the same process on said judgment, as they would have been
liable to had they been served with the original process in said
suit.
54. Seer. XXXVIII. That when any person or persons shall
appear without process, in any court of common pleas, or su
preme court, and confess judgment in favor of any person, on
any bond, bill, note or other contract, wherein any other per
son or persons shall be jointly, or jointly and severally liable,
with the person or persons confessing such judgment; or where
any appeal shall be taken to the court of common pleas, from
the judgment of any justice of the peace, rendered on any such
bond, bill, note or other contract, and judgment shall be rendered
for the plaintifff, by the court of common pleas, in the cause so
appealed, the person in whose favor any such judgment shall
have been rendered in either of the causes aforesaid, may, by
writ or writs of scire facias, cause any person or persons, jointly,

On allowance
of habeas coy.
pus cum cause,
bond shall be
taken and cite
uon issued and
served as on
writ of error.

or jointly and severally, liable as aforesaid, to be made parties to
said judgment, in the same manner as is provided in the preced
ing section of this act; and the person or persons made parties
as aforesaid, shall be liable to the same process of execution as
is provided for in said section.
55. Sam. XXXIX. That when any writ of habeas corpus
cum causa shall be allowed, for removing a cause from the court
of common pleas into the supreme court, the clerk of the su
preme court shall take bond and security from the party apply
ing for such writ, as if such case was removed by writ of error;
and shall also make out and sign a citation to the adverse party,
which shall be served on him in the same manner, and within
the same time, as required on a writ of error: provided, that

In whal_ cases
such writ not
allowed.

no cause in which the matter in dispute does not amount to
one thousand dollars, shall be removed by the writ aforesaid,
Without a special allowance from one of the judges of the
sli‘ipreme court, which shall not be granted unless on good cause
s own.

56. Sac-r. XL. That the clerk of the court of common pleas Transcript of
shall return, with the writ of habeas corpus cum causa, a trans- {ccm‘jlw-lzf “3'
cript of the record of such court in said cause; and the supreme sgiiiewl'itl. 1

court shall proceed thereon in the same manner as if such suit Further Pm‘ceedings.

had been commenced, and such proceedings had therein.
57. Seer. XLI. That in all actions in any court of record, In an action
a bond,
upon any bond or other contract in writing, for the recovery of upon
&.c., for a pen
any forfeiture or penalty, for the nonperformance of any con- alty, plaintiﬂ'
_

tract or other agreement contained in any such bond or contract ﬁﬂgyﬁig‘gb:
in writing, the plaintifff may assign as many breaches as he shall as be my 586
see ﬁt and proper; (a) and the jury, in case they ﬁnd a verdict D“ ‘
be
in favor of the plaintifff, in any such action, shall assess damages “mi?
for such of the breaches, so assigned, as the plaintifff, upon the JIH'Y
trial of the issue, shall prove; and the court shall thereupon give
judgment for the full amount of the aforesaid penalty, and shall Judgment.
award execution thereon, for the amount of damages so by the
jury assessed, with costs. And if judgment shall be given for Judgment _ and
the plaintifff on demurrer, or by default or confession, the court

‘ before whom the action is brought, shall render judgment as
aforesaid for the penalty, and award execution for so much as
shall be then due according to equity; and when the sum for

execution in
such action up
on demurrer,
efsult or con
fession.

which execution should be awarded is uncertain, the same shall,

upon the application of either party, be assessed by a jury.
58. Snow. XLII. That in any action brought on a bond, article
of agreement, or other contract in writing, which has' a condi
tion or defeasance to make void the same, on the payment of a
less sum than the penalty that may be therein mentioned, at a
day and place certain, if the obligor or contractor, or his heirs,

executors or administrators, have paid to the obligee or con
tractec, or his executors or administrators, the principal and in
terest due by the condition or defeasance of such bond, article
of agreement, or other contract, though such payment was not
made strictly according to the condition or defeasance, yet it
may he pleaded in bar, and shall be as eﬁ'ectual as if the money
had been paid at the day and place, according to the condition
or defeasance, and had been so pleaded. (b)
(a) As to breaches being assigned in the declaration,see note to 63d section.
“The penalty of a bond is nominall recovered, but no more than the value of the

consideration,
penal sum is an(that
amount
is, the
greater
condition
than0'thethevalue
bond,)
of can
the consideration._"
be collected of the
Anobligor.
action Will
not lie to recover a penalty, unless the contract is underseal, or is a recognizance.
Where, thereforee. a lease, not under seal, contains a stipulation to pay, as rent,a part of
the crop, under a certain penalty, suit cannot be brogght tor the penalty. No more than
the value of the consideration or damages sustain
by the breach of a contract not

under seal, can be even nominally recovered—Nelson a. Ford. 5 O. R., 473.
When a bond recites that the obligors “are held and firmly bound,.'n the penalty of
one thousand dollars. for the performance of a marriage contract, which A. engages to
perform with M.,"the one thousand dollars is to be deemed a penalty. and not a debt or
li uidated damn es. An action of covenant will not lie upon such it bond—Abrams v.
[taunts r! al.,-l

. R., 214.

(b) As to payments.generally—If payment ol'adebt be made to an agent of the
creditor, who misnpplies the money, the principal,and not the party paying, must suffer
the consequences.—Bmwn v. BmMrim e! 01., 3 O, 11., 275.

If A. is indebted to 13,, and also to B. &, (30., and A. pays money to 3., the forrner
may direct its application to the dischar e of either debt; but if A. makes no applica

tion ofit. B. may direct its application.— 4. lb.
I

Plea of pay
ment, in action
upon penal
bond, &c., con

ditioned for
puyment'ofmo
ney, a bar, tho‘
payment not
according to
the condition;
59. SECT. XLIII.

[011“.

That when judgment, by default, confes

g‘ﬁcgzeé‘lcigsﬂu‘p‘f sion_or demurrer, as mentioned in the preceding section, shall
on default:de~ be given for the plaintitl in such action, he may_a_ssrgn as many
°' “'1‘ breaches of the covenants, agreements or conditions aloresald,
Execuiionmbe as he shall think ﬁt; and if the defendant, after such Judgment

. awed an"

entered, and before execution executed, shall pay into the court

‘L‘ldygnri'eililirl'pon where the action is or shall be brought, to the use of the plain
311:;gggllgr tiff, or his executors or administrators, such‘damages as the court

‘

" or jury shall assess, as herein before provided, by reason of all
or any of the breaches of such covenants, agreements or condi
tions, together with costs of suit, a stay of execution of the judg
ment shall be entered on record.
—-Or Mlisfac'
60. SECT. XLlV. That if, by reason of any execution exe
ggggéczuglr‘ld cuted, the plaintifff, or his executors or administrators, shall be
costs to vacate fully paid or satisﬁed, all such damages, so assessed, with costs
“ccmimlof suit, and the legal charges for executing the said executions,
the body, lands, goods and chattels of said defendant, shall be
thereupon forthwith discharged from the said execution, which
But the judg- shall likewise be entered on record; but, in every case, the said
judgment shall, notwithstanding, remain as a security to the
further breaches plaintifff, his executors and administrators, for any other breaches
which may afterwards happen of such covenant, agreements or
conditions; upon which the plaintifff, or his executors or admin
Scire facias for istrators, may have a scire facias against the defendant, his heirs,

furthe'brew‘es devisees, executors or administrators, assigning other breaches,
to summon him or them, respectively, to show cause Why exe

Damages for

cution should not be had or awarded on the said judgment; and
thereupon damages shall be assessed as aforesaid, and execution

g‘é"€:irng'e;;g‘ issue accordingly; and upon payment or satisfaction, in manner
pmqeedings ' aforesaid, of such future damages, costs and charges, as afore
25am stayed. said, all further proceedings on the said judgment shall be stayed;
'
and so on, as often as the same may happen: and the defendant,
his body, land, goods and chattels, shall be discharged from the
said execution, in manner aforesaid.

In whutuctions

61. SEcT. XL-V.

1

That if, at any time, pending an action on

igjy‘vlfﬁg‘éagm any bond, bill, note or specialty, for the payment of a sum cer
court the ntam, the defendant shall bring into court where the action shall

3n“; {Ed be pending, the principal and interest due on such bill, bond, note

eﬂ-ectf

or_spe_cialty, and all such costs as have accrued in any suit or
suits in law or equity, upon the said bond, the said money so
brou ht in, shall be deemed and taken to be in full payment and

satis action of such bond; and the court shall give jlidgment to
discharge the defendant from the same accordingly.
Same “1,36%

62. 8501‘. XLVI. That if, in any other suit, pending in either
of the courts, the defendant shall at any time bring into court,

and deposit with the clerk,f0r the use of the plaintifff, the amount
that he admits to be due, together with all costs that have then
accrued, and the plaintifff shall refuse to accept the same in dis

charge of his suit, and shall not afterwards recover a larger sum
than the sum so brought into court, exclusive of costs, he shall pay all costs that may accrue from and after the time such money
was so brought in and deposited as aforesaid.
63. Seer. XLVII. That it shall be lawful for the plaintifff in

The right to

several
replevin, or for the defendant or tenant, in every other action, plead
matters.

to plead in any court of record, with leave of such court, as
many several matters as he shall think necessary for his de
fence; (a) but if, on demurrer, any such matter be adjudged in
sufficient, costs shall thereupon be awarded by the court.
64. Sec-r. XLVIII. That it shall be lawful for the defendant
in any action, to plead .the general issue, and give any special
matter in evidence, which, if pleaded, would be a bar to such

action, giving notice, with the same plea, of the matter or mat
ters, so intended to be given in evidence. (1))
65. Seer. XLIX. That no plea in abatement, other than a
plea to the jurisdiction of the court, or when the truth of such
plea appears of record, shall be admitted or received, unless the
party offering the same, ﬁle an afﬁdavit of the truth thereof;

and where a plea in abatement shall be judged insufﬁcient, the
plaintifff shall recover full costs, to the time of overruling such
p lea.
66. (c)
Seer. L. That when any one or more of the partners of

Costs on de
murrer.
The right to
give special .
matter in cvr
dence under a
not'ce with the
plea of the
general issue.
Plea in abate
ment not ad
mitted without
afﬁdavit of its
truth, unless,
612.
Costa, if plea
insufﬁcient.

a company or association of individuals shall be sued, and the
person or persons so sued, shall plead in abatement that all the
partners are not joined in the writ, such suit, for that cause, shall
not abate; but the plaintiffor plaintifffs may forthwith sue out a
summons against the other partners named in the plea, and pro
ceed, in all respects thereafter, as though such other partners
had been included in the original suit. And if such partners,
named in said plea, cannot be found, the plaintifff or plaintifffs,
upon the return of said summons, may suggest in his declara
tion the names of those not found, and proceed as in other cases
where service is only made on part of the defendants; and no
other plea in abatement, for nonjoinder of parties, shall be al
lowed in the cause.
(a) if breaches of a bond, containing n collateral condition, are not assigned in the

declaration, the defendant, it is said, will not have an opportunity to plead several
matters, for he will be compelled to set forth his defense by rejoinder, and courts hold
that the authority to plead several matters, is not an authority to rejoin several mot
ters. The better practice, thereforee, is, to set out the condition and assign the breaches
in the declamlion.-State 0. Cafes, 6 U. R., 1:30. But, see the 59th sec. of this chapter.
(b) In strict legal acceptntion, the plea of non estfuclum is not a general issue; but is

deemed so, in covenant, within the meaning ofthis section.-—Urmtger‘s ndm‘r v. Gran- ‘
ger, 6 U. R., 35; Couct'er et al. v. Graham, 1 O. R., 330.
The notice must be of matter which, if pleaded, would bar the plaintifff's action; and
must be so preciscl stated, that if pleaded, it would not be bad on general demurrer.—
Reynold: et al. a. ogera‘ ez‘rs, 5 O. R., 169; Brazee at al. 0. Blake rl al., 5 O. R . 340.
The plaintifffcannot use the allegations in a notice, as admissions of facts, to affect the
defendant before tltejury, or to make out what is necessary to be proved under the gen
: eral issue.—Sullq{l' 2! til. 0. Gilbert, 8 O. R., 405.
Thelpotice is not so far regarded a part of the record, as that it can be dcmurrcd to.
(cl If an unmarried woman, one of several plaintiﬂ's, marries

endin

the suit, the

defendant may plead it in ubatement.—Garer 2! al. v. Dim-gun, T . R., ( art 1,) 179.
Where suit is brought against one of three joint contractors, as upon a contract made
by the defendant alone, the defendant may plead the omission in nbatement.-Mc.4rtlmr
,
.,6
U.

Suit not to
abate for the
nonjoinder of
partners as de

fendunts.
rocess and
proceedings af
ter plea in
abatement in
such case.

67. SECT. LI.

[011”.

That in all cases where a special demurrer

agglugnifpeml shall be overruled, costs may. be taxed and allowed the opposite
’
fgetrgfgigsmms
ejectment,k:c.,
Sgﬁtggehgtm‘l
recover‘costs.
Coslsmlbll"
' dv
f
£111
Esme“

party, to the time of overruling said demurrer.
68. Seer. LlI. That where several persons shall be named
defendants in actions of trespass, for an assault and battery, false
imprisonment, or in ejectment, and, upon the trial thereof, any
one or more of them shall be acquitted by verdict, every de
fendant, SO acquitted, shall have and recover his costs of suit, in
like manner as if verdict had been given against the plaintifff
.
.
.
generally. And in all cases where Judgment shall be given for
the defendant, he shall recover his costs against the plaintifff, and

,heref”

have execution for the same. 3a)

When

several

Costs, See, in 69. SECT. LIII. That in al actions of trespass quare clausum
slg'lund fregit, hereafter to be brought, wherein the defendant shall dis
when plea is claim, in his plea, to make any title or claim to the land in which

FumlnP‘l lb“ the trespass is supposed to be done by the declaration, and the
it was involuntary, tender of treSpass be by negligence, or involuntary, the defendant shall be
:gfo'zdsmlaefﬁ‘f admitted to plead a disclaimer, and that the trespass was by
claime'mmue, negligence, or involuntary, and a tender or oﬂer of sufﬁcient

amends for such trespass, before the action brought; whereupon
the plaintifff shall join issue; and if such issue be found for the
defendant, judgment shall be rendered avainst the plaintifff for
costs, and he shall be forever barred from all other suits concern

.

agJQZ°tlgcge$
son in posses"i°“ °fland be'
§8.233525
L‘ieclmtmting the same trespass.

70. Seer. LIV.

_

That no plaintifff shall proceed, in ejectment,

to recover any lands or tenements against a casual ejector, with
out ten days’ previous notice being given to the tenant in pos
session, if any there be. (h) And it shall be lawful for the court,
on application for that purpose, to make the tenant or landlord,

Who may be

,mdedefendam or both, or any other person claiming title _to the premises, de
(a) A verdict and judgment againstone joint tres sser,cannot be pleaded in bar to a
separate action against another joint irespasser.
he plaintifff, it seems, may have sep
arate actions, verdicts and judgments, but can have but one satisfaction. And, it is
said, if a joint action be brought against all the trespassers, they may sever in their
pleas, and the several issues may be tried by diﬂ'erent ‘uries, and separate and different
daina es assessed; and the plaintiﬂ' has his election of the damages so assessed, which
shall ind all the defendants who are found quilty.—- IVrig/it v. Latlirop, 2 O. R., 33.
Trespass is the proper action. if the defendant so ne ligently navigates his steamboat,
na to run foul of, and sink the ﬂat boat of the plaintifff—Cam: eta! o. M’ark, 20. R., 169.
Where the act is, in itself, unlawful, the plaintifff, it is said, is entitled to recover,sl
tho b no real damage is d0iic.—Cooper v. Hall,.')(). R., 320. See ante p. 586, note.
here, in an action of trespass against ﬁve, the plaintifff accepts a note from two,
payable at a future day, in satisfaction of the trespass as to the two, but not to operate
as a satisfaction as to the other defendants, the cause of action is discharged and satis
ﬁed as to nll.—Elli: v. Bitzer, 2 O. R., 89.
Although it may be that on action on the case, for injuries growing out ofcorponitc
acts and upon implied promises. may be brouuht against a corporation; yet a corpora
tion cannot be sued in an action of assault an battery; nor can a corporation be joined
with individuals in such action. In case of such joinder, the defendants may deman—
Orr v. Bank U. States et a1, 1 O. R., I. '.
_
Trespass quare clausumfrsgit will not lie against a corporation aggregate—Fools v.
Cilyqf Girl. 2141., 9 O. R., 31.
(b) This notice has been considered as legally given, by the service of the declaration
with the common notice attached. ten days before the ﬁrst day of the term to which it
is returned. The doctrine of notice to quit, as applied by courts of other countries, is
not applicable in this state. The only notice, in general, necessary _to enable a party to
recover in ejectment, is the ten da s' notice mentioned in this section ofthe statute.—
Lcssse of Spencer 0. Markel, 2 0. ii, 267. deffendant, in the place of the casual ejector. ((1) And in all actions
of ejectment, the plaintifff shall have the same beneﬁt and advan
tage from a joint demise, that he could from several demises;
and separate demises shall only be laid in the names of tenants
in common. (b)
As to ioint and
seven demises

(a) The court have no power to compel the tenant, or any other person, to become
defendant and make defense.

It is, however, discretionary with the court, under this

section. to admit persons who claim title, to be made party defendants to the action. if
the landlord of the persons in possession, who were served with the declaration, exhib
its aprimafacie right, he must be admitted to defend; and ifhe is a citizen or resident
of another state, the cause, upon his application, can be taken to the circuit court of the
United States—Doc v. Roe, 4 0. R., 435.
(b) “At common law,coparccneis and joint tenants were obliged to laya joint demise,
while tenants in cornan were forbidden to lay any other but separate demiscs. ‘The
same advantage shall be had/mm ajoinl, asfrom sqiarolc tIemtses,‘ mt ans, that, as ten

ancy in common was the only species of jotnt interest in which separate detnises must
be laid, hereafter, a joint demise should be equally proper. And when the statute de
clares that ‘separalc dsmius shall onl be laid in the name oflnmnls in common,‘ it means
to say, that tenanc in common is t 0 only species ofjmnl interest in which such ma
be the form of dec aring."—Leum 0 Adams cl al. v. Turner, 7 O. R., (Part 2,) 136?;
zlmseﬁ qfaélfasaie‘a heirs v. Long e! ., 2 O. R., 287; Lenses of Wilkinson v. Fleming,

A person, having exclusive title to lands, cannot unite with himself, in a jointdemise, _
persons having no title—Laue 0 Adams at al. v. Turner, 7 t). R., (Part 2,) 136
Where an objection is ﬁrst ta en in the court in bank, that the plaintiﬂ'shows title
in but one of his lessors, there bein

but one demise,and that from three, the cause will

be remanded to the circuit with cave to amend, upon payment of costs.-—Le.rue of
Buckley el al. v. Cabin», 8 .'R., 180.
'
The verdict and judgment ma be for any quantity of land less than the whole quan
tity claimed in the demise; an if the plaintifff declares for sixty acres, and proves an
undivided interest equal to forty nine acres, as tenant in common of the sixty acres, he
shall have a verdict andjudgment against a defendant who is in possession under a void
tax sale.—Treon's Lessee v. Emenck,ti O. R., 391. So, showing title to part of the
lands by virtue of deeds from some of the tenants in common who have the legal title,
is sullicient to entitle the plaintifff to recover, in ejectment, againsta trespasscr.—Lessee
of Bryant st 01. v. JIcCandleu, 7 O. R., (Part 2,) 135.

It may be proper to add here the decisions not elsewhere not iced, relating to this action.
As to adVerse possession, see ante note, p. 553. As to questions relating to deeds,
see ante note, p. 271. As to scire facias to reviVe a judgment, sec post p. 6‘72, note.
If, under a contract for the purchase of land. the buyer goes into possession without
any stipulation in the contract, express or implied, as to the possession, but claiming to
ho d under the seller, the buyer is an intruder, and may be dispossesstd by an action at
ejectment.—Leue¢ qupt‘m‘cr et al. v. March], 2 O. R., 267.
An alleged e uity, existing before the issuing’of a patent, cannot be set up, at law,
againﬁt tggslega tit e acquired by the patent.— save of Holt”: lm'n v. Hmiphill's heirs,
'J

The dwner ofa survey of lands in the Vir inia Military District, having but an e ui~
table Estate, cannot maintain the action.— rcsback el al. v. DIcArtltur,7 O. R.( art

1,) 14 .
Question.—\Vhethcr the holder of a final certiﬁcate of purchase, and payment at the
land oﬂice, has sufﬁcient title to recover in ejectment, against a person who shows no
title but possessioni—Court equally divided-me of Abram v. Will, 6 O. R., 164.
The plaintifff ‘s lessor, A., claimed by naked
ession, under a sale upon an execu
tion made in 1814. The defendant proved that e came into possession in IBIS, under a
writ of execution in ejectment, on a jud ment in a case where the lessor of A. was de
fendant. ﬁeld, that the evidence entitle the defendant to a verdict.—Druback et al. I‘.
flIcArlItur, 70. R., (Part 1,) 146.
A prior possession is presum tive evidence of title, and, unexplained or uncontradic
ted, is. it is said, a suﬁicient tit eto recover upon, in ejectment, against a mere intruder.

'l‘hercforo, actual prior possession by an ancestor, or actual possession of lands remain
ing uncultivated and in woods by an ancestor, claiming as owner, is suﬂicient to enable
the heir to recover in ejectment, against a subsequent possession of less than twenty
one yen rs, under an alleged purchase from the administrators of such ancestor.—Lesm
of Lwllow‘s heirs v. lllt‘Bride, 3 U. R., 240, IleI’F of Ludlow‘shet'ra v. Barr, 3 O. R., 398.
Where a plaintifff, after proving his prior possessory title, rests, and the defendant
then shovvs a paper title in himsc f. and rests; and the plaintifffthen shows a better pa
per title than the defendants in a third person and stranger, but in no way connects
iimsell' with it, excepting the proof of possession, he cannot recover. The prior posses
sion of the plaintifff, unless continued until the statute oflimitations comes in aid ofit,
will not raise the presumption that he has a deed from such third person and stronger.—
ernee of Ludlmn‘s heir: r. Barr, 3 O. R., 388
71. That the plaintiﬁ‘, on nﬂidavit of the delivery
of the declaration in ejectment, shall have judgment against the
term,if no one casual ejector, unless the tenant in possession, or landlord, or

be made defen' other proper person, shall apply to be made defendant, (0) and
dant, 6w.


enter into the common consent rule, Within the term to which

the said tenant had notice to appear.
When defend.
72. Sizer. LVI. That in ejectment, where the lessor of the
a!" "1“ del- plaintiﬂ' is unknown to the defendant, the latter may call for an
$51,115,533} account of his residence or place of abode, from the opposite at

‘heletsm °S

torney; and if he refuse to give it, or gives a ﬁctitious account

of a person who cannot be found; or, if the lessor of the plaintifff
costs,

shall not reside, or is not a freeholder, within the county where
such suit is brought, the court, on motion, before issue joined,

shall order security for costs to be given.
COMB. M.,
73.
when
. . SECT.
.
. LVIl. That in ejectment,
.
. . the lessor of the
when lessor of plaintitl resrdes out of the state, or is an infant or dead, (b) the
Parol evidence is proper to explain the nature of the possessory title of the plaintiff,
when that possession is not connected with any written title—Lessee qf Dﬂ‘ddtl v.
NCIIJFGM, 3 U. R., 57.
A collector‘s deed,purporting to be given upon a sale for taxes, though insuﬂ'icient to
convey title. may be given in evidence to show the extent of the possession claimed
under it.—l)resback 0! al. v. McArthur, 70. B., (Part 1,) 146.
A tenant, or those coming in under him, cannot eontrovert the title of the landlord.

Therefore, if A. enter into ossession of land under B., and B. claims to derive title
from 0., it seems that A s all not be permitted to prove that C never had any legal
title; for, it would. in effect, permit A. to dispute the title of B7 But where the land
lord's title expires subsequent to the demise, the tenant may show the fact that the title
of the landlord ha determined, and so defent'the action of ejectment brought by the
landlord—Lessee of Banach! v. Newman, 3 O. R., 57.
It eems,where A. is shown to be the common source from which both

'trties derive

title, it is not competent for either to deny the title of A—Douglass o. colt, 5 O. R.,
197. Therefore, where a defendant in ejectment had purchased the interest of a lessee
of school lands, under a sale for the nonpayment of rent, and was sued in ejectment for
the same lands by the heirs of the lessee; it was held, that the defendant should not be
permitted to impeach the validity of the lease—Lessee of Hart 1:. Johnson, 6 O. B., 87.
In ejectment, brought by the mortgagee against the mortgagor, the latter will not be
permitted to defeat a recovery, by showing that the mortgage was given to induce the
mortgagor to suppress a criminal prosecution: the contract is an executed one—Lessee

of Rogue! a. Roll, 7 O. R., (Part 2,) 70.
it is no defense in cjectnient, that after the suit was commenced, the lessor of the
plaintifff took possession of the premises in dispute; Lessee qf IiIcChesney o. H’ain
wright, 5 O. R., 452; or aliened the premises—Lessee of Dawson 1:. Porter, 2 O. R , 304;
Lessee Qf Illassit‘s heirs a. Long at al., 5 O. R., 287.
It is said that in ejectrnent, matters of defense. arising after issue joined,must, as in
other suits, be brought forward by plea alter the last continunnce - ersec Q/Mcf‘lm
my 1:. lVainwright, 5 O. R., 452.
_
A judgment in ejectment is liable to be made void, by the party against whom Judg
ment is rendered, prosecuting another ejecttnent against the party who obtained judg
ment in the revious action, and recovering against him. The seeondjudgment makes
the ﬁrst voidl

Until thus made void, or until reversed for error, it is as conclusive

between parties and privics, for the time laid in the declaration, as a judgment in any
other action—Hinton v. DIcNiel at 111., 5 O. R., 509.
If a plaintiﬂ'in cjectment has been at in ossession b virtue of an execution in the
action, or has obtained possession a ter ju gnicnt, wit out an extcution, he has ob
tained the object of his suit; and if afterwards ousted, he cannot, in either case, have
an execution. but must bring a new action—Id. lb.
The declarations and conduct ofa person. with regard to land of which he possesses
the clear legal title, cannot be allowed to affect that title, at law.~Les.rre of li'allacc v.
Miner, 60. R., 370. And, see IVilliama 0. Champion 21:11., ti 0. R., 169.
(a) As to who may be made defendant, see preceding section, and note (a) thereto.

~

(b) The demise, for the purposes of justice, is considered a real transaction, and must
have the appearance of a legal one. A proohim amy has no power to lease the lands
of his protegempd thereforee cannot make a demise in ejectment. And, it is said, it'the
lessor of the plnmttﬂ'die, it does not affect the suit. for the plaintifff still holds his lease
hold estate.—Lessee qf Maur'l'l hair: i). Long 0! 01., 2 O. R., 987.
court, on motion before issue joined, may stay proceedings, until
a. real and substantial person, resident of the county, be named,
or security be given for the payment of costs.
74. SECT. LVIII. That if any action for mesne proﬁts shall.
be brought, in the name of the nominal plaintiﬁ' in ejectment,
the court, on motion, before issue joined, may stay proceedings
until security be given for the payment of costs. (a)
75. Ssc'r. LIX. That if an infant be entitled to any action,

his guardian or next friend, shall be admitted to prosecute for

pluintiﬁ' resida
outpfstute, is
an infant, or
W t

—-Or when ac
tion for mesne
proﬁts is in
name of nomi
nal plaintifff.
How actions
prosecuted and
defended by in
firms.

him; (b) and if he be sued, a guardian shall be appointed to de
fend the suit for him; but in no case shall the parol demur, or But parol shall
the proceedings be deferred or stayed, till the infant arrives at not demur, doc.
full age, neither at common law nor in chancery.
76. Snow. LX. That every attorney who shall confess judg When attorney
confessing
ment in any case, shall, at the time of making such confession, judgntent,shnll
produce his warrant for making the same, to the court before produce war
whom he makes the confession, if required so to do; and a copy rant therefore.
Copy of war
of the said warrant shall then be ﬁled with the clerk of the court rant to be ﬁled.
in which the judgment shall be entered. (0) And no warrant of
attorney for confessing a judgment, executed by any person in Warrant of at
torney by one
custody, upon mesne process in a civil action, to the plaintifff at in
custody not
whose suit he is in custody, shall be of any force, unless some ood, unless,
attorne , on behalf of such person in custody, and expressly c.
named by him, be present and sign the said warrant of attorney
as a witness.
77. Seer. LXI. That if any informer on a penal statute, to In what cases
on a
whom the penalty, or any part thereof, if recovered, is directed informer
enal statute
to accrue, shall discontinue his suit or prosecution, or shall be shall pay costs.
nonsuited in the same, or if, upon trial, judgment shall be ren
dered in favor of the defendant, such informer shall pay all
costs accruing on such suit or prosecution, unless such informer
be an ofﬁcer whose duty it is to commence such suit or prose
cution.
'
(a) Assumpsit for use and occupation, after a recovery in ejectment, will not lie to
recover rents and proﬁts accruing after the date of the demise laid in the declaration.—
Butler 0_ Cowlcs,40. R- 205; Sumard v. DIcBride, 3 O. R., 264. But it is said the ac
tion will lie for rents and proﬁts accruing previous to such demise—Id. Ib.
A stipulation was containedin a lease that the tenant might, at the expiration ofthe
lease, remove all new buildiufsmnd was notiﬁed to do so.

In an action against him

for mesne proﬁts, it was hel , that the mode of compensation for improvements and
the kind of erections Were settled by the agreement of the parties, and that compensa
tion could not thereforee be allowed to the defendant, in the notion for the mesne proﬁts.

—Worlhingtmt v. Young, 8 U. R., 401.
v (b) When the plaintifff declares by his next friend, the minority should be sverred, that
it may
_trnversed;_ and if not alleged, and it does not a pear of record, it cannot avail
a plamttﬁ’m error; for, il'the record does not show that ﬁe was a minor, it will be pre
sumed that he was of age, and the curatorship be rejected as surplusage.-—Hanley et al.
v. Levin, 5 O. R., 227.
'
(c) A judgmentconfessed mustbeentered in term time; and whether so entered, may
2; agcgrtliilnezdi,2 by inspecting the docket and entry.—JIall/rews' Lessee v. Thompson et
. .,
.
.,
Where a partner made It bond and warrant of attorney, to confess jud ment, under
seal, and In the name of the ﬁrm, upon which judgment was confessed he ore the other
partner had anyltnowlodge of the transaction, it was held, that the remedy of the latter
was to have the judgment vacated, on motion, in the court that rendered the jud ment.
A court of chancery, thereforee, will not give relief". McKee r. Ball-k qf' MI. I' msun'.
7 O. R., (Part 2,) 175.
In certain ac
tions. plaintifff
recovering less
than ﬁve dol
lars. shall not
recover costs.

[CHAP

78. SE01". LXII. That in all actions for libel, slander, mali
cious prosecution, assault or assault and battery, action on the
case for a nuisance, or against justices of the peace for miscon
duct in ofﬁce, if the jury, on the trial of the issue, or on in airy
of damages, shall ﬁnd and assess the damages under ﬁve do arc,
the plaintifff shall not recover any costs. (a)
.
(a) As to an action on the case before a justice for a nuisance. see ante p. 525.
Liner. axu stamina—In lVafson a. Track, 6 O. R.. 531. the court say: "Where
one falsely and maliciously, orally charges another with any thing involvin moral tur
ritude. which,if true, will subject him to infamous punishment,or, that ten toexclude
tim from society. or to prejudice him in his ofﬁce, profession, trade or business. the
party accused may seek redress by a suit in slander, and recover. without proof of actual
damagev Where the words are false, the law infers malice, and where their‘natural
tendency is to injure, the law presumes damages. Where the slander is written and
published. it is denominated libel. A libel. in reference to individual injury, maybe
deﬁned to be a false and malicious publication against an individual, either in tint or
writing. or by pictures, with intent to injure his reputation, or expose him to pu lie ha
tred, contempt, or ridicule. Whatever charge will sustain a suit for slander, where the
words are merely spoken, will sustain a suit for a libel. if they are written or printed,
and published; and, it will be seen at one glance, that man charges, which, if merel
spoken of another, would not sustain a suit for slander. wi . if written or printed, an
published. sustain a suit for libel. Words of ridicule only, or of contempt. which merely
tend to lessen a man in public esteem. or to wound his feelings, will support a suit for
libel, because of their being embodied in a more permanent and enduring form; of the
increased deliberation and malignity of their publication; and of their tendency to pro
voke breaches of the mblic peace. This we understand to be the settled law of libel in
this state, sustained y the uniform decisions of our courts. without a single exception
within our knowledge."
It is a libel to charge a man with infringing upon a regularly granted patent for an
improved mill.~Id. Ib.
v
' ‘crms of general abuse are not libcllous, unless their natural tendency be to axons to
passion and revenge, or to degrade or lessen the standing of the party abused—Tapper;
t1. th'lson, 7 O. R.. (Part1,) 190.

\Vortls spoken in discharge of oﬁicial duttiy are not actionable; but if spoken wantonly
and magctﬁusly. under pretense ofoﬁic'tal uty. they are actionable—Gme v. Tap
n. 1sag. tit“ .a60.
pa'l‘o
tghite person. “He is akin to negroes," is not actionable—Anonymous,

note, 1

. u, 81.

To say of a physician “He cannot get business any morez—he is so steady drunk that
he cannot do business any more; the people will not employ him," is not actionable.—
'Illfile] wriédsﬂ’though spoken of a physician, do not relate to professional integrity or

s t .—- .

.

A charge that Aireceived a letter to convey, containing money. giving himself a
false name at the time, and that he promised to deliver the letter, but broke it 0 en and
used the money, is a charge of larceny, and actionable. And where the proo in such
case showed that he opened the letter and took the money, but under circumstances
which rendered it doubtful whether a technical larceny was fully proved. and the jury
rendered a verdict for more titan nominal damages. the court granted a new trial.—
Chemile 1:. 1311.011. 6 U. B., 67.
Different sets of distinct words maybe charged in one count—Churchill v. Kcmble. 3
0. IL, 409. A general verdict on such count will not be disturbed, on writ of error, if
any one of the set ofwords in the count is actionable—III. .lb.
"QIucstion.—thther it be sufﬁcient to charge the substance only of words spoken.—
c .

I).

It is no defense. to plead that when the words were spoken the defendant named his
author. and to prove, on the trial, that such third person had spoken the words. Proof of
these facts is proper under the general issue. to mitigate the damages, doc—Heine: v.
lVelling, 7 O. R.. (Part 1,) ‘253.

_

A plea of justiﬁcation is bad on eneral demurrer, if it does not distinctly admit the
speaking-of the wards—Davis v. i lalthcws, 53 O. B., 257.
Where the words spoken were, “You are a thief: you stole geese." it was held that
the defendant, under the general issue. and in miti tion of malice and damages, might
prove that the plaintiﬂ'had driven away from a third rson a ﬂock of geese owned by

such third erson; it being a circumstance tending to s low that the defendant had prob
able groun s for believing the truth ofthe words—"Wilton 1!. Apple, 3 O. R, 270.
Under the

cneral issue, the defendant, in mitigation of damages, may prove that the

plaintifff, at t to time ofspeaking the words. was under a general SUSIIlCIOTI of haying
icen guilty of the charge imputed to him. The defendant may also give cytdence oi
the genera bad character of the plaintifff; and this may be done. ulthmtgh. to the plea
79. Seer. LXIII.- That if, in any suit or action in the court Whenjudgcsof
number
of common
of disinterested
pleas, it shalljudges
so happen
of such
thatcourt,
there to
is not
Sit on
a sufficient
the trial shall said the

of any particular cause then and there pending, it shall be the ﬁgegnngjegij
duty of such court, on the application of either party, to cause tifythecaugeto
the fact to he entered on the minutes of the court, and also to 193"“ WITH
order an authenticated copy thereof, with all the proceedings in L“ '
such suit or action, to be forthwith certiﬁed to the next supreme
court of the county; which supreme court shall thereupon take
cognizance thereof, in like manner as if it had been originally
commenced in that court, and shall proceed to hear and deter
mine the same accordingly. (a)
80. Sacr. LXIV. That no suit or action pending in any court, Certain suits
except those mentioned in the sixty second section of this act, "°' ‘° “hm by
(b) shall abate by the death of either or both of the parties there- iiiiiagémh or
to; but the cause of action shall survive, and the executor or

.

administrator of such deceased party, whether plaintifff or de
‘ fendant, shall have a right to prosecute or defend any such suit _Exe¢uigr or
or action, unto ﬁnal judgment and execution; and every execu- Effing'rggccwgm
tor or administrator of any such deceased defendant, is hereby an mam
of not
ilty, is added a 'ustification, andjthe defendant attempts and fails to prove the
truth 0 the words. W en the defendant thus attacks the character of the plaintifff, or
the defendant has given any evidence in support of the plea of justiﬁcation, the plaintifff
may give evidence of his general good character. And although in all these cases the
parties must conﬁne themselves to general character, and no proof min he received of
character in respect to particular things, or as to particular facts, yet proof of circum
stances of suspicion, not amounting to a justiﬁcation, which led the defendant to utter
the slander, may be proved under the general issue, to lessen the degree of malice, and
to mitigate the damages—Detail v. Greenﬁeld, fi 0. R., 225.
ASSAULT AND BATTERY.—Ifih9 plaintifff counts on both an assault and battery, and
false imprisonment, and the damages assessed are under ﬁve dollars, he cannot recover
his costs—Bell v. Bales, 3 0. R., 380.

The pics. of guilty, upon indictment for an assault and battery, and judgment found
ed upon it, may be given in evidence in a civil action for the some assault and battery.

But such plea, like any other confession of ii party, may be controveried by him, in the
civil suit—Clark at al. v. Irvin, 9 O. R., 131.
A party siding or advising the commission of an assault and battery, is liable to the
party injured for the assault and battery, although not personally present at its com.
mission—Bill v. Miller, 5 O. R., 230.
(:1) Where the judges of the court of common pleas were so interested that a quorum
could not sit to take proof of s will, it was held that the case could not be certiﬁed to
the supreme court for takinn such proof, it not being a proceeding of an adversary
shaman—Hunter's IVill, 6 . R., 499. This decision was made prior to the
songs
of the act now in force, relating to wills, &c. See wraps, 17th section. An app ication
to redepm land sold for taxes is of the nature of a suit or action, and maythereforee be
so certiﬁed iip.—Raw.mn v. B0!!"lilon,' Turner 0. Boughlon, 50. R., 3'18; utcannot be
up ealed.—Street 0. Francis, 3?). R., 277.
Me associatcjudges of the court of common pleas are not disqualified from interest,
to try a cause in which the commissioners of the county are plaintifffs, and money of the
county the subject of cantroversy.—-Commiuionm of Clermcnt county 1:. Lyllc, 3 0.
., . .
The facts from which the court of common pleas make up an opinion, and certify as
true, that there is not a sufﬁcient number of disinterested judges to try the cause, must
he set out in the record, so that the supreme court may be sure that jurisdiction is not
imposed upon theni.—K1iaggs u. Conant, 2 0. It ‘26.
(b)_ if, in an action of slander, an appeal bond is ﬁled, but before the transcript or papers in the case are ﬁled in the supreme court, the appellant dies, the suit chutes—Long
ii. IIi'rIicork, 30. R., 5271.
Such suits to be
determine-d us
justice may re
quire.

Executor or ad
minisirutor, ne
glecting to be
come a party to

suit, citation
may issue
against him.


required and obliged to become a party to said suit or action,
and to defend the same accordingly. (a)
81. Sam. LXV. That the court, before whom such suitor

action may be pending and undetermined, is hereby authorized
and required to ear, try and determine the same, and to render

judgment for or against the executor or administrator of any
such deceased arty, according to the justice of the case.
82. Sam. L V1. That if the executor or administrator of

the deceased plaintifff or defendant, shall neglect or refuse to
apply to the court, where such suit or action may be pending, at
or during the session thereof, next succeeding the death of such
party, the court shall, at the same term, order the death of such
party to be suggested on the record, and a citation to issue, re
turnable to the next term thereafter; whereby the said executor
or administrator of such deceased party, shall be cited to appear
at the return term of the said citation, and cause himself to be
made a party to said suit or action, instead of his testator or in
testate.

nonsuited,with

83. SECT. LXVII. That if the executor or administrator of
such deceased plaintifff, shall neglect or refuse, after having been
duly served with sucthitation, to become a party to the said
action, the court shall thereupon render judgment of nonsuit
against the said executor or administrator as such, for costs of

costs.

suit.

Executor or ad
ministrator of
defendant,cited
and neglecting
to become per
i , how court
slinll proceed.

84. Sec-r. LXVIII. That if the executor or administrator of
such deceased defendant, shall, after having been duly served
with such citation, ne lect or refuse to appear and become a

Executor ornd
ministrntor of
plaintifff. cited,
and neglecting
to become por
ty, shall be

When one of
two or more
plaintifffs or de
fendants dies,
survivor may
prosecute or

defend.

Siig cation of
dcaifi.

party to the suit or action, the court shall cause the appearance
of such executor or administrator to be entered; and the cause

shall thereafter be roceeded in, and tried in the same manner,
and such jud ent e rendered therein, as if such suit or action
had been originally brought against such executor oradminis
trator. (b)
85. Snow. LXlX. That if, in any suit or action, there be two
or more plaintifffs or defendants, and one or more of such plain
tiffs or defendants shall die before ﬁnal judgment, such suit or
action shall not thereby abate, but the cause of action shall sur
vive to the. surviving {plaintifff or plaintifffs, and against the sur
viving defendant or de endants; and such death being suggested
on the record, the suit or action shall proceed in the same man
ner as if such death had not happened.
(a) As to an administrator dc bonis non becoming party to a shit at law or in chan
rery, which was pending at the time the former ndminisinitor or the executor resigned,
was removed, or died. or his letters revoked, see 137th seciion of this chapter, and time

p. 384. As to revivingn judgment after the decease of u plaintifff or defendant, see
10_fiili and 106th sections. As to proceedings on a judgment, when an executor or ad
ministrator, party thereto, dies, is removed, or resigns, see 139th section.
(bi “As if such suit or action had been originally brought against such ezeculor or ad
I7tiﬂulrﬂiur:“ iherelbre the jud ment for costs must be the some as if the. suit had, ori
gnully, been brought against i e executor or administrator—Farrier v. Coirm‘ cz‘r, 5
. IL, 45; and see note to 135th section ofthis chapter.
86. Ssc'r. LXX. That after ﬁnal judgment, the surviving
plaintifff or plaintifffs may, by writ or writs of scire facias, cause
the executor or administrator of any such deceased defendant or
defendants, to be made parties to said judgment; which scire
summons
facias shallis,beor served
may be,
and
required
returned
to in
be the
served
same
and
manner
returned
thatby
a

669
Esecutororad
g‘e'é‘éjs‘gtngegf
dant may be
.msde Pm‘by ‘°
~50“ "Wed

law. a)

87.( Sacr. LXXI.

That any judgment obtained or rendered How Buchiuds

under the preceding sections, against the executor or adminis- 3,922,332?“
trator of any such deceased party, shall be considered as stand- administrator

ing in the same situation as an

other allowed or liquidated °°“e°‘°d'

demand; and shall be paid by suc executor or administrator at
such times, and in such proportion, as other just demands against
the estate of such testath or intestate.
88. SECT. LXXII.

That no action of ejectment, or for waste, Action ofeject

pending in the court of common pleas, or supreme court, shall
abate by the death of the defendant before ﬁnal judgment; but
the cause of action shall survive against the heir 0r devisee of
any such deceased defendant. And such heir or devisee may
be made a party defendant to any such action, in the same manner that an executor or administrator may be made a party to
any personal action, according to the foregoing ections of this

$351253};
death of defen
gggzyggslr‘rfg;
be made ar
“wind ‘°“'

act.

89. Snor. LXXIII. That if the heir or devisee of any such (11ft??ch heirgdor
deceased defendant shaJl, after having been cited in the manner uﬁﬁ‘ﬁgﬁc', ,‘o
aforesaid, neglect or refuse to appear and become a party to such become Party. 1

action, the court shall cause the appearance of such heir or de- 3w?" "1"
visee to be entered; and the cause shall thereafter be proceeded
in and tried, and the same judgment shall be rendered therein,
as if such action had been originally brought against such heir
or devisee.

90. Sscr. LXXIV.

That if any person, having a right to 5.181" and ll"

commence and maintain an action of trespass, or tres ass on the f;,"Z§?,i‘,f"°“

case, for mesne proﬁts; or, for an injury done or su ered to his wrlq. 5w" *0

estate, real or personal; or, for any deceit or fraud committed sumve’a‘c'
in the sale or exchange thereof; or, if any person liable to either
of such actions shall die before such action shall be brought, the
cause of such action shall nevertheless survive. And any such
action may be brought by the executor or administrator of the
deceased party, having such right of action, or it may be brou ht
against the executor or administrator of the deceased party, ia
ble to such action; and it may be proceeded in to ﬁnal judgment
'(a) Judgment was rendered against A. and B., and B., who was surety for A., then

died._ Scire facias was allowed to be issued against the administrators of B., u'nd the
survivor, A., jointly, to revive the ‘udgment, and to have execution against the property
of A. and the assets. &c.,of B.—émtemrille Canal and Ill. Co, v. Grangcr‘s adm‘r 5'! al.,

7 0. human 1,) 165.
The on ital action wns_upon a bond. Scire facias was issued to make a deceased
obl' or, w 0 had died riding the action, a party to the judgment. Upon plea of non
estfzcmm t0 the scire itcias, it was held sufﬁcient to set forth the substance of the bond,
"1 unnecessary ‘0 graduce the record of the judgment, or to ivc evidence of the breach
of the condition of t 0 bond, or of the damages sustained.
he issue was the making
of the bond and the damages were liquidated by the judgment.-—Bmzce et al. 1». Blair:

s a“ 5 o. it, 340.
and execution, as in other cases, for or against executors and
administrators.
‘
When can" 0,- 91. Seer. LXXV. That the said courts,‘or any president
judge "Hyd,

judge thereof in vacation, shall each have power to grant a com

ﬁﬁ‘pﬁmjw‘.‘ mission, or dedimus potestatem, to take deposrtions, according
“1111to the common usages of courts, where it may be necessary to

prevent the delay or failure of justice. A_nd each of said courts,
What courts to sitting as a court of equity, shall have power, on application for
tiepgigiep that purpose, to order and direct depositions to be taken in per
,me ,emt’mon, petuam rei memoriam, relating to any matter cogniaable by such
court, according to the usage of courts of equity, in like cases.
Con,“ my 8,.

92. Sam. LXXVI.

That it shall be. the duty of _the judges

wbliqh rules of of either of said courts, from time to time as occasion may re

p"°“°° "°“°' quire
to make rules .and orders for their
respective. courts;
to
_
’
.

pugnant tolaw.

Rules of suwﬁnfggé'

direct the mode of taking rules and entering and making up judg
ments by default or otherwise, in a manner not repugnant to the
laws of this state; to regulate the practice of t c said courts
respectively, as shall be ﬁt and necessary for the advancement
of justice, and especially to prevent delay in proceedings; and
cause such rules to be entered on the journals of the court of
such county. And, in order that the rules of practice and pro
ceedings of the several courts of common pleas may be uniform,

common pleas and, as near as may be, conformable t0 the rules of the supreme

in “ch “"11"?” court, the judges of the supreme court shall order the clerk of
the said court to transmit copies of their rules and regulations
How far mes to the clerks of the courts of common pleas in every county,
of common

that the judges of the said courts shall, from time to time, make

1°" ‘° ufn‘ f rules and regulations agreeably thereto, as near as .may be, for
.ZLTJ‘iJ‘Loﬁ. the practice of their courts respectively.

Plain,“ ,0 de.
93. Sac-r. LXXVII. That the plaintifff or his attorney, if re
li'“ !° defend' quired, shall deliver to the defendant or his attorney, a copy of

Qiiﬂﬂlligppy'ﬁ the account or bill of particulars of the demand, or a copy of the
writineﬂe-wn bill, bond, deed, bargain, contract, note, instrument or other

gift?" he sues‘ writing, whereon the declaration is founded, or which he intends
'
to offer in evidence at the trial.
-Wlmt copies
94. Snow. LXXVllI. That the defendant or his attorney, if

2;“?ng
required, shall. deliver to the plaintifff
or -his attornev,
a copy~ of
' , elendant
- -'
shall furnish any deed or instrument of writing, of which, in his plea, he shall
plains". if '8' make prol'ert; or, a copy of any bill, bond, deed, note, receipt,
quue '
bargain, contract, instrument of writing, or bill of particulars
of any account or demand, which he intends to offer in evi
Eitherpsrty re- dence at the trial of the cause. And if the plaintifff_or defendant
$3;"%,~;h§1,;?‘ shall refuse to furnish the copy or copies required, agreeably to
ml inevidence- the provisions of this section, or the preceding section, the party
so refusing shall not be permitted to give in evidence at the
trial, the original, of which a copy has been refused as aforesaid.
pal-lie; m no.

95. SECT- LXXIX.

That the party, whether plaintifff or de

‘icﬂhe ﬁlinsof fendant, shall take notice of the ﬁling (a) of the declaration, or
(a) The proper practice is,_to indorse the time when a paper is ﬁled in an ofﬁce, or in
court. Stills paper, laced in an office, either strung upon a thread. or laid in a drawer,
or pigeon hole, is ﬁl ,wlthin the terms of the statute, requiring a paper to be filed—other pleading in the cause, at his peril, without service of a pleadings at

copy and notice of the ﬁling of such declaration or other plead- me" Pe’d'
ing, except as herein before excepted.
96. Sscr. LXXX. That the defendant, at any time before 'Actionsconsol
actions,
issue joined,
or to may
strikemove
out superﬂuous
the court counts
to consolidate
in the declaration.
unnecessary ﬁuous counts.
97. Ssc'r. LXXXI.

That when there are issues in law and Issuesin law

in fact, the issue in law shall be determined, before the issue in
fact shall be tried.
98. SECT. LXXXII. That where judgment shall be entered
by default, against the‘ defendant,‘the court shall assess the
damages, unless the plaintiff or defendant request a writ of inq mrv.
99. Snow. LXXXIII. That the party against whom a verdict

hath been rendered, may move for a new trial, (a) and, if it be
denied, may then move in arrest of judgment; (b) but he. shall
not be permitted to move for a new trial, after a motion in arrest
of judgment.
100. Sac-r. LXXXIV. That every special verdict and demurrer to evidence, shall be entered on the minutes of the court;
after which, either party may move the court to assign a day for
arglléll.
ment.
Sscr. LXXXV. That if execution shall not be sued out

m med'
On defaultsthe
dng:
unless, 6w.
Motion for a

Taggﬁf)‘:
in arrest.

Proceedings on
igﬁ‘ﬂdexu'glfg;
to evidence.
Judgmentstam

within ﬁve years from the date of any judgmentthat now is, or WP, 0211;33
that may hereafter be rendered in any court, Within this state; tion. becomes
last
or, ifexecution
ﬁve yearsissued
shall on
have
any intervened
such judgment
between
obtained
theasdate
aforesaid,
of the
'
and the time of suing out another writ of execution thereon, such

judgment shall become dormant, and shall cease to operate as a
ien on the estate of the judgment debtor.
102. SECT. LXXXVI. That if such judgment still remain un- --Butdebt may

satisﬁed, it shall be lawful for the plaintifff, his heirs,executors or ggcggggggegp
administrators, to bring and maintain an action of debt on such or it may be '
Therefore a warrant, de utin an under sheriﬂ', is valid, if ﬁled with the clerk, though
the ﬁling be not indorsed; an , in the absence of any testimony with regard to the pa
per, exce t that it had been in the clerk‘s ofﬁce, it will be presumed, it seems, that it
was regu arly ﬁled ~Haines v. Lindsey, 4 U. R., 88.
(a) For decisions as to a new trial, see note to 113th section.
(b) As 'ro ARREST or Jumwtizu'r.—Judgment will not be arrested on account of a de
parture in leadinﬂ, ifsufficient appears to show for whom judgment ought to be given
on the ver ict.— ord/m et al. v. James el al., 5 O. R., 88.

Wheres material fact is omitted in the declaration, and the defendant, instead of
demurring, byfplea sets up the fact omitted, in such a manner that it becomes necessary
for the plainti to establish the fact before the jury, to entitle him to a verdict, and the
Jury render a verdict in his ﬂavor, the defendant cannot have thejudgment arrested.—
.M'chcly u. Vault/ls, 2 O. R., 197.
_Ifit appears from the declaration that the plaintiti'had no cause of action, the verdict

wrllnot cure the defect. Mere formal defects, and such defects as arise from the man
ner in which the laintiﬂ' sets out his cause of action, are, it is said, cured by the ver
dict; provided su cient appears to satisfy the court that the plaintifff had a ood cause
of action. So,aiter verdict, every promise laid in a declaration is presum
to bean
express promise. Therefore, where the declaration set out that the defendant received
from the plaintifffs speciﬁed sum of money, which he promised to pay, &,c., without
stating that the money was received to the plaintiﬂ' ‘s use it was held that the judg

ment could not be arrested; for, it must be presumed that

e plaintiﬂ'satisﬁed the 'ury

that the money was received to his use, or my would not have found a verdict for 'm.
—-.‘I'trﬁrld r. Johnston st 141., 2 O. R,, 201.
revivcd by scire
facius against
defendant,
heirs, &.c.

How such scire
fectas served;

—Pleeding, de
fence and judg
ment, doc.

PRACTICE—ClVIL—AT LAW.

[CHAP

dormant judgment, against the defendant therein, his heirs,
executors or administrators; or, such plaintifff, his heirs, execu
tors or administrators may, at his or their election, revive, by
writ of scire facias, sued out from the court rendering such judg
ment, or from the court having power to award execution there
on, any such judgment remainin unsatisﬁed, and have execution
thereof, against the defendant, his heirs, executors or adminis
trators. (a)
103. Seer. LXXXVII. That on the said writ of scire facias
being returned, “scire feci,” or on two writs of scire facias being
returned, “nihil,” the defendant shall be considered in court, and
may be proceeded against accordingly.
104. Snc'r. LXXXVIII. That the defendant, his heirs, exec
utors or administrators, shall be admitted to plead any matter,
(a) See ante p. 669, note.
There is no new Judgment recovered n on it scire facins to revive a jud ment: the
old one is called into action.—Norton 0. cover et al., 5 0. R., 178; Reyna : er al. v.
Ez‘rs of Rogers, 50. R., 169; lVolf v. Poundsford, 4 O. R., 397.
Where a judgment was revived, a writ of error on the order of revival obtained, and
a bond given on the writ oferror, held, that the bond extended to the judgment revived.
—Re
:1 al. v. Ex‘rs of Rogers, 5 O. R., 169.
So or as the debtor is concerned, the lien ofa revived judgment exists in all its ori
'nal force. But as to a bone ﬁde purchaser of land from the debtor, it is otherwise.—
or if, while the ﬁve years mentioned in the statute are running, and before their as i
ration, the judgment debtor sell and convey his land, and the creditor permit the ve
years to expire without issuing execution, and then revive his judgment, it will not ope
rate on the land sold—Norton 0. Beaver et (11., 5 O. R., 178
The whole record is before the court, when acting on the scire facial-r, and if the ori
'nsl judgment is for one sum, and the scire fncis and jud ent of rcVivor is for sno
t er sum, thefjudgment ot revivor is erroneous.— Wolf n. eu1idlford, 4 O. R., 397.
It is said, i the defendant brings a writ of error, and the judgment is superseded for
ﬁve years by bond being ﬁled, an the judgment below is nﬂirmed, execution may be
taken out on the judgment, after the ex iration of the ﬁve years; because the writ of
error was a supersedeas, and the plaint' was compelled to wait until its determination.
But this rule, it was held, is not applicable, where the execution is not superseded by
a bond being filed under the statute. So, it is said, if the plaintifff has been tied up by

an injunction for ﬁyeflyesrs, he may afterwards sue out an execution, without revivin
the j udgment; but if ve years have elapsed from the time the injunction was disso 05
as well as from the date of the last execution, the judgment is dormant.—Lyt1e at at. e.
Cin. Manufacturing Co., 4 O. R., 459.
If an execution is issued, and sale made. and more than ﬁve years afterwards the sale
and valuation are set aside by the consent of parties, no other execution can afterwards
issue without revivin the 'ud ment; and the law, it seems, presumes that the sale was
set aside bemuse the ebt ad
it paid or released. Such jud ment, thereforee, unre
vived, is not entitled to money made on a junior judgment, in h 0. So, a senior judg
ment creditor, whose judgment is dormant, is not entitled to money made on a junior
judgment. It seems if execution is issued upon a dormant judgment, the court will,
on motion, set aside the execution, and award a restitution of the money—1d. lb.
If the defendant, in an action of debt upon a judgment, would avail himself of the
want of service of process and appearance in the ori inal action, he must crave oyer of
the record declared on and set it out; as matters of t at kind can only be proved by the
record—Evans ti. Incline, 6 O.R., 117.
It must appear, upon the face of a scire fecias, that time had elapsed since the judg
ment, for it to become dormant; Lessee qf Hough 1:. Norton et al., 9 O. ., 45; but it ll
not necessar that it should bespeciﬁcally averted that execution has not been issued for
a period of ffve years, if the scire facias sets forth the date of the judgment and the writ
bedsted, whereby it appears that more than five years have intervened—Weaver at al.
0. Reese, 6 . R., 418.
s
'
If, after a recovery in ejectment, the lessor of the plaintifff enter into a contract for the
sale of the land to the defendants, who are tenants in possession, he cannot subsequently
revive the judgment by scire facias, although payments on the contract are not made,
as stipulated. And, it is said, if, after jud ment, the plaintifff abandons the possession
of the premises, he has the fruit of his ju gment, and cannot afterwards revive it.—
Lcssee of Houin v. Norton et al.,9 O. R., 45.
A plaintifff may sue in debt, on a jud ment rendered in our own state courts, instead.
of issuing execution, although the ju gment is not dorriianl.-—Ileadly v. Roby, 6 O.
' arising subsequent to the rendition of the judgment, he or they
can alledge, to show why execution should not be awarded; and
the court may render such judgment, and award such execution,
as ought to be rendered or awarded in the premises.
105. Sscr. LXXXIX. That if either the plaintifff or defend

Either or both

parties dying
ant, or both, shall have died after ﬁnal judgment, and before sat after
judgment,

isfaction thereof, it shall and may be lawful for the plaintifff, or if
he shall have died, then for his real or personal representatives,
as the case may require, to cause the defendant, or if he shall
have died, then his representatives, real or personal, as the case

may require, to be made a party to such judgment, by writ or
writs of scire facias, to be issued, served, and returned in the
same manner that a summons may be issued, served, and return

and before sat
isfaction, their

personal repre
sentatives may
be made parties
and the judg
ment revived
by scire facius;

ed by law; and such judgment may be rendered, and execution
awarded in the premises, as might or ought to be given or
awarded against the representatives, real or personal, of a de
ceased party in other cases. (a
106. Secr- XC. That if the plaintifff shall die, after any ﬁnal —The like
when original
judgment rendered against him, and before satisfaction thereof, judgment was
a
mat the
it shall and may be lawful for the defendant, or if he shall have
died, then for his representatives, real or personal, as the case paintiﬁ'.
may require, to cause the representatives, real or personal, as
the case may require, of such deceased plaintifff, to be made a
party to such judgment, in the manner pointed out in the pre
ceding section; and the court may render the same judgment,
and,award the same process of execution, in the premises, as is
directed in that seetion.
What causes
107. S501. XCI. That at least twelve days before every to
be docketcd
court of common pleas, or supreme court, the clerks of the re

spective courts shall enter in a particular docket, all such causes,
(and those only) in which an issue is to be tried, or an inquiry
(a) As to making administrator de bonis non party tojudgrnent, when the executor

or administrator, party thereto, dies, is removed, or resigns, see 139th section of this
chapter. Under the section to which this note is appended, it has been held, that n
nersl judgment, against a decedent in his life time, cannot be revived against the
giro alone, without showing that there is no personal representative in use, and that
the heir has received assets by descent from the newton—Douglass v. lVaddle el al., 8
O. R., 209. See also, ante p. 66‘), note.
How far the following decisions are applicable to the laws now in force, the reader
must determine.
If, after the death of a judgment debtor, thejudgment creditor revives his judgment,
he must proceed against the personal representative, if there be one, who has not settled
with the court as directed by the statute. But if there be no personal representative, or
the one appointed has made his ﬁn‘al settlement with the court, then the judgment
creditor ma proceed against the heirs or devisees; and these latter will beliable to the
extent of t eassets descended. It is thereforee necessary to show, in the .rcirefacias
against the devisees or heirs, that there is no personal representative, or that the one
appointed has made his ﬁnal settlement with the court; and it ought further to a pear,
that assets have descended or been devised, whereby the heir or devisee can, wit

pro

pjiety, be charged with the payment of thejudgment.—D0uglau v. ll’addle ct al., 8 O.
., 209.

See ante p. 373, 382.

It was necessary, under the statute of February 4, 1824, (Chase, 1297, sec. 27,) to de
scribe, speciﬁcally, in the scirefncias, the lands sought to be charged, by whom held,
and all the material facts essential to the right to proceed a ainst the particular estate
and land.——Id. 1121; Union Bank v. Admr‘c qf Meigs et al., 5 ). R., 312. It should also
he alleged in the scire facias that the judgment is in force and unsatisﬁed; Me Vickar v.
Ludlow's heirs, 2 O. R., 246; and that the personal estate isexhausted; and, in eneral,
contain every thing necessary to constitute a good declaration—Id. 16.; ﬁ’ood v.
Poundsford, 4 O. R., 397; Union Bank v. Adm'rs qf Meiga It 111., 5 O. R.,319.


twelve days be
fore court, and
how.

of damage is to be made, or a special verdict, or a case agreed,
demurrer, or other matter of law, is to be argued, in the same

order as they stand in the course of proceeding; setting, as near
Acertain num- as may be, an equal number of causes to each day of the time

trigezgedset
y'

allowed by law for the sitting of such court, if, in his opinion,
so many days will be required, in trying the causes ready for

What day in trial, and issue subpoenas for witnesses to attend on the days on

which the causes stand for trial.

And no cause shall be removed

mm, ,0 8,.

from its place on the docket; but all causes in which the inter

mtdvention of a jury is necessary, shall be tried in the order in

{Eda which they stand, unless the parties otherwise agree, or be con
tried.
tinued until next term.
When 0,, y of 108. Sscr. XCII. That the clerk of each of the courts of
docket to 8 this state, shall make out a copy of the trial docket for the use

Md" f°'°°‘m' of their respective courts, by the ﬁrst day of each term thereof.
Filing. 8w“ of 109. SECT- XCIII. That the declaration, pleadings, and other
papersln
papers, relative to every cause, shall be ﬁled together in the

cle'k‘mﬁce'

ofﬁce of the clerk of each court, and be by him carefully pre

Minumofpw

served.
lit). Si-zc'r. XCIV.

That for preventing errors in entering

ceedings _to be the Judgments, orders, and decrees of each court, the judges

aeﬁdand§‘8“ed thereof, before every adjournment, shall cause the minutes of
store adjourn.
.
~
.
.
ment. '
their proceedings tobe publicly read by their clerk, and cor
rected where necessary, (a) and the same shall be signed by the
(0) AS 1'0 ENTERING, SETTIAG
ENTERING THEM NUNC PRO TUNC.


Orders, judgments and decrees, should be entered, at length. upon the journal, with
the same technical precision as is required in the complete record, made up in vacation.—
Harvey et al. a. Brown et al., 1 O. R., 268.

Acts ofthe court, to be valid, must, in general, be entered on the journal; but acts of
the sheriff, in court, calling for no judicial action, (such as his acknowledgment ofa
deed in open court,) are suﬁiciently authenticated by the certiﬁcate of the clerk, under
the seal of the mum—Lessee o/ Goudy v. Skunk, 8 U. R., 415.
The journal or daily minutes of the court are not so far a component part of the re
cord, that error can be assigned upon them. Error can only be assigned upon the com
plete record made up in the book of records—Harvey at al, a. Brown et al., 10. it, 268.

But as an instrument of evidence, the journal is deemed one of the records of the
court. Therefore, where a statute required the report of certain commissioners to be
entered of record in the ofﬁce of the clerk of the court of common pleas, and the amount
of damages assessed by them to be paid, before roperty should be appropriated for a
bridge, and an action of trespass was brought, and) the defendant justiﬁed by producing,
as well thejournals of the court where alone the proceedings were entered, as also parol
proof of the contents ofthe report, the original report being lost:_ it was held, that the
journals of the court were the records of the court, and the testimony oﬂ'ered, compe
tent.—Yoimg v. Buckingham £101., 5 O. R. 485.
So, the orders, minutes and decrees ofthe court, entered on the journal, “in those
cases in which no ﬁnal record is made, or is required to be made," are, it seems, legal
evidence and matter of record, if the court was in the exercise of its legitimate power
and authority—State v. Dawson etal., 6 O. R., 251.
So, it is said, a judgment is effectual before the complete record is made—Young v.
Buckingham et al., 5 U. R., 485-489,
For some purposes, it is said, the term of a court is considered an entire day, and the
journal bf everyday, so long as the term continues, is open to the correction of the
court.—~Forbet I. Cmftn, 6 O. R., 34

So, a court of record may alter, amend, or set aside ajudgmeut, at any time during
the term in which it was rendered, while the proceedings are considered as being in pa
per. The form in which applications for this urpose should be made, must depend,
chieﬂy, on the rules and ractice ofthe mum—51¢ Vickar v. Ludlow’s heirs, 2 0. R., 216.
But a court cannot a ter or amend, in a substantial and material part,'ajudgment
regularly egtered at a previous term—Botkin et al. 1:. Commissioners of Piclmway Co.,
.,

I

.

In a suit In Bank, one of the judges, before the decision, informed the counsel of the president judge then sitting in court; which minutes, so signed,
shall be entered in a book and carefully preserved among the
records; and no proceedings, orders, judgments or decrees of
either of the said courts, shall be in force or valid until the same

be so read and signed.
.
111. Sizer. XU V. That the clerk of each court, shall enter Clerk to keep
an execution
in a docket book, to be kept by him for that purpose, a list of docket, and
all executions by him issued, the name of the person to whom have the same
delivered; what return is made thereon, in case the same be re

in court while
sitting.

turned, and the ﬁnal satisfaction of the judgment, when the same
is made. And the clerk shall keep the said docket in court while
Sitting.
plaintitl', extra judicially, that the declaration would be held insufﬁcient and leave to
amend would be refused, and that the judgment would be so entered as not to bar
another action. The counsel of the plaintifff was called from court by sickness in his
family, and it was found, after the adjournment of the court, that a generaljudgment
was entered.

At a subsequent term, leave to amend thejudgment was refused, 0n ac

count of want of power in the court to amend;-Green 1:. Dodge at al., 3 O. R , 486;
and relief in ohancer was also refused—Same 0. Same, 6 U. R., 80.

Wherejudgment is entered upon an oﬂicial bond for the penalty, “lo be discharged
upon "repayment" ofa speciﬁed sum then due, the court cannot, at a subsequent term,
strike out the above words in italic and insert in their place that “execution issue“ for
the sum equitably due.—Bolkin et al. v. Commissioner: 0 Pickaway Co., 1 O. R., 375.
The court may, however, at a subsequent term, amen a jud ment in mere matters
ofform.-—Id. lb. As, wherea clerk, in entering the names 0 the parties to ujudg
ment, trans osed them, so that the judgment was in favor of the delendsnt instead of
the plaintil . the court, at a subsequent term, ordered it to be corrected, and the proper
entry to be then made mmcpro tunc —~1-‘orbel v. C'oﬂin, 6 0 R., 274.
So, where there was prOCees against two; one not served; declaration against one,
and appearance and lea by_him; Judgment and verdict against both in the supreme
court: it was held, t at thejudgnieiit might be amended at a subsequent term, by stri
king out the name of the defendant not served.—11um1na v. McConncl, 2 O. R., 31.

While the proceedings remain in paper, (as where the cause has been appealed and is
pending in the supreme court,) the court of common pleas may, at a subsequent term,
order their clerk to so correctajudgment of nonsuit, from the memorandum made by
the presiding 111ng upon the court docket, that the nonsuit may not appear as a volun'
\ary one, but the act of the COUI’L-—Bradle o. Sneatli, 6 O. R., 490.
Clerical errors at the clerk, and none others, can be amended in criminal cases.—

Young 1:. Stale, 6 O. R., 435.
_'I‘he power of amending, at a subsequent term, must be distinguished from the power
ol setting aside judgments, Ste, For, the power of setting asidejudgments, ata subse
qpent term, for irregularity in entering them, is amused by courts.—Hu1itetal. 0.
column, 30. R., 15. Therefore, where no process was served u on one ofthe defen
dants to an action, but by_mistake_ the attorney, who a peered or the others, ﬁled a
plea for all, Wi_thout authority, and Judgment was rendered against the party not served
with process; it was held, that on his motion, at a subsequent term. thejudgment must
be set aside.— Culrlijield 12 Porter, 3 O. R., 518; McKee a. Bank of All. Pleasant, 7 O.

R, (Part 2,) 175.
The court ma , at a subsequentterm, rescind an order which was irregularly or im
properly enterc ; and in domg this, the exsrcise a discretion.—Fowble v. Ruyburg et
al. 4 U. R-, 45; Fowble t‘. fVaIker, 4 (1%., 64.
_ lint ifa party has a‘day in court at the time an order is made, and he makes no ob
JQCHOII, he cannot of right be afterwards heard, upon a motion to rescind—Feudale v.
Walker, ,4 O. R., 64.

The court cannot, at a subsequent term, enter an order mutcpro tune unless an or
der was actual]y made at a preceding term, and omitted to be entered -—.liotki'1i at al. v.
Commzssioners of Pickaway County, 1 0- R., 375; Ludlow‘s heir: v. Johmon el al., 3 O.
R., 553; Forbet a. C0 tn, 6_(). R., 33; Green {1. Dodge et al., 3 O. R., 486.

An order of court irecttng an administrator to sell real estate, made after the sale,
cannot be set up to sustain such sale—Lessee quudlow‘s heirs a. Park, 4 O. R., 5-,

Ludlow‘s heirs a. Johnson, 3 O. R., 553.
A court cannot, and will not enter a mug: pro time order, founded on parol proof of
ghastsgvas ordered to be done at a previous term—Ludlow’s heir: v. Johnson at al., 3 O.
.
.,
An order of the-court, authorizing an administrator to sell real estate, made while the
court had Jurisdiction, but not entered of record, cannot be rendered valid by a mmc

pro tum: order, made at a subsequent term, and after the jurisdiction and power of the
court terminated by the repeal of the statute, under whtch the previouq order of sale
was made-Id. 1b.

112. SECT. XCVI. That in all cases where a nonsuit (a) may
ﬁrsgméﬁm be directed by the court of common pleas, by reason of irrele
Eppeal.
y vancy of testimony, or by reason that the testimony adduced
does not support the case set forth in the declaration. and, also,
whenever the testimony shall be arrested from the jury, by rea
'son of which the plaintiff becomes nonsuit, the plaintifff shall have
the same right to appeal _as in other cases. And either party
In what cases shall also have the right to except to the opinion of the court,
338??”
‘° f on a motion to direct
a nonsuit, to. arrest the testimony
from the
pinion o _
.
.
the court may Jur '; and, also, in all cases of motions for a new trial, by reason

“Make”

of any supposed misdirection of the court to the jury, (b) or
by reason that such verdict may be supposed to be against law,

so that such case may be removed by writ of error. And when
a party to a suit, in any court of common pleas within this
state, alleges an exception to any order or judgment of such
court, it shall be the duty of the judges of such court, concur
,
ring in such order or judgment, if required by such party during
Exceptions to the term, to sign and seal a bill containing such exception or
2:31“ 'Legd and exceptions as heretofore, in order that such bill of exceptions
made ' part of may, if such party desire it, be made a part of the record in such
record.
When courts
may_ require

suit’ (0)

113. Sscr. XCVII.

That the supreme court and court of

common pleas, shall have power, in the trial of actions at law,

ﬁagfoglfsﬂﬁ on motion, and on ten days notice thereof, to require the par
writingsin evi- ties to produce books and writings in their possession or power,
deuce;
which contain evidence pertinent to the issue, in cases and un
der circumstances where they might be compelled to produce
the same by the ordinary rules of proceedino' in chancery; and
if the plaintifff shall fail to comply with SUCT] order to produce
books or writings, the courts, res ectively, on motion as afore

said, may give the like judgment for the defendant, as in case of
(0) Leave to enter a nonsuit will not be granted after a verdict—Taylor v. Alezander

a 121., 6 O. R., 144.
(b) The court cannot b'e'called upon to charge the jury u n abstract propositions,
but only uponthe law arising from the evidence. To refuse, owever, such instructions
a properly arise in the case, is erron—Lewis v. Stale, 4 0. R., 389.
(c) BILL or EXCEP'I‘IONS.——AB to a writ of error, see note to 1191b section.
The bill of exceptions is, in ractice and by law, to be signed and sealed only, not to
be prepared by thejudges; an the power of determining whether a bill of exceptions is
true or not, is vested in thejudgcs to whom it is resented for signature, who are only
bound to sign a true bill ofexceptioris.—Slate 0. odd at al., 4 O. R. 351.
A bill of exceptions cannot be tested by byestanders.—Dlurpliy v. tacos, 2 O. R., 255.
A bill of exceptions must be made a part of the record, or it will not be regarded by
the court, on writ of error. Therefore, if exceptions be made out and signed by the
Judges, and certiﬁed by the clerk to the supreme court as being the original bill of excep
tions on ﬁle, and the clerk attach it to the record, it will form no part of the rccord,and

will not be treated as a bill of sites dons—Acheson el. til. 1‘. H’estern Reserve Bank, 8
O. R., 117; Baldwin v. State, 6 O. ., 15.
I
If tht bill of exceptions is a naked statement offacls, and does not, in connection With

the reeord,show the materiality of the matter assigned as error, nor any injury sus
tained by the party, by reason of the decision of the court below, upon the matter as
signed, no foundaticn is laid for the reversal of thejudgment.——O.-bom v. State, 7 O. R.,
(Part 1,) 212-. Therefore, a mere abstract proposition, as applicable to any other case
as tlie_one in which it is stated, will not be noticed by the supreme court. The bill of
exceptions should point out, or it should otherwise ap ear from the record, that the par
t excepting islprejudiced by the decision—King v. ermey. 4 O. R , '79; McDougal v.
Inning, 4 O.

nonsuit; and if a defendant shall fail to comply with such order —Qonsequence
to produce books or writings, the courts, respectively, on motion oflailure to
comply.
as aforesaid, may give judgment against him by default.
114. Sac-r. XC VIII. That the supreme court and court of Courts may
common
P

leas shall res ectivel have ower to rant new trials gramnew‘m'i

in cases where there has been a trial by jury, for reasons for
which new trials have usually been granted in the courts of law;
and shall have power to administer all necessary oaths and aflir —Admiaister
mations, and to punish, by ﬁne or imprisonment, or both, at the oaths and put!
discretion of the said courts, all contempt of authority in an ish contempts.
cause or matter in hearing before the same: a) provided, that
not more than two new trials be granted to t e same party, in
the same cause.
115. Sacr. XCIX. That when, in‘ the supreme court, judg How to proceed
a new
ment upon a verdict in a civil action shall be entered, it shall be where
trial is applied
competent for either party, during the term, to give notice that to r in supreme
court.
(a) As to what is a contempt, and the mode of proceeding, see ante p. 211.
As To A NEW Titian—When on a motion for a new trial, the whole case is disclosed
to the court, and in its opinion the plaintiﬂ‘was entitled to a verdict which he obtained
and would again obtain‘, a new trial will not be granted; althou h the court, on the
trial, ruled a point oflaw incorrectly against the efendant, by wirich certain written
evidence was excluded from the jury—Laure of Hart a. Johnson, 6 0. R., 87; Leueeof
Earl v. Shoulder 6 O. R., 409.
It is no giround for a new trial that the court commented upon the evidence, in their
charge to t e jury—Laue: of Abrams a. Will, 6 O. R., 164.
_
In actions ofejectment, where the verdict is for the defendant, it is rarely set aside
for newly discovered evidence; Lessee of Glover's heir: v. Rujﬁn, 6 O. R., 255; and,
where it is against the defendant, a new trial, on account of the verdict being against
the weight oftlie evidence, will, in some cases, be granted, and will be ranted more
readily, than when the verdict is for the defendant.—Leuee of Mufilen :erg‘s heirs 1:.
Florence, 5 O. R., 245.
A verdict was founded upon presumptions and are] testimony, in regard to matters
of record, and the record or higher proof was pr uced, upon a motion tor a new trial,
and to show that the verdict was right.—~Lcute of Earl v. Shoulder, 6 O. R.. 409.
It is only when the verdict is palpany against the evidence, or the decided weight of
it, that courts are warranted in interfering to set it aside and grantin a new trial.
—Webb at al. v. Prolc. Ins. Co., 6 O. R., 456; Lessee of 4' ufilenberg‘: can a. Flor
ence, 5 O. R., 245.
The charge ofthe court upon which a new trial is asked, must have been material as
Selig a37enoneous.—Jordan el al. a. Jame: et al., 5 0. R., 88; Reed at al. v. McGrew, 5

A new trial will not be granted for a defect in pleading, unless the issues made up are
so imperfect that the court do not know for whom to give judgment.——Jm-don et al. v.
James at al., 50. R., 88-108.
A verdict will not beset aside with leave to plead, and a new trial granted, to let in
a mere twhnical defense, where substantial justlce has been done by the verdict.—Bush
at al. v. Critchﬁeld, 5 O. R., 109; Bales v. Cooper, 5 O. R., 115; nor where the verdict
is technically only against law; Hinton v. McNeil et al. 5 O. R., 509; nor because the
verdict is ainst equity, if it be conformable to the proof and the issue; Bales 1:. Cooper,
5 O R., 1%; nor upon the discovery ofan additional witness to a tact upon which evi
dence was given to the jury; nor to give a party an opportunity to impeach the wnncsses
of his adversary.—Recd et al. a. ﬂ'IcGrew, 50. R., 375.
_
If testimony was properly rejected, but for a wrong reason, it affords no ground for a
new trial.—Lessee of Ludlow‘s heirs v. Park, 4 O. R., 5.
_
When the motion is grounded upon the discovery of new and material evidence, the
newly discovered evidence must be disclosed, and the court will not inquire whether,
taking the newly discovered evidence in connection with that exhibited on the trial, a
jury might be induced to give a different verdict; but whether the legitimate effect of

such cvrdence would be to require a different verdict.—1d. lb.
When the court, upon the trial,err as to the law, and this circumstance does not affect
the ﬁnal decision of the cause, a new trial will not be granted—Coucier £1 01. v. Gra
Itam, 1 O. R., 330.
Ifa verdict is substantially just, the court will not, it seems, disturb it, because there
was no count in the declaration to meet the case made before the jury—Buck o. Wad
dlaet 01.,10. R., 357.

he will make an application to the judges for a new trial; which
notice shall be entered of record upon the minutes of the court,
and the reasons for the same ﬁled with the clerk; and it shall be

competent for the party giving the notice aforesaid, at any time
within twenty days, to apply to the supreme court, or any two
judges thereof, for a new trial in the said cause, and shall sub
mit the evidence in support thereof, with a copy of the reasons
which may have been ﬁled; which application, the said court, or
any two judges thereof, may grant or refuse, in their discretion.
116. SECT- C. That if the application shall be granted, the
When new tri
al granted bY court, or any two judges thereof, shall certify the same to the
supreme court
its effect, and' clerk of the court of the county where the action aforesaid shall
proceedings
have been tried; and the judgment shall thereby be vacated, and
thereon.
the cause stand for trial at the succeeding term; otherwise exe
cution or mandate shall issue, as in other cases: provided, that
in every case, the certiﬁcate of the court, or the judges thereof,

shall be ﬁled within ninety days from the rising of the court, and
not after.
'
Complete re
cords to be
made by clerk
in vacationnnd
signed at next
_

117. Saw. CI. That the clerk of each court shall, in vaca
tion, make a complete record of the writ, recognizance of bail,

pleadings, orders and judgments or decrees, in each cause ﬁnally
determined
at the preceding term, in a book, to be provided and
term.
kept for that purpose; which record shall be signed by the pres
ident or presiding judge of said court, at the next succeeding
term of said court. (a)
‘
Records not
118. Snc'r. CII. That in all cases where the judicial acts, or
brought up, to
bemade,exarn other proceedings, of the supreme court or court of common pleas,
ined andsigned in any county in this state, have not been regularly brought up
and recorded by the clerks thereof, it shall be the duty of the
supreme court or court of common pleas, as the case may be,
to cause the same to be made up and recorded, within such time
as the court may direct; and when so made up, the court shall
examine the said records, and, if found correct, the president

judge shall sign the same, as is provided in the preceding section.
Writs of error
119. S201. 0111. That ﬁnal judgments in the courts of com
to reverse th e

judgm‘ts of th 8 mon pleas, may be examined, and reversed or aﬂirmed, in the
common le- supreme court holden in the same county, upon a writ of error,
(a) The signature ofthe presiding judge adds no validity to a record; and the record
itself would e evidence, or an exem liﬁcalion might be sent abroad and used, without
such signature.—0sboru v. State, '7
R., (Part 1,) 212.
The original records ofa court are always evidence, when a copy duly certiﬁed would
be evidence—1d. lb.
Where a record book has been read to thejury, a party cannot claim that it be sent
with the jury to their room—Id. lb
When a brief minute is made ofajudgment on the journal, the clerk, in making up
the record, may ﬁll it up and make it complete, by inserting all that it properly cover
ed.——Leuee of ﬂIitchell et al. a. Eyster, 7 O. R., (Part 1.1257.
A party interested in judicial proceedings is not concluded by the record, as made u ,
where important facts, (such as an afﬁdavit upon which a foreign attachment issu ,)
azistln _among the garters on ﬁle, or entries upon the journal, (such as ajudgment,) are
0mm in the recor . The party who wishes to make use of them as instruments of
evrdence, may have the rccord corrected on motion —]11. Ib.
_

It seems the orders, minutes and decrees of the court of common pleas, in those cases

in which no ﬁnal record is made, or is required to be made, are legal evidence and mat
ter of record; if the court was in the exercise of its legitimate power and authority.—
Stats u- Dawson d 01., 6 O. R., 251.

(a) whereto shall be annexed and returned therewith, at a day Hoszsued;-—

and place therein mentioned, an authenticated transcript of the Egg“: '1": “im'
arecord
citation
and to
assignment
the adverse
of error,
party,and
or his
prayer
attorney,
for a signed
reversal,
bywith
the nexed,°_i{i
vice
clerk of the supreme court, the adverse party having at least
ten days notice.
120. Sac-r. (11V. That no writ of error shall operate as a Writ of error
supersedeas to any execution issued on any ﬁnal judgment of the
We?"
court of common pleas, unless the clerk, before signing Such as till biriide 0.
citation, shall take a bond from the applicant to the adverse give"
(a) As To wrurs or ERROR AND CERTIORARL—The supreme court will allow a writ of
error comm nobil, to revcrse its own judgments for error in fact; such as the rendition
ofa judgment in favor ofa deceased person—Dow: et al. v. Harper et al.,ti 0. R., 518.
The decision ofa motion for a new trial is the exercise of a legal discretion, nodal
though cases might arise when its exercise would, it is said, be so manifestly erroneous

Kiatserror would lie for such decision; yet it could seldom ocean—Hurley v. Slate, 6 O.
.' 99.
bpon a writ oferror, nothing will be examined but what is set forth in the transcript
of the record—Osborn a. State, '7 O. R., (Part 1,) 212.

See ante p. 676.

A writ of error may be prosecuted in the name of the casual ejector.—Rae v. Bunk
U. States. 3 O. R., 26.
To a writ of error to reverse ajudgment, a plea that a bill in chancery and decree
enjoining a portion of the judgment, operated as a release of errors, is bad on general
demurrer.—Gano v. IVltilc 21111., 3 O. R., 20
1f the defendant in error die, after an assignment of errors and joindcr, it is not ne
cessary to make his re resentatives parties. The court will proceed to judgment.—
Spnrlr v. Vangundy, 3 ). R., 307.
_
_
It'ajud ment is rendered in favor of the party entitled to it by law from the face of
the race , the supreme court, on error, will afﬁrm it, though the steps by which the
court below arrived to that conclusion may have been erroneous.-—Headinglon v. Nqﬂ',

70.R,(Partl,)229.

.

~

As a general rule, no one can complain of an error in a record or judgment, except
the person who has been injured thereby; Smith et al. v. Barber et al., 7 U. R , (Part 2,)
122; Reynolds et al. v. EI‘ra of Rogers, 5 O. R., 169; nor for a court giving a wrong
reason tor admitting proper evidence; lVesterham o. Clive, 5 O

R., 136; or for the

admission of proof ot allegations in the declaration, which under the issue, a party was
not bound to prove; Reynolds at al. v. Ez'ra of Rogers, 5

. R , 169; nor for erroneous

ly deciding a matter of fact submitted to them by consent of parties; Id. 1b.; nor for
erroneously statin to thejury an abstract proposition, not applicable to the cause.—
Reed 21 al. 0. Mc rew, 5 U. R., 375. The plaintiﬂ' in error cannot takcladvnntage of
errors committed by himselﬂ—Reynoldc el al. a. Er'rs of Rogers, 5 O. R., 169.
So, where error has intervened for the beneﬁt of a party, (as where a verdict against

the defendant is for one sum, and judgment for a. less sum, without remittitur,) he can
not, in general, have the judgment reversed upon writ of erron—Slcrn'tt v. Creed, 2 O.
rior
areerror,
according
to the
of the common
and the
where
the proceedings
are
A court
writ of
it is said,
is course
the appropriate
rcmod llaw;
, where
proceedings
of an infe
of a diﬂ'erent character,a certiorari seems to be_ the only appropriate remedy. In either
case, there must, in general. be a ﬁnal order orjudgmcnt oi the interior tribunal, before
the writ can be issued—Ewing et al, v. Hollis/er, ‘7 O. R., (Part 2,) 138; qulpoIe v.

Ink, 0 o. R;, m.

,

Motions, to rescind orders previously made, or to set aside a levy upon an execution,
and, it is said, motions to set aside nonsuits or defaults, tor a new trial, to amend
pleadin s, &c.,granted or overruled by the court of common pleas, will not be dis
turbed
the supreme court, when presented for revrsal upon a certiorari, unless the
court be ow, in the exercise of their discretion upon them, violated some principle of
law, or unless there was manifest abuse of discretion—Army v. Ruﬂin, 4 O. R., 420;

Bliss v. Enslow, 3 0. R., 269; Fowble r. IVallrer, 4 O. R., 64.

_

A writ of certiorari lies from the supreme court direct to the commissioners of the
county, and, it seems, to other inferior jurisdictions and tribunals; but Will not be al
lowed, where the court ofcommon pleas have power to not, unless the case be attended
with some extraordinary circumstancea.—Burrow| a. Vanderrier rt 01 , 3 0. R., 383;
see constitution, nntc p. ‘29.
Proceedings in the court of common pleas for the sale of decedent‘s lands, by his per
sonal representatives, may be reviewed in the supreme court on certiorari.—Ewing et al.

v. Hollis/er, 7 O. R., (Part 2,) 138,

‘_

_

A judgment in attachment before a justice of the peace may be set aside on certio
rari, upon assignment of the fact, and proof that the defendant was a resident of the
county when the writ issued—Hartslmm u. VVilsmi, 2 O. R .. 27.
The bond. and
its condition,
&c.

Error to be
brought within
ﬁve years from
rendition of
judgment.
saying. 6w.

party, with one or more good and sufﬁcient securities, in double
theamount of the judgment obtained, conditioned for the pay
ment of the condemnation money and costs, in case the judg—
ment of the common pleas should be afﬁrmed, in whole or in
part; (a) and writs of error shall not be brought, but within ﬁve
years alter rendering the judgment complained of; or, in case
the person entitled to such writ of error be an infant, femme co
vert, non compos mentis, or imprisoned, then within ﬁve years
as aforesaid, exclusive of the time of such disability. (1))
SECT- UV.

When judg
ment reversed,
the supreme

court may ren
der judgment.
or remand
cause to com
mon pleas.
Supreme court
not to issue ex

ecution. but
shall issue
mandate to
common pleas.

[anln

(0)

121. Secr- CVI. That when a judgment shall be reversed
in the supreme court, in whole or in part, such court may pro
ceed either to render such judgment as the court of common
pleas should have rendered, or remand the cause to the court of

common pleas, by writ of procedendo, for such judgment; and
the supreme court shall not issue execution in causes that are
removed before them by writ of error, on which they pro
nounced judgment as aforesaid, or on appeals, but shall send a
special mandate to the court of common pleas to award execu
tion thereupon; and such court is hereby authorized and re
quired to proceed in such cases, in the same manner as if such
judgment had been rendered therein. ((1) And, on motion and
(a) If the condition of the bond be “that the plaintiﬁ's shall prosecute their writ of
error to effect. and abide thejudgment of the court thereon." it is, in substance and ef
fect. as if it contained the terms mentioned in the statute—Reynolds at al. v. Rogers‘
executors, 5 O. R.. 169; Gardener v. TVoodyear. l O. R.. 170.
A party may prosecute his writ oferror effectually. without superseding thejudg
ment he would reverse. and rely upon the jud ment of restitution on the-writ ofcrror.
and the process upon it. to restore him to w at he may have lost or may lose: or. he
may cause the writ of error to operate as a supersedeas by giving the bond required.
The statute requires no supersedeas to issue ifa bond is ﬁlcd; though. it is said. a writ
might issue. upon the application of the plaintiﬂ in error. It is not. thereforee, necessa
ry. in a declaration upon a writ oferror bond, to aver that a writ of supersedeas was
taken out.
suit against tlie_sureties. upon the bond. may be praceeded in. without
ﬁrst proceeding against the principal upon the original judgment.—1\‘ey1iolds ct al.v.
R0 ers' eleculors, 5 O. R.. 169.
fa writoferror is sued out. to revise proceedings had upon a scire fucitts to revive a
dormant judament. and bond is given. and the revival conﬁrmed, the obliges-a to such
band are lish e to the extent of the revived judgment.-——1d. lb.
1f the bond recites that a supersedmis issued. it is conclusive upon the obligors. and
cannot be denied in an action upon the bond—Id. lb.
A writ of error and bond ﬁled. do not vacate a levy on real estate. previously made.
R Question—Whether a levy upon chattels is vacated t—Amold v. Fullcr‘s heirs. l O.

., 458.
_ (b) If any one of the parties who sue a_ writ of error is within the proviso and disa
bility. (for instance. an infant.) the case is saved for all the parties who prosecute the
writ of error.—1Vi1kim at al. v. Phillips. 3 O. R.. 49.
(c) This section'seems to be superseded by the 141st section of this chapter.
be found in a note appended to that section.

It will

(:1) It seems an execution. issued from the court of common less u on a judgment
of the supreme court. is void. unless a mandate was also issued ram 1 ic supreme court
therefore.—Earl's Lessee a. Shoulder, 6 O. R.. 409.
A general order of the supreme court. that “all causes removed into the court from the
common pleas. in which tic court have, during the term. enteredjudgment. or pro
nounced decree._be certiﬁed to the court of common pleas. with a special mandate to
can the same into execution." is valid; and in such case. it would be correct for the
cler . _m making up the complete record. to attach to each case. from this general e-ntrv.
a particular order to remand to the court of common pleas for execution. (kc—Lessee
qf Earl u. Shoulder. 6 O. R.. 409'.

The law. requiring a mandate or order. “to award execution." is satisﬁed by a man
date or order. (attached to a transcript of the judgment.) “to any the judgment into good cause shown, they may suspend any execution made re- Execution up

turnable before them by order of the supreme court, in the same “"118 mandm"
manner as if such execution had been issued from their own
court: provided, that such power shall not extend further than
to stay proceedings till the matter can be further heard by the
supreme court.

1252. SECT. CVII. That when a judgment is reversed, the Costs,howtax
plaintitl' in error shall recover his costs; when a judgment is 9d“ 9"“
atiirmed, the defendant in error shall recover his costs; when a

judgment is arrested, the party prevailing shall recover his costs;
and when a judgment is reversed in part, and afﬁrmed in part,
costs shall be equally divided between the parties.
123. Seer. CVIll.

That in civil cases an appeal shall be Appeals to en

allowed, of course, to the supreme court, from any judgment or [gawﬁg'uil‘f
decree rendered in the court of common pleas, in which such lowed.
court had original jurisdiction. (a)
It is the better practice for the clerk of the court of common pleas, in enterin

the

memorandum ofmandates from the supreme court on the journal of the common p can.
to make a separate entry in each case, stating, brieﬂy, the title of the case, date and
amount
of the ‘adginent
andexecution
mandate, issue
and so
an order
to issue
thereon;
still,a gencruljorder,
“that
onjoin
all the
mandates
or execution
procedendos
sent
down from the supreme court, at their last term, to this court, on application of the
parties,“ will be satﬁcient.—-Id. lb.

When the judgment of reversal contains evidence of the precise thing to be restored,
and does not depend upon evidence dehors the record, the writ of restitution ma

be

awarded. But execution cannot be awarded on the 'udgment of restitution, i the
thing to be restored is uncertain: in scire facias must be irst issued—Cowden v. Huiford
e! 01., 4 O. R., 374.
(a) As 'ro Tm: RIGHT or APPEAL, 6w.—-“’I'he right of appeal cannot be extended be
yond the plain and obvious import of the statute; and the terms made use of clearl
show, that the provision applies only to suits in which there are plaintiﬂ's and defen ants, and in which pleadings are usually ﬁled and issues joined, according to the course
of the common law." Therefore no a peal lies from the decision of the court of com
mon pleas on an application to redeem and sold for taxes; though in such case the su‘
premc court might examine such proceedings on certiorari, an , so farm the merits
wereIexhibited in the record, revise the decision of the court below—Street v. Francis,

3 0. ., 271.
A compliance with the requisitions of the statute in re rd to an appeal to the su
preme court, is, in general, essential to the urtsdiction oft at court; Bradley 0. Sneallt,
6 0.11., 490; Bliss a. Long, 50. R., 276;
i'Lmn v. Helena”, 2 0. R., 253; and ifit take
jurisdiction under an reemeut of the arties, waiving these requisitions, it sets, it is
said, asarbitrators, on not as a judicia court—.Bradley a. Sneallt, 6 O. R., 490.
An appeal does not lie from a nonsuit, unless it is shown from the entries of the court
of common pleas that the nonsuit was ordered by, or proceeded from the action of the
court; for, it the voluntary act of the party, he cannotappeal from it.—Brodley a. Sneath,

6 O. H., 490 In replevin, however, where the plaintifff is in fact the_defendant, and
cannot, when nonsuited, afterwards recommence his action, he may, it seems, appeal
from a voluntary judgment ot'nonsuit.—-Reed a. Ca nter, 2 O. R.., 9. ‘
Where an up
1 was taken from what appeared to a voluntary nonsuit, the supreme
court continue the cause, that application might be made to the court below to correct
the judgment, from the memorandams made by the resident judge upon the court
docket, so that it would appear that the nonsuit was t c act of the courL—Bradley v.
Snmth, 6 O. R., 490.


As to the statute in relation to an appeal from a nonsuit, sec 112th section of this
ehaApnter.
action of debt was brought upon an administrator‘s bond; the cause submitted to
the court upon an agreed case; reterred by the court tola special commissioner; excg‘
tions ﬁled to the report; the exceptions overruled, and judgment for the plaintiﬂ'.
n
appeal to the supreme court, they held, that neither the submission, _nor the report were
vacated by the appeal; and that the report only was open to exceptions.-— Treasurer of
Champaign county 1:. Norton, 1 U. R., 270.
_
_
_
If an appeal bond be ﬁled, and before the transcriptpr papers in the case are ﬁled in
the supreme court, the a pellant dies, the verdict and judgment below are vacated, and
the cause is pending in the supreme court. If the suit in such case be slander, it abntes
—Loug v. Hitchcock 3 O. R., 274.
.
_
So far as respects the right of appeal, a mun: pro tum: judgment must be considered as

Noticeofintention to appeal,
to be entered in
term.

[Guam

124. Sam“. CIX. That the party desirous of appealing his
cause to the supreme court, shall, at the term of the court of
common pleas in which judgment or decree was rendered, enter
on the records of the court, notice of such intention; and, with

in thirty days after the rising of such court, shall enter into bond
to the adverse party, with one or more good and sufﬁcient secu
rities, to be approved of by the clerk of such court, in double the
Condition of amount of the judgment or decree rendered, conditioned for the
the bond.
payment of the full amount of the condemnation money, in the
supreme court, and costs, in case a judgment or decree should
be entered therein in favor of the appellee. And, in case notice
When notice of
appeal given, of appeal is entered as aforesaid, the court may, on motion of the
court may stay party entering such notice, on laying him under such reasonable
execution thir restrictions and terms as they may judge necessary, for the secu
ty days.
rity of the adverse party, direct execution to be stayed for thirty
Executors and days: provided, that in no case shall administrators or executors
administrators be compelled to give bond and security in order to perfect an
may appeal
without giving appeal, as is above provided; and in such cases, the clerk, if not
otherwise directed, shall, at the expiration of thirty days from
bond.
the rising of the court, make out a transcript, which, together
with the papers and pleadings ﬁled in the cause, he shall trans
mit to the clerk of the supreme court, according to the provis
ions of this act, in other cases of appeal. (a)
Bond to be giv
en in thirty
days,

a judgment of the term when actually entered.—anor1h‘.r adm‘rs 1'. Flint, cited 3 O.
R., 576.
Where an a peal is quashed, on account of bond not being ﬁled at the proper time,
no judgment or costs will be rendered, as the cause was not within thejurisdiction of
the court.— Wilson v. Holemon, 2 O. R., 253_
Where an appeal at low is quashed for a defect in the appeal bond,occasioned b r the
mistake or oversight of the clerk, a court of chanciry will order a new trial, upon s ow
ing probable rounds that the appellant is entitl ton judgment at law. Such new
trial may be ad in the supreme court, the case in chancery, asking for a new trial, he
in there pending—Oliver et al. 1:. Pray, 4 O' R.. 175.
here are some cases, it is said, in which one of the several co-defendants may appeal
the cause separately, without affecting the others_ This may be done, where the action
' in its nature is joint and several.-—As in an action of tree ss against two, and one is
found guilty and the othera uitted. The part convict I has a right to appeal without
his co-defendant, and if the p aintiﬂ'desires to cop both parties in court, he can do it
by appealing himself. But when the action is joint, one defendant or one plaintifffcan,
without the consent of the party joined with him in the action, a pen] the whole cause,

as to all the parties, by givrng the notice and the bond require by law.—Emerick o.
Armstrong et al., 1 O. R,, 513.
The parties in a cause settled the subject in controversy, except as to the costs, and ,
by written agreement. referred the question of costs to the court of common pleas, who

decided it.
hereupon, one of the parties appealed to the supreme court. The supreme
court, Without examination, rendered a decree conformable to the decision of the court
of common pleas, saying, that they never investigate the ri hts of parties settled by an
um ire selected by themselves, except when there has been ﬁaud or imposition—Id lb.
he supreme court have no power to dischar e the surety in the appeal bond, so that
he may be used as a Witness.--Slansberry v. liligtlea, 8 0. R., 546.
(a) As to the construction of the above proviso, see 138th section of this chapter.—See
also ante p. 384.
As TO Ta}: APPEAL Bosn—As to exceptions to the appeal bond, see 140th section of
this chapter. An appeal bond is valid, and will not be quashed, though an attorney in
the cause is one ofthe sureties. Such attorney, however, is punishable for violating the
rules of the court.- Wallace 1'. Scales, 6 O. R., 428.

If the bond is given after verdict and before judgment, the appeal will be quashed.—
Ithaon v. Holman, 2 O. R., 253.
[t is proper for the clerk to indorse on the bond the time it was ﬁled—Bradley o.
Sneatli, 6 O, R., 490.
An executor or administrator. appointed in another state, who sues here, and has

not iven
bondt‘.here,
as such,
at
1 without a ivin8 an app ea] bond, as in othe '
caseg—
Work
Manic
at al., cannot
6 O. R.,pggg.

125. Seer. GX. That in all cases where the party against Lien on real es
late 1101. affect
whom a judgment is rendered, in the court of common pleas, ed
by appeal.
appeals his cause to the supreme court, the lieu of the opposite
party on the real estate of said appellant, created by said judg
ment, shall not be by said appeal removed or vacated; but the
real estate of said appellant shall be bound in the same manner
as if said appeal had not been taken, until the ﬁnal determination
of the cause in the supreme court.
126. Seer. CXI. That if the plaintifff appealing, shall not Costs in su
preme court on
recover a greater sum in the supreme court, than in the court of appeals,in
what
cases
to he id
common pleas, exclusive of costs and interest which may have
by plainti ;
accrued since the rendition of the judgment in the court of com
mon pleas, he shall pay all costs that may have accrued in the
supreme court in such case; (a) and if the defendant in any per~ ——By defendant
sonal action shall remove the same by appeal to the supreme
court, and the plaintifff shall recover, in such cause, a judgment
for the same sum, or a larger sum than was recovered in the
court of common pleas, exclusive of costs, the supreme court
shall render judgment for the sum so recovered,with costs of suit.
127. Sacr. ()XII. That when an appeal shall be granted, Judgment of
leas
and bond and security given thereon as aforesaid, the judgment common
suspend
by
or decree rendered in such case, in the court of common pleas, alJPtml;
shall thereby be suspended; and the clerk of such court shall
when
forthwith make out an authenticated transcript of the docket or —And
transcript of
journal entries, and of the ﬁnal judgment or decree made and entries and the
rendered in the case; which transcript, together with the origi ori insl pers,
e de ivered
nal papers and pleadings ﬁled in the cause, he shall deliver into to
to clerk of su
preme
court;
the oﬁice of the clerk of the supreme court, on or before the
ﬁrst day of the term thereof, next after perfecting the appeal in
record
manner aforesaid: (12) provided, that either party may require a ——-But
may be made in
full record to be made of such cause, in the court of common
pleas; and the same, when so required, shall be made at his own

proper costs and charges.
128. Sscr. CXIII. That the clerk of the supreme court shall,
prior to the ﬁling with him of the transcripts, as hereinbefore
provided, on the application of either party to an appeal, issue
subpoenas for witnesses, returnable to the ﬁrst day of the next
term of said court, on satisfactory proof being made before him
that such appeal has been taken.
An executor or administrator can, by appealing, take up thecasc to the supreme court
as to his co-defendants, or as to co-plalntlﬂ's, Without bond being given—Emericlr v.
Armstronga al., 1 O. R., 513.

Where, before the enactment ol'the 140th section of this chapter, an appeal bond was
taken in double the amount of thejudgment, had not the costs been improperly taxed,
and the appellee moved to dismiss the appeal. the supreme court continued the cause,
that the costs might be retaxed in the court below; and at the next term, u n the ap
pellant exhibitin the record. showing that the error had been corrected, t e supreme

court overruled t to motion to dismiss the appeal.—Bliu 1:. Long, 50. R., 276, 337.
(a) In such case, two judgments are entered; one for the laintiﬂ'. for the amount of
his claim, and the costs adjudged to him in the common p eas~ and the other against
him, for the costs on the appeal, taxed in the supreme court.— aters 11. Lemon 2! al.,
3 O. R., 7 .
(b) The clerk of the court of common plans should send up, with the papers, either
the original appeal bond, orn copy ofit.— Bradley 0. Snealh, 6 U. R., 490.

common

lens,

at costs 0 _par

ty asking it.
Clerk of su
preme court
may issue sub
pcanas before
transcript ﬁled.

Appeals to be
129. Sac'r. CXIV. That when any cause is removed by ap
P'ied °" le?’ peal into the supreme court, the appeal shall be tried on the

1.22.22“:epigil: pleadings made up in the court of common pleas, unless for good
unless, “4
cause shown, and on payment of costs, the said court should
permit either or both parties to alter their pleadings; in which
-Costs,&/c.,0n case, such court shall lay the parties under such equitable rules
gemmems' and restrictions as they may conceive necessary, to prevent
'
dela .
In wha, we,
1:270. Sac-r. CXV. That when judgment shall be rendered by
the su reme the supreme court, in any case brought before them by writ of

gigg'lgeﬁgﬁj, error, in which errors in law may have been assngned; or, in any
' ions to writing. case brought before them by appeal, or by any writ issued from
ﬁgeﬁlvsigezhe said supreme court, in which there may have been an issue in
papers of the

law, or demurrer to evidence, or in which there may have been

cause"

a verdict and motion in arrest of judgment, or for a new trial,
founded on a supposed misdirection of the court to the jury, or
on the improper admission of testimony, or the irrelevancy of
testimony, or upon any allegation that such verdict is against
law, it shall be the duty of the court to reduce the reasons of
their judgment to writing, and cause the same to be ﬁled with
the other papers of such cause. And if it should so happen that
the judges of said court should differ in opinion, then the dissent
ing judge shall reduce to writing the reasons of his opinion; and
the same shall be ﬁled as aforesaid.
131. SECT. CXVI. That where there are, in a declaration,

When some

0mm.“ in 486' several counts, any one or more of which shall be defective, and

£3222,ng the residue good, and entire damages are given, the verdict shall
eﬂbcwfverdicl- be good and effectual in law, provided the plaintifff, before the
jury retire from the bar, apply to the court to instruct the jury
to disregard such defective count or counts. ((1)
Aﬂoomimion,

132. SECT. CXVlI.

That if, in detinue, the verdict shall omit

,lw-JP '"dim price or value, the court may, at any time, award a writ of in
m deunue'
quiry to ascertain the same. If, on an issue concerning several
things in one count, in detinue, no verdict be found for part of
them, it shall not be error; but the plaintifff shall be barred of
his title 'to the things omitted.
A quorum of

133. SECT. CXVIII.

That in case a quorum of the supreme

811° Judges “‘1' court or court of common pleas, shall fail to attend at the time
in

to attend,


ju ge‘onheriﬂ; and place appomted for holding their respective courts, the judge

munch, 6w"

attending, (or if no judge be present, then the sheriff or coroner,

wifdjoum

as the case may be,) shall have power to adjourn the court from

day to day, until a quorum be convened; or, if no quorum shall
Eﬁ'ectoncuuses be present within two days after the ﬁrst day of the term, then,
:zmnilf‘ﬁ‘c‘gu‘ and in such case, all suits, plaints, process and pleadings, of
use,
whatever nature, commenced or depending in the said court,
shall stand continued, of course, to the next term to be holden

in said county b i the said court.
When venue
134. SECT- CliIX. That in all cases in which it shall be made
2;” be Chang' to appear to the court, that a fair and impartial trial cannot be
_ (a) When some counts are defective, and a general verdict, the court may render
Judgment on the good counts, dun 
had in the county where the suit is pending, the court may direct
the venue to be changed to some adjoining county.
135. Seer. CXX. That the “act to organize the judicial Acts repealed:
courts and regulate their practice,” passed February the eigh Chase, 1263.
teenth, in the year eighteen hundred and twenty four; and the
act amending the last named act, passed February third, eighteen Chase, 1527.
hundred and twenty six; and the act entitled “an act to provide
more efl'eetually for the taking of depositions, and to dispense
with the making of full records of judgments in certain cases,”
passed February twentieth, eighteen hundred and twenty eight, Chase. 1597
be and the same are hereby repealed: provided, that all rights
acquired, and duties or obligations incurred, under and by virtue
of the above mentioned acts, or either of them, shall be saved,

and remain as available as if the said acts had not been repealed;
and all actions, suits, causes or matters pending at the time this
act shall take effect, may be prosecuted and defended, and car
ried into ﬁnal judgment and execution, under the provisions of
this act. (a)
This act to take effect and be in force from and after the ﬁrst
day of June next.

Saving, 6w

An act to amend the act to regulate the practice of the judicial courts.
[Passed and look eject, February 21, 1834.

136. SECT- I.

32 v. 81111., 19.]

Be it enacted by the General Assembly oft/10 Pleadings, evi

State of Ohio, That in any action founded upon any specialty,
or other written contract, for the payment of money, or the
delivery of property, the defendant, by special plea, or by notice
attached to, and ﬁled with the plea of the general issue, may al—
lege the want or failure of the consideration, in the whole, or in
any part thereof, of such specialty or other written contract, as
aforesaid. And if any specialty or other written contract for
the payment of money, or delivery of property, is alleged by
either party, in any other stage of the proceedings, the other
party may aver in answer, and prove on the trial, the Want or

failure, in the whole or in part, of the consideration of such spe
cialty, or other written contract, as aforesaid. Arid whenever
such specialty, or other written contract, for the payment of
money, or delivery of property, shall be given in evidence in any
court, by either party, without being pleaded, the other party
may prove the want or failure of the consideration, in the whole
or in part, of such specialty, or other written contract, as afore

said: provided, that nothing in this section contained shall be
construed to affect or impair the right of any bona ﬁde assignee
or assignees of any specialty, or other contract in writing, made
(0) Therefore, suits commenced before the takin effect of this not,und revived under
the 84th section of this chapter. must be determine as to costs, according to the provis
ions of this act, and not according to the provisions of pre-existing laws—Farrier v.
Cairns, 5 O. R.. 45.

dence, &c., of
want or failure
ofconsideration
of written con
tract or special
ty given for
payment of mo
ney or delivery
of property.

negotiable by the law of this state, when such assignment was
made before such instrument became due. (a)
An act to amend the act, entitled “An act to regulate the practice of the
judicial courts.“
[Passed and look eject, illarch 9, 1835.

\Vhenand how
administrator
de bonis non
may be made
party plaintifff
or defendant to
t! suit.

33 1). Sum, 54.]

137. SE01". 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the
State of Ohio, That when any executor or administrator shall
have brought any suit in law or chancery, or shall have been
made plaintifff or defendant in any such suit, brought or depend
ing, and shall, during the pendency of such suit, die, resign, or
be removed from said trust by the court of common pleas of the
proper county, such suit, either in law or Chancery, shall not
thereby abate; but the administrator de bonis non may be made
party, plaintifff or defendant, as the case may require, in the same

Ante p. 682.
Executor or ad
ministrator not
appointed in
t IS state, to
give appeal
hond upon an
nppea .

When and how
administrator
de bonis non
may be made
party plaintifff
or defendant to
a judgment.

Ante p. 673.

Exceptions to
appeal bond,
when to com

mon pleas or
supreme court
to be taken.

If bond itself
defective, new
one may be ﬁled

manner and under the same rules and regulations, as is provided
by law for making an executor or administrator party to a suit,
where the original plaintifff or defendant shall have died during
the pendency of such suit. (11)
138. SECT. II. That the proviso to the one hundred and ninth
section of the act, entitled “an act to regulate the practice of
the judicial courts,” passed March 8, 1831, and to which act this
is amendatory, shall not be construed to extend to executors or
administrators not appomted by the authority of this state; but
such executors or administrators shall be required to give bond
to prosecute an appeal to effect, in the same manner as is re
quired of parties not executors or administrators. (b)
139. Sacr. III. That if any executor or administrator for or
against whom a judgment may have been rendered, shall die,
resign, or be removed from his trust by the court of common
pleas, before the judgment shall have been satisﬁed, the admin
istrator de bonis non may be made party, plaintifff or defendant
to said judgment, as the case may require, in the same manner
as is provided in the eighty ninth and ninetieth sections of the
act to which this is an amendment, when the original plaintifff
or defendent shall die, after ﬁnal judgment, and before satis
faction.
140. Seer. l\’. That no exception to an appeal bond, in any
case removed by appeal from a justice of the peace, to the court
of common pleas, or from the court of common pleas to the su
preme court, shall be taken, unless the same be done at the term
of the court in which the appeal is entered; and the failure to
take such exceptions at that time, shall be considered as a waiver
of all exceptions.

And if, upon exception taken, the bond shall

be found to be defective, either in form or in any other respect,
the appellate court may order a new bond to be given, with
(a) Before this statute, a party could not. at law, set up the want ofconsideration in
dctence against a bond, or other sealed instrument; Reynolds et al. v. Ragux‘ 02‘", 5
O. R , 1b9; nor the partial ﬁtilure of he consideration ofa promissory note. not under
seal.—-Harlan ll. Reed, 3 0. R.,285; t air 1:. Collins, 6 O. R}, 126
(1:) See. also, nmep, 381.
security, to the satisfaction of the clerk of said court; and if such
new bond be given according to said order, said appeal shall not
be dismissed, but the appellate court shall proceed to hear and
determine the cause in the same manner as if the bond, originally
given, had been suﬂ‘icient: provided, that nothing in this section
contained shall be construed to extend to bonds not executed
within the time limited by law for giving appeal bonds. (a)
141. Sizer. V. That no process, return, pleading or other

&.c.,
proceeding in civil cases, shall be abated, arrested, quashed or pleading,
not affected by

reversed, for mere want of form, but judgment shall be given want of form,
&c.,_exoept on
according to the right and justice of the case, as the matter in special
demur
law shall appear to the court, without regarding any defects or rer;
want of form in such process, return, pleading, or other proceed
ings, except such only as the party shall set down and express
with his demurrer as the cause thereof; (b) and the court, either
before or after demurrer ﬁled, and at any time before writ of -When amend
allowed
error brought, may allow either party to amend, upon such terms ments
in common
as may be just and right; and the supreme court may, on like pleas and su
terms, permit either party to a judgment, or other proceedings preme court.
brought before it by writ of error or certiorari, to amend such
formal defect, in the same manner as the court where the judg
ment was originally rendered, might have done, before writ of
error brought. (0)
(a; This provision, being remedial, should be construed liberally. It embraces cases
ending on appeal at the time ol'its passage. When a bond is given for less than dou
ble the amount ol'the damages and costs, the defect may be corrected under this provis
ion ol' the statute—Hays v. Armstrong, '7 O. R., (Part 1,) 247.

As to decisions in rela

tion to appeals, see ante p. 681, 682, 6813, notes.
Previous to the enactment of this section, it was held, and perhaps under this section

it may again be held, that the exce ition might be taken by the nppellce, even after trial
and verdict in the supreme court, t at no a ipeal bond was taken; for without it, it was
said, thejurlsdiction of the supreme court di not attach—Bradley v. Sneath, 6 O. R.,490.
(b) As TO DEMURRERS.—\Vllel'e suit is brought against one of three joint contractors,

as upon a contract mode by the defendant alone, taking no notice of the other parties,
exception cannot be taken thereto by eneral demurrer; but it may be done, it is said,
by plea in nbatenient.—~]\10Artliur a. ﬁdd, 5 O. R., 514.
Upon demurrer. judgment is given against the party that commits the ﬁrst fault in
pleading.—Headiuglon v. Nrﬂ‘, 70. R., (Part 1,) 2‘29, Slate v. Caﬂ'er, 6 U. R., 150.

A plea contradicts s matter stated in the record of the case. A demurrer lo the plea
does not, it scems, admit what is contradicicd by the record, but only admits what is
properly and well pleaded—Turk v. Slate, 7 U, R., (Port 2.) 240; Evans v. Instine, 6 O.
K. 117.

Where there is a joint demurrer to two pleas,and one of the pleas is held good and
the other bad, the demurrer must be overruled. Leave will be given to the party de
murring to amend, upon/payment ot'all costs since ﬁling the demurren—Kent el al. v.
Bicrce, 6 O. R., 336; 110 rlltur v. Lad/l, 5 O. R., 514
50, it is said, if some of the breaches in a declaration are good and some bad, on a

general demurrer, the declaration is good.—ll.chrlhu-r v. Ladd, 5 O. R., 514
Joinder in demurrer thus: "joinder in short," will, it seems, he stricken from the ﬁles,
at the costs ol‘ the party ﬁling it.--Hcadl¢y o. Robey, 6 O. R., 5‘21.
_
_
The court in bank, after intimating an opinion upon ti general demurrer, permitted it
to be withdrawn and the pleadings amended—Cass v. Adams at al., 3 O. R.. 223:
When a defendant demurs, and also tenders issues of fact to the same pleading, he

should he put to elect one, and abandon the other.—The Penn. and Ohio Canal 00. v.
Webb, 9 O. R., 135.

When several are sued ljointly for a tort, which in point oflaw and fact could not be
joint, (as trespass quote 0 nusum fregit a ainst a corporation oggregate,) a general de
marrer is good for all.—Fuo!v v. City of in. et al., 9 O. R., 31
(c) As to rescinding, setting aside and amending orders and judgments, see note,
ante p. 674.
_
A verdict rendered in the court of common pleas cannot be amended by the supreme

How judgment
rendered, 81.0"
when a general
verdict u it
good and ad
COUH l8.

When supreme
court may de
termine issues
at law in an ad
joining counlyi
in.

Party recover
ing Judgment,
entitled to
costs, unless,

142. Snor. VI.

That in suits where there are several counts

in the declaration, some of which are bad or defective, and the

residue good, and the jury shall return a general verdict for the
plaintifff, it shall be lawful for the court to give judgment on such
good counts, to which the evidence on trial was applicable, and,
either before or after motion in arrest of judgment, to strike out
such defective counts; and whenever sufﬁcient appears, to sustain
the verdict. the judgment shall not be reversed on account of
such defective counts. (a)
143. Sacr. VII.

That whenever, from any cause, the su

preme court shall fail to be holden in any county at the time
prescribed by law, it shall be lawful for said court, to prevent a

delay of justice, to take cognizance of any issue in law pending
therein, if the parties to said suit shall agree, in any other county
on the circuit, as is usual in cases taken under advisement, and
certify their decision back to the proper county, for entry and
record. (1))
144. b'nc-r. Vlll. That in all cases, except in those where it
is otherwise provided by this act, or by the act to which this is
an amendment, the party recovering ﬁnal judgment shall be en
titled to recover costs.
court.

The statute does not embrace the amendment of a verdict.—Clark et al. v. Irvin,

9 O. R. 131.

The 1above section was probably intended to supersede the following section of the
practice act of February 10, 1831, which took effect June 1, 1831, 29 v. Stat., ’77.
Sac. 105.

but no summons, writ, declaration, return, process, or other proceedings

in civil causes, in either of the said courts, shall be abated. arrested, uashed or reverstd,
for an defect or want of lorm; but the said courts, respectively, s all give judgment
accor ing to the right of the cause, as the matter in la_w shall appear unto them, with
out regarding any imperfection, detector wantof form in such writ, declaration or other
pleading, ieturued piocess, or course of proceeding whatsosver,except those only in case
of demurrer, which the party demurring shall specially set down and express, together
with his demurrer, as the cause thereof. And the said courts respectively may, by vir
tue of this act, from time to time, amend all and every such imperfection and defect for
want of form, other than those only which the party demurring shall express as afore—
said; and may, at any time before a writ of error be brought. permit either of the parties

to amend any defect in process or pleadings, upon such conditions as the said courts re
spectively shall, in their discretion and by their rules, prescribe.
The section to which this note is appended was probably intended to also supersede
the following act, which passed and took effect February 25, 1834, 32 v. Stat, 20.
An act to amend an not, entitled “An act to regulate the practice of the judicial courts.“
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by (he General Assembly of the State of Ohio, That the supreme
court are hereby authorized to permit either of the parties in any suit or other procctd
ings that may e brought before them by writ of error, to amend any defect in the pro
cess or pleadings after such writ ol'error shall have been allowed or brought, in the same
manner and to the some extent that the court of common pleas is authorized to allow
amendments, by the one hundred and ﬁfth section of the act to which this is an amend
ment; such amendment to be permitted on yment ofcosts, and upon such other con
ditionsas the supreme court shall, in their discretion and by their rules, prescribe.
(a) Before the enactment of this section, a special verdict was taken, and the cause
submitted to the court upon it. Upon a motion in arrest of judgment, on account of
defects in some of the counts ofthe declaration. the court ve judgment on the cod
counts—Trustees 0 Bloom 0111 1:. Trustee: of Chagrin, 5 . R.,315. But where t ere
was a general verdict and judgment, and some of the counts good and some bad. the
court. previous to the enactment of this section, reversed the judgment.—NOI:on v. Ford,
5 O. R, 473; Malﬁeld v. Johnston e1 al.,20. R, 201. See ante p. 684.
(b) The supreme court, sitting in one county, may order it struck jury for the trial of a
cause in the supreme court ofanother county.

And it is said, that neither the consti

tution norlaws limit its territorial 'uriadietion; and that it has, from necessity, sup lied
vacancies in the ofﬁce of clerk an master commissioner, while in session out 0 [lie
county—Sealy 1:. Blair, 6 O. R., 448.

145. Sscr. IX. That if the defendant, in any action upon a When ﬁve per
contract or promise in writing for the payment of money or
other property, shall make no defense in the court of common anappealtothe
pleas, and shall remove the same by appeal to the supreme court, suPreme mu"
and the plaintifff shall, in the supreme court, recover the same
sum, or a larger sum than was recovered in the court of com
mon pleas, exclusive of costs, the supreme court shall render
judgment for the sum so recovered, together with ﬁve per centum
damages thereon, and costs of suit.
146. Srzcr. X.

That whenever any writ of mandamus shall Neglect to

be issued out of the supreme court, the person, body, or tribunal gifeig'tu'gfm
to whom the same shall be directed and delivered, shall make mandamus, a

return to the ﬁrst writ of mandamus, and for neglect so to do °°“‘e“‘p"
shall he proceeded against as for a contempt. (a)
147. Sam. XI. That whenever a return shall be made to Pleadings.&c-.
any such writ, the person prosecuting such writ may demur, or : s'l‘lc‘ge‘mﬂm
plead to all or any of the material facts contained in the said
'
return; to which the person making such return shall reply, take
issue or demur; and the like proceedings shall _be had therein, for
the determination thereof, as might have been had if the person
prosecuting such writ had brought his action on the case for a
false return.
I
148. Srzcr. XII. That in case a verdict shall be found for T—Verdict and
the person suing such writ, or if judgment be given for him upon {2:132:9‘
demurrer, or by default, he shall recover damages and costs in

'

like manner as-he might have done in an action on the case as
aforesaid; and a peremptory mandamus shall be granted to him
without delay.

149. SECT. XIII.

That a recovery of damages, by virtue of —Such judg

have
the foregoing
made a provisions
return to of
a writ
this of
act,mandamus,
against any
shall
party
be who
a bar
shall
to

any other action against the same party, for the making of such
return.
150. StscT. XIV. That whenever a peremptory mandamus Penalty,“ dim
shall be directed to any public ofﬁcer, body or board, command- obeying per
(a) Proceedin 5 upon mandamusmust, in the absence ofstatutory provisions. be gov
erned _hy the ru es and principles ol the common law, so far as they are applicable to our
condition and circumstances.— Universal Church e. Truslels of sec. 29 st (11., 6 0. R.,

Ifa prisoner, indicted in the common pleas for murder, stands mute, when arraigned,
and the court, asserting that another indictment is pending against him for the same
offense in the su reme court, refuse to proceed, the supreme court will, on application,
enter a rule for t e court of common pleas to how cause why a mandamus should not
issue—Mutter of James Turner, 5 O. R., 542.
It is said the most usual object sought by this writ is to exact the execution of some
official duty from a ministerial oﬁicer; In the mailer of James Turner, 5 O. R., 542;
Smith v. (.'o1n‘rs Portage Co., 9 O. R., 25; but it is e uallv applicable to compel courts
to do that justice which the law enjoins them to administer. Whenever an inferlor
court reluses to exercise its jurisdiction, the writ of mandamus is the appropriate rem
edy. It is not a rented adapted to correct errors, or to constrain them to act in a par
ticular manner. The all object of the writ is obtained if it produces action, and calls
forth the exercise ofjurisdiction.-—lnlhe matter qf James Turner, 5 O. R., 2.
I
A mandamus may issue to the court of common pleas to enforce the signing of a bill
of exccptions,but not to compel the court to sign a particular bill of exceptions—Stalling them to perform any public duty, specially enjoined upon
them by any provision of law, if it shall appear to 'the court
that such ofﬁcer, or any member of such body, or board, has,
without just excuse, refused or neglected to perform the duties
so enjoined, the court may impose a ﬁne upon every such ofﬁcer
or member of such body or board; and such ﬁne, when collect
ed, shall be paid into the treasury of the county; and the pay
ment of such ﬁne shall be a bar to any action for any penalty
incurred by such ofﬁcer, or member of such body or board,
by reason of his refusal or neglect to perform the duty thus en
J‘oined.
151. sm. XV. That so much of the act to which this is an
amendment as is inconsistent with the provisions of this act, be
and the same is hereby repealed.
An act further to amend the “Act to regulate the practice of the judicial courts."
[Passed M'arch 14, 1837.

The seal, test,
signing, date
and style of

process.



152. SECT. I. Be it enacted by the General Assembly oft/1e State
of Ohio, That all writs and process issuing from the supreme
court, or courts of common pleas, shall be under the seal of the

court, from whence the same shall issue, (a) and shall bear test,
and be signed by the clerk of the court issuing the same; and all
writs and process shall run in the style of “The State of Ohio,
county, ss.,” and shall be dated of the day on which
the same may issue.
Writ of error
153. SECT. I]. That ﬁnal judgments in the supreme court,
from court in held in any county within this state, may be re-examined and
bank to su
reversed or afﬁrmed in the court in bank, upon a writ of error,
preme court;
——Its allow
which writ of error may be allowed by the said court in bank
once;
during its session, or by any two judges of the supreme court in
~Limitation. vacation: provided, that such writs of error shall not be brought
but Within one year after the rendition of the judgment com
plained of.
154. Sacr. 111. That upon the allowance of such writ of
When clerk to
make out trun error, it shall be the duty of the clerk of the supreme court, in
script of record;
the county where the judgment sought to be reversed was ren
dered, on being officially advised of the allowance of such writ
of error, forthwith to make out an authenticated transcript of
—Assignment the record, on which the plaintifff in error shall enter an assign
of error, (51.0., ment of the errors alleged, and a prayer for a reversal of the
thereon;
—-To be trans judgment; which transcript shall be forthwith transmitted to the
mitted to clerk clerk of the court in bank, and the same shall by him be entered
of court in
bank,and dock on the docket of said court; and it shall be the further duty of
eted;
the clerk of the supreme court in the county, to issue to the ad
verse party, or his attorney,a citation, signed by said clerk,

which citation shall be served upon said adverse party or his
(a) A writ without a seal, from a court having and using a seal, is void—Boa] :1 al.
1»ng e!al., 6 O.R.,11.


attorney, at least twenty days before the sitting of the court in —\Vh_en and
bank: provided, that in cases under this act, when neither the
defendant in error, nor his attorney of record, shall reside in the and served;‘
state of Ohio, it shall be the duty of the plaintiﬂ' in error to give
notice of the allowance of such writ of error for three succes
sive weeks previous to the sitting of the court in bank, by pub- —W'hen notice

lication in some newspaper published in the county in which ggc§jlfvw.“"°e °f


ii! to be

such original record remains, and if no newspaper is published in published;

said county, then in some newspaper of most general circula
tion therein.
155. SECT. IV.

That no writ of error allowed by virtue of

When such

this act, shall operate as a supersedeas to any execution issued “"i‘ m °Pe""°
.
as a supersede
on any ﬁnal judgment of the supreme court, unless the clerk of 8,, Bond {0,
the supreme court, before signing the citation heretofore men- "1'" Purpose
tioned, shall take a bond from the applicant to the adverse party,
with one or more good and sufﬁcient securities, in double the
amount of the judgment obtained, conditioned for the payment
of the condemnation money and costs, in case the judgment
of the said supreme court should be afﬁrmed in whole or in
part.
1.56. Seer. V. That in actions at law, which may be pend- Whamforyvhat
_
,
.
.
_
- how billsof
ing
and
hereafter tried
in
the supieme
court, Within
any county and
exccmonsm
be
of this state, either party shall have the right to except to the taken to opin
opinion of the court, upon any question of law adjudged or de- 232'"? égjnsu‘
termined by said court; and when a party to a suit in the
'
supreme court in any county within this state, alleges an excep
tion to any order or judgment of such court, it shall be the duty
of the judges holding such court, if required by such party during
the term, to sign and seal a bill,containing such exception 0r
exceptions, in order that such bill of exceptions may, if such
party desire it, be made a part of the record in such suit.
157. SECT. VI. That when a judgment shall be reversed in When judg
the court in bank, in whole or in part, such court may procee ,
gou'r'f're_
either to render such judgment as the supreme court in the yersed b court

county should have rendered, or remand the case to the next $02223," °w‘°

supreme court, to be holden within such county, by writ of pro'

cedendo, for such judgment; and the court in bank shall not Judgments of

issue execution in causes that are removed to said court by writ flawlemrbcisk'
of error as aforesaid, on which they pronounced judgment, but
i
shall send a special mandate to the proper court, to award exe
cution thereupon; and in rendering judgment for cost, in cases
removed to the court in bank by writ of error, said court in
bank shall be governed by the provisions of the one hundred
and seventh section of the act to regulate the practice of the
judicial courts, passed March 8, 1831.
158. SECT. VII. That in any action at law, sounding in conCosts on error
Lr‘ﬁwprem
'
Ame p.681.
Whenthecoun

tract, which may be pending in any court of common pleas of Signiﬁhmaﬂﬂry
this state, when the parties to such action shall agree to waive Issues of fact

the intervention of a jury, and to submit the case to the court, “Mm-“1"”
it shall be the duty of such court to try and determine the facts,
without calling a jury, any thing in any law to the contrary

In certain ac- notwithstanding.(a) And in all actions on written contracts, for
ikfadzflsgg; sums of money certain, where the plaintiﬂ' oﬁ'ers to submit the
and has no de- case to the court, and the defendant shall call a jury, such de

lel'ce' 5w“ he fondant shall pay all expenses incurred by calling such jury,
shall pay 011Penn,

.

.

.

unless by plea or notice, he set up and sustain on the trial a de
fence of payment, set otf, release, fraud, failure or want of con

sideration.
Acts repealed.

159. Sscr. VIII.

That the ﬁrst section of the “act to regu

29 v. Stat.,5B. late the practice of the judicial courts,” passed March 8, 1831,
“an act to amend an act to regulate the practice of the judicial
31 v. Stat, 10. courts,” passed February 25, 1833, so much of the sixth section
of the “act directing the mode of proceeding in chancery,” passed
29 v, 5m, 82, March 14, 1831, together with such other acts and parts of acts

as are contrary to the provisions of this act, be and the same
are hereby repealed.
This act to take effect and be in force from and after the ﬁrst
day of April next.
An act to authorize the making of indexes to the judicial records, in the county of
Hamilton, and in other counties in this state.

[Passed Mare]: 14, 1836.

Took eject, First Monday in June, 1836.

34 v. Sum, 45.]

Clerk of the
160. SECT. I. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the
court of Ham- State of Ohio, That it shall be the duty of the clerk of the court
of common pleas of Hamilton county, to make out and keep in
to judgments, such books as the said court shall direct, general indexes to all
gfi'hi'j‘vl, Whe“ judgments at law, decrees in chancery, and orders, rendered or

'

made by said court; the said indexes shall contain two lists in
alphabetical order, one of which shall contain the names of each
plaintifff, vs. the name of each defendant, to the judgment, decree,
or order; and the other shall contain the names of each defend

ant, ads. the names of each plaintifff, to the judgment, decree, or
order, with the amount of the judgment or decree rendered
against such defendant; and said indexes shall contain a refer
ence to the page of the minutes and term of the court at which
such judgment, decree, or order, shall have been rendered or

made; and shall be made up and completed within two weeks
after the close of each term of said court.
_And ,0 cm
161. Seer. II. That it shall be the further duty of said clerk
culion docket. to make out and keep, in such books as the said court shall direct,

sailﬁnal '°' and in the manner pointed out in the ﬁrst section of this act,
indexes to every execution docket, and to the ﬁnal records of
said court.
Court ,0 pm
162. SECT- III. That the said court is hereby authorized to
cure a“ suitable procure some suitable person to make out indexes, in the manner
"mum make pointed out in the ﬁrst section of this act, to all judgments and
(a) It is error for the court to decide a cause submitted to them by counsel, and to
renderjudgment, when there is no issue made up, and they omit to pass on a plea ﬁled.
-Headley :1. Ruby, 6 0. R.. 521. The will not hear a cause which is submitted with
out rocess and p eudings.—illaum u. ‘mbree. 5 0. R., 77.
_ \ here a cause is at issue upon a question of fact, it cannot be submitted to, and de

cided by the court, if either party object thereto—Mill: 0. Notes, 10. R.. 534.

decrees rendered by said court, between the ﬁrst Monday in certain indexes
January, eighteen hundred and twenty six, and the ﬁrst Monday ‘° P"°"“°"ds‘
in June, eighteen hundred and thirty six; and to allow for the _A“owanco

same, such sum as to said court shall seem reasonable, to be paid
out of any money in the treasury of said county, not otherwise
appropriated.
163. Seer. IV. That if the said clerk shall neglect or refuse
to perform the duties enjoined upon him by this act, he shall be
removed from oﬁice by said court. And it is hereby made the
duty of the prosecuting attorney of said county, to see that the
provisions of this act are strictly complied with by the said
clerk.
164. Seer. V.

therefore.

Penaltyfor ne
ﬁnal:
three'preceding
mmns' 6“

It shall be lawful for the court of common Conn. or any

pleas, or supreme court of any county in this state, to order
such indexes to be kept in their respective courts, as provided for es ,0 be kepL

in the ﬁrst and second sections of this act.
165. Sac-r. VI. This act shall take eﬁ'ect and be in force When ﬁve pre
glontr and after the ﬁrst Monday in June, eighteen hundred and fggfgﬂﬁfm'
If y srx.
An act to amend the act, entitled “An act to authorize the making of indexes to
the judicial records in the county of Hamilton, and in other counties of this state,“
passed March 16, 1836, and for other purposes.

‘

[Passed and mi. .17.“, January 26, .1838. as v. Slat., 15.] '
,

166. Seer. I.

Be itenactedbythe GeneralAssemblyq/‘lhe State Haw clerk, of

of Ohio, That the respective clerks of the supreme court and "ﬁrm" m“?
courts of common pleas of this state, each for his

roper county, '32,,,§Z;’,"j,§,,

shall make out and keep, in books to be provided by him for that of other coun

purpose, general indexes, such as are required for the court of

§,31,5"

common pleas of Hamilton county, by the ﬁrst section of the
act to which this is an amendment, except that in making such
indexes, it shall be sufficient to state the names of the parties,
together with the book and page of the ﬁnal record in which
the judgment, or order, or decree, is recorded, and the book and
page of the execution docket, in which the case is set down.
167. SECT. II. That whenever the court of common pleas, What record,

in any county of this state, may deem it necessary for the pres- the mu" (if
ervation of the records, that any book in the clerk, recorder, or Zim$§?e§ee°'

auditor’s ofﬁce, of that county, shall be transcribed into a new @011" may di
.

.

recttobetrans—

volume, the court may make and enter upon ,their Journal an cribe¢ The

order directing such transcript to be made; and the supreme "mm-ript "B
court may, in like manner, direct their clerk in any county, to rd'
transcribe any book in his oﬁice; and the transcripts so made

shall be as valid and eﬁ'ectual, for all purposes, as the original
record.
168. SECT. III. The several ofﬁcers who may be required to com nation
perform the services mentioned in this act, shall be entitled to 3‘ ° “‘1' ""
receive., for making the indexes, the same compensation that is d?§g“ZZc.?;§f'

now allowed by law for like services;and for transcribing records, and 11°" PM
as provided in the second section of this act, they shall be en- c'
titled to receive six cents for every hundred words; and the fees

they may be entitled to receive for services under this act, shall
be paid out of the county treasury, upon the order of the court
of common pleas, of the proper county.
'
An act to amend the act, entitled “An act to amend the act, entitled 'an act to an
thorize the making of indexes to the judicial records in the county of Hamilton,
and in other counties of this state,‘ passed March 16, 1836, and tor other purpo
ses,“ passed January 26, 1838.
[Passed and took eﬂ'ect, March 16, 1839.

Court may al
' lowclerkscom
pensation for
makingindexes

37 o. Stat., 58.]

169. SECT- I. Be it enacted by the General Assembly ofthe State
of Ohio, That the supreme court and courts of common pleas of
this state may allow to their respective clerks such additional
compensation for their services, to be performed under the pro
visions of the act to which this is an amendment, as they may
think just and reasonable, to be paid in the same manner as is
provided in said act.
REFERENCES TO PRIOR LAW'S.

As to ATTACHMENTS—BANKS, BANKING, 6L0.—JL'DGMENTS AND EXECUTIONS, speciﬁcally
—L1MITATION or ACTIONS—REPLLVIN—SUERIFFB sun CUROAERS—SURETIES no mu.—
WILLS, dw—axacurotts AND ADMINISTRATORS, see notes at the end of the chapters upon

thgse several titles.

As to the adoption of the common law of England, see ante p.

42 , note.

See act August 23, 1788—organization ofcourts, appointment of sherili's, {kc—Chase,
94. November 6, HEM—increasing number of judges. &.c —Cl|ase, 107. Auuust 1,
1792—furms of process, dam—Chase, 129. June 5, 1795—practice generally—Chase.
147. J arts 10, 1795—organization and practice generally—Chase, 147. J une 11, 1795—
oaths and ntﬁrmations—Uhase, 151. June 11, 1795~recovery of ﬁnes and forl'eitures,
and how estreated—Chase, 152. July 14, 1795—recoveries upon contracts, &c., con
taining penalties, doc—Chase, 187. July 14, 1795—repealing certain acts—Chase, 191.
July 16, 1795-continuance ol' suits when no quorum—Chase, 199. July 17,1795—
ejectment, distress for rent, detainer, dun—Chase, 200. . August 15. 1795—imprison
ment and servitude for debts—Chase, 203. May 1, 1798—] udgment on defaults—Chase,
206.

October 28, 1799—re-cnactment, conﬁrmation. &c., at certain territorial laws—

Chase, 211. October 29, 1799—practice generally—Chase, 217. December 19, 1799—
repeahng certain laws—Chase, 286. December 3, lave—special bail, (kc—Chase, 290.
December 8, 1800— ractice generally—Chase, 297. December 9, ISOO—practice gener
ally—Chase, 306.
anuary 4, lSOQ—real contracts—Chase, 329. January 22, 1502—
batl bonds and their assignment—Chase, 336. January 13, 18b2-depositi0ns to per
petuate evidence, (kc—Chase, Btu. April 15, BOB—organization and practice ol'state
courts—Chase, 355. February 18, IBM—amendatory of preceding act—Chase, 412.
February 213, NOS—organization and practice ofcourts—Chase, 450. February 2, 1805
—bail bonds and assignments of, &,c.-Chase 478. February 11. 1805-depositions to
erpetuatu evidence, deer-Chase, 479. February 19, 1805—real contracts~Chase, 480.
ebruary 14, 1305—service and return of process, &c.—Uhase, 500.

-repealtag part of prior act and certain laws—Chase, 516-517.

February 22. 1805

January 27, lBOG—or

ganization and practice generally—Chase, 531. February 4, ISM—organization and
practice generally—Chase.561. Janttary 30, 1807—realcontracts—Chase, 563. Febru
ary 17, 1
rganization and practice - Chase, 567. February 15, 1809—practice and
abatement ofsutts, doc-Chase, 638. January 16, 1810—real contracts—Chase, 648.
February 20, 1810—terms, practice, doc—Chase, 703. February 16, lSlO—organiza
tion and practice—Chase, 705 January 30, 1811--suretiee ofbnil—Chase, 758 Feb
ruary 21, 1812—terms, practice—Chase, 781. Fehrunr 20. lam—service of process,
duh—Chase, 783. February 4, 1813— racttce genera ly—Chase, 794. February 10
IBM—legalizing judicial acts—Chase,

process, dam—Chase, 928. February 23, 1816-urganization and practice generall —
Chase, 957. February 25,1820—scrvice and return of process. dad—Chase, 1167. 13e
cember 19, 1821,1rivrlous suits and appeals—Chase, 1207.

PARTIES TO ACTIONS.—Il is said that a sister state may sue in the courts of Ohio,
and it is held, that whenjudgment is obtained by an ofﬁcer ofa sister state, as such,
in the courts of his own state and in his ofﬁcial name. his successor may sue here, on
thejudgment.—Treasurer qf Connecticut 1:. Brocktzay, l O. R., 259.
After plea in the common pleas, it is too late to object that the plaintifffs sued in their
individual names before the justice, and have declared properly, in their ofﬁcial chame
ter,as trustees —-Il"|1807l v. Trustees of No. 16, 8 O. R., 174.
Where suit was commenced. beforeajusiice, against "Fisley, Barrey and Palmer, trus
tees of New Haven township," when it should have been against “The trustees ochw
Haven townshi ,” without naming the individual oﬁicers, it was held, on certiorari to

the jud ment, t at the words “Fisle , Barrey and Palmer," must be treated as surplus
age.— ording 1:. Trustees of New [amt lownship,3 U. R., 227.
A. agreed, ingwriting, tobe responsible for the debt of B.—and C. signed the following
writing, which was added to the original instrument: “I make myself, jointly, respon
sible with A.“ Held, that A. was noijofnlly bound with C-.; and thereforee, ujoint ac
tion could not be maintained against A. and U.—Cump u. Hulel rt 01., 6 0. R., 417.
\Vhen suit is brought in the name of one person, for the use ofanother, it is not ne

cessary for the plaintifff to show an assignment to the person for whose use the suit up
rs to be
not a party
the action,
it is of no interest
the de
fsizidant,
to brought.
know, whoHeis is
entitled
to the to
money
when and
collected.—Numlin
a. to
lVisllaks,
2 O. R., 24.

As to paying over the money to such third person, see ante p. 475.

1. Dscniiita'rtox.—See negotiable instruments, ante p. 591, note.
Asato dates in a declaration when the statute of limitations is pleaded, see ante
.
55 , writ
note.forms a part ofthe record, and indicates, by its date, the commencement of
p The
the action. If, thereforee, the declaration be entitled, generally, of a term, and the
cause of action accrued on the second day of that. term, it is no ground of objection, if,
inéariti, the suit was commenced after the second day of that term—Detail v. Greenﬁeld,

5 . ., 225.
An action was brought a ainst the defendant for placing a tub of brine at his own
door, which was drunk by p uintiff‘s oxen, whereby they were injured; held, that in
an action for damages consequent on an act innocent in itself, and injurious only from
the circumstances under which it was done, those circumstances, showing the wrong,
should be stated in the declaration.—Heu o. Luplon, '7 O. R., (Part 1,) 216.
Declaration good when various kinds of indebtednms are alleged in one count, and a
sinrrle and general promise and breach are assigned—Nichols a. Poul-Ion, 6 O. R., 305.
n declarin upon a false afﬁrmation as to the credit of another, whereby the plaintifff
was defraiide , unless it be averred that the afﬁrmation was made fraudulently and with
the intent to deceive, or knowing the contrary to be the truth, it will be bad. If the

declaration aver, merely, “that by means of the premises the defendant falsely and fraud
ulently deceived the plaintifff," it may be suﬂicient,aftcr Verdict, but is, it seems, bad on
demurrer. In such case, the injury must be shown to arise from the false affirmation,
or the declaration will be had—Bk. St. Clairsville o. Beebe, 6 O. R., 497.

In an action for malicious prosecution, the declaration contained two counts. One al
leged, in blank, the commission ofthe offense, “on the
day of
1824," the
other, “on or about the 24th day of May, 1824." The affidavn containing the charge,
and which stated the offense to have been committed on or about the 16th of May,
1824. was held admissible in evidence—Richards v. Foulks, 3 0. R., 66.
Though in personal actions, generally, the da mentioned in the pleadings is imma
terial, it may nevertheless be made material.
Vhere suit was brought against a per
son for so negligentl protesting a note that the indorser was not charged, and the dec
laration alleged the emand made and notice given by the defendant on the right day,
and the negligence proved and relied upon on the trial, was that the demand and notice
was on the day before the last day of grace: it was held that the proof did not correspond
with the dcclarationmnd that the allegation of the day oldemand and notice were mate
rial —Hough 1). Young, 10. R., 504. See also note,ante p. 553.
A declnration in case, for erectinga dam, 41.0., ncrossa navigable stream, alleging
that the plaintifff‘s boat was wrecked in passing over the dam, is sustained by proof that
in crossing the dam, the boat was rendered ,unmanagenble, and was, consequently,
lvroecked by the pier of a bridge below.—Hagg at al. v. Zanesville Canal, (Sc, 5 O. R.,
l .

An agreement, under seal, was signed by A. for himself, his partner, and as agent
for a third person. There was an indorsement upon it, without date or sea]. enlarging
the terms of the a reement, and made and signed by A., but without naming his part
ner or his principa .

It was held, in an action against A., alone, upon the agreement,

that the indorsement should be declared upon us a part of the original agreement, if
made at the time ofthe execution of the original agreement, and whether it formed a
part ofthe original agreement, was a question for the jury to determine, under the
charge of the court, upon an issue of non rstfacmm, in like manner as it would be, if
ithﬁVﬂS an interlineation, varying the agreeement as ﬁrst drawn —.McArlIiur v. Ladd
5 . ., 514.
In an action on the case, for an injury done to water pipes, in a public street, ifthe

plaintifff undertakes to set out. his title,_ he must set out a good one, or the defendant
may demur generally.

Where a plaintifff, in such case, claims title under it town ordinunce, and from his declaration it appears, that his rights depend“upon certain terms in
said ordinance expressed," the terms of the ordinance must be set out. The plaintifff, it
is said, might perhaps, have rested his title upon his possession—Cincinnati Water
Company 1;. Cincinnati, 4 O. R., 443.
It is error to render judgment on a verdict for a greater amount than the damages
demanded in the declaration. In such case, the court might, perhaps, after reversmg
thejudgment, enter such 'udgment us thecourt of common pleas ought to have render
ed, upon condition that t e plaintifff below remits the excess ofthe verdict.—Powell v.

Harler, 5 O. R., 259.
The omission of a material uverment, in the declaration, cannot be supplied by proof
on the trial.-— W'aLdsmith v. IValdtmith, 2 t). R., 156
It is said, where a party, for a consideration received, has made a contract to pay
money or property, actions have, by common consent, been sustained thereon, without
setting forth or proving the consideration: the words “for value received,“ in the con
értbctkbeing deemed sutﬁcient.-Dugau v. Campbell, 1 0. R., 115; Ring 0! al. v. Foster,

Ifn contract has been put an end to, by the concurrent acts of both parties, the plain
iizﬁ'muy recover what is reasonable, upon the common counts-Fitclt 0. Sergeant, l O.

It seems ifu party for whose beneﬁt work is done under a special contract, waive its
exact performance, or discharge or prevent the other party from completing it, or the
contract is put an end to by the consent of both parties, or is performed, in either case
the laborer tnu recover, upon common counts in ussumpsi'Jor work and labor. So,
it seems, if A. is indebted to B. for work done by B. for A., or for goods sold by B. to A.,
and fhr which B. a reed to receive work or goods in payment, but A. neglects to per
form his contract, ., instead ofsuing for the reach of this last agreement, may recover on
the common counts for the original goods sold by him, or labor done by hint—Newman
u. McGregor, 50. R., 349. It. is and that the plaintifff, who proceeds on the count tor
money had and received, on the ground that the contract has failed,und is rescinded,
must be in a situation to restore to the defendant that for which the money was puid,or
must show that the defendant has prevented it; otherwise the declaration should be on
the contract itselli—Rrsd at al. v. llIcGrew, 5 O R., 375.
2. PLEA, die—When the defendant pleads in abatement a misnomer of the luintiﬂ',
that‘ﬂuintitf may reply that he is known as well by one name as the other.— 000101010
0. OnaIgléheral
n, l pleadings
. .,
. the supreme court cannot tnkcjudicisl not ice of the length ofthe
term of a court of common less; Kent at al. v. Bieroe 0101., 6 0. R., 336; or that at ca
nal is com lewd—Bales v. ooper, 5 O. R., 115.
When the natural interpretation of the terms used in a plea shows a ood defense,
exception cannot be taken thereto by a general demurrer.» lVood at al. u
an): ct al , 7
O. R , (Part 1.) 196.
The plea of non atfaclum, to a scire fucias to make personal representatives parties

to u 'udgment rendered on u bond, is not a nullity. It puts in issue the making of the
bond,only, and if thejury ﬁnd the bond to be the deed of the decedent, the law declares
the consequence; which is, that the personal representatives be made parties [0 the
judlgment.—I_3ruzre ct al. 1:. Blake el al., 50. R., 340.
he plea of mm eslfactum puts nothing in issue but the execution and validity ofthe
deed, or sealed instrument upon which the suit is brought. Therefore, if the plaintifff
avers performance, or a readiness, and offer to perform a condition, which he treats in
his declaration as mutual, and to be performed at the same time with that u on which
the suit is brought, and the defendant pleads non calfactum, the plnintitfnec not prove
his uverments us to such condition, in order to recover dumages.—C0ucirr et al. v. Gra
ham, 1 O. R., 330.
Under the general issue, in ussumpsit, u former recovery cannot be given in evi
dence—lumen o. Jenkins, 3 t). R., 271.
It seems it'n defendant pleads double, as the general issue, and a special plan in bar,
the plaintiﬁ'csnnot use the admissions in one pltll, as evidence to sustain the issue upon
the other plea. Each must besustained without reference to the admissions in the other
plea—Salim" rial. v. Gilbert, 8 O. R., 405.
It double replications to a plea are both found trite by a verdict, it affords no ound
for the defendant to prosecute s writ 0f("’1'01'.-——Rf6]tﬂt07td t‘. Patterson 0101., 3 O. L, 368.
3._ REPLEADI-LR “Where an issue is taken upon a point that will not determine the
merits of the cause, and the court is at a loss for which party to ivejudgment, theissue,
it seems, will be held an immaterial one, and a repleuder wi l, eihups, be awarded
But it repleader will not be awarded, after trial upon an issue, w tere the merits have
come fairly up, and the court can safely pronounce judgment on the verdict.-—Bales 0.
Cooper, 5 U. R., 115; Jordan :1 alm. James 6! (11., 5 O. R., 88-108.

85011011
SECTION
1. Equity jurisdiction of common pleas;
20. Replication or exceptions, when to be
2. ——Concurrent and appellate of supreme
ﬁled—Effect of not ﬁling.
21. Costs upon exceptions, by whom paid.
court;
3.—Muy establish rules.—-To be gov
22. If anchr insufﬁcient, when second to
be ﬁled.——Eﬁ'ect of not ﬁling second
erned by usages in chanccry.
4.—Applications to, to be by petition,
answer.
23. Remedy of complainant, if second on
ﬁled.
5. Subpoanu. to issue on bill—when re
swer insufﬁcient.
24. Before whom defendant may swear to
turnable.
6. Form of subpmna, 6w.
answer.
7. When all or some of defendants reside 25. How defendant may make new parties
in different counties, or out of state,
to the cause.
how their appearance may be effected. 26. When defendant may put interroga
8. How subpoana, &,c , for appearance
tories to complainant.--Answers there
served, and service indorsed and veri
to, evidence.--How answers enforced.
ﬁed—When defendants considered in 27. When cross bill to he answered.
court.
28. Rules by consent, when entered.
9. Parties defendants under diﬂ'erent ti
29. Costs of amendments.
tles—costs on disclaimer.
30. Parties to take notice of ﬁling plead
10. When the names of defendants, heirs,
ings, and of decrees.
are unknown, how to proceed.
31.0n hearing, on bill and answer only,
ll. How answer to a bill of discovery may
answer to be taken as true, unless, the.
be used.
32. Cause is at issue, on replication.
12. Persons having title and possession of 33. Issues out of chancery.—Record and
land, may compel other claimants
effect of verdict.
to release or disclaim--—Costs in such 34. Decrees to operate asjudgments at law.
case.
35. Decree for a conveyance to operate as
13. In what cases and how a creditor, be
a conveyance.
fore judgment or decree, may proceed 36. Writs of ne exent, by whom and when
in chnncery against persons holding
and how allowed;
the effects, or owing his debtor.
37. —When such writ may be discharged.
14. In whntcasaund how he may proceed 38. Injunction to stay waste or proceed
in chancery for the like purpose, after
ings at law, by whom granted.
judgment or decree, and also against 39 Injunction to stay proceedings at law;
equities, stocks, &.c.
—amount in dispute to authorize al
15. Pleasand answers, when and where to
lowance;-—the petition and jurat;—se
be ﬁled —When petition taken as con
curity by complainant;
fessed, and proofs and decree in such 40.-Such injunction not to operate till
case.
bond given;—-condition of such bond,
16. Issue may be taken on plea.
and approval of security;—-writ of in
l7. Demnrrer ﬁrst disposed of.
junction not to issue, but its allowance
18. Plea, &.c., overruled, decree pro con
indorsed on subpaznu.
fesso, or answer received on afﬁdavit 41. Decree with penalty, doc, in common
of merits, 6m;
pleas, when such injunction dissolved,
19. —Costs on plea, &c., by whom paid.
and bill dismissed;

SECTION
what terms opened, and effect upon
42 On appeals to supreme court in such
purchaser under former decree.
case, decree for penalties, 6.10., if bill
58. Either party to suit dying, how re
dismissed, &c.
vived, 8w.
'
43. Money received by ofﬁcer on execution
59. Master commissioners may be appoin
to be repaid by him, if proceedings en
ted;—term ofoﬂice;~their powers and
joined;
duties;—their fees.
44. —If he refuses, may be amerced—But
such money may abide the order of the 60, 61, 62, 63. Bills to perpetuate evidence;
court or judge.
—their requisites, &c., and proceedings
45, 46. Proceedings against party disobey
thereon, and effect, &.c;
64. -—~Costs in such cases.
ing injunction to stay waste.
47. Injunctions may be allowed in all oth
65. Acts repealed—Saving, &.c.
er cases usual in chancery, and on what 66, 67. Upon bill of review ﬁled in supreme
court, when plea, answer, replication,
showing and terms.
48. How decrees and orders may be en
exceptions, 81.0.. to be ﬁled.
68. Assignments to trustees to prefer cred
forced.
49. Oﬁicer failing to make return of pro
itors, &c., how construed, and how
cess in chancery, to be in contempt,
controled, God. in chancery.
69. Records in chancery, how made up and
and ﬁned.
_
50. How process, rules and orders enforced
attested by presidingjudge.
by ﬁne and imprisonment.
70. Master commissioners to give bond,
51. Costs, against whom awarded, and
and how, &c., and suits thereon.
how collected generally, in chancery.
'71. When defendants to bill of review in
52. Appeals to supreme court, from ﬁnal
supreme court may be brought in by
decrees of common pleas, when and
publication.
how taken.--Such appeals not to affect
72. Suits relating to land, title, boundaries,
lien of decrees.
contracts‘, mortgages, &c., in what
53. Petitions for rehearing, when, by
county to be brought.—Decree to be
whom, and how granted.
notice only in county where rendered,
54, 55, 56. Petition for review, when, by
unless recorded elsewhere, &c.
whom, and how granted, and proceed
ings thereon, and for stay of former ‘73. Decrees for sale of lands to be directed
to sheriff or ofﬁcer of county.
proceedings, &c.
57. Decrees,against parties notiﬁed by pub
74. Act, &,c., repealed —chenth section
lication, when, and how, and upon
of this chapter revived.
An act directing the mode of proceeding in chancery.
[Passed March 14, 1831.

Took eject, June 1, 1831.

29 a. Slut , 81.]

Ewiwnmg
1. SECTION I. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the
:21; 8183111- State of Ohio, That the court of common pleas shall have juris

diction in all cases properly_c0gnizable by a court of chancery,
in which plain, adequate, and complete remedy cannot be had
at law. (a)
(a) JURISDICTION or m coca-r or CHANCERY.—Tl'lﬂl a court of chanccry has juris
diction in those cases where “a plain, adequate and complete remedy cannot be had at
law." is, it is said, the apothegm by which the power is limited, in every country where
the distinction 18 known between courts of law and equity. The extent of the restric
tion has long since been deﬁned. It is a technical maxim, adopted by our legislature
in its technical sense, and receives the same interpretation here as elsewhere. It is a
part of the general chancery law, that where a class of'cascs are the objects of chancery
jurlsdiction, that jurisdiction is not taken away because courts oflaw subsequently ad
minister a remedy. Therefore, it was held a settled course of chancery, at the instance
of creditors, legatces and the rest of kin, to compel an account and distribution ofdece
dent‘s estates, against executors and administrators. The position they occupy is not
in their own right, but ﬁduciary; any one, whose interests they hold, may enforce them,
through chancery, to perform their duty in the execution of the trusl.~ Cram e! n]. v.
Green (I 0.1., G O. R., 429.


2. SECT. II. The supreme court shall have concurrent juris- ——Concurrent
diction with the courts of common pleas, in all cases properly and appellate of
supreme court;
cognizable by'a court of chancery, where the title to, or any
contract in relation to land is in question, or the sum or matter
in dispute exceeds one thousand dollars in value; and appellate
jurisdiction in all cases regularly brought before them, from the
chancery decisions of the courts of common pleas.
3. Sac-r. Ill. The said courts shall have power to make rules —May estab
rules;
and regulations for the government of proceedings had before lish
—To be gov
them, and shall, in all things, be governed by the known usages erned by usages
of courts of equity, except where it may be otherwise provided in chancery;
by law.
4. Seer. IV. All applications to the chancery side of either —App&mijtions
to, to
pe
of said courts, shall be by petition, settin forth the nature and tition,
ﬁled'.
grounds of the complainant’s claim, whici shall be ﬁled in the
ofﬁce of the clerk of such court.
5. Seer. V. The clerk, on the application of the complain Subpoana to is
ant or his solicitor, shall, after said petition is ﬁled, issue a sub—

ptena to the defendant or defendants named in said petition,
commanding him or them to appear at the next term of the court,
When a person has an option, from the nature of his claim, to resort to a court of
chancery, or a court of law, he cannot, after selecting one tribunal,and being there de
feated by an erroneous decision, resort to the other.—Buell v. Cross, 4 0. R., 327.
An objection to the jurisdiction, in general, comes too late, after a defendant has an

swered and contested the merits—Rees v. Smith, 1 O. R., 124.
A court ofchancery will take jurisdiction, to subject the estate of a deceast obligor
to
the payment
bond, upon
which 1;.
judgment
beenetobtained
survivmg
obligors
who areofa
insolvent;
.Maltoon
Ole ’s has
adm’rs
al., 8 O. aRg.,ainst
248; the
to subject
an
equitable estate in lands to the payment 0 ajudgment which could not be brought to
sale except under a decree; Id. 1b.; Piatl v. St. Clair‘s heirs, 6 O. R., 227; to relieve

from a penalty: as when a. person takes from a borrower of money an obligation for a
greater amount than the money lent and interest, with an undertakin on the part of
the lender to receive a less sum in dischar eof the obligation, if punctual y paid. When
the court thus relieve from the sanity, t e complainant should,in general, brin into
court, at the time of ﬁling his bi l, the amount really due, if it be injudgment,— rock
way v. Clark, 6 O. R., 45. The court will carry into effect the intention of the parties,
when, by fraud or mistake, such intention is not embodied in a written contract.—Hu1tt
et al v. Freeman, 10. R., 490; Edwards a. Morris, 1 O. R., 524. And see Lab 1:.
Parks 21 al., 4 O. R., 469. But a part , seeking to set up in chancery a contract, di er
ent from the written one, upon whic judgment has been had at law, must show an
offer to perform the contract he claims to establish, at the time it ought to have been
perlormed, and a readiness to still perform itz—As where a. note was by mistake ivenJ
ayable in current bank notes of t e city of Cincinnati, instead of notes of the 5 iami
‘xporting Company; and it was held that a statement_ of the payec,beiore the time of
payment, that he would not receive the bank notes which by the contract he was bound
to receive, would not excuse a tendon—Edwards v. Morris, 1 O. R.,‘524.
So a court of chancery will enjoin a sale of real estate on execution, where the sale
would confer no title, but would cast a cloud upon the title of the complainant—Nor
ton v. Beaver at al., 5 O. R., 178; Bank U. States v. Schultz, 2 O. R., 4‘71.
_
Equitable estates in land are in general subjected, in courts of equit , to the same
zules which govern legal estates in courts of iﬂW.—Campbell et al. v.
98

also", 8 O. R.,

When a party claims the beneﬁt of a covenant, and there is a prior condition to be
performed by him, which is set up as a bar and forfeiture of the beneﬁt of the covenant,
on account of the nonperformance of such condition, it is said: “Where, from the na
ture of the a rcement, the penalty is only intended as a security that thecousideration
shall be per ormcd, a court of equity may relieve; for, notwithstanding they do so, they
give the party that which he stiplulated to receive, and thereforee no injury is done; but
where the relief would destroy t e substance of the contract, as if the thing stipulated
be a collateral act, relief cannot be granted, for no precise valuecan be aﬂixe to such an
act.

In the case before its, the condition was the performance of an act to third per

sons, and the inconvenience resulting from the nonperformance cannot be determined,

and of course there is no criterion for ﬁxing a compensation."—Hutchemn a. McNutt'a
hire, 1 0.R., 14—2].

_

sue on bill;
—When re
turnable.

and answer the complainant’s petition; and if the petition is ﬁled
in term time of either of said courts, then the subpoena shall
issue, returnable forthwith.

6. Seer. VI.
subpoena:
Form of sub—
pmnu, &c.

»

The following shall be the form of a writ of

The State of Ohio,
county, ss:
To the sheriff [or coroner, as the case may be,] of the county
Greeting:
of

We command you, that you summon A. B., to appear before
the judges of our supreme court, [or judges of our court of com
mon pleas, as the case may be,] at the cOurt house, on the

day of
instant, [or next ensuing,] to answer a peti
tion in chancery, exhibited against him by C. D.; and this he
shall in no wise omit, under the penalty of one thousand dollars;
and have then and there this writ.

Witness, [the honorable E.

F., chief judge, or president judge,] (a) of our said court, at the
court house, this
day of

o. H., clerk of

.

As to proceeding in chancery on a lost negotiable instrument, see ante p. 590, note.
Acourt of chancery will not take jurisdiction when a party or his sureties areinjured
b neglect of the principal to attend to, or properly manage a suit at law; Pollard v.
ollier, 8 O. R., 43; nor where the law has made proper provnsion for the redemption of
land sold for taxes; Bi gerslaﬂet al. v. Lowland et al., 8 O. R., 44; nor where one part
ner, without the know edge or consentof the other, confesses a 'udgment, under a war
rant ofattorney, in the name of the ﬁrm; M060: 0. ‘Battle of 1’ cunt Pleasant, 7 O. R.,
(Part 2,) 175; nor to review and correct the errors ol a court ol law; Spencer v. King, 5
. R., 182; Leiby 11. Parks el al., 4 O. R., 469; Sliver v. Sliver, 3 O. R., 19; nor to com
pensate for damages in consequence of the opening of an alley in a town; Armstrong
o. The City of Cincinnati, 5 0. R , 223; nor relieve lrom the collection of a regular as
sessment; 1d 1b ; nor from the consequences of false evidence which misled a court of

law, unless, as is said, the complainant shows clearly that he had a good defense at law, .
and was prevented from availing himself of it at law, by fraud, or pure accident, with
out any default in himself or his agents; Leiby 1:. Park: at 111., 4 O. R., 469; nor relieve

from a judgment on account of matters which would have been a good delence on the
trial at law; Abbott o. Hughes et (11., 3 O_ R., 278; J'tlcCarty v. Burroughs, 2 0. R., 20;
Reynolds 0. Reynolds, 3 O. R., 268; nor enjoin collecting a tax by distress upon person
al property, assessed in the ordinary way, and unaccompanied by any circumstances
of peculiar injury, even if the law authorizing the tax be unconstitutional: the remedy
being at law.—DIcCoz v. Corporation (J Chillwothe, 3 O. R., 370; 5 0. R., 223. Where,
in an action at law, t e counsel ofa defendant advised that no trial could be had at the
ﬁrst term of the supreme court, in consequence of which the defendant did not attend
court, and his counsel was absent, and judgment was rendered a inst him, it was held
the party7gould not be relieved in chanoery.—Dorﬂinger o. Coil, 0. R., 311. And see
ante
. b . in judgments cannot be corrected in chancery. See ante p. 674, 675, note. '1.
Mildtakes
As to injunctions, in other cases than those above mentioned, see note to 39th sec
tion of this chapter.
The purchaser of land paid a portion of the purchase money, neglected to perform
the contract any further, and brought his action at law to recover back the money paid.
He satisﬁed the jury, upon full defense being made by the seller, that the contract had
been abandoned and put an end to byeléolh parties, and obtained a verdict and judg
ment. In fact, the contract had not
n abandoned ,or put an end to, and the seller,
two years after the rendition of the Judgment, ﬁled his bil in chancery to have the con,

tract enforced. and the Judgment enjomed. It was held by the court, that the matter
had been adjudicated upon at law, and no relief, thereforee, could be obtained in chan
cery. It was said: “Had the present bill been ﬁled during the pendency of the suit at
law, and had no defense been made in that case, this court might, and probably would
have given relief. The seller had a right to elect, and did elect, to make full defense in
that court."—Curlt's et al. v. Cisna’s adm‘rs, 1 O. R., 429.
(a) The words in this writ: “The honorable E. F., chief judge or president judge,“
are repealed. The writ must be tested by the clerk; for which, see ante p. 690.

Which subpoena shall be signed by the clerk, sealed with the
seal of the court, and be tested of the same day on which it
issued.
7. SHOT. VII. Where the complainant shall make several when“ or

defendants to his petition, who reside in ditl'erent counties in this

gfﬂie':

state, the clerk of the court, in which the same is ﬁled, may issue emcoumiesaor

subpccnas into the several counties, in which said defendants are ""Wftﬁlete'

supposed to reside, directed to any proper ofﬁcer therein, who owmnCZ'Lagp'
shall serve and return the same. And in cases where any or
all of the defendants reside out of this state, the complainant
may cause personal service of a subpoena, with a copy of the
petition; or he may cause notice of the pendency of the petition,
containing a summary statement of the object and prayer there
of, to be published six consecutive weeks, in some newspaper
printed in the county where the petition is ﬁled, if there be any,
and if not, in some newspaper printed in this state, of general
circulation in the county. (a)
8. Sam. VIII.

eﬂ'wted

The service of a subpoena, or other process How subpcsna,

for appearance, shall be by delivering a copy thereof to the de- ﬁtéfgzmﬂem'
fendant, or leaving one at his dwelling house, or usual place of and ,service‘in
abode; and the ofﬁcer, or other person serving the same, shall fffggedwﬂglf"
indorse on the original, the time and manner of service.

And def‘tsconsider

when the service is made out of this state, the return shall be all“ mu"
veriﬁed by oath or afﬁrmation; and upon return of service of
the process, or due proof of notice having been given as afore
said, the defendants shall be considered in court. ([1)
(a) The above section remained in force until February 2'3, 1835, when it was rcpt-filed \
and the following passed, to supply itsplace: 33 v. Stat,, 13.
Sec. 4. That when the complainant shall make several defendants to his petition,
who reside in different counties of this state, the clerk of the court in which the same is
ﬁled, may issue subpmnas into the several counties in which said defendants are sup
posed to reside, directed to any proper ofﬁcer therein, who shall serve and return the
same; and in case when the tit \- to, or boundaries oflands, or tent ments, are drawn in
question in chancery, and any or all of the defendants are nonresidents of the state, suits
ma be prosecuted in any county where the land lies; and in all cases where any or all
oft e defendants are nonresitlents of the state, the courts shall direct the manner of
giving notice to the absent defendants.
The act of Feb. 23, 1835, continued in force until March 14, 1838, when the section to
which this note is appended was revived,and the act of Feb. 23, 1835, re aled; for which,

see 74th section of'this chapter. As to opening decrees, where the de endant’s appear
ance has been effected by publication, see 57th section of this chapter.
(b) As 'ro 'rnr: at‘Ltzs asLti'rixo T0 Lis Pastime—When the process is by subpmna,
the suit is commenced and is pendin by the service of the writ upon the party, so as to
charge third persons with notice oft e pendency ofthe suit. And when the defendant
is brought into court by the publication of a notice, and the notice has been duly pub
lished in contormity to the order of the court, the suit is to be considered as commenced
and pending from the time that the ublication is completed, so as to charge third per
sons with notice of the pendency oft e strit, although the proof of the publication is to
be afterwards returned to the court. The urchaser of the subject matter of a suit, at
any time after its commencement and pen ency, as above mentioned, acquires no inter
est, as against the complainant’s'title, whether that title be legal or equitable—Lud
low's heirs v. Kidd el 01., 3 O. R.,54l; Lessee QfBemtct v. Williams, 5 O. R., 461. The
decree of the court binds~ the property in the hands of such purchaser, although he is no
party to the suit, and paid a full price for it, and had, in fact, no notice ofthe pendency
ofthe suit, or the claim ofthe complainant.——1ti. 1b. This rule ofconstructive notice of
the pendency and subject matter of a suit, when there is no notice in fact, does not. in
general, extend beyond the termination ofa suit; and thereforee, a ﬁnal decree is not, by

the general rules of chancery, noticeof the matters in controvers a—Ludlmo's Itet'rs v.
Kid/1 el al., 3 O. R., 541; Turner 1:. Crebill et 01., l t). R., 372.
at see T‘Jd section of
this chapter, and the note thereto.
Where a bill, ﬁled by infants, was dismissed on the ﬁnal hearing, and the decree of dis.

The complainant may insert as many defend

311g:jig-gm ants in his petition as he may think proper, ((1) though they claim
on di'mhimen under different titles; but if any of the defendants disclaim, he
shall pay their costs, except when the court, for special reasons,
may otherwise decree.
‘
Whenthe

10. Snow. X.

In cases where it shall be necessary to make

“Ines Omens the heirs of any decedent, defendants, (b) and the names of all, or
heirs are

unknownmow part of them, are unknown, and the complainant annexes to his

w Proceedpetition an afﬁdavit, of his want of knowledge of the names or
residence of such heirs, proceedings may be had against them,
without naming them, and the court shall make such order in
relation to notice, as they may deem proper.
SECT- XI.
missal was afterwards reversed on a bill of review, it was held that purchasers, after
the decree of dismissal, and before the ﬁling of the bill of review, were notpendente lite
purclmsers—Ludlow‘a licirs v. Kidd el al., 3 O. R.,frll.
_ .
I
An appeal to the supreme court has never been supposed, it is said, to be any thing
other than a proceeding in the ori inal cause, and that a purchaser, after a decree in the
common pleas, was, notwithstan ing the appeal, liable to be aﬁccted by the subsequent

proceedings in the supreme court, should the decree be there altered or reversed.-~1d. I6.
Until the service of a citation upon a writ of error, the writ of error is not to be con
sidercd as a suit pending, so as to affect strangers; for, a writ of error must,in general,
be considered as a new and original suit.—Lessee of Taylor v. Boyd, 3 O. R., 337. See
note to 35th section of this chapter.
7
Judgment was reversed, pending a bill in chancery to Subject land to satisfy it. The
bill was continued in court, and judgment again recovered. A supplemental bill was
then ﬁled to reach the case of the secondjudgment. It was held that an alienation, after
the reversal ofthe judgment, and before the second judgment was rendered, was affec

ted by the pendency of the suit in chancery.'——-Lcssee of lodllard v. Myers,8 O. R., 203.
(a) As 'ro PARTIES—\Vllﬁl'e a bill is ﬁled against heirs, on their nncestor‘s contract,
praying for a decree for lands sold by the ancestor, or compensation if the heirs have not
title, the executor or administrator of the ancestor must be made party defendant.—Dlas
sis et al. v. Donaldson, 8 O. R., 377.

And see ante p. 361, note.

When relicfis sought against the obligations of a bond, all the ohligors must be par
ties complainants, unless in a special case of collusion—Pollard v. Collier, 8 O. R., 43.
Administrators or executors must be made parties complainants upon a bill ﬁled to en
force the speciﬁc performance ofa contract for the execution of a lease—Reynoldx' heirs
v. Com'rs of Stark Co., 5 O. R., 204.
A conveyance in trust, with successive contingent equitable remainders, may be can
celled by a decree in equity, so asto bind the interests of all, thouvh the cestui qua Irusls’,
be not made defendants—Campbell et al. 0. Watson et al., 8 0. IE, 498.
A bill may be ﬁled and decree- tuken against the state, under a special act of the legis
latureauthorizing the same.— Hanipson cl al. v. Slate, 8 O. R., 315.
(b) As T0 INFANT nsrss'mxrs, syn oneness AGAINST THEM.—QMSii0ﬂ.——Wh0lhcr it

is error to proceed without personal service of process upon infantsi~lllaasie at al. v.
Donaldson, 8 O. R., 377.
It may be doubted, it is said, whether a decree can, regularly, be taken against an in
fant, upon the answer, merely, of the guardian ad litcm, wit iout some proof; but it is
clear, and so held, that where no answer is put in, a decree cannot be taken against an
infant by default, but the complainant must prove his case—1d. lb.
lfthe defendant to a billol revivor be a minor,a guardian ad litem must be appointed
for him, who must accept the appointment. The guardian ad lilem must be brought be
fore the court, by his voluntary act, or by rocess It must appear that he had notice
of his a pointmeni—must at leastdo somet ing to signify his acceptance of the up int
ment;

t. Clair's heirs el al. v. Smillt cl al.,3 0. R., 355; and these rules seem to

vap

plicable to bills generally, where there is an infant defendant.-—Ewing’s lessee v. Higby,
7 O. R., (Part 1,) 201. See ante p. 386, note.
The fact that the ancestor has answered the bill, does not dispense with formal proceed
ings against his infant heirs—St. Clair‘s heir: et al. v. Smith 01 al., 3 O. R., 3.35.
A decree that infants shall convey, with warranty, is erroneous. A court ofchancery
cannot decree that infants make covenants—1d. Ib.
\
(0) Repealed by the 74th, and supplied b the 72d section of this chapter. It was as
follows: “In cases where the title to, or oundurics of land, or contracts concerning
lands or tcpemcnts, are drawn in question in chancery, and any or all of the defendants
are nonresidents ofthe state, suit may be prosecuted in any county where the land lies,
and the court shall direct the mannsrof giving notice to the absent defendants."

11. SECT. XII. - \Vhen either party shall have been called on How answer to

for a discovery under oath, and the facts as to which the dis- “b‘nomlsc‘w'

erymaybeused

covery is prayed, are afterwards submitted to a jury,_the answer
put in as to such facts, shall be laid before the jury, in the same \
manner as in issues directed to be tried at law by a court of
chancery.
SECT. XIII. (a)

12. Seer. XIV.

Any person having the legal title and pos- P_ersons having

session of lands, may ﬁle a petition against any other person set- ngzioznifpﬁzd
ting up a claim thereto; and if the complainant establishes his may compel
title to said lands, the defendant shall be decreed to release his $523222?"

claim, and to pay the complainant his costs, unless the defend- disclaim. Costs

ant, in his answer, shall disclaim all title or claim to such lands, in “chm”
and offer to give such release to the complainant; in which case
the complainant shall pay to the defendant his costs, except for
special reasons, the court shall otherwise decree. (b)
13. SECT. XV. WVhen a suit at law, for the recovery of In what were

money or damages, for any cause of action which would survive ﬂailfﬁgg'e‘
to or against the personal representative of the plaintifff or de- judgment of
fendant,
speciﬁc sum
or whenever
of moneyaorsuit
damages,
in chancery,
shall beforpending
the recovery
in either
of of
a ry a nine} per
the courts aforesaid against a nonresident defendant, or against fagsef‘r’elggg or
a resident defendant, who has, during the pendency of said suits, owing his debt

either secretly departed out of the jurisdiction of the court, °"
l(la) Repealed by the 74th and supplied by the 72d sections of this chapter. It was as
f0 ows:
“ SEC. 13. In all suits in chancery, which may be brought for the foreclosure or re
demption of any mortgage, or for the foreclosure or speciﬁc performance ofany contract
in writing, for the sale or encumbrance of any real estate, and the real estate described in
such mortgage or contract in writing, shall lie in different counties in this state, the com
plaintint may ﬁle his ‘petition in the su reme court or common pleas, in either of the
counties in which sue real estate ma
situated, and the court shall proceed therein;
and any order, interlocutory or ﬁnal ecree made in such suit,shall be enforced by pro
cess, directed to the sheriff or other oﬂicer of an county, in which any art ofsaid real
estate is situated: provided, that any decree ren ered in any such suit s all not operate
in any other countv than the one in which it is rendered, as notice, except where a certi

ﬁed copy of it shall be recorded in the recorder‘s ofﬁce.“
(b) BILLS 'ro QUXET TITLE, &c.-—The complainant must set forth and prove actual pos

session. A purchaser at sheriff’s sale, and in actual possession. may proceed under this
section against a person who holds by fraudulent conveyance from the judgment debtor.
-—Hitbbard v. Clark, 8 0. R., 382. '
When a bill is ﬁled by a arty in possession, to enjoin a judgment in cjectment, and to
quiet the title, the court wi 1, under proper circumstances, and where a boundary has been
“11101 litigated, and different verdicts rendered, direct a retrial 0f the action of ejcctmcni,
as an original issue ordered by the COIH'L—POI'IFT v. Robb 0801.,7 O. R., (Part 1,) 206.
The words in the statute, “setting up a claim thereto," includes the settin u a claim to
dispose of the title. Therelorc, an injunction run he allowed, to stay s an e or taxes on
city lots, assessed by a town. under proceedings i egalaml void, but nevertheless, under
legal color; for, the court will interfere by injunction to prevent a cloud from being cast
npona title, by a void sale, under color of legal proceedings—Hume! v. Corporation of
Cincinnati, 3 O. R., 73. For the same reason, the court will en'oin a sale 11 on execu
tion, where such sale would not,at law, confer a title on the pure risen—Baal: U. States
v. Shultz, 2 O._R., 471—495. See ante p. 699, note.
If a complement, who seeks aconveysnce from the elder patentee on account of n ur
amount equity, has no_ patent when the bill is ﬁled, he will be entitled to a decree. i ' he
have a ment at the time of the hearing of the cause—Parker v. Wallace, 30. R., 490.
A bi] of peace, relatin to personal ropert , cannot, in general, be sustained, unless
the right has been cstablis ed at law.
hen, however, it is necessary to bring into court
different interests and the parties thereto,und thus prevent litigation, and a multiplicity
of suits, it is said, such bill maybe prosecuted, without ﬁrst establishing a right at law.
—- [nine 1'. [mar]! st (11., 4 0.11, 77.

or secreted himself or property within the same, so that the
ordinary process of law cannot be served on either, and there
should be any person or persons, resident within such jurisdic
tion, who is or are indebted to, or has in possession goods and
chattels, rights, credits, monies or effects, belonging to such non
resident, or secreting defendant, the said plaintifff at law, or

complainant in chancery, may ﬁle a petition against the person
or persons so indebted, or having in his possession the goods and
chattels, rights, credits, monies or effects of such nonresident,

or secreting defendant, annexing an afﬁdavit of the truth of the
allegations therein contained, and of the amount of the debt or
damages by him claimed; and the court may, in their discretion,

enjoin such other person or persons from paying over, convey
ing away, or secreting such debts by him owing to said nonresi
dent, or secreting defendant, or his goods and chattels, rights,
credits, monies or effects, until the ﬁnal judgment at law, or de
cree in chancery, can be had in such tOrmer cause. And the
court, on ﬁnal hearing, shall make such ﬁnal order or decree be
In what cases
and how he _
may proceed in
chancery, for
the like purpose
after judgment
or decree, and
also against
equities,stocks.
- \

tween the parties, as they shall think just and equitable.
14. Sscr. XVI. In all cases where judgments at law, or de
crees in chancery, have been obtained and rendered against any
erson, and the debtor has not personal or real estate, subject to
evy on execution, sufficient to satisfy said judgment or decree,
but has any equitable interests in real estate, as mortgagor,
mortgagee, or otherwise; or, any interest, shares, or stock, in
any banking, turnpike, bridge, or other joint stock company; or,
any judgments or decrees, or any money, contracts, dcb'ts, or
choses in action due to him, or which may become due; or,

monies, goods, and effects, in the hands or possession of any
person, body politic or corporate; the same may be subjected in
chancery, to the payment of said judgment or decree. And ap
plications may be made to the courts of chancery, in the ‘county
where such judgment or decree was rendered, or where said
lands lie, to subject any or all of the hereinbefore enumerated
interests, to the payment of the judgment or decree aforesaid,
according to the usual course of proceeding, and known usages
of courts of chancer '; and the said courts shall decree sales, and

enforce all necessary transfers and conveyances, to vest in any
person purchasing, or taking under such decree, all the right, title,
and interest of the said debtor, in the interests sold, or the sub
ject of the decree, at the time of the service of process in such
case, to be held in the same manner such debtor held the same:

provided, that the sale of all equitable interests in realestate

shall be conducted, in all respects, in the same manner as is pro
vided by law, for the sale of real estate, in the “act regulating
judgments and executions.” (a)
(a) Pnocrrnmss m: CREDITORS AGAINST 'rmstn DEBTURS, 8.30., TO nsacn rotu'rirs, &c.
-—Execution need not be taken out on the judgment, it it otherwise upptar that the
'udgmciit debtor had not eﬂ'ects to satisfy the judgment; and, it is said. such bill may
e sustained upon general principles, independent of the statute, if the effects are so con
nected With trusts and equities, and involve such a variety of interests. that adequate
remedy cannot be had at law—Pint! v.81. Cluir‘: heirs, 6 O. R.. 227; Gilmun 11. Miami

15. Scar. XVII. The defendant shall ﬁle his plea, demur- Pleas and an
rer, or answer to the petition, in the clerk’s ofﬁce of the court :zﬁrsg‘g’g? to
where the cause is pending, in sixty days next after the term be ﬁled.
to which process is returned, served, or to which the defend

ant has been notiﬁed to appear, unless the court allow fur
ther time.

And if the plea, demurrer, or answer, shall not be \Vhen petition

ﬁled as aforesaid, the petition shall be taken as confessed by the

'18 dwn

defendant; and the Court may thereupon decree, or, in its dis- proofs'g‘ﬁd d8.

cretion, require the production of proof from the complainant, main “1°11
or examine him under oath, touching the premises, causing the m'
examination to be reduced to writing, and ﬁled with the papers
Exporting Comp my, 2 O. R. 294. But where there are no such conﬂicting interests and
trusts, a proceeding under the statute, it is said, is only to be resorted to in cases of
necessity.—“'1‘hat necessity ought to be apparent, to give jurisdiction to the court.
Whether the facts upon which ihejurisdiction of the court depends, must be speciﬁcally
stated in the bill, or not, there has been, and was," (in 1827,) “a diversity of opinion

among the members of the court. But, it is presumed, there can be but one opinion,
whether the facts must not be fullymade out at the hearing, in order to sustain the
bill."—Hubbel v. Perrin et al., 3 U. ., 287.
_
A court of chancery will not lend its aid to subject the separate property of a partner
to the ayment of partnership debts, while the joint property of the ﬁrm is unexhausted.
—-Id.
See ante p, 355.
_
In a suit in chaiicery against a surety in a bond of indemnity, ﬁled by the obliges,
to subject an equitable estate in lands to payment, the record 01 a 'udgmcnt rendered
in a sister state, against the principal obligor of the bond, is prima cie evidence that
the bond was made by the rinci l, and that its condition was broken; also, of the
amount of damages sustain by t e obliges—Blaan v. Clapp'a heirs, 8 O. R., 248.
Where one has it lies upon two feuds, and a. third person has a posterior lien upon
only one of the two funds the person having both liens will be com lled, by a court
of cliancery, to assert his claim upon the sub'ect of his exclusive lien
fore proceeding
upon the otlier.—Piall v. St. Clair": heirs, O. R., 227; Bank of Diuan um 11. Car
penter‘s adm’rs d 111., 7 O. B., (Part 1,) 21. But a court of chancery wi not require
a judgment creditor to proceed against a fund manifestly not liable to satiséy his judg
ment.-—Bank U. Slates u. Skulls, 3 0- R., 61.—-Or. after the fund has alrea
been ap
plied in good faith by the debtor or creditor.-Bank of Miukingum v. arpeulsr’r
adm'rs st (11., 7 O. R., (Part 1,) 2l.
A bill was ﬁled to subjectan equitable estate in lands to the payment ofajudgment,
all

ing that the defendant had purchased and paid for the land, but refused to take a

doe therefore, with a view of keeping it out of the reach of creditors. It appeared from
the answer that the defendant occupied the land by the permission of the owner, under
a parol agreement, that the occupation should continue durin the lifetime of the re~
spondent. The court held, that the facts made out a case so di erent from that stated
in the bill, as to render it impossible to give relief, in any form, under the bill.— Wag
goner o. Speck elal., 3 O. H., 292.
Where a creditor proceeds under this section against persons who owe his debtor,
and marshals an unreasonable amount 0f debts, the 'udgment debtor may apply to the
court to compel the complainant to select the claims e will proceed against, and in de

fault of his making such selection, the court will determine what claims shall be pro
ceeded upon, rind discharge the residue. If no such application be made, all the defen
dants will remain bound. If, pendin the suit, the summoned debtors make payment
to thejudgment debtor, they may sti l he made liable to the complainant; he who last
paid being ﬁrst liable. Ifone ofa ﬁrm be omitted as defendant, and he pays the part

nership debt to the judgment debtor, it will not affect the claim of the complainant
against the ﬁrm, unless the matter be regularly pleaded in abatement—Gilmore et al.
v. Dliami Bonk, st 111., 3 O. R., 502. For the form ofa decree in such cases, see Id. 16.
If A. assigns ajudgment to B., and B. assigns it to C., it seems the assignment to B. '
must be shown to have been fraudulent and void, as against the creditors of A., before
the rights of C. can be affected by the creditors of A., even if the assignment to C. was,
in fact, fruudulent.—Dou Ian 1:. Huston st 01., 6 O. R , 156.
Hoffman sold land to . and gave him a title bond. Carlisle had a judgment against
U. and caused an execution to issue, which was levied on this land. U. then died, de

vising the land to S. Carlisle afterwards purchased the land on his execution and took
possession under the sheriff‘s deed One Douglass then obtained a judgment a inst
Carlisle, and, under it, purchased the land and took possession. Corlisle was inso vent.
One Huston. afterwards, with a full knowledge of all these facts, purchased of S., the

devisee of U., who had squandered the estate of U ., his interest in the land—ﬁled a bill
in chancery against Hoffman, and obtained the legal title, by a decree—purchased and
obtained an assignment of the above mentioned judgment against U. in favor of Car

Issue may be
taken on plea.

Demurrer ﬁrst
disposed of.


in the cause, and thereupon make such ﬁnal, or other decree, as
to them shall seem just and equitable. (a)
16. Snow. XVIII. When a plea is ﬁled, and the complainant
conceives the same to be good, though not true, he may reply,
and take issue upon it, and proceed as in case of answer.
17. Seen XIX.

If the defendant ﬁle a demurrer and answer,

the complainant shall not proceed on the answer till the demur
rer has been argued or disposed of.
lisle—brought an action of ejectment against Douglass, and obtained possession of the
land. Douglass then ﬁled his bill in chancery against Huston and others, seekin to
sub'ect the estate of Carlisle, and the estate oi the above named parties, in the land,
.,
to t e payment of his jud ment against Carlisle, 6m.
It was held: 1. That arlisle obtained no interest in the land by his purchase, and
that, thereforee, Douglass obtained nothing by his purchase, it being butan equitable ee

tate. 2. Ifthejudgment of Douglass against Carlisle is subsisting and due, the 'udg
ment of Carlisle against U. is also subsisting and due. Carlisle being insolvent, oug
lass had a right to proceed against a debtor ofCarlisle to obtain satistaction ofhis 'udg
ment against Carlisle. Such a debtor to Cnrlisle is U., and Douglass should be ai ed in
chancery, to thus obtain satisfaction from U., as a debtor ot'Carlisle, by subjecting the
equitable estate which U. had in this land to the payment ofthcjudgment, were it not

that Huston had obtained_an assignment of the judgment ofCarlisle against U. 3.
Douglass acquired no lien in equity upon the judgment due by U. to Carlisle, until he
ﬁled is bill, and Huston having, prior to that time, an assignment of the judgment,
has the elder equity, which is preferred—Douglas: v. Huston (t al , 60. R., 156.
(a) As TO A DEMURRER.—If a defendant is bound to answer any art of a bill, a de
murrer thereto, bein entire and to the whole bill. must be overrule .—Carter 0. Long
worth at al., 40. R., 84. Therefore, ifa bill is ﬁled by a purchaser from a mortgagor,
to be relieved from the mortgage, &c., and the bill avers that the mortgagee knew that
the complainant was making improvements on the premises, “yetjraudulenll_ con
cealed from the complainant the fact, that, at that time, he held a mortgage," c., a
demurrer thereto is bad—Id. Ib.
_ As to ma “swam—New matter, introduced into the answer and not respon
sive to any allegation in the bill, will be disregarded, unless supported by proof.—
Brown v. Cutler et al., 8 O. R., 142.
Matter that may be set up b plea, may, in general, be set up by answer.—- W'Iiite a.
Bank of U. Slates, 6 0. R., 52%; Stroller 'v. Byrd’s heirs et al., 7 O. R., (Part 1,) 186.

When the answer admits (being res onsive to the bill) that respondent reoeiveda cer
tain sum of money, and then, in avoi ance of any claim on that account. sets up new

matter, to wit: that the claim for the money was afterwards settled and liquidated; it
was held, that the respondent must prove such new matter, in order to avmd the effect
of the admission—Harris v. Carlisle et al., 7 U. R., 'Part 2,) 144.
_Where a bill sets up that a former suit, relating to the same matter, was dismissed,

Without any investigation as to the subset matter of the second bill, the defendant must
plead or answer, and not demur to sue second bill, if he intends to set up the dismis
sal as, in fact, a disposition of the subject matter of the second MIL—Ferguson et al., c.
All?” et 111.65 0. R., 459.
d
h
I aﬁled
seconfor mortgagee,
or ﬁrst
er tomortgage,
postpone that
a prior
e, sets up was
in obtained
is answer by
to
a bill
a sale upon in
the
themor
ﬁrgargnortgage
fraud, he shall not, it seems, be permitted to rel upon proof that the ﬁrst mortgage has,
in fact, been id.-P¢tine a. French at 01-, 4 0. it“ 318.
_

It' the administrators of an intestate deny, by their answer, the allegations in the hill,
the allegations must be proved.— Wilson v. Delaracli el al., 3 O R.,
.
_
When the answer denies all the material averments in the bill, and the testimony is
vague, contradictory, and does not disprove the answer, the bill will be dismisse .—
Lac: 0. Gamrd‘l' adm‘rs, 2 O. R. 7.
,
That part of an answer to a bill of discovery which contains new matter, and which
is not necessarily connected with, or explanatory ol' the subject matter of the bill, can
not be read by the respondent, as evidence, upon the trial at law—Methodist Church
d-c. a. W'ood, 5 O. R 283.
Elvidence will not, in general, be received, upgri a matter not put in issue. But, it is
said, “the important question is what shall
said to be put in issue. It is the con
stant_practice of this court to consider any fact that is distinctly averred in the plead
ings, 1 it be relevant to the matter in controversy, as being in issue, and susceptible of
proof- If any material avermeiit in the bill be not answered by the delendant, the com
plainant has his_election, to except and requires further answer. or to proceed and take
on nirnselﬁthe risk of sustaining the matter by testimony. Allegations, therelore, in
the bill, neither admitted nor denied by the answer, must, in general, be proved by the
complamsnt."—McArtI|ur v. Thomas 4 al., 2 O. R., 415, 423.

18. sac-r. XX. If the plea or demurrer be overruled, no other Plea,
over
ruled, decree
plea or demurrer shall be thereafter received; but the complain pro
confesso, or
ant’s petition may be taken as confessed, and the court shall answer receiv
proceed to decree thereon; or, in their discretion, they may re ed on afﬁdavit

ceive an answer, on afﬁdavit of merits, and that such plea or of merits, &c.
demurrer was not filed for the purpose of delay. (a)
'
19. SECT. XXI. If the plea or demurrer be allowed, the com Costs on lea,
plainant shall pay costs; and if overruled, the defendant shall 819-. by w orn
paid.
pay them.
20. SECT. XXII. The complainant shall ﬁle his exceptions, Replication or
or a replication, within thirty days after the time limited for exceptions,
when to be ﬁled
ﬁling an answer, if such answer be ﬁled in time; or, on fail~

Effect of not

ure thereof, such cause shall stand for hearing on petition and ﬁling.
answer. (b)
21. Seer. XXII]; If the exceptions of the complainant be Costs upon ex
b
overruled, he shall pay costs to the defendant; and if the de ceptions,
whom pai .
fendant’s answer be adjudged insufﬁcient, he shall pay costs to
the complainant.
22. SECT- XXIV. When an answer shall be adjudged insuf If answer in
, when
ﬁcient, the defendant shall ﬁle a second or further answer, with sufﬁcient
second tobe
ﬁled.
Effect
of
in thirty days after such adjudication.or within such further time
not ﬁling se
as the court may direct; and on failure thereof, the said petition cond
answer.
shall be taken as confessed, and such proceedings be had thereon,
as if the ﬁrst original answer had not been ﬁled within the limit
ed or granted time.
23. Seer. XXV. If such second or further answer shall be Remedy 0f
if sec
adjudged insufﬁcient, the defendant shall pay double costs; and, comp't
ond answer in
in such case, further time to answer shall not be allowed, but sufﬁcient
the said petition shall be taken as confessed, and such proceed
ings be had thereon. as if the ﬁrst or original answer had not
been ﬁled in due time; or the defendant may be examined upon

interrogatories, and committed until he shall answer and pay
costs.

94. SECT. XXVI. Every defendant may swear or afﬁrm to
his answer, before any judge, justice of the peace, master com
missioner in chancery, or in any court of record in this state.
25. Seer. XXVI]. Where it is necessary for the defendant
to bring a new party before the court, he shall state it in his
answer, and insert interrogatories for him to answer; and there
upon a subpcnna shall be sent out, and other proceedings be had,
as in case of other defendants.
26. SECT. XXVIll. The defendant in chancery, after he shall
have ﬁled his answer, may exhibit interrogatories to the com—
plainant, which shall be answered by him on oath or afﬁrmation;

Before whom
defendant may
swear to un
swer.
How defendant
may make new
parties to the
cause.

and such answer shall be evidence in the cause, in the same
manner, and to the same effect, as the defendant’s answer to the

Answers there.

(a) When a demurrer is overruled, the court will not, in eneral, permit the defend

ant to answer, without afﬁdavit, unless by consent of comp ainant.-Manley v. Him!
e! 111., 1 0. R., 257.
(b) As to the effect of proceeding to a bearing upon bill and answer only, see 31st
section of this chapter.

When def ‘t
may put inter
rogatories to
comp’t.
to evrdence;

--How answers complainant’s petition is evidence; and if the complainant shall
enfmcednot answer such interrogatories by the time appointed by the
court, he shall be in contempt, and his petition dismissed with
costs.


When cm,
bill ‘0 be “1'

27. Seer. XXIX. If a cross petition shall be ﬁled by any
defendant, he must put in his answer to the ﬁrst petition, before

meted“

the defendant to the cross petition shall be compelled to answer.

Rules b con28. SECT. XXX.

All rules, common or special, by consent of

"6"“ W e"

the parties or their counsel, shall be entered of course with the

entered. clerk, whether .in term time
or in
vacation.

Costs ofa~
mndmems29. SECT. XXXI. All amendments shall be made with or
without costs, and on such equitable terms as the court shall
direct.
Pan-law) take
30. SECT. XXXII. Parties to suits in chancery shall take

notice of ﬁlin notice, at their peril, of the filing of answers, demurrers, pleas,
gligéi‘ei: “'1 replications, and other pleadings, and of the pronouncing and
Signing decrees.
_
On hwing on
31. Sacr- _XXXIII. If a complainant proceed to a hearing,
billand 111"" on the

etition and answer only, the answer shall be taken to

gg‘gggg‘ﬂim be true in all points; and no evidence shall be received to con
truemnlesséw tradict the same, unless it be matter of record to which the
answer refers, and is proveable by the said record.
Cause is m is.
32- Sacr. XXXIV. Every chancery cause shall be consid
Bpe on repliw- ered at issue on ﬁling a replication, and it shall not be necessary

mn‘

to enter a rule to rejoin in any cause. (a)

Issues out of
33. SEcr. XXXV. If there be an issue as to any matter of
ﬁlming“ at: fact, which shall render the intervention of a jury necessary, the
fwtorwdm courts are hereby authorized to direct an issue for the trial of

the same; and the verdict shall be entered of record, and made
use of at the hearin of the cause.
SECT. XXX I. (b)
Decrees to Ope321%.;

34-81501“. XXXVII.

The decree of either of the said courts

sitting in chancery, shall, from the time of their being pronounced,
‘ have the force, operation and eﬂ'ect of a judgment at law. (0)
(a) As to an agreement of the parties in relation to the them—Where a bill is ﬁled to
enjoin the defen am from selling upon execution certain lands in the ssession of the
com lainant, and in the agreed case, facts are stated in relation to at er property, not

speciﬁed in the bill, the court will- not. if the defendant objects, decide respecting any
other property than that stated in the bill.—Bank United States v. Shullz, 3 O. R., 61.

(6) Related to the mode of making it the records by the clerk. Repealed and sup
lied by 69th and 74th sections of this 0 a ter. The act of February 23, 1835, (33 v.
get“ 13,) also related to this subject, an was repealed by the 74th section of this

0 apier.
(6) Land ordered in chancery to be sold must be ap raised,nnd sold subject to the
up misement, as upon executions at law, even where tie decree is made to satisf the
be ance of purchase money due the seller of the land.— Wiles et al. v. Baylor, 1 . R.,
509.

As To nscnsss GENERALLY.——A decree rescinding a contract of purchase, and direct
ing the purchase money to be refunded,a.nd leaving the purchaserin unconditional pos
session of the premises is erroneous, and will be reversed upon writ of error.-—— Waters
at al. v. Lemma, 4 O.
229.
If matters of account are set up in the hill and answer, as the foundation of a trust,
and thethe
court
make
decree
without re Eulair‘s
rd to hairs
the account.
and without
ac
count,
decree
Wllla be
reversed—St.
a al. v. Smith
a a1., 3taking
O. R., an
355.

35. Sacr. XXXVIII. When a decree shall be made for a
conveyance, release, or acquittance, in either of said courts, sit
ting as a court of chancery, and the party against whom the
said decree shall pass, does not comply therewith by the time
appointed, then such decree shall be considered and taken in all
courts of law and equity, to have the same operation and effect,
and be as available as if the conveyance, release, or acquittance,

had been executed conformany to such decree. (a)
It is said that a decree is not less erroneous that it has not 0 rated to the prejudice
of an onIe. J'g‘harefore, a decree, that infants shall convey with)0warranty, will be re
ver .— d
.
Where, by decree, a bond was directed to be executed and delivered within a certain
time by the complainant to the defendant, and the bond was made and delivered to the
clerk of the court, instead ofthe defendant, within the time prescribed; on motion, at a

subsequent term, the court enlarged the time for the pertormunce of the decree—Baird
u. Shepherd, 2 O. R., 262.

lfthe court is equally divided in pipinion upon_ the question of relief, the bill must be
distttisscd.— W'uddle d a]. 0. Bank
Slates, 2 O. R., 339.
The doctrine ofcompensation, abatement and modiﬁcation is this: The complainant
asks for a decree, and it may be granted to him upon terms: he may be told that he
shall take less or give more than the terms of the contract specify, but at his option; for,
the court cannot tell the complainant that he shall takeless or give more, as that would
give him no option—Cousin et al- v. Graham, 2 O. R., 339.
Upon a bill to carry into execution a former decree, the court will not, in general, ex
amine into thejustice of the decree, or its law. Cases, it is said, have occurred in courts
of chancery of other countries, in which this rule has been relaxed, to correct mistakes
discovered from an examination into the proofs originally taken in the cause, or the
directions given—Em et al. v. Strong 2! al., 2 0. R., 401.
As TO A DISCONTINUANCE arm DISMISSAL—It is dangerous to discontinucin chancery,
if the complainant intends to again proceed by a new bill. In such case, he should have
his bill dismissed without prejudice—French's hair: 1:. French at al., 8 t). R.,214.
A bill was ﬁled by the purchaser of land to procure a deed. The seller was ready to
convey, bttt a portion of the purchase money was not paid. The bill was dismissed,
generally; and, it seems, on account of the nonpayment of the purchase money.

The seller then brought ejectment,and obtained possession of the land. The purchaser then
ﬁled a new bill to procure a deed, averting tender of the purchase mone . and readiness
to pay, &c.~ It was held, that the dismissal was a bar to future procee ings, and could
not be avoided by investigating the grounds upon which the court dismissed the ﬁrst
bill. It is said, “the rights of the parties were before the court upon the ﬁrst hill, and
all were investigated. and the com lainant must abide by the shape in which he chose
to submit them. Like a bill to re eem a men ge, ifit be dismissed without reserva
tion, for the nonpayment oi the money within t e ttme limited, it is a ﬁnal decree, and
works a foreclosure, because it concludes all rights.“— Wilcox v. Balgcr, 6 O. R., 406.
A decree of dismissal in the court ofcommon pleas, although pronounced as a matter
of form, the parties understandin that the cause was to be appealed to thc supreme
court, and there repared for a full investigation, is ﬁnal and conclusive upon the rights
of the parties, if t 10 appeal is not consummated.— lVltite v. Bank U. Stales, 6 0. R., 528.
(a) Dscttsss son coxvsnrvcs or Larva—Previous to the act of February 19. 1810,
which took elfect May 1, 1810, (Chase, 685,) all decrees in chancery, rendered by the

courts of this state were to be enforced by ac uestrution or execution. By the 41st sec
tion of the act of February 19, 1810, the provisions of the section to which this note is
appended were adopted, nttd have continued in the statutes to the present time. This
provision does not divest the court of the power to enforce the execution of a deed by
attachment for contempt.——.Randall v. Pryor, 4 O. R., 424

If no conveyance has been made in pursuance of a decree, its reversal, as between
the parties, divests the title, and reinvests it in the person in whom it was before the
decree—Lessee of Taylor v. Boyd 3 O. R., 337.
If the time limited in the decree for the execution of the deed has trans ired, (and so
the decree- become an absolute title,) and the party, thus invested with tlie title, after
wards sclls and conveys the land. in good faith before a citation on error is served, a
reversal of the decree will not affect the title of the innocent purchaser.—Id. Ib.
A decree, in the absence of any statute on the subject, is not notice to a subsequent
purchaser.—Tumer v. Crebill rt 01., 1 O. R., 372. See 72d section of this chapter, and
note thereto.
A decree of the circuit court of the United States, made in that court, sitting for the
district of Ohio, directing the conve ance‘of lands, does not operate as such conveyance,
under the laws of Ohio.—~Leuc¢ of Itepltcrd v. Com‘rl of Ron Co., '70. R., (Part 1,) 2’71.

Decree for a
conveyance to

operate as a
conveyance.

Writs of no
exeat,by vi hom

and when, and
how allowed;

—When such
writ may be
discharged.
Injunction to
stay waste, or
proceedings at
w b whom

maid.
Injunction to
stay proceed
ings at law—a
mount in dis
pute—to nu
thorize allow
ance—the peti
tion and jurat
——security b
complainant.

36. Sscr. XXXIX. The supreme court, or any judge there
of, and the court of common pleas, or any president judge
thereof, shall have power to grant writs of ne exeat, to prevent
the departure of any defendant out of this state, until security
is given to perform the decree; and writs of ne exeat shall be
allowed, at the discretion of the supreme court, in term time, or
any judge thereof, in vacation; or, of the court of common pleas,
in term time, or any president judge thereof, in vacation, upon
petition ﬁled, with an afﬁdavit annexed of the truth of the alle
gations: and if said writ be granted, the court or judge shall di
rect to be indorsed thereon, in what amount security shall be
given to the complainant.
37. Sscr. XL. 1f the defendant shall, by his answer, satisfy
the court that there is no reason for his restraint, or give suiti‘
cient security to perform the decree, the writ may be discharged.
38. Sscr. XLl. The supreme court, or any judge thereof,
and the court of common pleas, or any president judge thereof,
shall have power to grant writs of injunction to stay waste; and
either of said courts, or any judge thereof, shall have power to
grant writs of injunction, to stay the proceedings before or after
judgment, of any of the courts of law.
39. SECT. XLlI. No injunction shall be allowed by the su
preme court, or any judge thereof, to stay proceedings at law,
before or after judgment, unless the matter in dispute be of suf
ﬁcient value to give original jurisdiction to the court of common
pleas; and no injunction shall be allowed by the court of com
mon pleas, or any judge thereof, in such cases, unless the matter
in dispute be of the value of twenty dollars; and, in either case,

the petition shall show good cause in equity for such injunction,
and be veriﬁed by afﬁdavit; and, with the allowance, the court

or judge shall direct the amount in which security shall be given
by the complainant. (a)
(a) INJL'NL‘TIONS AND ixiexc'riox nexus—See also ante p. 699, 700, 703, note.
The condition of a bond, given upon the allowance of an injunction to sta waste,
may cover as well the costs of the original bill, as damages arising from the efendsnt
bging prevented from proceeding in the matter enjoined —Kent at al. v. Bit-roe, 6 O. R.,
3 6.
Where an injunction bond is given, and the court afterwards order the injunction to
be continued, “the complainant givinvfurlher bond," 62.0. and a detective bond, condi
tioned for the payment of costs on y, is given, the ﬁrst end will not thereby be dis
charged—Kent v. Bierce, 7 O. R., (Part 2,) 2'09; But if the order ofthe court he to give
a new bond, in place of, and as a substitute for the first one, and it is done, the ﬁrst bond
is discharged—Km! et al. v. Bierce st 01., 6 O. R., 336.
An injunction to restraina. mere trespass, is not, in general, allowed, unless the
property upon which the injury is committed, would be destroyed by repeated acts of
trespass, and is of a peculiar value that will not admit of common law recompense.—
'I‘hercfore, the keeper of a ferry across the Ohio river, from the Virginia to the Ohio
shore, who lands passengers upon the premises of the keeper of a terry on the Ohio
shore, is a mere trespasscr, whom a court of chancery will not restrain by an injunc
tion—Ross v. Page, 6 U R., 166.
It seems a court of chancer may restrain b injunction the doin of an act from
which irreparable injury may e done to indivi uals or to the public. gl‘he supervisor of
roads is not the proper person to claim an injunction to prevent the obstruction of a
road within his district.—Putmm v. Valentine et al., 5 O. R., 187.
9 (3Klklnjlllqn7cllon operates from the time process is served—Ramadall v. Craighill el al.
If an injunction is allowed to stay execution at law, and bond is given, it is pro
gorJthﬁ slkarjffto restore the chattels levied upon to the owner.—Lenee quicbee v. Hal ,

40. Seer. XLIII. No injunction shall operate to stay pro- Suchinjunc
ceedings at law, before or after judgment, until the party obtain
ing the same, shall give bond, with sufﬁcient security, to be given;—condi

approved by the clerk of the court granting such injunction, in Li°nd°f 811;"
the amount required by the court or judge allowing the same,
for the payment of all monies and costs due, or to become due,
from the complainant, in such suit or judgment at law, and all
monies and costs which shall be decreed against him, in case
such injunction shall be dissolved; and, on the execution of the
bond as aforesaid, the clerk shall indorse on the subpcnna, “Injunction allowed and bail given,” and sign his name thereto;

and in no case shall it be necessary to issue the writ of injunc

pfgvgl
my:

was:

7w!“ °f in
321°
ellvwww in

W "b'

tion.
41. Sizer. XLIV. In all cases where an injunction may be Decree with
hereafter allowed, to stay proceedings at law, in an action for Penlllilyv 5w"
recovery
and dismissal
of money
of theonly,
petition
uponin the
the dissolution
court of common
of the injunction,
pleas, the "Elwin-ism“?
p193.
court shall render a decree in favor of the respondent, (plaintifff mils $95,522,;

at law,) for the debt or damages, interest and costs recovered at
law; and, also, for the interest and costs accruing in chancery,

together With ﬁve per centum penalty on the amount of debt or
damages, and the interest which may have accrued. (a)
'
42. Snc'r. XLV. If the complainant shall appeal from the -—Ou appeal to
decree rendered in the court of common pleas, to the supreme fgllzegﬁemzm
court, in any case speciﬁed in the foregoing section, and the said decree for pén.

injunction shall be dissolved, and petition dismissed in said su- gljli°'&.&°vifd
reme court, they shall render a decree for the debt or damages,

“muse '

interest and costs, which were recovered at law; also, for the

interest and costs, which may have accrued in the court of com
mon pleas, and supreme court, together with ten per centum
penalty on the debt or damages, and interest accrued, in favor of
the respondent.
43. Sam". XLVI.

When a sheritl', or other officer, has re- Money receiv

of
ceived
which,
theany
whole,
execution
or anyhaspart
issued,
of the
andmoney,
the person
for the
against
collection
whom repaid by him,
such execution has issued, his executors or administrators, shall Lilj‘ﬂa‘ﬁedmg'
‘

\thre a bill to cn'oin ajudgment or several judgments, sets out several jud ments
rendered in favor of iﬂ'erent persons, a decree “that said defendants be erpetua ly en
joined from further proceedings on said judgment,“ is too uncertain to e operative.—
Bou v. Gilmore, 3 O. R., 63.
A second injunction, for the same cause, upon new matter, cannot be allowed, unless
the new matter did not exist at the time the ﬁrst bill was ﬁled, or, if it did exist, was

unknown to the complainant.—Bank U. States v. Slmllz, 3 t). R., 61.
(a) If an injunction is dissolved at one term, and the bill afterwards dismissed at a
subsequent term, the defendant will be entitled to the statutory penalty.——-Lcwi.v_v. Sut

lilr fl 111" 3 0- R“ 60- It is said, this provision ofthe law is in contemplation of a file
solution of the injunction, and a. dismissal of the bill, at the same time.

\Vhere the

injunction is dissolved during the pendency of the suit, and the bill retained, full effect
is necessarily given to the judgment at law. When a ﬁnal decree is passed. dismissing
the bill, if the judgment is then also continued in operation, the decree becomes simply
agculrpulative security for the payment of the debt, which can be but once collected.—
.

)

Where the injunction was dissolved, the cause continued, and the complainant after

wards paid a portion of the judgment, and the hill was afterwards dismissed, it was
held, that a decree might be taken for the amount then due,nnd the statutory penalty
on that balance, With accumulating interest and costs, at law and in chancery.—lrl. I .

obtain an injunction to stay the proceedings under such execu
tion, the sheriff, or other ofﬁcer, shall repay tothe person against
whom such execution issued, his executors, administrators, or

-—-If he refuses,
may be amet
ced.

attorney of record, the money so received, or such part thereof
as may be enjoined, retaining sufﬁcient to pay the costs to be
collected by the execution, provided the money has not been
paid over to the plaintifff, his attorney of record, or his executors
or administrators.
‘
44. SECT. XLVII. If any sheriff, or other officer, shall fall or
refuse, on demand made by the complainant, his executors, ad

ministrators, or attorney of record, to pay the money so receiv
ed, or such part thereof as may be enjoined, he shall be amerced,
on motion in open court, for the use of the plaintifff, in the same
manner that such sheriff, or other ofﬁcer, would be liable to be

But such mon
ey may abide
the order of the
court or judge.

amerced for failing to pay over money made on execution; but
nothing in this, or the preceding section, shall be so construed
as to prevent the court or judge from ordering the money, so
made on execution as aforesaid, to be paid into court, or retain

Proceedings
against party
disobeying in
junction tostny

waste.

Same subject.

ed in the hands of the ofﬁcer, until the said injunction shall be
dissolved or made perpetual.
45. SECT. XLVlII. If the person against, whom an injunc
tion to stay waste shall be allowed, after the service and notice
thereof, shall do, commit, consent, direct, or suffer to be done

or committed, any waste or destruction of, or upon the premises,
contrary to the injunction, the court, or any judge of the su
preme court, or president judge of the court of common pleas, in
the recess of the courts, on motion and aﬂidavit, may award an
attachment for contempt, to be issued against the person charged
with disobedience to, and a breach of, the injunction.
46. SECT. XLIX. If the person so offending shall be brought
before the court or judge, by virtue of said attachment, and it
shall appear to the court or judge, as aforesaid, that such waste
or destruction hath been done or committed, the said court or

Injunctions
may be allowed
in all other
one
usual in
chancery, and
on what show
ing, and terms.

judge as aforesaid, may order said defendant, in their discretion,
to pay to the clerk of the court, a ﬁne not exceeding two hun
dred dollars, for the use of the county, and to make immediate
restitution to the party injured; or, in default thereof, to order
such defendant to be committed to close custody, until he shall
fully comply with such order, or be otherwise legally discharged.
47. SECT- L. The supreme court, or any judge thereof, and
the court of common leas, or any president judge thereof, may
allow injunctions in al cases, (other than to stay waste or pro
ceedings at law, as herein are provided for,) where it is usual for
courts of equity to interfere by injunction, on petition ﬁled, show
ing good cause in equity for such injunction, and veriﬁed by alli
davit; and the court or judge allowing the same, may impose

such conditions upon the party obtaining it, as shall seem to
How decrees
and orders may
be enfo

them equitable.
48. Sacr- LI. The courts of chancery shall have power to
enforce their decrees and orders, by attachment or sequestration;
and. if necessary, to award and issue such ﬁnal process against

the goods, chattels, lands and tenements, or against the person
of any defendant, as may be issued on a judgment rendered in a
court of law; and all such process shall be obeyed, executed and
returned by the sheriff, or other ofﬁcer, to whom the same shall
be directed, in like manner,and under the same penalties, as are

provided in cases of process issuing from a court of law. (a)
49. Sac-r. LII. If any sheriff, or other ofﬁcer, to whom an
writ, process, or order, of either of said courts of chancery, sh 1

Ofﬁcer failing
to make return
of process in

be directed or delivered, shall not make return thereof at the
day of return, and according to the tenor of such writ, process

chancery, to be

or order, the same not bein

in contempt,
and ﬁned.

stayed, he shall be in contempt,

and process of contempt shal , on motion in term time, be issued
against him; and the court may order him to pay to the clerk of
the court, a ﬁne not exceeding ﬁfty dollars, together with the
costs. I)
50. 1201'. LIII. The courts of chancery shall have power to How process,
rules and or
enforce obedience to their process, rules and orders, by process ders
enforced
of attachment for contempt; and any erson in contempt, may by ﬁne and im
be ﬁned in an sum not exceeding ﬁ ty dollars, at discretion, prisonment.
and imprisoned' until the said process, rule or order, shall be
obeyed and performed, and until the ﬁne imposed for the _con
tempt and the costs be fully paid. (b)
51. Seer. LIV. The courts of chancery shall have power in Costs, against
awarded
all cases, to award and tax costs on equitable principles, at their whom
and how col
discretion, except where it is otherwise directed by this, or any lected general
other legislative act; and the payment of such _costs, when ly in chancery.
awarded and taxed, may be enforced by writs of ﬁeri facias,
capias ad satisfaciendum, (c) or in any other mode said courts
may direct.
52. Sac-r. LV. Any person, or the heirs or personal re re Appeals to su
reme court
sentative of such person, may appeal to the supreme court, rom rorn
ﬁnal de
any ﬁnal sentence or decree, pronounced and made in any cause crees of com
mon
pleas,
or suit in chancery, in the court of common pleas, on giving no when and how
tice and security within the time required by law, in cases of taken.
appeals of suits at law; (d) and no lien created by said sentence
(a) As to orders of sale, they must be executed by the sheriff, or other proper oﬁicer
of the county, 8w. See 73d section of this chapter.
(15) As to mode of proceeding for contempts, see ante p. 211, 212.
(c) As to when a capias may issue, sec ante p. 647, 646, 649.
(d) Assume—As to appeals at law, see ante p. 681.
A ﬁnal decree to sell mortgaged premises is not opened by an appeal from the decree
conﬁrming the sale.-—Hey v. Schooley et 01., '7 O. R., (Part 2,) 48.
A decree, _to be ﬁnal, need not, it is said, conclusively settle and determine all the
questions litigated, or rights involved in the suit between the rties, but it must put an
end to that particular sum—Heirs quudlow 1:. Kidd et al., 0. R., 54].
A decree that the respondents. b a certain day, should assi n a certiﬁcate of certain
lands to the complainant, rovidsd'that the decree should not
operative if the com
plainant did not pay the de endnnts a certain sum of money bya s
iﬁed da , and pro
vided before the day the respondents should assign or tender an assignment 0 the certiﬁ
cate, is a ﬁnaldecree—Tunwr v. Crcbill at al., I O. R., 372.
Ala 3p 1;: lisl's8 from a decree taken by consent.—Brewer at al., v. Staleq/ Connecticut
cl a .,

The up eal has the effect of suspending or vacating the decree of the court of common
pleas, an operates as a continuance, and is a proceeding in the original csuse.~—Iler'n
ofLudlow v. Kidd cl al., 3 O. R., 5‘11.

Such appeals
not to allect
lien of decrees.
Petition for re
hearing, when,
by whom and
how granted.

Petition for re
view, when, by
whom and how
granted, and
proceedings
thereon. and
for stay of for
mer proceed
ings, die.

Same subject.

PRACTICE IN CHANCERY.

[CHAP

and decree, on any real estate, shall be vacated or removed by
said appeal, but shall remain until the ﬁnal adjudication of the
cause in the supreme court.
53. SECT. LVl. Petitions for rehearing, shall be signed by
counsel, and preferred within thirty days after the making of the
order on the hearing; and the prayer of such petitions shall be
allowed or disallowed, at the discretion of any two of the judges
of the court of common pleas, or one of the judges of the su
preme court, who made the order on the hearing of the case.
54. Sscr. LVII. Any person who was a party to a decree
of a court of Chancery, his heirs, executors or administrators,

may ﬁle a petition for a review of the proceedings in which such
former decree was rendered, at any time Within ﬁve years next
after rendering such decree, unless the person entitled to such
petition for review, was an infant, femme covert, non compos

mentis, or imprisoned, then within ﬁve years after the removal
of such disability. (a)
55. Sam". LVIII. If the petition for review be brought upon
errors of law appearing in the body of the decree, or proceed
ings themselves, it may be ﬁled as an original petition in chan
cery, as a matter of course; but if the petition for review be
brought upon the discovery of new matter since the hearing on
the former decree, it shall only be ﬁled with the leave of the
court to which it is exhibited: in either case, the court may, at
their discretion, on motion, stay the proceedings on the former
decree, until the further order of the court, or until ﬁnal decree
(a) ASTO BILLS or mavrsw, AND wrirr or ERROR TO A nuance—As to mode of pro
clecdirLg and practice upon bill of review, in supreme court, see 66, 67 6:, 71st sections of
t us 0 apter.

Upon a bill of review, the ori inal bill, answer, exhibits, and depositions, are open for
examination, when the decree use not contain a statement of the facts found, or prin
ciples decided.-—Ludlow’s hair: a. Kidd‘s heirs ct al., 2 O. R., 3'72.
A bill of review does not lie to a decree, upon a etiiion for divorce; even though the
decree is for alimon only—Baum v. Baseom, 75. R., (Part 2,) 125.
Persons intereste in the subject matter, though not parties to the original bill, may, it
seems be made parties to the bill of review; and when the original decree is reversed,

the bill of review, as to such new parties, will be retained as a supplemental bid—Lud
law‘c heirs a. Kidd's heirs et al., 2 O. R., 372.
A decree upon a bill of review, cannot be again reviewed, in a second bill of review, if
the original decree, and the one on review, are two subsisting concurrent decrees.
\Vhen, thereforee, a demurrer has been sustained to a bill of reView-in other words,
where, according to our practice, the bill has been dismissed and the original decree
thereby afﬁrmed, no subsequent bill of review will lie; but, where the ori inal decree has
been reversed on bill of review, this decree of reversal may be reviewed.
hen a decree
is rendered in the court of common pleas, an the cause is appealed to the supreme
court, anda like decree entered there, the decree of the supreme court may be reviewed.

When a decree is rendered in the court of common pleas and no appeal taken, but a
bill of review ﬁled in the common pleas, and the original decree reversed, the cause con
tinued for hearing, and a ﬁnal decree entered for the complainant, an appeal taken to
the supreme court, (whereby the proceedings under the bill of review are alone
brought UP.) and the bill dismissed; such dismissal is an afﬁrmation of the original de
prstle, and no other bill of review can be ﬁled—Strider v. Byrd's heirs, 7 O. R., (Part 1,)
Upon a writ of error to a decreein chancery, nothing will be examined but the bill
and answer, and exhibits made part oi them, the decree itself, and such matters as may
be made part ofthe case by a hi i ofexceptions. The court will not rehear the cause
on its merits— W'atera et al v. Lemmon, 4 O. R., 229.
{K bill in chancery to impeach a decree for fraud, must set forth the circumstances

which constituted the fraud, particularl and precisely. Such a bill will not be sus
tained alter an acquiescence in the fraud cnt decree for twenty ﬁve YCHIS.——Pt1tdl£l0ﬂ
v. Galloway at 02., 9 O. R., 178.

is made on the petition for review, provided the motion to stay

roceedings be made at the term at which the petition for review
is exhibited, and with leave ﬁled; or, if ﬁled in vacation, then at

the next succeeding term; and if proceedings are decreed to be
stayed, the court shall direct security to be given, as in cases of
appeals, or injunctions to stay proceedings at law.
56. Sscr. LIX. If proceedings are not stayed by order of
the court, the party against whom such former decree was ren
dered, shall fully comply therewith, and the court may, if they
deem it necessary, require security for costs to be given, on the
petition of review.
_

57. Seer. LX.

Parties against whom a decree has been ren

dered, without other notice than the publication in the news a
per, as provided for in this act, may, at any time within ve
years after the date of the decree, have the said decree opened,

and be let in to defend and to a hearing; but before the decree
shall be opened, the applicants shall give notice to the original
complainant, or his representatives, of the intention to make the
application, and shall ﬁle a full answer to the original bill, pay
al costs, and make an afﬁdavit that, during the pendency of said

Same subject.

Decrees against
arties notiﬁed
y publication,
when, and how
and upon what
terms opened.
Irs effect upon
purchaser un
der former de
cree.

suit, he or she received no actual notice thereof, in time to a

pear in court and object to said decree: provided, that the tit e
to any real or personal estate, the subject of the former decree,
which, by it, or in consequence of it, shall' have passed into the
hands of a bona ﬁde purchaser, shall not be affected by any pro
ceedings under this section.
58. SECT. LXI. When any suit in chancery is pending, and
either party thereto shall die, the same may be revived for or
against the executors, or administrators, heirs, legatees, or devi

Either part to
suitdying. ow
revived, 8w.

sees, of the deceased intestate or testator, in the satne manner as

any suit may be revived at law, by or against the executors, ad
ministrators, heirs, le atees, or devisees, of any decedent. (u)

59. Sam. LXII.
he supreme court, and court of common
pleas, may appoint in each county, such number of persons as
they may think necessary, to be master commissioners in chan
cery, who shall hold their ofﬁces for the term of three years, un
less removed by the court for good cause; (b) and said commis
sioners shall have power to take depositions in cases at law and
equity; to issue process to compel the attendance of witnesses,
which shall be served as other recess in chanccry; and to do
all such other acts of a ministerial nature, commonly performed
by masters in chancery; (0) who shall be allowed such fees for
(a) Buns or neuron—As to mode of reviving at law, see ante p. 667, 668.
When the defendant to a bill of revivor appears, he may, it is said, abide by the an
swer of the deceased defendant, or answer. The ﬁtct that the ancestor has answered,
does not, however, dispense with formal proceedings against his infant heirs. If the
deceased defendant has not answered, the new defendants must answer, or a decree as
confessed may be taken against them, before a ﬁnal decree is pronounced—St. Cluir’s
hair: 0. Smith et al., 3 O. R., 337. As to proceedings and decrees against infant defen
dants, see ante p. 702, note.
(6) The court may require masters in chanccry to give bond, 81.0., for which, see 70th
section of this chapter.
7
(c) As to the sale of lands, see 73d section.

Master com
missioners
may be appoin
ted;
—Term of of
ﬁce;
--Their powers
a ad duties;

—Their fees.

taking depositions as are pointed out by law; and for all other
services rendered, such fees as are allowed for similar services,
to other ofﬁcers, or shall be assessed by the court, and taxed in
Bills to
rpet
uateevi encetheir requisites,
6m, and pro
ceedings there
on, and effect,
&c.

Same subject.

the bill of costs.
60. Sac-r. LXIII. Petitions in chancery, which shall be here
after ﬁled for the purpose of perpetuating evidence, shall set
forth specially the subject matter, relative to which such evi
dence is to be taken, the names of parties, if known to complain
ant; but if not known, then such general description as he may
be able to give of the person, as heir, devisee, alienee, or other

wise, as the representative of some person, who shall be named
in such petitions. And the defendants in such petitions shall be
brought into court in the same manner as in other cases. (a)
61. Seer. LXIV. I The complainant, before he takes any evi
dence, under any order which may be made in such case, shall
ﬁle in court the names of the witnesses, and the interrogatories
to be propounded to each witness. And where actual notice
has not been served on the defendant, the court, or one of the

judges thereof in vacation, shall appoint some attorney of the
court to examine the petition and interrogatories, and to ﬁle
cross interrogatories thereto, which shall be forwarded, with the
interrogatories, to the ofﬁcer taking the depositions, and these
shall be fully answered to by such witness; and no question,
other than those ﬁled in court, shall be put to such witness, nor

any statement be received from him, which is not responsive to
some one of the interrogatories. And the attorney ﬁling the
cross interrogatories, by order of the court, shall be allowed a
reasonable fee therefore, to be taxed in the bill of costs.
Same subject.

62. SECT. LXV. Such deposition shall be taken before one
of the master commissioners in this state, or before some person
specially authorized, by a dedimus potestatem, to take the same,
and when taken, shall be returned to the court in which such

Same subject.

petition is pending; and if the court shall be satisﬁed that the
depositions have been properly taken, and conformably to the
provisions of this act, they shall order them to be made a part
of the record in the cause. And such original deposition, or a
certiﬁed copy thereof, shall be evidence in any suit, which may
be thereafter litigated between the parties to such petition, or
their privies, relative to the property which shall have been the
subject matter thereof, provided the deponent cannot be obtain
ed to testify in such subsequent suit or litigation.
63. Sac-r. LXVI. If, at any time after ﬁling such petition as
aforesaid, the complainant shall prove by his own oath or other
wise, to the satisfaction of the court, or any judge thereof, in
vacation, that any material witness is old, inﬁrm, or about to

leave the state, whereby he will be in danger of losing the evi
dence of such witness, by death, inability to testify, or removal,
the court, or such judge in vacation, may make and cause to be

ﬁled among the records in such cause, an order for taking the
(a) As to further provisions in relation to perpetuating testimony, see ante p, 327.

deposition of such aged, inﬁrm, or oing witness, de bene esse;
and in case of the death or remova of such witness, before the
defendant can be brought into court as above directed, such

deposition shall be holden good and valid, as if the same had
been taken by order of the court, after service of notice, or no

tice duly pu ished.
64. Sac-r. LXVII. All such petitions shall be ﬁled, and pro Costs in such
ceedings therein had, at the proper costs of the complainant.
65. Sizer. LXVIII. The acts entitled, “an act directing the Acts repealed:
mode of proceeding in chancery,” passed 22d day of February, Chase, 1277.
1824, and the act to amend the act, entitled “an act directing
the mode of proceeding in chancery,” passed the 11th day of Chase, 1590.
February, 1828, and the act to amend an act, entitled “an act
deﬁning the mode of proceeding in chancery,” passed the 10th Chase, 1618.
day of January, 1829, are hereby repealed: provided, that all Saving, &0.
causes now pending and undetermined, and all petitions and pro
ceedings which may be commenced before the taking effect of
this act, shall be prosecuted and determined by the provisions of
the foregoin acts; and all proceedings had, and decrees pro
nounced, shzﬁl be held valid and carried into effect by the pro
visions of the above recited acts.
This act to take effect from and after the ﬁrst day of June
next.
CGSL‘S.

An act to amend the not entitled, "An act directing the mode of proceeding
in chancery.
[Paued and took eject, March 14, 1838.

36 v. 81:11., 56.]

66. SECT- I. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State
0 Ohio, That in any case of a petition ﬁled in the supreme court,
or a review of any decree in chancery, and the subpoena issued
thereon, shall have been served ninety days previous to the next
succeeding term of said court, in the county in which such pro
ceeding is had, the defendant or defendants shall answer, plead,

Upon bill of
review ﬁled in
an reme court,

w en plan, an
swer, replica
tion, excep

tions, 6m, to
be ﬁled.

or demur to such bill, within forty days after such service. The
complainant shall except or reply, within twenty days after the
time limited for ﬁling the answer, lea, or demurrer of the defend

ant; and the cause shall stand or hearing at the next term of
the court thereafter, unless the court shall, for good cause shown,
order the same to be continued.
67. Sacr. II. When such bill of review, as is provided for in Same subject.
the preceding section, shall have been ﬁled, six months before
the next succeedin term of the court, the defendant shall have
sixty days, after t e service of subpoena, to answer, plead or

demur, and the complainant thirty days thereafter to except or
re 1 .
Sac-r. Ill. All assignments of property in trust, which
shall be made by debtors to trustees, in contemplation of insol
vency, with the design to prefer one or more creditors to the
exclusion of others, shall be held to inure to the beneﬁt of all
the creditors, in proportion to their respective demands; and

Assignments
to

trustees to

prefercrcditors,
&c.. how con

strued, and
controled, &c.,

in chancery.

Records in
chancery, how
made up and
attestedb pre
siding ju ge.

such trusts shall be subject to the control of chancery, as in other
cases, and the court, if need be, may require security of the trus
tees for the faithful execution of the trusts, or remove them and
appoint others, as justice may require. (a)
69. Sizer. IV. After any cause in chancery shall be ﬁnally
determined, the clerk shall make up a complete record thereof,
from the process, return, petition, {exhibits therein referred to,
pleadings, reports, decrees, orders, statement of facts, found by

a jury or agreed to by the parties, which shall be examined by

Master com
missioners to
ive bond, and
ow, &,c., and
suits thereon.

the presiding judge at the next term, and attested as is provided
in cases of records at law. (b)
70. Snow. V. The courts may require of masters in chan
cery, appointed by them, to give bond for the paying over of
monies coming to their hands; may ﬁx the penalty and condi
tion of the bond and approve the security; which bond shall be

given to the state of Ohio, and shall be ﬁled in the ofﬁce of the

When def ‘ts
to bill of review
in supreme
court may be,
brought in by
publication.
Suits relatin
to land—tit e,
boundaries,
contracts,
mortgages, 8m.
—-in what
count to be
broug t.

county auditor; and such bond may be sued upon as other oﬁi
cial bonds are, by persons injured.
71. Sscr. VI. In the cases provided for in the ﬁrst and sec
ond sections of this act, when all or any of the defendants reside
out of this state, public notice given, pursuant to the seventh
section (0) of the act to which this is amendatory, shall be equiv
alent to the service of subpoena.
79. Sacr. Vll. That in all cases in chancery, when the title
to, or boundaries of land, or contracts concerning lands and ten
ements, are drawn in question, for the foreclosure of any mort
gage upon real estate or the redemption of the same, for the
speciﬁc performance of any contract in writing for the sale or
encumbrance of any real estate, suit shall be commenced in the
county in which such land or real estate may be situated; and
if such land or real estate, being an entire tract, be situate in
(a) The act of February 23, 1835, (33 v. Stat., 13.) provided, thatfraudulent assign
ments, made to secure one class of creditors in preference to another, should inure to
the beneﬁt of all creditors, in proportion to their demands, and should be subject to the
control of a court of chancery.
his act was repealed by the 74th section of this chap
ter. It only related to assignments that were fraudulent and void. Under it,the con
veyance was void as to the preference created, although the fraudulent intent was con
ﬁned exclusivcly to the assignor.-Harshman et al. 11. Lowe et al., 9 O. R , 92. Where
proceedings to set aside a fraudulent assignment were commenced prior to the act of
ebruiiry ‘23 1835, and the court decreed in favor of the complainant, he thereby ob
tained a preference over other creditors of the debtor.—]?rpplier et al. v. Orrich et al., 7

Q R. (Part 2,) 246. To remedy this unequal distribution of property fraudulently as
signed, the act of February 23, 1835, was passed. Since the enactment of the section
to which this note is appended, all assi nments to trustees whether fraudulent or not,
if made in view of insolvency, are divi ed among all the creditors. Conve ancas other
than those made to trustees, are not nﬂ'ccicd by either of the statutes— all at al. 0.
Jeffrey et_al.,8 O. R., 390.
An assignment for the beneﬁt of preferred creditors, im
in no terms, and exacting
no delays,_ is_valid_; Stephenson el al. v. Agry et al., '7 O. L, ( art 2,) 247; but will be
controled in its eﬁect by the section to which this note is appended—Hull at 07. 0. Id
frey etal.. 8 O. R., 390. Where the beneﬁts of such assignment depend. by its terms,
on the release by the creditors of all further claims; Atkinson rl al. a. Jordan at al., b (1
R., 293; or, where the distribution is to be delayed a year, to afford time for the credi
tors to come in, in eitherease, the assignment is deemed fraudulent and void—quilizr
at al. v. Orrich c!al., 7 O. R., (Part 2,) 246. See ante p. 424.
(b) Ante page 678.
(c) Ante page 70].

two or more counties, or if there be separate tracts situate in
two or more counties, suit may be brought in any county in
which any tract or part thereof may be situated, and the court
in which suit shall be instituted shall proceed therein: provided, Decree to be

that any decree rendered in any such suit shall not operate as “mice °111Y in

county where

notice in any other county than that in which it is rendered, renderedmn.

except when a certiﬁed copy of such decree shall be recorded lizariwdegw

in the recorder’s ofﬁce. (a)

6 CW ere’

73. Sscr. VIIl. That all orders interlocutory or ﬁnal decrees
for the sale of lands or real estate, rendered in any such suit,
shall be directed to the sheriff or other proper ofﬁcer of the
county in which such order or decree is made, for the sale of any
entire tract situate in his and any adjoining county: and for the
sale of any tract situate in any one or more counties other than

Decrees for
Ethd‘i’rféggg’
sheriff or ofﬁ
ce' °f mum)"

'

that in which such order or decree is made, the same shall be

directed to the sheriff of the county, where any such tract or
art thereof may be situated; and in all such cases, the sheriff
In making such sales, shall in all things conform to the provisions
of the act regulating judgments and executions.
74. SECT- 1X. The act entitled “an act to amend the act Act. 8w" re
directing the mode of proceeding in chancery,” passed Febru- pea ‘
“act
ary 23d,
directing
1835;the
and
modes
the eleventh
of proceeding
and thirteenth
in chancery,”
sections
are hereby
of the Swath
v' 23:“
82¢ '

repealed: and the seventh section of the last mentioned act is tion ofthis_
hereby revived.
mpie'mVIYM
For prior laws directing the mode of proceeding in chuncery, see acts of February 17,
1804~Chasc, 432. February 3, ISM—Chase, 565. February 19, lBlO—Chase, 685.
December 24, 1812—Chase, 786. February 18, IBZO—Chase, 1130. February 4, 1822
Chase, 1233. January 22,18'Zt—Chase, 1277. February 11, 1828—Chase,1596. Janu
ary 10, 1829—Chnse, 1618. February 23, 1835—33 v. Stat., 13.

Sac-non
1. Cupiss on indictment, when to be is2. —When issued to an ofﬁcer of another
sued, and how and Where it may be eircounty, how and when executed;—
ocuted;
fees thereon how taxed and paid.

(a) It seems that this section, requiring the registration of decrees operating upon
land beyond the county where they are rendered, impliedly dispenses with such record
in cases where land lies within it.—-Le.rsrc of Bennct v. IVilliams, 50. R., 461. it
would, thereforee, secm, that purchasers are bound to take notice of decrees rendered in
the county where the lands are situate, though not registered in the rccorder’s ofﬁce.
As to the rules relating to Its pendens, see ante p. 701, note.
