SEc. 1. NAME OP Art. 
This act shall be known as the Code of Civil Procedure of the
State or Ohio. 
SEC. 2. RuLE OP CoYsTRUOTIOY. 
The rule of the common law, that statutes in derogation thereof,
are to be strictly construed, has no application to this Code. Its
provisions, and all proceedings under it, shall be liberally construed,
with a view to promote its object, and assist the parties in obtain­
ing justice. 
SEC. 3. DISTIYCTION BETWEEN' ACTIONS AT LA w A-'\"D SUITS IN EQUITY ADOL­
ISRED.--ONE FORM OF ACTION. 
The distinction between actions at law and suits in equity, and
the forms of all such actions and suits, heretofore existing, are
abolished; and in their place there shall be, hereafter, but one form
of action, which shall be called a civil action,' 
SEC. 4. PARTIES TO AM ACTION1 BOW DESIGNATED. 
i In such action, the party complaining shall be known as the
plaintifff, and the adverse party a.CJ the defendant. 
SEC. 5. FE~omm Isscas ABOLISBED-SUDSTITUTE. 
There can be no feigned issues ; but a question of fact, not put
in issue by the pleadings, may be tried by a jury, upon an order
for the trial, stating, distinctly and plainly, the question of fact to
be tried, and such order is the only authority necessary for a trial.1 
SEC. 6. To WHAT CA.SES THIS T1TLE .NOT APPLICABLE. 
This title shall not apply to actions already commenced, or to
cases where the right of action has already accrued; but the stat­
utes now in force shall be applicable to such cases, according to the
subject of the action, and without regard to the form; nor shall
this title apply in the case of a continuing and subsisting trust,
or to an action by a. vendee of real property, in possession thereof,
to obtain a conveyance of it.1 
SEC. 7. C.RTAIN 8TATUTBS OF LDIIJ'ATI01'8 RBPEA..LEI>. 
The act entitled, "a.n act for the limitation of actions," passed
February eighteenth, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-one;
the one hundred and sixtieth section of " an act io provide for the 
settlement of the estates of deceased persons," passed March
twenty-third, one thousand eight hundred and forty; and the sec­
ond section of "an act to give additional security to land titles in•
this state," passed March twenty-second, one thousand eight hun­
dred and forty-nine, are hereby repealed. 
SEC. 8. WHEN CIVIL ACTIONS SU.ALL BE OOlDIIDl'CED.-SPECI.AL LDUTATIONS BY
STATUTE. 
Civil actions esn only be commenced within the periods prescribed
in this title, after the cause of action shall have accrued, but where,
in special cases, a. different limitation is prescribed by statute, the
action may be commenced accordingly. 
SEC. 9. LIMITED TO TWESTY-O~E YBARS. 
CHAPTER X AN ACTion for the recovery of the title, or possession of lands,
tenements, or hereditaments, can only be brought within twenty­
one years after the cause of such action shall have accrued. 
Sec. 10. SA.vnm TO PEuoNs UNDER Clm-,.uN DlliBILITIES. 
If a person entitled to commence any action for the recovery of
the title or possession of a.ny lands, tenements, or hereditn.ments,
be, at the time his right or title shall first descend, or accrue, within
the age of twenty-one years, a married woman, insane, or impris­
oned, every such person may, after the expiration of twenty-one
years fr.om the time his right or title first descended, or accrued,
bring such action within ten years after such disability is removed,
and at no time thereafter. 
SeC. 11. FoBCIBLB ExTRY ilD DBTB.~TIOOl'--'llfO YB.Ula. 
CHAPTER X AN ACTion for the forcible entry and detention, or forcible deten­
tion only, of real property, can only be brought within two years
after the cause of such action ahall have accrued. 
CHAPTER III. 
ACTIONS OTHER THAN FOR THE RECOVERY OF REAL PROP­
ERTY. 
SECTION 12. When to be brought.
13. Obligations in writing: fifteen years.
14. Contracts not in writing, six year1J.
15. Treepaes, fraud, replerin, injuriea, Coor years. 
16. Libel, slander, a.ssauli and battery, malicious prosecution,
etc., one year. 
17. Action on official bonds, ten years.
18. Other relief, ten years. 
19. Right of action eaved to pereolli under ceriain diaabilities.
SEC. 12. WHEN TO BB BROUGHT. 
Civil actions other than for the recovery ot real property, can 
only be brought within the following periods after the cause of ac­
tion shall have accrued. 
SEC. 13. OBLIGATIONS IN W RITING-FIFTEBN YEABB. 
Within fifteen years:
CHAPTER X AN ACTion upon a specialty, or any agreement, contract, or 
promise in writing. 
SEC. 14. CONTRACTS NOT IN WRITL"'iG-81:X: YEARS. 
Within six years:
.An action upon a contract not in writing, express or implied.
CHAPTER X AN ACTion upon a liability created by statute, other than a for- 
feiture or penalty. 
SEC. 15. TRESPASS, F'RAUD, RBPLBVIN, INJURIB8-FOUK YEAJtS. 
Within four years:
CHAPTER X AN ACTion for trespass upon real property.
CHAPTER X AN ACTion for taking, detaining, or injuring personal property, 
including actions for the specific recovery of personal property.
CHAPTER X AN ACTion for an injury to the rights of the pla.intiff, not a.rising 
on contract, and not hereinafter enumerated.
CHAPTER X AN ACTion for relief on the ground of fraud; the cause of ac­ 
tion in such case shall not be deemed to have accrued, until the
discovery of the fraud. 
SEC. 16. LIBEL, SLANDER, AssAULT A.~D BA'M'ERY, MAL101ous PROSECUTION, src, 
--ONE YEAK. 
Within one year:
CHAPTER X AN ACTion for libel, slander, assault, battery, malicious prosecu­ 
tion, or false imprisonment •
CHAPTER X AN ACTion upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture; but where 
the statute giving such action prescribes a different limitation, the
action may be brought within the period so limited. 
SEC. 17. ON OFFICIAL BoND8-'l'BN YEAR8. 
CHAPTER X AN ACTion upon the official bond or undertaking of an executor,
administrator, guardian, sheriff, or any other officer; or upon tho 
bond or undertaking given in attachment, injunction, arrest, or in 
any case whatever required by statute, can only be brought within 
ten years after the cause of action shall have accrued; but this
section shall be. subject to the qualification in section eight. 
a. An action against the sureties of an officer on his official bond is barred
by the same limitation, that bars an action against the officer alone. State ti. 
Blake, 2 0. St. 147. 
SEC. 18. 0rHER RELIEF-TEN YEARS. 
CHAPTER X AN ACTion for relief, not hereinbefore provided for, can only be
brought within ten yea.rs after the cause of action shall have 
accrued. 
SEC. 19. RIGHTS SAVED TO PERSO~S UNDER CERTAIN DISABII,ITIES. 
If a. person, entitled to bring any action mentioned in this chap­
ter, except for a penalty, or forfeiture, be, at the time the cause of
action accrued, within the age of twenty-one years, a married
woman, insane, or imprisoned, every such person shall be entitled 
to bring such action within the respective times limited by this
chapter, after such disability shall be removed. 
SEC. 20. ,vHEN AS ACTIO:S IS DEEMED Cmnr&."iCED. ATTElrPT WHBN EQUIVALBNT
TO A ColmE.-.CEllEXT. 
CHAPTER X AN ACTion shall be deemed commenced within the meaning of
this title, as to each defendant, a.t the date of the summons which 
is served on him, or on a co-defendant who is a joint contractor, or 
otherwise united in the interest with him: where service by publi­
cation is proper, the action shall be deemed commenced at the date
of the first publication, which publication must be regularly made. 
An attempt to commence an action shall be deemed equivalent
to the commencement thereof, within the meaning of this title,
when the p&rty faithfully, properly and diligently, endeavors to
procure a service. But such attempt must be followed by service 
within sixty days. 
SeC. 21. SA VIYO A8 AGAINST ABSENT AND ABSCONDING DEBTORS. 
If, when a. cause of action accrues against a person, he be out of
the state, or have absconded, or concealed himself, the period lim­
ited for the commencement of the action shall not begin to nm, 
until he comes into the state, or while he is so absconded or con­
cealed; and if, after the cause of action accrues, he depart from
the state, or abscond or conceal himself, the time of his absence or 
concealment shall not be computed as any part of the period
within which the action must be brought. 
a. If a person lives in this state, at the time a cause of action accrues against
him, his subsequent removal from the state will not stop the running of the 
statute if he afterward returns to the state. Coventry e. Atherton, 9 0. R 34.
b. If a party, during the running of the statute, remove to pa.rte unknown to 
the party having the right of action, the party may bring his action within
the time limited in the act, after the party shall have returned to the state, or
his residence become known to him having a right of action. Sullenberger e,
Gest & Mills, 14 0. R. 204. 
e. If a person then leaves the state, or goes to parts unknown, during the ex­
istence of a cause of action against him, he loees the benefit of the time which
may have ran ill his favor prior to his departure. lb. 
d. If a. pel"BOll re11M>vea to parts unknown, it matters not whether he goos be.
yond the limits of the state, or remains concealed, or unknown within it; the
statute does not commence running in his favor until his place of residence
becomes known. lb. 
e. A mere return, in cue of remon.l without tM 84ate, is not sufficient, unleee
the claimant has a knowledge of bis residence after his return. lb. 
Sec. 22. A0110N BARRED TN ANOTHD 8'rAn, BARRED HERB. 
Where the cause of action has arisen in another state or country
between non-residents of this state, and by the laws of the state
or country where the cause of action arose, an action can not be
maintained thereon by reason of lapse of time, no action can be
maintained .thereon in this state. 
SEC. 23. SAVING WHEN JUDGMENT IS REVERSED1.0R CASE NOT DECIDED ON THE
MERITS. 
If an action be commenced within due time, and a judgment
therein for the plaintifff be reversed, or if the plaintifff fail in such
action otherwise than upon the merits, and the time limited for the
same shall have expired, the plaintifff', or, if he die and the cause
of action survive, his representatives may commence a new action, 
within one year after such reversal or..fa.ilure. 
a. In the absence of any express statutory provision on the subject, sec. 6 of
the statute of limitation of 1831, is to be construed so as to cover a case under
the administration act; where the claimant commences suit within six months
after the rejection of bis claim by the executor, and after the expiration of
the six months the judgment is reversed, or the plaintifff becomes non-suited.
Haymaker's ex'rs v. Haymaker, 4 0. St.. 272. 
SEC. 24. WHID. PxnrnxT, OR AcK!fOWLBDOMEXT, os Pnourss rs WRITING, RE­
VIVES THE CAtTSE OP ACTION. 
In any case founded on contract, when any part of the princi­
pal or interest shall have been paid, or an acknowledgment of an
existing liability, debt, or claim, or any promise to pay the sa.me, 
shall have been made, an action may be brought on such case within
the period prescribed for the same, after such payment, acknowl­
edgment or promise, but such acknowledgment or promise mus
be in writing, signed by the party to be charged thereby.1 
SEC. 25. ACTION TO BE L"f NAME 01' RB.AL PARTY IN INTEUST. 
Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real party
in interest, except as otherwise provided in se~tion twenty-seven.' 
SEC. 26. \ ASSIGNMENT OF THING Hf ACTION NOT TO PREJUDICE DEFENSec. 
In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action by
the assignee shall be without prejudice to any setoff or other de­
fense now allowed; but this section shall not apply to' negotiable
bonds, promissory notes, or bills of exchange, transferred in good
faith and upon good 'cousideration, before due.1• 
SEC. 27. EXECUTOR OR Tm:sTEE ?,L\.Y SuE WITHOCT THE BE~EFICIARY. 
An executor, administrator, guardian, trustee of an express trust,
a person with whom, or in whose name, a contract is made for the
benefit of another, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may
bring an action without joining with him the person for whose
benefit it is prosecuted. Officers may sue and be sued in such
name as is authorized by law, and official bonds may be sued upon
in the same way.1 
SEC. 28. WHE~ A MARRIED WoYA.--. ts A P..&..RTY-AcT10:-.s BY AXD AGAINST. 
Where a married woman is a party, her husband must be joined
with her; except, when the action concerns her separate property,
she may sue without her husband, by her next friend. 
When the action is between herself and her husband, she may
sue or be sued alone; but in every such action other than for a di­
vorce or alimony, she shall prosecute and defend by her next friend.1 
SEC. 29. How THE W IFB MAY DRFEXD. 
If a husband and wife be sued together, the wife may defend
for her own right; and if the husband neglect to defend, she may
defend for his right also.' 
SEC. 30. !NFAJ..,T ll T GE BY UARDIA~ OR NEXT FmEXD. 
The action of an infant must be brought by his guardian or next
friend. When the action is brought by his next friend, the court
has power to di mi s it, if it is not for the benefit of the infant, or
to sub titute the guardian of tho infant, or any person, as the next 
friend.1 
T FRIE,'D OF A.", I~F ~T I y TE TlFY-LIABLE FOR
SEC. 31. 
The guardian or next friend is liable for the costs of the action
rought by him, and, when he is insolvent, the court may require
ecurity for them. Either may be a witness in an action brought 
by him. 
SEC. 32. WHERE A. !NFA~T 1 DEFENDANT-M.\NNER OF EFEN E. 
The defen e of an infant mu t e by a guardian for the uit, who
may be appointed by the court, in which the action is pro ecuted,
or by a judge thereof, or by a probate judge. The appointment
can not be made until after service of the summon in the action as
directed in this Code.2 
SEc. 33. How GUARDIAN FOR INFANT DEFENDANT APPOINTED. 
The appointment may be made upon the application of the in­
fant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within twenty
days after the return of the summons. If he be under the age of
fourteen, or neglect so to apply, the appointment may" be made
upon the application of any friend of the infant, or on that of the 
plaintifff in the action.1 
•
SEC. 34. Wao MA.Y BE Jorssn AS PLAINTIFFS. 
All persons having an interest in the subject of the action and
in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintifffs, except 
as otherwise provided in this title. 
2 
SEC. 35. WHo MAY sE HADE DEFE..'io .. sxrs, 
Any person may be made a defendant, who has or claims an in­
terest in the controversy, adverse to the plain~iff; or who is a ne­ 
cessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the
question involved therein.1 
SEC. 36. PARTIES UNITED IN INTEREST :m,·sT BE JOINED. 
Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest
must be joined,- as plaintifffs or defendants; but if the consent of
one who should have been joined as pla.ntiff, can not be obtained, 
he may be made a. defendant, the reason being stated in the petition.' 
a. A 11 joint makers of a note must be made parties. Fricke t,. Eberhart, 3
Law Gaz. 282. 
SEC. 37. WHEN ONE OR MORE MAY DEFEND FOR ALL. 
When the question is one of a. common or general interest of
many persons; or when the parties are very numerous, and it may
be impracticable to bring them all before the court, one or more
may sue or defend for the benefit of all.2 
SEC. 38. How PARTIES SEVERALLY LIABLE. MAY BB SUED. 
Persons severally liable upon the same obligation ~f instrument,
including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes,
may, all or any of them, be included in the same action, at the op­
tion of the plaintifff.' 
SEC. 39. ACTIONS NOT TO ABATE-PROCEBDISOS IN C.VJE OF DEATH, l\IARRIAGE1 
OR OTHER DISABILITY . 
. An action does not abate by the death, marriage, or other disa­
bility of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, during
its pendency, if the cause of action survive or continue. In case
of the marriage of a female party, the fact being suggested on the
record, the husband may be made a party with his wife; and in the
case of the death or other disability of a. party, the court may al­
low the action to continue by or against his representative or suc­
cessor in interest. In case of any other transfer of interest, the
action may be continued in the name of tlfe original party; or the
court may allow the person to whom the transfer is made, to be
substituted in the action.' 
SEC. 40. GE:SERAL RULE A8 TO WHO MUST BB p ARTIES. 
The court may determine any controversy between parties be­
fore it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of oth­
ers, or by saving their rights; but when a determination of the
controversy can not be had without the presence of other parties,
the court must order them to be brought in.1 
SEC. 41. Ix ACTIOS TO RECOVER REAi, on PERSOX • .\L PROPERTY WHO MAY BE
PARTIES. 
When, in -an action for the recovery of real or personal property,
any person having an interest in the property, applies to be made
a party, the court may order it to be done.1 
SEC. 42. How ORDER FOR sAFE-KEEPiso OF PnoPERTY CI,.A.Dn!D BY THIRD PERSON
OBTAINED--TIIIRD PERSOS MAY BE MADE APARTY-IIIS CLAIM BARRED. 
Upon a,idavit of a defendant before answer, in any action upon
contract, or for the recovery of personal property, that some third
party, without collusion with him, has or makes a claim to the sub­
ject of the action, and that he is ready to pay or dispose of the
same, as the court may direct, the court may make an order for the
safe-keeping, or for the payment, or deposit in court, or delivery
of the subject of the action, to such person as it may direct, and
an order requiring such third party to appear in a reasonable time
and maintain or relinquish his claim against the defendant. If such
third party being served with a. copy of the order, by the sheriff,
or such other person as the court may direct, fail to appear, the
court may declare him barred of all claim in respect to the subject
of the action, against the defendant therein. If such third party
appear, he shall be allowed to make himself defendant in the ac­
tion, in lieu of the original defendant, who shall be discharged from
all liability to either of the other parties in respect to the subject 
of the action, upon his compliance with the order of the court for
the payment, deposit, or delivery thereof.1 
SEC. 43. Ix ACTlOY AOAI:SST 8HERIFP OR OTHER OFFlCER1 SEC, 42 TO APPLY. 
The provisions of the last section shallbe applicable to an action
brought against a sheriff, or other officer, for the recovery of per­
sonal property taken by him under execution, or for the proceeds
of such property so taken and sold by him. And the defendant
in any such action shall be entitled to the benefit of those provis­
ions against the party, in whose favor the execution issued, upon
exhibiting to the court the process under which he acted, with his
affidavit that the property, for the recovery of which, or its pro­
ceeds, the action is brought, was taken under such process. 
SEC, 44, Ix ACTIO:S AGAL~ST SHERIFF OR OTHER OFFICER FOR PROPERTY, PL.\INTIFF
IN EXECUTIO:S lU.Y BB SL"BSTITUTED. 
In an action against a sheriff, or. other officer, for the recovery
of property taken under an execution, and replevied by the plain­
tiff in such action, the court may, upon application of the defend­
ant and of the party in whose favor the execution issued, permit
the latter to be substituted as the defendant, security for the costs
being given.2 
~EC. 45. CERTAIN ACTIONR MUST BE BROUGHT IX THE Co~TY WHERE THE PROP.
ERTY IS SITUATED. 
Actions for the following causes, must be brought in the county
in which the subject of the action is situated, except as provided
in section forty-six : 
1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest
therein: 
2. For the partition of real property:
8. For the sale of real property under a mortgage, lien, or 
other encumbrance or charge.1 
SEC. 46. ExCEPTIONS.-WHERE PROPERTY 18 SITUATED IN TWO OB. MORB COUN­
TIBS1 THE ACTION MAY BE BROUGHT IN EITBER1 EXCEPT REAL ACTION.­
ACTION POR SPECIPIO PBRFORMANCB. 
If the real property, the subject of the action, J>e an entire
tract and situated in two or more counties, or if it consist of sep­ 
arate tracts, situated in two or more counties, the action·ma.y be
brought in any· county in which any tract, or part thereof, is situ­
ated, unless it be an action to recover the possession thereof. And
the property be an entire tract, situated in two or more counties,
CHAPTER X AN ACTion to recover the possession thereof, may be brought in
either of such counties; but if it consists of separate tracts in
different counties, the possession of such tracts must be recovered
by separate actions brought in the counties where they are situated. 
CHAPTER X AN ACTion to compel the specific performance of a contract of
sale of real estate, may be brought in the county where the de­
fendants, or any of them, reside. 
SEC. 47. CJIRTAIN ACTIONS MUST BE BROUGHT IN THB COUNTY WBERB TBB CAUSE
AROSec. 
Actions for the following causes, must be brought in the county
where the cause, or some part thereof, arose : 
1. An action for the recovery of a fine, forfeiture, or penalty,
imposed by a statute ; except that, when it is imposed for an
off'ense committed on a river, Or other stream of water, or road,
which is the boundary of two or more counties, the action may be
brought in any county bordering on such river; water course, or
road, and opposite to the place where the offense was committed : 
2. An action against a public officer, for an act done by him in
virtue or under color of his office, or for a neglect of his official 
duty:
8. An action on the official bond or undertaking of a public 
officer. 
Sec. 48. WHERE ACTION MAY BE BROUGHT AGAINST A CORPORATION. 
CHAPTER X AN ACTion other than one of those mentioned in the first three
sections of this chapter, against a corporation created by the laws
of this state; may be brought in the county in which it is situated,
or has its principal office or place of business; but if such corpo­
ration be an insurance company, the action may be brought in the
county where the cause of action, or some pa.rt thereof, arose.' · 
SEC. 49. ACTIO'SS AGAINST STAGE OR RAILROAD COMPA!IT1 WHERE TO BE BROUGHT. 
CHAPTER X AN ACTion against the owner of a line of mail stages, or other
coaches, for an injury to person or property, upon the road or line,
or upon a. liability as carrier, and any action against a railroad
company, may be brought in any county through or into which
such road or line passes. (As amended :May 1, 1854. 52 0. L., 
102). 
a. For original section 49, see 51 0. L., 65. 
Sec. 50. ACTIONS AGAINST A TURNPIKE COMPANY. 
CHAPTER X AN ACTion other than one of those mentioned in the first three
sections of this chapter, against a turnpike road company, may be
brought in any county in which any part of the road lies. 
SEC. 51. EXCEPTIONS, °"'"HERE THE CHARTER OTHERWISE PROVIDES. 
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply in the case of any
corporation created by a law of this state, whose charter prescribes
the place, where. alone a suit against such corporation may be 
brought. 
SEC. 52. ,VHERE AN ACTION AGAINST A NON-RESIDENT OR FOREIGN CORPORATION
llAY BE BROL'GHT. 
CHAPTER X AN ACTion other than one of those mentioned in the first three
sections of this chapter, against a non-resident of this state or a
foreign corporation, may be brought in any county in which there 
may be property of, or debts owing to, said defendant, or where 
said defendant may be found; but if said defendant be a foreign
insurance company, the action may be brought in any county where 
the cause, or some part thereof, arose .• 
SEC. 53.-ACTIONS TO BE BROUGHT WHERE THE DEFENDA."iT RESIDES OR MAY BE 
SUMMONED. 
Every other action must be brought in the county in which the
defendant, or some one of the defendants, resides, or may be sum- 
moued.' · 
a. See note 1, section 45 ; also section 58 and notes. 
b. A witness shall not be liable to be sued in a county in which he does not
reside, by being served with a summons in such county, while going, returning,
or attending in obedience to a subpena, Code, section 329 . 
SEC. 54.-WHEY THE PLACE OF TRIAL MAY BE CHANGED. 
In all cases, in which it shall ue made to appear to the court,
that a fair and impartial trial can not be had in the county where
the suit is pending, the court may change the place of trial to
some adjoining county. 
• 
SEC. 55. BY PBTITION .. AND sUM110Ns. 
A civil action must be commenced by filing in the ~ffice of the
clerk of the proper court, a petition, and causing a summons to be
issued thereon • 
SEC. 56. PRBCIPB FOB 8UlDlON8. 
The plaintifff" shall, also, file with the clerk of the court, a pre­
cipe, stating the names of the parties to the action, and demand­
ing that a summons issue thereon. 
•
SEC. 57. REQUISITES OP A SUlDIONS. 
The summons shall be issued by the clerk, shall be under the
aeal of the court, from which the same shall issue, and shall be
signed by the clerk. Its style shall be, "The State of Ohio, -­
county," and it shall be dated the day it is issued. It shall be di­
rected to the sheriff of the county, and command him to notify the 
. defendant, or defendants, named therein, that he or they have been
sued, and must answer the petition filed by the plaintifff, giving his 
name, at a time stated therein, or the petition will be taken as
true, and judgment rendered accordingly: and where the action is
for the recovery of money only, there shall be indorsed on the
writ, the amount to be furnished in the precipe, for which, with in­
terest, judgment will be taken, if the defendant fail to answer. If
the defendant fail to appear, judgment shall not be rendered for a
larger amount and the coets.' 
SEC. 58. WBBRB ACTION IS BROUGHT IN ONE OOUNTY1 SUlOIONS JUY ISSUE TO ANY
OTHBR COUNTY. 
Where the action is rightly brought in any county, according to
the provisions of title four, a summons shall be issued to any other
county, against any one, or more, of the defendants, at the plain· 
tiff's request. 
a. Where two are sued as joint contract.ors, one of whom resides in the county
in which the suit is brought, and the other in another county, and service of a
summons is made on each in the county in which he resides, and it turns out
that the person residing in the county where the action is brought is not liable 
, as a. joint contract.or, the plaintifff ought not to recover against the one residing
in the foreign county. Dunn e, Hazlett, 4 0. St. 435. 
'TJ. In such case, the person residing out of the county can be required to an·
ewer in another county, upon the ground only, that a joint contractor resides,
and is sued, i• the county where the action is brought. ITJ. 
c. If the person residing in and the person residing out of the county, jointly
plead to the merits, and the court find that they were not joint contractors, and 
nonsuit the plaintifff', it is error in the court to set aside the nonsuit, with leave
to the plaintifff' to strike out the name of the person residing in the county, and 
proceed ~r.rainst the one residing out of the county alone. Ib. 
d. Aft.er such leave granted, it is error in the court to ref use to dismiss the
proceedings, for the reason that no service of a summons was made within the
county where 1mit was brought. Ib. 
e, See section 53 and notes. 
SEC. 59. WHEN SUllMONS RETURNABLE. 
Where the time for bringing parties into court is not fixed by
statute, the summons shall be returnable on the second Monday after
the day of its date; but where it is issued to any other the.n the
county in which the action is brought, it may be made returnable,
at the option of the party having it issued, on the third or fourth
Monday after its date. It shall state the day of the month on
which it is returnable. 
SEC. 60. W BJIJf n&TBD WBIT8 KAY IS&UB.-W BIIN 'fO Dil'l'BBBNT OO'OlfTIBI.. 
When a writ is returned "noi summoned," other writs may be
issued, until the defendant, or defendants, shall be summoned; and
when defendants reside in different counties, writs may be issued
to such counties at the same time. . 
SERVICE OF SUMMONS. 
SlilOTlON 61. By whom served.
62. Manner of service. 
63. Time and manner of service to be stated. 
64. When to be returned. 
65. What equivalent to service. 
66. How served on a oorporation.
6 7. How served on an ineursaoe company. 
&8. How served on a foreign oorponiion. 
69. Infante how Bel'Ved. 
8BO. 61. BY WBOII SBRVBD. 
CHAPTER II. 
SUBDIVJSION l 
AOTU.AL SBRVIOB. 
SEC. 51. The summons shall be served by the officer to whom it is di­
rected, who shall indorse on the original writ, the time and manner
of service. It may, also, be served b1 any person not a party to
the 11,etion, appointed by the officer to whom it is directed. Thf
authority of such person shall be indorsed on the writ. When tlu
writ is served by a person appointed by the officer to whom it is di
reeted, or when the service is made out of this state, the return shall
be :iverified by oath or affirmation.1 
SEC. 62. lliNNBR OF SERVICB. 
' .The service shall be by delivering a copy of the summons to the
defendant personally, or by leaving one at his usual place of resi­
dence, at any time before the return day. 
SEC. 63. Tllm AND JUNNBR OF 8DVIOB TO BB BT.A.Tim. 
In a.11 cases, the return must state the time and manner of
service. 
SEC. 64. W HE!i S{jl[)(ONS TO BE RETURNED. 
The officer to whom the summons is directed, must return the
same at the time therein stated. 
8EC. 65. WHAT IS EQUIVALENT TO SBRVICB. 
An acknowledgment on the back of the summons, or the volun­
tary appearance of a defendant, is equivalent to service.1 
a. It is not proper practice for the attorney of the plaintifff' to acknowledge
aervioe of procesa for the defendant, and thereby bring him into court. And 
the court in such case will refuse to enter up a judgment. Sleeper e, Sleeper, 
1 Handy, 530. 
• 1), A party defendant pleading to the action, thereby, by implication of law,
·• enters his appearance in the action, and is estopped from denying the service 
of prooess. Evans ti. Iles, 7 0. St. 233. 
c. A defendant by filing a demurrer to the petition, is estopped from deny·
ing the service of process, unless the authority by which this is done can be 
impeached. Ih. 
d. Where a. motion is pending to strike the cause from the docket for want
or service, and a demurrer to· the petition is filed, it is error to order the cue
stricken from the docket, although the demurrer may have been previously 
withdrawn by leave of the oourl 16. 
Sso. 66. How SERVED ON i.. CORPORATION. 
A summons against a corporation, may be served upon the presi­
dent, mayor, chairman of the board of directors or trusteea, or other
chief officer; or, if its chief officer is not foundin the county, upon 
its cashier, treasurer, secretary, clerk, or managing agent; or, if
none of the aforesaid officers can be found, by a copy left at the
office, or usual place of business of such corporation, with the per­
son having charge thereof.2 
Ssc, 67. How SERVED ON AN INStJRANOE OOKPANY. 
H Where the defendant is an incorporated insurance company, and
the action is brought in a. county in which there is an agency
thereof, the service m~y be upon the chief officer of such agency. 
SF.O. 68. How SERVED ON A FOREIGN OORPORA.TlON. 
Where the defendant is a foreign corporation, having a manag­
ing agent in this state, the service may be upon such agent.1 
a Unless a. foreign corporation has within the state a managing agent, for the'
ordinary transaction of its business, it can not be held liable in our courts by •
any proceeding in personam. Barney 11. New Albany and Salem R. R Co. 
1
Handy, 571. 
Sec. 69. How SERVED UPON INFANTS. 
When the defendant is a minor under the age of fourteen years,
tlie service must be upon him and upon his guardian, or father; or,
if neither of these can be found, then upon his mother, or the per­
son having the care or control of the infant, or with whom he lives.
If neither of these can be found, or, if the minor be more than four­
teen years of age, service on him alone, shall be sufficient. The
manner of service may be the same as in the case of adults. 
1 
SEC. 70. WHEN SERVICE HA.Y BE MADB BY PUBLICATION OF NOTICR. 
Service may be made by publication in either of the following
eases: 
In actions brought under the forty-fifth and forty-sixth sections
of this Code, where any or all the defendants reside out of the 
state: 
In actions brought ·to establish or set aside a. will, where any or
all the defendants reside out of the state : 
In actions brought against a nonresident of this state, or a for­
eign corporation, having in this state property or debts owing to
them, sought to be taken by any of the provisional remedies, or to 
be appropriated in any way : 
In actions which relate to, or the subject of which is, real or per­
sonal property in this state, where any defendant has or claims a
lien or interest, actual or contingent, therein, or the relief demanded
consists wholly or partly in excluding him from any interest therein,
and such defendant is a non-resident of the state or a foreign cor­
poration: 
And in all actions, where the defendant being a resident of the
state, has departed therefrom, or from the county of his residence,
with intent to delay or defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service
of a summons, or keeps himself concealed therein with the like 
intent. " 
a. It is clearly apparent, from all the provisions of the Code on the subject of
the service of a summons, contained in title 5, chapter 2, that service by publi­
cation, in the cases and mode prescribed, must be deemed a complete and suf­
ficient service of process, and on proof thereof aa required, authorizes a judg­
ment. Vallett.e t,. Ken Trust Co. Bank, 2 Handy, 1. 
b. A foreign dissolved corporation may be served with process by publication;
the same a.s if not diesolred, Ib. 
SEC. 71. AFFIDA. VIT TO BE MADE. 
Before service can be made by publication, an affidavit must be
filed, that service of a summons can not be made within this state,
on the defendant or defendants to be served by publication, and
that the case is one of those mentioned in the preceding section.
When such affidavit is filed, the party may proceed to make service 
by publication.1 
SEC. 72. PUBLICATION HOW MADB1 AND WR.AT THB NOTICB MUST CONTAIN. 
The publication must be made six consecutive w.eeks, in some
newspaper printed in the county where the petition is filed, if there
be any printed in such county; and if there be not, in some news­
paper printed in this state, of general circulation in that county.
It must contain a. summary statement of the object and ptayer of 
the petition, mention the court wherein it is filed, and notify the
person or persons thus to be served, when they are required to
answer.1 
a. A notice to non-resident defendants by publication must contain a perti­
nent description of the property sought to be a.ft'ected, whereby the party would
be more apt to receive actual notice. Lawler e, Whetts, 1 Handy, 39. 
b. A notice that the action is brought" for the recovery of money, and for
the foreclosure of a mortgage," is not a sufficient statement of the object and 
prayer or the petition. Ib. 
e. A strict and literal compliance with the law of notice by publication
should be required. Ib. 
d. The notice to a non-resident defendant in attachment, should give a per­ 
tinent description of the real estate, which is sought to be subjected to the
payment of the debt. Clark v. Southgate, 2 Law Ga.z. 44. 
e, Where the notice stated " that attachment had issued and levied on real
estate," held, that it was np description and was insufficient. lb. 
f To entitle a plaintifff to judgment, upon service of summons by publica­
tion only, the notice should set forth the issuing of an attachment, and should 
contain a description of the property attached. Moses "· McKim, 2 W. Law
Monthly, 15. 
~BO. 73. WHEY SERVICE BY PUBLICATION OOllPLETB-PROOF. 
Service by publication shall be deemed complete, when it shall 
have been made in the manner and for the time prescribed in the
preceding section ; and such service shall be proved by the affida­
vit of the printer, or his foreman, or principal clerk, or other per­
son knowing the same.' 
a. Though there is no provision of the Code requiring the court to approve
of the publication of notice, and order the proof to be filed, independent of
the final action of the court, in rendering a judgment predicated on the publi­
cation, it is, perhaps, a. convenient practice, in view of the probable loss of the
papers and affidavits. Vallette e, Ken. Trust Co. Bank, 2 Handy, 1. 
b. Is it the duty of the court, on the submission of the action for judgment, 
to look behind the affidavit of the plaintifff, filed under section 71 of the Code,
and determine whether ihe affidavit bas been truly and properly made; wheth·
er, in point of fact, the C88e is one 88 claimed by the plaintifff, authorizing a
service by publication. Quere? Ib. 
a. The service will be completed on the day of the last or sixth publication,
and the time to answer will be the third Saturdu.y after that day. Nash's
Plead. and Prac. ~. 
d. Forty·two entire days must elapse after and ezcltuioe ·or the day of the
first publication; and that seven entire days must elapse after, and exclusive
of the date of the last of the six publications, before any one of the three Sat­
urdays which fix the time for answer, can be counted for that purpose. Gil­
fillin e, Koke, 1 W. Law Monthly, 704. 
SEC. 7 4. SERVICE os BUJOIONS OUT OF THE STATE. 
, In all cases where service may be made by publication, personal
service of a copy of the summons and complaint may be made out 
of the state. 
2 
8J!IO. 75. JUDGMENT B.BNDBRBD UPON SERVICE MADE BY PUBLICATION MAY BE
OPENED. 
A party against whom a judgment or order has been rendered
without other service than by publication in a newspaper, may, at
any time within fiv~ years after the date of the judgment or order,
have the same opened, and be let in to defend. Before the judg­
ment or order shall be opened, the applicant shall give notice to
the adverse party of his intentions to make such an application,
and shall file a full answer to the petition, pay all costs, if the 
court require them to be paid, and make it appear to the satisfac­
tion of the court, by affidavit, that during the pendency of the
action he had no actual notice thereof in time to appear in court
and make his defense ; but the title to any property, the subject of
the judgment or order sought to .be opened, which, by it or in con­
sequence of it, shall have passed to a. purchaser in good faith,
shall not be affected by any proceedings under this section, nor
shall they affect the title of any property sold before judgment
under an attachment. The adverse party, on the hearing of an
application to open judgment, or order, as provided by this sec­
tion, shall be allowed to.present counter affidavits to show that du­
ring the pendency of the action, the applicant had notice thereof,
in time to appear in court and make his defense. 
SEC. 76. ACTION AGAINST UNKNOWN HEIRS. 
In actions where it shall be necessary to make the heirs or de- ·
visees of any deceased person, defendants, and ii shall appear by
the affids;yit o( the plaintifff annexed to his petition, that the names
of such heirs or devisees, or any of them, and their residence, are
unknown to the plaintifff, proceedings may be had against such un­
known heirs or devisees, without naming them, and the court shall
make such order respecting service, as may be deemed proper ; if
service by publication be ordered, the publication shall not be less
than six weeks.· 
SEC. 77. P:ROOBBDINGS WBD TBERB ARB SBVBRAL DEFEND.A..~TS A..""iD PART ONLY
..lU SERVED. 
Where the action is against two or more defendants, and one or
more shall have been served, but not all of them, the plaintifff may 
proceed as follows : · 
1. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted upon
contract, he may proceed against the defendants served, unless the
court otherwise direct: 
2. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he may,
without prejudice to his rights against those not served, proceed
against the defendants served in the same manner as if they were
the only defendants.1 · 
a. Judgment mo.y be taken aga.inst one of several defendants served, and the
plaintifff' ma.y proceed in the same action against those defendants not served,
by another summons. Lennig & Co. e, Burgoyne & Knowlton, 1 Handy, 77. 
6. This right is subject to the control and direction of the court, under sec­
tion 371, and will be exercised, when it would inconvenience tho admlnistra­ 
tion of justice or prejudice the other party. JlJ.
c. The court will not refuse to allow the plaintifff to proceed, where it will 
expedite and assist him in obtaining justice; save him from unnecessary costs;
and in no respect infringe on the just right.s of others. Ib. 
d. See seceiona 58, 371 and 415, notes, 
SEC. 78. PL'-DENCY OP TBB ACTION PROTECTS THE PLAISTIFF's TITLE. 
When the summons has been served, or publication made, the
action is pending, so as to charge third persons with notice of its
pendency, and while pending, no interest can be acquired by third
persons in the subject matter thereof, as against the plaintifff's 
title. 
SEC. 79. JuooxENT TO BE NOTICE ONLY IY THE COUNTY WHERE BEYI>EB.ED, UNLESS
RECORDED ELSEWHERE. 
When any part of real property, the subject matter of an action,
is situated in any other county or counties than the one in which
the action is brought, a certified copy of the judgment in such ac­ 
tion must be recorded in the recorder's office of such other county
or counties, before it shall operate therein as notice, so as to charge
third persons, as provided in the preceding section. It shall op­
erate as such notice, without record, in the county where it is ren­
dered; but this section shall not apply to actions or proceedings 
under any statute now in force, which does not require such re­ 
cord. 
SEC. 80. WHAT CA1JSE8 OF ACTION lllA.Y BE JOINED. 
The plaintifff may unite several causes of action in the same pe­
tition, whether they be such as have heretofore been denomi­
nated legal or equitable, or both, when they are included in either
one of the following classes : 
1. The same transactions ; or transactions connected with the
same subject of action : 
2. Contracts, express or implied:
8. Injuries, with or without forct!; to person and property, or 
either:
4. Injuries to character:
5. Claims to recover the possession of personal property, with 
or without damages for the withholding thereof:
6. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages for 
the withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the same :
7. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract or by opera­ 
tion of law. 
SEC. 81. CAUSES JOINED MUST AFFECT ALL THE PARTIES. 
The ca.uses of action so united, must affect all the parties to the
action, and not requir.e different places of trial.1 
StX:. 82. PLJW>INOS. 
The pleadings are the written statements by the parties or the
facts, constituting their respective claims and defenses. 
SEC. 83. RULES OF PLEADING HERETOJ!'Oll EXISTING A.BOLISHBD. 
The rules of pleading, heretofore existing in civil actions, are
abolished; and hereafter the forms of pleading in civil actions in
courts of record, and the rules by which their sufficiency may be
determined, are those prescribed by' this Code. 
SlilO. 84. Pua.DINGS ALLOWED BY THB CoDB. 
The only pleadings allowed, are,
1. The petition by the plaintifff.
2. The answer or demurrer by the defendant. 
3. The demurrer or reply by the plaintifff".
4. The demurrer to the reply by the defendant. 
Oaoss PETITION.-Any defendant, who is properly made a de­
fendant, may claim, in his answer, relief touching the matters in
question in the petition, against the plaintifff, or against other de­ 
fendants in the same action. As amended April 8, 8857. 5t 0.
L. 91. 
a. For original sec, 84, see 51 0. L. 71. 
b. If on inspection of the defendant's a.newer, it shall be found to contain a .
prayer for judgment, and the necessary averments to show the party's right to
relief, under the proceedings instituted against him, the court will not require
the filing of a cross petition, in form, but will treat such answer o.s equivalent 
to a petition of ihat kind, and grant whatever relief the party may show him­
self entitled to receive. Klonne and wife "· Bradstreet et al, 7 0. 8t. 322. 
c. See sec. 105. 
SECTION 85. What to contain.
86. Bow each cause of action to be stated and numbered 
8EO. ~5. WHAT TO CONTAIN. 
CHAPTER II. 
THE~PETITION. 
The petition must contain,
1. The name of the court and the county in which the actio11 is 
brought, and the names of the parties, plaintifff and defendant, fol­
lowed by the word "Petition."1 
2. A statement of facts constituting the cause of action, in or­
dinary and concise language, and without repetition.1 
3. A demand of the relief to which the party supposes himself
entitled. If the recovery or money be demanded, the amount
thereof shall be stated ; and if interest thereon be claimed, the
time- from which interest is to be computed, shall be also stated.' 
Ssc, 86. How BACH OAUSE OF ACTION TO BE S't.A.TED AND NUMBERED. 
Where the petition contains more than one cause of action, each 
shall be separately stated and numbered.1 
8EC. 87. WHEN THB DEFENDANT :'.\fAY DB:IIUR. 
The defendant may demur to the petition only when it appears
on its face, either, 
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the de­
fendant, or the subject of the action : 
2. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue :
3. That there is another action pending between the same parties 
for the same cause: 
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant:
5. 'I'hat.several causes of action are improperly joined: 
6. That the petition does not state facts sufficient to constitute a.
co.use of action.1 · 
SEC. 88. GROUNDS OF DEllURRER ll'C"ST BE STATED. 
The demurrer shall specify distinctly the grounds of objection
to the petition. Unless it do so, it shall be regarded as objecting
only, that the petition does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action. 
SEC. 89. WHEN OBJECTION :VAY DE TAKES BY A!'ff!WER1 WHE:S DEEMED WAIVED. 
When any of the defects enumerated in section eighty-seven, do
not appear upon the face of the petition, the objection may be
taken ~y answer; and if no objection be taken either by demurrer
or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same,
except only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and that
the petition does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.' 
8sc. 90. WBKBB CAUSES OJ.I' ACTION ARE MISJOINED1 SEP.ARA.TB TRIAL KAY~BB
DIRBCTBD. 
When a demurrer is sustained on the ground of misjoinder of
several causes of action, the court, on motion of the plaintifff, shall
allow him, with or without costs in its discretion, to file several 
petitions, each including such of said causes of action as might
have been joined ; and an action shall be docketed for each of said
petitions, and the same shall be proceeded in without further
service. 
a. Section 90 of the C-ode applies, as well where the objection to a misjoinder
of causes of action is made by answer, as by demurrer. Cloon ti. City Ins. Co.,
1 Handy, 32. · 
SEC. 91. MAY ANSWER TO PA.RT AND DEMUR TO PART. 
The defendant may demur to one or more of the several causes
of action stated in the petition, and answer as to the residue.' 
SEC. 92. WHAT THB ANSWBB JIU8T CONT.UN. 
The answer shall contain :
1. A general or specific denial of each material allegation of the 
petition controverted by the defendant.
2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense, coun­ 
ter-claim or set-off, in ordinary and concise language and without
repetitiori.1 
SEC. 92.-1. The new matter must be fact.s, and where the answer al­
leged that a note, sought to be recovered upon, was obtained by fraud, but did
not set out the fact.s and circumstances of such fraud, it was held insufficient 
on that ground. Mcl\Iurray & Thomas "· Gifford, 5 Howard, 14. 
2. In an action for a money demand on contract, the defendant may set up, 
SEC. 93. }L,y STATE DIFFERE~T DEFENSES~UNTER-OLAW-SET-OFF-LEOA.L OR
EQUITABLE DEFENSES. 
The defendant may set forth in his answer as many grounds of
defense, counterclaim and set-off, as he may have, whether they
be such as have been heretofore denominated legal or equitable, or
both. · Each must be separately stated and numbered, as they must
refer in an intelligible manner to the causes of action which they
are intended to answer.1 
SEC. 94. CoUNTER-cLArt. . 
The counterclaim, mentioned in the last section must be one ex­
isting in favor of a defendant, and against a. plaintifff', between
whom a. several judgment might be had in the action, and arising 
out of the contract or transaction set forth in the petition as the
foundation of the plaintifff's claim, or connected with the subject
of the action.' 
SEC. 95. CoSTS ON COUNTBR-OLAD( OR BE'N>Flll r.t SUBSBQUBN'T ACTION. 
If the defendant omit to set up the counterclaim or set-off, he
ca.n not recover costs against the plaintifff in any subsequent ac­
tion thereon ; but this section shall not apply to causes of action 
which are stricken out of or withdrawn from the answer, as pro­
vided in sections ninety-six and one hundred and nineteen.1 
SEC. 96. NBW PARTY TO BB lUDB IP NHCBSSARY. 
When it appears that a new party is necessary to a final decision
upon the counterclaim, the court may either permit the new party 
to be made by a. summons, to reply to the counterclaim, or may 
SEC. 97. Sn-on. 
A set-off can only be pleaded in an action founded on contract,
and must be a. cause of action arising upon contract or ascertained
by the decision of the court.1 
SEC. S3. NEW PARTY TO SET-OFF. 
When it appears that a new party is necessary to a final decis­
ion upon the set-off, the court shall permit the new party to be
made, if it also appear, that owing to the insolvency or non-resi­
dence of the plaintifff, or other cause, the defendant will be in dan­
ger of losing his claim, unless permitted to use it as a set-off. 
SEC. 99. WHEN CROSS DB11ANDS TO BB DEBllED COMPENSA..TJID. 
When cross-demands have existed between persons under such
circumstances, that if one had brought an action against the other,
a. counterclaim or set-off, could have been set up, neither can be
deprived of the benefit thereof by the assignment or death of the
other, but the two demands must be deemed compensated, so far
as they equal each other. 
Sm ,100. A.."lj'SWEB. OF GUARDI.L"'l OR A'M'ORNBY OF CERTAIN PERSONS INSANE,
IN PRISON, OB lNFA.'lllTS. 
The guardian of an infant or person of unsound mind, or attor­ 
J\0Y for a person in prison, shall deny in the answer, all the mate­
rial allegations of the petition prejudicial to such defendant. 
a. The answer of a guardian defending for an infant or a person of unsound
mind, or a person in prison, need not be verified. Section I 07 of the Code. 
CHAPTER V. 
REPLY. 
SJi'.O. 101. DouRRBR. TO ANSWJm-REPLY-NEW )(A.TTBR-DEllURRBR ro REPLY. 
The plaintifff may demur to one or more of the defenses set up
in the answer, stating in his demurrer the grounds thereof; and
where the answer contains new matter, the plaintifff may reply to
such new matter, denying generally or specifically, each allegatiQD
controverted by him ; and he may allege in ordinary and concise
language, and without repetition, any new matter not inconsistent
with the petition, constituting an answer in law to such new mat­
ter. To this reply, the defendant may demur. (As amended
April 8, 1857. 54 0. L. 92.) 
1 
SEC. 103. TIME FOR. PLEADING. 
The answer or demurrer by the defendant shall be filed on or be­
fore the third Saturday, and the reply or demurrer by the plaintifff, 
on or before the fifth Saturday, after the return day of the sum-.
mons or service by publication. 
a. See Rule XIX of the supreme court-ante page. 
b. The defendant has the usual time for answer after every material amend­
ment, whether that amendment is made under sections 134 and 135 of the 
Code, or in term time, on leave obtained from the court. Mather v. Gallia Fur­
nace Co. 1 Wes. Law Monthly, 351. 
c. When the petition is such that a judgment by default could be legally ren­
dered upon it, this ruling will not apply. lb. 
d .. When service is by publication, the defendant must answer on the third
Saturday next after the day of the last publication of the notice. Nash. Plead.
and Prac. I 00. 
SEC. 104. Tnm FOR PLEADING KAY BE EXTENDED. 
The court, or the judge thereof in vacation, for good cause shown,
may extend the time for filing an answer or reply, upon such terms
as may be just. 
1 
a. Whether a party shall be permitted. to plead the statute of limitations af­
ter a default, is a matter resting in the sound discretion of the court. New- 
som' s adm'r e, Ran, 18 0. R. 240. · 
b. A failure of the plaintifff' to give security for costs according to an order
of court, is no excuse for the defendant neglecting to file his plea. lb. 
c. A default for answer, may be set aside, where a meritorious defense is
shown, upon payment of the costs by the defendant. Messick & Co. and Ken.
Trust Co. Bank e, Roxbury & Wiloox, 1 Handy, 190. 
d. The time for answer ought not to be extended, without notice, where it
will operate as a continuance of the cause. The unexpected absence of a party
or counsel at the time when the answer must be filed, or where certain papers,
without which a party can not answer, can not yet be obtained, would be good
ground for extending the time. Nub. Plead. and Pra.o. 100. 
SEC. 105. PLEADINGS MUST BE SUBSCRIBED. L~TERROOATORIES MAY BE FILED1 A.."f· 
S'\YERS UNDER OATH ENFORCED. 
Every pleading in a court of record must be subscribed by the
party or his attorney. Any party may, in all cases in which he
would have the right to use the deposition of an adverse party,
whether plaintifff or defendant, also annex ·to his pleading, other 
tha.n a. demurrer, interrogatories pertinent to the ease, which inter­
rogatories, if not demurred to, shall be plainly and fully answered,
under oath. When annexed to the petition, they shall be answered
within 'the time limited for answer to the petition-when annexed . 
. to the answer, they shall be answered within the time limited for
reply-when annexed to the reply, they shall be answered within
the period allowed for answers to petitions in general; but further
time may be allowed in any case, by the court or judge, in vaca­
tion. Answers to interrogatories may be enforced by nonsuit,
judgment by default, or by attachment, as the justice of the case
may require; on the trial such answer may be used as evidence by
either party." (As amended March 6, 1857. 54 0. L. 23.) 
a. For original sec. 105, see 51 0. L. 74. 
SEC. 106. PLEADINGS TO BE VERIFIED. 
That every pleading of fact, must be verified by the affidavit of
the party, his agent or attorney. When a. corporation is a party,
the verification may be made by an officer thereof, its agent or at­
torney; and when the state, or any officer thereof in its behalf, is
a party, the verification may be made by any person acquainted
with the facts, the attorney prosecuting or defending the action,
the prosecuting attorney, or attorney general. A pleading verified
as herein required, shall not be used against a party in any crimi­
nal prosecution, or action or proceeding for a penalty or forfeiture,
as proof of a fact admitted or alleged in such pleading, and such
verification shall not make other, or greater proof necessary on the
side of the adverse party.2 (As amended March 11, 1854. 52
0. L. 22.) 
SEC. 107. WHEN VERIFICATION NOT REQUIRED. 
The verification mentioned in the last section, shall not be re­
quired to the answer of a guardian defending for an infant or per­
son of unsound mind, or person imprisoned; nor in any case, where
the admission of the truth of a fact stated in the pleading, might
subject the party to a criminal or penal prosecution.' 
SEC. 108, 0:NB OF SBVBBAL PARTIBS JliY VBlUFY. 
If there be several persons united in interest and pleading to­ 
gether, the affidavit may be made by any one of such parties.' 
SEC. 109. VERIFilq> BY BELIEF. 
The affidavit shall be sufficient, if it state that the affiant believes
the facts stated in the pleading to be true. 
SEC. 110. VERIFICATION BY NON-RESIDENT OF CO~TY. 
In all cases where the pa.rty pleading is a non-resident of the
county in which the action is brought, or if he shall be absent from
the county where the pleading is filed, an affidavit made before fil­
ing the pleading, stating the substance of the facts afterward in­
serted in the pleading, shall be a sufficient verification. Such affi­
davit shall be filed with the pleading intended to be verified thereby. 
a. An affidavit under the Code, sec. 110 "stating the substance of the facts
afterward inserted in a pleading," if made out of Ohio, can only be made be­
fore a judge, justice, or chancellor of a court of record, a justice of the peace, .
notary public, mayor, chief magistrate of a city, or town corporate, a. commis­
sioner appointed by the governor of this state to take depositions, or a person
authorized by a special commission from this state. Middleworth v. Freese, 1
Wes. Law Monthly, 199. 
SEC. 111. VERIFICATION TO BE SIGNED AND CERTIFIED. 
The affidavit verifying pleadings, may be made before any per­
son before whom a deposition might be taken, and must be signed
by the party making the same; and the officer before whom the
same was taken, shall certify that it was sworn to or affirmed be­
fore him, and signed in his presence. The certificate of such offi­
cer, signed officially by him, shall be evidence that the affidavit was
duly made, that the name of the officer was written by himself, and
that he was such ofticer.l1 
SEC. 112. WHEN VEIUFIOATION APPLIES TO AllOUNT CLAlKED. 
The verification of the pleading does not apply to the amount
claimed, except in actions founded on contracts, express or implied,
for the payment of money only. 
8Ec. 113. VERIFICATION BY .A.OENT OR ATTORNEY. 
When the affidavit is made by the agent or attorney, it must set
forth the reason why it is not made by the party himself. It can
be made by the a.gent or attorney, only, 
1. When the facts are within· the personal knowledge of the
agent or attorney: 
2. When the plaintifff is an infant, or of unsound mind, or im­
prisoned: 
3. When the .pleading to be verified is founded upon a written
instrument for the payment of money only, and such instrument 
is in the posscssicyi of the agent or attorney: 
4. When the party is not a resident of, or is absent from the
county.1 · 
SEC. 114. PLEADINGS TO BE LIBK&ALLY CONSTRUED. 
In the construction of any pleading, for the purpose of deter­
mining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with
a view to substantial justice between the parties.1 
SEC. 115. All fictions in pleading are abolished.
SEc. 116. The title of a. cause shall not be changed in any of 
its stages. 
a. By section 116 is meant that the title or caption of the answer or demur­
rer, or other paper filed in the cause after the petition, shall be like· that of the
petition naming the plaintifff first; whereas before the Code it was usual to
name the . party putting in the pleading first. Ansc,nia. Rub. Co. v. Wolf, 1
Handy, 236. 
b. Section 116 does not confilct with section 137, which authorizes the court
in furtheranoe of justice to amend any pleading, etc., by adding to or striking
out the name of any party. lb. 
Sec. 117. WHEN OOPIBS OF WBITTBN INSTRUMENTS TO BB FILED WITH PLEADINGS. 
H the action, counterclaim or set-off be founded on an account
or on a note, bill, or other written instrument, as evidence of in­
debtedness, a. copy thereof must be attached to and filed with the
pleading. If not so attached and filed, the reason thereof must 
be shown in the pleading.1 
SEC. 118. REDUNDANT OR IRRELEVANT MATTER MAY BE STRICKEN OUT-ALLEGA·
TIONS IN PLEADING HAY BE HADE MQRB DEFINITE. 
If redundant or irrelevant matter be inserted in any pleading, it 
may be stricken out, on motion of the party prejudiced thereby.
And when the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite and un­
certain that the precise nature of the charge or defense is not ap­
parent, the court may require the pleading to be made definite and
certain by amendment.1 
SEC. 119. CoUNTER-CLADI OR SETOFP MAY BE MADE THE SUBJBOT OP A SEPA
RATE PROCEEDING. 
The court, at any time before the· final submission of the cause,
on motion of the defendant, may allow a counterclaim or set-off,
set up in the answer, to be withdrawn, and the same may become
the subject of another action. On motion of either party, to be
made at the time such couter-claim or set-off is withdrawn, an ac­
tion on the same shall be docketed and proceeded in as in like
cases after process served; and the court shall direct the time and
manner of pleading therein. If an action be not so docketed, it 
may afterward be commenced in the ordinary way. 
SEC. 120. ALLEGATION OF JURISDICTION. 
In pleading a. judgment or other determination of a court or of- 
ficer of special jurisdiction, it shall be sufficient to state that such
judgment or determination was duly given or made. If such al­ 
legation be controverted, the party pleading must establish, on the
trial, the facts conferring jurisdiction. 
1 
a. Section 120 of the Code was not intended to apply to the judgments of
the superior courts of general jurisdiction of our own state, or to the judg­
ment.a of the courts of our sister states. Memphis Medical College v. Newton,
2 Handy, 163. 
b. In an action on a. judgment rendered by a court of a sister state, it is ne­
ceBBary to set out in the petition itself the same substantial allegations, as were
required in a declaration in debt, under the common law system :or pleading.
And these material faot.s must appear in the petition itself, without reference
to the transcript of the record as o.n exhibit. 
SEC. 121. A.LLBGATlON OF PBRFORMA."iOB OJ' CONDITIONS PBBCBDBNT. 
In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a con­
tract, it shall be sufficient to state, that the party duly performed
all the conditions on his pa.rt; and if suoh allegation be contro­
verted, the party pleading must establish, on the trial, the faeta
showing such performance. 
SEC. 122. How 'W'RIT'l'Elf INSTRUJONTS FOR TRE PAYMENT OF MONEY TO BE STATBD. 
In an action, counterclaim, or set-off founded upon an account,
promissory note, bill of exchange or other instrument for the un­
conditional payment of money only, it shall be sufficient for a party 
to give a copy of the account or instrument, with all credits and
the indorsements thereon, and to state that there is due to him, on
such account or instrument, from the adverse party, a. specified
sum, which he claims with interest. When others than the makers
of a promissory note, or the acceptors of a bill of exchange, are 
parties in the action, it shall be necessary to state, also, the kind
of liability of the several parties, and the facts, a.s they may be, 
which fix their lia.bility.1 
SEC. ~23. PLEADING STATUTES. 
In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, it
shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title, and the day
of its passage, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice 
thereof. 
a. All statutes in Ohio a.re printed by authority, and though local or special,
are, nevertheless, public acts ; of which courts of justice, ez otfici.o, take notice. 
Brown ti. State, 11 0. R 338. • 
SEC. 124. IN ACTIONS FOR SLANDER OR LIBEL, EXTRINSIC FACTS NEED NOT BB
STATED. 
In an action for a libel or slander, it shall be sufficient to state
generally, that the defamatory matter was published or spoken of
the plaintifff, and if the allegation be denied, the plaintifff must
prove on the trial, the facts, showing that the defamatory matter
was published, or spoken of him.1 
~ 
SBC 125. TRUTH OF MATTER AND MITIGATING CIRCUMSTANCES MAY BE .ALLEGED. 
In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant may
allege the truth of the matter charged as defamatory, and may
prove the same, and any mitigating circumstances to reduce the 
amount of damages, or he may prove either.' 
SEC. 126. How REAL PBOPBRTY DESCRIBED IN PETITION'. 
In an action for the recovery of real property, it shall be de­
scribed with such convenient certainty, as will enable an officer 
holding an execution, to identify it. .
SEC. 127. EVERY MATERIAL ALLEGATION' NOT CONTROVERTED TO BE T~N AS TRUE. 
Every material allegation of the petition not controverted by the
answer, and every material allegation of new matter in the answer
not controverted by the reply, shall, for the purposes of the action,
be taken as true, but the allegation of new matter in the reply shall
be deemed controverted by the adverse party, as upon a direct denial
or avoidance. Allegations of value, or of amount of damage,
shall not be considered as true by failure to controvert them.1 (As
amended April 8, 1857. 54 0. L. 91.) 
SEC. 128. WHAT IS A MATERIAL ALLEGATION. 
A material allegation in a. pleading, is one essentiel to )he claim
or defense, which could not be stricken from the pleading, without 
leaving it insufflcient." · 
SEC. 129. LEGAL PRESUllPTIONS1 ETC., NEEP NOT BE STATED. 
Neither presumptionsof law, nor matters of which judicial no­
tice is taken, need be stated in the pleading. 
SEC. 130. LosT PLJW>n«H JUT BB 8UB8TITUTBD. 
If an original pleading be lost, or withheld by any person, the
court may allow a copy thereof to be sabstituted. 
SEC. 131. EFFECT OF VARIANOE-Ilow .AlfE?H>ED. 
No variance between the allegation in a pleading and the proof,
is to be deemed material, unless it have actually misled the ad­ 
verse party to his prejudice, in maintaining his action or defense
upon the merits. Whenever it is alleged that a party has been so
misled, that fact must be proved to the satisfaction of the court,
and it must also be shown in what respect he has been misled; and
thereupon the court may order the pleading to be amended, upon
such terms as may be j ust.1 
SF.C. 132. WHEN PACTS MAY BB POUND AOOORDINO TO BVJDBNCE1 AND AMENDMENT
MADE. 
When the variance is not material, as provided in the last sec­
. tion, the court ma.y direct the fact to be found, according to the 
evidence, and may order an immediate amendment without costs. 
SEC. 133. A F..ULU:BE OF PROOF-NOT A VAJUAliCE. 
When, however, the allegation of the claim or defense, to which
the proof is directed, is unproved, not in some particular, or par­
ticulars only, but in its general scope and meaning, it is not to be·
deemed a case of variance within the last two sections, but a fail­ 
ure of proof.1 
SEC. 134. A.'t1E:SDME..~T OF PETITION BEFORE ANSWER. 
The plaintifff may amend his petition without leave, at any time
before the answer is filed, without prejudice to the proceeding; but 
notice of such amendment shall be served upon the defendant, or
his attorney, and the defendant shall have the same time to answer
or demur thereto, as to the original petition. 
Sec. 135. AlmNDXBNTS ON D&Htl'UBR. 
At any time within ten days after a demurrer is filed, the ad­
verse party may amend, of course, on payment or costs since filing
the defective pleading. Notice of filing an amended pleading shall
be forthwith served upon the other party, who shall have the same
time thereafter to answer, or reply thereto, as to an original 
pleading. 
SEC. 136. REPLY AFTBR DBHURRBR OVERRULED. 
Upon a demurrer being overruled, the party who demurred, may
answer or reply, if the court be satisfied that [he] has a meritori­
ous claim, or defense, and did not· demur for delay. 
SEC. 137. Alm.'fDIONT OF PLBADING1 PR.00888 OB PBOOBEDINO. 
The court may, before, or after judgment, in furtherance of jus­
tice, and on such terms as may be proper, amend any pleading,
process or proceeding, by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, [or] a.
mistake in any other respect, or by inserting other allegations ma­
terial to the case, or, when the amendment does not ehenge sub­
stantially the claim or defense, by conforming the pleading or pro­
ceeding to the facts proved. And whenever any proceeding taken
by a party fails to conform, in any respect, to the provisions of this
Code, the court may permit the same to be made conformable
thereto, by a.mendment.1 
SEC. }38. IMMATERIAL ERROR.~ A."ro DEPEOTS1 HOW REGARDED. 
The court, in every stage of an action, must disregard any error
or defect in the plea.dings or proceedings which does not affect the
substantial rights of the adverse party; and no judgment shall be
reversed, or affected, by reason of such error, or defect. 
SEC. 139. A.lfE!'JDMENT IF DE.'UURRER SUSTAINED. 
If the demurrer be sustained, the adverse party may amend, if
the defect can be remedied, by way of amendment, with or without
costs, as the court in its discretion shall direct. 
SEC. 140. Funnnm TIHE POR TRIAL AFTER AMENDMENT. 
When either party shall amend any pleading, or proceeding, and
the court shall be satisfied by affidavit, or otherwise, that the ad­
verse party could not be ready for trial in consequence thereof, ai, 
continuance may be granted to 'some day in term, or to another
term of the court. 
SEC. 141. WIIBll A. PARTY KAY· BB SUM> BY A FIOTITIO'US NAME. 
When the plaintifff' shall be ignorant of the name of a defendant,
such defendant m~y be designated in any pleading or proceeding
by any name and description, and when his true name is discovered,
the pleading, or proceeding may be amended accordingly. The
plaintifff' in such case, must state, in the verification of his petition,
that he could not discover the true name, and the summons must
contain the words, " real name unknown," and a copy thereof
must be served personally upon the defendant.1 
SEC. 142. 8UPPLEl[BNTAL PETITION, A..~SWER OR REPLY. 
Either party may be allowed on notice, and on such terms as
to costs, as the court may prescribe, to file a supplemental petition,
answer· or reply, alleging facts material to the case, occurring after
the former petition, answer, or reply.2 
SEC. 143. WHAT ACTIONS MAY BE CONSOLIDATED. 
Whenever two or more actions are pending in the same court,
which might have been joined, the defendant may, on motion and
notice to the adverse party, require him to show cause why the
same shall not be consolidated, and if no such cause be shown, the
said several actions shall be consolidated. 
a. Where two separate suits are brought, one upon anote, the other to fore­
close the mortgage that secured the same note, the actions may be consolidated
as in such case but one suit should be brought. Howlett v. Martin, 3 Law
Gaz. 266. 
b. The object of consolidating actions is to save costs, and prevent multi­
plicity of suits; it is always regarded with favor, and never denied, when it is
clear that the parties are the same, and the cause :or action is identical How­ 
lett e, Martin, 3 Law Ga.z. 266.
c. Unless the joinder will produce manifest incongruity, and the parties be 
deprived of the benefit of a. full and fair trial, there would seem to be no good
ground to forbid the pursuit of all the usual remedies, at the same time and in
the same procedure. lb. 
d. In an action to obtain judgment on a promissory note secured by mort­
gage, and to foreclose the mortgage, judgment should be rendered on the note, 
and an order made for the sale of the mortgaged premises. lb. 
SEC. 144. By WHOM ORDER MADE. 
The order for consolidation may be made by the court, or by a
judge thereof in vacation. 
SEC. 145. A.RUST Di CIVIL AOTIONS. 
A defendant in a civil action, can be arrested before, and after
judgment, in the manner prescribed by this Code, and not other­
wise; but this provision does not apply to proceedings for contempt;
nor does it apply to actions or judgments prosecuted in the name 
, of the state of Ohio, to recover fines or penalties for crimes, mis­
demeanors, or offenses. 
SEC. 146. CAUSES FOR A.RRES'l'-APFIDAVIT. 
An order for the arrest of the defendant, shall be made by the
clerk of the court in which the action is brought, when there is
filed in his office an affidavit of the plaintifff, his authorized agent,
or attorney, made before any judge of any court of the state, or
clerk thereof, or justice of the peace, stating the nature of the
plaintifff's claim, that it is just, and the amount thereof, as nearly 
as may be, and establishing one or more of the following partic­
ulars: 
1. That the defendant has removed, or begun to remove, any of
his property out of the jurisdiction of the court, ·with intent to defraud his creditors: • 
2. T.hat he has begun to convert his property, or a part thereof,
into money, for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of his 
creditors:
8. That he has property, or rights of action, which he fraudu- 
lently conceals : ·
4. That he has assigned, removed, or disposed of, or has begun 
to dispose of his property, or a part thereof, with intent to de­
fraud his creditors : 
5. That he fraudulently contracted the debt, or incurred the ob­
ligation, for which suit is about to be, or has been brought: 
The affidavit shall also contain a statement of the facts claimed
to justify the belief in the existence of one ~r more of the above 
particulars,' 
SEC. 147. UNDERTAKl!'iO TO DE GIVEN. 
The order of arre~t shall not be issued by the clerk until there 
has been executed, by one or more sufficient sureties of the plain­
tiff", a written undertaking, to the effect that the plaintifff shall pay
to the defendant all damages, which ho may sustain, by reason of
the arrest, if the order be wrongfully obtained, not exceeding
double the amount of the plaintifff's claim stated in the affidavit. 
SEC. 148. WHEN THB OJU>BR MAY ISSUE. 
The order may be· made to accompany the summons, or at any
time afterward, before judgment. 
SEC. 149. CoNTENTS OF THE ORDER, TO WHOM DELIVERED. 
The order of arrest shall be addressed, and delivered, with a
copy of the affidavit, to the sheriff. The order shall state the names
of the parties, the court in which the action is brought, and the
amount of the plaintifff's claim specified in the affidavit, and shall
require the sheriff to arrest the defendant, and hold him to bail in
double the sum stated in the· affidavit, and to make return of the
order on a day to be named therein, with the undertaking of the
bail, if any be given. 
SEC. 150. WHEN ORDER RETURNABLE. 
The return day of the order of arrest, when issued at the com­
mencement of the suit, shall be the same as that of the summons:
when issued afterward, it shall be fifteen days after it issued. 
SEC. 151. How EXECUTBI>---FURTHER ORDBR MAY ISSUE. 
The sheriff shall execute the order by arresting the defendant
and delivering to him a copy thereof, and of the affidavit. If the
defendant can not be found before the return day, the plaintifff
shall be entitled to further orders, without other affidavit, or un­
dertaking, until the defendant is arrested; but orders of arrest shall
not be issued to any other than the county in which the action is
brought.1 
SEC. 152. WHAT TO BE DONE WITH PARTY ARRESTED. 
The defendant, when arrested, shall be committed by the sheriff 
to the jail of the county, and kept in custody, until discharged by
law. 
SEC. 153. MAY DEPOSIT MONEY A..~D BE DISCHARGED. 
The defendant may, before or after giving bail, deposit in the.
hands of the sheriff, or in court, the amount of money mentioned 
in the order of arrest; whereupon he shall be discharged, or his
bail, if any be given, shall be relea.sed. 
SEC. 154. DISPOSITION OF HONKY. 
The sheriff shall pay into court the money received by him in
lieu of bail ; if received in vacation, he shall pay it in on the first
da.y of the next term; if received during a term, he shall pa.y it in
immediately. 
SEC. 155. MONEY TO BE CONTROLLED BY COURT. 
The court shall make proper orders for the safe-keeping of money
deposited in lieu of bail. It may direct the sheriff to keep the
money, and after final judgment in the action, shall order it to be
paid to the party entitled thereto, according to the result. 
SEC. 156. SHERIFF AND HIS SURETIES LIABLB THEREFOR. 
Money so deposited with the sheriff, in lieu of bail, or directed
by the court to be kept by him, shall be held upon his official re­
sponsibility; and he and his sureties shall be liable, and may be
proceeded against, for any default in relation thereto, as in other
cases of delinquency. · 
SEC. 157. DEFENDA.~T MAY GIVE BA.IL. 
Bail may be given by the defendant on his arrest, or e.t any time
afterward, before judgment. It shall be done by causing one or
more sufficient bail to execute a written undertaking to the plaintifff,
in the presence of the sheriff, to the effect that, if judgment shall
be rendered in the action against the defendant, he will render
himself amenable to the process of the court thereon. The under­
taking, when accepted, shall be returned to the clerk's office, and
the defendant discharged. 
SEC. 15~. EXCEPTIONS TO SC'FFICIENCY OF BAIL. 
The plaintifff, or his attorney, may object to the bail for insuf- 
ficiency, at any time within ten days after the undertaking of the
bail has been given; within such time he shall serve upon the
sheriff a written notice that he does not accept the bail, or he shall 
be deemed to have accepted it, and the sheriff shall be exonerated
from liability. When the undertaking is given after the return of 
the order of arrest, the plaintifff shall have notice thereof. 
SEC. 159. JuSTIFICATION_:_NOTICE. 
On the receipt of such notice, the sheriff or defendant may,
within ten days thereafter, give to the plaintifff, or his attorney, no­
tice in writing of the justification of the same, or other bail, before
a judge, or clerk of the court in which the action is brought, a pro­
bate judge, or justice of the peace, at a specified time and place;
the time to be not less than five nor more than ten days thereafter. 
In case other bail be given, there must be a new undertaking. 
SEC. 160. MA.."{NER OF .JUSTIFICATION. 
For the purpose of justification, each of the bail must attend be­
fore the proper officer at the time and place mentioned, and may
be examined on oath or affirmation touching his sufficiency, in such
manner as the officer may think proper. 
SEC. 161. ALLOWANCE OF BAIL. 
If the officer find the bail sufficient, he shall indorse his allow­
ance on the undertaking, and cause the same to be filed with the
clerk; and the sheriff shall thereupon be discharged from liability. 
SEC. 162. 8KERIFF WHEN LIAilLE AB BAIL1 BOW DISOHARGED. 
· Ir after being arrested, the defendant escape or be rescued, or
bail be not taken, or be adjudged insufficient, or a deposit be not
made, the sheriff shall be liable as bail. But he may discharge
himself from liability by putting in sufficient bail at any time be­
fore judgment. 
SEC. 163. LIABILITY OF SHERIFF HOW FIXED A~D SUED. 
The return of "not found" upon an execution age.inst the body
of the defendant, shall be necessary to fix the liability of the sheriff
as bail, which liability shell be the amount of the judgment, inter­
est and costs. This liability can be enforced only in a separate 
action against him, or agatnst him and his sureties on his official
bond, as in other cases of delinquency. 
SEC. 164. BAIL ADJUDGED INSUFFIOIENT1 LIABLE TO SHERIFF. 
The bail adjudged insufficient, shall be liable to the sheriff for
the damages he may sustain by reaso~ of such insufficiency. 
SEC. 165. LIABILITY OP BAIL HOW FIXED .um SUED. · 
The liability of the bail shall be fixed in the manner provided in
section one hundred and sixty-three, for fixing the liability of the 
sheriff as bail, and the bail can be proceeded against in an action
only. 
SEC. 166. 8URRENDE.R IN DISCHARGE OF BAIL. 
A surrender of the defendant to the sheriff of the county in
which he was arrested, with a delivery of a certified copy of the
undertaking of the bail, whether such surrender be made by the
defendant himself or by his bail, shall discharge the bail; such sur­
render may be made at any time before the return day of the sum­
mons in an action against the bail. The sheriff shall give to the
bail a written acknowledgment of the surrender, and hold the de­
fendant in his custody upon said copy of the undertaking of the
bail, as upon an order of arrest. On the production of the sheriff's 
acknowledgment of the surrender to the clerk of the court, an ex­ 
oneration of the bail shall be entered on his undertaking. 
SEC. 16 7. BAIL HAY ARREST DEFENDANT. 
For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail, at any
time or place, before he is finally charged, may himself arrest him,
or by a written authority indorsed on a certified copy of the mi­
dertaking, may empower any person of suitable age and discretion
to do so.' 
SEC. 168. WHEN DAIL HAY BE EXONERATED. 
The bail will be exonerated by the death of the defendant, or
his imprisonment in a state prison, or by his legal discharge from 
the obligation to render himself amenable to the process of the
court, or by his surrender to the sheriff of the county in which he 
was arrested in execution thereof, within the time fixed in sec/ion
one hundred and sixty-six, or within such further time as the court
in which the action is pending may allow. 
a. In an action against special bail, judgment was entered against the princl­
pal, at the April term, and exeoutioa issued thereon, and returned "not found"
and suit commenced against the bail, in which summons was issued returnable
on the 10th, and served on the 3d of September, and duly returned; and Sep­
tember 29th default of the bail for answer to the petition was entered upon the
docket by order of the court, and cause continued to the October term; during
which, on the 8th of October, the bail, without showing cause arising previous
to their becoming finally charged, obtained leave of court, and surrendered
their principal. Held: 
Ist, That the bail having become finally charged, and their undertaking being
no longer conditional, such order of court did not give them legal authority to
surrender their 'principal in discharge of their liability. 
2d. That an answer filed by the bail setting forth such surrender of the prin­
cipal in accordance with the order so made by the court, does not show a. legal
defense to the action. 
3d. 'rha.t the court refusing to bear proof of such surrender, upon a motion
filed with their answer by the bail for exoneration, and overruling the motion,
and holding the facts so stated in their answer to be an insufficient defense, and
refusing to set aside the default, did not show an improper exercise by the
court of its legal discretion. Whetstone and Price v. Riley, 7 0. St. 514. 
SEC. 169. B,UL SUBSTITUTED FOR. MONEY DEPOSITED. . 
If money be deposited by the defendant in his discharge, bail
may be given and justified upon notice as prescribed in section one
hundred and fifty-nine, at any time before judgment; and there­
upon the court in which the action is brought, on being satisfied
that the bail has been given and adjudged sufficient, shall direct
that the money deposited be refunded to the defendant, and it 'must 
be refunded accordingly. 
SEC. 170. 8TAY OF PROCEEDINGS AGAINST BAIL-DISCHARGE. 
If, at any time before or after judgment age.inst the bail, proceed­
ings in error are commenced, on the judgment against the princi­
pal in the suit, in which their undertaking was taken, the court
may on motion, stay proceedings against such bail for a reasonable 
• time, on their paying all the costs that have accrued against them:
and if, on such proceedings; the judgment against the principal 
shall be reversed, and the principal discharged from said suit, the
bai\ shall be discharged from tho undertaking. 
SEC. 171. MODE OF VACATING ORDER OR REDCCING AllOONT OF BAIL. 
A defendant arrested, may at any time before the justification of
the bail, apply on motion to the court in which the suit is brought,
if in session, and in vacation, to a judge thereof, or to any judge of
a court of record of the state, to vacate the order of arrest, or to
reduce the amount of the bail. Reasonable notice of such motion
must be given to the plaintifff. 
1 
SEC. ] i2. :MOTION TO VACATE OB REDUCE MAY BE SUPPORTED A.ND OPPOSED BY
AFPIDA VITS. 
If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of the defend­
ant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by affida­
vits or other evidence, in addition to that on which the order of ar­ 
rest was made. 
SEC. 173. JAIL IPBU-HOW PAID. 
Any person causing another to be committed to jail under the
provisions of this chapter, shall be liable, in the first instance, for
the jail fees, and shall, if. required by the jailer, pay such fees
weekly in advance; and such fees, so paid, shall be a part of the
costs of the case. 
SEC. 174. WHEN DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY HAY BE CLADIED. 
The plaintifff in an action to recover the possession of specific
personal property, may at the commencement of the suit, or at any
time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such property, 
a.s provided in this chapter.1 
SEC. 175. CAUSES POR DELIYERY-AFFIDAVIT. 
An order for the delivery of property to the plaintifff, shall be 
made by the clerk of the court in which the action is brought,
when there is filed in his office an affidavit of the plaintifff, his agent 
or attorney, showing:
1. A description of the property claimed:
2. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property, or has a spe­ 
cial ownership . or hiterest therein, stating the facts in relation 
thereto, and that he is entitled to the immediate possession of the
property: 
3. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant:
4. That it was not taken in execution on any order or judgment 
against said plaintifff, or for the payment of any tax, fine or amerce­
ment assessed against him, or by virtJe of aa order of delivery is­
sued under this chapter, or any other mesne or final process issued
against said plaintifff.' 
a. In an action to recover the possession of specific personal property the
preliminary affidavit required by section 175 of the Code, may be amended on
notice, before trial; and the costs of the motion to set aside the order of deliv­
ery, as well as the costs of the motion to amend, should be charged to the plain­
tiff, but no other costs. Van Halen v. Ridgway, 1 Wes. Law Monthly, 280. 
SEC. I 76. 0RDE& OF DELIVERY-<:ONTBNTS-TO W'HOll DIRECTED. 
The order for the delivery of the property to the plaintifff shall
be addressed and delivered to the sheriff. It shall state the names
of the parties, the court in which the action is brought, and com­
mand the sheriff' to take the property, describing it, and deliver it
to the plaintifff, and to make return of the order on a day to be
named therein. 
SEC. 177. WHEX ORDER RETURNABLE. 
The return day of the order of delivery, when issued at the com­
mencement of the suit, shall be the same as that of the summons;
when issued afterward, it shall be twenty days after it issued. 
SEC. 178. How ORDER EXECUTED. 
The sheriff shall execute the order by taking the property there­
in mentioned. He shall also deliver a. copy of the order to the 
person charged with the unlawful detainer of the property, or
leave such copy at his usual place of residence. 
SEC. 179. PLAINTIFF To· GIVB A.....'i' UNDBRTAKINO. 
The sheriff or other officer, shall not deliver to the plaintifff, his
agent, or attorney, the property so taken, until there has been ex­ 
ecuted by one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintifff, a written 
undertsking to the defendant in, at least, double the value of the .
property taken, to the effect, that the plaintifff shall duly prosecute
the action and pay all costs and damages, which may be awarded
against him. The undertaking shall be returned with the order. 
a. It is not necessary to the ~lidity of an undertaking in replevin, that it
should be signed by the ~rincipal If signed by the surety, only, it is good;
the judgment against the principal binding him. Rhodenbaugh e, Carey, 1
Wes. Law Monthly, 599. 
b. Where an undertaking in replevin is for less than dou blo the value of the
appraised property, it is not thereforee void. 'l'he defendant may waive such
defect and accept the bond; and the obligors are bound thereby. It is no de­
fense to such an undertaking for the surety and obliger, to show that the pen·
alty is less than double the value of the aforesaid property under the 143d sec·
tion of the justices' Code. lb. 
SEC. 180. VALUE OF PROPERTY HOW FIXED. 
For the purpose of fixing the amount of the undertaking, the
value of the . property taken, shall be ascertained by the oath of 
two or more responsible persons, whom the sheriff or other officer,
shall swear truly to assess the value thereof. 
SEC. 181. OFFICERS' Dt.:TY AND LIAB1UTY1 IF UNDERTAKING IS NOT GIV&~. 
If the undertaking required by section one hundred and seventy­ 
nine, be not given, within twenty-four hours from the taking of the 
property under said order, the sheriff or other officer shall return
the property to the defendant. And if the sheriff or other officer
deliver any property, so taken, to the plaintifff, his agent, or attor­
ney, or keep the same from the defendant, without taking such se­
curity within the time aforesaid, or if he take insufficient security, 
he shall be liable to the defendant in damages. 
SEC. 182. QUALIF'ICATIO~S OF SURETIES. EXCEPTIONS. 
The defendant may within twenty-four hours from the time the
undertaking referred to in the preceding section is given by the
plaintifff, give notice.to the sheriff, that he excepts to the sufficiency
of the sureties. If he fail to do so, he must be deemed to have
waived all objections to them. When the defendant excepts, the
sureties must justify upon notice, as bail on arrest. · The sheriff 
or other officer shall be-responaible for the sufficiency of the sure­
ties until the objection to them is waived as above provided or 
until they justify. The property shall be delivered to the plaintifff
when the undertaking required by section one hundred and seventy­ 
nine has been given. 
SEC. 183. PROCEBDIYOS IN THE ACTION. 
If the property have been delivered to the plaintifff and judg­
ment be rendered against him, on demurrer, or if he otherwise fail
to prosecute his action to final judgment, the court shall, on appli­
cation of the defendant or his attorney, impannel a jury to inquire
into the right of property and right of possession of the defend­
ant to the property ta.ken. If the jury shall be satisfied, that said 
'property wa.s the property of the defendant, at the commencement
of the action, or if they shall find that the defendant was entitled
to the possession only of the same, at such time, then, and in either
case, they shall assess such damages for the defendant, as are right 
and proper; for which, wi!h costs of suit, the court shall render
judgment for the defendant. 
• 
SEC. 184. WHBN JURY HUST Fl~D RIGHT OF PROPERTY OR RIGHT OP POSSESION. 
In all cases, when the property has been delivered to the plain­
tiff, where the jury shall find upon issue joined, for the defendant,
they shall ~l\o find, whether the defendant had the right of propety
or the right of possession only, at the commencement of the suit;
and if they find either in his favor, they sh~l assess such damages
as they think right and proper for the defendant; for which, with
costs of suit, the court shall render judgment for the defendant. 
SEC. 185." WHES DAlU.GES HAY DB ASSESSED FOR ILLEGAL DETENTION. 
In all cases, when the property has been delivered to the plain. tiff, where the jury shall find for the plaintifff, on an issue joined, 
or on inquiry of damages upon a judgment by default; they shall 
assess adequate damages to the plaintifff' for the illegal detention 
of the property, for which, with costs of suit, the court shall ren­
der judgment for the defendant. 
SEC. 186. PROCEEDINGS WHEN PROPERTY IS NOT DELIVERED TO' THE PLAINTIFF. 
When the property claimed, has not been taken, or has been re­
turned to the defendant by the sheriff', for want of the undertaking
required by section one hundred and seventy-nine, the action may
proceed as one for damages only, and the plaintifff shall be ff)-titled
to such damages as are right and proper; but if the property be
returned for want of the undertaking required by section one hun­
dred and seventy-nine, the plaintifff' shall pay all costs made by tak­
ing the same. 
SEC. 187. 0RDBB FOR. DBLIVBRY MAY I88UB TO DIFPBRBNT COUNTIES. 
An order may be directed to any other county than the one in
which the action is brought, for the delivery of. the property 
claimed. Several orders may issue at the same time, or succes­
sively, at the option of the plaintifff; but only one of them shall be
taxed in the costs, unless otherwise ordered by the court. 
a. Where two write issue on one affidavit, in replevin, the issuing of the sec­
ond writ does not invalidate or render void the first, or the proceedings under
it. Rhodenbaugh e, Carey, l Wee. Law Monthly, 599. 
SEC. 188. WHEN OFFICER MAY BREAK OPEN BUILDINGS. 
The sheriff or other officer in the execution of the order of de­
livery, may break open any building or enclosure, in which the
property claimed or any part thereof, is concealed; but not until
he has been refused an entrance into said building or enclosure
and the delivery of the property, after having demanded the same. 
SEC; 1~9. WHEN ACTION :MAY BE BROUGHT ON THE UNDERTAKING. 
No suit shall be instituted on the undertaking given under sec­
tion one hundred and seventy-nine, before an execution issued on
a judgment in favor of the defendant in the action, shall have been
returned, that sufficient property, whereon to levy and make the 
amount of such judgment, can not be found in the county. 
SEC. }90. WHEN ORDER MAY BE SET ASI»E1 AT CLERK'S COST. 
Any order for the delivery of property issued under section one
hundred and seventy-five, without the affidavit required thereby,
shall be set aside at the cost of the clerk issuing the same, and
such clerk, as well as the plaintifff, shall also be liable .in damages 
to the party injured. 
SEC. 191. GRO~DS C'PO::'i WHICH PLAI:STIFF1 IN A CIVIL ACTION FOR THE RECOV·
IRY OF MONEY, MAY HAVE A:S ATTACHMENT. 
The plaintifff in a civil action for the recovery of money, may,
at or after the commencement thereof, have an attachment against
the property of the defendant, and upon the grounds herein stated. 
1. When the defendant, or one of several defendants, is a for­
eign corporation or a non-resident of this state; or, 
2. Has absconded with the intent to defraud his creditors; or,
3. Has left the county of his residence, to avoid the service of 
a summons; or,
4. So conceals himself that a summons can not be served upon 
him; or,
5. Is about to remove his property, or a part thereof, out of the 
jurisdiction of the court, with the intent to defraud his creditors; or,
6. Is about to convert his property, or a part thereof, into money, 
for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of his creditors; or, 
7. Has property, or rights" in action, which he conceals; or, 
8. Has assigned, removed, or disposed of, or is about to dispose
of, his property, or a. :eart thereof, with the intent to defraud his 
creditors; or,
9. Fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred the obligation 
for which suit is about to be, or has been brought. But an attach­
ment shall not be granted on the ground that the defendant is a
foreign corporation or a non-resident of this state, for any claim
other than a debt or demand arising upon contract, judgment, or
decree.1 
SEC. H)2. AFFIDAVIT FOR A.'i' ATTACHMENT. 
An order of attachment shall be made by the clerk of the court,
in which the action is brought, in any case mentioned in the pre­
ceding section, when there is filed in his office an affidavit of the
plaintifff, his agent, or attorney, showing: 
1. The nature of the plaintifff's claim:
2. That ft is just :
3. The amount which the afliant believes the plaintifff ought to 
recover : and,
4. The existence of some one of the grounds for an attachment, 
enumerated in the preceding section. 
1 
a. An affidavit, stating the amount due to t~ plaintifff'; for what it is doe;
that it is justly due; that the plaintifff' ought to recover, and that the defendant is 
SEC. 193. WHEN A.'lf UNDERTAKING REQUIRED, WHEN NOT REQUIRED. 
When the ground of the attachment is, that.\he defendant is a
foreign corporation, or a non-resident of this state, the order of
attachment may be issued without an undertaking. 
In all other cases, the order of attachment shall not be issued
by the clerk, until there has been executed in his office, by one or
more sufficient sureties of the plaintifff, to be approved by the clerk, 
an undertaking not exceeding double the amount of the plaintifff's
claim, to the effect that the plaintifff shall pay 'the defenTt all 
damages, which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, if the
order be wrongfully obtained.' 
• 
a. The defendant in attachment, when a Tight of action has accrued upon
the undertaking filed by the plaintifff, under section 193 of the Code, is not re­
quired to ask leave of the court to obtain the possession of the undertaking,
before he can commence his action. Bruce v. Coleman, 1 Handy, 515. 
b. The action upon the undertaking does not preclude the defendant from in­
stituting another suit for a malicious prosecution. lb. 
• c. It is sufficient to aver in the petition, that the attachment was wrongfully 
obtained, nor is it necessary to state that the attachment was sued out without
probable cause. It must appear, however, that the attachment has been dis­ 
missed by the court, or abandoned by the plaintifff. lb.
d. An action can he maintained upon the undertaking, and a recovery had 
for the damages the defendant may have sustained, though the amount sought
to be recovered has not been already ascertained in another suit. lb. 
e. In an action upon the undertaking, the recovefY should be limited to" such
damages, as the defendant in attachment may have suffered from being deprived
of his property, it.a loss, destruction, or deterioration, with the costs and ex­
penses he has incurred in the defense of the original suit i for all other dam­ 
ages he must resort to his action on the case. lb. 
SEC. 194. ORDER OF ATTACHMENT Tp WHOM DIREOTED-ITS CO)l)IAND. 
: The order of attachment shall be directed and delivered to the
sheriff. It shall require him to attach the lands, tenements, goods,
chattels, stocks or interest in stocks, rights, credits, monies, and
effects of the defendant in his county, not exempt by law from be­
ing applied to the payment of the plaintifff's claim, or so much
thereof as will satisfy the plaintifff's claim, to be stated in the order
as in the affidavit, and the probable costs of the action, not exceed­
ing fifty dollars. 
2 
SEC. 195. ORDERS HAY ISSUE TO DIFFERENT COUNTIES. 
Orders of attachment may be issued to the sheriffs of different
counties; and several of them may, a.t the option of the plaintifff,
be issued at the same time, or in succession: but such only as have
been executed, shall be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise' directed
by the court. 
SEC. 196. WHEY ORDER RETURNABLE. 
The return day of the order of attachment, when issued at the
commencement of the action, shall be the same as that of the sum­
mons; when issued afterward, it shall be twenty days after it 
issued. 
Sscrrox 197. When seeeral orders issue, in wha.t manner executed .
198. How order executed. 
199. Property when attached may be delivered to the person with
whom it is found.-When lost, value remitted. 
200. Proceedings against garnishee.
201. How garnishee served. 
202. Attachments on same property.
203. How property attached upon subsequent attachments.
204. Return of the order of attachment.
205. What time property and garnishee bound. 
SEC. 197. WHEN SEVERAL ORDERS ISSUE1 HOW KXECt:TBD. 
When there are several ordeas of attachment against the same
defendant, they shall be executed in the order in which they were
received by the sheriff.1 
• 
EXECUTION AND RETURN THEREOF. 
SEC. 198. How ORDER EXECUTED. 
SUBDIVISION III. 
The order of attachment shall be executed by the sheriff w.ith­
out delay. He shall go to the place where the defendant's prop- 
erty may be found, and there, in the presence of two freeholders
of the county, declare that, by virtue of said order, he attaches
said .property at the suit of such plaintifff; and the officer, with the
said freeholders, who shall be first sworn or affirmed by the officer,­
shall ma.k.e a true inventory and appraisement of al} the property
attached, which shall be signed by the officer and freeholders, and
returned with the order .. 
Where the property attached is real property, the officer shall
leave with the occupant thereof, or, if there be no occupant, in a
conspicuous place thereon, a copy of the order. 
Where it is personal property, and can be come at, he shall take
the same into his custody, and hold it subject to the order of the
court.1 
SEC. 199. PROPERTY ATTACHED MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE PERSON WITH WHOli
FOUND.-WHEN LOST VALUE MAY BB REMITTED. 
The sheriff shall deliver the property attached to the person in
whose possession it was found, upon the execution by such person,
in the presence of the sheriff, of an undertaking to the plaintifff,
with one or more sufficient sureties, resident in the county, to the
effect that the parties to the same are bound, in double the ap­ 
praised value thereof, that the property, or its appraised value in
money, shall be forthcoming to answer the judgment of the court in
the action; but if it shall appear to the court, that any part of said
property has been lost or destroyed by unavoidable accident, the
value thereof shall be remitted to the person so bound. 
a. Where the interest of the defendant in the property attached is less than·
the whole, the penalty of the bond will be double the appraised value of such
interest, and not double the value of the property. Stewart & Co. e, Hunter & 
Moore, ·1 Handy, 22. 
b. An undertaking on the part of a defendant, given to release property from
an attachment levied by a sheriff' or officer, is valid as a common law security,
though no appraisement is made, and the security is approved by the sheriff', in­
stead of the court, during the term of the court in which the attachment is re­
turnable. Bhelden e, Sharpless, 1 Wee. Law Monthly, 42. 
SEC. 200. PROCBBDINGS AGAINST GARNISBBB. 
When the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, shall make oath, in
writing, that he has good reason to, and does, believe that any
person or corporation, in said affidavit named, has property of she
defendant in his possession ( describing the same ),.if the officer can
not get possession of such property, he shall leave with such gar- 
nishee a. copy of the order of attachment, with a written notice
that he appear in court and answer as provided in section two hun­
dred and fourteen. Ifthe garnishee shall not reside in the county
in which the order of attachment shall be issnedcthe process shall
be served by the proper officer of the county in which the garni­
shee shall reside, and the answer of the garnishee shall be made
before the clerk of the court of common pleas of the county in
which the garnishee may reside, within the time required for the
filing of answers by garnishees. Any special examination of such
garnishee, which may be ordered by the court, shall be in the county
in which he may reside, and should suit be brought against such
garnishee, under the provisions of section two hundred and eighteen
of this act, such suit shall be brought in the county in which the
garnishee shall reside. The clerk of the court of common pleas
before whom the answer aforesaid shall be made, shall transmit the
same to the clerk of the court in which the suit shall be commenced,
in the same ma.nner as depositions are required to be directed and
transmitted, and shall receive for his services such fees as are al­
lowed by law for taking depositions, and to clerks for furnishing
certificates, with their seals of office attached. In all cases in
which the garnishee shall admit an indebtedness to the defendant,
and the court shall order the payment of the same, or any part
thereof, to the plaintifff, if the garnishee shall not pay the same ac­
cording to such order, execution may issue thereon as upon judg­
ments for the payment of money. The service of process upon a
sheriff, coroner, constable, master commissioner, marshal of an in­
corporated city or village, or othen officer having any money, claim,
or other property of the defendant in his possession, or in which
the defendant may have any interest, shall bind the same from the
time of such service, and shall be a legal excuse to such officers to
the extent of the demand of the plaintifff, for not paying such 
money or delivering such claim, or property, to the defendant as by
law, or the terms of the process in his hands, he would otherwise
be bound to do. (As amended March 17, 1856. 58 0. L. 23.) 
a. For original section 200, see 51 0. L. 89.
SEC. 201. How GAUl8HBE. SERVED. 
The copy of the order and the notice shall be served upon the
garnishee, as follows: If he be a. person, they shall. be served upon 
him personally, or left at his usual place of residence; if a corpo­
ration, they shall be left with the president, or other head of the
same, or the secretary, cashier, or managing a.gent thereof. 
SEC. 202. ATTACHYEXTS OY SAllE PROPERTY. 
Different attachments of the same property may be made by the
same officer, and one inventory and a.ppraisement shall be sufficien\
and it shall not be neces;ary to retum the same with more than 
one order. 
SEC.203. How PROPERTY ATTACHED UPON SUBSEQUENT ATTACHMENTS. 
. .
Where the property is under attachment, it shall be attached 
under subsequent orders, as follows : 
1. H it be real property, it shall be attached, in the manner pre­
scribed in section one hundred and ninety-eight. 
2. If it be personal property, it shall be attached, as in the hands
of the officer, and subject to any previous attachment. 
3. If the same person or corporation be made a garnishee, a
,copy of the order and notice shall be left with him, in the manner 
prescribed in section two hundred. 
Sm 204. RETCRN OF THE ORDER OF .ATTACBHBNT. 
The officer shall return upon every order of attachment, what
he has done under it. The return must show the property at­
tached and the time it was attached. When garnishees are served,
their names and the time each was served, must be stated. The
officer shall, also, return wuh the order all undertakings given un­ 
der it. 
SEC. 205. WHAT TllfE PROPERTY A.lfD O.ilNlSHD,.BOUND. 
An order of attachment binds the property attached froin the
time of service, and the garnishee shall stand liable to the plaintiffF
in attachment for all property, monies, and credits in his hands, 
or due from him to the defendant, from the time he is served with
the written notice mentioned in section two hundre4 ; but where
the property is attached in the hands of a consignee, his lien· there­
on shall not be affected by the attachment.1 
SEC. 206. RBCEIV~"R MAY BB APPOINTED. · 
The court or any judge thereof during vacation, may, on the
application of the plaintifff, and on good cause shown, appoint a
receiver, who shall take an oath faithfully to discharge his duty,
and shall give an undertaking to the state of Ohio, in such sum as
the court or judge may direct, and with such security as shall be
approved by the clerk of such court, for the faithful performance
of his duty, as such receiver, and to pay over all money and ac-.
count for all property, which may come into his hands by virtue
of his appointment, at such times and in such manner as the court
may direct. 
a. Sec. 253 and notes. 
SEC. 207. DUTIBS AND POWERS OF RECEIVER. 
Such receiver shall take possession of all notes, due-bills, books
of account, accounts, and all other evidences of debt, that have
been taken by the sheriff or other officer, as the property of the
defendant in attachment, and shall proceed to settle and collect the
same. For that purpose, he may commence and maintain actions
in his own name as such receiver; but in such actions, no right of
defense shall be impaired or affected. 
SF.C.· 208. NOTICE OF APPOl~TllENT. 
Such receiver shall forthwith give notice of his appointment to
the persons indebted to the defendant in attachment. The notice
shall be written or printed, and shall be served on the debtor or 
debtors, by copy personally, or by copy left at the residence ; and
from the date of such service, the debtors shall stand liable to the 
plaintifff in attachment for the amount of monies and credits in
their hands, or due from them to the defendant in attachment, and
shall account therefore to the receiver. 
SEC. 209. REPORT OF .RBCBIVD. 
Such receiver shall, when required, report his proceedings to the
court, and hold all monies collected by him and property which
may come into his hands, subject to the order of the -court, 
SEC. 210. WHEN SH-BRIFF TO ACT AS RBOBIV'BR. 
Where a receiver is not appointed by the court or a judge thereof,
as provided in section two hundred and six, the sheriff or other of­
ficer attaching the property shall have all the powers and perform
all the duties of a receiver appointed by the court or a judge, and
may, if necessary, commence and maintain actions in his own name, 
as such officer. He may be required to give security other than
his official undertaking. 
8BO. 211. PROPBBTY Aff..l.CHBD ROW DISP08BD OF. 
The court shall make proper orders for the preservation of the
property during the pendency of the suit. It may direct a sale of
property, when, because of its perishable nature or the costs of 
keeping it, a sale will be for the benefit of the parties. In vaca­
tion, such sale may be ordered by the judge of the eonrt, The
sale shall be public, after such advertisement as is prescribed for
the sale of like property on execution, and shall be made in such
manner, and upon such terms of credit, with security, as the court
or judge, having regard to the probable duration of the action, may
direct. The proceeds, if collected by the sheriff, with all the mon­
eys received by him for garnishees, shall be held and paid over by
him, under the same requirement and responsibilities of himself
and sureties, as are provided in respect to money deposited in lieu
of bail.1 
SUBDIVISION V. 
PROCEEDINGS UPON ATTACHMENT. 
SBOTION 212. How attachment discharged.
213. Attachment may be discharged in vacation.
214. Proceedings by o.nd against garnishee.
215. Garnishee may pay money into court or to sheriff'.
216. Garnishee may be attach~ for contempt. 
217. Disposition of property in hands of garnishee.
218. Plaintiff' may appear in action against garnishee.
219. ,4.s to the action against garnishee.
220. Eft'ect of judgment for defendant.
221. Proceedings after judgment for plaintifff'.
2'J2. Delivery of property attached enforced by attachment.
·223. Officer may repolM88 him1elf of attached property.
224. When property is claimed by third person.-Proceedings 
in such cue.
225. How priorities determined. 
SBO. 212. How ATTAOIDIBNT DIIOBARGBD. 
If the defendant; or other person on his behalf, at any time be- 
fore judgment, cause an undertaking to be executed to the plain­ 
tiff" by one or more sureties, resident in the county, to be approved
by the court, in double the amount of the plaintifff's claim, as stated 
in his affidavit, to the effect that the defendant shall perform. the.
judgment of the court, the attachment in such action shall be dis­ 
charged, and restitution made of any property taken under it, or
the proceeds thereof. Such undertaking shall also discharge the
liability of a garnishee in such action for any property of the de­ 
fendant in his hands. 
a. 'I'he execution of the undertaking provided by section 212, does not estop
the defendant from moving to discharge the attachment. Egan 11. Lumsden, 4 
Law Gaz. 161. 
SEC. 213. ATTACHMENT MAY BB DISCHARGED IS VACATIOY. 
The undertaking mentioned in the last section, may, in-vacation,
be executed in the presence of the sheriff having the order of at­
tachment in his hands, or, after the return of the order, before the
clerk, with the same effect as if executed in court : the sureties in
either case to be approved by the officer before whom the under­
taking is executed. 
SEC. 214. PROOEBDINOS BY AND AGAINST GARNISHEE. 
The garnishee shall appear as follows : If the order of attach­
ment be returned during a term of the court and twenty days be­
fore the close thereof, he shall appear at that term ; if the order
be returned during vacation, he shall appear at the term next after
its return. He shall. appear and answer, under oath, all questions
put to him touching the property of every description and credits
of the defendant, in his possession or under his control, and he
shall disclose, truly, the amount owing by him to the defendant,
whether due or not, and in the case of a corporation, any stock
therein held by or for the benefit of the defendant, at or after the
service of notice. · 
SEC. 215. GARNISHEE lliY PAY MONEY INTO COURT OR TO SHERIFF. 
A garnishee may pay the money owing to the defendant by
him, to the sheriff having the order of attachment, or into the court. 
He shall be discharged from liability to the defendant, for any
money so paid, not exceeding the plaintifff's claim. He shall not 
be subjected to costs beyond those caused by his resistance of the
claim against him ; and if he disclose the property in his hands, or 
. the true amount owing by him, and deliver or pay the same accord­
ing to the order of the court, he shall be allowed his costs. 
SEC. 216. GARNISHEE MAY BE ATTACHED FOB CONTDPT. 
If the garnishee do not appear in court and answer, as required
by section two hundred and fourteen, the court may proceed
against him by attachment as for a contempt. 
SEC. 217. DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY IN HA.."iDS OF GARNISHEE. 
If the garnishee appear and answer, and it is discovered on his
examination that, at or after the service of the order of attachment
and notice upon him, he was possessed of any property of the de­
fendant, or was indebted to him, the court may order the delivery
of such property and the payment of the amount owing by the
garnishee, into the court; or the court may permit the garnishee
to retain the property or the amount owing, upon the execution of
an undertaking to the plaintifff by one or more sufficient sureties,
to the effect, that the amount shall be paid, or the property forth­
coming, as the court may direct. 
a. In attachment proceedings, the garnishee is not, during the pendency of
the same, thereby necesaarily exempted from an exiRting liability to pay inter­ 
est upon his indebtedness t.o the defendant in attachment. Candee & Scribner 
e, Webster, 9 0. St.
b. A canse of exemption in such case, will not be presumed in favor of the 
garnishee, but must be shown to exist like any other defense. lb. 
SEC. 218. PLAINTIFF HAY APPEAR IN ACTION AGAINST GARNISHEE. 
If the garnishee fail to appear and answer, or if he appear and
answer, and his disclosure is not satisfactory to the plaintifff; or if
he fail to comply with the order of the court to deliver the prop­
erty and pay the money owing, into court, or give the undertaking
required in the preceding section, the plaintifff may proceed against 
him in an action, by filing a petition in his own name, as in other
cases, and causing a summons to be issued upon it; and thereupon
such proceedings may be bad as in other actions, and judgment
may be rendered in favor of the plaintifff, for the amount of the
property and credits of every kind of the defendant in the posses- 
sion of the garnishee, and for what shall appear to be owing by him
to the defendant, and for the costs of the proceedings against the
garnishee. If the plaintifff' proceed against the garnishee by ac­
tion, for the cause that his disclosure was unsatisfactory, unless it
appear in · the action that such disclosure was incomplete, the plain­
tiff shall pay the costs of such action. The judgment in this ac­
tion may be enforced as judgments in other cases. When the 
claims of the plaintifffs in attachment are satisfied, the defendant
in attachment may, on motion, be substituted as the plaintifff' in the
judgment. 
SEC. 219. THE ACTION AGAINST OARNISHEB. 
Final judgment shall not be rendered against the garnishee un­
til the action against the defendant in attachment has been determ­
ined; and if in such action judgment be rendered for the de­
f'edant in attachment, the garnishee shall be discharged and re·
cover costs. If the plaintifff shall recover against the defendant
in attachment, and the garnishee shall deliver up all •the property,
monies and credits of the defendant in his possession, and pay all
the monies from him due, as the court may order, the garnishee
shall be discharged, and the costs of the proceedings against him
shall be paid out of the property and monies so surrendered, or
as the court may think right and proper. 
SEC. 220. EFFECT OF JUDGHEXT FOR DEFENDANT. 
If judgment be rendered in the action for the defendant, the at­
tachment shall be discharged, and the property attached, or its pro­
ceeds, shall be returned to him. 
SEC. 221. PROCF;EDl~GS AFTER Jl"DGll~T FOR PLAIXTIFF. 
If judgment be rendered for the plaintifff, it shall be satisfied as
follows : So much of the property remaining in the hands of the
officer, after applying the monies arising from the sale of perish­
able property, and so much of the personal property and lands and
tenements, if any, whether held by legal or equitable title, as may
be necessary to satisfy the judgment, shall be sold by order of the
court, under the same restrictions and regulations as if the same
had been levied on by execution; and the money arising therefrom,
with the amount which may be recovered from the garnishee, shall 
be applied to satisfy the judgment and costs. H there be not
enough to satisfy the same, the judgment shall stand, and execu­
tion may issue thereon, for the residue, in all respects as in other
cases. Any surplus of the attached property, or its proceeds, shall
be returned to the defendant. 
a. The Code does not appear to have provided for a sale of mere evidences of indebtedness, such as notes, due-bills, or accounts, etc. The remedy provided is
to settle and collect, either through a receiver, or the sheriff acting as such.
Notice is to be given to the debton, and the debts collected by action. 'l'he
debtor is charged by the notice. Finnell v. Burt, 2 Handy, 203. 
6. The court is not authorized to order a sale of mere evidences of indebtedness
found in the hands of garnishees. lb. 
c. The court may order a sale of that class of securities which from their na­
ture can not be collected as debts, or which have been constituted articles of
sale, or framed for the purpose of being disposed of in the market, and which
have a marketable value. Ex gra. stocks, annuities for life or years, govern­
ment securities, or securities issued by corporations, where the principal is not
payable for a long period of time. If>. 
SEC. 222. DBLiffiY OF PROPERTY ATTACHED--BNFORCBD BY ATTACHMENT. 
The court may compel the dellvery to the sheriff, for sale, of any
of the attached property for which an undertaking may have beeu
given, and may proceed summarily on such undertaking to enforce
the delivery of the property, or the payment of such sum as may
be due upon the. undertaking, by rules and attachments as in cases 
of contempt. 
SEC. 223. OFFICER MAY REPOSSJalS BlMS.BLF OF ATTAOBBD PROPERTY. 
The court may order the sheriff to repossess himself, for the pur­
pose of selling it, [ of] any of the attached property, which may have
passed out of his hands without having been sold or converted into
money; and the sheriff shall, under such order, have the same
power to take the property, as he would have under an order of
attachment. 
SEC. 224. WHEN PROPERTY 18 CLAIMED BY A THIRD PBRSON-PROCEEDL~GS. 
H personal property which has been attached, be claimed by any
person other than the defendant, it shall be ~he duty of the officer
to have the validity of such claim tried, and such proceedings must 
be had thereon, with the like effect, as in case the property had
been seized upon execution, and claimed by a third person. 
SEC. 225. How P&IORITIU DBTBRlflNED. 
Where several attachments are executed on the same P' operty,
or the same persons are made garnishees, the court on the motion
of any of the plaintifffs, may order a reference to ascertain and re­
port the amounts and priorities of the several attachments. 
, 
SEC. 226. EFFECT OF DKA.TH OF THR DEFE~D.L~T. 
From the time of the issuing of the order of attachment, the
court shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction and to have
control of all subsequent proceedings under this chapter; and if,
after the issuing of the order, the defendant, being a. person, should
die, or a corporation, and its charter should expire by limitation,
forfeiture or otherwise, the proceedings shall be carried on ; but in
all such cases other than where the defendant was a. foreign cor­
p·oration, his legal representatives shall be made parties to the
action. 
SEC. 227. WHEX FGRTHER SECl:'RITY MAY DE REQUIRED OF THE PJ,ATXTIFF. 
The defendant may, at any time before judgment, after reason­
able n•ice to the plaintifff, move the court for additional security
on the part of the plaintifff; and if, on such motion, the court is
satisfied that the surety in the plaintifff's undertaking has removed
from this state, or is not sufficient for the amount thereof, it may
vacate the order of attachment, and direct restitution of any prop­
erty taken under it, unless in a reasonable time to be fixed by the
court, sufficient security is given by the plaintifff. 
SEC. 228. MoTION° TO DISCHARGE .A.TT • .\CHllE~T. 
The defendant may at anytime before judgment, upon reasona­
ble notice to the plaintifff, move to discharge an attachment, as to
the whole or any of the property attached, and the motion may be
heard, and decided by the court in any term or regular session
thereof; or the motion may be made, heard and decided by any 
judge thereof, in vacation. (As amended March 11, 1857. 54
0. L. 29. 
SEC. 229. EVIDBNCE ON" MOTION TO DISCHARGE. 
If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of the defend­
ant, or papers and evidence in the case, but not otherwise, the
plaintifff' may oppose the same by affidavits or other evidence, in
addition to that on which the order of attachment was made.' 
SEC. 230. A TT ACHllENT BEFORE DEBT IS DCEf 
1. Where a debtor has sold, conveyed, or otherwise disposed of
his property, with the fraudulent intent to cheat or defraud his
creditors, or to hinder or delay them in the collection of their
debts, or, ' 
2. Is about to make such sale, conveyance, or disposition of his
property, with such fraudulent intent ; or, 
3.- Is about to remove hie property, or a material part thereof,
with the intent, or to the effect, of cheating or defrauding his cred­
itors, or of hindering or delaying them in the collection of their
debts, a creditor may bring an action on his claim before it is due,
and have an attachment against the property of the debtor. 
SEC. 231. ORDER-BY WHOM GRANTED. 
The attachment authorized by the last section, may be granted
by the court in which the action is brought, or by a judge thereof;
but before such action shall be brought, or such attachment shall
be granted, the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, shall make an oath
in writing, showing the nature and amount of the plaintifff's claim,
that it is just, when the same will become due, and the existence 
of some one of the grounds for attachment, enumerated in the pre· 
ceding seotion. 
SEC. 232. ACTION DISMISSED IP ATTACHMENT REFUSED. 
If the court or judge refuse to grant an order of attachment,
the action shall be dismissed, but without prejudice to a future ac­ 
tion; and in all such actions, application for an attachment must
be made. 
SEC. 233. ORDER TO SPECIFY AMOUNT. 
The order of the court or judge granting the attachment, shall
specify the amount for which it is allowed, not exceeding a sum
sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's claim and the probable costs of
the action. 
SEC. 234. UNDERTAKING. 
The order of attachment, as granted by the court or judge, shall
not be issued by the clerk, until there has been executed in his of­
fice, such undertaking on the pa.rt of the plaintifff, as is· directed by
section one hundred and ninety-three. 
SEC. 235. ACTION TO CONTINUE UNTIL DDT 18 Dt-X. 
The plaintifff in such action shall not have judgment on his claim,
before it becomes due, and the proceedings on attachment may be 
conducted without delay. 
SEC. 236. PROCEEDI:SGS1 HOW REOCLATED. 
The proceedings in the first article of this chapter, subsequent
to section one hundred and ninety-three, including the amendments
heretofore made, or by this act made thereto, shall, so far as they are
applicable, regulate the attachments authorized by this article. (As
amended, March 11, 1857. 54 0. L. 29). 
SEC. 237. lN.TUNOTION-WBAT-ORDER. 
The injunction provided by this Code, is a command to refrain
from a. particular act. It may be the final judgment in an action,
or may be allowed as a provisional remedy; and when so allowed,
it shall be by order. The writ of injunction is abolished. 
SEC. 238. CAUSES FOR AN INJUNCTION; 
When it appears by the petition, that the plaintifff' is entitled to
the relief demanded; and such relief, or any pa.rt thereof, consists
in restraining the commission or continuance of some act, the com­
mission or continuance of which, during the litigation, would pro­
duce great or irreparable injury to the plaintifff', or when, during
the litigation, it appears that the defendant is doing, or threatens,
or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be _done1 some act
in violation of the plaintifff's rights, respecting the subject of the 
action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a temporary 
injunction may be granted to restrain such act. It may also be
granted in any case where it is specially authorized by statute.' 
SEC. 239. WHBN A.'fD BY' WBOX ORANTED-WBBN VACA.TED APPEAL--WBEN AND
BY WHO)[. 
The injunction ma.y be granted at the time of commencing the
action, or at any time afterward, before judgment, by the supreme
court or nny judge thereof, the court of cominon pleas or any judge
thereof, or in the absence from the county of said judges, by the
probate judge thereof, upon its appearing satisfactorily to the
court or judge, by the affidavit of the plaintifff' or his agent, that
the plaintifff is entitled thereto. When the injunction has been al­
lowed, and during the pendency of the action in the court of com­
mon pleas, has been vacated either by a judge in vacation, ·or by
the court previous to the trial of the action, and an appeal is taken,
after such trial, from the judgment or final order of said court to
the district court, an injunction may be granted, at any time before
judgment or final order in the action in the district court, by the
supreme court or any judge thereof, or the district court in which
such action is pending, or any judge of any court of common pleas
in the district where such action is pending, upon its appearing
satisfactorily to the court or judge, by the affidavit of the party or
his agent, that the party is entitled thereto.1 (As amended Feb­
ruary 15, 1858. 55 0. L. 6.) 
SEC. 240. NoT[CE OF APPLlCATIO~. · 
.If the court or judge deem it proper that the defendant, or any
party to the suit, should be heard before granting the injunction,
it may direct a. reasonable. notice to be given to such party to at­ 
tend for such purpose a.t a specified time and place, and may, in
the meantime, restrain such party. 
SEC. 241. NOTICE WHES REQUIRED. 
An injunction shall not be granted against a party, who has an­
swered, unless upon notice ; but such party may be restrained, 
until the decision of the application for an injunction. 
SEC. 242.-UNDERTAKING. 
No injunction, unless otherwise provided by special statute, shall
operate, until the party obtaining the same shall give an undertak­
ing executed by one or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by
the clerk of the court granting such injunction, in an amount to be
fixed by the court or judge allowing the same, to secure to the
party enjoined, the damages he may sustain, if it be finally decided
that the injunction ought not to have been granted. 
SEC. 243. 0RDBR. OF INJUNCTION. 
The order of injunction shall be addressed to the party enjoined,
shall state the injunction, and shall be issued by the clerk. Where 
the injunction is allowed at the commencement of the action, the
clerk shall indorse upon the summons " injunction allowed,". and 
it shall not be necessary to issue. the order of injunction; nor shall
it be necessary to issue the same, where notice of the application
therefore has been given to the party enjoined. The service of the
summons so indorsed, or the notice of the application for an injunc­
tion, shall be notice of its allowance. 
SEC. 244. SERVICE OF INJUNt'TION. 
Where the injunction is allowed during the litigation and with­
out notice of the application therefore, the order of injunction shall
be issued, and the sheriff forthwith serve the same, upon each par­
ty enjoined, in the manner prescribed for serving a summons, and
make return thereof without delay.' 
SEC. 245. WHEN 1:-{JUNCTIOY OPER.tt'ES. 
An injunction binds the party, from the time he has notice
thereof, and the undertaking required by the applicant therefore, is
executed .. 
a. An injunction operates only from the service of the same, or until the de­
fendant receives actual noti?e thereof. Ramsdell v. Cra.ighill et al., 9 0. R. 198. 
SEC. 246. 8ECO?U> APPLICATION J'OR INJ"t'Nt'TION. 
No injunction shall be granted by a judge, after a motion there­
for has been overruled on the merits of the application, by his
court; and where it has been refused by the cour-t in which the ae­
tion is brought, or a judge thereof, it shall not be granted to the 
same applicant, by a court of inferior jurisdiction or any judge
thereof. 
SEC. 24 7. How ENFORCED--DlSOBEDIE:XCE HOW PUNISHED. 
An injunction granted by a judge may be enforced, as the act
of the court. Disobedience of an injunction may be punished, as
a contempt, by the court, or any judge, who might have granted it
in vacation. An attachment may be issued by the court or judge,
upon being satisfied by affidavit of the breach of the injunction,
against the party guilty of the same; and he may be required, in
the discretion of the court or judge, to pay a fine not exceeding
two hundred dollars for the use of the county, to make immediate
restitution to the party injured, and give further security to obey
the injunction; or in default thereof, he may be committed to close
custody, until he shall fully comply with such requirement, or be
otherwise legally discharged.1 
SEC. 248. FURTHER SECURITY MAY BE REQUIRED. 
A party enjoined may, at any time before judgment, upon rea­
sonable notice to the party, who has obtained the injunction, move 
the court for additional security ; and if it appear that the surety
in the undertaking has removed from the state, or is insufficient,
the court may vacate the injunction, unless, in a reasonable time,
sufficient security is given. 
SEC. 249. AFFIDAVITS ON HEARING OF APPLJCA'.l'ION. 
On the hearing of an application for an injunction, each party
may read a~davits. All affidavits shall be filed. 
SEC. 250. INJUNCTION MAY BE VACATED OR MODIFIED BEFORE TRIAL. 
In all cases where an injunction bas been granted, the defendant,
at any time before the trial, may apply to the court in which the
action is brought, or any judge thereof, or to the supreme court, or
any judge thereof, to vacate and modify the, same. The party ap­
plying for such vacation or modification shall give such notice to
the adverse party of the time and place at which such motion will
be heard, as the court or judge hearing the same shall deem rea­
sonable. The application may be made upon the petition and affi­
davits upon which the injunction is granted, or upon affidavits on
the part of the party enjoined, with or without answer. The order
of the judge allowing, dissolving or modifying an injunction, shall
be returned to the office of the clerk of the court in which the ac­
tion is brought and recorded, and obeyed as if made by the court.1 
(As amended, April 15, 1857. 54 0. L. 139.) 
SEC. 251. CoUNTER AFFIDAVITS ON HEARING. 
If the application be made upon affidavits on the part of the de­
fendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same to 
affidavits or other evidence, in addition to that on which the injunc­
tion was granted. 
SEC. 252. DEFENDANT MAY OBTAIN AN INJUNCTION. 
A defendant may obtain an injunction upon 8:D answer in the na- ·
ture of a counterclaim. He shall proceed in the manner prescribed
in this chapter. 
SECTION 253. Receivers when appointed.
254. Who are ineligible.
255. Oath and undertaking. 
SEC. 253. REOEIVERS WHEN APPOINTED. 
A receiver may be appointed by the supreme court, the district
court, or by the courts of common pleas or any judge of either; or,
in the absence of said judges from the county, by the probate judge 
thereof. 
CHAPTER V. 
RECEIVERS Al~D OTHER PROVISIONAL REMEDIE~. 
256. Powers of receiver.
257. Investment of funds.
258. Disposition of property in hands of trustee.
259. Enforcement of the orders of court. 
SEC. 1. In an action by a. vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of
property, or by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his
claim, or between partners or others jointly owning or interested
in any property or fund, on the application of the plaintifff, or of
any party whose right to or interest in the property or fund, or
the proceeds thereof, is probable, and where it is shown that the
property or fund is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially
injured: 
2. In an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of his mort­
gage, and sale of the mortgaged property, where it appears that
the mortgaged property is in dang~r of being lost, removed, or ma­
terially injured, or that the condition of the mortgage has not been
performed, and that the property is probably insufficient to dis­
charge the mortgage debt : 
3. Mter judgment, to carry the judgment into effect:
4. After judgment, to dispose of the property according to the 
judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or
when an execution has been returned unsatisfied, and the judgment
debtor refuses to apply the property in satisfaction of the judgment: 
5. In the cases provided in this Code and by special statutes,
when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent, or in immi­
nent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights: 
6. In all other cases where receivers have heretofore been ap­
pointed by the usages of courts of equity.1 
SEC. 254. WHO ARE INELIGIBLE AS RECEIVERS. 
No party, or attorney, or person interested in an action, shall be
appointed receiver therein. 
SEC. 255. 0.ATH AND UNDERTAKING. 
Before entering upon his duties, the receiver must be sworn to
perform them faithfully, and with one or more sureties approved
by the court or judge, execute an undertaking to such person and
in such sum as the court or judge shall direct, to the effect that he 
will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver in the action, and
obey the orders of the court therein. 
SEC. 256. POWERS OF RECEIVER. 
The receiver has, under the control of the court, power to bring
and defend actions in his own name, as receiver, to take and keep
possession of the property, to receive rents, collect debts, to com­
pound for and compromise the same, to make transfers, and generally, to do such acts respecting the property as the court may
authorize.1 
SEC. 25 7. lNVESTIIENT 011' Ft"XDS. 
Funds in the hands of a receiver may be invested upon interest 
by order of the court ; but no such order shall be made, except
upon the consent of all the parties to the action. 
SEC. 258. DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY IN THE HANDS OF TRUSTEES. 
When it is admitted by the pleading or examination of a party,
that he has in his possession, or under his control, any money or
other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of the
litigation, is held by him as trustee for another party, or which be·
longs or is due· to another party, the court may order the same to
be deposited in court, or delivered to such party, with or without
security, subject to the further direction of the court. 
SEC. 259. How OBDBRS 01' THE OOlraT HAY BE BNFOROBD. 
Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a court shall have
· ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other thing, and the 
order is disobeyed, the court, beside punishing the disobedience,
as for a contempt, may make an order, requiring the sheriff to take
the money or thing, and deposit or deliver it in conformity with 
the· direction of the court. 
SEC. 260. A~ ISSUE DEFl!iED. 
Issues arise on the pleadings, where a fact, or conclusion of law,
is maintained by one party and controverted by the other. They 
are of two kinds, 
t. Of law:
2. Of fact. 
SEC. 261. AN ISSUE OP FA.CT. 
• 
An issue of fact arises,
1. Upon a material allegation in the petition denied by the 
answer:
2. Upon a setoff or counterclaim presented in the answer, and 
denied by the reply :
3. Upon material new matter in the answer or reply, which shall 
be considered as controverted by the opposite party without fur­
ther pleading.1 
SEC. 262. TRIAL. 
A trial 'is a judicial examination of the is1ues, whe~er of law
or of fact, in an action. 
SEC. 263. IsSUBS now TRIBD. 
Issues of law must be tried by the court, unless referred as pro­
vided in section two hundred and eighty-one. Issues of f'act
arising in actions for the recovery of money, or of specific, real or
personal property, shall be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial is
waived, or a reference be ordered as hereinafter provided. 
SEC. 264. WBIIN TO BB TBIBD BY TBB COURT, 
All other issues of fact shall be tried by the court, snbject to its
power to order any issue or issues to be tried by a jury, or referred 
as provided In this Code.1 
SUBDIVIBION 1. Formation of the jury. 
SEC. 265. 
2. Conduct of the trial 
3. Verdict. 
ARTICLE II. 
TRIALS BY JURY. 
SUBDIVISION I. 
J'ORKATION OP THE JURY. 
The general mode of summoning, impanneling, challenging and
swearing the jury, is not changed by this Code. 
SEC. ~66. MoDE OF CONDUCTING TRIAL. 
When the jury has been sworn, the trial shall proceed in the fol­
lowing order, unless the court for special reasons, otherwise direct: 
1. The plaintifff must briefly state his claim, and may briefly
state the evidence by which he expects to sustain it. 
2. The defendant must then briefly state his defense, and may
briefly state the evidence he expects to offer in support of it. 
S. The party, who would be defeated if no evidence were given
on either side, must first produce hie evidence; the adverse party 
will then produce his evidence.
4. The parties will then be confined to rebutting evidence, un­ 
less the court, for good reasons in furtherance of justice, permits
them to offer evidence in their original case. 
5. When the evidence is concluded, either party may request in­
structions to the jury on points oflaw, which shall be given or re­
fused by the court: which instructions shall be reduced to writing,
if either party require it. 
6. The parties may then submit or argue the case to the jury.
In the argument, the party required first to produce his evidence,
shall have the opening and conclusion. If several defendants hav­
ing separate defenses, appear by different counsel, the court shall
arrange their relative order. 
7. The court may again charge the jury after the argument is
concluded: 
1 
SEC. 267. WHEN .JU&Y HAY VIEW THE PROPERTY OB. PLACE WBERB FA.OT OCCURRED. 
~
Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is proper for the jury 
to have a view of property which is the subject of litigation, or of
the place in which any material fact occurred, it may order them
to be conducted in a body under the charge of an officer to the
place, which shall be shown to them by some person appointed by
the court for that purpose. While the jury are thus absent, no
person other than the person so appointed, shall speak to them on
any subject connected with the trial. 
SEC. 268. PROCEBDIYG8 WllEN CAUSB 18 SUBKITl'ED TO THE lURY. 
When the ease is finally submitted to the jury, they may decide
in court or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they must be
kept together in some convenient place, under the charge of an
officer, until they agree upon ,. verdict or are discharged by the
court, subject to the discretion of the court to permit them to sepa­
rate temporarily at night, and at their meals. The officer having
them under his charge, shall not suffer any communication to be
made to them, or make any himself, except to ask them if they
have agreed upon their verdict, unless by order of the court, and
he shall not before. their verdict is rendered, communicate to any
person the state of their deliberations or the verdict agreed upon. 
Sm 269. A.DKOXITf01' OP THE COURT 'IO THE IURY. 
If the jury are permitted to separate, either during the trial, or
after the case is submitted to them, they shall be admonished by
the court that it is their duty not to converse with, or suffer them­
selves to be addressed by, any other person, on any subject of the 
trial, and that it is their duty not to form or express an opinion
thereon, until the cause is finally submitted to them. 
SEC. 270. IYSTR'C'CTIONS WHEN JURY DUU.GREE AS TO LAW OR FA.CT. 
After the jury have retired for deliberation, if;, there be a disa­
greement between them as to any part of the testimony, or if they
desire to be informed as to any pa.rt of the law arising in the case,
they may request the officer to conduct them to the court, where
the information upon the point of law shall be given, and the court
may give its recollection as to the testimony on the point in dispute,
in the presence of, or after notice to, the parties or their counsel. 
a. It is error for o. judge, during-in. recess of his court, in the absence of the
party and his counsel, and without notice to them, to give instructions to the
jury' to whom the case has been submitted. Campbell ti. Beckett, 8 0. St. 210. 
SEC. 271. DISCHARGE OF JURY. 
The jury may be discharged by the court on account-of the sick­
ness of a juror, or other accident or calamity requiring their dis
charge, or by consent of both parties, or after they have been kept 
together until it satisfactorily appears that there is no probability
of their agreeing. 
SEC. 272. · WHEN SUBSEQUENT TRIAL MA.Y BE HAD. 
In all cases where the jury are discharged during the trial or
after the cause is submitted to them, it may be tried again imme­
diately or at a future time, as the c~urt may direct. 
SEC. 273. VERDICT HOW nENDERED. Juny MAY BE POLLED. 
When the jury have agreed upon their verdict, they must be
conducted into court, their names called by the clerk, and the ver­
dict rendered by their foreman. When the verdict is announced,
either party may require the jury to be polled, which is done by
the clerk or court asking each juror if it is his verdict. If any
one answers in the negative, the jury must again be sent out for
further deliberation. 
SEC. 274. VERDICT IN WRITINO--SIONJID BY f'OBIDIA..'(. 
The verdict shall be written, signed by the foreman, and read by
the clerk to the jury, and the inquiry made whether it is their ver­
dict. If any juror disagrees, the jury must be sent out again ; 
but if no disagreement be expressed, and neither party requires
t1e jury to be polled, the verdict is complete, and the jury dis­
charged from the case. If, h'owever, the verdict be defective in
form only, the same may, with the assent of the jury before they 
are discharged, be corrected by the court. 
a. Where a question is submitted to a. jury whether any notice bas been
given of a trust to the eestui qu« trust; and the verdict responds that "no suj/i­
cient notice was given " and no exception ie taken to the form of the verdict
until error brought, it will be held to answer the question in the negative.
Carlisle ez'r v. Foster ez'r, 9 0. St. 
SEOTroN 275. Verdict mo.y be special or geneml.
276. When jury to find general or special verdict. 
SEC. 275. VBRDIOT MA.Y BE GESERAL OR SPECIAL. 
The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A. general
verdict is that by which they pronounce, generally, upon all or any
of the issues, either in favor of the plaintifff' or defendant. A
special verdict is that by which the jury finds the facts only. It
must present the facts as established by the evidence, and not the
evidence to prove them ; and they must be so presented as that
nothing remains to the court, but to draw from them conclusions 
of law.'. 
SUBDIVISION Ill 
VERDICT. 
277. Judgment when special verdict is inconsistent with general.
278. Jury must assess amount of recovery. 
8BO. 276. W HE.~ .JURY TO Fil'fD GBNBIU.L Oil SPBOlAL VERDICT, 
In every action for the recovery of money only, or specific real
property, the jury in their discretion, may render a general or 
special verdict. In all other cases, the court may direct the jury
to find a special verdict in writing upon all or any of the issues;
and in all cases may instruct them if they render a general verdict, 
to find upon particular questions of fact to be stated in writing,
and may direct a written finding thereon. The special verdict or
finding must be filed with the clerk and entered on the journal. 
· a. The right of the court to direct the jury to find & special verdict, is purely
' dilcretionary, and their refusal to do so can not be auigned for error. Cleve­ 
land, Col. and Cin. RR Co."· Terry, 8 0. St. 570. 
SEC. 277. J UDGKENT WHEN SPBOUL VERDICT IS INCONSISTENT WITH GBNBRAL. 
When the special i.nding of facts is inconsistent with the gen­
eral verdict, the former controls the latter, and the court may give
judgment accordingly. 
Sr.c. 278. JURY KU8T A.888&9 TBB AXOUNT OP JLBOOVDY. 
When, by the verdict, either party is entitled to recover money
of the adverse party, the jury, in their verdict, must assess the
amount of recovery. 
ARTICLE flt. 
TRIAL BY THE COURT. 
SECTION 279. Trial by jury may be waived and cause tried by the court.
280. Special finding of the court---exceptiona in such eases. 
SEC. 279. Tam BY .JURY lfAY DB WAIVED .ASD CAttSE TRIED BY THR COURT. 
The trial by jury may be waived by the parties in actions aris­
ing on contract, and, with the assent of the court, in other actions,
in the following manner: 
1. By the consent of the party appearing, when the other party
fails to appear at the trial by himself or attorney. 
2. By written consent in person, or by attorney, filed with the
clerk. 
8. By oral consent in open court entered on the journal. 
8m 280. W BBN l'INDING OP TBB 001JRT SPIICIIAL-BXCBPTIONS. 
Upon the trial of questions of fact by the court, it shall not be
necessary for the court to state its finding, except, generally, for
the plaintifff or defendant, unless one of the parties request it, with
the view of excepting to the decision of the court upon the ques­
tions of law involved in the trial; in which case the court shall
state in writing the conclusions of fact found, separately from the
conclusions of law. 
a. Where a party desires t.o except t.o the opinion of the court as t.o the law
arising on the fact.a proved on the trial, he ought t.o require a special finding of
the facts. Gest o. Kenner's adm'rs, 7 0. St. 75. 
ARTICLE IV. 
TRIAL BY REFEREES. 
8BCT10N 281. All issuea may be referred by consent.
282. When oourt may order a reference.
283. Mode of trial-report of refereee-esoeptione-judgment.
284. How referees chosen.
285. When reference may be made by the probate judge.
286. Bill of exceptions.
287. Referenee in vacation.
288. Oath of referee. 
289. Compensation of refer!e. 
SEC. 281. ALI, 188UB8 KAY BB REFERRED BT CONSENT. 
All or any of the issues in the action, whether of fact or of la.w,
or both, may be referred, upon the written consent of the parties,
or upon their oral consent in court entered upon the journal. 
8BC. 282. WBBN THB OOU&T JUY ORDBB ..&. RBll'BRBNCB. 
When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon the appli­
cation of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in any 
case in which the parties are not entitled by the constitution of 
• 
this state to a trial by jury.1 (As amended, April 8, 1857. 54 0.
L. 92.) . 
SEC. 283. MoDB OJ.I' TRIAL-RBPOB'l'--K.~Cti'TIONS-JUDGlfENT. 
The trial before referees is conducted in the same manner as a
trial by the court. They have the same power to summon and en­ 
force the attendance of witnesses, to administer all necessary oaths
in the trial of th~ case, and to .. grant adjournments, as the court 
upon such trial. They must state the facts found, and the conclu­
sions of law, separately, and their decision must be given, and may
be excepted to and reviewed in like manner. The report of the
referees upon the whole issue stands as the decision of the court,
and judgment may be entered thereon in the same manner as if 
the action had been tried by the court. When the reference is to
report the facts, the report has the effect of a special verdict.1 
SEC. 284. How REFEREES oaosss. 
In all cases of reference, the parties, except when an infant
may be a party, may agree upon a suitable person, or persons, not
exceeding three, and the reference shall be ordered accordingly;
and if the parties do not agree, the court shall appoint one or more
referees, not exceeding three, who shall be free from exception. 
SEC. 285. WHEN REFERENCE MAY BE MADE BY THE PRODATE JUDGE. 
A reference as provided in this chapter can not be ordered by a
probate court, unless by consent of the parties to the reference
and referees. 
SEC. 286. BILL OF EXCEPTIONS. 
It shall be the duty of the referees to sign any true exceptions
taken to any order or decision by them made in the case, and re­
turn the same with their report to the court making the reference. 
SEC. 287. REFERENCE IN VACATION. 
A judge in vacation, upon the written consent of the parties,
may make any order of reference which the court, of which he is
a member, could make in term time. In such case the order of
reference shall be made on the written agreement of the parties to
refer, and shall be filed with the clerk of the court with the other
papers in the case. 
SEC. 288. OATH OF REFEREE. 
The referees must be sworn or affirmed well and faithfully to
hear and examine the cause, and to make a just and true report
therein according to the best of their understanding. The oath
may be administered by any person authorized to take depositions. 
SEC. 289. Co~PENSATION OF REFEREE. 
The referees shall be allowed such compensation for their ser­
vices as the court may deem just and proper, which shall be taxed
as a part of the costs in the case. . 
S:sc. 290. WHAT IS AN EXCEPTION. 
An exception is an objection taken to a decision of the court
· upon a matter of law. 
a. In all causes pending in the court of common pleas, or either o.f the su­
perior courts, in this state, either party shall have the right to except to the
opinion of the court on a motion to direct a nonsuit, to arrest the testimony
from the jury, and, also, in all cases of motion for a new trial by reason of any
supposed misdirection of the court to the jury, or by reason that the verdict,
or in case the jury be waived that the finding of the court, may be supposed to
be against law or evidence, so that said case may be removed by petition in
error ; and when a party to a suit in either of the aforesaid courts alleges an 
exception to the opinion or order, or judgment of such court, it shall be the
duty of the judge or judges of such court, concurring in such judgment, opin­ 
ion or order, if required by such party during the progress of the case, to sign
and seal a hill containing such exception or exceptions, before tho case pro­
ceeds; or, if the party consents, the signing and sealing of such bill of excep­
tions may be suspended until the trial is closed, but said hill of exceptions shall
be signed and sealed during the term, and such bill of exceptions, when signed
and sealed, shall, if the party desires it, be made part of tho record in such
suit. 55 Ohio Laws 81, sec. 4. 
SF..C. 2g}. WHEN EXOEPTION TO BE TAKEN. 
The party objecting to the decision must except at the time the
decision is made, and time may be given to reduce the exception
to writing, but not beyond the term. 
SEC. 2<J3. How TO DE TAKEN WHEN FACTS AI'PE.AR ON RECORD. 
'Where the decision objected to is entered on the record, and the
grounds of objection appear in the entry, the exception may be
taken by the party causing to be noted, at the end of the decision,
that he excepts. 
SEc. 2134. Ilow SETTLED \\'IlEN FACTS DO YOT APPEAR OF RECORD-Jlll'ST DE SIG~ED 
A..'m FILED. 
.· 
Where the decision is not entered on the record, or the grounds
of objection do not sufficiently appear in the entry, the party ex­ 
cepting must reduce his exception to writing, and present it to the
court for its allowance. If true, it shall be the duty of a majority
of the judges composing the court, to allow and sign it, whereupon
it shall be filed with the pleadings as part of the record, but not 
spread at large on the journal. If the writing is not true, the
court shall correct it, or suggest the correction to he made, and it
shall then be signed as aforesaid. 
8.lilO. 295. llDUTERIAL EXCEPTIONS. 
No exception shall be regarded, unless it is material and preju­
dicial to the substantial rights of the party excepting. 
SEC. 296. WITBDRA.WINO EXCEPTIONS. 
Exceptions ta.ken to the decision of any court of record may, by
leave of such court, be withdrawn from the file's by the party tak­
ing the same, at any time before proceedings in error are com­
menced, and before the exceptions are recorded. 
ARTICLE VI. 
NEW TRIAL. 
SEcTIOY 297. Causes for which a new trial will be granted.
298. When a new trial will not be granted, 
299. When application to be made. 
300. Grounds to be in writing-affidavits.
301. Application for n~w trial after term-grounds-petition­ 
must be in three years-proceedings. 
SEC. 297. CAUSES FOR WHICH A NEW TRI.AL WILL BE ORAXTED. 
A new trial is a re-examination in the same court of an issue of
fact after a verdict by a jury, report of a referee, or a decision by
the court. The former verdict, report or decision, shall be vacated 
• 
and a new trial granted, on the application of the party aggrieved,
for any of the following causes affecting materially the substantial 
rights of such party:
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, referee, or 
prevailing party, or any order of the court or referee, or abuse
of discretion, by which the party was prevented from having a fair 
trial:
2. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party: 
3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against : 
4. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the
influence of passion or prejudice : 
5. Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery, whether
too large, or too small, where the action is upon a contract, or for 
the injury or detention of property : 
6. That the verdict, report or decision is not sustained by suf­
ficient evidence, or is contrary to law: 
7. Newly discovered evidence matesial for the party applying,
which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and 
produced at the trial :
8. Error of law. occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the 
party making the application.' 
SEC. 298. FoR WHAT CAUSES NEW TRIAL WILL NOT DE GRANTED. 
A new trial shall not be granted on account of the smallness of the
damages in an action for an injury to the person or reputation, nor
in any other action where the damages shall equal the actual pecuniary injury sustained. - 
a. In actions of t.orts, when, from the nature of the injury received, and the
means by which it was produced, the damages may in a good measure be com­
puted by estimating the loss of time, and expenditures incurred, etc., it is the
duty of the court, in a proper case, when the jury have found that the injury
was produced by the act of the defendant, t.o set aside the verdict, and grant a
new trial, if a fair compensation for the injury has not been awarded And 
section 298 of the Code does not Iimit the power of the court, in such a. case.
Bailey e, City of Cincinnati, 1 Handy, 438. 
SEC, 299. WHEN APPLICATION FOR NEW TRIAL TO BE MADE. 
The application for a new trial must be made at the term the ver­
dict, report, or decision is rendered, and except for the cause of
newly-discovered evidence material for the party applying, which
he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered and pro­
duced at the trial, shall be within three days after the verdict or
decision was rendered, unless unavoidably prevented. 
8BO. 300. GROUNDS HUST BB IN WllJTil(G. 
The application must be by motion upon written grounds, filed
at the time of making the motion. The causes enumerated in sub­
division two, three and seven, of section two hundred and ninety­
seven, must be sustained by affidavits showing their truth, and may
be controverted by affidavits. 
SEC. 301. APPLICATION FOR NEW TRIAL AFTER TERM. 
Where the grounds for a new trial could not, with re8ionable
diligence, have been discovered before, but are discovered after the
term at which the verdict, report of referee, or decision was ren­
dered or made, the application may be made by petition filed as in 
other cases not later than the second term after the discovery; on
which a. summons shall issue, be returnable and served, or publica­
tion made as prescribed in section seventy-two. The facts stated
in the petition shall be considered as denied without answer, and
if the service shall be complete in vacatio_n, the case shall be heard
and summarily decided at the ensuing term, and if in term, it shall
be heard and decided after the expiration of twenty days from
such service. The case shall be placed on the trial docket, and
the witnesses shall be examined in open court, or their depositions
taken as in other cases, but no such petition shall be filed more
than one year after the final judgment was rendered. 
8ECT10:s- 302. Amount of damages the plaintifff may recover.
303. Mode of trial by court. 
SEC. 302. AMOUNT OF DAMAGES PLAINTIFF IU.Y RECOVER. 
Whenever· damages are recoverable, the plaintifff may claim and
recover any rate of damages to which he may be entitled for the 
cause of action established.1 
ARTICLE VII. 
GENERAL PROVISIONS. 
SEC. 303. MoDIII OF TRIAL BY OOURT. 
The provisions of this title respecting trials by jury, apply, so
far as they are in their nature applicable, to trials by the court. 
SECTION 304. Dockets t.o be kept-e.ppearance-trial-journal-record-execution. 
305. Appearance docket.
306. Trial docket.
307. Order in which cases are to be tried. 
308. When action to J>e tried-issues to be made up when.
309. Copy of trial docket. 
8BO. 804. DOOKBTB TO BE XBPT BY CLERK. 
The clerk of the court of common pleas shall keep at least five
books, to be called the appearance docket, the trial docket, the
journal, the record and execution docket. 
SEC. 305. APPBABA.N'CB DOCKET. 
On the appearance docket, he shall enter all actions in the order
in which they were brought, the date of the summons, the time of
the return thereof by the officer and his return thereon, the time
of filing the petition, and all subsequent pleadings. 
Sm 306. TaUL DOCX"1'. 
ARTICLE VIII. 
TIME OE TRIAL. 
The trial docket shall be made out by the clerk of the court, at
least twelve days before the first day of each term of the court,
and the actions shall be set for particular days in the order in
:which the issues were made up, whether of law or of fact, and so
arranged that the cases set for each day shall be tried as nearly as 
may be on that day.· For the purpose of arranging said docket,
an issue shall be considered as made up when either party is in
default of a pleading. Said clerk shall not place upon the trial
docket any cases in whieh nothing remains to be done, except to
execute an order for the sale of real or personal property, and to
distribute the proceeds as directed by said order. It shall be the
duty of the clerk of the court of common pleas in the several
counties of this state, when an order of sale is issued in a case 
not on the docket, to enter the same on the execution docket in
the same manner that he does executions, with a description of
the real estate, if there be any, to be sold, and to enter the sub­
sequent proceedings had in pursuance of said order in the same
manner as the proc~edings on executions are or may be required 
to be entered. And when a sale of real estate is made in pursu­
ance of such order, it shall be confirmed, in all respects, as sales
on execution are or may be, and after the sale the officer shall be
governed in all respects by the law relating to sales on execution.
Should it at any time become necessary to take any other steps in
such case, than to sell or confirm a sale, or distribute the proceeds
of a. sale according to the order, the case may be redocketed on
the application of either party, and when so redocketed, it shall
stand in all respects as if it had remained on the docket. (As 
amended March 27, 1858. 55 0. L. 26.) 
SEC. 307. ORDER IN WHIOH CASES ABE TO BE TRIED. 
The trial of an issue of fact, and the a.ssessment of damages in
any case, shall be in the order in which they are placed on the
trial docket, unless by consent of the parties, or the order of the
court, they are continued or placed at the heel of the docket.
The time of hearing all other cases shall be in the order in which
they are placed on the docket, unless the court in its discretion
shall otherwise direct. The court may, in its discretion, hear at
any time a motion, and may by rule prescribe the time for hearing
motions. 
8BO. 308. WHEN ISSUES ARB TO BB HA.DB UP-WHEN ACTIONS TO BE TRIKD. 
Actions shall be triable at the first term of the court, after the
issues therein, by the times fixed for pleading, are or should have
been made up ; and when, by the times fixed for pleading, the
issues are, or should have been made up during a. term, such
actions shall be triable at that term. When the issues are, or
should have been made up, either before or during a. term of
court, but after the period for preparing the trial docket of such
term, the clerk, if required by the court, shall place such actions
on the trial docket of that term. 
SRO. 309. CoPY OF TRIAL DOCKET. 
The clerk shall make out a. copy of the trial docket for the use
of the bar before the first day of the term of court. 
SEC. 310. Wuo ARE OOXPBTE."iT WITNESSES, GENERALLY. 
No person shall be disqualified as a witness, in any civil action
or proceeding, by reason of his interest in the event of the same,
as a party or otherwise, or by reason of his conviction of a crime ;
but such interest or conviction may be shown for the purpose of 
affecting his credibility.1 
SEC. 311. Ex.-;EPTIONS. 
Nothing in the preceding section contained, shall in any man­
ner affect the laws, now existing, relating to the settlement of
estates of deceased persons, infants, idiots, or lunatics, or the at.
testation of the execution of last wills and testaments ; or of con­
veyances of real estate, or of any other instrument required by
law to be attested. 
SEC. 312. ADVEllSB PA.ll"l'Y JIA.Y BE COKPELLHD ro TB8TI.FY. 
Any party to a civil action or proceeding may compel any ad­
verse party, or person for whose benefit such action or proceeding
is instituted, prosecuted or defended, at trial or by deposition, to
testify as a witness in the same manner, and subject to the same
rules as other witnesses. 
SEC. 313. p .UlTY INOOXPETBNT WBBN ADVBRSJVABTY 18 .il>IIINIBT1UTOB1 OB. BXBCV­
TOR, ET(l.-EXCEPTIONS.-DEPOSITION OF A. PABTY, HTC. 
No party shall be allowed to testify by virtue of section three
hundred and ten, when the adverse party is the guardian of an
idiot, or a lunatic, or a deaf and dumb person, or the executor or
administrator of a deceased pe~son, or the guardian of a child or
children of a. deceased person, when the facts to be proved tran­
spired before the death of such deceased persons, except in suits
upon contracts which shall have been entered into by deceased
persons, by agents, in which cases, if the agent be a. witness, the
opposite party may testify as to all that transpired between such
party and the agent in relation to such contract, and the making
of the same; excepting, also, eases where the claim or defense is
founded on book account, then the party shall be permitted to tes­
tify that the entries are in his handwriting, that the book contain­
ing the same is his book of original entries, and if the original en­
tries in said book of accounts have been ma.de by a person who at 
the time of such trial is deceased, or a disinterested person, who is 
a nonresident of the state, on proof of such decease or nonresi­
deuce, and that said entries are in the handwriting of such person, 
or such proof by the party as hereinbefore provided, then it shall 
be competent to admit said book of original entries as evidence, the
weight to be given to such evidence in either case, however, being
left to the court or jury to determine; and in all actions by or
against a surviving partner, or partners, or a surviving joint con­
tractor or contractors, any party to the action shall be incompetent 
a.a a. witness to testify to transactions which took place with, or de­
clarations or admissions made by the deceased partner or joint con­
tractor, in the absence of his surviving partner or joint contractor.
The deposition of a party shall not be used in his own behalf, un­
less the legal notice required in the cases where depositions are to
be taken shall also specify that the deposition to be taken is that
of the party; provided, that if the deposition of a party be taken
in any pending suit, and such party shall die before the trial there­
of, it shall be lawful for the opposite party to testify as to all mat­
ters contained in said deposition. (As amended, March 3, 1860. 
57 0. L. 13.) 
SEC. 314. Wuo ARB INOOllPBTENT TO TESTIFY. 
The following persons sh~ll be incompetent to testify:
1. Persons who are of unsound mind at the time of their produc­ 
tion for examination.
2. Children under ten years of age, who appear Incapable of re­ 
ceiving just impressions of the facts respecting which they are ex­
amined, or of relating them truly. 
3. Husband and wife, for or against ea.ch other or concerning
any communication made by one to the other, during the marriage,
whether called as a witness while that relation subsisted, or after­
ward, except in actions where the wife, were she a femme sole,
would be plaintifff or defendant; in which action the. wife may tes­
tify. Either the husband or wife may testify, but not both. 
4. An attorney, concerning any communication made to him by
his client, in that relation, or his advice thereon, without the client's
consent. 
5. A clergyman or priest, concerning any confession made to
him in his professional character, in the course of discipline en­
joined by the church to which he belongs, without the consent of
the person making the confession. · 
6. No person who would if a party be incompetent to testify un­
der the provisions of section 313, shall become competent by rea­
son of an assignment of his claim.1 (As amended, February 14, 
1859. 56 0. L. 21.) 
Sao. 315. How INCOHPBTBNOY REMOVED. 
If a person offer himself as a. witness, tha.t is to be deemed a
consent to the examination also of an attorney, clergyman or
priest, on the same subject, within the meaning of the last two 
.. subdivisions of the preceding section. 
Sec. 316. How ATTEND.A.NOB PROCURED. 
The clerks of the several courts a.nd judges of the probate courts
shall, on application of any person having a cause or any matter
pending in court, issue a subpena for witnesses under the seal of
the court, inserting all the names required by the applicant in one
subpena, which may be served by the she.riff, coroner, or any con­
stable of the county, or by the party or any other person. When
a subpena is not served by the sheriff, coroner or constable, proof
of service shall be shown by affidavit; but no costs of serving the
same shall be allowed, except when served by an officer. 
SEC. 317. 8UBPBNA. 
I 
The subpena shall be directed to the person therein named, re­
quiring him to attend at a particular time· and place, to testify as
a witness, and it may contain a clause directing the witness to 
bring with him any book, writing, or other thing under his control
which he is bound by law to produce as evidence. 
SEC. 318. 8UBPENA ON TAKING DEPOSITIONS. 
When the attendance of the witness before any officer author­
ized to take depositions is required, the aubpena shall be issued by
such officer. 
SEC. 319. How SUBPENA sERvKD. 
The subpena shall be served either by reading, or by copy, deliv­
ered to the witness, or left at his usual place of residence ; but
such copy need not contain the name of any other witness. 
SEC. 320. WHERE WITNESS COMPELLED TO ATTEND. 
A witness shall not be obliged to attend for examination on the
trial of a. civil action, except in the county of his residence, nor to
attend to give his deposition out of the county where he resides,
or where he may be when the subpena is served upon him. 
SEC. 321. WIT NESS FEKS. 
A witness may demand his traveling fees, and fee for one day's
attendance, when the subpena is served upon him, and if the same
be not paid, the witness shall not be obliged to obey the subpena.
The fact of such demand and non-payment shall be stated in the 
return. · 
SEC. 322. CoNTEllPT OP oonar BY WITNESS. 
Disobedience of a subpena, or a refusal to be sworn or to answer
as a. witness, or to subscribe a. deposition, when lawfully ordered,
may be punished as a contempt of the court or officer, by whom his
attendance or testimony is required. 
SEC. 323. ATTACH:MEXT AGAINST \\'lTNESS. 
When a witness fails to attend in obededience to a subpena
(except.in case of a demand and failure to pay his fees), the court
or officer before whom his attendance is required, may issue an
attachment to the sheriff, coroner or constable of the county,
commanding him to arrest and bring the person therein named,
before the court or officer, at a. time and place to be fixed in the 
· attachment, to give •his testimony and answer for the contempt.
If the attachment be not for immediately bringing the witness
before the court or officer, a sum may be fixed in which the wit­
ness may give an undertaking with surety for his appearance. 
Such sum shall be indorsed on the back of the attachment; and
if no sum is so fixed and indorsed, it shall be one hundred dollars. 
If the witness be not personally served, the court ma.y, by a rule,
order him to show cause why an attachment should not issue
against him .. 
SEC. 324. PUNISHMENT A....,_D PROOEEDINGS AGAINST WITNESS. 
The punishment for the contempt mentioned in section three
hundred and twenty-two shall be as follows: When the witness
fails to attend in obedience to the subpena ( except in case of a
demand and failure to pay his fees), the court or officer may fine
the witness in a sum not exceeding fifty dollars. In other cases,
the court or officer may fine the witness in a sum not exceeding
fifty nor less than five dollars, or may imprison him in the county
jail, there to remain until he shall submit to be sworn, testify, or
give his deposition. The fine imposed by the court shall be paid
into the county treasury, and that imposed by the officer shall
be· for the use of the party for whom the witness was subpenaed.
The witness shall, also, be liable to the party injured for any
damages occasioned by his failure to attend, or his refusal to be
sworn, testify, or give his deposition. 
SEC. 325. WITNESS IMPRISONED MAY nE RELEASED. 
A witness so imprisoned by an officer before whom his deposi­
tion is being taken, may apply to a judge of the supreme court,
court of common pleas, or probate court, who shall have power to
discharge him, if it appear that his imprisonment is illegal. 
SEC. 326. PROCEEDINGS ON THE ARREST OF A 'WITNESS. 
Every attachment for the arrest, or order of commitment to
prison of a witness, by a court or officer, pursuant to this chapter,
must be under the seal of the court or officer, if he have an official
seal, and must specify particularly the cause of the arrest or com­
mitment ; and if the commitment be for refusing to answer a
question, such question must be stated in the order. Such order
of commitment may be directed to the sheriff, coroner, or any
constable of the county where such witness resides, or ma.y be at
the time, and shall be executed by committing him to the jail of
such county and delivering a copy of the order to the jailer. 
SEC. 327. .ELUIL"(ATION OJ' WITNESS IN PRISON. 
A person confin~d in any prison in this state, may, by order of
any court of record, be required to be produced for oral examina­ 
'tion in the county where he is imprisoned; but in all other cases,
his examination must be by deposition. 
SEC. 328. PRISONER'S DEPOSITION TAKEN WHILE IN CUSTODY. 
While a prisoner's deposition is being taken, he shall remain in
the custody of the officer having him in charge, who shall afford
reasonable facilities for the taking of the deposition. 
SEC. 329. WITNESS NOT TO BB 8UBD OUT OP HIS OOUNTY. 
A witness shall not be liable to be sued in a county in which he
does not reside, by being served with a. summons in such county,
while going, returning, or attending in obedience to a subpena. 
SEC. 330. WITNBSS HAY DEMAND FEES FOR EACH DAY'S A.TTBNDA.'iOB. 
At the commencement of each day after the first day, a witness
may demand his fees for that day's attendance in obedience to a
subpena, and if the same be not paid, he shall not be required to 
remain. 
SEC. 331. OATH. 
Before testifying, the witness shall be sworn to testify the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. The mode of admin­
istering an oath shall be such as is most binding upon the con­
science of a witness. 
SEC. 332. MODES OP TAXING TE8TDIONY. 
The testimony of witnesses is taken in three modes :
1. By affidavit :
2. By deposition :
3. By oral examination. 
SEC. 333. AFFIDAVIT. 
An affidavit is a written declaration under oath, made without
notice to the adverse party. 
S:ac. 334. DBPosITION. 
A deposition is a written declaration under oath, made upon
notice to the adverse party for the purpose of enabling him to 
attend and cross-examine; or, upon written interrogatories. 
Sso. 335. ORAL EXAJUNATION. 
An oral examination is an examination in the presence of the
jury or tribunal which is tb decide the fact or act upon it, the tes­
timony being heard by the jury or tribunal from the lips of the
witness. 
SEC. 336. FoR WHAT PuRPOSBS AN AFFID.A.VIT MAY BB R&AD. 
An affidavit may be used to verify a. pleading, to prove the
service of a summons, notice, or other process in an action, to
obtain a. provisional remedy, an examination of a witness, a. stay
of proceedings or upon a motion, and in any other case permitted 
by law. 
SEC. 337. BBFORB WHOM IT l(.A.Y BE MADE. 
SUBDIVISION 1. When to be used.
2. Officers who may take them. 
3. Manner of taking and authenticating them.
4. Exceptions to depositions. 
WHEN TO BE USED. 
SECTION 338. When depositions may be used.
339. When they may be taken. 
SEC. 338. W BEN DEPOSITIO~S HAY BE l:SED. 
The deposition of any witness ma.y be used only in the follow­
ing cases : 
1. When the witness does not reside in the county where the
action or proceeding is pending, or is sent for trial, by change of 
venue; or is absent therefrom: 
ARTICLE II. 
DEPOSITIONS. 
SUBDIVISION I. 
. 
An affidavit · may be made. in and out of this state before a.ny
person authorized to take depositions, and must be authenticated
in the same way, except as provided in section one hundred and
eleven. 
2. When, from age, infirmity, or imprisonment, ~he witness is
unable to attend court, or is dead : 
3. When the testimony is required upon a. motion, or in any
other case where the oral examination of the witness is not
required. 
a. The deposition or a witness, taken under the statute, can not be read,
unless the witness himself could be examined as a competent witness at the
time of the trial ; if he is then incompetent, his deposition, taken before, while
competent, can not be used. Fa.gin e. Cooley's Adm'r., 17 0. R. 44. 
Sec. 339. WuBN THBY KAY BE TAE:BN. 
Either party may commence taking testimony by depositions, at
any time after service upon the defendant. 
SECTION 340. Officers authorized to take depositions. 
SEC. 340. OFFICERS AUTHOBIZBD TO TAKE DEPOSITIONS. 
Depositions may be taken in this state before a judge or clerk
of the supreme court, the court of common pleas, or. probate
court, before a. justice of the peace, notary public, mayor, or
chief magistrate of any city, or town corporate, or before a master
commissioner, or any person empowered by a. special commission;
but depositions taken in this state, to be used therein, must be
taken by an officer or person whose authority is derived within
the state. 
SEC. 341. BBFOBB wsoM To BB TADN OUT or THIB STATS. 
Depositions may be taken out of this state by a judge, justice,
or chancellor of any court of record, a justice of tJie peace, no·
tary public, mayor, or chief magistrate of any city or town corpo­
rate, a. commissioner appointed by the governor of this state to
take depositions, or any person authorized by a special commission 
from this' state. 
SUBDIVISION II. 
OFFICERS WHO MAY TAKE THEM. 
341. By whom taken out of the state. 
342. Who can not take depositions. 
343. Commission to take. depositions. 
SEC. 342. WHO ~AN NOT TAKE DEPOSITIONS. 
The officer before whom depositions are taken, must not be a
relative or attorney of either party, or otherwise interested in the
event of the action or proceeding. · 
SEC. 343. ColOIISSION TO TAKE DEPOSITIONS. 
Any court of record of this state, or any judge thereof, is
authorized to grant a commission to take depositions within or
without the state. The commission must be issued to a. person or
persons therein named, by the clerk, under the seal of the court
granting the same, and depositions under it must be taken upon
written interrogatories, unless the parties otherwise agree. 
SUBDIVISION IIL 
MANNER OF TAKING AND AUTHENTICATING THEM. 
SECTION 344. Notice to take deposition-requisites-service. 
345. Notice by publication. ·
346. By whom deposition to be written.
34 7. Sealed, indorsed, and forwarded to clerk-when opened. 
348. Before what courts depositions may be used.
349. When depositions may be used.
350. Certificate of authentication.
351. Certificate of officer.
352. When deposition may be read.
353. When to be filed.
354. Fees for taking depositions. 
SEC. 344. NOTICE TO TAKE DEPOSITION-REQUISITES-SERVICE. 
Prior to the taking of any deposition, unless taken under a
special commission, a written notice, specifying the action or pro­ 
ceeding, the name of the court or tribunal in which it is to be
used, and the time and place of ta.king the same, s·ha.ll be served 
upon the adverse party, his a.gent or attorney of record, or left at
his usual place of abode. The notice shall be served, so as to 
allow the adverse party sufficient time by the usual route of travel
to attend, and one day for preparation, exclusive of Sundays and
the day of service, and the examination may, if so stated in the
notice, be adjourned from day to day. 
SEC. 345. :KoTICE BY Pt:DLICATIOX. 
When the party against whom the deposition is to be read, is
absent from, or a non-resident of the state, and has no agent or 
attorney of record therein, he may be notified of the taking of
the deposition by publication. The publication must be made
three consecutive weeks, in some newspaper printed in the county 
where the action or proceeding is pending, if there be any printed
in such county; and if not, in some newspaper printed in this 
state, of general circulation in that county. The publication
must contain all that is required in a. written notice, and may be
proved in the manner prescribed in s,ction seventy-three. 
SEC. 346. By WHOM DEPOSITION TO BB WRITTEN. 
The deposition shall be written in the presence of the officer
taking the same, either by the officer, the witness, or some disin­
terested person, and subscribed by the witness. 
SEC. 34 7. 8EALBD1 INDORSED AND FORWARDED TO OLERK. 
The deposition so taken shall be sealed up and indorsed with
the title of the cause and the name of the officer ta.king the same, 
and by him addressed and transmitted to the clerk of the court
where the action or proceeding is pending. It shall remain under
seal until opened by the clerk by order of the court, or at the
request of aparty to the action or proceeding, or his attorney. 
SEC. 348. BEFORE WHAT COURTS DEPOSITIONS MAY BE USBD. 
Depositions taken pursuant to this article, shall be admitted in
evidence on the trial of any civil action or proceeding pending
before any justice of the peace, mayor, or other judicial officer of
a city or town corporate, or before any arbitrators or referees, 
'and such depositions shall be sealed up, indorsed with the title of
the action or proceeding, the name of the officer taking the same,
and addressed and transmitted by such officer to such justice,
mayor, or o'ther judicial officer, arbitrator, or referees. 
8BO. 349. WHE."i DEPOSITIO~ MAY BE USED. 
When a deposition has been once taken, it may be read in any
stage of the same action or proceeding, or in any other action or
proceeding upon the same matter between the same parties, sub­
ject, however, to all such exceptions as may be taken thereto
under the provisions of this title. 
SEC. 350. CERTIFICATE OF AliTHE!'iTICATION. 
Depositions taken pursuant to this article, by any judicial or
other officer herein authorized to take depositions, having a seal
of office, whether resident in this state or elsewhere, shall be
admitted in evidence upon the certificate and signature of such
officer, under the seal of the court of which he is an officer, or his
official seal, and no other or further act of authentication shall be
required. If the officer taking the same have no official seal, the
deposition, if not taken in this state, shall be certified and signed
by such officer, and shall be further authenticated, either by parol
proof adduced in court, or by the official certificate and seal of any
secretary or other officer of state keeping the great seal thereof, or
of the clerk or prothonotary of any court having a seal, attesting
that such judicial or other officer was at the time of taking the
same within the meaning of this chapter authorized to take the
same. But if the deposition be taken within this state by an 
officer having no seal, or within or without this state under a. spe­ 
cial commission, it shall be sufficiently authenticated by the official
signature of the officer or commissioner taking the same. 
SEC. 351. CBRTIFIOATB OF OFFICER. 
The officer taking the deposition shall annex thereto a certifi­
cate showing the following facts : 
That the witness was first sworn to testify the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth: 
That the deposition was reduced to writing by some proper per­
son (naming him): 
That the deposition was written and subscribed in the presence
of the officer certifying thereto : 
That the deposition was taken at the time and place specified in
the notice. 
SECTION I. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Ohio,
That in all cases where the deposition of a witness has been or may be taken,
and the officer before whom such deposition has been or may be taken, shall 
have omitted to certify such deposition according to law, it shell be lawful to 
prove by such officer, or any other person, such fact so neglected to be certified,
and such proof for all purposes shall have the same force and effect as if the
fact proven had been duly certified. 
SEC. 2. This oot shall take effect nnd be in force from and after its passage,
and shall apply to actions now pending, as well as to those which :o:ny herenf­
ter be brought. (Passed March 16, 1860. 57 0. L. 41.) 
SEC. 352. WuKN DEPOSITION MAY BB READ. 
When a deposition is offered to be read in evidence, it must ap­
pear to the satisfaction of the court, that for any cause specified
in section three hundred and thirty-eight, the attendance of the wit­
ness can not be procured. 
SEC. 353. \VHEN DEPOSITIO~ TO BE FILED. 
Every deposition intended to be read in evidence on the trial>
must be filed at least one day before the day of trial. 
SEC. 354. FEF.S FOR TA.Kl~G DEPOSJTIO~S. 
The following fees shall he allowed for taking depositions in this
state, viz: Swearing each witness, four cents; for each subpena,
attachment, or order of commitment, fifty cents; for each hundred 
words contained in such deposition and certificate, ten cents and
no more; and such officer may retain the same until such fees are
paid. 'Such officer shall also tax the costs of the sheriff or other
officer who shall serve the process aforesaid, and fees of the wit­
nesses, and may also, if directed by the persons entitled thereto,
retain such depositions until the said fees are paid. 
8F.C. 355. EXCEPTIONS TO BE IN WRITING. 
Exceptions to depositions shall be in writing, specifying the
grounds of objection, and filed •th the papers in the cause. 
SEC. 356. :MusT BE FILED BEFORE TRIAL. 
No exception other than for incompetency or irrelevancy shall
be regarded, unless made and filed before the commencement of 
the trial. 
SEC. 357. EXCEPTIONS TO BB CONSIDERED BEFORE TRIAL. 
The court shall, on motion of either party, hear and decide the
questions arising on exceptions to depositions, before the com­ 
mencement of the trial. 
SEC. 358. WHEN OBJECTIONS WAIVED. 
Errors of the court in its decisions upon exceptions to_ deposi­
tions are waived unless excepted to • 
• 
CHAPTER IV. 
ADMISSION,·INSPECTION AND PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS AND
GENERAL PROVISIONS. 
SECTION 359. Party may be required to admit a paper to be genuine or pay
expense of proof 
360. Court may compel parties to procure books and writings­
parties may demand inspection and copy-inspection by & 
master.
361. How copies of deeds or other written instruments obtained.
362. Laws of other states and governments how proved. 
8EC. 359. PARTY MAY BE REQUIRED TO ADMIT A PAPER TO BE Gllt"INE OR PAY
RXPENSB OF PROOF. 
Either party may exhibit to the other or to his attorney, at any
time before the trial, any paper or document material to the action,
and request an admission in writing of its genuineness. If the
adverse party or his attorney fail to give the admission in writing,
within four days after the request, and if the party exhibiting the
paper or document be afterward put to any cost or expense to
prove its genuineness, and the same be finally proved or admitted
on the trial, such costs and expenses, to be ascertained at the trial,
shall be paid by the party refusing to make the admission, unless
it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court that there were good
reasons for the refusal. 
... 
SEC. 360. PARTY MAY BB OOMPELLBD TO PROCURB BOOKS AND WRITINOS-PARTIB&
HAY DEMAND INSPECTION AND COPY-INSPECTION BY A MA.STER. 
That the court, where any action is pending, shall have power,
on motion, and on ten days' notice thereof, to require the parties
to produce books and writings in their possession or power, which
contain evidence pertinent to the issue, in cases and under circum­
stances where they might heretofore be compelled to produce the
same by the ordinary rules of proceeding in chancery ; and if the
pla.intjff shall fail to comply with such order to produce books or
writings, the court, on motion as aforesaid, may give the like judg­
ment for the defendant, as in case of nonsuit; and if a defendant 
shall fail to comply with such order to produce books or writings,
the court, on motion as aforesaid, may give judgment against him
by default. Either party or his attorney may also demand of the ad­
verse party, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy of
a book, paper, or document, in his possession, or under his control,
containing evidence relating to the merits of the action or defense
therein. Such demand shall be in writing, specifying the book,
paper or document, with sufficient particularity to enable the other
party to distinguish it, and if compliance with the demand, within .
four days, be refused, the court or judge, on motion and notice to
the adverse party, may, in their discretion, order the adverse party
to give the other, within the specified time, aninspection and copy,
or permission to take a. copy of such book, paper or document; and
on failure to comply with such order, the court may exclude the
paper or document from being given in evidence, or if wanted as
evidence by the party applying, may direct the jury to presume it 
to be such as the party, by affidavit, alleges it to be. This section
is not to be construed to prevent a party from compelling another
to produce any book, paper or document, when he is examined as
a witness: Provided, however, That if the party in possession of
any such book, paper, writing or document, shall allege that the
same, or any part thereof, is of mere private interest, or of such
character that the same ought not to be produced, or an inspection
or copy thereof allowed or taken, the court may, in its discretion,
on motion of either party, direct a private examination thereof by
a master; and if the master shall find that such book, paper, writ­
ing or document, shall contain matter pertinent to the case, and
proper to be produced, inspected or copied, as aforesaid, he shall 
report the same to the court, or a copy of such part or parts as he
may find pertinent to the case, and proper to be produced, inspected
or copied, and the book, paper, writing or document, or part thereof,
so reported, shall be admitted in evidence on the trial, unless ex­
cluded by the court for proper cause.' (As amended, Ma.rch 6, 
1857. 54 0. L. 23.) 
SEC. 361. How COPIES OP DEEDS OR OTHER WRITTEN IlfSTRUJIENTS OBTAINED. 
Either party or his attorney, if required, shall deliver to the other
party or bis attorney a. copy of any deed, instrument or other writ­
ing, whereon the action or defense is founded, or which he intends
to offer in evidence at the trial. If the plaintifff or defendant shall
refuse to furnish the copy or copies required, the party so refusing
shall not be permitted to give in evidence at the trial the original, 
of which a copy has been refused. This section shall not apply
to any paper, a copy of which is filed with a pleading aa provided
in section one hundred and seventeen. 
SEC. 362. LAWS OP OTHER STATES AND GOVERNMENTS HOW PROVED. 
Printed copies in volumes of statutes, code, or other written law,
enacted by any other state or territory, or foreign government, 
purporting or proved to have been published by the authority
thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the ex­
isting law in the courts or tribunals of such state, territory or gov­
ernment, shall be admitted by the courts and officers of this state,
on all occasions, as presumptive evidence of such laws. The un­
written or common law of any other state, territory or foreign gov­
ernment, may be proved as facts by parol evidence; and the books 
of reports of cases adjudged in their courts, ma.y also 'be admitted
as presumptive evidence of such law. 
a. Acts of the general assembly of Ohio may be read in evidence from the
volumes printed by tho authority of the state, whether the same be general or
local laws. Brown t,, State, 11 0. R. 276. 
b. The existence of & law in a sister state, or foreign jurisdiction, is matter
of fact, triable by a jury, and provable, if necessary, by witnesses. Ingraham 
e, Hart, 11 0. R. 255.
c. When a question depends on the laws of a sister state, in our courts, such 
laws are a part of the evidence in the case, and, like aoy other fact, must be
proved by him who holds the affirmative. Pelton t,. Platner, 13 0. R. 209. 
IU. In the argument of a cause before the court or jury, counsel has a right, 
by ?Day of argument or illustration; either to read from a book a pertinent quo­
tation, or extract from a work on science or art, or other publication, adopting
it and making it a. part of his own address to the jury; but not using it as evi­ 
dence in the case. Legg "· Drake, 1 0. St. 286. 
CHAPTER v. 
PROCEEDINGS TO PERPETUATE TESTJMO:NY. 
SECTION 363. Evidence may be perpetuated.
364. Petition to be filed-what to contain.
365. Order for examination of witnesses. 
366. Cross interrogatories may be filed. 
367. Depositions where to be flied.
368. To be approved-effect. 
369. ~pplica.nt to pay costs. 
SEC. 363. EVIDENCE MAY BE PERPETUATED. 
The testimony of a witness may be perpetuated in the following
manner: 
SEC. 364. PETITION' TO BB FILBD-WBA.T TO OONTA.IN. 
The applicant shall file in the office of the clerk of the court of
common pleas a petition, to be verified, in whioh shall be set forth,
specially, the subject matter, relative to which testimony is to be
taken, and the names of the persons interested, if known to the
applicant ; and if not known, such general description as he can 
give of such persons, as heirs, devisees, alienees, or otherwise.
The petition shall also state the names of the witnesses to be
examined and the interrogatories to be propounded to each; that
the applicant expects to be a party to an action in a court of this
state, in which such testimony will, as he believes, be material,
and the obstacles preventing the immediate commencement of the
action, where the applicant expects to be the plaintifff. 
SEC. 365. ORDER FOR EXAMINATION OF WITN&SSES. 
The court, or a. judge thereof, may forthwith make an order
allowing the examination of such witnesses. The order sh~ 
prescribe the time and place of the examination, how long the
parties interested shall be notified thereof, and the manner in
which they shall be notified. 
SEC. 366. CROSS INTERROGATORIES MAY BE FILED. 
When it appears satisfactorily to the court or judge, that the
parties interested can not be personally notified, such court or 
judge shall appoint a competent attorney to examine the petition
and prepare and file cross interrogateries to those contained
therein. The witnesses shall be examined upon the interroga­
tories of the applicant, and upon cross in serrogatories, where
they are required to be prepared, and no others shall be pro­
pounded to them; nor shall any statement be received which is
not responsive to some one of them. The attorney filing the
cross interrogatories shall be allowed a reasonable fee therefore, to 
be taxed in the bill of costs. 
SEC. 367. DE!'OSITIONS WHERE TO BE FILED, 
Such depositions shall be taken before some one authorized by
law to take depositions, or before some one specially authorized
by the court or judge, and shall be returned to the clerk's office
of the court in which the petition was filed. 
SEC. 368. DEPOSITIONS TO BE .A.PPROVED--EFFBOT. 
The court or judge, if satisfied that the depositions have been
properly taken, and as herein required, shall approve the same
and order them to be filed ; and if a. trial be had between the
parties named in the petition, or their privies or successors in
interest, such depositions or certified copies thereof, may be given 
in :evidence by either party, where the witnesses are dead, or
insane, or where their attendance for oral examination can not be
obtained or required ; but such depositions shall be subject to the
same objections for irrelevancy and incompetency as may be made
to depositions taken pending an action. 
SEC. 369. APPLICANT TO PAY COSTS. 
The applicant shall pay the costs of all proceedings under this
chapter. 
SEC. 370. DEFINITION OF JUDGMENT. 
A judgment is the final determination of the rights of the
parties in an action. 
a. An order dismissing a case for defect or irregularity of process, or in the 
service of process, and in no way founded on, or passing upon, the allegations
·or the parties in their pleadings, is not a final judgment. Evans e, Iles, 7 0. 
St. 233. 
SEC. 371. JUDGMENT MAY BB FOR OR AGAINST EITHER OF THE PARTIES. 
Judgment may be given, for or against one or more of several
plaintifffs, and for and against one or more of several defendants;
it may determine the ultimate rights of the parties on either side,
as between themselves, and it may grant to the defendant any
affirmative relief to which he may be entitled. In an action
against several defendants, the court may, in its discretion, render 
judgment against one or more of them, leaving the action to proceed
against the others whenever a several judgment may be. proper.
The court may also dismiss the petition with costs in favor of one
or more defendants, in case of unreasonable neglect, on the part of
the plaintifff', to serve the summons on other defendants, or to pro­
ceed in the cause against the defendant or defendants served. 
1 
SEC. 3i2. ,VHE~ A~ ACTIO~ l\L\Y BE DISllISSED WITilOl:T PREJUDICE. 
CHAPTER X AN ACTion may be dismissed without prejudice to a future action,
1. By the plaintifff before the final submission of the case to 
the jury, or to the court, where the trial is by the court:
2. By the court, where the plaintifff fails to nppear on the trial:
3. By the court for the want of necessary parties :
4. By the court, on the application of some of the defendants, 
where there are others whom the plaintifff fails to prosecute with
Jiligence: 
5. By the court, for disobedience by the plaintifff of au order
concerning the proceedings in the action. 
In all other cases, upon the trial of tho action, the decision
must be upon the merits. 
SEC. 373. PROCEEDINGS ON COUNTER-CL.A.IM OR SETOFF WHEN ACTIO::'.i IS DISMISSJID
WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
In any case where a setoff or counterclaim has been presented,
the defendant shall have the right of proceeding to the trial of
his claim, although the plaintifff may have dismissed his action, or 
failed to appear. · 
SEC. 3i4. l\fORTGAGED PROPERTY TO BE SOLD.- 
In the foreclosure of a mortgage, a sale of the mortgaged prop­
erty shall in all cases be ordered; and when the same mortgage 
embraces separate tracts of land, situated in two or more counties,
the sheriff of each county in which such separate tract or tracts
are situated, shall be ordered to make sale of the lands situated
in the county of which he is sheriff. [ As amended March 29, 
1859. 56 0. L. 84.] 
a. See note g, section 371. 
SEC. 375. JUDGMENT FOR CONVEYANCE TO OPERATE AS SUCH. 
When a judgment shall be rendered for a conveyance, release,
or acquittance, in any court of this state, and the party against
whom the judgment shall be rendered, does not comply therewith
by the time appointed, such judgment shall have the same opera­
tion and effect, and be as available, as if the conveyance, release,
or acquittance had been executed conformably to such judgment.
This section shall apply to decrees rendered or to be rendered in
suits now pending. 
SEC. 376. 
If the taking of an account, or the proof of a fact, or the as­
sessment of damages be necessary to enable the court to pro­
nounce judgment upon a failure to answer, or after a decision of
an issue of law, the court may, with the assent of the party not in
default, take the account, hear the proof, or assess the damages;
or may, with the like assent, refer the same to a referee or master
commissioner, or may direct the same to be ascertained or as­
sessed by a jury. If a jury be ordered, it shall be on or after the
day on which the action is set for trial.1 
SEC. 377. CONFESSION OP' JUDGllBXT- I~ PERS0'1. 
Any person indebted, or against whom a. cause of action exists,
may personally appear, in a court of competent jurisdiction, and, 
with the assent of the creditor, or person having such cause of ac­
tion, confess judgment therefore; whereupon judgment shall be en­
tered accordingly. 
~EC. 378. I'LEADIXGS IX SUCH ACTION. 
The debt or cause of action shall be briefly· stated in the judg­
ment, or in a writing to be filed as pleadings in other actions. 
SEC. 379. EXECCTION-RELEASE OF ERRORS. 
Such judgment shall authorize the same proceedings for its en­
forcement, as judgments rendered in actions regularly brought and
prosecuted; and the confession shall operate as a release of errors. 
SEC. 880. W ARR.\NT OF ATTORNEY TO llE FILED. 
Every attorney, who shall confess judgment in any case, shall,
at the time of making such confession, produce the' warrant of at­
torney for making the same, to the court before which he makes
the confession, and the original, or a copy of the warrant shall be
filed with the clerk of the court in which the judgment shall be 
entered.1 • 
SEC. 381. WARRANT OF ATTORNEY TO COXFESS JUDGMENT AGAINST PERSON IN
CUSTODY. 
If any person be in custody in a civil action, at the suit of an­
other, no warrant of attorney executed by the person in custody,
to confess judgment in favor of the person at whose suit he is in 
. . 
custody, shall be of any force, unless some attorney expressly
named by the person in custody, be present and sign the warrant
of attorney, as a. witness. 
SEC. 38~. JUDOXENT TO CONFORM TO VERDICT. 
When a trial by jury has been had, judgment must be rendered
by the clerk in conformity to the verdict, unless it is special, or the
court order the case to be reserved for future argument or con­ 
sideration. 
SEC. 383. JcDG:MENT ON SPECIAL VERDICT. OR CASE RESERVED. 
Where the verdict is special, or where there has been a. special
finding on particular questions of fact, or where the court has or­
dered the case to be reserved, it shall order what judgment shall be
entered. 
8F.C. 384. JUDOMK.'fT OONTRAtY TO VERDICT. 
Where, upon the statements in the pleadings, one party is en­ 
titled by law to judgment in his favor, judgment shall be so rendered 
by the court, though a verdict has been found against such party. 
SF.C. 385. J UDOMENT IN CASE OF COUSTER-CI,ADI OR 81':TOFF. 
If a counterclaim or eetoff, established at the trial, exceeds the
plaintifff's claim so established, judgment for the defendant must 
be gisqen for the excess; or, if it appear that the defendant is en­
titled to any affirmative relief, judgment shall be given therefore. 
8BO. 386. J UDGHBNT AGAINST INFANTS. 
It shall not be necessary to reserve in a judgment or order, the
right of an infant to .show cause against it after his attaining full
age; but in any case in which, but for this section, such reserva­
tion would have been proper, the infant, within one year after ar­ 
riving at the age of twenty-one, may show cause against such or­
der or judgment. 
Sao. 387. JUDGKENT TO BE ENTERED ON JOURNAL. 
All judgments and orders must be entered on the journal of the
court, and specify clearly the relief granted or order made in the
action. 
SEC. 388. RECJORD OF CASES. 
The clerk shall make a complete record of every cause, as soon
as it is finally determined; unless such record or some part thereof
be duly waived. 
a. See rules XIV and XX of supreme court. 
SEC. 389. WHEN RECORD TO BE MADE UP AND SIGNED. 
He shall make up such record in each cause, in the vacation next
after the term at which the same was determined; and the presid­
ing judge of such court shall, at its next term thereafter, subscribe
the same. 
SEC. 390. OF WHAT THE RECORD TO CONSIST. 
The records shall be made up from the petition, the process, re­
turn, the pleadings subsequent thereto, reports, verdicts, orders,
judgments, and all material acts and proceedings of the court; but
if the items of an account, or the copies of paper attached to the
pleadings, be voluminous, the court may order the record to be
made by abbreviating the same, or inserting a pertinent descrip­
tion thereof, or by omitting them entirely. -:"Evidence must not be 
recorded. 
SEC. 391. FURTHER TnfB TO COllPLETE RECORD )I.AY BE GRANTED. 
When the judicial acts or other proceedings of any court have
not been regularly brought up and recorded by the clerk thereof,
suqh court shall cause the same to be made up and recorded within
such time as it may direct. When they are made up, and upon ex- 
amination found to be correct, the presiding judge of such court
shall prescribe the same. 
SEC. 3g2. CASES I~ WlIIOH NO RECORD ~EED BE MADE. 
Section three hundred and eighty-eight shall not apply1. In criminal prosecutions where the indictment has been 
quashed, or where the prosecuting attorney shall have entered a
nolle prosequi, on the indictment: 
2. In cases where an action has been dismissed without preju­
dice to a future action, as provided in section three hundred and
seventy-two: 
3. In all actions in which, in open court, at the term at which
the final order or judgment shall be made, both parties shall de­
clare their agreement, that no record shall be made. 
SEC. 393. '\THEN RjCORD llAY BE MADE UP ON PAYMENT THEREFOR. 
In cases where an action has been dismissed without prejudice
· to a future action, the clerk shall make a complete record of the 
proceedings, upon being paid for making the same by the party
desiring the record to be made. 
SEC. 394. RECORD UNDER SECTION 373. 
A complete record shall be made in the case mentioned in sec­
tion three hundred and seventy-three, unless waived by the parties . 
81-:c. 395. \V HEX CO:s'VEYAXCE MAY BE :\UDE BY COll::\rIS!-IOXERS. 
Real property may be conveyed by master commissioners as
hereinafter provided : 
1. When by an order or judgment in an action or proceeding, a
party is ordered to convey such property to another, and he shall
neglect or refuse to comply with such order or judgrncnt : 
2. When specific real property is required to be sold under an
order or judgment of the court. 
SEC. 396. WHEN SHERIFF l\lAY ACT AS lIASTER CO:ll::\llSSIOXER-IIOW SALES :IIADE. 
A sheriff may act as a master commissioner under the second
subdivision of the preceding section. Sales made under the same, 
shall conform in all respects to the laws regulating sales of lands 
upon execution. 
a. The power of a. sheriff, as master commissioner, ceases with the expiration
of his office as sheriff; and when he has mnde a sale as such master, but the
deed of conveyance is not executed <luring the continuance of his office as 
sheriff, its execution devolves upon his successor in that office. Norton t'. Gr:~y,
1 Wes. Law .Monthly, 408. 
SEC. 397. :MA.STER COl\l}llSSIO:XER0S·DEED. 
The deed of a master commissioner shall contain the like recital,
and shall be executed, acknowledged and recorded, as the deed of
a sheriff, of real property sold un<ler execution. 
SEC. 398. "\V1uT c.\CSES or xcrrox srnvrve, 
· In addition to the causes of action which survive at common
law, causes of action for mcsne profits, or for an injury to real or
personal estate, or for .any dcce it or fraud, shall also survive, and
the action may be brought, notwithstanding the death of the per­ 
son entitled or liable to the same. 
a. A~ the facts which existed between these parties in the lifetime of the de­
ceased, constituted no cnusc of action -n:;ainst the deceased, there was no cause
of action to survive against his administrator. .M. :E. Church, Dayton, r. 
Hench's adm'r, 7 0. St. 36<J.
b. A ri~ht of action for the breach of an implied contract to use cure in re· 
dueing a dislocated limb, does not survive nt common law, unless some special
damuge be shown; and thut common law rule is applicable in Ohio to an ac­
tion brought after the death of the surgeon, though not to an action pending at
the time of his death. :\lt!Crory r, ~kinner, admr, 2 \\r. Ln.w Monthly, 203. 
S1·:L·. ;1g~. ,r1L\T AcT10:s-s sII.\r.L xor .\U.\TE. 
No action pending in any court, shall abate by the death of
either or both the parties thereto, except an action for libel, slan­
der, malicious prosecution, assault, or assault and battery, for a. 
nuisance, or against a justice of the peace for misconduct in office, 
which shall ~iLatc Ly the death cf the defendant. 
:,;r,;c. 400. "rm.;:,. oxrc OF TIIE P.\RTIES DIES, THE .\C'TJ()~ :\I.\Y l'l:OCEl:D I:-- THE 
~.urn' OF Sl'ltYI\'URS. 
When there are several plaintifffs or defendants in an action, and
one of them dies, or his powers as a personal representative cease, 
if the right of action survive to or against the remaining parties,
the action may proceed; the death of the party, or the cessation 
of his powers, being stated on the record. 
f,1i,:c. 401. Cot"RT '.\UY CO:STINl"E Pil(){'EEDl:SGS WHERE CAUSE OF ACTIOX DOES
XOT St:RVl\'E. 
Where one of several plaintifffs or defendants dies, or his powers
as a personal representative cease, if the cause of action do not
admit of survivorship, and the court is of opinion that the merits
of the controversy can be properly determined and the principles
applicable to the case fully settled, it may proceed to try the same
as between the remaining parties; but the judgment shall not pre­
judice any who were not parties at the time of the trial. 
SEC. 402. Ix wnxr ('.\SES THE ACTIO:S l'IIAY BF. RE,IYF.D. 
When one of the parties to an action dies, or his powers as a
personal representative cease, before the judgment, if the right
of action survive in favor of or against his representatives or suc­
cessor, the action may be revived, and proceed in theit name. 
SEC. 403. )fonE 01" nnvrvrxo A:S ACTIO:S. 
The revivor shall be by a conditional order of the court, if
made in term or by a judge thereof, if in vacation, that the
action be revived in the names of the representatives, or successor
of the party who died, or whose powers ceased, and proceed. in
favor of, or against them. 
SEc. 40-1. BY wuox llOTIOX To RE\.IYE ::,.u.y IIE :1rADE. 
The order may be made on the motion of the adverse party, or
of the representatives or successor of the party who died, or
whose powers ceased, suggesting his death, or the cessation of his
powers, which, with the names and capacities of his rcpresenta­
tives, or successor, shall be stated in the order. 
SEC. 40.5. "~l!E~ COl'Y OF onmen 01'' RE\.IYOR :'llt;ST m: SER,ED. 
If the order is made by consent of the parties, the action shall 
forthwith stand rcvived ; nnd if not made by consent, the order 
shall be served in the same manner, and returned within the same 
time, as a summons, upon the party adverse to the one making the 
motion, and if sufficient cause be not shown against the revivor, 
the action shall stand revived, 
SEC. 40u. WHEN SERVICE MAY BE COXSTRl:CTIVE. 
When the plaintifff shall make an affidavit that the representa­
tives of the defendant, or any of them in whose name the action
may be ordered to be revived, are non-residents of the state, or
have left the same to avoid the service of the order, ur so con­
cealed themselves that the order can not be served upon them, or
that the names and residence of the heirs or devisees of the per­
son against whom the action may be ordered to be revived, or
some of them, are unknown to the affiant, a notice may be pub­
lished for six consecutive weeks, as provided by section scventy­
two, notifying them to appear on a day therein named, not less
tha.n ten days after the publication is complete, and show cause
why the action should not be revived against them; and if suffi­
cient cause be not shown to the contrary, the action shall stand
revived. 
SEC. 40i. WHEN Pl,AIN_TIFF DI~s, rx WHOSE NAME ACTION TO DE REYIVED. 
Upon the death of the plaintifff in an action, it may be revived
in the names of his representatives, to whom his right has passed.
Where his right has passqd to his personal representative, the
revivor shall be in his name ; where it has passed to his heirs or de­
visees, who could support the action if brought anew, the reviver
may be in their names. 
SEC. 408. WHEN DEFENDANT DIES1 Do WHOSE NA.ME ACTION TO BE REVIYED. 
Upon the deati of a defendant in an action, wherein the right,
or any part thereof, survives against his personal representative,
the revivor shall be against him ; and it may be also against the
heirs, or devisees of the defendant, or both, when the right of
action, or any part thereof, survives against them. 
SEC. 4-09. W HF.{ DBFENDA."l'T IN REAL ACTION DIBS, AGAINST WHOM THE ACTIO:S
IS REVIVED. 
Upon the death of a. defendant in an action for the .-ecovery of
real property only, or which concerns only his rights or claims to
such property, the action may be revived against his heirs, or
devisees, or both, and an order therefore may be forthwith made,
in the manner directed in the preceding sections of this title. 
SEC. 410. WHEN ORDER lL.\DE AOAIXST REPRESENTATIVES OF DEFENDANT. 
An order to revive an action against the representative, or suc­
cessor of a defendant, shall not be made, without the consent of 
such representatives or successor, unless in one year from the
time it could have been first made. 
SEC'. 411. ,VHEN ORDER IN FAVOR OF REPRESENT.\TIVES OF PLAINTIFF 11.A.Y BE
MADE. 
An order to revive an action in the names of the representa­
tives, or successor of a plaintifff, may be made forthwith, but shall 
not be made without the consent of the defendant, after the expi­
ration of one year from the time the order might have been first
made; but where the defendant shall also have died, or his powers
have ceased in the meantime, the order of revivor on both sides
may be made in the period limited in the last section. 
SF.c. 412. \VnEX TDIE FOR REVIYING AN • .\CTION HAS PASSED, C'1 • .\SE M.\Y BE
STRICKEN FROlf DOCKET. 
When it appears to the court by affidavit, that either party to
CHAPTER X AN ACTion has been dead, or where a party sues, or is sued as a
personal representative, that his powers have ceased for a period
so long, that the action can not be revived in the names of his
representatives, or successor, without. the consent of both parties, 
it shall order the action to be stricken from the docket. 
SEC. 413. Ir PLAINTIFF FAILS TO REVIYE, CASE 111.\Y BE STnICKEN FROll DOCKET. 
At any term of the court succeeding the death of the plaintifff',
while the action remains on the docket, the defendant having 
given to the plaintifff' 's proper representatives, in whose names
the action might be revived, ten days' notice of the application
therefore, may have an order to strike the action from the docket,
and for costs against the estate of the plaintifff', unless the action 
is forthwith revived. 
SEC. 414. ACTION STANDS FOR TRIAL AT TERM IT IS REVIVED. 
When, by the provisions of the preceding sections, an action
stands revived, the trial thereof shall not be postponed by reason
of the revivor, if the action would have stood for trial at the term
the revivor is complete, had no death or cessation of powers taken 
place. 
SEC. 415. JOIST DEBTORS NOT ORIGINALLY SUllllOSED MAY BE MADE PARTIES TO
JUDOMEST-ACTION. 
When a judgment is recovered against one or more persons,
jointly indebted upon contract, promissory note, or other instru­
ment in writing, those who were not originally summoned may be
made parties to the judgment by action. Provided, however, an 
action may be brought upon any contract, promissory note, or
other instrument in writing against any one or more of the joint 
makers or joint obligors to any such contract, promissory note, or
other instrument in writing, notwithstanding judgment has been
or may hereafter be obtained, in any court in any of the states of
this Union, other than the state of Ohio, against one or more of
said joint makers or joint obligors to any such contract, promis­
sory note, or other instrument, and said action shall proceed upon
said instruments, in all respects, as though no judgment had been
obtained against any one of the makers or obligors thereof. Pro­
vided, further, that no action shall be maintained upon any such
obligation against any one against whom an action has been pros­
ecuted to final judgment. [ As amended March 10, 1859. 56 0.
L. 39.] 
SEC. 416. REVIVOR WHERE THE PLAINTIFF OR DEFENDANT DIES AFTER JUDGMENT. 
If either or both the parties die after judgment, and before sat­
isfaction thereof, their representatives, real or persona.I, or both..,
as the case may require, ma7 be made parties to the same, in the
same manner as is prescribed for reviving actions before judgment ;
and such judgment may be rendered, and execution awarded, as
might or ought to be given or awarded against the representatives,
real or personal, or both, of such deceased party. 
SEC. 417. REVIVOR OF DORM.~'llfT JUDO~T. 
If a judgment become dormant, it may be revived in the same
manner as is prescribed for reviving actions before judgment ; and
when the plaintifff to such dormant judgment, his agent or attor­
ney, shall make an affidavit that the defendant is a non-resident of
the state, and that such judgment remains unsatisfied, in whole or
in part, with a statement of the amount owing thereon, a notice
may be published, for six consecutive weeks, as provided by sec­
tion seventy-two, notifying him to appear at a day therein named,
not less than ten days after publication is complete, and show
cause why judgment shall not be revived against him; and if suf­
ficient cause be not shown to the contrary, the judgment shall
stand revived for the amount which the court shall find to remain 
due and unsatisfied upon such judgment; provided, that in all 
cases wherein service may be made by publication, personal ser­
vice of a copy of the order may be out of the state. [ As a.mended
March 10, 1860. 57 0. L. 30.] 
SEC. 418. EXECUTION HOW ISSUED. 
Executions shall be deemed process of the court, and shall be
issued by the clerk, and directed to the sheriff of the county.
They may be directed to different counties at the same time. J 
SEC. 419. DIFFERB:ST KINDS OF EXECUTIONS. 
Executions are of three kinds :
1. Against the property of the judgment debtor : 
2. Against his person :
3. For the delivery of the possession of real propert:. with 
damages for withholding the same. and costs. 
SEC. 420. WHAT PROPERTY SUBJECT TO LEVY. 
Lands, tenements, goods, and chattels, not exempt by law, shall
be subject to the payment of debts, and shall be liable to be taken
on execution and sold as hereinafter provided.1 
SEC. 421. WHEN LIEN OF JUDGMENT ATTACHES TO LANDS OR GOODS. 
The lands and tenements of the debtor within the county where
the judgment is entered, shall be bound for the satisfaction thereof,
from the first day of the term at which judgment is rendered; but
judgments by confession, and judgments rendered at the same term
at which the action is commenced, shall bind such lands only from
the day on which suc1-judgments are rendered. All other lands,
as well as goods and chattels of the debtor, shall be bound from
the time they shall be seized in execution.1 
SEC. 422. Wm:N JUDGMENT BECO)rES DORllANT, 
• 
If execution shall not be sued out within five years from the
date of any judgment, that now is or may hereafter be rendered
in any court of record in this state, or if five years shall have in­
tervened between the date of the last execution issued on such
judgment and the time of suing out another writ of execution
thereon, such judgment shall become dormant, and shall cease to 
operate as a lien on the estate of the judgment debtor. 
to be made of the lands and tenements of the debtor; and the ex­
act amount of the debt, damages, and costs, for which the judg­
ment is entered, shall be indorsed on the execution. 
a. If an execution has improvidently issued, it may be set aside. Bucking­
ham e, Gran. Alex. Society, 2 0. R. 360. 
b. An execution which mistakes the amount .of the judgment, may be
a.mended. Waggoner v. Lessee of Dubois, 19 0. R. 67, 104. 
c. A writ of fi. fa. issued without a seal, from a court having a seal, is void;
and a. levy on such a writ, and a sale on a vendi., with a. seal, are both void.
Boal's lessee v. King, 6 0. R. 11. 
SEC. 424. PREFERENCE GIVEN TO EXECUTIONS. 
When two or more writs of execution, against the same debtor,
shall be sued out during the term in which judgment was ren­
dered, or within ten days thereafter, and when two or more writs
of execution, against the same debtor, shall be delivered to the 
officer on the same day, no preference shall be given to either of
such writs; but if a sufficient sum of money be not made to satisfy
all executions, the amount made shall be distributed to the several
creditors in proportion to the amount of their respective demands. 
In all other cases, the writ of execution first deli vered to the officer
shall be first satisfied. And it shall be the duty of the officer to
indorse on every writ of execution, the time when he received the
same; but nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to
affect any preferable lien, which one or more of the judgments,
on which execution issued, may have on the lands of the judg­ 
ment debtor. 
S.Eo. 425. Goons AND CHATTELS TO BE FIRST TAKEN. 
The officer to whom a writ of execution is delivered, shall pro­
ceed, immediately, to levy the same upon the goods and chattels 
of the debtor; but if no goods and chattels can be found, the
officer shall indorse on the writ of execution d no goods," and
forthwith levy "the writ of execution upon the lands and tene­ 
ments of the debtor, which may be liable to satisfy the judgment.1 
8BO. 426. WRBN GOODS LEVIED ON ABB CLADIED BY A THIRD PBRSON-PRO­
CEBDJNOS. 
If the officer, by virtue of any writ of execution, issued from any
oovt of record in this state, shall levy the same on any goods and 
chattels claimed by any person other than the defendant, it shall
be the duty of said officer, forthwith to give notice in writing, to
some justice of the peace of the county, in which shall be set forth
the names of the plaintifff and defendant, together with the name
of the claimant; and &t the same time he shall furnish the said jus­
tice of the peace with a schedule, of the property claimed. And it
shall be the duty of such justice of the pea.ce, immediately upon
the receipt of such notice and schedule, to make an entry of the
same upon his docket, and issue a writ of summons, directed to the
sheriff, or any constable of the county, commanding him to sum­
mon five disinterested men, having the qualifications of electors,
who shall be named in said summons, to appear before him, the said
justice, at the time and place therein mentioned, which time shall
not be more than· three days after the date of said writ, to try and
determine the right of the claimant to the property in controversy. 
And it shall be the duty of the claimant to give two da.ys' nouce
in writing, to the plaintifff or other party, for whose benefit such
execution was issued and levied as aforesaid, his agent or attorney,
if within the county, of the time and place of such trial; and he
shall, moreover, prove, to the satisfaction of said justice that such
notice was given, or that the same could not be given by reason
of the absence of the party, his agent, or attorney. 
SEC. 427. PROCEEDINGS WHBN GOODS LEVIBD ON ARB OLAIMBD BY A THIRD
PERSON. 
The jury, summoned as aforesaid, shall be sworn to try and de­
termine the right of the claimant to the property in controversy,
and a true verdict to give according to the evidence. If the jury
shall find the right to said goods and chattels, or any part thereof, 
M> be in the claimant, they shall aleo find the value thereof, and the
justice shall render judgment upon such finding of the jury for 
the claimant, that he recover his coats against the plaintifff in exe­
cution, or other party to the same, for whose benefit the execution 
issued, and also that he have restitution of nch goods and chat­ 
tels, or·any part thereof, according to the finding of the jury; but 
if the right to the said goods and chattels, and every part thereof,
shall not be in the claimant according to the finding of said jury,
then the said justice shall render judgment on such finding, in fa­
vor of the plaintifff in execution, or other party, for whose benefit
the execution issued, and against said claimant for costs, and award
execution thereon. If the jury shall fail to agree, and be dis­
charged, costs shall be taxed, to abide the final event of the pro­
ceeding before said justice, and another jury shall be summoned in
like manner as before. Said justice of the peace, in the taxation
of costs accruing by reason of such claim and trial, shall allow
each juror, summoned and sworn, the sum of fifty cents; and for
the sheriff, constable, or other officer, and witnesses, and for him­
self, he shall tax such fees as are allowed by law to each respect­ 
ively, for like services rendered in other cases; such judgment for
the claimant (unless an undertaking shall be executed, as provided
in the next section,) shall be a justification of the officer in return­
ing "no goods" to the writ of execution, by virtue of which the .
levy has been made, as to such part of the goods and chattels as
were found to belong to such claimant. [ As amended, March 10, 
SEC. 57 0. L. 31.J 
a. Proceedings for a trial of the right of property, resulting in an order of
restitution and a return of the property pursuant to the order, are no bar to an
action by the claimant against the officer, to recover damages for the seizure
and detention of the property. Abbey "· Searles & Rider, 4 0. St. 598. 
b. Where property is levied upon by an officer, and is claimed by a. third
person, and the right to the property is tried before a justice, and a verdict
found against the right of claimant, the claimant can not sustain a suit against
the officer to recover the goods, or their- value in damages. Po.tty e, Mn.nsfield,
SEC. R 370. 
S!W· 428. JF .JURY FI::O.D FOR THE PLA.INTIFF~PROCEEDlNGS. 
If the jury shall find the property or any part thereof to be in
the claimant, and the plaintifff in execution shall, at any time within
three days after such trial, tender to the sheriff or other officer
having such property in his custody on execution, an undertaking
with good and sufficient sureties, payable to such claimant, in
double the amount of the value of such property as assessed by the
jury, to the effect that they will pay all damages sustained by rea­ 
son of the detention or sale of such property, then the sheriff or
other officer shall deliver said undertaking to claimant, and proceed 
to sell such property, as if no such trial of the right of property
had taken place, and shall not be liable t~ the claimant therefore. 
a. Where property is seized on execution, and claimed by a third person!
and the right of property is tried under sections 426 and 427 of the Code, and a 
verdict rendered by the jury, in favor of the claimant, and thereupon the plain­
tiff in execution 'executes and delivers an undertaking to the sheriff, as pre­
scribed in section 428 of the Code, and the sheriff delivers the .same to the 
claimant who accepts U; held, that after such proceedings, and the acceptance .
of such undertaking, the claimant can not resort to replevin to take the prop­
erty out of the hands of the sheriff. Moses v. Brashear, 2 Handy, 36. 
1>. Quere-Whether claimant can maintain replcvin if he refuses to accept
the undertaking. 
SEC. 429. W IIBN GOODS REMAIN UNSOLD-OFFICER KAY TAKE SEOt;RITY FOR RB·
DELIVERY. 
In all cases where a sheriff, coroner, or other officer, shall by vir­
tue of an execution, levy upon any goods and chatteis which shall
remain upon his hands unsold, for want of bidders, for the want of
time to advertise and sell, or any other reasonable cause, the of­
ficer may, for his own security, take of the defendant an undertaking,
with security, in such sum as he may deem sufficient, to the effect
that the said property shall be delivered to the officer holding an
execution for the sale of the same, at t~ time and place appointed
by said officer, either by notice given in writing to said defendant
in execution, or by advertisement published in a newspaper printed
in the county, naming therein the day and place of sale. If the
defendant shall fail to deliver the goods and chattels at the time
and place mentioned in the notice to him given, or to pay to the
officer holding the execution the full value of said goods and chat­
tels, or the amount of said debt and costs, the undertaking, given 
as aforesaid, shall be considered as broken, and may be proceeded
on as in other cases. 
SEC. 430. NOTICE OF SALE OF GOODS-INVENTORY TO Bla TAKBS-ANOTHER WRIT
lfAY JSSUB. 
The officer who levies upon goods and chattels, by virtue of an
execution issued by a court of record, before he proceeds to sell
the same, shall cause public notice to be given of the time and
place of sale, for at least ten days before the day of sale. The
notice shall be given by advertisement, published in some news­
paper printed in the county, or in case no newspaper be printed
therein, by setting up advertisements in five public places in the
county ; two advertisements shall be put up in the township where
the sale is to be held. And where goods and chattels levied upon,
can not be sold for want of bidders, the officer making such return
shall annex to the execution a true and perfect inventory· of such
goods and chattels ; and the plaintifff' in such execution may there­
upon sue out another writ pf execution, directing the sale of the
property levied upon a1 aforesaid ; but such goods and chattels
shall not be sold, unless the time and place of sale be advertised,
as hereinbefore provided.1 
SEC. 431. lll' FIRST LEVY IN8UFP'ICIBNT1 FURTHBR LEVY MAY BB MADE. 
When any writ shall issue directing the sale or property previ­
ously taken in_ execution, the officer issuing said writ, shall, at the
request of the person entitled to the benefit thereof, his agent or
attorney, add thereto a. command to the officer to whom such writ
shall be directed, that, if the property remaining in his hands not
sold shall, in his opinion, be insufficient to satisfy the judgment,
he shall levy the same upon the lands and tenements, goods and
chattels, or either, as the law shall permit, being the property of
the judgment debtor, sufficient to satisfy the. debt. 
SEC. 432. LANDS TO DB APPRAISED. 
If execution be levied upon lands and tenements, the officer 
levying such execution shall call an inquest of three disinterested
freeholders, who shall be resident within the county where the
lands taken in execution are situate, and administer to them an 
oath impartially to appraise the property so levied upon, upon
actual view; and such freeholders shall forthwith return to the
said officer, under their hands, an estimate of the real value m 
money, of said property. 
a. Appraisers must examine the land, and ascertain its "al1te in money.
Baird v. Kirtland, 8 0. R. 21. 
h. Tho court has the power when the appraisement of property was made
probably under some misapprehension of the location of the property, or in
ignorance of its value, and where justice to the parties manifestly requires it,
to set aside, and order n new appraisement to be made. Bates e, Junction R.
R. Co., Sup. C. Rep. MSS. 
c. The judgment debtor may make application to the sheriff' to have the ap­
praisement and sale in parcels, Hartshorne r. Reeder, 3 Law Gaz. :!45. 
SEC. 433. COPY OF APPRAISE)lE.~T TO BE DEPOSITED WITH CLERK. 
The officer receiving such return shall forthwith deposit a copy
thereof with the clerk of the court from which the writ issued,
and immediately advertise and sell such real estate, agreeably to
the provisions of this title. 
a. The publication of o. sale by a sheriff ean not be legally made, until the
sheriff has deposited n. copy of the valuation in the clerk's office. Merritt & 
Kempton v. Borden, 3 Law Gaz., 348. 
b. Such a defect, after tho confirmation of the sale, would not impair the
purchaser's title, but before a deed is ordered to be made, the court may
require all the proceedings connected with the process, levy, appraisement,
publication, and sale to be in harmony with the whole. lb. 
SEC. 4~4. Lmx OF Jt:DOllF:XT RESTRICTED TO TWO THIRDS OF APPRAISED Y.\.I.l'"E. 
If, upon such return as nforesnid, it appear by the inquisition,
that two thirds of the appraised value of said lands and tenements
so levied upon is sufficient to satisfy the execution, with costs, the 
judgment on which such execution issued, shall not operate, as a
lien, on the residue of the debtor's estate, to the prejudice of any
other judgment creditor. But no tract of land shall be sold for
less than two thirds of the value returned in. the inquest; and
nothing in this section contained, shall in any wise extend to affect
the sale of lands by the state, but all lands therein, the property
of individuals, indebted to the state for any debt or taxes, or in 
any other manner, except for loans heretofore authorized by the
legislature, shall be sold without valuation, for the discharge of
such debt, or taxes, agreeably to the laws for such case ma.de and
provided. 
a. Lands levied on to satisfy pecuniary fines due the state may be sold without a valuation. Walsh's lessee v. Ringer, 2 0. R 328. ' 
o. Where land is appraised in one tract, the sheriff in his discretion may
sell the same in separate parcels; but the sums realized must equal two thirds
of the valuation. Stall's lessee v. McAlister, 9 0. R. 19. 
8EC. 435. PROPERTY OF CERTAIN OFFICERS TO BE SOLD W~THOUT VALUATION. 
If the property of "8.ny clerk, sheriff, coroner, justice of the
peace, constable, or any collector of state, county, town, or town­
ship tax, shall be levied on, for, or on account of any monies that ·
now are, or may hereafter be by them collected, or received in
their official capacity, the property so levied on, shall be sold with­
out valuation. 
SEC. 436. NOTICE OF SALE OF LA.~ DS. 
Lands and tenements taken in execution shall not be sold until
the officer cause public notice of the time and place of sale, to be 
given for at least thirty days before the day of sale, by advertise­
ment in some newspaper printed and of general circulation in the
county; or in case no newspaper be printed in the county, in
some newspaper of general circulation therein, and by putting up
an advertisement upon the court-house door, and in five other 
public places in the county, two of which shall be in the township
where such lands and tenements lie. Where such advertisement
is made in a newspaper published weekly, it shall be sufficient to
insert the same in five consecutive numbers thereof; but wherever
there shall be published, both a daily and weekly edition of the
newspaper selected for such advertisement, and the circulation of
the daily in the county shall exceed that of the weekly, it shall be
sufficient for the officer to publish the said advertisement in the
daily once a week for five consecutive weeks, before the day of
sale, each insertion to be on the same day of the week: provided,
that the expense of such publication in a daily newspaper shall 
not exceed the cost of publishing the same in a. weekly newspaper. 
All sales ma.de without such advertisement shall be set aside, on
motion, by the court to which the execution is returnable. [ As.
amended April 6, 1859. 56 0. L. 242.] 
a. Where property wa.s advertised in a n"wspa.per of general circulation in
the county where sold, it is not necessary in addition to such advertisement to
put up notices in five public places in the county. Higdon e, Goodin, Sup. C.
Rep. MSS. 
6. See Notes a and 61 section 430. 
SEC. 437. CoNFIRIU.TIOY OF SA.LB-ORDER POB. DEeJ>. 
If the court, upon the return of any writ of execution, for the
satisfaction of which any lands and tenements have been sold,
shall, after having carefully examined the proceedings of the
officer, be satisfied that the sale has, in all respects, been made in
conformity to the provisions of this title, the court shall direct
the clerk to make an entry on the journal, that the court is satis­
fied of the legality of such sale, and an order that the officer
make to the purchaser, a. deed for such lands and tenements; and
the officer, on making such sale, may retain the purchase money
in his hands, until the court shall have examined his proceedings,
as aforesaid, when he shall pay the same to the person entitled
thereto, agreeably to the order of the court.1 
Sac. 438. DEED OF SHJCRIFF-RBCITA.LB-EFFBCT. 
The sheriff, or other officer who, upon such writ or writs of ex­
ecution, shall sell the said lands and tenements, or any part 
thereof, shall make to the purchaser or purchasers thereof, as
good and sufficient a deed of conveyance of the lands and tene­
ments sold, as the person, or persons against whom such writ, or
writs of execution were issued, could have made of the same, at,
or any time after they became liable to the judgment. The deed
shall be sufficient evidence of the legality of such sale, and the 
\ proceedings therein, until the contrary be proved, and shall vest
in the purchaser as good and as perfect an estate in the premises 
therein mentioned, as was vested in the party at, or after the time,
when such lands and tenements became liable to the satisfaction 
of the judgment. And such deed of conveyance, to be made by
the sheriff, or other officer, shall recite the execution, or execu­
tions, or the substance thereof, and the names of the parties, the
amount, and date of term of rendition of each judgment, by
virtue whereof the said lands and tenements were sold as afore­
said; and shall be executed, acknowleged, and recorded as is, or
may be provided by law, to perfect the conveyance of real estate
in other cases. 
SEC. 439. PRINTER'S FEE MAY BE REQUIRED IN ADVANCE. 
The officer who levies upon goods and chattels, or lands and ten­
ements, or who is charged with the duty of selling the same by vir­
tue of any writ of execution, may refuse to publish a notice of the
sale thereof by advertisement in a. newspaper, until the party for
whose benefit such execution issued, his agent, or attorney, shall
advance to such officer, so much money as will be sufficient to dis­
charge the fees of the printer, for publishing such notice. 
SEC. 440. OFFICER MUST DIDIAND PRINTER'S FEE. 
Before any officer shall be excused from giving the notification
mentioned in the last section, he shall demand of the party for
whose benefit the execution was issued, his agent or attorney (pro­
vided either of them reside in the county), the fees in said section 
specified. 
SEC. 441. W' HERE SALE OF LANDS TO BE m~LD-SHERIFF AXD APPRAISERS :SOT
TO PURCHASec. 
All sales of lands or tenements under execution, shall be held
at the court house, in the county in which such lands and tene­
ments are situated. No sheriff, or other officer, making the sale
of property, either personal or real, nor any appraiser of such prop­
erty, shall, either directly or indirectly, purchase the same; and
every purchase so made, shall be considered fraudulent and void. 
SEC. 442. EXECUTION TO. SELi, LANDS UNDER LEVY. 
If lands and tenements levied on as aforesaid, are not sold upon
one execution, other executions may be issued, to sell the lands so
levied upon. 
Sec. 443. ·WHEN CREDITOR llAY DIRECT SEP.ABATE LEVIES. 
In all cases where two or more executions shall be put into the
hands of any sheriff, or other officer, and it shall be necessary to
levy on real estate to satisfy the same, and either of the judgment
creditors in whose favor one or more of said executions is issued,
shall require the sheriff, or other officer, to make a. separate levy
tp satisfy his execution, or executions, it shall be the duty of the
sheriff, or other officer, to levy said executions, or so many thereof
as may be required, on separate parcels of the real property of the
judgment debtor, or debtors; giving to the officer making the levy
on behalf of the creditor, whose execution may! by the provisions
of this chapter, be entitled to a preference, the choice of such part
of the real property of the judgment debtor, or debtors, as will be
sufficient at two thirds of the appraised value, to satisfy the same.
And in all cases where two or more executions, which are entitled 
to no preference over each other, are put into the hands of the
same officer, it shall be the duty of the officer, when required, to
levy the same on separate parcels of the real property of the judg­
ment debtor, or debtors, when, in the opinion of the appraisers, the
same may be divided without material injury: and if the real prop­
erty of said debtors will not be sufficient, at two thirds of its ap­
praised value, to satisfy all the executions chargeable thereon, such
part of the same shall be levied on to satisfy each execution, as 
. 
will bear the same proportion in value to the whole, as the amount 
due on the execution, bears to the amount of all the executions
chargeable thereon, a.s near as may be, according to the appraised 
value of each separate parcel of said real property. 
SEC. 444. SucCESSOR OF SHERIFF TO MAKE DEED. 
If the term of service of the sheriff, or other officer, who has
made, or shall hereafter make sale of any lands and tenements,
shall expire, or if the sheriff, or other officer, shall be absent, or be
rendered unable by death, or otherwise, to make a deed of convey­ 
ance of the same, any succeeding sheriff, or other officer, on re­
ceiving a certificate from the court from which execution issued for
the sale of said lands and tenements, signed by the clerk, by order
of said court, setting forth that sufficient proof has been made to
the court, that such sale was fairly and legally made; and, on tender
of the purchase money, or if the same, or any part thereof be paid,
then, on proof of such payment and tender of the balance, if any,
may execute to the said purchaser, or purchasers, or his or their
legal representatives, a. deed of conveyance of the said lands and
tenements so sold. Such deed shall be as goodand valid in law,
and have the same effect, as if the sheriff, or other officer, who made
the sale, had executed the same. 
SEC. 445. DISPOSITION OF MONEY AF"l'BR SATISFYING EXECUTION, 
If on any sale made as aforesaid, there shall be in the hands of
the sheriff, or other officer, more money than is sufficient to satisfy 
the writ or writs of execution, with interests and costs, the sheriff
or other officer shall, on demand, pay the balance to the defendant 
in execution or his legal representatives. 
SEC. 446. REVERSAL OP JUDGMENT NOT TO .AFFECT TITLE. 
If any judgment or judgments, in satisfaction of which any lands
or tenements are sold, shall at any time thereafter be reversed, such
reversal shall not defeat or affect the title of the purchaser or
purchasers; but in such case, restitution shall be made by the
judgment creditor of the monies, for which such lands or tene­
ments were sold, with la.wful interest from the day of sale. 
SEC. 447. WHEN JUDGKBNT LOSBS PRBFEllENCB--NEW APPRA.IBBIIENT. 
No judgment heretofore rendered, or which hereafter may be
rendered, on which execution shall not have been taken out and
levied, before the expiration of one year next after its rendition, shall
operate as a lien on the estate of any debtor, to the prejudice of
any other bona fide judgment creditor. But in all eases where
[judgment] has been or may be rendered in the district or supreme
court, and a special mandate awarded to the court of common pleas,
to carry the same into execution, the lien of the judgment creditor 
shall continue for one year after the first day of the term of the
court of common pleas, to which such mandate may be directed.
Nothing in this subject contained, shall be construed to defeat the
lien of any judgment creditor, who shall fail to take out execution
and cause a levy to be made as herein provided, when such failure 
shall be occasioned by appeal, proceedings in error, injunction, or
by a vacancy in the office of sheriff and coroner, or the inability
of such officer, until one year after such disability shall be removed. 
In all cases where real estate has been, or may liereafter be,
taken on execution snd appraised, and twice advertised and offered
for sale, and shall remain unsold for want of bidders, it shall be the
duty of the court from which such execution issued, on motion of 
. the plaintifff, to set aside such appraisement, and order a new one
to be made, or to eet aside such levy and eppreisement, and award
a new execution to issue, as the case may require. 
SEC. 448. WHEN EXBCUTION TO BE .RETURNED. 
The sheriff or other officer, to whom any writ of execution
shall be directed, shall return such writ to the court to which the
same is returnable, within sixty days from the date thereof,' 
SEC. 449. J UDGMEST AGAlSST PRl~CIPAL AND SliRETY - HOW ENTERED - E."'{E·
CUTIOS. 
In all cases where judgment is rendered in any court of record
within this state, upon any other instrument of writing, in which
two or more persons are jointly and severally bound, and it shall
be made to appear to the court, by parol or other testimony, that
one or more of said persons so bound, signed the same as surety 
or bail for his or their co-defendant, it shall be the duty of the
clerk of said court, in· recording the judgment thereon, to certify
which of the defendants is principal debtor, and which are sure­
ties or bail. And the clerk of the court aforesaid, shall issue ex­
ecution on such judgment, commanding the sheriff or other officer,
to cause the money to be made of the goods aad chattels, lands
and tenements, of the principal debtor, but for want of sufficient
property of the principal debtor, to make the same, that he cause
the same to be made of the goods and chattels, lands and tene­ 
ments of the surety or bail. In all cases, the property, both per~ 
sonal and real, of the principal debtor, wit~in the jurisdiction of
the court, shall be exhausted before any of the property of the 
surety or bail shall be taken in execution. • 
I ' 
SEC. 450. APPIU.ISB8.18 FBI: BOW OOLLBOTBD--PBNALTT FOR NOT 8BRVINO. 
Each freeholder, summoned to appraise real estate under the
provisions of this chapter, shall be ailowed and receive for his
services the sum of fifty cents, for each day he may be so engaged
as such appraiser, to be collected on the execution, by virtue of
which the property appraised was levied on, if claimed at the time
of making the return of such appraisement. And when any free­
holder, summoned as aforesaid, shall fail to appear at the time and
place appointed by the officer, and discharge his duty as appraiser,
he shall, on complaint being made to any justice of the peace of the 
township in which such freeholder resides, forfeit and pay the sum
of fifty cents for every such neglect, unless he can render a reas­
onable excuse. Such sum shall be collected by said justice, and
paid into the township treasury, for the use of the township. 
SEC. 451. AlitBRCJDIENT OF 8BBRIFF-NOTICB-AJIOUNT. 
If any sheriff or other officer shall refuse or neglect to execute
any writ of execution to him directed, which has come to his
hands; or shall neglect or refuse to sell any goods and chattels,
lands and tenements; or shall neglect to call an inquest, and re­
turn a copy thereof forthwith to the clerk's office, or shall neglect
to return any writ of execution t,o the proper court, on or before
the return day thereof, or shall neglect to return a. just and per­ 
fect inventory of all and singular the goods and chattels by him
taken in execution, unless the said sheriff or other officer shall re­
turn, that he has levied and made the amount of the debt, damages
and costs; or shall refuse or neglect, on demand, to pay over to the
plaintifff, his agent or ~ttorney of record, all monies by him col­
lected or received, for the use of said party, at any time after
.collecting or receiving the same, except as provided in section
four hundred and thirty-seven ; or shall neglect or refuse, on de­
mand made by the defendant, his agent, or attorney of record, to
pay over all monies by him received for any sale made, beyond 
what is sufficient to satisfy the writ or writs of execution, with'
interest and legal costs; such sheriff or other officer shall, on 
motion in court and two days notice thereof in writing, be
amerced in the amount of said debt, damages, and costs, with ten 
per cent. thereon, to and for the use of said plaintifff or defendant,
as the case may be. 
SEC. 452. A.!tlKRODENT OF CLERK. 
If any clerk of a. court, shall neglect or refuse, on · demand
m;de by the person entitled thereto, hie agent, or attorney of 
record, to pay over all money by him received, in his official ca­
pacity, for the use of such person, ev:ery such clerk may be
amerced; and the proceedings against him and his sureties shall
be the same as provided for in the foregoing section against sher­
iffs and their sureties. 
SEC. 453. AllouNT OF AMERCEMENT .. 
When the cause of amercement is for refusing to pay over
money collected as aforesaid, the sald sheriff or other officer shall 
not be amerced in a greater sum than the amount so withheld,
with ten per cent. thereon. 
SEC. 454. RETURS' OP EXECUTION BY KAIL. 
When execution shall be issued in any county in this state, and
directed to the sheriff or coroner of another county, it shall be
lawful for such sheriff or coroner having the execution, after hav­
ing discharged all the duties required of him by law, to inclose
such execution, by mail, to the clerk of the court who issued the
same. On proof being made by such sheriff or coroner that the
execution was mailed soon enough to have reached the office
where it was issued, within the time prescribed by law, the sheriff
or coroner shall not be liable for any amercement or penalty, if it
do not. reach the office in due time. 
SEC. 455. WHEN SRBRIFF MAY SEND M.O~EY BY MAlL-YOTlCE TO AMERCE SHERIFF
OF ANOTHER COUNTY. 
No sheriff shall forward by mail any money, made on any such
execution, unless he shall be specially instructed to do it by the
plaintifff, his agent, or attorney of record: . In all cases of a mo­
tion to amerce a. sheriff or other officer of any county from which
the execution issued, notice in writing shall be given to such.
officer, as herein before required, by .leaving it with him or at his
office, at least fifteen days before the first day of the term at which
such motion shall be made, or by transmitting the notice by mail, 
at least sixty days prior to the first day of the term at w~ich such
motion shall be made. All ·amercements, so procured, shall be 
entered on the record of the court, and shall have the same force
and effect as a judgment. 
SEC. 456. SURETIES OF SHERIFF llAY BB KADE PARTIES TO JUDGKB~T OF All.ERCK·
MENT-EXECUTION-A.TTACHKBNT. 
Each and every surety of any sheriff or other officer, may be
made party to the judgment rendered as aforesaid, against the
sheriff' or other officer, by action, to be commenced and prose­
outed as in other eases. But the goods and chattels, lands and
tenements, of any such surety shall not be liable to be taken on
execution, when sufficient goods and chattels, lands and tenements,
of the sheriff' or other officer against whom execution may be.
issued, can be found to satisfy the same. Nothing herein con­
tained shall prevent either party from proceeding against such
sheriff or other officer, by attachment at his election. 
SEC. 457. EXBCUT[O~ ON ORIGINAL JUDGMENT. 
In cases where a sheriff', or other officer, may be amerced, and
shall not have collected the amount of the original judgment, he
shall be permitted to sue out an execution, and collect the amount 
of said judgment in the name of the original plaintifff', for his use. 
SEC. 458. WB:&."'l JUDGllENT CREDITOR :IUY PROCEED AGAINST BQUITABLB AS·
SETS. 
When a judgment debtor has not personal or real property sub­
ject to levy on execution, sufficient to satisfy the judgment, any 
equitable interest which he may have in real estate, as mortgagor,
mortgagee, or otherwise, or any interest he may have in any bank­
ing, turnpike, bridge, or other joint stock company, or any inter­
est he may have in any money contracts, claims or choses in action
due or to become due to him, or in any judgment or decree; or any
money, goods, or effects which he may have in the possession of
any person, body politic or corporate, shall be subject to the pay- 
ment of such judgment, by action, or as in this chapter pre­
scribed.' 
SEC. 459. WH'IDI' ORDER FOR DISCOVERY OF PROPERTY ALLOWED. 
When an execution against the property of a. judgment debtor,
or one of several debtors in the same judgment, issued to the sher­
iff of the county where he resides, or if he do not reside in the
state, to the sheriff of the county where the judgment was ren­ 
dered, or a transcript of a justice's judgment has been filed, is re­
turned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the judgment creditor is en­
titled to an order from a probate judge or a judge of the court of
common pleas of the county to which the execution was issued, re­
quiring such debtor to appear and answer concerning his property,
before such judge, or a. referee appointed by such judge, at a time
and place specified in such order, within the county to which the
execution was issued.' 
SEC. 460. WHEN ORDER FOR DISCOVERY lf.AY ISSUE BEFORB RETGRN OF BXBOUTION. 
After the issuing of an execution against property, and upon
proof by the affidavit of the judgment creditor or otherwise, to the
satisfaction of the court of common- pleas, or a judge thereof,. or a
probate judge of the county in which the order may be served, that
the judgment debtor has property which he unjustly refuses to ap­
ply toward the satisfaction of the judgment, such court or judge
may, by order, require the judgment debtor to appear at a time
and place in said county to answer concerning the same. And
such proceedings may thereupon be had for the application of the
property of the judgment debtor toward the satisfaction of the
judgment as are prescribed in this chapter.' 
Heo. 461. WHEN w .ARRA.."iT MAY lSSUB FOR THE ARREST OF THE DEBTOR. 
Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the judgment
debtor, as provided in the last two sections, the judge may, upon 
proof to his satisfaction, by affidavit of the party or otherwise, that
there is danger of the debtor leaving the state or concealing him- 
self to avoid the examination herein mentioned, issue a warrant
requiring the sheriff to arrest him and bring him before such judge
within the county in which the debtor may be arrested. Such war­
rant can be issued only by a judge of probate or ~ judge of the
eourt of common pleas of the county in which such debtor resides 
or may be arr.ted. Upon being brought before the j~e, he shall
be examined on oath, and other witnesses may be examined on
either side; and if on such examination it appear that there is
danger of the debtor leaving the state, and that he has property
which he unjustly refuses to apply to such judgment, he may be
ordered to enter into an undertaking in such sum as the judge may 
prescribe, with one or more sureties that he will from tim~ to time
attend for examination before the judge or referee, as shall be di­
rected. In default of entering into such undertaking, he may be
committed to the jail of the county by warrant of the judg_e, as
for a contempt. 
SEC. 462. EXISTENCE OF FRAUD NOT TO EXCUSE BXAMINATION. 
No person shall, on examination pursuant to this chapter, be ex­
cused from answering any question on the ground that his exam­
ination will tend to convict him of a fraud, but his answer shall not
be used as evidence against him in a prosecution for such fraud.1 
SEC. 463. DEBTOR MAY PAY EXECUTION A\1AIN8T CREDITOR. 
After the issuing of execution against property, any person in­
debted to the judgment debtor, may pay to the sheriff the amount 
of his debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the
execution, and the sheriff's receipt shall be a sufficient discharge
for the amount so paid, or directed to be credited by the judgment
creditor on the execution.2 
SEC. 464. EXillIN ATION OF DEBTORS OF JUDGXBNT DBBTOB, OR TBOSB DA TnfG 
After the issuing or return of an execution against property of
the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same 
judgment, and upon proof by affidavit or otherwise, to the satis­
faction of t~e judge, that any person, or corporatioa, has property
of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to him, the judge may, by
an order, require such person, or corporation, or any officer, or
member thereof, to appear at a specified time and place within the
county in which such person or corporation may be served with
the order to answer, a.nd answer concerning the same. The.judge 
may also, in his discretion, require notice of such proceeding to be
given to any party in the action, in such manner as may seem to 
him proper .1 
HIS PROPERTY. 
SEC. 465. PROCEEDINGS IN SUCH CASec. 
Witnesses may be required upon the order of the judge, or by a
subpena issued by the clerk of the court of common pleas, to ap­
pear and testify upon any proceedings under this chapter, in the
same manner. as upon the trial of an issue.1 
SEC. 466. p ARTY OR WITNESS MAY BB OO)f PELLED to ATTEND. 
The party or witness may be required to attend before the judge·;
or before a. referee, appointed by the court or judge. If before a
referee, the examination must be taken by the referee, and certi­
fied by the judge. All examinations and answers before a judge
or referee, under this chapter, must be on oath, but when a cor­
poration answers, the &11swer must be on the oath of an officer
thereof. 
SEC. 467. PROPERTY MAY BE ORDERED TO BE APPLIED ON EXECUTION. 
The judge may order any property of the judgment debtor, not
exempt by law, in the· hyids either of himself, or any other per­
son, or corporation, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied
toward the satisfaction of the. judgment; but the earnings 0£ the
debtor for his personal . services, at any time within three months
next preceding the order, can not be so applied, when it is made
to appear by the debtor's affidavit, or otherwise, that such earnings
are 'necessary for the use of a family supported wholly or partly,
by his labor.2 
. 
SEC. 468. .APPOINTMENT OF RBOBIVER-TRANSFER OF PROPERTY PROHIBITED. 
1 
The judge IJl&y also, by order, appoint the sheriff of the proper
cou~ty, or other suitable person, a. receiver of the property of the 
judgment debtor, in the same manner, and with the like authority, 
as if the appointment was made by the court. The judge may
also, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of the prop­
erty of the judgment debtor, not exempt by law, and any inter­
ference therewith.' 
SEC. 469. PROCEEDINGS WHEN INDEBTEDNESS 18 DENIED OR ANOTHER CJ.AIMS THE
PROPERTY. 
If it shall appear, that the judgment debtor has any equitable
interest in real estate in the county in which proceedings are had,
as mortgagor, mortgagee, or otherwise, and the interest of said
debtor can be ascertained as between himself and the person or
persons holding the legal estate, or the person, or persons having
any lien on, or interest in the same, without controversy as to the
interest of such person, or persons holding such legal estate, or
interest therein, or lien on the same, the receiver may be ordered
to sell and convey such real estate, or the debtor's equitable inter­ 
est therein. Such sale shall be conducted, in all respects, in the
same manner as is provided by this Code for the sale of real estate
upon execution, and the proceedings of sale shall, before the exe­
cution of the deed, be approved by the court in which the judg­
ment was rendered, or the transcript has been filed, as aforesaid,
as in cases of sale upon execution. 
SEC. 470. UNDERTAKING BY RROEIVER. 
If the sheriff shall be appointed receiver, he and his sureties
shall be liable on his official bond for the faithful discharge of his
duties as such receiver; if any other person shall be appointed
receiver, he shall give a written undertaking, in such sum as shall
be prescribed by the judge with one or more sureties, to the effect
that he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver, and he
shall also take an oath to the same effect, before acting as such
receiver. The undertaking mentioned in this section, shall be to
the state of Ohio, and actions may be prosecuted for a. breach
thereof, by any person interested, in the same manner as upon a
sheriff's official bond. • 
SEC. 471. PROCEEDINGS HAY BE CONTINUED. 
The judge, or referee, acting under the provisions of this chap­
t~r, shall have power to continue his. proceedings from time to 
time, until they shall be completed. 
SEC. 4 72. REFERE!C'CE BY JUDGE. 
The judge may, in his discretion, order a reference to a referee
agreed upon or appointed by him, to report the evidence or the
facts.1 
SEC. 473. DISOBlrnIENOE OP ORDER HOW PIDHSHED. 
If any person, party, or witness disobey an order of the judge
or referee, duly served, such person, party, or v.itness may be
punished by the judge as for a. contempt.2 
SEC. 474. PLBADINOS TO BB REDUCED TO WRITING AND FILED WITH THB CLERK. · .. 
The order mentioned in sections four hundred and fifty-nine,
four hundred and sixty, four hundred and sixty-four, and four hun­
dred and sixty-five, shall be in writing, and signed by the judge 
making the same, and shall be served as a. summons in other cases.
The judge shall reduce all his orders to writing, which, together
with a minute of his proceedings signed by himself, shall be filed
with the clerk of the court of the county in which the judgment
is rendered, or the transcript of the justice filed, and the clerk
shall enter on his execution docket, the time of filing the same. 
a. No record is required, bot the judge must file his "orders" and a. "min­
ute or such proceedings " with the clerk of the common pleas, who alone oan 
certify transcripts thereof Welsh e, P., Ft. W. and Chi R. R. Co., 1 Wes.
Law Monthly, 87. 
SEC. 475. CollPBNSATION AND COSTS. 
The judge shall allow te clerks, sherifFs, referees, receivers and
witnesses such compensation as is allowed for like services in
other cases, to be taxed as costs in the case, and shall enforce by
order, the collection thereof from such party, or parties, as ought
to pay the same. 
a. The judge is authorized to ordw the costs to be paid "by such party u 
ought to pay them." Welsh e, P., Ft. W. and Chi. R. R. Co., 1 Wes. LAw
Monthly, 87. 
SEC. 476. CoHPBNSATION OF PKOBATB JUDO& 
The judge of probate shall be allowed for his services, under
this chapter, the sum of three dollars in each case, and such feee 
as are allowed by law to clerks of the court of common pleas, for 
similar services. 
SEC. 477. EXF.CUTION AGAINST THE PERSON. 
An execution against the person of the judgment debtor, shall
require the officer to arrest such debtor, and commit him to the
jail of the county until he pay the judgment, or be discharged ac­
cording to law. 
SEC. 478. FoR WHAT OAUSE ISSUED. 
An execution against the person of the debtor may be issued
upon any judgment for the payment of money: . 
1. When the judgment debtor has removed, or begun to remove,
any of his property out of the jurisdiction of the court, with intent
to prevent the collection of the money due on the judgment: 
2. When he has property, rights in action, evidences of debt, 'or
some interest or stock in some corporation or company, which he
fraudulently conceals, with the like intent: 
8. When he has assigned or disposed of all or any part of his
property, or rights in action, or has converted the same into money,
with intent to defraud his creditors, or with the intent to prevent
such property from being taken in execution: 
4. When he fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred the ob­
ligation upon which the judgment was rendered: 
5. When he was arrested on an order before judgment and has
not been discharged, as an insolvent debtor, or the order has not
been set aside, as improperly made. 
a. No person shall be imprisoned for debt in any civil action on mesne or 
final process, unless in caeea of fraud. Const. of 1851, Art. I, Sec. 15.
b. See notes to sec. 145. 
SEC. 4 79. BY WBOH AND HOW ALLOWED. 
An execution against the person of the debtor, except as pre­
scribed in section four hundred and eighty-one, can be issued only 
when the same is allowed by the supreme court, the district court,
the court of common pleas, or probate court, or any judge of either,
upon being satisfied by the affidavit of the judgment creditor or his
attorney, and such other evidence as may be presented, of the ex­
istence of one or more of the particulars mentioned in section four 
'hundred and seventy-eight. 
a. An affidavit to hold to bail is sufficient if it states that the debtor was about 
· to dispose of his property with intent to defraud his creditors. Hockspringer
"· Ballinburg, 16 0. R 304. 
D. The attorney referred to in the capiaa act, who must make affidavit in lieu
of the party, it seems must be an attorney at law, and not a. mere attorney in
fact. Dunean e, Drakeley, 10 0. R. 46. 
SRO. 480. )£A.y BE ISSUED BY A JUSTICE OF THB PEAOE. 
A justice of the peace ma.y issue an execution against the per­
son of a judgment debtor, upon being satisfied of the existence of
one or more of the same particulars, by the like affidavit and evi­ 
dence. 
SEC. 481. W HBN 188UED OF OOUBSB. 
In all oases in which the judgment debtor was arrested before
judgment, and has not been released from imprisonment by an ap­
plication for relief as an insolvent debtor, and where the order for
such arrest has not been adjudged improper, an execution against
the person of such judgment debtor may issue of course. 
SEC. 482. DISCHA.RGB BY DBLIVERY OF PROPERTY. 
Any person ta.ken in an execution as aforesaid, shall be dis­
charged by delivering or setting off to the officer serving the same,
if issued from a court of record, real or personal ,property, if is­
sued from a justice of the peace, personal property only, sufficient·
to satisfy the judgment and costs for which the writ issued. 
a. A party arrested on a ca. sa. for a fine, may turn out land in discharge of
his body, and the sheriff' may accept it, and, when accepted, the legal eff'ect ia
the same as a levy. Walt!!h's lessee "· Bengen, 2 0. R 328. 
SEC. 483. ENTITLED TO PRISON BOUNDS-BUT BXBCUTION MAY ISSUB AGAINST
PROPERTY. 
Any persons imprisoned under the provisions of this article, shall
be entitled to prison bounds es prescribed hy law; but in case the
person shall be out of jail in prison bounds, the judgment creditor,
upon whose judgment he was imprisoned, shall be entitled to exe­
cution against the lands and tenements, goods and chattels of the
debtor, and all other remedies prescribed by this Code for the col­
lection of debts. 
SEC. 484. DEATH 011' DEFBSDANT NO SATISF'AOTION OF JUDOMBNT. 
The death of a person under arrest in an action does not satisfy
the judgment; but an execution may issue. thereon, as if no ar­
rest had been made. 
SEC. 485. PERSON ARRESTED BEFORB JUDOllBNT MUST BB CHARGED IN EXBCU·
TION WITHIN TEN DAYS. 
If a person imprisoned under an order of arrest made before
judgment, is not charged in execution within ten days after judg- .
ment, he shall be discharged from such imprisonment. 
SEC. 486: WHEN DEBTOR MAY BB DISCHARGED. 
In cases of commitment under this chapter, or upon arrest before
or after judgment in civil cases, the person imprisoned, in case of
his inability to perform the act or to endure the imprisonment, may 
be discharged from imprisonment by the court or judge committing
him, o~ the court or judge thereof in which the judgment was or
might be rendered on such terms as may be just. 
EXECUTIONS FOR THE DELIVERY OF REAL PROPERTY. 
SECTION 487. Command of execution.
488. When enforced by attachment. 
SEC. 487. EXEOUTION FOR THE DELIVERY OF REAL PROPERTY. 
If the execution be for the delivery of the· possession of real
property, it shall require the officer to deliver the same, particu­
larly describing the property, to the party entitled thereto, and
may at the s;.me time require the officer to satisfy any costs or
damages recovered in the same judgment, out of the goods and
chattels of the party against whom it was rendered, and for the
want of such goods and chattels, then out of the lands and tene­
ments, and in this respect it shall be deemed an execution against 
the property. 
CHAPTER IV. 
SEC. 488. WHEN E!'lFORCED BY ATTACHMEXT. 
• 
When the judgment is not for the recovery of money or real
property, the same may be enforced by attachment by the court
rendering judgment, upon motion made, or by a rule of the court 
upon the defendant; but in either case notice of the motion, or a
service of a copy of the rule shall be made on the defendant a rea­
sonable time, before the order of attachment is made. 
SEC. 489. TJUMSCRIPT OF JUDGMENTS BY JUSTIOES OF THE PEACE •HAY BE DOCK­
ETED IN COMMON PLEAS FOR EXECUTION. 
In all cases in which a judgment shall be rendered by a justice
of the peace, the party in whose favor judgment shall be rendered
may, at any time after ten. days from the day of rendering such 
judgment, if the same shall not be appealed or stayed, file a tran­
script of such judgment in the office of the clerk of the court of
common pleas of the county in which the judgment was rendered,
and thereupon the clerk shall, on the day on which the same shall
be filed, enter the case on the execution docket, together with the 
. amount of the judgment,. and the time of filing the transcript. [ As
amended, l\larch 29, 1856. 53 0. L. 46.] 
SEC. 490. WHEN JtrDG:MK:'fT OPERATES AS A LIEN ON RE . .\L ESTATE. 
Such judgment, if the transcript shall be filed in term time, shall
have a lien on the real estate of the judgment debtor from the day
of filing; if filed in vacation, as against the debtor, it shall have a 
lien from the day of filing, but as against other transcripts filed in
vacation, and judgments rendered at the next term of the court of
common pleas, it shall have a lien only from the first day of the
next term of said court, and any judgment of which a transcript has
been filed as aforesaid, whatever may be the amount thereof, which
shall have heretofore or which ma.y hereafter become dormant by
reason or the death of either of the parties thereto, or from any
other cause, may be revived by the court of common pleas of the 
county in which the transcript hes been or may be filed, in like
manner as dormant judgments rendered by such court may be re- 
vived, and the revivor thereof shall have the same force and effect
as the revivor of a judgment rendered by the court of common
pleas. [ As amended, January 25, 1860. 57 0. L. 4.] 
a. Original section 490 has been amended as follows: March 29, 1856; 53
0. L. 46. January 25, 1860; 57 0. L. 4. 
SEC. 491. WHEN EXEOUTION MAY ISSUE. 
Execution may be issued upon transcripts filed in vacation or
during term, at any time after said transcript may be filed, the
same as if the judgments had been taken in court, and the sheriff"
shall return the same as other executions: Provided, that on such
execution no sale shall be advertised and made till after the next
term after •the filing of said transcript; and the liens shall be as
provided in section 490 ; and in all sales of real estate made on
executions issued upon transcripts, the sheriff's proceedings shall
be examined and approved by the court as in other cases. [ As
amended, February 26, 1857. 64 0. L. 21.] 
a. Original section 491 has been amended M follows: March 29, 1856; 53
0. L. 46. February 26, 1857; 54 0. L. 21. 
SEC. 492. CERTIPICATR ON TRAN80KIPT-WHO· TO PAY COSTS OF TJU...'lii8CB.IPT. 
The justice of the peace shall certify on the transcript the
amount, if any, paid on such judgment. The costs of the transcript, .
the filing of the same, and the entry of the case on the execution
docket, shall be paid by the party filing the same, and not taxed 
to the other party. 
SEC. 493. EFFECT OF' OFFER TO COMPROMISE IF MADE BEFORE TRIAL. 
The defendant in an action for the recovery of money only, may,
at any time before the trial, serve upon the plaintifff, or his attor­
ney, an offer in writing, to allow judgment to be taken against· him
for the sum specified therein. If the plaintifff accept the offer, and
give notice thereof to the defendant, or his attorney, within five
days after the offer was served, the offer and an affidavit that the
notice of acceptance was delivered in the time limited, may be Jiled
by the plaintifff, or the defendant may file the acceptance, with a. 
copy of the offer verified by affidavit; and, in either case, the offer
and acceptance shall be noted in the journal, and judgment shall 
be rendered accordingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given
in the period limited, the offer shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall
not be given in evidence, or mentioned on the trial. If the plain­
tiff fails to obtain judgment for more than was offered by the de­
fendant, he shall pay the defendant's costs from· the time of the
offer.' 
SEC. 494. 0FFER1 NO GROUND FOR CONTINUANCE OR POSTPONE}[ENT. 
The making of an offer pursuant to the provisions contained in 
the foregoing section, shall not be a cause for a continua.nee of an
action, or a postponement of the trial. 
CHAPTER II. 
SUBMITTING A CONTROVERSY. 
SBCTION 495. Parties mo.y submit & matter of controversy to the court
without action. 
496. What constitutes the record.
497. Judgment may be enforced and subject to reversal 
SEC. 495. PARTIES MAY SUBMIT A. MATTER OF CONTROVERSY WITHOUT ACTION. 
Parties to a question which might be the subject of a civil ac­
tion, may, without action, agree upon a case containing the facts 
upon which the controversy depends, arid present a submission
of the same to any court which would have jurisdiction, if an
action had been brought. But it must appear by affidavit that the
controversy is real, and the proceedings in good faith, to deter­
mine the rights of the parties. The court shall, thereupon, hear
and determine the case, and render judgment, as if an action were
pending.1 
SEC. 496. RBooB.D. 
The case, the submission and the judgment shall constitute the
record. 
SEC. 497. JuooHENT-REVERSAL. 
The judgment shall be with costs, may be enforced, and shall
be subject to reversal in the same manner as if it had been ren­
dered in an action, unless otherwise provided in the submission. 
CHAPTER III. 
OFFER TO CONFESS JUDGMENT. 
811ClTION 498. Effect of, if, made by defendant o.f\er action brought.
499. Effect of ofl'er to confess judgment before action brought 
SEC. 498. EFFECT OP1 IF KADE BY DEFENDA...~T An'ER ACTION BROUGHT. 
After an action for the recovery of money is brought, the de­
fendant may offer in court to confess judgment for port of the
amount claimed, or part of the causes involved in the action. 
Whereupon, if the plaintifff, being present, refuse to accept such
confession of judgment in full of his demands against the defend­
ant in the action, or having had such notice that the offer would
be made, of its amount, and of the time of making it, as the court
shall deem reasonable, fail to attend, and, on the trial, do not re­
cover more than was so offered to be confessed, such plaintifff shall
pay all the costs of the defendant incurred after the off er. The
offer shall not be deemed to be an admission of the cause of action
or amount to which the plaintifff is entitled, nor be given in evi­
dence upon the trial. 
SEC. 499. EFFECT OF OFTBR TO CONFESS JUDGMB'KT BEFOB.B ACTION BROUGHT. 
Before an action for the recovery of money is brought against
any person, he may go into the court of the county of his resi­
dence, or of that in which the person having the cause of action
resides, which would have jurisdiction of the action, and offer to
confess judgment in favor of such person for a specified sum on
such cause of action. Whereupon, if such person, having had
such notice that the offer would be made, of its amount, and of
the time and place of making it, as the court shall deem reason­
able, do not attend to accept the confession, or attending, refuse
to accept it, and should afterward commence an action upon such 
cause, and not recover more than the amount so offered to be con­
fessed, he shall pay all the costs of the action ; and on the trial 
thereof, the offer shall not be deemed to be an admission of the
cause of action, or amount to which the plaintifff is entitled, nor 
be given in evidence. · 
CHAPTER IV. 
PROCEEDINGS BY SURETIES. 
SEcmoN 500. Surety may compel principal to pay debt.
501. May maintain action to obtain indemnity.
5Qa Remedies of surety. 
SEC. 500. SURETY KAY COMPEL PRlNOIPAL TO PAY DEBT. 
A surety may maintain an action against his principal, to com­
pel him to discharge the debt or liability for which the surety is
bound, after. the same has become due. 
SEC. 501. SURETY KAY HAJNT.A.JN ACTION TO OBTAIN iNDEK~ITY. 
A surety ma.y maintain an action against his principal, to ob­
tain indemnity against the debt or liability for which he is bound,
before it is due, whenever any of the grounds exist upon which,
by the provisions of this Code, an order may be made for arrest
and bail, or for an attachment. 
SEC. 502. REMEDIES OF SURETY. 
In such action, the surety may obtain any of the provisional
remedies mentioned in title eight, upon the grounds, and in the
qia.nner therein described. 
SEC. 503. WaAT rs A. MOTION. 
A motion is an application for an order addressed to the court
or a judge in vacation, by any party to a suit or proceeding, or 
one interested therein. 
SEC. 504. MOTION MAY INCLUDE SEVERAL OBJECTS. 
Several objects may be included in the same motion, if they all
grow out of or are connected with the action or proceeding in
which it is made. 
SEC. 505. NOTICB OF <MOTION. 
Where notice of a motion is required, it must be in writing, and
shall state the names of the parties to the action or proceeding in
which it is made, the name of the court or judge before whom it
is to be made, the place where and the day on which it will be
heard, the nature and terms of the order or orders to be applied
for, and if affidavits are to be used on the hearing, the notice shall
state that fact. It shall be served a reasonable time before the
hearing. 
SEC. 506. How MOTIONS SBRVED. 
Notices of motions mentioned in this chapter may be served by
a sheriff, coroner or constable, or by any disinterested person, and 
the return of any such officer, or affidavit of any such person, 
• 
shall be proof of serviee. The service shall be on the party or
his attorney of record, if the said party or his attorney be resi­
dent within the county in which the motion is made ; and in case
there is more than one party adverse to such motion, service shall 
be made upon each party or his attorney. 
SEC. 507. FEES. 
The service of a notice shall be ma.de as is required by law for
the service of a. summons, and when served by an officer he shall
be entitled to like fees. 
SEC. 508. MOTION TO STRIKE PLEADINGS FROM FILES. 
Motions to strike pleadings and papers from the files, may be
made with or without notice, as the court or judge shall direct. 
SEC. 509. WHAT IS AN ORDER. 
Every direction of a court or judge made or entered in writing
and not included in a. judgment, is an order. 
SEC. 510. ORDERS TO BE ENTERED ON DOCKET. 
Orders made out of court snail be forthwith entered by the
clerk in the journal of the court, in the same manner as orders 
made in term. 
SEC. 511. WHAT FINAL JUDGKBNT OR ORDER KAY BB RBVBR8BD OB JIODIFIBD BT
COJIJION PLEAS. 
A judgment rendered, or final order made, by a probate court,
justice of the peace, or any other tribunal, board or officer, exer­
cising judicial functions, and inferior in jurisdiction to the court of
common pleas, may be reversed, vacated, or modified by the court 
of common pleas. 
SEC. 512. WHAT IS A FINAL ORDER. 
An order affecting a substantial right in an action, when such
order in effect determines the action and prevents a judgment, and
an order affecting a substantial right ma.de in a special proceeding
or upon a summary application in an action after judgment, is a
final order which may be vacated, modified or reversed, as provided 
in this title. · 
a. An order in the progress of a suit, and before judgment, to be final and
lay the foundation for a. petition in error, must be such as determines the ac­
tion and prevents judgment. Hobbs v. Beckwith, 6 0. St. 252. 
b. The plaintifff sued the defendant; the defendant demurred to the petition,
which demurrer was overruled, and the defendant by leave answered. The
pla.intift' demurred to the answer, which demurrer wR.S sustained, and an
amended answer filed, and the plaintifff moved to 11trike out a part of the
amended answer, which motion was sustained. To these rulings the defend·
ant excepted. Held, that no.final order is shown to have been made. Neither
decision· in eft'ect determined the action and prevented a. judgment. Holbrook 
1'. Connelly, 6 0. St. 199.
c. An attachment, or a motion to discharge an attachment, is a special pro­ 
ceeding. An order discharging the attachment is an order a.ft"ecting a sub­
stantial right made in a special proceeding, and ma.y be reversed before the de·
termination of the action. Watson & Co. v. Sullivan, 5 0. St. 42. 
d. An order of the court of common pleas that a case be stricken from its
docket for want of service, and for the payment of costs, is not a final judgment 
for which an appeal lies to the district court, but i5 a. final order, for error in
which a petition in error is the proper remedy. Evans v. Iles, 7 0. St. 233. 
SEC. 513. WHAT JUDGHR...'iT OR ORDER HAY BE REVERSED BY DI8TBIOT COURT. 
A judgment rendered or final order made by the court of com­
mon pleas, superior court of O leveland, or superior M" commercial 
court, of Oincinnati, may be reversed, vacated, or modified by the
district court, for errors appearing on the record. 
SEC, 514. WHAT PJNAL JUDGME~T OR ORDER MAY DE REVERSED, VACATED OR MOD·
tPIBD BY SUPREllB OOURT-PBTITION ON LEAVE. 
A judgment rendered or final order made by any court, board,
or tribunal mentioned in the three preceding sections, may be re­
versed, vacated or modified by the supreme court, for errors ap­
pearing on the record; but the petition in error, in such case, can
be filed only by leave of the supreme court or a. judge thereof. 
SEC. 515. PROCERDING8 TO OBTAIN REVERSAL OR. llODIPICATIOS'. 
The proceedings to obtain such reversal, vacation, or modifica­
tion, shall be by petition, to be entitled "petition in error," filed 
in a. court having power to make such reversal, vacation, or modi­
fication, setting forth the errors complained of, and thereupon a 
summons shall issue and be served, or publication made, as in the
commencement or an action. A. service on the attorney of rec­
ord in the original ease shall be sufficient. The summons shall
notify the adverse party, that a petition in error has been filed in
a certain case, naming it, and shall be made returnable on or be­
fore the first day or the term or the court, if issued in vacation;
if issued in term time, it shall be returnable on a day therein
named; if the last publication or service of the summons shall be
made ten days before the end of the term, the case shall stand for
hearing at that term. 
a. See sectloa 609. 
SEC. 516. Issue, SERVICE A:l(D RETUR~ OP' 8UIDIO~S. 
The summons mentioned in the lsst sectioa, shall, upon the
written precipe of the plaintifff' in error or his attorney, be issued 
by the clerk of the court in whieh the petition is filed, to the
sheriff of any county in which the defendant in error or his attor­
ney of record may be; and if the writ issue to a foreign county,
the sheriff thereof may return the same by mail to the clerk, and ·
shall be entitled to the same fees a.s if the same had. been returna­
ble to the court of common pleas of the county in which such
officer-resides. The defendant in error or his attorney may waive
in writing the issaing or service of the summons. 
SEC. 517. PLA .. INTIPF JY ERROR TO FILE TJr.USCRIPT OF RJ:CORD. 
The plaintifff in error shall file with hie petition a transcript of
the proceedings containing the final judgment or order sought to 
be reversed, vacated, or modified. 
SEC. :518. WHEN A.""ID BY WHO:\I TRA"SSCRIPT FURNISHED. 
Judges of courts of probate, justices of the peace and other
judicial tribunals having no clerk, and the clerks of every court 
of record shall, upon request and being paid the lawful fees there­
for, furnish an authenticated transcript of the proceedings, con­
taining the judgment or final order in said courts, to either of the
parties to the same, or to any person interested in procuring such 
transcript. 
SEC. 519. WHE..'i PROCl:EDJNOS IN J:.RROK SHALL STAY EXEOt'TTON O~ JUDG~T
-UNDBRTAKlNG. 
No proceeding to reverse, vacate, or modify any judgment or
final order rendered in the }:>robo.te coart, eourt of common pleas,
superior court of Cleveland, or superior or commercial court of
Cincinnati, or district court, except as provided in the next· sec­
tion, and the fourth subdivision of this section, shall operate to
stay execution, unless the clerk of the court in which the record
of such judgment or final order shall be, shall take a written un­
dertaking, to be executed on the part 6f the plaintifff in error to
the adverse party, with one or more safficiem sureties, as follows: 
1. When the judgment or final order sought to be reversed, di­
rects the payment of money, the written undertaking shall be iQ 
double the amount of the judgment or order, to the effect that the
plaintifff in error will pay the condemnation money and costs in
~ase the judgment or final order shall be affirmed in whole or in
part: 
2. When it directs the execution of a convcyaoce, or other in­
strument, the undertaking shall be in such sum as may be pre- 
scribed by any court of record in this state or any judge thereof,
to the effect that the plaintifff in error will abide the judgment, if
the same shall be affirmed, and pay the costs : 
3. When it directs the sale or delivery of possession of real
property, the undertaking shall be in such sum as may be pre­
scribed by any court of record of this state or any ,judge thereof,
to the effect, that during the possession of such property by the
plaintifff in error, he will not commit or suffer to be committed any
waste thereon, and if the judgment be affirmed, he will pay the
value of the use and occupation of the property from the date of
the undertaking until the delivery of the possession, pursuant to 
the judgment, and all costs. When the judgment is for the sale
of mortgaged premises, and the payment of a deficiency arising 
from the sale, the undertaking must also provide for the payment
of such deficiency. 
4. When it· directs the assignment or delivery of documents,
they may be placed in the custody of the clerk of the court in
which the judgment was rendered, to abide the judgment of the
appellate court, or the undertaking shall be in such sum as may
be prescribed as aforesaid, to abide the judgment, and pay costs, 
if the same shall be affirmed. 
a. See section 607. 
SEC. 520. SUBSTITUTE FOR WDERTAKl~G. 
Instead of the undertaking prescribed in the second subdivision
of the last section, the conveyance or other instrument may be ex­
ecuted and deposited with the clerk of the court in which the
judgment was rendered or order made, to abide the judgment of
the appellate court. 
SEC. 521. U.rmERT.A.KING TO BE APPROVED. 
Before the written undertaking mentioned in section five hun­
dred and nineteen shall operate to stay execution of the judgment
or order, the execution of the undertaking and the sufficiency of
the sureties, must be approved by the court, in which the judg­
ment was rendered or order made, or by the clerk thereof; and
the clerk shall indorse said approval, signed by himself, upon the
undertaking, and file the same in his office, for the defendant in
error. 
SEC. 522. DBFBNDA.NT IN ERROR MAY OBTAIN BXJ!IOUTION BY GIVING SECURITY. 
In an action arising on contract, for the payment of money
only, notwithstanding the execution of the undertaking in the last
section mentioned to stay proceedings, if the defendant in error
give adequate security to make restitution in case the judgment is
reversed or modified, he may upon leave obtained from the court
below, or a judge thereof in vacation, proceed to enforce the judg­
ment. Such security must be an undertaking executed to the
plaintifff in error by at least two sufficient sureties, to the effect
that if the judgment be reversed or modified, he will make full
restitution to the plaintifff in error of the money by him received
under the judgment. 
a. Ko rule is prescribed as to the grounds upon which the leave is to be
granted, or refused; and it is admitted that the matter is confided to the dis­
cretion of the court or judge. Valley Bank e, West & Co., 2 Handy, 61. 
b. The tribunal that decided the controversy in the first instance and ren­
dered the judgment, is to grant or refuse the leave to enforce the judgment. IF,, 
e, That the grounds upon which, under the ,wt regulating appeals to the dis­
trict court (Swan's Rev. Stat. 717), damages are imposed on the a.ffimumce of
the judgment of the court below, form no guide by which the court can con­
strue section 522 of the Code. lb. 
d. When the amount undisputed is large, and that litigated on error is
small, and they are susceptible of separation as distinct claims; it seems un­
just to withhold from the party the undisputed. part of his demand, until that
litigated can be determined in a court of error. lb. 
e. Where the claim litigated on error was statutory damages, on a bill of ex­
change of $5,000, and the damages were only $300, the court allowed execu­
tion for the $5,000, but required an agreement to be filed by the plaintifff' to 
stay execution and any other proceedings as to the damages, and the costs in
the genera.I term of the superior court. lb. 
SEC. 523. WHEN PROCEEDINGS IN ERROR HUST BE COMMENCED. 
No proceeding for reversing, vacating, or modifying judgments
or final orders shall be commenced unless within three years after
the rendition of the judgment, or making of the final order com­
plained of: or, in case the person entitled to such proceeding be
an infant, a married woman, a person of unsound mind, or impris­
oned, within three years as aforesaid, exclusive of the time of 
such disabi ity. 
SEC. 524. STAY OF EXECUTION ON JUDGMENT OF JUSTICE OF THE PEACE-UNDER·
TAKING. 
No proceeding to reverse, vacate, or modify any judgment ren­
dered, or final order made, by a justice of the peace, shall operate
as a stay of execution, unless the clerk of the court of common
pleas shall take a written undertaking to the defendant, executed
on the part of the plaintifff in error, by oae or more sufficient sure­
ties, to the effect that the plaintifff will pay all the costs which have
accrued, or may accrue, on such proceedings in error, together with
the amount of any judgment that may be rendered against such
plaintifff in error, either on the further trial of the case, after the
judgment of the court below shall have been set aside, or reversed,
or upon and after the a.fli.rmance thereof in the court of common
pleas. The person entitled to such proceeding, 1ha.ll have the
same time for prosecuting the same, before he is barred, as is pro­
vided in the last section, unless the said judgment has been paid
off, or satisfied prior to the commencement of such proceeding. 
SEC. 525. WHEN COURT KAY ORDER STAY OF EXECUTION. 
Execution of the judgment, or final order of any judicial tribu­
nal, other than those enumerated in this title, may be stayed on
such terms as may be prescribed by the court, or a judge thereof,
in which the proceedings are pending. 
SEC. 526. PROCEEDINGS ON REVERSAL OF Jl'DG.MENT ON ERROR. 
When a judgment or final order has been or shall be reversed,
either in whole or in part, in the court of common pleas, the dis­
trict court, or supreme court, the court reversing the same shall
proceed to render such judgment as the court below should have
rendered, or remand the cause to the court below for such judg- 
. ment ; and the court reversing such judgment or final order, shall
not issue execution in causes that are removed before them on er­
ror, on which they pronounced judgment, as aforesaid, but shall send
a special mandate to the court below, as the case may require, to
award execution thereupon ; and such court to which such special
mandate is sent, shall proceed in such cases in the same manner as 
if such judgment or final order had been rendered therein ; and on
motion, and good cause shown, it may suspend any execution made
returnable before it by order of the court of common pleas, the
district court, or supreme court, in the same manner as if such exe­
cution had been issued from its own court, but such power shall not
extend further than to stay proceedings, until the matter can be
further heard by the court of common pleas, the district court, or
supreme court, as the case may be: Provided, this section shell
not apply to judgments of justices of the peace. [ As amended,
April 11, 1857. 54 0. L. 100.J 
«. Wher~ the judgment of U1e court below is simply affirmed by the supreme
court, the clerk of the court below, on being satisfied of the nffirml\Ilce, either
by journal entry or otherwise, may proceed to issue execution in the original
cause, without waiting for a mandate or other requisition, to carry the judg­
ment into execution. Howard v . .Abbey, 1 Wes. Law Monthly, 278. 
SEc. 527. Cosrs IN aauon. 
When a judgment or final order is reversed, the plaintifff in error 
• 
shall recover his costs, and when reversed in part, and affirmed in
part, costs shall be equally divided between the p~rties. 
a. Where a case is dismissed for wo.nt of jurisdiction of the subject matter,
it is error in the court to render judgment against each party for his own costs,
such judgments o.nd the proceedings to reverse them, are ex parte; and the
statutory provision as to costs, upon reversal in error, does not apply. Where
the proceedings are of an adversary character, the statutory rule applies. Nor­
ton ti. McLeary, 8 0. St. 205. 
SEC. 528. MISPRISION OF OLERK NO GROUND OF RBVERS.il. 
A mistake, neglect or omission of the clerk shall not be a ground
of error, until the same has been presented and acted upon in the
court in which the mistake, neglect or omission occurred. 
SEC. 529. RENDERING JUDGHBNT PRBMA.TURELY A CLERICAL MISPRISION. 
Rendering judgment before the action stood for trial according
to the provisions of this Code, shall be deemed a clerical error. 
SEC. 530. WRITS OF ERROR AND OERTIORARI ABOLISHED. 
Writs of error and certiorari to reverse, vacate or modify judg­
ments, or final orders, in civil cases, are abolished, but courts. shall
have the same power to compel, complete and perfect transcripts
of the proceedings containing the judgment or final order sought
to be reversed, to be furnished, as they heretofore had under writs
of error and certiorari. 
a. The writ of certiorari is abolished, in civil cases, and petition in error
substituted. Hobbs v. Beckwith, 6 0. St. 252. 
b. A proceeding to reverse an order made by a state judge discharging a pris­
oner on habeas corpus, is, in its nature, a civil proceeding, and must be by peti­ 
wm in error, and not by certiorari Ex po.rte Collier, 6 0. St. 55.
c. Writs of error in civil cases are expressly abolished. Schooner Marinda 
e, Dowlin, 4 0. St. 500. 
SEC. 531. PBOCEEDINGS WHEN JUDGllENT OF JUSTICE OF THE PEACE IS AFFIRllED 
IN OOlDION PLEA.8. 
If the judgment of a justice of the peace, taken on error as
herein provided to the court of common pleas, be· affirmed, it shall
be the duty of such court to render judgment against the plaintifff
in error, for the costs of suit, and to award execution therefore;
and the court shall thereupon order its clerk to certify its decision 
in the premises, to the justice, that the judgment affirmed may be
enforced, as if such proceedings in error had not been taken ; or 
such court may award execution to carry into effect the judgment
of such justice, in the same manner as if such judgment had been
rendered in the court of common pleas. 
SEC. 532. PROCEEDIXGS WHEN JUDG)IENT OF JUSTICE OF THE PEACE IS RE·
VERSED. 
When the proceedings of a justice of the peace are taken on
error .to the court of common pleas, in manner aforesaid, and the
judgment of such justice shall be reversed, or set aside, the
court shall render judgment of reversal, and for the costs that have 
accrued up to that time, in favor of the plaintifff in error, and award
execution therefore; and the cause shall be retained by the court
for trial and final judgment, as in cases of appeal. 
a. Where a justice of the peace postponed rendering judgment upon a ver­
dict to a subsequent day, and for this reason the judgment W¥ reversed by the
common pleas court, the common pleas must retain the cause for trial and final
judgment. Robinson v. Kions & Rowe, 4 0. St..,593. 
SEC. 533. REVIEW OF ORDERS AND DECREES IN CHA..'.'CERY. 
The final orders, or decrees of courts of chancery heretofore
rendered, or which may hereafter be rendered, in any chancery
proceeding pending at the time this· Code takes effect, may be re­
viewed in the same manner, and within the same time, as if this
Code had not taken effect; and all suits in chancery, pending at
that time, may be prosecuted to final decree in ~ike manner. 
SEC. 534. ColDION PLBA.8 OR DISTRICT COURTS MAY VACATE OR MODIFY J'UDGMEN'T
OR ORDER AFTER THE TERll EXPIRES. 
A court of common pleas, or district court, shall have power to
vacate, or modify its own judginents, or orders, after the term at 
which· such judgment or order was made:
1. By granting a. new trial for the cause, within the time, and 
in the manner prescribed in section three hundred and one :
2. By a. new trial granted in proceedings against defendants 
constructively summoned, as provided in section seventy:
8. For mistake, neglect or omission, of the clerk, or irregularity 
in obtaining a jndgment, or order:
4. For fraud practiced by the successful party in obtaining the 
judgment or order :
5. For erroneous proceedings against an infant, married woman, 
or person of unsound mind, where the condition of such defend­
ant does not appear in the record, nor the error in the pro­ 
ceedings:
6. For the death of one of the parties before the judgment in 
the action: 
7. For unavoidable casualty or misfortune, preventing the party
from prosecuting or defending : 
8. For errors in a judgment shown by an infant in twelve
months after arriving at full age, as prescribed in section three
hundred and eighty-six. ' 
9. For taking judgments, upon warrants of attorney, for more
than was due to the plaintifff, when the defendant was not sum­ 
moned, or otherwise legally notified of the time and place of tak­
ing such judgment. 
8EC. 535. MOTION TO CORRECT MISPRISIO~ OF CLERK. 
The proceedings to correct mistakes· or omissions of the clerk, 
or irregularity in obtaining a judgment, or order, shall be by mo- 
tion, upon reasonable notice to the adverse party, or his attorney
in the actlon. The motion to vacate a judgment because of its 
rendition before the action regularly stood for trial, can be made 
only in the first three days of the succeeding term. 
SEC. 536. WHES PETITIO:S ..l:SD A..FFID.ffIT MUST BE FILED. 
The proceedings to vacate or modify the judgment or order on
the grounds mentioned in subdivisions four, five, six, seven, eight
and nine of section five hundred and thirty-four, shall be by peti­
tio~ verified by affidavit, setting forth the judgment or order, the
grounds to vacate, or modify it, and the defense to the action, if
the party applying was defendant. On such petition a summons
shall issue and be served as in the commencement of an action. 
SEC. 537. Gnot;XDS RELIED ox lfA\' ,BE FIRST TRIED. 
The court may first try and decide upon the grounds to vacate,
or modify a judgment, or order, before trying, or deciding upon
the validity of the defense or cause of action. 
SEC. 538. CosDITIO:SS OY WHICH JCDtUIEXT lU.Y DE YACATED OR MODIFIED. 
A judgment shall not be vacated on motion or petition, until it
is adjudged that there is a valid defense to the action in which the
judgment is rendered; or if the plaintifff seeks its vacation, that 
there is a valid cause of action; and where a judgment is mod­
ified, all liens and securities obtained under it, shall be preserved
to the modified judgment. 
a. If the matter set up as a. defense to the action in which the judgment was
rendered, will, if substantiated, constitute a. valid defense, and it is made ap­
parent to the court that the defense is insisted on in good faith, and a fair 
p1·i111a facie case is established by the defendant in the original action, then
the judgment should be set aside, and the case set down for trial. Pomeroy e,
Drake, 1 Wes. Law Monthly, 28j. 
b. A judgment entered upon a warrant of attorney will be set aside, and the
cause set down for trial, on motion of the defendant, when it appears that the
motion is made in good faith, and, that prima facie a defense exists, if the de­
fendant was not summoned, or otherwise legally notified of the time and place
of taking such judgment. lb. 
SEC. 539. \VHEN .L"'i INJUNCTIOS llAY BE ALLOWED. 
The party seeking to vacate or modify a judgment or order, may 
obtain an injunction suspending proceedings on the whole or part 
thereof, which injunction may be granted by the court or any
judge thereof, upon its being rendered probable, by affidavit or by
exhibition of the record, that the party is entitled to have such
judgment 'or order vacated or modified. 
8EC. 540. Jt"DG:'IIEST PRE:'IUTURE'f:.Y RENDEJO:D '.\L\Y DE VACATED, THOGGH NO
DE FEN SS. 
When the judgment was rendered before the action stood for
trial, the suspension may be granted as provided in the last sec­
tion, although no valid defense to the action is shown ; and the
court shall make such orders concerning the executions to be
issued on the judgment, as .shall give to the defendants the same
rights of delay he would have had, if the judgment had been ren­
dered at the proper time. 
SEC. 541. \VHAT TDIE PROCEEDINGS TO VACATE OR llODIFY MAY BE COllMENCED. 
Proceedings to vacate, or modify a judgment, or order, for the
causes mentioned in subdivisions four, five and seven of section five
hundred and thirty-four, must be commenced within two years
after the judgment was rendered, or order made, unless the party
entitled thereto be an infant, married woma-y., or person of un­
sound mind, and then within two years after removal of such dis­
ability. Proceedings for the causes mentioned in subdivisions
three and six of the same section, shall be within three years, and
in subdivision nine within one year after the defendant has notice
of the judgment. 
SEC. 542. PROVISIO~S OF THIS TITLE TO APPL\" TO St'PREllE AND PROBATE COt:RTS. 
The provisions of this title subsequent to section 533, shall
apply to the supreme court, and probate court, so far as the same
may be applicable to the judgments, or final orders of such courts.
The parties shall be limited to the same time in which to com­
mence proceedings, and in estimating time, the probate court
shall, for this purpose, be considered as holding, in each year,
three terms of four months each, the first commencing on the first
of January of each year. 
• 
SEC. 543. Nos-RESIDENT PLAINTlFF TO GIVE SECGRITY FOR COSTS. 
In all cases in which the plaintifff is a non-resident of the county
in which the action is to be brought, before commencing such ac­
tion the plaintifff must furnish a sufficient surety for costs. The
surety must be a. resident of the county where the action is to be
brought, and approved by the clerk. His obligation shall be com­
plete, simply by indorsing the summons, or signing his name on
the complaint as security for costs. He shall be bound for the
payment of all costs, which may be adjudged against the plaintifff
in the court, in which the action is brought, or in any other to
which it may be carried, and for the costs of the plaintifff's wit­
nesses, whether the plaintifff obtained judgment, or not. 
SEC. 544. AcTIO~ TO BE orsxnsssn UNLESS SECl'RITY rs.crvsx. 
CHAPTER X AN ACTion in which security for costs is required by the last sec­
tion, and has not been given, shall be dismissed on the motion and 
notice by the defendant at any proper time before judgment, un­
less in a reasonable time, to be allowed by the court, such security
for costs be given. 
SEC. 545. SECURITY :&IAY BE REQUIRED IF PLAIXTIFF BECO:\IES NON·RE~IDEXT. 
If the plaintifff' in an action, after its commencement, become a
non-resident of the county in which it is brought, he shall give se­
curity for costs, in the manner and under the restrictions provided 
in the two preceding sections. 
SEC. 546. WHEN .ADDITIONAL SECURITY )IAY BE REQUIRBD. 
In an action in which security for costs has been given, the de­
fendant may,· at any time before judgment, after reasonable notice
to the plaintifff', move the court for additional security on the part
of the plaintifff; and if, on such motion, the court be satisfied that
the surety has removed from this state, or is not sufficient, the ac­
tion may be dismissed, unless, in a reasonable time to be fixed by
the court, sufficient security be given by the plaintifff. 
SEC. 54 7. JUDGMENT AG.U!\ST SECURITY. 
After final judgment has been rendered in an action, in which
security for costs has been given, as required by this chapter, the
court, on motion of the defendant, or any other person. having a
right to such costs, or any part thereof, after ten days' notice of
such motion, may enter up judgment in the name of the defendant,
or his legal representatives, against the surety for costs, his execu­
tors or administrators, for the amount of costs adjudged against
the plaintifff, or so much thereof as may be unpaid. Execution me.y
be issued on such judgment, as in other oases, for the use and ben­ 
efit of the persons entitled to such costs. 
SEC. 548. "\VHEN IXFORllER t"NDER PENAI, STATUTE SHALL PAY COSTS. 
If any informer, under a penal statute, to whom the penalty, or
any part thereof, if recovered, is given, shall dismiss his suit or
prosecution, or fail in the same, he shall pay all costs accruing on
such suit or prosecution, unless he be an officer, whose duty it is 
to commence the s;me. • 
SEC. 549. CosTS ON DISCLAI.l!ER. 
Where defendants disclaim having any title, or interest in land, or
other property, the subject matter of the action, they shall recover
their costs, unless for special reasons the court decide otherwise. 
SEC. 550. COSTS OF MOTIOYS AND AME.."\"D'.\IEYTS. 
Unless otherwise provided by statute, the costs of motions, con­
tinuances, amendments, and the like, shall be taxed and paid, as
the court, in its discretion, may direct. 
SEC. 551. WHEN COSTS ALLOWED TO PLAINTIFF OF CO'C"RSec. 
Where it is not otherwise provided by this and other statutes,
costs shall be allowed, of course, to the plaintifff upon a. judgment
in his favor, in actions for the recovery of money only, or for the
recovery of specific real or personal property. 
~~:c. 552. W1mN PLAI:s-TIFF SHALL .NOT RECOn:R COSTS. 
If it shall appear that n justice of the peace has jurisdiction of 
CHAPTER X AN ACTion, and the same has been brought in any other court, the 
plaintifff shall not recover costs : and in all actions for libel, slan- 
der, malicious prosecution, assault, assault and battery, false im­
prisonment, criminal conversation, or seduction, actions for nuis­
ance, or a.ga.inst a justice of the peace for misconduct in office, if
the. damages assessed be under five dollars, the plaintifff shall not
recover any costs. 
a. The amount claimed in the petition determines the jurisdiction· of the
court of common pleas. Brunaugh e, Worley, 6 0. St. 5n. 
l'>. If the plaintifff' claims in his petition more than one hundred dollars, ju­
risdiction is not ousted, although the recovery be less than one hundred dol­ 
lars. 11'>. 
c. 'Whatever may be the amount of the particular verdict, the plaintifff' is en­
titled to judgment; but as to costs, if the recovery be less than one hundred
dollars, judgment for the plaintifff's costs can not be rendered, unless the
amount of the plaintifff's claim is found by the jury to be more than one hun­
dred dollars, and is reduced by the allowance of a counterclaim or set-off to
less than one hundred dollars. lb. 
d. The act giving justices of the peace exclusive original jurisdiction of any
sum not exceeding one hundred dollars, did not abrogate sec. 552 of the Code,
as to the recovery of costs in cases where, from tbe verdict, it appears that the
amount in controversy did not exceed one hundred dollars. lo. 
e, In an action of trespass to realty, originally commenced in the common
pleas, the plaintifff' can not recover costs if the verdict is for less than one hun­
dred dollars. Van Buskirk e. Dunlap, 2 Wes. Law Monthly, 125. 
f. The amount claimed determines what court has jurisdiction; but the
amount of the plaintifff's claim, as found by the court or jury, determines tho
right to recover costs. lo. 
SEC. 553. WHEN COSTS ALLOWED TO DEFENDANT, OF COURSec. 
Costs shall be allowed, of course, to any defendant upon a judg­
ment in his favor in the actions mentioned in the last two sections. 
8~. 554. WHEN COSTS VNDER COXTROL OF COCRT. 
In other actions the court may award and tax costs, and appor­
tion the same between the parties on the same or adverse sides, as
in its discretion it may think right and equitable. · 
SEC. 555. WHO TO PAY COSTS IN SEVERAL ACTIONS AGAINST PARTIE.'I TO THE
SillE IXSTRUllE.~T. 
Where several actions are brought on one bill of exchange,
promissory note, or other obligation or instrument in writing,
against several parties, who might have been joined as defendants
in the same action, as allowed by section thirty-eight, no costs shall 
be recovered by the plaintifff in more than one of such actions, if
the parties proceeded against in the other actions, were, -at the
commencement of the previous ltction, openly within the state. 
SEC. 556. FEES O:S SIDDIONS ISSUED OUT OF COUNTY. 
When a summons is issued to another county than that in which
the action or proceeding is pending, it may be returned by mail,
and the sheriff shall be entitled to" the same fees as if the summons
had issued in the county of which he is sheriff. 
SEC. 557. ACTION TO DETEmllXE ADVERSE er.ams TO REAL PROPERTY .. 
CHAPTER X AN ACTion may be brought by any person in possession by him­
self or tenant, of real property, against any person, who claims
an estate or interest therein, ad verse to him, for the purpose of
determining such adverse estate or intcrest.1 
" 
SEC. 558. PETITION Dl ACTION TO RECOVER POSSESSION OF REAL PROPERTY. 
In an action for the recovery of real property, it shall be suf­
ficient, if the plaintifff' state in his petition that he has a real estate 
therein, and is entitled to the possession thereof, describing the
same, as required by section one hundred and twenty-six, and that 
the defendant unlawfully keeps him out of the possession. It shall
not be necessary to state how the plaintifff's estate or ownership is
derived. 
SEC. 559. THE AXSWER. 
It shall be sufficient, in such action, if the defendant, in his an­
swer; deny, generally, the title alleged in the petition, or that he
withholds the possession, as the case may be; but if he deny the
title of the plaintifff, possession by the defendant shall be taken as
admitted. Where he does not defend for the whole premises, the
answer shall describe the particular part for which defense is made. 
SEC. 560. PETITIO~ DY TEXAXT I~ COllMON AGAINST CO·TJ,;NAXT. 
In an action by a tenant in common of real property, against a.
co-tenant, the plaintifff must state, in addition to what is required
irr section five hundred and fifty-eight, that the defendant either
denied the plaintifff's right, or did some act amounting to such 
denial. 
SEC. 561. 
... 
RBCOYERY WilERE RIGHT TER'.l[[:s'ATES Dl:'RIXO THE I'EXDEXCY OF THE
ACTIO:s'. 
In an action for the recovery of real property, where the plain­
tiff shows a right to recover at the time the action was commenced,
but it appears that his right has terminated during the pendency
of the action, the verdict and judgment must be according to the
fact, and the plaintifff may recover for withholding the property. 
a. See section 39 and notes. 
SEc. 562. {Repealed, April 12, 1858. 55 0. L. 84.J It was as follows: 
SEC. 562. In. an action for the recovery of real property, the
party against whom judgment is rendered, may, at any time during
the term at which the judgment is rendered, demand another trial 
by notice on the journal, and thereupon judgment shall be vacated,
and the action shall stand for trial at the next term. 
SEc. 563. [Repealed, April 12, 1858. 55 0. L. 84.J It was as roilows: 
SEC. 563. NO further trial can be had in such action, except
upon appeal, unless for good cause shown as in other actions. 
SEC. 564. OCCUPYING CLADlANT1 S RIGHTS. 
The parties in an action for the recovery of real property, may
avail themselves, if entitled thereto, of the relief of the s'tatutes in
force for the relief of occupying claimants of land. 
8Ec. 505. AcTIO:S 01'' w ASTE. 
The action of waste is abolished, but any proceedings hereto­
fore commenced, or judgment rendered, or right acquired, shall not
be affected thereby: and where the action of waste is specially
mentioned and authorized in any statute, it may be used until orh­
erwise provided; but it shall be commenced and proceeded in
throughout, in the manner prescribed for the civil action of this
Code. Wrongs heretofore remediable by actions of waste, are sub­
jects of action as other wrongs, and the same relief shall be granted,
as may now be granted under the action of waste. 
~F.C. 566. WHO HAY SUE ON OFFICIAi, BO!ti'DS.-ACTIO~ MAY BE llAINT.11:NED OS
A COPY OF BOND. 
When an officer, executor or administrator, within this state, by
misconduct or neglect of duty, forfeits his bond or renders his sure­
ties liable, any person injured thereby, or who is, by law, entitled
to the benefit of the security, may bring an action thereon, in his
own name, against the officer, executor or administrator, and his
auretles, to recover the amount to which he may be entitled by rea­
son of the delinquency. The action may be instituted and pro­
ceeded in on a certified copy of the bond, which copy shall be fur­
nished by the person holding the original thereof. 
SEC. 567. ONE ACTION :SO BAR TO A...~OTHER-WHEN CAUSE OF ACTION DIFFERENT. 
A judgment in favor of a party for one delinquency, does not
preclude the same or another party, from an action on the same
security, for another delinquency. 
SEC. 568. 
The provisions of the existing statutes relating to the partition
of lands, tenements and hereditaments, are not affected by this 
Code, and partition may be made under the same, as heretofore,
until the legislature· shall otherwise provide. The provisions of
such statutes shall also apply to actions for such partition brought
under this act, so far as the same can be so applied to the sub·
stance and subject matter of the action, without regard to its form. 
SEC. 569. lli..'.OAMUS-TO WHOll A.ND FOR WHAT ISSUED. 
The writ of .mandamus may be issued to any inferior tribunal,
corporation, board, or person, to compel the performance of an act, 
which the law specially enjoins as a. duty resulting from an office,
trust or station. But though it may require an inferior tribunal to
exercise its judgment, or proceed to the discharge of any of its
functions, it can not control judicial discretion. 
~EC. 5i0. IN WHAT CASES NOT TO ISSt:E. 
This writ may not be issued in any case, where there is a plain
and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of the law. It may
issue on.the information of the party beneficially interested. 
a. The writ of mandamus does not lie unless the party applying has no
other adequate legal remedy. Shelby v. Hoffman, 7 0. ~t. 450. 
b. This writ lies in all cases where the relator has a clear legnl ri~ht to the
performance of some official or corporate act by a public officer or corporation,
and no other adequate specific remedy. C. W. & Z. R. R. Co. e, Comm'rs Clinton
Co., I 0. St. 77. 
SEC. 571. ,VRIT ALTER:S-ATIVE OR PEREllPTORY. 
The writ is either alternative or peremptory. The alternative
writ must state concisely the facts .showing the obligation of the
defendant to perform the act, and his omission to perform it, and 
. command him, that immediately upon the receipt of the writ, or
at some other specified time, he do the act required to be per­
formed, or show cause before the court whence the writ issued, at
a specified time and place, why he has not done so; and that he,
then and there, return the writ, with his certificate of having done
as he is commanded. The peremptory writ must be in a similar
form, except that the words requiring the defendant to show cause
why he has not done as commanded, must .be omitted. 
SEC. 5i2. WHEN PBREMPTORY WRIT ALLOWED. 
When the right to require the performance of the act is clear,
and it is apparent that no valid excuse can be given for not per­
forming it, a peremptory mandamus may be allowed in the first
instance. In all other cases, the alternative writ must be first 
issued. 
SEC. 5i3. MoTION FOR WRIT. 
The motion for the writ must be made upon affidavit, and the
court may require a notice of the application to be given to the
adverse party, or may grant an order to show cause why it should 
·not be" allowed, or may grant the writ without notice. 
SEC. 574. How WKIT ALLOWED AYO SERVED. 
The allowance of the writ must be indorsed thereon; signed by
a judge of the court granting it, and the writ must be served per­
sonally upon the defendant. If the defendant duly served neglect
to return the same, he shall be proceeded against, as for a. con­ 
tempt. 
a. Writs of mandamus shall be issued in duplicate, and transmitted to the
sheriff' of the proper county, who sho.ll serve the same, by delivering to the
defendant one of said duplicates forthwith after receiving the same, and shall
return the other of said duplicates to the clerk of the court issuing the same,
with his certificate of the time and manner of the service thereof 
A writ of mandamus, unless otherwise specially ordered, shall be served on
or before the second Monday next after the date thereof; and the writ shall
command the defendant or defendants, to return and answer the same. on or
before the third Saturday after said second Monday, a.t the place of the hold­
ing of the court, to be named in the writ. And in all cases, when the applica­
tion for a writ of mandamus is founded on an.r written contract, or other writ­
ten instrument, a copy thereof must be attached to, and filed with the motion. 
If not so attached and filed,· the reason thereof must be shown in the motion.
And a copy of such contract or instrument attached to' and filed with the
motion, shall be attached to the alternative writ served on the defendant. Rule 
XVI of the Supreme Court; 5 0. St. R. 
SEC. 575. ANSWER. 
On the return-day of the alternative writ, or such further day,
as the court ma.y allowythe party on whom the writ shall have
been served, may show cause, by answer made, in the same man­
ner as an answer to a petition, in a civil action. 
SEC. 576. PROCERDINGS IF NO ANSWER, OR ANSWER OF NEW MATTER. 
If no answer be made, a. peremptory mandamus must be allowed
against the defendant. If an answer be made, .containing new
matter, the same shall not in any respect, conclude the plaintifff,
who may on the trial or other proceeding, avail himself of any
valid objection to its sufficiency, or may countervail it by proof,
either in direct denial or by way of avoidance. 
SEC. 5i7. PLEADI:s'GS-TRIAL. 
No other pleading or written allegation is allowed, than the writ
and answer. These are the pleadings in the case, and have the
same effect and are to be construed and may be amended in the
same manner, as pleadings in a civil action; and the issues thereby 
joined, must be tried and the further proceedings thereon had in
the same manner, as in a civil action. 
a. The writ and the answer are the oaly pleadings in the case. The peti­
tion, or motion, upon which the writ issues, is no part of the pleadings. The
writ must show whnt is claimed nnd tho facts upon which the claim is made.
The clerk is not required to draft the writ. It must be prepared by counsel,
and submitted to the court before it issues. Johncs e, Auditor of State, 4 0. 
St. 493. 
i. The writ may be amended. lb.
c. For the mo<le of summoning, Impanneling, challenging, etc., of .a jury in 
the supreme court, to try issues of fact in quo wa.rrn.nto and mandamus, see
Rule X[ of Supreme Court. 
d. No reply is allowed by the Code in proceedings in mandamus. Section
577 of the Code provides that "no other pleading or written allegation is
allowed, than the writ and answer." The allegations of fact in the answer,
inconsistent with the statement of facts in the writ, will, for the purposes of
the proceeding, and to join nn issue or issues therein, be deemed controverted,
as upon a specific denial, without reply. State ex rel Beckel v. Union Town­
ship, 9 0. St. 
SEC. 578. Jt'DGMEYT FOR PLAlNTIFF-DAlUGES. 
If judgment be given for the plaintifff, he shall recover the dam­
ages which he shall have sustained, to be ascertained by the court
or a jury or by referees, in a. civil action, and costs; and a per­
emptory mandamus shall, also, be granted to him without delay. 
SEC. 5i9. Jt,-UO'.\IE:'\T DAR TO A;li"OTHER ACTIO:S. 
A recovery of damages by virtue of this chapter, against a
party, who shall have made a return to a writ of mandamus, is a
bat to any other action against the same party for the making of
such return. 
SEC. 580. WHEN FINE MAY BB IMPOSED. 
Whenever a peremptory mandamus is directed to any public
officer, body or board, commanding the performance of any public
duty, specially enjoined by law, if it appear to the court, that such 
officer, or any member of such body, or board, has, without just
excuse, refused or neglected to perform the duty so enjoined, the
court may impose a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars, upon
every such officer, or member of such body or board. Such fine,
when collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the county, where
the duty ought to have been performed; and the payment thereof, 
1a a bar to -an action for any penalty incurred by such officer,
or member of such body or board, by reason of his refusal or 
neglect to perform the duty so enjoined. 
SEC. 581. STYLE OF PROCESS. 
The style of all process shall be, " The State of Phio, ---­
county." It shall be under the seal of the court from whence 
the same shall issue, shall be signed by the clerk and dated the
day it issued. 
SEC. 582. How PROCESS DIRECTED WHEN SHERI.FF A PAltTT. 
An order for a provisional remedy or any other process, in an
action wherein the sheriff is a party, or is interested, shall be
directed to the coroner. If both these officers are interested, the
process shall be directed to and executed by a person appointed
by the court or judge. 
SEC. 583. Cot:;RT MAY APPOI:s'J: A l'J:RSO:s' TO llilE SERVICE. 
The court or judge, for good cause, may appoint a person to
serve a particular process or order, who shall have the same power
to execute it, which the sheriff has. The person may be appointed
on the motion of the party obtaining the· process or order, and
the return must be verified by affidavit. He shall be entitled to
the fees allowed to the sheriff for similar services. 
SEC. 584. CLERKS TO ISSUE PROCESS OY PRECIPE BEING FILED. 
All writs and orders for provisional remedies, and process of
every kind shall be issued by the clerks of th~ several courts. Be­
fore they shall be issued, a precipe shall be filed with the clerk de­
manding the same. 
a. The clerk of the court is not bound to issue an execution without the
written precipe of the party demanding it, or his attorney. Ohio use Spencer 
11. Caffee, 6 0. R. 150. 
SEC. 585. FILING PAPERS. 
It is the duty of the clerk of each of the courts to file together,
and carefully preserve in his office, all papers delivered to him for
that purpose, in every action or special proceeding. · 
SEC. 586. TIME OF FILING PA.PERS TO BE INDORSED. 
He shall indorse upon every paper filed with him, the day of fil­
ing it; and upon every order for a provisional remedy, and upon
every undertaking given under the same, the day of its return to
his office. 
SEC. 587. EYT.RY ON DOCKET OF PARTIES SUMMONED. 
He shall, upon the return of every summons served, enter upon
the docket the name of the defendant or defendants summoned,
and the day of the service upon each one. The entry shall be evi­
dence of the service of the summons, in case of the loss thereof. 
SEC. 588. CLERK TO KBBP RF.cORDS • 
• 
He shall keep the records, and books and papers appertaining 
to the court, and record its proceedings. 
SEC. 589. l>ocKETS TO BE PREPARED BY CLERK. 
The provision of Article VIII of Title 'Ix, prescribing the duties
of clerks of the court of common pleas, shall, as far as they are
applicable, apply to the clerks of other courts of record. 
SEC. 590. GENERAL PO'WERS A.~D D'C'TIFA 
The clerk of each of the cour.ts shall exercise the powers and
perform the duties conferred and imposed upon him by other pro­
visions of this Code, by other statutes, and by the common law. 
In the performance of his duties, he shall be under the direction of
his csurt. 
CHAPTER III. 
DUTIES OF SHERIFFS. 
SECTION 59). Sheriff' to indorso on process the time he receives it.
59~. Exeeute and return process-liability for neglect. 
593. May adjourn court when judge fails to attend-effect. 
594. General powers and duties. 
SEC. 59]. SHERIFF TO INDORSB ON PlitOCESS TBB TIMB BB RBCBIVBS IT. 
The sheriff' shall indorse upon every summons, order of arrest,
or for the delivery of property, or of attachment or injunction, the 
day and hour it was received by him. 
8Ec. 592. EXECUTB A.ND RETURN PROCESS-J.IABILITY FOB 1'i"EOLEOT. 
He shall execute every summons, order, or other process, and
return the same as required by law; and if he fail to do so, unless
he make it appear to the satisfaction of the court that he was pre­
vented by inevitable accident from so doing, he shall be amerced
by the court in a sum not exceeding one .thousand dollars, and 
shall be liable to the action of any person aggrieved by such 
failure. 
SEC. 593. }fay ADJOURN COURT WHEN JUDGE FAILS TO ATTEND. 
'•
If the judge of a court having but one judge, or if a quorum of 
the judges of any court having two or more, fail to attend at the
time and place appointed for holding their respective courts, the
sheriff shall have power to adjourn the court from day to day un­
til the single judge attends, or a quorum is convened; but, if the
single judge be not present in his court, or the quorum of judges
in their court, within two days after the first day of the term, then
such court shall stand adjourned for the term. 
SEC. 594. GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES. 
The sheriff shall exercise the powers and perform the duties con­
ferred and imposed upon him by other provisions of this Code, bJ
other statutes, and by the common law. 
CHAPTER IV. 
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS. 
SF.CTION 595. Powers of deputy officer.
596. When affirmation sufficient.
597. How time computed.
598. Right of party in default to a jury.
599. When surety may justify.
600. Qualifications of sureties.
601. .Judges of supreme court to make rules. 
8:EC. 595. POWERS OP DEPUTY OFFICER. 
Any duty enjoined by this Code ·upon a ministerial officer, and
any act permitted to be done by him, may be performed by his
lawful deputy. 
Sec. 596. Wmt:s- AFFIRMATION SUFFICIENT. 
Whenever an oath is required by this Code, the affirmation of a 
• 
person conscientiously scrupulous of taking an oath, shall have the
same efl'ect. 
SEC. 597. How TIXE COMPUTED. 
The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the
last; if the last day be Sunday,.it shall be excluded.' 
SEC. 598. RIGHT OF PARTY IN DEFAULT TO A Jt;RY. 
Section three hundred and seventy-six shall not be construed ~o
impair the right of a party to a jury, if he appear at the trial by
himself or attorney, and demand the same. 
I 
SEc. 599. W1m~ srRJ·:TY MAY JUSTIFY. 
Tl\e ministerial officer, whose duty it is to tpke security in any
undertaking provided for by this Code, shall have the right to re­ 
quire the person offered as surety, to make an affidavit of his qual­
ifications, which affidavit may be made before such officer. The
taking of such an affidavit shall not exempt the officer from any
liability, towhich he might otherwise be subject, for taking insuf­
ficient security. 
SEC. 600. QC'ALIFICATIONS OF SC'RETY. 
The surety in every undertaking provided for by this Code, must
be a resident of this state, and worth double the sum to be secured,
beyond the amount of his debts, and have property liable to exe­
cution in this state, equal to the sum to be secured. Where there
are two or more sureties in the same undertaking, they must, in
the aggregate, have the qualifications prescribed in this section. 
SEC. 601. JUDGES OF SUPREME COt;RT TO :&IAKE RULES. 
The judges of the supreme court shall, during the month of the
first January after this Code shall take effect, and every two years
thereafter, meet at the capitol of the state and revise their general
rules, and make such amendments thereto as may be necessary to 
carry into effect the provisions of this Code; and they shall make
such further rules consistent therewith as they may deem proper.
The rules so made shall apply to the supreme court, the district
courts, a.nd the courts of common pleas: 
SEC. 602. 
The provisions of this Code do not apply to proceedings in ac­
tions, or suits pending when it takes effect. They shall be con­
ducted to final judgment, or decree, in all respects, as if it had
not been adopted ; but the provisions of this Code shall apply after
a judgment, order, or decree heretofore or hereafter rendered, to
the proceedings to enforce, vacate, modify, or reverse it, except as
provided in section five hundred and thirty-three. 
RmnTS OF ACTION t'XDER EXl8TlXG LAWS TO DE ENFORCED UNDER THE 
Co DJ!!.
SEC. 603. 
I 
Rights of civil action given, or secured by existing laws, shall
be prosecuted in the manner provided by this Code, except as pro­ 
vided in section six hundred and four. If a case ever arise, in
which an action for the enforcement or protection of a right, or 
the redress or prevention of a wrong, can not be had under this
Code, the practice heretofore in use, may be adopted, so far as
may be necessary to prevent a. failure of justice. 
SEC. 604. CODE NOT TO CONTROL CERTAIN PROCERDJNGS. 
until the legislature shall otherwise provide, this Code shall not
affect proceedings on habeas corpus, quo warranto, or to assess
damages for private .property taken for public uses; nor proceed­
ings under the statutes for the settlement of estates of deceased
persons; nor proceedings under statutes relating to dower, di­
vorce, or alimony ; or to establish, or set aside a will ; nor pro­
ceedings under statutes relating to apprentices, arbitration, bas­
tardy, insolvent debtors; nor any special statutory remedy not
heretofore obtained by action ; but such proceedings may be pros·
ecuted under the Code, whenever it is applicable. 
SEC. 605. WHEN A FOR:\! OF ACTION OR PROCEEDING E."'CPRESSLY PROVIDED BY
STATUTE MAY BE USBD. 
Where, by statute, a. civil action, legal or equitable, is given,
and the mode of proceeding therein is prescribed, this Code shall
not affect the proceedings under such statute, until the legislature
shall otherwise provide ; but the parties may, if they see fit, pro­
ceed under this act, and in all such cases, as far as it may be con­
sistent with the statute giving such action and practicable under
this Code, the proceedings shall be conducted in conformity
thereto. Where the statute designates by name or otherwise, the
kind of action, but does not prescribe the mode of proceeding 
therein, such action shall be commenced and prosecuted in con­ 
formity to this Code ; where the statute gives an action, but does
not designate the kind of action, or prescribe the mode of pro­ 
ceeding therein, such action shall be held to be the civil action
of this Code, and proceeded in accordingly. 
SEC. 606. ACTS REPEALED. 
The following acts and parts of acts are hereby repealed:
CHAPTER X AN ACT allowing and regulating writs of attachment, passed 
January 17, 1824.
CHAPTER X AN ACT pointing out the manner in which suits may be prose­ 
cuted on the bonds of executors, administrators and officers,
passed February 23, 1816. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to provide for the taking of depositions, passed March
3, 1831. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend an act entitled "An act to provide for the
taking of depositions," passed February 24, 1834. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend an act entitled " An act dispensing with proof
in certain cases," passed March 9, 1838. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT dispensing with proof in certain cases, passed December
18, 1823. 
An a.ct providing the mode of perpetuating testimony in certain
cases, passed February 6, 1824. 
Section yu, of an act to regulate the taxation and collection of
costs, passed March 9, 1835. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT regulating judgments and executions, passed March 1,
1831. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend an act entitled "An act regulating judgments
and executions," passed April 3,"1837. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to abolish imprisonment for debt, passed March 19, 1838.
CHAPTER X AN ACT amendatory of an act entitled "An act to abolish im­ 
prisonment for debt," passed March 16, 1839.
The first seven sections of an act concerning mesne process in . 
civil and criminal cases, passed February 10, 1831.
CHAPTER X AN ACT to regulate the practice of the judicial courts, passed . 
March 8, 1831.
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend the act to regulate the practice of the judicial 
, courts, passed February 24, 1834.
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend the act entitled " An~ act to regulate the prac­ 
tice of the judicial courts, passed March 9, 1835.
CHAPTER X AN ACT further to amend the act to regulate the practice of the 
judicial courts, passed March 14, 1837_.
CHAPTER X AN ACT directing the mode of proceeding in chancery, passed 
March 14, 1831.
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend an act entitled "An act directing the mode of 
proceeding in chancery," passed March 14, 1838.
Section 3 of an act in relation to incorporated religious socie­ 
ties, passed March 5, 1836.
CHAPTER X AN ACT allowing and regulating writs of replevin, passed Febru­ 
ary 17, 1831.
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend an act allowing and regulating writs of re­ 
plevin, passed February 13, 1833. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend the act allowing and regulating writs of re­
plevin, passed March 10, 1837. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT allowing mutual debts and demands to be set off, and
concerning tenders, passed February 19, 1824. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT for the relief of sureties and bail in certain cases, passed
February 22, 1820. 
Section nineteen of an act to provide for the regulatioa of''turn­
pike companies, passed January 7, 1817. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT further to amend the act entitled "An act to abolish
imprisonment for debt," passed March 19, 1838. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend the act entitled "An act to amend an act en­
titled an act directing the mode of proceeding in chancery,"
passed March 13, 1843. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend an act entitled " An act defining the powers
and duties of justices of the peace, and constables in civil cases,"
passed March 12, 1844. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to dispense with taking records in certain cases, and re
cording depositions, passed March 12, 1844 . 
.An act to regulate the practice of the judicial courts, passed
. )larch 12, 1844. 
Section two of an net to regulate judicial proceedings, where
banks and bankers are parties, passed March 8, 1845. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to regulate the judicial courts and the practice thereof,
passed March 12, 1845. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend an act entitled "An act to amend the act to
regulate the practice of the judicial courts," passed March 12, 
1845. .
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend an act entitled "An act directing the mode of 
proceeding in chancery," passed March 12, 1845.
Sections three and four of an act to amend the act entitled "An 
act defining the duties and powers of justices of the peace and
constables," passed February 17, 1846, and sections eighty-eight
and eighty-nine of an act defining the powers and duties of jus­
tices of the peace and constables in civil cases, passed March 
1-l, 1831.
CHAPTER X AN ACT to provide for the attendance of witnesses where the 
venue is changed, and in other cases, passed January 22, 1846.
CHAPTER X AN ACT in relation to writs of error, passed January 31, 1846.
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend an act directing the mode of proceeding in 
chancery, passed February 21, 1846.
CHAPTER X AN ACT to authorize suits upon contracts of insurance to be 
brought in the county in which the contract is made, passed Jan­
uary 21, 1847. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT authorizing subpenas to run into any county in civil
cases in which the state is a party in interest, passed February 
5, 1847"'
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend the act regulating judgments and executions, 
passed February 8, 1847.
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend section CV, of the practice act, passed Janu­ 
ary 11, 1848.
CHAPTER X AN ACT to provide for the service of process in local actions, 
passed February 2, 1848.
Section two of an act to amend an act fixing the rate of inter­ 
est, passed February 18, 1848. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend an act entitled "An act to regulate the prac­
tice of the judicial courts," passed February 24, 1848. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend "An act directing the mode of proceedings in
chancery," passed February 25, 1848. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT further to amend the act entitled "An act to regulate
the practice of the judicial courts," passed February 23, 1840. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend an act entitled" An act to amend an act di­
recting the mode of proceeding in chancery," passed March 21,
1849. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend "An act allowing and regulatin9 attachments,
and an act allowing and regulating writs of attachment before
justices of the peace," passed February 6, 1850. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT in. amendment of the practice of the judicial courts,
passed March 21, 1850. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT further to a.mend the act regulating judgments and exe­
cutions, passed March 20, 1850. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend the several acts directing the mode of pro­
ceeding in chancery, passed March 22, 1850. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to improve the law of evidence, passed March 23, 1850.
Section four of an act directing the manner of serving mesne 
process against railroad companies, passed March 21, 1850.
Sections three and four of an act to amend the act entitled 
"An act to regulate the practice of the judicial courts," passed
J~ua.ry 25, 1851. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT further to amend the act entitled "An act to regulate
the practice of the judicial courts," passed March 7, 1851. 
Section three of an act to amend the act entitled "An net to
amend the act to regulate the practice of the judicial courts,"
passed February 25, 1848; also, to amend the act passed March
21, 1850, "in amendment of the practice of the judicial courts,"
passed March 20, 1851. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to provide for the service of mesne process in certain
cases therein named, passed March 20, 1851. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to amend an act entitled "An act to improve the law of
evidence," passed March 22, 1851. 
Section three of an act for the more speedy collection of debts,
etc., from executors, administrators, and guardians in certain cases,
passed March 18,. 1851. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to repeal the 57th section of an act directing the mode 
of proceeding in chancery, passed March fourteenth, one t.iousand
eight hundred and thirty-one, and to direct the manner of, and
terms upon which decrees may be opened in causes where the same
have been rendered against parties without actual notice, passed
March 24, 1852. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to authorize courts of common pleas to appoint receiv­
ers in cases of attachment, and to repeal section four of the act
entitled "An act allowing and regulating writs of attachment,"
passed November 24, 1852. 
Section nineteen of an act for opening and regulating roads and
highways, passed January nineteen, eighteen hundred and· fifty­
three. 
· '• An act to facilitate the administration of justice in Hamilton
county," passed February 20, 1851, is not repealed by this Code. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT to fix permanently the terms and manner of holding the
courts of common pleas and the district court in Hamilton county,
and to provide for the organization and practice thereof, passed
January 23, 1852, is not repealed by section three hundred and
seven, or any other section of this Code. 
SEC. G07. \\rHEX EXECl.:TORS, AD)IINJSTRATORS .\XD GliARDIANS :SEED XOT crvs 
BO:-D. 
Executors, administrators and guardians, who have given bond
in this state, with sureties, according to law, are not required to
give the undertaking mentioned in section five hundred and nitie­ 
teen. 
Ssc, GOS. PEXALTY OX PROCEEDIXGS I:S ERROR. 
If the district court affirm a judgment on .petition in error, it
shall also render judgment against the plaintifff in error for five per
cent. upon the amount due from him to the defendant in error, un­
less the court shall enter upon its minutes that there was reason­
able ground for the proceedings in error. 
SF.c. 609. :EFFECT OF A WAIVER OF nnnons, 
A summons in error shall not be issued in any case in which
there is upon the minutes of the court, or among the files of the
case, a waiver of error by the party or his attorney, endeavoring
to commence such proceedings, unless the court in which the pe­
tition is to be filed, or a judge thereof, shall indorse on the same,
permission to issue such summons. 
SEC. 610. C.UES PENDING IN APPELLATB COURT HOW CONDUCT.Bl>. 
Cases pending in appellate courts on writs of error or otherwise,
when this Code takes effect, shall be conducted to final judgment,
as if it had not been adopted, and the liens of judgments and de­
crees rendered when it takes effect, shall be preserved. They shall
be enforced as provided in section six hundred and two; but pro­
cess already issued at such time, shall be ·carried on and executed. 
a. See Schooner Marinda v. Dowlin, 4 0. St. 500. 
SEC. 611. MASTER COHHISSIONEB. KAY BB APPOINTED. 
The court of common pleas may appoint in each county such
number of persons as shall be necessary to be master commission­
ers, who shall hold their office for the term of three years, unless
removed by the court for good cause. 
SEC. 612. OATH AND SBOURITY. 
Before entering upon the duties of his office, a master commis­
sioner must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and with one or
more sureties approved by the court, execute an undertaking to
the state of Ohio, in such sum as the court shall direct, to the ef­
fect that he will pay over all monies, and faithfully discharge the
duties of his office. The undertaking · shall be filed in the office
of the county auditor, and may be sued upon as provided in sec­
tion five hundred and sixty-six. 
8Bo. 613. FEES. 
A master commissioner shall be allowed such fees as are allowed
for similar services to other officers. 
Sec. 614. WHEN ACT TO TAKE EFFECT. 
This ~ct shall take effect on the first day of July, eighteen hun­ 
dred and fifty-three. 
TITLE XXL 
• 
SEC. l. ,VHEN A SECOND TRIAL MAY DE HAD--NEW TRIAL AFTER SECOND TRIAL. 
That a. second trial may be demanded and had in any civil action
which has been heretofore or may be hereafter instituted in any
court of common pleas in this state in which said court has orig­
inal jurisdiction, and in which either party has the right by law to
demand a trial by jury, and in which an issue of fact has been 
joined between the parties, or any two of them, by their pleadings
in the action, and after a judgment or final order has been or may
be rendered upon the terms and in the manner hereinafter provided,
and new trials may be granted in such actions after such second
trial thereof, upon the grounds and in the manner provided for the
granting of new trials by the Code of Civil Procedure. 
SEC. 2. NOTICE FOR SECOND TRIAL-UNDERTAKING. 
Any person desirous of such second trial, as provided for in the
preceding section, shall, at the term of the court at which judgment
was rendered, enter on the records of the court notice of his de­
mand for such second trial; and shall enter into an undertaking
within the time hereinafter limited, with security to the satisfac­
tion of the clerk of the court, payable to the adverse party, in such
sum as may be fixed by the court, and conditioned to the effect that
the party obtaining such second trial shall abide and perform the
order and judgment of the court, and pay all monies, costs and
damages whi<* may be required or awarded against him, conse­
quent upon such second trial; provided, that in no case shall admin­
istrators, executors or guardians, who may have given bond in this,
state, with sureties according to law, be compelled to enter into an
undertaking in order to be entitled to a second trial, as is above
provided. (As amended, March 31, 1859. 56 0. L. 93.] 
SEC. 3. SECOND TRIAL DOCKET-RULES GOVERNING SECO:'ll'D TRIAl,S. 
That there shall be made out and kept in the court of common
pleas, a second trial docket, in which shall be entered, in their or­
der, all causes in which the right to second trials shall have been
perfected as herein provided, which docket shall be called and the
causes thereon tried and disposed of under such standing rules as 
the several judges of the court of common pleas of the district, or
a majority of them, shall establish. 
SEC. 4. BILL OF EXCEPTIONS-WHEN AND HOW TA.KEN. 
In all causes pending in the court of common pleas, or either of
the superior courts in this state, either party shall have the right
to except to the opinion of the court on a motion to direct a non­
suit, to arrest the testimony from the jury, and, also, in all cases
of motion for a. new trial by reason of any supposed misdirection 
of the court to the jury, or by reason that the verdict, or in case
the jury be waived, that the finding of the court, may be supposed
to be against law or evidence, so that said case may be removed by
petition in error, and when a. party to a suit in either of the afore­
said courts alleges an exception to the opinion or order, or judg­
ment of such court, it shall be the duty of the jpdge or judges
of such court, concurring in such judgment, opinion or order, if
required by such party during the progress of the case, to sign
and seal a bill containing such exception or exceptions, before
the case proceeds; or, if the party consents, the signing and seal­
ing of such bill of exceptions may be suspended until the trial
is closed, but said bill of exceptions shall be signea and sealed
during the term, and such bill of exceptions, when signed and
sealed, shall, if the party desires it, be made part of the record in 
such suit'. 
SEC. 5. IN WHAT OASES AND PROM WHAT COURTS APPEALS MAY BB TA.XE~. 
That section one of an act entitled "An act regulating appeals
to the district court," passed March 28, 1852, be so amended as
to ·read as follows : That appeals may be taken from all final 
judgments, orders or decrees in civil actions, in which the parties
have not the right, by virtue of the laws of this state, to demand
a trial by jury, and interlocutory orders dissolving injunctions.
rendered by any court of common pleas in this state, in which it 
has original jurisdiction by any party against whom such judgment or order shall be rendered, or who may be. affected thereby
to the district court, and the action so appealed shall be again
tried, heard and decided in the district court in the same manner
as though the said district court had original jurisdiction of the 
action. 
SEC. 6. REPEAL OF SECTIOXS I AXD 12 OF THE ACT REGUL.\TIXO APPEALS TO THE
DISTRICT COURT-PROVISO. 
The said original section one and section twelve of the said act
regulating appeals to the district court, be and the same arc
hereby repealed; provided, however, that such repeal shall not
affect any action now pending in the district court, or any action
in which a party may have given notice of intention to appeal
from any judgment or order of any court of common pleas, in
which it has become too late to apply for a second trial under the
provisions of this act. 
SEC. 7. ,foDGES OF CO:U:UOX PJ.EAS TO FIX THE TERllS OF THE CO)lllOX PLEAS AND
DISTRICT COURTS. 
That the judges of the court of common pleas in each and
every common pleas district in this · state are hereby authorized, 
and it ~hall be their duty, to fix permanently the times for hold­
ing the courts of common pleas and district court, in each and all
of the counties in their respective districts, in the manner follow­
ing: The said judges or a majority of them, in each common
pleas district, on or before the first day of November in every
year, shall issue their written order to the clerk of the court of
common pleas of each and every county in their said district,
specifying precisely the commencement of the term of the district
court, and of the several terms of the court of common pleas in
said county, and in all the counties in said district: Provided,
that not less than three terms of the common pleas court shall be
appointed for any county for which three terms are now by law
provided. [ As amended April 6, 1859. 56 ·o. L. 238.] 
SEC. 8. LIST OF TJIB TBR.HS OF OOURT TO BE FURNISHED TO TBlil SBCRETARY OF
STATE. 
That immediately after the times of the terms of the common
pleas and district courts have been fixed as aforesaid, an ccurate 
list of the same shall be furnished to the secretary of state, and
the secretary of state shall forthwith thereafter cause copies of·
the list of the times of holding the common pleas and district
courts so fixed for each judicial district to be made out, and one
copy thereof to be forwarded to ea.ch judge of the court oT com­
mon pleas of the district. [As amended April 6, 1859. 66 0. 
L. 237.] 
SEC. 9. ORDER OF THE JUDGES. 
That the judges of the court of common pleas or a. majority of
them in each common pleas district, on or before the second Mon­
day in January of each year, shall issue their written order to the
clerk of the court of common pleas, of each and every county in
their said district, specifying precisely the commencement of the
terms of the common pleas and district courts. [ As amended
April 6, 1859. 56 0. L. 237.·] 
8EC. 10. DUTY OF CLERIC 
Whenever said order so issued shall have been received by the
clerk of the court of common pleas in any county, he shall imme­
diately enter the same upon the journals of the court of common
pleas and district courts in his said county in the same manner a.s
other entries when required are made upon said journals during
vacations of said courts, and said entries shall be full and sufficient 
evidence a.a to the legal terms for holding said courts as therein
ordered. The said clerk shall also cause a copy of said order cer­ 
tified by him to be published for four consecutive weeks in one or
more newspapers of general circulation in his said county. The
first publication of the same shall be in the first week in the month
next ensuing the date of said order. [ As amended April 6, 1859. 
66 0. L. 237. 
SEC. 11. Wno OOURTS TO BE HELD. 
The courts named in this act shall be held for every year, in· 
each judicial district, at the times fixed and ordered by the judges,
in accordance with the foregoing provisions, any act or acts to the
contrary notwithstanding ; provided that nothing herein contained
shall have reference to or control the holding of courts in the year
one thousand eight hundred and fifty-eight. 
SEc. 12. SPECIAL rznns OF THE DISTRIL'T cor nr. 
If from any cause there occur a failure to hold the prescribed
term of the district court in any county it shall Le the duty of
the common pleas judges of the district or a majority of them on
conference with one or more of the judges of the supreme court,
to appoint and hold, within the same year, a special term of the
district court in such county. And if, for the want of time or
other good cause, the business of the district court in any county
can not be disposed of at the regular term thereof, it shall be
lawful for the judges of said court, whenever, in their opinion,
the bush-less is of sufficient importance, to appoint and hold a
special term of said court in such county. Thirty days' previous 
notice of the holding of said special terms shall be given in the
county wherein the same are ordered to be held. 
SEC. ] 3. REPEAL OF CERT AI~ STATUTES. 
That sections one, two, three, four, five, six and seven of the act
entitled "An act to authorize the judges of the court of common
pleas of each judicial district to fix permanently the times for
holding the courts of common pleas and district courts therein,"
passed March 29, 1856, and also sections five hundred sixty-two
and five hundred sixty-three of an act entitled an act to establish
a. Code of Civil Procedure, passed March 11, 1853, be and the
same are hereby repealed. 
SEC. ] 4. ,v HEN ACT TO TAKE EFFECT. 
This act shall ta.ke effect from and after its passage. 
SEC. 15. ( 3.) ·w HES SECO~D TRIAL NOT AI.I.O'\\"'ED. 
That whenever notice is entered upon the records of the court
of a party's demand of a second trial under the provisions of the
act to which this act is amendatory and supplementary, such sec­
ond trial shall not be allowed unless the court is of the opinion
that the case Is one in which a trial by jury may be demanded by 
either party. 
SEC. 16. ( 4.) ORDER OF COl"RT Af,LOWING OR DISAJ.I.OWING SECO~D TRIAL 
The opinion of the court allowing or disallowing a second trial,
shall be entered upon the journal of the court, and, if in favor of
the allowance of a second trial, then the undertaking required by
the said second section of said act, as amended, shall be entered
into within thirty days after the entry of said allowance. 
SEC. 17. ( 5.) APPE.\L FROll ORDER. 
If the opinion of the court shall be adverse to the allowance of
the second trial, either party may appeal to the district court from
the judgment rendered in the case, by giving notice thereof and
entering into an appeal bond, agreeably to existing statutes. 
SF.c. 18. (6.) P1t0CEEDl,.GS ox DIS}IISSAL OF APPE.\J. OR REYERS.U. OF ononn, 
If the order of the court adverse to the allowance of the second
trial, shall be reversed upon error by the district court, or if the
action shall be appealed and the appeal be dismissed on the ground
that a second trial should have been allowed, then and in either
case the action shall be remanded to the court of common pleas,
and the party or parties on whose petition the said order was re­
versed, or the party or parties who may have appealed such action,
as the case may be? may, at the term of the court at which the
mandate is received, enter on the records of the court his demand
for a second trial; and thereupon such action shall be proceeded
in, in all respects, as if said judgment, so reversed, had been ren­
dered at said term. 
,SE~. 19. (7.) Pn::>ef:EDl:SG~ WHIO:-!~ ORDER FOR SECO:SD TRIAL IS RIWERSED. 
If the order of the court allowing a second trial shall be re­
versed for error therein by the district court, then said action
shall be retained for trial by the last named court as upon appeal,
and the last' mentioned court shall fix the amount and condition of 
the undertaking, to be given to obtain such trial, for the party or
parties who may request it; and thereupon the party or parties
desiring such trial shall, within thirty days from the time of the ·
entry of the reversal of the order allowing such second trial, enter
into an undertaking in the amount and condition prescribed by
the district court, to the acceptance of the clerk thereof, which
shall be filed in the office of the said clerk; and thereupon such
action shall be proceeded in, in all respects, as if the same had 
been originally appealed on notice regularly entered and under­ 
taking given pursuant to the act regulating appeals to the district 
court. 
SEC. 20. (R) EFFECT OF SBCOSD TRIAL AB TO LIEN ON REAJ, ESTA.TE. 
In all cases where the party against whom judgment is rendered
obtains a second trial under the act to which this act is amends­
tory and supplementary, the lien of the opposite party on the 
real estate of the party so obtaining such second trial created by
said judgment, shall not be by the obtaining of such second trial
removed or vacated. but the real estate of said party so obtaining
such second trial shall he hound in the same manner as if said
second trial had not been demanded until the final determination
of the cause. 
:;Ee. 21. (9.) Wm:x ACT TO TAKE EFFECT. 
This act shall take effect on the 15th of April next. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT HEGn,ATJXG APP:EAL:-5 TO THE Dl~THICT corrrr. 
[Pa.mcl, March 23, 1~52. 50 0. L. ~13 J 
~EC'TIOX 22. In what cases and from what courts appeals may be tnken.
:!3. Notice of nppenl-undertuking-prncecdings in case of death 
of appellant.
24. Amount and condition of undertaking-when to he fixed by 
the court.
25. When a separate npponl may he taken.
20. Penalty where same judgment is rendered by the appellate 
court.
2i. Stny of execution when notice of appeal is entered.
28. Lien of judgment when case is nppealed.
29. When nppellant shall pay costs on appeal. '
:m -Iudgment below suspended hy appeal.
31. :-=u bpenn for witnesses.
3:.?. JI ow case tried in appellate court.
33. ~('ction twelve repealed. 
8Ec. 22. (I.) Is WHAT C.\l'ES AXD FR0:'11 WTIAT COt:RTS APPEALS llAY DE TAKEN. 
That appeals may be taken from all final judgments, orders or
decrees in civil actions, in which the parties have not the right,
by virtue of the laws of this state, to demand a trial by jury, and
interlocutory orders dissolving injunctions rendered by any court
of common pleas in this state, in which it has original jurisdiction,
by any party against whom such judgment or order shall be· ren­
dered, or who mny be affected thereby to the district court, and
the action so appealed shall be again tried, heard and decided in
the district court in the same manner as though the said district
court had original jurisdiction of the action. [ As amended, April 
12, 1858. 55 0. L. 81.] 
SEC. 23. (2.) NOTICE OF AP!'EAf,-CSDERT.\KING-PROCEEDD.OS IX CASE OF DEATH
OF .\PPELLA:ST. 
The party desirous of appealing his cause to the district court,
shall, at the term of the court in which the judgment or decree was
rendered, enter on the records of the court notice of such inten­
tion, and shall, within thirty days after the rising of such court,
give an undertaking, with one or more sufficient sureties, to be ap­
proved by the clerk of the 'court or any judge thereof, in the pen­
alty and with the conditions hereinafter provided. When a party 
to such judgment or decree shall have given notice as aforesaid,
and shall die within the time limited for such appeal, and before
perfecting the same, the administrator or executor of such deceased
party, at any time within thirty days after his appointment and
qualification, and within ninety days after the death of such party,
may cause notice of his intention, as such administrator or execu­
tor, to appeal such cause, to be entered upon the journal of said
court; and such administrator or executor shall thereby be made a. 
party to such judgment or decree, and such appeal shall be consid­
ered as perfected, and no undertaking shall be required, hut the 
same proceedings shall be had in such cause as in other cases of
appeal. [As amended, April 1-1, 1857. 5-1 0. L. 12~.] 
SEC. 24. (3.) A)lOUNT AND COXDITION OF t"NDERTAKIXG-WHEN TO DE FIXED DY
THE COURT. 
In all cases in which the judgment or decree is personal against
any party for the payment of money only, the penalty of the appeal
bond shall be doubfe the amount of such judgment or decree; in
all other cases, including cases in which the judgment or decree is
against any party for nominal damages and costs, or for ·costs only,
the court shall, at the time of the rendition of the judgment or de­
cree, ascertain and fix the penalty of the appeal bond, to be given
in the event of an appeal, at such reasonable amount as shall, in
the opinion of the court, be sufficient to cover any probable loss, 
damage or injury, which the other party or parties may sustain by
the delay, and the costs and damages which may be awarded in
the appellate court; each appeal bond shall be payable to the ad­
verse party, or otherwise, as may be directed by the court, where
the conflicting interests of the party require it; and shall be sub­ 
ject to a condition to the effect that the party appealing shall abide
and perform the order and judgment of the appellate court, and
shall pay all monies, costs and damages, which may be required of
or awarded against said party by such court . 
SEC. 25. (4.) WnES A SEPARATE APPE.\L :IIAY BE TAKE~. 
In all cases when the interest of any party desiring an appeal, is
separate and distinct from that of the other party or parties, and
he shall be desirous to appeal the part of the case in which he is
interested, it shall be so allowed by the court, and the penalty and
condition of the bond shall be fixed accordingly; and tho court
shall take such order as to the papers and pleadings, and supply­
ing copies thereof, and in all other respects, in view of a division 
of the case for the purpose of appeal, as may be deemed right and
proper. 
COURT.
SEC. 26. (5.) PE~ALTY WHERE SAME JUDGlIEXT IS RE:SDERED DY THE APPELLATE 
' 
When the appellate court shall render, substantially, the same
judgment or decree which was rendered in the court below, dam­ 
ages shall, or may be awarded as follows: In all cases where the
judgment or decree was for the payment of money, either person­
ally or otherwise, the appellant shall be adjudged to pay to the ap­
pellee, or party delayed of payment by the appeal, damages at the
rate of five per cent. on the amount of the payment adjudged or
decreed in the court below, unless the appellate court shall be sat­
isfied that there was reasonable and proper ground for the appeal;
and in any such case, where the court shall be satisfied that the
appeal was vexatious, and for the purpose of delay merely, the
damages adjudged shall be at the rate of ten per cent.; in all other 
I 
cases, including those where the judgment or decree is for nominal
damages, and costs, or costs only, unless the appellate court shall
be satisfied that there was reasonable and probable groun4 for the
appeal, there shall be adjudged to the nppellec, or party affected
by the appeal, damages in such specific sum as may be deemed
reasonable, not exceeding two hundred dollars . 
SEC. 27. (6.) STAY OF EXECL'TIOX WHE~ XOTICE 01" APPEAJ. IS EXTERED. 
In case notice of appeal is entlred as aforesaid, the court may,
on motion of the party entering such notice, on laying him under
such reasonable restrictions and terms as they may judge necessary
for the security of the adverse party, direct execution to be stayed
for thirty days: Provided, that in no case shall administrators or
executors and guardians, who may have given bond in this state,
with sureties, according to law, be compelled to give bond and se­
curity, in order to perfect an appeal, as i~ above provided; and in
such cases the clerk, if not otherwise directed, shall, at the expira­
tion of thirty days from the rising. of the court, make out a tran­
script, which, together with the papers and pleadings filed in the
cause, he shall transmit to the clerk of the district court, accord­
ing to the provisions of this act, in other cases of appeal. 
a. The statute exempts nn administrator from giving bond as required of
other parties; in order to perfect his right to an appeal, it is necessary for him
to use due diligence in porf ecting his appeal, by causing the transcript and pa­
pers to be filed at the next term of the district court after the end of the term
of tho court below, if the period ot thirty days shall have elapsed since tho end 
of such term; and that he can not be permitted to delay perfecting his appeal for
an indefinite period, for such n practice would mislead parties, and tend to pro­
tract liti.~ation unreasonably. The appellant having suffered the April term of
this court to pass by without causing his transcript to be filed, it wns too late 
to file it at the September term, and the appeal will, thereforee, be dismissed.
"Whetstone, ndm'r v. Thorp et al., 10 ,v. Law Journal, 15S. 
Ss; :B. (7.) Ltux OF JUo::rnEH WIIES' cxss IS .APPE.\~ED. 
That in all cases where the party against whom a judgment is ren­
dered, appeals his cause to the district court, the lien of the opposite
party on the real estate of said appellant, created by said judg­
ment, shall not be by said appeal removed or vacated ; but the real
estate of said appellant shall be bound in the same manner as if
said appeal had n'ot been taken, until the final determination of the 
cause in the district court. 
SEC. 29. (8.) WIIE!i APl'ELI • .\XT SHALL PAY COSTS OS APPEAL. 
That if the plaintifff appealing, shall not recover 11 greater sum
in the district court than in the court from which said appeal is
taken, exclusive of costs and interest which may have accrued
since the rendition of the judgment in the said court, he shall pay 
all costs that may have accrued in the district court in such case;
and if the defendant, in any personal action, shall remove the
same by appeal to the district court, and the plaintifff shall re­
cover, in such cause, a judgment for the same sum, or a larger
sum, than was recovered in the court below, exclusive of costs, the
district court shall render judgment for the sum so recovered,
with costs of suit. 
Bso, 30. (9.) JuDG.m:NT UELOW St:SPE:XDED BY APPEAL. 
That when an appeal shall be granted, and bond and security
given thereon as aforesaid, the judgment or decree rendered in
such case, in the court below, shall thereby be suspended; and the
clerk of such court shall forthwith make out an authenticated
transcript of the docket or journal entries, and of the final judg­
ment or decree made and rendered in the case; which transcript,
together with the original papers and pleadings filed in the cause,
he shall deliver into the office of the clerk of the district court,
on or before the first day of the term thereof, next after perfect­
ing the appeal in manner aforesaid; Provided, that either party
may require a. full record to be made of such cause, in the court
below; and tho same• when so required, shall be made at his own
proper costs and charges. 
a. An appeal from the common pleas to the district court vacates the report
of referees under the Code ; and the case stands for trial as if no reference had
been made below. Lawson v. Bissell, 7 0. St. 1~9. 
b. The clerk is required to forthwith make out an nuthenticated transcript
of the docket, entries, etc., which, together with the original papers and plead­
icgs, he shall deliver into the office of the clerk of the district court, on or be­
fore the first day of the term thereof, next after perfecting the appeal 
This requisition of the statute is directory to tho clerk. His omission to
perform his duty can not affect the jurisdiction of the court. \\'here the clerk
of the court below neglects to file the papers of the cause appealed, as he is re­
quired by the law to do, on the first day of the term of the district court next
after the appeal is taken, the appellant may have the case docketed and. the
papers filed one. subsequent day. Pugh v. Corwine, 10 \\T. Law Journal, 79. 
SEC. 31. (10.) SL"BPEXA F'OR WITXESSB& 
That the clerk of the district court shall, prior to the filing with
him of the transcripts, as hereinbefore provided, on the application
of either party to an appeal, issue subpenas for witnesses retuma- 
ble to the first day of the next term of said court, on satisfactory
proof being made before him that such appeal has been taken, 
8Ec. 32. (11.) How CA.SE TRIED I~ APPELLATE COGRT. 
That when any cause is removed by appeal into the district
court, the appeal shall be tried on the pleadings made up in the
court below, unless for good cause shown, the said court shall per­
mit either or both parties to alter their pleadings; in whicli case,
such court shall lay the parties under such equitable rules and re­
strictions as they may conceive necessary, to prevent delay. 
:-;1::c. 33. (12.) 
· [Repealed April 12, 1858 .. 55 0. L. 81.J 
HUPPLE)mXTARY AC'I'. 
[Passed April 8, 1S57. 54 0. L. 95.] 
~El'. i-t. (I.) A'.\IEND'.\IENT OR RESEW AL OF t!XDERT.\KIXO FOR APPE.lL. 
That in all cases where an appeal has been or shall be taken
from the court of common pleas to the district court, and the
surety in the undertaking for the appeal shall have removed from
the state, or for any cause whatever shall be insufficient, or if such
undertaking shall be insufficient in form or amount, it shall be law­
ful for the district court, on motion, to order a change or renewal
of such undertaking, or said court may order a. new undertaking
to be given, with security to be approved by said court, or the
clerk thereof; and if the said order of the said court shall be
complied with and obeyed, said appeal shall not be dismissed, but
said court shall proceed to hear and determine the cause in the
same manner as if the said order had not been made, but if the
said order of said court shall not be complied with and obeyed,
said appeal, on motion for that purpose, shall be dismissed, and
the judgment or decree in the court below shall be revived. 
8EC. 35. (I.) ORDER DISCHAROI~O OR REFt:SI:XG TO DISCII.\lWE AX ORDER OF AT·
TACIBIEXT :\JAY DE REVERSED. 
pr Any party to a suit affected by an order discharging or refusing
to discharge an order of attachment, shall be entitled to file a pe­ 
tition in error to reverse, vacate or modify the same as in other
cases. 
REC. 36. (2.) "~m:x PETITIOS TO DE FILED-l"~DERTAKING. 
When an order discharging an order of attachment is made, and
any party affected thereby, shall except thereto, the court or judge
shall fix the number of days, not to exceed thirty, in which such
party may file his petition in error~ during which time the prop­ 
erty attached shall be held by the sheriff or other officer, during
which period the petition in error shall be filed, and the party 
filing the same shall give an undertakipg to the adverse party with
surety or sureties to be approved by the court, in double the
amount nf the appraised value of the property attached, condi­
tioned to pay said adverse party all damages sustained by such
party, in consequence of the filing of said petition in error in the
event that said order of attachment shall be discharged by the
court in which said petition in error shall be filed as having been
wrongfully obtained. 
SEC. 37. (3.) PROCEEDISGS WHE~ PARTY EXCEPTIXO DIES. 
In case any party excepting to an order discharging or refusing
to discharge an order of attachment, shall die within the time lim­ 
ited for filing his petition in error, the administrator or executor
of such deceased party, at a.ny time within thirty days after his
appointment and qualification, may file his petition in error, and
thereby become a party to said cause, and shall not be required to
give the undertaking required by the foregoing section of this act: 
Provided, that no such petition in error shall be filed by any exec­
utor or administrator after one year from the making of such 
order . 
. SEC. 38. (4.) PnocEEDIXOS IN ORIGINAi, ACTION. 
The original action shall proceed to trial and judgment in every
other respect as though no writ of error had been prosecuted. 
AX ACT PltESCRIIllNG THE EFFECT OF 'l'EXDERS IX CERTAIK 
SEC. 
1 
CASES. 
[Passed March 12, 1853. 51 O. L. 397.J 
39. ( J.) TENDER ON MO".liEY CONTRACT BEFORE Sl:'IT HOW PLEAO-CgSTS­
TENDER OF PROPERTY OR LABOR IS PLEAD. 
That any action brought on any writing obligatory, promise or
contract, for the payment of money, if the defendant shall answer
and prove that he did tender payment of the money due on such
writing obligatory, promise or contract, at the time and place
where by such writing obligatory, promise or contract, he was
holden to pay the same, or at any time before the commencement
of said action thereon, and shall bring into court the money so
tendered, the plaintifff shall not have judgment for more than the
money so due and tendered without costs, and shall pay the de­
fendant his costsj and in any action brought on any writing oblig­
atory; promise or contract for the payment of any article or thing,
other than money, or for the performance of any work or
labor, if the defendant shall answer that he did tender payment
or performance of such writing obligatory, promise or contract, at
such time and place, and in such article or articles, work or labor,
as by such writing obligatory, promise or contract he was bound
to pay or perform, and if the court or jury shall find that he did
tender as alleged in his pleading, they shall at the same time
assess the value of the property or labor so tendered, and there­
upon judgment shall be rendered in favor of the plaintifff, for the
sum so found, without interest or costs ; unless the defendant shall
forthwith perform his contract or give to the plaintifff such assur­ 
ance as the court may approve, that he will perform the same
within such time as the court shall direct; in which case judgment
shall be rendered for the defendant ; and in case any article so 
. tendered be of a perishable nature, it shall from the time of such
tender, be kept at the risk and expense of the plaintifff, provided 
the defendant take reasonable care of the same. 
~J.:i~. 40. "(J.) Wnax ll.-DIA<n:s MAY DE RECO,ERED FOR C..\USIXO DE.\TII DY WROXG­
FUL ACT, NEGJ.ECT on DEFAUJ.T. 
That whenever the denth of a person shall be caused by wrong­
ful act, neglect or default; and the act, neglect or default is such
as would, (if death had not ensued,) have entitled the party injured
to maintain an action nnd recover damages, in respect thereof; then,
and in every such case, the person who, or the corporation which
wouhl have been liable, if death had not ensued, shall be liable to
CHAPTER X AN ACTion for damages, notwithstanding the death of the person
injured, and although the death shall have been caused under such
circumstances as amount, in law, to murder in the first or second 
degree, or manslaughter. 
SEC. 41. (2.) \V'uo EXTITLED TO DRIKG THE ACTIOX-\\"ITHIN WHAT TnlE TO BE 
llROt:'OIIT. 
Every such action shall be brought by and in the name of the
personal representatives of such deceased persons; and the amount
recovered in every such action, shall be for the exclusive benefit of
the widow and next of kin of such deceased person, and shall be
distributed to such widow and next of kin in the proportions pro- .
vided by law in relation to the distribution of personal estates, left
by persons dying intestate; and in every such action, the jury may
give such damages as they shall deem fair and just, not exceeding
five thousand dollars, with reference to the pecuniary injury re­
sulting from such death to the wife and next of kin to such de­
ceased person: Provided, that every such action shall be com­
menced within two years after the death of such deceased person. 
SEC. 42. (1.) CERTADi UNINCORPORUED COllP • .\~IES llAY St'E AND BE SGED IN
FIRM NAME. 
That any company or association of persons, formed for the pur­
pose of carrying on any trade or business, or for the purpose of
holding any species of property, within the state of Ohio, and not
incorporated as such, may sue or be sued, in any of the courts of
this state, by such usual or ordinary name as such company, part­ 
nership or association may have assumed to itself or be known by;
and it shall not be necessary in such case to set forth, in the pro­
cess and pleadings, or to prove at the trial, the names of the per­ 
sons composing such company. 
811.'C. 43. (2.) How PROCESS SERVED. 
That process against any such company or firm, under the pro­
visions of this act, shall be served by a. copy left at their usual
place of doing business within the county; and executions issued
on any judgment rendered in such proceedings, shall operate only
on the partnership property. 
SEC. 44. (3.) SECURITY FOR COSTS. 
That in cases where a. company shall sue under this act, by its
partnership name, or name of association, such company shall pro­
cure the writ to be indorscd by a responsible surety, resident of
the county where suit is brought, for costs, or give security for
costs in other sufficient form. 
SEC. 45. ( 4.) How INDIVIDUAL PROPERTY REACHED. 
That if the plaintifff, in any judgment so recovered against a com­
pany or partnership, shall seek to charge the individual property 
of the persons composing such company or firm, it shall be lawful
for him to file a bili in chancery (see Code, section 605), against
the several members thereof, setting forth his judgment and the
insufficiency of the partnership property to satisfy the same; and
to have a decree for the debt, and an award of execution against
all such persons or any of them, as may appear to have been mem­
bers of such company, ·association or firm. 
SEC. 46. ( 5.) Fo&lIEK LA ws 1s }'ORCE. 
The remedies given in this act shall not be considered as repeal­
ing the laws in relation to suits by and against companies and part­
ners, but as in addition to such remedies. 
SEC. 47. (1.) REC01m OF RETURNS l.i'POX E.~ECUTION-DUTY oF cI,ERK:. 
That it shall be the duty of the clerk of the court of common
pleas in the several counties of this state, to record at length in the
execution docket, now required by law to be kept by such clerk,
the return of the proper officers, of all levies made on real estate
under executions at law, and the return by the like officers of all
subsequent proceedings had by such officers, in pursuance of such
levies; and the records which shall be so kept as aforesaid, in pur­
suance of this act, shall be construed to be a part of the records 
of such court. 
SEC. 48. (2.) FEES OF THE CI.ERK. 
That the clerk shall be entitled to receive, as compensation for
the services required of him by this act, ten cents for every hun­
dred words contained in the records so by him made, as aforesaid,
to be taxed nnd collected in the same manner as other costs of in­ 
crease in the proper cases. 
• 
SF.C. 49. (I.) EXECUTION DOCKET. 
That the record required to be kept by the first section of said
act, passed February 25, 1848, may be kept in a. docket provided
for that purpose, and all such dockets or record books which have
been, or shall be hereafter, used and devoted to the recording of 
· such levies and returns, shall be taken and considered as parts of
the execution dockets designated by the first section of said act. 
SEC. 50. (2.) DUTY OF OFFICER~. 
Whenever any officer shall make sale of any real estate by vir­
tue of any execution or order of sale, it is hereby made his duty
to tax and collect, as increase costs for the clerk, the compensa­
tion provided for in the second section of said act. 
A~ ACT OONCERNING THE ENACTING AND REPEALING OF
81'ATUTES. 
[Pas~d, April 8, 1856. 53 0. L. 153.] 
SECTION 51. When laws take effect '
52. Repeal of statntea, 
SEC. 51. (1.) 1VHEN LAWI TAKE EFFECT. 
That every law passed which contains no prov1S1on as to the
time when it shall take effect, shall take effect on the first day of
May next after its passage. 
SEC. 52. (2.) REPEAL OF 15TATt;TES. 
That whenever a statute is repealed, such repeal shall in no man­
ner affect pending actions founded thereon, nor causes of action
not in suit that occurred prior to any such repeal, except as may
be provided in such repealing statute. 
SEC. 53. (1.) How DEPOSITIONS TAIEN IN THIS STATE TO 'BE USED JY OTHER
STATES. 
That any party to any civil action, cause or matter, pending be­
fore any court, or before any mayor or any other judicial officer of 
a city, or town corporate, or before any arbitrators, or referees of
any other state, district or territory of the United States, may ob­
tain the testimony of any witness residing in this state, to be used
in such other state, district or territory. 
"\.. 
SEC. 54. (2.) How WITN~SSES smrsoxan. 
Any officer or commissioner, authorized by any other state, dis­
trict or territory of the United States, to take depositions in this 
state, shall have power at the instance of the party wishing to ob­
tain the deposition Qr any witness, to eausesuch witness, if he re­
side in the county where his deposition is to be taken, by process
of summons, to appear before him, on reasonable notice, at a cer­
tain time and place, therein specified . 
SEC. 55. (3.) TESTDIO~'"Y TO BE TAKEN IN W1UTINO. 
The officer or commissioner, before whom such witness shall ap­
pear, shall take down his testimony in writing, and shall certify
and transmit the same to the court or tribunal before which such
civil action, cause or matter is pending, in such manner as the,
practice of the court or tribunal may require. 
SEC. 56. (4.) ATTACflXEXT MAY ISSUE FOR WITNESS. 
If any person shall refuse or neglect to attend at the time and
place mentioned in the summons, issued in accordance with this act,
not having a reasonable excuse for such refusal or neglect, or if, 
on his attendance, he shall refuse to testify, or answer any ques­
tion, not being protected by law from testifying .thereto, the officer
or commHlhioner issuing such summons, is hereby authoriz!d and
empowered to compel such person, by attachment, to appear and
answer, under such penalties as would be incurred, for a like of­
fense, on the trial of a civil action before a justice of the peace, in
this state: Provided, that before any person, summoned as afore­
said, shall be compelled to testify, he shall be paid, if he demand
them, his lawful fees for attendance. 
SEC. 57. (5.) COMPENSATION OF WI~E88. 
Any person who shall appear and testify, in manner aforesaid,
shall be entitled to receive, from the party at whose instance he
shall have been summoned, seventy-five cents for each day he shall
g·iv·e his attendance, and five cents per m'ile from his place of resi­
denee, to and from the place of taking such deposition; and if any
person summoned as aforesaid, shall appear, and not be called upon
to testify, he shall receive, for his attendance, the same compensa­ 
tion as he would be entitled to, by this act, for each day's attend­ 
ance. 
SEC. 58. (6.) PBNALTY FOR PERJURY. 
That if any person, on his oath or sffirmatlon; duly administered
by any officer or commissioner authorized to take depositions by
virtue of this act, shall willfully and corruptly depose, affirm, or de­
clare any matter to be fact, knowing the same to be false, or shall,
in like manner, deny any matter to be fact, knowing she same to
be true, every person so offending shall be deemed guilty of per­
jury, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be imprisoned in the pen·
itentiary of Ohio, and kept at hard labor, not more than ten, nor 
less than three yea.rs. · 
8F.c. 59. (7.) PE~ALTY FOR Sl:'BORNATION OF PERJURY. 
That if any person shall persuade, procure, or suborn, any other
person to commit willful and corrupt perjury, in manner aforesaid, 
every person so offending shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
and .upon conviction thereof, shall be imprisoned in the peniten­
tiary of Ohio, and kept at hard labor, not more than ten, nor less
than three years. 
~EC. 60. (8.) WHEN ACT TO TAKE EFFECT. 
Thi~ act shall take effect and be in force from an, after its
passage. 
SEC. 61. ( 1.) 
CHAPTER X AN ACT IN RELATIO~ TO DEPOSITIONS.
[Passed, Febr1tary IO, 1857. 54 0. L. 10.] 
That in all cases in which it is lawful to take depositions, and to
which the act hereinafter mentioned does not apply, they may be
taken and authenticated upon the notice and in the manner pre­
scribed in the act entitled "an act to establish a Code of Civil Pro­
cedure," and no other notice or authentication shall be necessary;
and they may be taken before any officer authorized by said act to 
take depositions. 
AN AC'f TO AMEKD HECTION 8IXTY-~EVEN OF AN ACT ENTITLED
"AN AC'f SUPPLEME:STARY TO 'l'llE ACT DEf~JNJNG THE JURIS­
DICTION AND REGULATING THE PRACTICE OF PROBATE
COURTS," PASSED MAY 1, 1854. 
. [Paased, February 1, 1856. 53 0. L. 8.] 
SECTION 62. Appeals from probate court.
63. Repealing clause.
64. Appeals from probate court. 
SEC. 62. (1.) APPEALS FROM PROBATE COURT. 
That appeals may be taken from any order, decision or decree
of the probate court, in settling the accounts of an executor, ad­
ministrator or guardian, in proceedings for the sale of real estate
for the payment of debts, or in proceedings for the execution and
completion of real contracts, by any person against whom such
order, decision or decree shall be made, or who may be affected
thereby, to tho court of common pleas of the proper county, and
the cause so appealed shall be tried, heard and decided in the court
of common pleas, in tho same manner as though the said court of 
common pleas had original jurisdiction thereof. This act to ap­
ply to all cases now pending, and to take effect from and after its
passage. 
SEC. 63. (2.) REPEALING CLAUSec. 
That said section sixty-seven of said act, supplementary to the
act defining the jurisdiction and regulating the practice of probate
courts, passed May 1, 1854, be and the same is hereby repealed. 
SEC. 64. APPEAi,s FROM PROBATE COGRT. 
Appeals shall be allowed from any final order, judgment or de­
cree of the probate court to the court of common pleas, by any
person against whom any such order, judgment or decree may be
made, or who may be affected thereby, in the same manner as is
provided for appeals from the probate court, in the act entitled
'' an act supplementary to the act entitled 'an act defining the ju­
risdiction and regulating the practice of probate courts,' passed.
March 14, 1853, and to amend said act," passed May 1, 1854. 54 
0. L. 204. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT SUPPLE:MEKTARY TO AK ACT ENTITLED "AN ACT TO
E8'l'ABLISH A CODE OF CJVIL PROCEDURE," PASSED MARCH 
11, 1853. 
[ Passed, March 30, 1859. 56 0. L. 93. J 
SECTION 65. Proceedings to enjoin the collection of judgments.
66. Service of process.
67. Opening decree when service made by publication.
68. When act to take effect. 
SEC. 65. (1.) PROCEEDI~OS TO ENJOIN THE COLLECTION OF JUDGMENTS. 
That whenever a party to a judgment seeks to enjoin the collec­
tion thereof by injunction, and shall make an affidavit that the
party sought to be enjoined is a non-resident of the state, or has
left the same to avoid the service of the summons or order of in­
junction, or so conceals himself that process can not be served
upon him, the sheriff or other officer having in his hands the execu­
tion issued on such judgment, may be made a party defendant to
the action; and the action may be brought in the county in which
such officer resides ; and in all such cases the party to the judg­
ment sought to be enjoined, and upon whom actual service can not 
be made, may be served by publication of notice in the manner
prescribed by sections seventy-one and seventy-two of the act to
which this is supplementary. And such service shall be proved in
the same manner as is prescribed by section seventy-three of
said act. 
SEC. 66. (2.) SKRVICB OF PROCESS. 
In all cases where service may be made by publication, personal
service of a copy of the summons or order of injuuqtion and com­
plaint may be made out of the state. 
8EO. 67. (3.) OPENING DECHkE WHEN SERVICE MADB BY PUBLICATION. 
A party against whom a. perpetual injunction may be decreed
without other service than by publication in a. newspaper, may, at
any time within five years after the date of such decree, have the
same opened and be let in to defend in the same manner and on
the same terms as is prescribed in section seventy-five of the act
to which this is supplemental. 
SEC. GS. (4.) WHEY ACT TO UKE EFFECT. 
This act to take effect on its passage. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT SUPPLE:\IENTARY ro AN ACT ro ESTABLISH A CODE
OF CIVIL PROCEDURE, PASSED MARCH 11, 1853. 
[Passed, April 12, 1858. 55 0. L. 37.] 
SECTION 69. When notice of sale of property may be published in Ger­
man newspapers. 
iO. Who to advance printer's fee. 
71. When service by publication is proper, notice may be published in German newspaper. 
72. Fees of clerk.
73. How legal notice published. 
7 4. When act to take etl'ect. 
SEC. 69: (1.) WHE~ NOTICE OF SALE OF PROPERTY MAY BB PUBLISHED IN GER·
KAN NEWSPAPER. 
That in all cases in which real or personal property is to be sold
by virtue of any execution, decree or .order of any court of this
state, any one a party to the suit, and who has some interest in the 
property to be sold, may make a motion to the court before whom
the case is pending, asking that a notice of the sale be also pub­
lished in some German newspaper, and if it appear to the court
that such notice would be for the benefit of the parties interested,
the court shall order the sheriff, commissioner, or other officer mak­
ing such sale, to give notice thereof in some German newspaper,
if any be printed in the county in which such property is situated, 
and if more than one, in that which has the largest circulation
therein, in the same manner and for the same time that such no­
tices are now required by law to be made and published, but no
error or mistake, either in the contents of such notice or the time 
of its publication, shall delay the proceedings in court, or affect
the title to the property so sold. 
Bro. iO. (2.) Wno To ADVA:SCE PRDiTER's FEES. 
The officer required to give such notice may refuse to have the
same published unless the party, his agent or attorney, upon whose
motion the notice was ordered to be given, advance to such officer,
upon proper demand made 1" him for the same, sufficient money
to discharge the fees of the printer for publishing such notice. 
SEC. 71. (3.) -w:HEN SERVICE BY l'UBI,ICATION IS PROPER, ~OTICE MAY BE Pt;B·
LISHED IN GERMAN NEWSPAPER. 
In all cases in which, under the Code of Civil Procedure, service
on a defendant or on defendants can be made by publication, the
court is hereby authorized to adopt such a rule or rules as to re­
quire such notices to be published in some German newspaper, if
any be printed in the county, and if more than one, in that which
has the largest circulation therein. 
SEC. 72. ( 4.) FKES OF CLl:!:RK. t 
All costs accruing under this act shall be charged as other costs
in the case, and the clerk of the court and officer charged with giv­
ing such notices as are herein required, shall be entitled to the 
same fees as they are now for like services. 
SEC. 73. (5.) How LEGAL NOTICE PUBLIRHED. 
Nothing in this act shall be .so construed as to dispense with the
publication of any legal notice in manner now required by law to
be made. 
SEC. rs. (1.) 
That in addition to the advertisement, in all cases where legal
advertisements are now required by law to be published in some
newspaper, the several courts of this state may, when the judges
shall deem it proper, order that an abstract of such legal advertise­
ments be published in some one of the journals published in the
county, the fee for which shall be taxed in the case, as other costs:
Provided, however, that such fee shaII not exceed one dollar for
each case. 
a. See Swan's Rev. Stat. i14. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT IN ADDITION ro rns SEVIRAL ACTS IN RELATION TO
. THE COURTS OF JUSTICE AND 1'1IEIR POWERS AND DUTIES. 
[Passtd, April 10, 1856. 53 0. L. 178.] 
SEOTION 76. When collection of taxes may be enjoined-when to re 
cover taxes pa.id.
77. Parties to the action. 
78. Bond to be given.
79. Petition in error in nature of a bill of review.
80. Assistant prosecuting attorney. 
Slro. 76. (1.) WHEN OOLLECTIO!\ OF TAXES HAY BE ENJOINED-WHEN TAXES
PAID MAY BE RECOVERED. 
That the courts of common pleas shall have jurisdiction to en­
join the illegal assessment of taxes, and the collection of taxes
illegally assessed ; and of actions to recover back the amount of 
such taxes as may have been or shall hereafter be collected, with­
out regard to the amount thereof. 
SEC. Tl. (2.) PARTIER TO THE ACTION. 
Actions to enjoin the iIIegal assessment of taxes shall be brought
against the county auditor, and also against any municipal corpo­
ration for whose use or benefit the assessment may be made; 
where such assessment.may not go on to the county duplicate, the
actions shall be against the corporation making the same ; actions
to enjoin the collection of taxes shall be brought against the officer
having the collection thereof; and actions to recover back such
taxes, after the collection of the same, against the officer making
the collections; or, in \:ase of his death, against his personal rep­
resentatives; and where the taxes are not collected on the county
duplicate, the corporation making the assessment shall also be
made defendant; but no recovery shall be had unless the action
be brought within one. year after the taxes shell have been col­
lected. 
SEC. 78. (3.) BoND TO BE GIVEN. 
When an action shall be brought to enjoin the collection of taxes,
bond shall be given as in other cases ; if the plaintifff shall admit a
part of the taxes to have been legally assessed, he shall first pay or
tender the sum admitted to be legally due; and the injunction
shall be a. sufficient justification of the officer having the collection
of such taxes for not collecting the same . 
.. 
SEC. 79, (4.) PETITION IN ERROR IN THE NATURE OF A. BIL( OF REVIEW. 
A petition in error in the nature of a bill of review, may, on 
leave of the supreme court, or any judge thereof, be filed in 
the supreme court, to. reverse or modify any decree in chan­
cery, that heretofore has been or that hereafter shall be ren­
dered in a.ny district court in this state in which the title to real
estate is in controversy, or the amount in controversy is not less
than five hundred dollars, and the proceedings upon said petition
in error shall in all respects be governed by the act of the general
assembly of the state of Ohio, passed February 24, 1848, entitled
" an act to dispense with the necessity of copying the papers in
bills of review, and for other purposes," and the act of March 18,
1851, entitled" an act to amend the act directing the mode of pro­
ceeding in chancery:" Provided, however, that the provisions of
this section shall not extend to suits that shall have been com­
menced since the first day of July, A. D. 1853; and provided, also,
that said petition in error shall be filed within three years from the .
time of the rendition of said decree so sought to be reversed or
modified. 
~F.C. 85. (5.) .AssISTAXT PROSECUTIXG lTTORNEY •• 
Whenever, in the opinion of any judge of the court of common
pleas, the public interests shall require it, the said court shall ap­
point an assistant prosecuting attorney, to aid in the prosecution
of such offense as to the court shall seem Jlroper, and the county
commissioners shall pay for the services of such assistant prose­
cuting attorney, so rendered, such compensation as to them shall
seem just and proper, and shall be approved by the court. 
SEC. 81. (1.) 
That whenever any person claiming to have a cause of action or
a defense to an action commenced against him, is unable, without
a discovery of the fact from the adverse party, to 'file his petition
or answer, such person may bring his action for discovery, setting
forth in his petition the necessity of such discovery and the
grounds thereof, and such interrogatories relating to the subject
matter of the discovery as may be necessary to procure the discov­
ery sought, which, if not demurred to, shall be fully and directly
answered under oath by the defendant; upon the final disposition
of the action, the costs thereof shall be taxed in such manner as
the court shall deem equitable. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT TO AUTHORIZE COURTS TO GIVE EFFECT ro THE rn­ 
TENTION OF PARTIES AND OFFI(.,"'ERS BY CURING DEFECTS,
OMISSIONS AND ERRORS IN INSTRUME~"TS AND PROCEED­ 
INGS. 
ACTION FOR DISCOVERY. 
[Passed March 6, 1857. 54 0. L. ::!3.] 
[Pund Jlarc1,, 10, 1859. 56 0. L. 40.] 
SECTION 82. How defects, omissions and errors in instrumente cured.
83. Petition.-Notice.-Order. 
84. When proceedings to be bad by body corporate. 
85. When act to take el"eet. 
s.c. 82. (1.) How DBD0'1'8, OKIISIONS AND ERRORS IN I:NSTRUIIENTS CURBO. 
That in all eases wherein any officer or officers, party or parties,
person or persons, or body corporate, or persons intending and 
undertaking to become a body corporate, has heretofore made or 
may hereafter, by reason of. inadvertance or otherwise, make any
omission, defect or error in any instrument in writing, or in any
proceeding, whereby the same shall not be in strict conformity
with the laws of this state, it shall be competent for the courts of
this state, and they are hereby authorized to give full effect to all
such instruments and proceedings, according to the true and man­
ifest intention of the parties thereto. 
SEC. 83. (2.) PETITIOX-NOTICE-0RDER. 
That whenever any such error, omission or defect shall have oc­
curred, or may hereafter occur, in any instrument or proceeding
which is required to be made a matter of record, it shall be compe­
tent for any party or parties, person or persons, body corporate or
persons intending and undertaking to become a body corporate,
having or claiming an interest in the correction of such error,
omission or defect, to file his, her or their petition in any court of
common pleas having jurisdiction in the premises, setting forth 
particularly the error, defect or omission complained of, and ask an
order of such court for the correction thereof; and in all cases
where such application is made by any body corporate, or by per­
sons intending and undertaking to become a body corporate, such
court, upon being satisfied that notice of such application, specify­
.ing the error, defect or omission complained of, and of the time
and place of hearing the same, has been duly published for six con­
secutive weeks in some newspaper in general circulation in the
county where such application may be made, and in all other cases
whenever the party or parties interested have been duly brought
before the court in the manner prescribed by law for making ser­ 
vice in civil actions, and upon being satisfied that such mistake,
error or omission has been made, shall grant and make an order to
correct the same, which order shall be filed in the office in which
seeh record is required to be kept, and from and after such filing,
the said record and the order correcting the same shall be received 
as evidence in all cases, in all courts, the same as if no such error,
omission or defect had ever existed. 
SEC. 84. (3.) W HERB PROCKBDINGS TO BR IUD BY BODY COKPOBATE. 
That when the record to be corrected is in any way connected
with any body corporate, the proceedings mentioned in the last 
preceding section shall be had in the court of common pleas of the
county wherein the principal office of such corporation is located,
and in all .other cases the same shall be had in the county wherein 
such record is kept. , 
SEC. 8.3. (4.) WHEN ACT TO TAKE EFFECT. 
This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its pas­
sage. 
A~ ACT ~GPPLE}IE~'f ARY TO THE ACT E~TITLED "AN ACT 
DISPE~Sl~G WITH PUOOF I~ CERTAIN CA::;E~," PA8SED DE­
CE)lllER IR, 18:!3. 
SEC. 86. ( 1.) 
That it shall be competent for the court of justice, upon the
trial of any action wherein any claim or defense is founded on book
account, on proof of the death of the party in interest making the
original entries in such book of accounts, and that the entries are
in his handwriting, to admit said book of original entries as evi­
dence; and if the original entries in said book of accounts have
been made by a disinterested person, who, at the time of such trial,
is deceased, or a non-resident of the state, on proof of such de­
cease or non-residence, and that said entries arc in the handwriting
of such person, it shall be competent to admit said book of original
entries as evidence, the weight to be given to such evidence in
either case, however, being left to the jury or justice to deter­ 
mine. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT TO ENABLE BOTH PARTIES TO TE~TIF'Y IN SUITS
PENDING BEFORE 1.'HE TA KING EJ1'FECT OF 'l'HE CODE OF
CIVIL PROCEDURE, 1'0 WHICH CORPORATION'S ARE PARTIES. 
BF.C. 87. ( 1.) 
[Pamd March 12, IS53. 51 0. L. 3i4.] 
[Paased .April 8, 1858. 55 0. L. 39.) 
That in casee now pending in any of the courts of this state to
which a corporation is a party, which were pending when the Code
of Civil Procedure took effect, and in which the directors or stock­
holders of such corporation are competent as witnesses for said
corporation, the other party or parties to said suit shall also be 
competent to testify as witnesses for themselves, or when called
by any other party to the suit, any law, rule or practice heretofore
existing to the contrary notwithstanding. 
A:S ACT TO AME:m) THE ACT SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE ACT
ENTITLED "AN ACT TO POOVIDE FOR THE SETTLEMENT OF 
THE ESTATES OF DECEASBD PERSONS," PAS8ED MARCH 23,
1840. 
[Paased, .April 12, 1858. 55 0. L. 157.] 
SECTION 88. In petition to sell real estate, who shall be made defendants.
89. Court to settle equities and priorities of lien.
90. When act to take effect. 
SEC. 88. (1.) lN PETITION TO SELL REAL B8TATB1 WHO SHA.LL BE MA.DB DEFEND­
ANTS. 
That when any executor or administrator shall file a petition in
the probate court, or the court of common pleas, in any county in
this state, for authority to sell the real estate of the deceased, it
shall be the duty of such executor or administrator, in addition to
the persons named in section one hundred and twenty-four of the
act to which this is supplementary, to make all mortgagees of and 
other lien holders, whether by judgment or otherwise, on said real 
estate, and all trustees holding the legal title thereto, parties de­ 
fendant tt;i such petition, in the same manner as is now provided
by law for making parties defendant thereto. 
::;EC. 89. (2.) COURT TO SBTTI.E EQUITIES A~D PRIORITIES OF Ll!'i'E. 
The probate court and court of common pleas in which such pe­
tition may be filed, shall have full power to determine the equities
between the parties and the priorities of lien of the several lien
holders on said real estate, and to order a distribution of the
money arising from the sale of such real estate, according to the
respective equities and priorities of lien as found by the court. 
SEC. 91. (1.) WHEN USURY MAY BB PI.EAD WITHOUT TENDERING AMOUNT
LEGALLY DUE. 
That whenever usurious interest shall have been charged or
taken in this state, by any bank, whether incorporated by the laws
of this state or elsewhere, it shall be lawful for any party or par­
ties to an action brought upon any bond, bill, note or other in­
strument of writing in which such usurious interest shall have been
charged or included, at any time before or after judgment, to set
up and prove the taking or demand of such usurious interest,
without tendering to such bank the legal amount of debt and inter­
est due on such obligation. 
SEC. 92. (2.) WHEN JUDGMENT llAY BE BET ASIDE AND USURY PLEAD. 
That in all cases in which judgment shall have been heretofore
rendered in favor of such bank or banks, upon default, or upon a
warrant of attorney to confess judgment, it shall be the duty of
the court in which such judgment was rendered, at any time
before such judgment shall have been satisfied, upon affidavit
of any defendant against whom such judgment was rendered, set­
ting forth the facts constituting such usurious demand, to set aside
such judgment, and permit such defendant or defendants to file his
or their answer in said action, setting up such usurious demand,
without tendering to such bank the legal amount of debt and inter­ 
est due on the bond, bill, note or other obliggtion upon which said
action was founded. 
t,;EC, 93. (3.) EFFF..CT OF JUDO}(ENTS CONFESSED ON WARRANTS OF ATTORNEY
IN FAVOR OF BANKS. 
That all judgments by confession hereafter rendered in favor of
banks, or in favor of officers or a.gents of banks, on warrants of
attorney, shall be absolutely null and void. 
AK ACT FURTHER PRESCRIBING THE POWERS AND DUTIES OF
COUH'l'S OF THIS ST.A'IE, .A~D THE JCDGES 'IHEREOF. 
[Passed April 5, 1856. 53 0. L. 61.] 
SECTION 94. Entry of final orders of a. superior court on journal of infe­
rior court. 
95. Dismissal of action by plaintifff' in vacation. 
SEC. g4_ (1.) ENTRY OF FIN.AL ORDERS OF A SUPERIOR COURT ON JOURNAL OF IN·
FERIOR COURT. 
That whenever the supreme or district court shall render a final
order, decree or judgment, in any proceeding pending therein, and 
the same shall be remanded to an inferior court. for any purpose,
the clerk of such inferior court, when he shall receive such order,
decree or judgment, shall immediately enter the same on the
journal of such court, and when so entered, it shall have the same
force and effect, and the parties shall have the same rights, as if
it were entered on the journal at a regular term of such court. 
SEC. 95. (2.) Drssussxr. OF .\CTIOX BY I'I.AlXTIFF IX VACATIOX. 
The party plaintifff in any case pending in the 'court of common
pleas, the district or supreme court, shall, where no counterclaim
or setoff has been filed by the opposite party, have the right in
the vacation of any of said courts, to dismiss his said action with­
out prejudice, upon payment of costs; which said dismissal shall
be by the clerk of any of said courts, entered upon the journal,
and take effect from and after the date thereof. 
8Ec. 96. (1.) How JUDGllE:ST OF SUPERIOR COt"RT CARRIED INTO EFFECT. 
That it shall be lawful for the supreme court, by special man­
date or other proper mode, to require the district court or court of
common pleas of the county in which any suit determined in the
25upreme court shall have originated, to carry the judgment or de­
cree of the supreme court into execution; and the same shall
thereupon be carried into execution by such inferior court, by
process of execution or other lawful mode, as the case may
require. 
f:-EC. 97. (2.) REAL AXD PER!M)XAL PROPERTY LIADLE FOR JUDGMENTS. 
The lands and tenements of the debtor shall be bound for the
satisfaction of any judgment or decree for the payment of money
of the supreme court against such debtor, from the first day of the
term of said court, at which the judgment or decree shall be ren­
dered, in all cases where such lands or tenements lie within the
county where the suit originated, and all other lands and tene­ 
ments, as well as goods and chattels of the debtor, shall be bound
from the time they shall be seized in execution; Provided,
that in all cases where the party against whom r: judgment or de­
cree is rendered in the court of common pleas, appeals his cause
to the district court, and the same is thence removed to the
supreme court, the lien of the opposite party on the real estate of
said appellant, created by said judgment, shall not thereby be re­
moved or vacated, but the real estate of said appellant shall be
bound in the same manner as if said appeal had not been taken
until the final determination of the cause in the supreme court. 
SF.Ce 98. (I.) 
That it shall be the iuty of the sheriff of any county of this·
state, who may have collected the amount of any judgment and 
costs, or any part thereof, by virtue of an execution to him di­
rected, without any levy or sale of any real estate of the judg­
ment debtor having been necessary, to pay over the amount of the
judgment and interest thereon accrued, or such part thereof as
may have been collected, unto the judgment creditor, or his attor­
ney, upon a demand being made therefore at the office of the
sheriff, without any delay, and to make a return of such execu­
tion, if fully satisfied, within three days after the money shall
have been by him collected as aforesaid, without waiting until the
expiration of the return day of such execution. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT AUTHORIZING INCORPORATED COMPANIES TO CHANGE
THEIR NAMES. 
[Pas,ed January 12, 1853. 51 0. L. 293.J 
SECTION 99. Company may cha.nge name. 
100. Proceedings. 
101. Copy of order to be filed with secretary of state.
102. Effect of change. 
SEC. 99. (I.) CoXPANY HAY CHANGE NAllB. . 
That from and after the passage of this set, it shall be lawful
for any company now incorporated within this state, to change the
name of said company in manner and form as is provided for in this
act. 
SEC. 100. (2.) PROCEEDINGS. 
That upon petition being filed by the directors of any company
as aforesaid, in the court of common pleas of the county in which 
· the principal office of such corporation is located, and upon giving
thirty days' notice by publication in a newspaper of general circu- 
lation in said county, of the object and prayer of such petition,
said court shall, at any regular term after the publication of said
notice, upon good cause shown, decree the change of the name
sought for by said board of directors. 
SEC. 101. (3.) COPY OF ORDER TO BE FILED WITH SECRET.A.RY OF STATE. 
That in case the name of any company is changed, as afore­
said, a copy of the decree shall be filed with the secretary of state,
and also published in some newspaper of general circulation in the 
county aforesaid. 
SEC. 102. ( 4.) EFFECT OF OBA.NOE. 
That when the provisions aforesaid have been complied with,
such company shall thereafter be known by such new name, and
shall have all the powers, and be subject to the same restrictions
as if no change of name had been made, and no such change of
name shall affect, in any manner, the rights of such company, or
of any individual, or other corporation. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT AUTHORIZING SUITS UPON WRITTEN INSTRUMENTS TO
BE BROUGHT IN THE NAME BY WHICH THE SAME IS EXE­
CUTED, ~~D PRESCRIBING THE MODE IN WHICH SURETIES
OF EXECUTORS, ADMINISTRATORS OR GUARDIANS, MAY BE
)fADE PARTIES TO JUDGMENTS. 
[Passed March 12, 1853. 51 0. L. 397.] 
SECTION 103. Concerning suits brought on written instruments,
1-04. Sureties of executors made parties to judgment.
105. When act to take effect. 
SEC. 103. (1.) CONCERNING SUITS BROt;GHT ON WRITTE.'l INSTRt'lJENTS. 
That in all actions upon bills of exchange or promissory notes
or other written instruments, whenever any of the parties thereto
are designated by the initial letter, or letters, or some contraction
of the christian or first name or names, it shall be sufficient to
designate such person by the same initial letter or letters or con­
traction of the first name. or names, instead of stating the christian
or the first name or names in full. 
SEC. JO!. (2.) 8URBTIE9 OF EXECUTORS JO.DB PA.RTIES TO JUDGMENT. 
Th~t sureties to the bond of an executor, administrator or
guardians, may be made parties defendant to the judgments 
which may be rendered under an act entitled " An act for the
more speedy collection of debts from executors, administrators 
and guardians, in certain cases," passed March 18, 1851, in the
same manner as the sureties of sheriff's. 
8F.C. 105. (3.) WHEN AOT TO TAKE EFFECT. · 
This act shall take effect on the first day of July, eighteen hun­
dred and fifty-three. 
CHAPTER X AN ACT AUTHORIZING THE COURTS OF JUSTICE TO CHANGE THE
VEWE IN SUITS WHEREL~ A CORPORATIO~ IS A PARTY, IN
CERTAJN CASES. 
[ Passed April 24, 1852. 50 0. L. I 00.]
SEC. 106. (1.) VENUE HAY BE CHANGED JN CERTAIN CA.SES. 
That in any suit wherein a corporation, having more than fifty
stockholders, is a party, if the opposite party, plaintifff or defend­
ant, as the case may be, shall make affidavit that he can not have
a fair and impartial trial in the county in which such corporation
keeps its principal office, or transacts its principal business, as he
verily believes, and if his application shall be sustained by the sev­
eral affidavits to the same effect, of five credible persons, residing
in such county, it shall be the duty of the court to change the
venue to some adjoining county, most convenient for both parties;
whereupon the suit shall be tried or heard in the same manner as
if it had been originally commenced in such adjoining county. 

