“An act to regulate elections,” passed on the 9th day of
January, 1827; and “An act providing for the election of she
riffs and coroners in certain cases,” passed April 13th, 1803;
certain
acts re- and
and “An
the act
passedspecial
January
29th, 1827;
Jºaled.
actamendatory
to provide thereto,
for holding
elections,”
pas
sed December 27th, 1813; and the second, third, fourth, fifth
and sixth sections of an act, entitled “Anact to divide the State

of Ohio into congressional districts,” passed May twenty-third,
eighteen hundred and twenty-two; be, and the same are here
by, repealed: Provided, That said repeal shall not in any way
or manner affect any right which may have accrued under any
of said acts.

This act to take effect and be in force from and after the first

day of June next.
JAMES M. BELL,

Speaker of the House of Representatives.
SAMUEL R. MILLER,

Speaker of the Senate.

February 18th, 1831.
-AN ACT to organize the Judicial Courts.

Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Ohio, That the supreme court shall consist of ſour judges, who
*** shall have precedence according to the dates of their commis

... “" sions; but in case either of said judges shall be elected for two
or more terms in succession, then he shall take precedence ac
cording to the date of his commission for the first of said terms:

precedence of and when the commissions of two or more judges shall be of
judges.

who, hamle
chief judge,

the same date, they shall have precedence according to their
respective ages; and the judge entitled to the precedence over
all others, shall be styled chief judge of said court.

1........ ... Sec; ; That the supreme courtshall have original jurisdic
...'...tion of all offenses, the punishment whereof is capital; and ju,
risdiction concurrent with the courts of common pleas in all civil

&ºint.
"""

cases, both at law and in equity, where the cause or matter in

Appellate.

dispute exceeds one thousand dollars; and appellate jurisdiº

tion from the court of common pleas, in all civil cases in which
the court of common pleas has original jurisdiction.

Sec. 3. That the supreme court shall have power, on good
what writs su cause shown, to issue writs of habeas corpus cum causa, cer.
º tiorari, mandamus, prohibition, procedendo, error, supersedeas,
habeas corpus ne exeat, and all other writs not specially pro

vided for by statute, which may be necessary to enforce the
due administration of right and justice throughout the State,
and for the exercise of its jurisdiction, agreeably to the usages

wº, ºn... and principles of law; and either of the judges of the supreme
judge of court, in vacation, shall, on good cause shown, have power tº grant writs of error, supersedeas and certiorari, and also, to said court may

grant writs of habeas corpus, ſor the purpose of an inquiry into"
the cause of commitment.

Sec. 4. That the courts of common pleas shall consist of a Common pl

resident and three associate judges; and shall have original.”.
jurisdiction in all civil cases, both in law and equity, where the “” and three

sum or matter in dispute exceeds the jurisdiction of justices of jº, of
the peace; and appellate jurisdiction from the decisions of jus-ºmmon piers.

tices of the peace in their respective counties, in all civil cases:”
they shall have power to examine and to take the proof of Appellate
wills, grant letters testamentary thereon, and to grant letters
of administration on intestate's estates, and to hear and deter-Prºte:

mine all causes of probate and testamentary nature; to appoint
appoint
guardians for minors, idiots and lunatics, and to call such Shall
guardians, &c.
guardians to account: they shall have exclusive cognizance of

all crimes, offenses and misdemeanors, the punishment whereofcognizance of
is not capital; original and concurrent jurisdiction with the ºn.

supreme court of all crimes, offenses and misdemeanors, the É.
punishment whereof is capital; and shall have the same power
to issue remedial and other process, (writs of error and manda-what writ.com,

mus excepted) as the supreme court has; and the presidents of.” "
the courts of common pleas within their circuits, or any associate
judge of the court of common pleas, within his county, shall, Single judge may
on good cause shown, have power to allow writs of certiorari, allow certiornººty
directed to justices of the peace, to cause their proceedings to
be brought before such court, in order that right and justice
may be done.

Sec. 5. That the judges of the supreme court, and presidents judge, ºne
and associate judges of the courts of common pleas, before sworn.
they proceed to execute the duties of their respective offices,
shall each take an oath or affirmation to administer justice The oath.
without respect to persons, and to do equal right to the poor
and to the rich, and faithfully and impartially to discharge and
perform all the duties incumbent on him as a judge, according oathole inde,
to the best of his abilities and understanding, agreeably to the sed on commis
constitution and laws of this State; and have the same indor-"
sed on his commission.

Sec. 6. That the supreme court and courts of common pleas, Each court to
shall appoint clerks for their respective courts, in each county; anºmºk
and each of the said clerks shall, before he enters upon the ex-in each county,

ecution of his office, take an oath or affirmation that he will

truly and faithfully enter and record all the orders, decrees,'...""
judgments and proceedings of the said court, and faithfully and
impartially discharge and perform all the duties of his said of the oau,
fice according to the best of his abilities and understanding;
and the said clerks shall also severally give bond, with suffix clerks to give

cient sureties, (to be approved of by the supreme court and”
the court of common

pleas respectively) to the State of Ohio, . .

in the sum of ten thousand dollars, conditioned that he will truly."
and faithfully pay over all money that may be by him received in his official capacity, and that he will enter and record all the
orders, decrees, judgments and proceedings of said, court, and
faithfully and impartially discharge and perform all the duties
‘Bond to be lod of his said office; which bond shall be lodged with the county

i.” treasurer; and it shall be lawful for the several clerks within
clerks may take this State to take depositions and administer oaths in all mat

*** ters appertaining to the business of their respective offices.
Sec. 7. That each and every clerk of the respective courts,
ºrksºp, shall keep his office at the seat of justice in his proper county;.

.." and every clerk failing so to do, shall be deemed and taken to
have resigned the same: Provided, That the clerks of new
counties shall not be required so to keep his office, in less than
Except in cases six months after the courts shall have been held at the place

*** fixed for the permanent seat of justice; and in case a vacancy
A-ºut, mass, shall happen in the office of clerk during the vacation, the as
may appoint a sociate judges may appoint a clerk,
pro tempore.
JAMES
M. BELL,

ëlerk protein.

#.

the House of Representatives.
Speaker of
f SAM
ºft.

Speaker of the Senate.
February 7, 1831.

/4| AN ACT to regulate the practice of the Judicial Courts:
W

Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of

Ohio, That all writs and process issuing from the supreme t
wits and pro; court, shall bear test by the chief judge thereof; and all

willº)

*** and process issuing from the courts of common pleas, shall
To be under seal,

bear test by the president of said courts; which said writs

º

*"" and process shall be under the seal of the court from whence
t

they issue, and be signed by the clerk thereof: and all writs

*** ** and process shall run in the style of “The State of Ohio,
county, ss.”; and shall be dated of the day on
which the same may issue.
ºf ...".
Sec. 2. That the clerks of the several courts shall, on appli
Clerks to issue
cation of any person having a cause, or any matter, pending in
subpoenas
court, issue subpoenas for witnesses, inserting all the names re
who may serve disinterested
quired by theperson
applicant
one and
subpoena;
subpoena,
the same.
mayinserve
return:which
Provided,
Thatany
the
truth of such service and return, shall be verified by the oath

Y.” of the person making the same.
Sec. 3. That any person demanding a writ, shall file a pre
cipe with the clerk of the court, who shall thereupon make out

... and deliver such writ as may be required; and in all cases of
mesne process, he shall indorse thereon the cause of action,
cause of action, and the amount appearing to be due or sworn to, as the same
tº tele indor. to
may
be stated in the precipe or affidavit, to hold the deſendant
sºil on writ,
bail,

.5-3.

(a) - * weacázz
Sec. 4. That in all cases where the plaintifff is a non-resi
dent of the county in which the action may be brought, the Nonesident.

writ of summons, capias ad respondendum, or other mesne ...".
process, shall be indorsed prior to the delivery of the same to indorsed as sect
the proper officer, by some responsible freeholder resident in ****
the county; who, by such indorsement, shall be held and bound

for the payment of all the costs that may be adjudged against
the plaintifff, both in the court of common pleas and supreme
Court.
Sec. 5. That it shall be lawful, after final judgment render-judgment to he
ed in any such case, for the court, on motion of the defend- .
ant, his executors or administrators, or any other person having ...”
a right to such costs, or any part thereof, (such defendant or
other person having previously given ten days' notice of such Ten ...;

motion) to enter up judgment in the name of such defendant,. *...*
his executors or administrators, against such surety, his execu- Execution men,
tors or administrators, for the amount of costs adjudged againston, as in other

the plaintifff, or so much thereof as may be due and unpaid; on *
which judgment execution may be issued, for the use and bene
fit of the persons entitled to such costs, as in other cases.

Sec. 6. That the plaintifff shall be entitled to have special in what a.
bail in all actions brought on any covenant, bond, sealed bill, pianº mºnt,
promissory note, due bill, bill of exchange, or article of agree-...”
ment, for the payment of any sum of money certain, and in al
actions brought on other contracts, by which the sum due, or
damages sustained, shall appear to be uncertain, but which the
plaintifff, or his agent, shall swear, by affidavit, to be filed in the
cause, are not less than one hundred dollars; and the plaintifff
shall have special bail in all other cases in which the court, in
term time, or any judge thereof, in vacation, shall, from the
Particular circumstances, order such special bail to be given.
Sec. 7. That if two or more persons are bound, jointly or suits against

jointly and severally, by any bond or writing obligatory, billoſ. º:
exchange, promissory note, or other contract, and the persons so º, .."
bound shall reside in different counties, it shall be lawful for may tº º

the plaintifff, in any action to be brought on any such bond,"...
writing obligatory, bill of exchange, promissory note, or other ſigºrºdºna

contract, to file with the clerk of the court of the county in!.
which either of the persons so bound shall reside, and against or counties:

whom a writ of summons or capias ad respondendum shall.
have been directed, a precipe, directing that a summons or ca-turned as in oth
pias ad respondendum be issued to the sheriff or coroner of “*
the county or counties, in which such other person or persons,
so bound as aforesaid, may reside, or may be ſound, who shall
issue the said writ or writs as by said precipe shall be directed:
and the sheriff or other officer shall execute and return the

same, in the same manner, and under the same penalties, as if
the capias ad respondendum or summons had issued from the
clerk of the court of his county; and the coust to whom such
writ is returned, shall proceed in the same manner thereon, as if it had been returned by the sheriff of their own proper
county.

Sec. 8. That whenever any recognizance shall be returned
Recognizances to any court of common pleas, by a justice of the peace, or

º: * other officer authorized to take such recognizance, a memoran
in ticº, to be dum thereof shall be entered in the minute book of the court;
...
"...
nute hook,
and whereupon the same shall be considered as of record in such
proceeded on as court, and proceeded on by process issuing out of said court,
ºnal
insaid in the same manner as if such recognizance had been entered
court.
into before such court: and the same recognizance shall be
made out, and recorded in full, in the book of records of said
court, in the same manner as recognizances taken in such court.
Sec. 9. That special bail shall be filed on the return day of
special
iaishan
be
put
the
capias ad respondendum, or on the succeeding day.
in.
Sec. 10. That if special bail be not put in and perfected in
when

rrno put in how due time, the plaintifff may proceed on the bail bond, or rule 
proceed.

theSec.
sheriff
to bring in the body of the defendant.
11. That if upon capias ad respondendum, the sheriff, or

rule amº, e, ºther officer, return, “I have taken the body,” or, “I have taken
•cuting a capias, the bodies,” (as the case may be,) and shall not return bail, and

...
rail he insa-ffi. a copy of the bail bond; or if the bail taken by such sheriff or

ºirm, he may he officer, shall, in the opinion of the court, be insufficient; or the
.."...
shall ſail to appear and give special bail within the
the body; and on defendant
,.
ºur may iſ time above specified: the court, on motion, shall rule such
4narced.
sheriff or officer to bring in the body of the defendant, within

the term; and if he ſail so to do, the sheriff or other officer

shall be amerced by the court, in any sum not exceeding the
plaintifff's debt or demand. with costs: which amercement shall
-have the same force and effect as a judgment: Provided, never
theless, If such sheriff or other officer shall cause special bail to

:.."...." same
be putterm,
in, and
justified, if justification be required, during the
he shall be excused from bringing in the body, and
bail.

no amercement shall be entered against him on the said rule.

Sec. 12. That if any sheriff, when ruled so to do, shall bring
Defendant

in the body of the defendant. such defendant shall be commit.

... , ted; and upon entry of such committitur, the plaintifff may
tº commu.a. proceed in the action, and declare against the deſendant as in

sherif" on rule, to
custody.

sºarsman, . Sec. 3. That the sheriff, in order to save himself, may put
ball may put in in special bail for the defendant, without his consent; and the

.." bail of such sheriff may do the same, for their indemnity.
defendant.

Sec. 14. That if special bail be entered during the first or

. second days of the term to which process is returnable, excep
.." ""tion shall be taken, and entered thereto in the clerk's docket.
during the said term, of which exception a written notice shall

N.'ſ . be served on the defendant, or his attorney of record; and, in
"""" such case, the defendant shall procure his bail to justiſy, in
in ºut, eight days exclusive, aſter such exception and notice as aſore
imismanjustify, said, or add other bail. who shall justify within said eight days:
and when bail is filed on the first or second day of the term, an

exception entered after the expiration of the said term, shall
be of no validity.

Sec. 15. That two days' notice of the time of justification Two day, notice
of bail, or of putting in new or additional bail and justification ºf the justiºn

thereof, shall be given by the defendant or his attorney, to the ...
plaintifff or his attorney, exclusive of the day it is given; and if given.
Sunday intervene, three days' notice shall be given.
Sec. 16. That if the bail do not justify at the time appoint-Bannot justify.

ed, they shall be considered out of court; and when they do...".
justify, and are allowed, an order of such allowance shall be:...
drawn, and a copy thereof served on the plaintifff or his attor-tºplaintifff.
be ºved on
y.

Sec. 17. That the recognizance of special bail shall be to the
effect following:

} !

Form of recogni
zance of specht

A. B.
Ws.

łłaid.

In debt or case, [as the case may be.]

Be it remembered. That on the County, to wit:
day of

*

in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
, G. H. and E. F., of the county of
*
personally appeared before J. K., one of the judges of the su
preme court of the State of Ohio, or one of the judges of the
court of common pleas, in and for the county of
, or
clerk of the supreme court of the State of Ohio, or clerk of
the court of common pleas, in and for the county of, (as the case
may be), and severally acknowledge themselves to owe unto A.
B. the sum of
(double the sum indorsed on the writ.)
to be levied on their several goods and chattels, lands, tene

ments and estates; upon condition that if the defendant, C. D.,
shall be condemned in this action, at the suit of A. B., the

plaintifff, he shall pay the costs and condemnation of the court,
or be rendered, or render himself, into the custody of the she
riff of said county, for the same; or, in case of failure, that the

said G. H. and E. F. will pay the costs and condemnation for
him.

Taken and acknowledged, the day and year above written,
before me, J. K.

And that on acknowledging the aforesaid recognizance, the
bail piece shall be to the effect following, to wit:

STATE OF OHIO: Supreme court (or court of common
day of
, in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
, C. D. ººº
of the county of
, is delivered to bail on a cepi cor-" "
pleas.) of the

pus, unto G. H. and E. F. of the said county, at the suit of A.

B., in a plea of debt or trespass, on the case, [as the case may
be.]

Attest:
S. W., Clerk.
Sec. 18. That in actions which are. or shall he instituted in the supreme court of this State, special bail may justify by afli
Hºw pºtai davit in said court, or before one of the judges or clerks thereof,
either in term time or in vacation; and such affidavit shall set
forth, that the bail is a resident of the county, and that he is

worth so much, (mentioning the sum he is bail for,) after all his
debts are paid.
Sec. 19. That in actions which are, or shall be instituted in
arow speciallan any of the courts of common pleas in this State, special bail
may justify in may justify by affidavit in the said court, or before one of the

** judges or clerks thereof, in term time or in vacation; which
affidavit shall set forth, that the bail is resident of the county,
and that he is worth so much, (mentioning the sum he is bail
for,) after all his debts are paid.

ir-ul-ul-, * * That if special bail be not put in, and perfected in
..º.º. due time, the plaintifff, if he be satisfied with the bail taken by

"..., the sheriff or other officer, may take an assignment of the bail
tail bond.

bond, in the words or to the effect following: I, the within
named O. P. do hereby assign and set over the within bond, to

*:::: ** the within named A.
º

Its effect.

B. plaintifff. Witness my hand and seal,
in the year of our Lord one thou
sand eight hundred and
Signed, sealed and delivered, in the presence of E. F. and
G. H. O. P. (Seal.) And this shall be deemed a sufficient
assignment in law, to sustain an action on such bail bond, in the
the

day of

name of the assignee.

Sec. 21. That whenever any person shall be imprisoned on
j" mesne process, and remain in prison, and shall not be charged
Person imprisonºn in execution within ten days after judgment rendered against
“

rººms, on

him, he shall be discharged.

Sec. 22. That the proceedings on the bail bond may be set

bond, when set that
aside,a if
irregular
stayed;
if regular,
upon terms, in order
trial
may be or
had
in the original
action.

aside.

in...….

Sec. 23. That when the plaintifff in the original action has

...'..." not lost a trial, for want of special bail being filed in due time,
tº..." the court or judge may stay the proceedings on the bail bond,
stayed. .
upon putting in and perfecting special bail, paying the costs
incurred by the assignment and prosecution of the bail bond,
receiving a declaration in the original action, pleading issu
ably, and taking short notice of trial.
Conditions on
Sec. 24. That when the plaintifff has lost a trial in the origi

... nal action, for want of special bail being filed in due time, it
...'...'... shall be the duty of the court, before the proceedings be stayed
ºn lºst or on the bail bond, further to require that the bail consent that

**** judgment be entered against them, on the bail bond, for the
plaintifff's security; and in such case, if the deſendant ſail in
the original action, the bail shall be liable to immediate execu
tion, and shall not discharge him or themselves by a render of
the principal.
**
Sec. 25. That after the expiration of the term in which the plaintifff might have had judgment, in the original action, if bail.
ad been filed in due time, the proceedings shall not be stayed ...; º
on the bail bond without consent of the plaintifff.
tiff.

Sec. 26. That whenever the defendant neglects putting in what notice is
special bail in due time, by which the bail bond becomes for-lºsiven of int.
feited, the notice, in case the party means to put in special bail, ... ºr.

in order to stay proceedings on the bail bond, shall be, that he ºr
will put in and perfect special bail in open court, on such a ****
day, (specifying the day;) and in that case the plaintifff may
oppose the bail in court, without its being a waver of the bail
bond.

Sec. 27. That every court and judge shall take the fact to Amdavit to hold
be
true as
sworn
the affidavit, to hold the party to bail, to
bail to be ta.
without
going
intototheinmerits.
ken as true.

See. 28. That on the return of the capias ad respondendum, or ºn,
the defendant may appear in court, and render himself in dis- ...*
charge of his appearance bail; and upon such render, the ap-ºne him:
pearance bail shall be discharged: and in such case, if the de- :::::::::::
fendant do not immediately put in and justify special bail, he ance laii, and if

shall be committed, and upon the entry of such committitur, the . .".
plaintifff may proceed in the action, and declare against him be committed.
as in custody.

Sec. 29. That subsequent to the return of the capias ad res-peºndant may
pondendum, the defendant may render himself or be rendered render himselfin

in discharge of his special bail, either before or after judgment: ...."
Provided, That such render be made at or before the appear- any time before

ance day of the first scire facias against the bail, returned “scire ...,
feci,” or of the second scire facias returned “nibil,” or of the ca-againstsuch tºº.

pias ad respondendum, or summons in an action of debt against
the bail on his recognizance, returned, served, and not after;
but in either case the bail shall pay the costs of the said suit,
and judgment for the same shall be rendered against him ac
cordingly: Provided always, That in either of the above writs
against the bail on his recognizance, there shall be at least fif
teen days between the service and the return thereof.
Sec. 30. That the court or judge before whom the render Entry of thern

is made, shall make an entry or minute of such render and ..."

commitment; and thereupon the defendant shall be committed..."
to the custody of the sheriff or jailor, attending the said court
or judge.

§. 31. That on such render or commitment duly certifi- on wommitment.
ed
to the
clerkclerk
of thetocourt,
in vacation,
it shall
the ...".
lººk."...ºntº
duty
of such
enterifandone
exonerater
on the
bail be
piece,
rººm

and thereupon the bail shall be discharged: Provided, The said
bail give immediate notice of such render to the plaintifff or his
attorney, if within the county.
Sec. 32. That in all personal actions, in which any defend- Plaintiſt

to fur

ant shall either before, or aſter appearance, and before final...
judgment, be committed to prison, the plaintifff shall proceed
ºn
..
ed.,
in ºptiºn.
to file his declaration or other pleading, within the same time º º:
 he would be required to do if the defendant were out on baii,

wommander.” " furnish the defendant with a copy thereof; and if he
dant with copy. fail to do so, he shall be non-prossed: and such defendant

shall also file his plea or other pleading, within the time he
... would be required to do if he were out on bait; and if he fails
bail.
so to do, the plaintifff shall be eutitled to judgment by default,
plead as if out on

as in other cases.
Sec. 33. That no sheriff shall be liable to be called upon to

º: produce the body of any defendant, on a capias ad responden:
te, second term dum, returned, “I have taken the body;” unless he be required
so to do before the expiration of the second term after the re
turn of such capias.

Sec. 34. That after a capias ad satisfaciendum shall have
when plaintifff been returned, “Not found,” by the sheriff, the plaintifff may

...“...a nizance;
proceed against
the special bail upon his, her or their recog.
and in all cases in which judgment shall be rendered,
bail.

in any court of common pleas, or in the supreme court, in any
county in this State, and the person or persons against whom
such judgment or decree is, or shall be rendered, shall remove
into, or be residing in, any other county, or shall have property
Execution on a in any other county, it shall be lawful for the party in whose fa

º," " vor such judgment or decree is, or shall be rendered, to sue out
...ied", any of the office of the clerk of the court rendering such judg

º, in “ment or decree, the same process of execution, directed to the

state.

proper officer of such other county, as he might or could sue
to be executed out against parties living in the same county; and process issued,
* *ned to shall be executed and returned to the office from whence it
the office whence
!ssued.


may issue: and if the officer to whom such process may be di
rected and delivered, shall neglect or refuse to execute and re

turn the same according to the command thereof, or pay over
any money made thereon, it shall be the duty of the court from
Cºmmºn.
which such
process
on motion
purpose,
te
ced.
amerce
the said
officerissued,
in the same
mannerforasthat
though
he were
an officer of their own proper county; on which amercement
process of execution may be taken out, as in other cases.
Sec. 35. That if at any time before or after judgment be
when error a rendered against special bail, a writ of error is taken out and
ro

r neglect, offi... allowed, on the judgment against the principal in the suit in

suit, proceedings

against had may stay
which
their recognizance
was bail
taken,
court may,
on on
motion,
he stayed.
proceedings
against such
for athe
reasonable
time,
their
paying all costs that may have accrued on the proceedings
against them; and if, on such writ of error, the judgment
It judgment
against the principal in the suit in which the said bail are bound,
...nº shall be finally reversed, so that the said principal be thereby

tº ºverº, all discharged from said suit, then, and in that case, the bail shall
"*"
be discharged from their recognizance.
rº... ºn . Sºº. 36. That it shall be lawful for the plaintifff, after a writ
...,tn shall h. ve been returned, “served” on any one or more of the
prosºy
be defendants, to file his declaration against such defendant or
led


"..."monº, defendants; suggesting therein the return made on such writ,

as to such defendant or defendants, as have not been served with served.

the same, and shall proceed therein to final judgment against
the defendant so served as in other cases.

Sec. 37. That the plaintifff may, by a writ of scire facias, penna, º,
after obtaining judgment as aforesaid, cause any defendant or ... in .
defendants, on whom the original writ in said cause had not º'º.
been served to be made parties to said Judgment, unless he or º: ºt.
they show good cause why judgment should not be rendered ºn y

against them; which scire facias shall be directed to the sher-" "
iff of the county where such defendant or defendants reside,
and shall be returned “served,” before such defendant or de
fendants shall be made a party to such judgment; and the de

fendants made a party to said judgment as last aforesaid, shall
be subject to the same process on said judgment, . they
would have been liable to, had they been served with the ori
ginal process in said suit.

Sec. 38. That when any person or persons shall appear with-In he manner
out process in any court of common pleas, or supreme court, persºn haºle
and confess judgment in favor of any person, on any bond, bill, *::::::::::
note, or other contract, wherein any other person or persons, ments contessed

shall be jointly, or jointly and severally, liable with the per-...
son or persons confessing such judgment; or where any appeal on appeals

shall be taken to the court of common pleas, from the judgment.'...' "
of any justice of the peace, rendered on any such bond, bill,
note, or other contract, and judgment shall be rendered for the
plaintifff, by the court of common pleas in the cause so appeal
ed; the person in whose favor any such judgment shall have
been rendered in either of the causes aforesaid, may, by writ or

writs of scire facias, cause any person or persons, jointly, or
jointly and severally, liable as aforesaid, to be made parties to

said judgment, in the same manner as is provided in the pre
ceding section of this act; and the person or persons made par
ties as aſoresaid, shall be liable to the same process of execu
tion as is provided for in said section.

Sec. 39. That when any writ of habeas corpus cum causa, on allowance of
shall be allowed for removing a cause from the court of common.”
cum causa, bond
pleas, into the supreme court, the clerk of the supreme court ji ".
shall take bond and security from the party applying for such and, ºn...


writ, as if such case was removed by writ of error; and shall.”"
also make out and sign a citation to the adverse party, which
shall be served on him in the same manner, and within the same

time, as required on a writ of error: Provided, That no cause
!,
in which the matter in dispute does not amount to one thousand proviso as to al.
dollars, shall be removed by the writ aforesaid, without aspeciallowance ºf writ.
allowance from one of the judges of the supreme court, which

granted unless on good cause shown.
Sec. 40. That the clerk of the court of common pleas, shall,ranscript of re

shall not be


return with the writ of habeas corpus cum causa, a transcript...","... .
of the record of such court in said cause; and the supreme turned with the

court shall proceed thereon in the same manner, as if such” suit had been commenced, and such proceedings had there.
1I].

nº an ºr * * That in all actions in any court of record, upon
... any bond or other contract in writing, for the recovery of any
tiff may assign forfeiture or penalty, for the non-performance of any contract

...
or
other agreement
in any
such bond,
or contract
in
fit.
writing,
the plaintifffcontained
may assign
as many
breaches
as he shall
see fit and proper; and the jury, in case they find a verdict in
Damage, to be favor of the plaintifff in any such action, shall assess damages
assessed by jury for such of the breaches so assigned as the plaintifff, upon the
trial of the issue, shall prove, and the court shall thereupon give
judgment for the full amount of the aforesaid penalty, and shall
award execution thereon, for the amount of damages so by the
jury assessed, with costs: and if Judgment shall be given

- cond to ºngº, for the plaintifff on demurrer, or by default or confession, the
judgment for

court before whom the action is brought, shall render judg

P.",..., ment as aforesaid for the penalty, and award execution for

award execution

ºne damage, so much as shall be then due according to equity; and when
*...* ºn the sum for which execution should be awarded is uncertain,
default or confesjºin the same shall, upon the application of either party, be assess
due in equity.

ed

by a jury.

Sec. 42. That in any action brought on bond, article of
In actions on agreement, or other contract in writing, which has a condition

.."...º.º. or defeasance to make void the same, on the payment of a less
ºne mayº." sum than the penalty that may be therein mentioned, at a day
tº: and place certain; if the obligor or contractor, or his heirs,
..".”... executors or administrators, have paid to the obligee or con
complied with tractee, or his executor or administrators, the principal and in
terest due by the condition or defeasance of such bond, article

of agreement, or other contract, though such payment was not
made strictly according to the condition or defeasance, yet it

* i.e. . .

.

may be pleaded in bar, and shall be as effectual as if the money
had been paid at the day and place, according to the condition
or defeasance, and had been so pleaded.
Sec. 43. That when judgment by default, confession or de

...'..."murrer, as mentioned in the preceding section, shall be given for
confession in

the plaintifff in such action, he may assign as many breaches of

º º, the covenants, agreements or conditions, aforesaid, as he shall
into court tie think fit; and if the defendant, after such judgment entered,

..".; and before execution executed, shall pay into the court where
ºcution hail the action is or shall be brought, to the use of the plaintifff, or
his executors or administrators, such damages as the court or
jury shall assess, as herein before provided, by reason of all or
any of the breaches of such covenants, agreements or condi
tions, together with costs of suit, a stay of execution of the
judgment shall be entered on record.

he stayed.

on museum, Sec. 44. That if by reason of any execution executed, the
ºf the damages plaintifff, or his executors or administrators, shall be fully paid

*...*.*.*.* or fitisfied, all such damages so assessed, with costs of suit, and

action, body and

property or dº the legal charges for executing the said executions, the body, lands, goods and chattels, of said defendant, shall be thereupon
forthwith discharged from the said execution; which shall like

wise be entered on record: but in every case the said judg
ment shall, notwithstanding, remain as a security to the plain-..."
tiff, his executors and administrators, for any other breaches:"º".

which may afterwards happen of such covenant, agreements or...".
conditions; upon which the plaintifff, or his executors or admin- "...”
istrators, may have a scire facias against the defendant, his ºr ºs may

heirs, devisees, executors or administrators, assigning other"."
breaches, to summon him or them, respectively, to show cause

why execution should not be had or awarded on the said judg-i...".
ment; and thereupon, damages shall be assessed as aforesaid, ... .".
and execution issue accordingly: and upon payment or satis-“diºs again

faction, in manner aforesaid, of such future damages, costs and”
charges, as aforesaid, all further proccedings on the said judg
ment shall be stayed; and so on, as often as the same may hap
pen: and the defendant, his body, land, goods and chattels,
shall be discharged from the said execution, in manner afore
said.

Sec. 45. That if at any time, pending an action on any

bond, bill, note or specialty, for the payment of a sum certain, ...
the defendant shall bring into court where the action shall be ant may bring

pending, the principal and interest due on such bill, bond, note...
or specialty, and all such costs as have accrued in any suit orºs, andbear.
suits in law or equity, upon the said bond, the said money so".
brought in, shall be deemed and taken to be in full payment and
satisfaction of such bond; and the court shall give iudgment to

discharge the defendant from the same, accordingly.
Sec. 46. That if in any other suit pending in either of the in any action,
courts, the defendant shall at any time bring into court, and º,”,
deposit with the clerk, for the use of the plaintifff, the amount omiting mont

that he admits to be due, together with all costs that have... .
then accrued, and the plaintifff shall refuse to accept the same. "...ºf

in discharge of his suit, and shall not afterwards recover a ...",".
larger sum than the sum so brought into court, exclusive of... "
costs, he shall pay all costs that may accrue from and after the
time such money was so brought in and deposited as aforesaid.

Sec. 47. That it shall be lawful for the plaintifff in replevin, rumºr in nº
or for the defendant or tenant, in every other action, to plead pievin and ic.

in any court of record, with leave of such court, as many ... ."
several matters as he shall think necessary for his defense; but plead º
if, on demurrer, any such matter be adjudged insufficient, *.
costs shall thereupon be awarded by the court.

Sec. 48. That it shall be lawful for the defendant in any sººn man.
action, to plead the general issue, and give any special matter may be given in

/in evidence, which, if pleaded, would be a bar to such ac-..."
.
general
issue


tion; giving notice with the same plea, of the matter or mat-winnotice."
ters, so intended to be given in evidence.
Sec. 49. That no plea in abatement, other than a plea to plea in anate.

the jurisdiction of the court, or when the truth of such plea ap-ment not admit. pears of record, shall be admitted or received, unless the party

... offering the same file an affidavit of the truth thereof; and where
a plea in abatement shall be judged insufficient, the plaintifff
shall recover full costs to the time of over-ruling such plea.
Sec. 50. That when any one or more of the partners of a

... company or association of individuals shall be sued, and the
der of partners, person or persons so sued, shall plead in abatement that all the

*, ... partners are not joined in the writ, such suit, for that cause,
ºr not shall not abate; but the plaintifff or plaintifffs may forthwith sue
*...* out a summons against the other partners named in the plea,
ºne annot tº and proceed in all respects thereafter, as though such other

ºt. º partners had been included in the original suit; and if such part.
ners named in said plea, cannot be found, the plaintifff or plain.
tiffs, upon the return of said summons, may suggest in his decla
ration the names of those not ſound, and proceed as in other
cases where service is only made on part of the defendants; and
no other plea, in abatement for non-joinder of parties, shall be

cd against.

allowed in the cause.

when specialde. Sec. 51. That in all cases where a special demurrer shall
!...". be over-ruled, costs may be taxed and allowed the opposite
party, to the time of over-ruling said demurrer.
Sec. 52. That where several persons shall be named de
Wº...!,
are
defendants in .ſendants in actions of trespass, for an assault and battery, false
j imprisonment, or in ejectment, and, upon the trial thereofany


"...one or more of them shall be acquitted by verdict; every de:
costs.

fendant so acquitted, shall have and recover his costs of suit, in

like manner as iſ verdict had been given against the plaintifff

generally: and in all cases where judgment shall be given for
the deſendant, he shall recover his costs against the plaintifff,
and have execution for the same.

Sec. 53. That in all actions of trespass quare clausum ſregit,
in actions quare hereafter to be brought, wherein the defendant shall disclaim,

... "... in his plea, to make any title or claim to the land in which the
disclaim, and trespass is supposed to be done by the declaration, and the

F.'...'... trespass be by negligence, or involuntary; the defendant shall
voluntary, and be admitted to plead a disclaimer, and that the trespass was

.." by negligence, or involuntary, and a tender or offer, of sufficient
brºught, and amends, for such trespass, before the action brought: where:
P." for
uponthethe
plaintifffjudgment
shall joinshall
issue;
if such
issue the
be found
join issue.
defendant,
he and
rendered
against
plain.
tiff ſor costs, and he shall be forever barred from all other suits
concerning the same trespass.

Sec. 54. That no plaintifff shall proceed, in ejectment, to

In ejectment ten

...'..."recover any lands or tenements against a casual ejector, with
given tenant,

out ten days’ previous notice being given to the tenant in pos.

session, (if any there be); and it shall be lawful for the court,
A.
on application for that purpose, to make the tenant or land'ord,
'laining title
.."...inje or both, or any other person claiming title to the premises, de


ſendant, in the place of the casual ejector and in all actions of
i. ejectment, the plaintifff shall have the same benefit and advan:

fendant.

Same "enefitage from a joint demise, that he could from several demi-from several de

ses; and separate demises shall only be laid in the names of"
tenants in common.

Sec. 55. That the plaintifff on affidavit of the delivery of the judgment.
declaration in ejectment, shall have judgment against the ca-gainst casual

sual ejector, unless the tenant in possession, or landlord, or..." . .
other proper person, shall apply to be made defendant, and be made defea
enter into the common consent rule, within the term, to which *
the said tenant had notice to appear.
Sec. 56. That in ejectment, where the lessor of the plaintifff iflessorofolain.
is unknown to the defendant, the latter may call ſor an account ºr le unknown

of his residence or place of abode, from the opposite attorney;...".
and if he refuse to give it, or gives a fictitious account of a curity for costs

person who cannot be found; or if the lessor of the plaintifff” “ ”
shall not reside, or is not a freeholder, within the county where

such suit is brought, the court, on motion before issue joined,
shall order security for costs to be given.
Sec. 57. That in ejectment, when the lessor of the plaintifff soiriessee reside
resides
of the
or may
is anstay
infant
or dead, the
court,
on º of infant,
the state,
motion out
before
issueState,
joined,
proceedings,
until
a real'..."
or
and substantial person, resident of the county, be named, or
security be given for the payment of costs.

Sec. 58. That if any action formesne profits shall be brought...
in the name of the nominal plaintifff in ejectment, the court, on º:
motion before issue joined, may stay proceedings until security minal plaintifff.
be given for the payment of costs.
Sec. 59. That if an infant be entitled to any action, his Infants may sue
guardian or next friend, shall be admitted to prosecute for him; id:

by

and if he be sued, a guardian shall be appointed to defend th.” “.
suit for him: but in no case shall the parole demur, or the pro- But parole shall

ceedings be deferred or stayed, till the infant arrives at full age,"*.
neither at common law nor in chancery.

Sec. 80. That every attorney who shall confess judgment in Auomº, cont.
any case, shall, at the time of making such confession, produce sing, judgment,

his warrant for making the same to the court before whom he "...,
makes the confession, if required so to do; and a copy of the copy of warrant
said warrant shall then be filed with the clerk of the court in to be filed.

which the judgment shall be entered: and no warrant of at
torney for confessing a judgment, executed by any person in wº
custody upon mesne process in a civil action, to the plaintifff at custody not
whose suit he is in custody, shall be of any force, unless some "" &tº
attorney, on behalf of such person in custody, and expressly
named by him, be present and sign the said warrant of attorney
as a witness.

Sec. 61. That if any informer on a penal statute, to whom Informer discon.
the penalty, or any part thereof, if recovered, is directed to tinuing suit, or
accrue, shall discontinue his suit or prosecution, or shall be."..."
pay costs, unless
non-suited in the same, or, if upon trial, judgment shall be ren- his duty to sue.
dered in favor of the defendant, such informer shall pay all

costs accruing on such suit or prosecution, unless such informer
be an officer whose duty it is to commence such suit or prose
cution.

Sec. 62. That in all actions for libel, slander, malicious pro
In certain at secution, assault, or assault and battery, action on the case for
... "...a nuisance, or against justices of the peace for misconduct in
mºnºionº, office; if the jury, on the trial of the issue, or on inquiry of da

.* mages, shall find or assess the damages under five dollars, the
plaintifff shall not recover any costs.
Sec. 63. That if, in any suit or action in the court of com

º:... mon, pleas, it shall so happen that there is not a sufficient
mººd, my number of disinterested judges of such court, to sit on the trial
... . of any particular cause then and there pending, it shall be the
intº "an ºduty of such court, on the application of either party, to cause
tity the cause to the fact to be entered on the minutes of the court, and also to

"* “order an authenticated copy thereof, with all the proceedings
in such suit or action, to be forthwith certified to the next

supreme court of the county; which supreme court shall there.
upon take cognizance thereof, in like manner as if it had been
originally commenced in that court, and shall proceed to hear
and determine the same accordingly.
t
Sec. 64. That no suit or action pending in any court, excep

º: tº thosementioned in the sixty-second section ... abate
death of parties by the death of either or both of the parties thereto; but the
cause of action shall survive, and the executor or administrator

of such deceased party, whether plaintifff or defendant, shall
have a right to prosecute or defend any such suit or action,

unto final judgment and execution: and every executor or ad;

.."...ministrator of any such deceased defendant, is hereby required
and defend

and obliged to become a party to said suit or action, and to
defend the same accordingly.
Sec. 65.

That the court before whom such suit or action

..".” may be pending and undetermined, is hereby authorized and
jº my "re required to hear, try and determine the same, and to render
quire.
judgment for, or against the executor or administrator of any
such deceased party, according to the justice of the case.
Sec. 66. That if the executor or administrator of the de

: $º ceased plaintifff or defendant, shall neglect or refuse to apply to
come a party to the court, when such suit or action may be pending, at or during

.."*" the session thereof, next succeeding the death of such party, the
court shall, at the same term, order the death of such party to
be suggested on the record, and a citation to issue, returnable
to the next term thereafter; whereby the said executor or ad
ministrator of such deceased party, shall be cited to appear at
the return term of the said citation, and cause himself to be

made a party to said suit or action, instead of his testator or
Executor of

intestate.
Sec. 67. That if the executor or administrator of such de

plainti'ſ, etc. ei ceased plaintifff, shall neglect or refuse, after having been duly

..". ... served with such citation, to become a party to the said action.


the court shall thereupon render judgment of non-suit against." "
the said executor or administrator as such, for costs of suit.

Sec. 68. That if the executor or administrator of such de-Executor, etc. ºf
ceased defendant, shall, after having been duly served with *:::::::::
such citation, neglect or refuse to appear and become a party bºom: º,
to the suit or action, the court shall cause the appearance of..."
sha"
roceed.
such executor or administrator to be entered; and the cause"

shall thereafter be proceeded in, and tried in the same manner,
and such judgment be rendered therein, as if such suit or action
had been originally brought against such executor or adminis
trator.

Sec. 69. That if in any such suit or action, there be two or..." ...;
more plaintifffs or defendants, and one or more of such plain-."...."
tiffs or defendants shall die before final judgment, such suit or and ºne lies.”

action shall not thereby abate, but the cause of action shall...".”.
survive to the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, and against the
surviving defendant or defendants; and such death being sug
gested on the record, the suit or action shall proceed in the
same manner, as if such death had not happened.
70. That
after
judgment,
surviving
Executors defen
etc. of
or Sec.
plaintifffs,
may, by
writfinal
or writs
of scirethe
facias,
cause plaintifff
the ex- :
y be

l

ecutor or administrator of any such deceased defendant or de-made ºily to

ſendants, to be made parties to said judgment; which scire fa-..."
cias shall be served and returned in the same manner that a

* is, or may be, required to be

served and returned by

W.

Sec. 71. That any judgment obtained or rendered under against
such..judgment
an exe
the preceding sections, against the executor or administrator...".
of any such deceased party, shall be considered as standing in ſoºting with

the same situation as any other allowed or liquidated demand;..."
and shall be paid by such executor or administrator at such
times, and in such proportion, as other just demands against
the estate of such testator or intestate.

Sec. 72. That no action of ejectment, or for waste, pending, an or cº
in the court of common pleas, or supreme court, shall abate by men, or waste

the death of the defendant before final judgment; but the cause ...".
of action shall survive against the heir or devisee of any such ºn, but nºir,
deceased
defendant:
andsuch
suchaction,
heir orindevisee,
maymanner
be made
a ...!
party
defendant
to any
the same
that
parues.
an executor or administrator may be made a party to any per

sonal action, according to the foregoing sections of this act.
Sec. 73. That if the heir or devisee of any such deceased The heir ºr devi;
defendant, shall, after having been cited in the manner aſore- º
said, neglect or refuse to appear and become a party to such come party, how

action, the court shall cause the appearance of such heir or . * *
devisee to be entered; and the cause shall thereafter be pro
ceeded in and tried, and the same judgment shall be rendered
therein, as if such action had been originally brought against
such heir or devisee.

Sec. 74. That if any person having a right to commence and when party
dies maintainan action of trespass, or
it
". on the case, for mesne


|..."...ram profits; or for an injury done or suffered to his estate, real or
causes of action personal; or for any deceit or fraud committed in the sale or

.."...exchange thereof; or, if any person liable to either of such
administrator, actions shall die before such action shall be brought, the cause

.*** of such action shall nevertheless survive; and any such action
may be brought by the executor or administrator of the de
ceased party, having such right of action, or it may be brought
against the executor or administrator of the deceased party,
liable to such action; and it may be proceeded in to final judg
ment and execution, as in other cases for or against executors
and administrators.

Sec. 75. That the said courts, or any president judge there
shall each have power to grant a commission,

Hºmu, of in vacation,

potestatem, and or dedimus potestatem, to take depositions, according to the

tºº. common usages of courts, where it may be necessary, to pre
tuate testimony vent the delay or failure of justice; and each of said courts,
***
sitting as a court of equity, shall have power, on application
ſor that purpose, to order and direct depositions to be taken in
perpetuam rei memoriam, relating to any matter cognizable
by such court, according to the usage of courts of equity in-like
Cases.

Sec. 76. That it shall be the duty of the judges of either
Courts mayºsta of said courts, from time to time as occasion may require, to

.."... ... make rules and orders for their respective courts; to direct the
pugnant to law, mode of taking rules and entering and making up judgments
by default or otherwise, in a manner not repugnant to the laws
of this State; to regulate the practice of the said courts res
pectively, as shall be fit and necessary for the advancement of

justice, and especially to prevent delay in proceedings, and
cause such rules to be entered on the journals of the court of
such county: and, in order that the rules of practice and pro
Rulesofsupreme ceedings of the several courts of common Pleas may be uni

*:::::::: form, and, as near as may be, conformable to the rules of the
... in ..." supreme court, the judges of the supreme court shall order
county.

the clerk of the said court to transmit copies of their rules and
regulations to the clerks of the courts of common pleas in eve

Rules of com

ry county, that the judges of the said courts shall, from time

...to gime, make rules and regulations agreeably thereto, as near
or nºrmºur, as may be, for the practice of their courts respectively.
Sec. 77. That the plaintifff or his attorney, if required,
...'... shall deliver to the defendant or his attorney, a copy of the
biu of particu account or bill of particulars of the demand, or a copy of the

... bill, bond, deed, bargain, contract, note, instrument or other
sues

writing, whereon the declaration is founded, or which he in
tends to offer in evidence at the trial.

petendant innke . Sec. 78. That the defendant or his attorney, if required.
manner to fur shall deliver to the plaintifff or his attorney, a copy of any

"...", deed or instrument of writing, of which, in his plea, he shall
*

make proſert; or a copy of any bill, bond, deed, note, receipt, bargain, contract, instrument of writing, or bill of particulars
of any account or demand, which he intends to offer in evidence
at the trial of the cause; and if the plaintifff or defendant shall Either party re.
refuse to furnish the copy or copies required, agreeably to the º:
provisions of this section or the preceding section, the party in evidence.
so refusing shall not be permitted to give in evidence at the

trial, the original, of which a copy has been refused as afore
said.

Sec. 79. That the party, whether plaintifff or defendant, parties to notice

shall take notice of the filing of the declaration, or other plead...:
ing in the cause, at his peril, without service of a copy and their peril.

notice of the filing of such declaration or other pleading, ex
cept as herein before excepted.
Sec. 80. That the defendant, at any time before issue join-Actions consoli,

ed, may move the court to consolidate unnecessary actions, or "." "**
to strike out superfluous counts in the declaration.
Sec. 81. That where there are issues in law and in fact, the Issues in land
issue in law shall be determined, before the issue in ſact shall first tried.
be tried.

Sec. 82. That where judgment shall be entered by default, on defaults the
against
defendant,
the court
shall aassess
theinquiry.
damages, un-º.
less the the
plaintifff
or defendant
request
writ of
amages. "
Sec. 83. That the party against whom a verdict hath been wouen tº a
rendered, may move for a new trial; and, if it be denied, may new trial to wre.

then move in arrest of judgment: but he shall not be permit...""
ted to move for a new trial, after a motion in arrest of judg
ment.

Sec. 84. That every special verdict and demurrer to evi-Proceedings on
dence, shall be entered on the minutes of the court; after special verdict.

which, either party may move the court to assign a day for ar.”
gument.

Sec. 85. That if execution shall not be sued out within five judgment stana.
years from the date of any judgment that now is, or that may ng, five years

hereafter be, rendered in any court within this State; or iſ five."...
years shall have intervened between the date of the last exe- mant, and its

cution issued on any such judgment obtained as aforesaid, and "***
the time of suing out another writ of execution thereon, such
judgment shall become dormant, and shall cease to operate as a
lien on the estate of the judgment debtor.
Sec. 86. That if such judgment still remain unsatisfied, it but debt may be
shall be lawful for the plaintifff, his heirs, executors or admin-hºught ºn such
istrators, to bring and maintain an action of debt, on such dor- lº.

mant judgment, against the defendant therein, his heirs, execu-ed by srire fº
tors or administrators; or such plaintifff, his heirs, executors"
or administrators, may, at his or their election, revive, by writ
of scire facias, sued out from the court rendering such judg
ment, or from the court having power to award execution there
on, any such judgment remaining unsatisfied, and have execu

tion thereof, against the defendant, his heirs, executors or ad
Ininistrators,
Sec. 87. That on the said writ of scire facias being return

.* * *ed
“scirethe
ſeci,”
or on twoshall
writsbe ofconsidered
scire facias
“nihil,”
defendant
in being
court,returned,
and may
Fusasbe proceeded against accordingly.
Sec. 88. That the defendant, his heirs, executors or admin
...istrators, shall be admitted to plead any matter, arising subse
i."maj' quent to the rendition of the judgment, he or they can alledge,
may be pleaded to show why execution should not be awarded; and the court
may render such judgment, and award such execution, as
ought to be rendered or awarded in the premises.
Sec. 89. That if either the plaintifff or defendant, or both,
º: §º shall have died after final judgment, and before satisfaction
ºjº" thereof, it shall, and may be lawſul for the plaintifff, or if he
.." shall have died, then for his real or personal representatives, as
ji"...pre: the case may require, to cause the defendant, or if he shall

tºº. have died, then his representatives, real or personal, as the
..". ..." case may require, to be made a party to such judgment, by writ
ment revived by or writs of scire facias, to be issued, served, and returned, in

"*"

the same manner that a summons may be issued, served, and
returned by law; and such judgment may be rendered, and
execution awarded in the premises, as might or ought to be
given, or awarded against the representatives, real or personal,
of a deceased party in other cases.

r. nº ºn. Sec. 90. That if the plaintifffshall die after any final judg:
... n."ment rendered against him, and before satisfaction thereof, it
ment was a

shall, and may be lawful for the defendant, or if he shall have

i."" " died, then for his representatives, real or personal, as the case
may require, to cause the representatives, real or personal, as
the case may require, of such deceased plaintifff, to be made a
party to such judgment, in the manner pointed out in the pre
ceding section; and the court may render the same judgment,
and award the same process of execution, in the premises, as is
directed in that section.

Sec. 91. That at least twelve days before every court of
docketed twelve common pleas, or supreme court, the clerks of the respective

Causes to be

...”
courts shall enter in a particular docket, all such causes, (and
those only) in which an issue is to be tried, or an inquiry of
damage is to be made, or a special verdict, or a case agreed,
demurrer, or other matter of law, is to be argued, in the
same order as they stand in the course of proceeding; setting

an emal mm. as near as may be, an equal number of causes to each day of
ber
to be set for his
the opinion,
time allowed
lawwill
for be
therequired,
sitting of
if, in
each day,
so manybydays
in such
tryingcourt,
the causes

sºn, is ready for trial, and issue subpºenas

for witnesses to attend on

ºu." or ºil be
the removed
days on which
theplace
causesonstand
trial: and
shal!
frºscº,
from its
thefor
docket;
but no
allcause
causes
in
which the intervention of a jury is necessary, shall be tried in
the order in which they stand, unless the parties otherwise
agree, or be continued until next term.

Sec. 92. That the clerk of each of the courts of this State, copy of docket

shall make out a copy of the trial docket for the use of their. * *
respective courts, by the first day of each term thereof.
Sec. 93. That the declaration, plea ſings, and other papers, filing and pres.
relative to every cause, shall be filed together in the office of.” “ ”
the clerk of each court, and be by him carefully preserved.

Sec. 94. That for preventing errors in entering the judg-Minutes of prº

ments, orders, and decrees of each court, the judges thereof,'...". ...
before every adjournment, shall cause the minutes of their eror, adjour

proceedings to be publicly read by their clerk, and corrected".
where necessary, and the same shall be signed by the president

judge then sitting in court; which minutes so -igned, shall be
entered in a book and carefully preserved among the records:
and no proceedings, orders, judgments, or decrees, of either
of the said courts, shall be in force or valid until the same be

so read and signed.

Sec. 95. That the clerk of each court, shallenter in a dock-c.,...,

º

him for that purpose, a list of all execu- ...
tions by him issued, the name of the person to whom delivered, and have tº
et book to be kept

what return is made thereon, in case the same be returned, ....."
and the final satisfaction of the judgment, when the same is
made; and the clerk shall keep the said docket in court while
sitting.

§.

96. That in all cases where a non-suit may be directed in what case, a

by
the court
common
by reasonadduced,
of irrelevancy
tes-ºl.
timony,
or byofreason
thatpleas,
the testimony
does notofsup-"
" ppeal:
port the case set forth in the declaration, and also, whenever
the testimony shall be arrested from the jury, by reason of
which the plaintifff becomes non-suit, the plaintifff shall have
the same right to appeal as in other cases: and either party
shall also have the right to except to the opinion of the court,
on a motion to direct a non-suit, to arrest the festimony from ºº:: of
the jury; and also, in all cases of motions for a new trial, by the court may tº
reason of any supposed misdirection of the court to the jury,”
or by reason that such verdict may be supposed to be against
law; so that such case may be removed by writ of error: and
when a party to a suit, in any court of common pleas within
this State, alledges an exception to any order or judgment of
such court, it shall be the duty of the judges of such court,
concurring in such order or judgment, if required by such par
ty during the term, to sign and seal a bill containing such ex-Exceptions to b

ception or exceptions as heretofore, in order that such bill of." " "
exceptions may, if such party desire it, be made a part of the
record in such suit.

Sec. 97. That the supreme court and court of common pleas, court, may re.
shall have power, in the trial of actions at law, on motion, and quire parties to

on ten days' notice thereof, to require the parties to produce."...",
books and writings in their possession or power, which contain evidence. ”
evidence pertinent to the issue, in cases and under circumstan
•es where they might be compelled to produce the same by the ordinary rules of proceeding in chancery: and if the plaintifff
shall tail to comply with such order to produce books or wri

tings, the courts respectively, on motion as aforesaid, may give
consequence of the like judgment for the defendant, as in case of non-suit; and
º * * if
a defendant
shallthe
ſailcourts
to comply
with such
to as
produce
books
or writis.gs,
respectively,
on order
motion
afore
t

said, may give judgment against him by default.
Sec. 98. That the supreme court and court of common pleas,

court, may

shall respectively have power to grant new trials in cases where

grant new trials, there has been a trial by jury, for reasons for which new trials
have usually been granted in the courts of law; and shall have
power to administer ali necessary oaths and affirmations, and
* to punish by fine or imprisonment, or both, at the discretion of
ºntº "the said courts, all contempt of authority in any cause or mat
/ter in hearing before the same: Provided, That not more than
twº new trials be granted to the same party, in the same cause.
Sec. 99. That when, in the supreme court, judgment upon
How to proceed a verdict in a civil action shall be entered, it shall be compe

...
for either party, during the term, to give notice that he
is applied for"...
in tent supreme court will make an application to the judges for a new trial; which
notice shall be entered of record upon the minutes of the court,
and the reasons for the same filed with the clerk: and it shall be

competent for the party giving the notice aforesaid, at any
time within twenty days, to apply to the supreme court, or any

two judges thereof, for a new trial in the said cause, and shall
submit the evidence in support thereof, with a copy of the rea
sons which may have been filed; which application, the said
court, or any two judges thereof, may grant or refuse, in their
discretion.

wº, nº ºn Sec. 100. That iſ the application shall he granted, the court,
ºn a yºu or any two judges thereof, shall certify the same to the clerk

ºn. of the court of the county where the action aforesaid shall have
been tried; and the judgment shall thereby be vacated, and
the cause stand for trial at the succeeding term; otherwise

*

execution or mandate shall issue, as in other cases: Provided,

That in every case, the certificate of the court, or the judges
thereof, shall be filed within ninety days from the rising of the
court, and not after.
Sec. 101. That the clerk of each court shall, in vacation,

.."make a complete record of the writ, recognizance of bail, plead
cation, and signings, orders and judgments or decrees, in each cause finally de
***** termined at the preceding term, in a book to be provided and

kept for that purpose; which record shall be signed by the
president or presiding judge of said court, at the next succeed
ing term of said court.

Sec. 102. That in all cases where the judicial acts, or other
brought up, to be proceedings, of the supreme court or court of common pleas,
...'..." and
in any
county by
in this
State, have
not been
regularly
up
recorded
the clerks
thereof,
it shall
be the brought
duty of the

Records not

o

supreme court or court of common pleas, as the case may be.
to eause the same to be made up and recorded, within such
time as the court may direct; and when so made up, the court

shall examine the said records, and if found correct, the presi
dent judge shall sign the same, as is provided in the preceding
-tion.

z) Sec. 103. That final judgments in the courts of common Judgments of

Apleas, may be examined, and reversed or affirmed, in the su ...". ºl.
preme court holden in the same county, upon a writ of error; ned and reversed

whereto shall be annexed and returned therewith, at a day and ...".
place therein mentioned, an authenticated transcript of the re-writ of error.
cord and assignment of error, and prayer for a reversal, with

a citation to the adverse party, or his attorney, signed by the
clerk of the supreme court, the adverse party having at least
ten days' notice.

Sec. 104. That no writ of error shall operate as a superse-Yº,
deas to any execution issued on any final judgment of the court ºl.”
of common pleas, unless the clerk, before signing such cita-bond given.
tion, shall take a bond from the applicant to the adverse party,
with one or more good and sufficient securities, in double the

amount of the judgment obtained, conditioned for the payment prºmption of
of the condemnation money and costs, in case the judgment bond.
of the common pleas should be affirmed, in whole or in part;
and writs of error shall not be brought, but within five years Error to be
after rendering the judgment complained of: or in case the ºut within

person entitled to such writ of error be an infant, feme co-....”
vert, non compos mentis, or imprisoned, then within five years judgment.
as aforesaid, exclusive of the time of such disability.

Sec. 105. That no summons, writ, declaration, return, pro- ...
we quashed for
cess, or other proceedings in civil causes, in either of the said waalºom.

courts, shall be abated, arrested, quashed or reversed, for any
defect or want of form; but the said courts, respectively, shall
give judgment according to the right of the cause, as the matter
in law shall appear unto them, without regarding any imper
ſection, defect or want of form in such writ, declaration or

other pleading, returned process, or course of proceeding
whatsoever, except those only in case of demurrer, which
the party demurring shall specially set down and express, toge
ther with his demurrer, as the cause thereof: and the said

courts respectively may, by virtue of this act, from time to
time, amend all and every such imperfection and defect for pleadings, may

want of form, other than those only which the party demurring."...".
shall express as aforesaid; and may, at any time before a writ writ of error
u \ of error be brought, permit either of the parties to amend any”

~ defect in process or pleadings, upon such conditions as the said
courts respectively shall, in their discretion and by their rules,
prescribe.

Sec. 106. That when a judgment shall be reversed in the when judgmen,
supreme court, in whole or in part, such court may proceed reverº.

either to render such judgment as the court of common pleas!...
should have rendered, or remand the cause to the court of or remand cause to common

common pleas, by writ of procedendo, for such judgment; and

pleas.

the supreme court shall not issue execution in causes that are

... removed before them by writ of error, on which they pronoun.
§º: cial mandate to the court of common pleas to award execution

..union, but snai ced judgment as aforesaid, or on appeals, but shall send a spe
thereupon; and such court is hereby authorized and required
to proceed in such cases, in the same manner as if such judg.
ment had been rendered therein; and, on motion, and good
cause shown, they may suspend any execution made returnable
before them by order of the supreme court, in the same manner
as if such execution had been issued from their own court:

Provided, That such power shall not extend further than to
stay proceedings till the matter can be further heard by the
supreme court.

cau.now used, Sec. 107. That when a judgment is reversed, the plaintifff
*

in error shall recover his costs; when a judgment is affirmed,
the defendant in error shall recover his costs; when a judg
ment is arrested, the party prevailing shall recover his costs;
and when a judgment is reversed in part, and affirmed in part,
costs shall be equally divided between the parties.

on error.

Sec. 108, That in civil cases an appeal shall be allowed, of

Appeals to sujºona, in course, to the supreme court, from any judgment or decree
what cases a had
rendered
in the
court of common pleas, in which such court
lowed.
original
jurisdiction.
Sec. 109. That the party desirous of appealing his cause to

. ... the supreme court, shall, at the term of the court of common
jºin" pleas
in which judgment or decree was rendered, enter on
the records of the court notice of such ‘intention; and, with
termia.

in thirty days after the rising of such court, shall enter into

... bond to the adverse party, with one or more good and sufficient

*: ... securities, to be approved of by the clerk of such court, in
double the amount of the judgment or decree rendered, condi

c., nºtioned for the payment of the full amount of the condemnation
money, in the supreme court, and costs, in case a judgment or
decree should be entered therein in favor of the appellee; and

bond.

wº, nº cºin case notice of appeal is entered as aforesaid, the court may,
appraiſiven "...on motion of the party entering such notice, on laying him un
...'...; der such reasonable restrictions and terms as they may judge
days.
necessary for the security of the adverse party, direct execu
tion to be stayed for thirty days: Provided, That in no case shall
sºlo, and administrators or executors be compelled to give bond and se.
administrators curity in order to perfect an appeal, as is above provided: and

...'...in such cases the clerk, if
not otherwise directed, shall, at the

expiration of thirty days from the rising of the court, make out
a transcript; which, together with the papers and pleadings
filed in the cause, he shall transmit to the clerk of the supreme
court, according to the provisions of this act, in other cases of
appeal.

* * *.

Sec. 110. That in all cases where the party against whom

tº a judgment is rendered, in the court of common pleas, appeals his cause to the supreme court, the lien of the opposite party
on the real estate of said appellant, created by said judgment,
shall not be by said appeal removed or vacated; but the real
estate of said appellant shall be bound in the same manner as
if said appeal had not been taken, until the final determination
of the cause in the supreme court.

Sec. 111. That if the plaintifff appealing, shall not recover costs in supreme

a greater sum in the supreme court, than in the court of com-. º;
mon pleas, exclusive of costs and interest, which may have ac- tº plantir.
crued since the rendition of the judgment in the court of com
mon Pleas, he shall pay all costs that may have accrued in the
supreme court in such case: and if the defendant in any per
sonal action shall remove the same by appeal to the supreme when by defen.
court, and the plaintifff shall recover in such cause a judgment"
for the same sum, or a larger sum than was recovered in the
>
court of common pleas, exclusive of costs, the supreme court

shall render judgment for the sum so recovered, with costs of
suit.

Judgment of

Sec. 112. That when an appealshall be granted, and bond...a...'.
and security given thereon as aforesaid, the judgment or decree poai.
rendered in such case, in the court of common pleas, shall there

by be suspended; and the clerk of such court shall forthwith ran.ru, or
make out an authenticated transcript of the docket or journal entries, and the

entries, and of the final judgment or decree, made and rendered.
in the case; which transcript, together with the original pa-clerk of supreme
pers and pleadings filed in the cause, he shall deliver into the *
office of the clerk of the supreme court, on or before the first
day of the term thereof, next after perfecting the appeal in Proviso as to re

manner aforesaid: Provided, That either party may require a ..."”
full record to be made of such cause in the court of common

pleas; and the same, when so required, shall be made at his
own proper costs and charges.
Clerk of supreme
Sec. 113. That the clerk of the supreme court shall, prior court may issue

to the filing with him of the transcripts, as herein before pro-...".
vided, on the application of either party to an appeal, issue
subpoenas for witnesses, returnable to the first day of the next
term of said court, on satisfactory proof being made before him
that such appeal has been taken.
Appeals to tº

Sec. 114. That when any cause is removed by appeal into{..., º:
the supreme court, the appeal shall be tried on the plead-common plens.

ings made up in the court of common pleas, unless for good.""
cause shown, and on payment of costs, the said court should
permit either or both parties to alter their pleadings; in which
case, such court shall lay the parties under such equitable rules
and restrictions, as they may conceive necessary to prevent
delay.

§. 115. That when judgment shall be rendered by theº.º.”
empreme court, in any case brought before them by writ of er-court shall rº

ror, in which errors in law may have been assigned; or in any. º:
case brought before them by appeal, or by any writ issued and file thrººm. from said supreme court, in which there may have been an
, with the papers issue in law or demurrer to evidence, or in which there may
of the cause,

have been a verdict and motion in arrest of judgment; or for a

new trial, ſounded on a supposed misdirection of the court to
the
or on the improper admission of testimony, or the
irrelevancy of testimony; or upon any allegation that such ver
dict is against law—it shall be the duty of the court to reduce
the reasons of their judgment to writing, and cause the same
to be filed with the other papers of such cause: and if it should
so happen that the judges of said court should difier in opinion,
then the dissenting judge shall reduce to writing the reasons of
his opinion; and the same shall be filed as aforesaid.

ſº

When some

Sec. 116. That where there are in a declaration several

ºn decla counts, any one or more of which shall be defective, and the

ratiºn gººd.” residue good, and entire damages are given, the verdict shall

... “be good and effectual in law: Provided, The plaintifff, before
the jury retire from the bar, apply to the court to instruct the
jury to disregard such defective count or counts.

Sec. 117. That if in detinue, the verdict shall omit price or
verdict in deti. value, the court may, at any time, award a writ of inquiry to

*
* ... ascertain the same: if on an issue concerning several things
price, how to :
proceed.
in one count in detinue, no verdict be found for part of them,
it shall not be error; but the plaintifff shall be barred of his title

to the things omitted.

Sec. 118. That in case a quorum of the supreme court or
A quorum of the court of common pleas, shall fail to attend at the time and place

...,"...
for holding their respective courts, the judge attend.
judge or appointed

nº jailing, (or if no judge be present, then the sheriff or coroner, as
*court, the case may be,) shall have power to adjourn the court from
day to day, until a quorum be convened; or, if no quorum
shall be present within two days after the first day of the term,
then, and in such case, all suits, plaints, process and pleadings,
of whatever nature, commenced or depending in the said court,
shall stand continued, of course, to the next term to be holden
in said county by the said court.

Sec. 119. That in all cases in which it shall be made to ap
venue may be pear to the court, that a fair and impartial trial cannot be had
changed.
in the county where the suit is pending, the court may direct
the venue to be changed to some adjoining county.
Sec. 120. That the “Act to organize the judicial courts and
Act, repealed. regulate their practice,” passed February the eighteenth, in
the year eighteen hundred and twenty-four; and the act amen
ding the last named act, passed February third, eighteen hun
dred and twenty-six; and the act entitled “An act to provide
more effectually for the taking of depositions, and to dispense
with the making of full records of judgments in certain cases,”
passed February twentieth, eighteen hundred and twenty
eight; be, and the same are hereby, repealed: Provided, That

Having clause all rights acquired, and duties, or obligations, incurred under,
and by virtue of, the above mentioned acts, or cither of them. shall be saved, and remain as available, as if the said acts had
not been repealed; and all actions, suits, causes or matters,

pending at the time this act shall take effect, may be prosecu
ted and defendéd, and carried into final judgment and execu
tion, under the provisions of this act.
This act to take effect, and be in force, from and after the
first day of June next.

AN ACT directing the mode of proceeding in chancery.

Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of

Ohio, That the court of common pleas shall have jurisdiction, ſarilletion of
in all cases, properly cognizable by a court of chancery, in “” P”

rº plain, adequate, and complete remedy

cannot be had at

aws

Sec. 2. The supreme court shall have concurrent jurisdic
tion with the courts of common pleas, in all cases, properly

cognizable by a court of chancery, where the title to, or any ..."
contract in relation to land is in question, or the sum or matter concurrent,
in dispute, exceeds one thousand dollars in value; and appel

late jurisdiction, in all cases, regularly brought before them, Appellate
from the chancery decisions of the courts of common pleas.
Sec. 3. The said courts shall have power to make rules and

regulations, for the government of proceedings had before to be governed
them, and shall, in all things, be governed by the known usages by usages in

of courts of equity, except where it may be otherwise provi-"
ded by law.
Sec. 4. All applications to the chancery side of either of
said courts, shall be by petition, setting forth the nature and Application by
grounds of the complainant’s claim, which shall be filed in the *
office of the clerk of such court.

Sec. 5. The clerk, on the application of the complainant or
his solicitor, shall, (after said petition is filed,) issue a subpoena subpoena to is
to the defendant or defendants named in said petition, com-".
manding him or them to appear at the next term of the court,
and answer the complainant's petition; and if the petition is In term returns

filed in term time of either of said courts, then the subpoena"*"
shall issue, returnable forthwith.

Sec. 6. The following shall be the form of a writ of sub
Cena :

THE STATE OF OHIO,
County, ss.
To the sheriff (or coroner, as the case may be,) of the county
of

Greeting:

Form of subpoe

We command you, that you summon A. B., to appear before na. the judges of our supreme court, (or judges of our court of
common pleas, as the case may be,) at the court-house, on the

Nº

day of

instant, (or next ensuing,) to answer a

F.". in chancery, exhibited against him by C. D.; and this

Šy
N

e shall in no wise omit, under the penalty of one thousand

º

dollars, and have then and there this writ. Witness, the honora

ble E. F. chief judge, (or president judge,) of our said court, at
day of
G. H., clerk
of
Which subpoena shall be signed by the clerk,

the court-house, this

§

sealed with the seal of the court, and be tested of the same
/

day on which it issued.

(9 Sec. 7. Where the complainant shall make several defend
subpoena nay ants to his petition, who reside in different counties in this

º, ‘. . State, the clerk of the court in which the same is filed, may
State.

issue subpoenas into the several counties, in which said defend
ants are supposed to reside, directed to any proper officer
therein, who shall serve and return the same: and in cases
where any or all of the defendants reside out of this State, the

... complainant may cause personal service of a subpºena, with a
i. s. copy of the petition; or he may cause notice of the pendency
may be persºnal of the petition, containing a summary statement of the object

*** and prayer thereof, to be published six consecutive weeks, in
some newspaper printed in the county where the petition is
filed, if there be any, and if not, in some newspaper printed
in this State, of general circulation in the county.
Sec. 8. The service of a subpoena, or other process for ap
Mode of serving pearance, shall be by delivering a copy thereof to the defend
*** ant, or leaving one at his dwelling house, or usual place of
abode; and the officer or other person serving the same, shall
indorse on the original, the time and manner of service: and
when the service is made out of this State, the return shall be

verified by oath or affirmation; and upon return of service of
the process, or due proof of notice having been given as afore
said, the defendants shall be considered in court.
Sec. 9. The complainant may insert as many defendants in

..""...his petition as he may think proper, though they claim under
may be defend different titles; but if any of the defendants disclaim, he shall

***** pay their costs, except when the court, for special reasons, may
otherwise decree.

Sec. 10. In cases where it shall be necessary to make the
*when the names heirs of any decedent, defendants, and the names of all, or

... .". part of them, are unknown, and the complainant annexes to
proceed.

his petition an affidavit, of his want of knowledge of the names
or residence of such heirs, proceedings may be had against
them, without naming them, and the court shall make such or
der in relation to notice, as they may deem proper.
Sec. 1 . In cases where the title to, or boundaries of

suits concerning land, or contracts concerning lands or tenements, are drawn
lands to be in the in question in chancery, and any or all of the defendants are

‘...an.” non-residents of the State, suit may be prosecuted in any county where the land lies, and the court shall direct the manner of
giving notice to the absent defendants.
Sec. 12. When either party shall have been called on for a

discovery under oath, and the facts as to which the discovery *"...

is prayed, are afterwards submitted to a jury; the answer put shall so to jury.
in as to such facts, shall be laid before the jury in the same
manner, as in issues directed to be tried at law, by a court of
chancery.

º

Sec. 13. In all suits in chancery, which may be brought for petition, con.
the foreclosure or redemption of any mortgage, or for the fore-cerning
lands ly:
ing in different
- - closure or specific performance of any contract in writing, for .m.".
the sale or encumbrance of any real estate, and the real estate court filed.
described in such mortgage or contract in writing, shall lie in
different counties in this State, the complainant may file his
petition in the supreme court or common pleas, in either of the
counties in which such real estate may be situated, and the
court shall proceed therein; and any order, interlocutory or
final decree made in such suit, shall be enforced by process, di
rected to the sheriff or other officer of any county, in which
any part of said real estate is situated: Provided, That any pe.
decree rendered in anyy such
not operate
in anyy oth. tice
..."...".
.
such suit,
suit, shall
s
p
out of the
er county than the one in which it is rendered as notice, exceptºy un re

where a certified copy of it shall be recorded in the recorder's “

.

office.

Sec. 14. Any person having the legal title and possession of,

havi

lands, may file a petition against any other person, setting up a . .
claim thereto; and if the complainant establishes his title to ion of land may

said lands, the defendant shall be decreed to release his claim,....".
and to pay the complainant his costs, unless the defendant in lease.
his answer, shall disclaim all title or claim to such lands, and

offer to give such release to the complainant; in which case
the complainant shall pay to the defendant his costs, except for
special reasons, the court shall otherwise decree.

Sec. 15. When a suit at law, for the recovery of money or may, mºs
damages, for any cause of action which would survive to, or jºine demº.

against, the personal representative of the plaintifff or defend-ºº:
ant; or whenever a suit in chancery, for the recovery of a spe-in."o person

cific sum of money or damages, shall be pending in either of ºs " +
the courts aforesaid, against a non resident defendant, or “
against a resident defendant, who has, during the pendency of
said suits, either secretly departed out of the jurisdiction of

the court, or secreted himself or property within the same,
so that the ordinary process of law cannot be served on either,
and there should be any person or persons, resident within such
jurisdiction, who is, or are indebted to, or has in possession,
goods and chattels, rights, credits, monies or effects, belong
ing to such non-resident, or secreting defendant; the said plain
tiff at law, or complainant in chancery, may file a petition
against the person or persons so indebted, or having in his pos
session the goods and chattels, rights, credits, monies or effects,.
of such non-resident, or secreting defendant, annexing an aff
davit of the truth of the allegations therein contained, and of
the amount of the debt or damages by him claimed; and the
Injunction may sons
courtfrom
may,paying
in theirover,
discretion,
enjoin
such
person
per
conveying
away,
or other
secreting
suchordebts
by him owing to said non-resident, or secreting defendant, or
his goods and chattels, rights, credits, monies or effects, until
the final judgment at law, or decree in chancery, can be had in

*58ue.

such former cause: and the court, on final hearing, shall make

such final order or decree between the parties, as they shall
think just and equitable.
Sec. 16. In all cases where judgments at law, or decrees in
... chancery, have been obtained, and rendered against any per

... son, and the debtor has not personal or real estate, subject to
in banking and levy on execution, sufficient to satisfy said judgment or decree;

...'", but has any equitable interests in real estate, as mortgagor,
action, &c. ºut. mortgagee, or otherwise; or any interest. shares, or stock, in

...” any banking, turnpike, bridge, or other joint stock company; or
ments and "de choses
any judgments
decrees,
or or
anywhich
money,may
contracts,
in action,ordue
to him,
becomedebts,
due; or
or
monies, goods, and effects, in the hands or possession of any
person, body politic or corporate; the same may be subjected
in chancery, to the payment of said judgment or decree, and
applications may be made to the courts of chancery, in the
county where such judgment or decree was rendered, or where
said lands lie, to subject any or all of the herein before enume
rated interests, to the payment of the judgment or decree afore
Proceedings in
relation thereto. said, according to the usual course of proceeding, and known usa
ges of courts of chancery, and the said court shall decree sales,
and enforce all necessary transfers and conveyances, to vest in
any person purchasing, or taking under such decree, all the right,
crees,

title, and interest, of the said debtor, in the interests sold, or

the subject of the decree, at the time of the service of process
in such case, to be held in the same manner such debtor held

Equities in land, the same: Provided, That the sale of all equitable interests in
how sold.
real estate, shall be conducted in all respects, in the same man
ner as is provided by law, for the sale of real estate, in the “act

regulating judgments and executions.”
Sec. 17. The defendant shall file his plea, demurrer, or an
Defendant to

***"...we, ºr swer, to the petition, in the clerk's office of the court where
demur, in sixty

..".m., "... the cause is pending, in sixty days next after the term to which
pearance term, process is returned, “served;” or to which the defendant has
unless the court allow further time:
and if the plea, demurrer, or answer, shall not be filed as afore

.." "been notified to appear,

said, the petition shall be taken as confessed by the defendant;
complainant and the court may thereupon decree, or in its discretion, re
may tº exam quire, the production of proof from the complainant: or exa

*** mine him under oath, touching the premises, causing the ex
amination to be reduced to writing, and filed with the papers in the cause, and thereupon make such final, or other decree,
as to them shall seem just and equitable.

Sec. 18. When a plea is filed, and the complainant con-issue may be ta.

ceives the same to be good, though not true, he may reply, and *** Plea.
take issue upon it, and proceed as in case of answer.
Sec. 19. If the defendant file a demurrer and answer, the Demurrer first

complainant shall not proceed on the answer, till the demurrer"."
has been argued or disposed of.

Sec. 20. If the plea or demurrer be overruled, no other rº, &c.
plea or demurrer shall be thereafter received; but the com-º,+...
plainant's petition may be taken as confessed, and the court.” or an:
shall proceed to decree thereon; or in their discretion, they . im…":
may receive an answer on affidavit of merits, and that such merits.

plea or demurrer was not filed for the purpose of delay.
Sec. 21. If the plea or demurrer be allowed, the complain-costs on plea, &c

†.
shall pay costs; and if overruled, the defendant shall
them.

pay", " paid.

Sec. 22. The complainant shall file his exceptions, or a re-Replication or

plication, within thirty days after the time limited for filing an ...”
answer, if such answer be filed in time; or on failure thereof,

such
cause
for hearing
petition andbeanswer.
Sec.
23. shall
If thestand
exceptions
of theoncomplainant
overruled,'...".

ex

he shall pay costs to the defendant; and if the defendant’s whom paid.
answer be adjudged insufficient, he shall pay costs to the com
plainant.

Sec. 24. When an answer shall be adjudged insufficient, the Answer insuffi.

defendant shall file a second or further answer, within thirty.' ... in
days after such adjudication, or within such further time as the thirty days, or

court may direct; and on failure thereof, the said petition shall." "“”
be taken as confessed, and such proceedings be had thereon, as
if the first original answer had not been filed within the limited
or granted time.

Sec. 25. If such second or further answer shall be adjudged second answer
insufficient, the defendant shall pay double costs: and in such insufficient, de
case further time to answer shall not be allowed; but the said *"...º. .

#.

shall be taken as confessed, and such proceedings be no further time

ad thereon, as if the first or original answer had not been filed”
in due time; or the defendant may be examined upon interro

gatories, and committed until he shall answer and pay costs.
Sec. 26. Every defendant may swear or affirm to his answer, ... whº
before any judge, justice of the peace, master commissioner in º
chancery, or in any court of record in this State.
Sec. 27. Where it is necessary for the defendant to bring a how defendant
new party before the court, he shall state it in his answer, and º,"."
insert interrogatories for him to answer; and thereupon a sub-out.
poena shall be sent out, and other proceedings be had, as in
case of other defendants.

Sec. 28. The defendant in chancery, after he shall have filed Defendant may

his answer,º mayy exhibit
interrogatories
to the complainant.'...".
ex
ga
p
* ries to complain
which shall be answered by him on oath or affirmation; and such answer shall be evidence in the cause, in the same man

ant, which hall ner, and to the same effect, as the defendant's answer to the

"“ complainant's petition is evidence: and if the complainant
shall not answer such interrogatories by the time appointed by
the court, he shall be in contempt, and his petition dismissed
with costs.
Sec. 29. If a cross petition shall be filed by any defendant,
ºil, anºwº, he must put in his answer to the first petition, before the de
ºw" fendant to the cross petition shall be compelled to answer.
Sec. 30. All rules, common or special, by consent of the par

º “ ” ties or their counsel, shall be entered of course with

the clerk,

whether in term time or in vacation.

Sec. 31. All amendments shall be made with or without
Amendments.

costs, and on such equitable terms as the court shall direct.
Sec. 32. Parties to suits in chancery, shall take notice at

... ." *: their peril of the filing of answers, demurrers, pleas, replica

* "tions, and other pleadings, and of the pronouncing and signing
decrees.

on nam, on Sec. 33. If a complainant proceed to a hearing, on the peti;
biii and answer tion and answer only, the answer shall be taken to be true in all

‘.... points; and no evidence shall be received to contradict the
same, unless it be matter of record to which the answer refers,
and is proveable by the said record.

road, ºn

Sec. 34. Every chancery cause shall be considered at issue

cause at issue on filing a replication, and it shall not be necessary to enter a
rule to rejoin in any cause.

i-usinnama, , Sec. 35. If there be an issue as to any matter of fact, which
we tried by jury shall render the intervention of a jury necessary, the courts are
hereby authorized to direct an issue for the trial of the same;
and the verdict shall be entered of record, and made use of at

(d

the hearing of the cause.
Sec. 36. When any cause in chancery shall be finally deter

cºmplete º mined, the clerk of the court shall enter together in order, the

of causes deter-...” petition, answer, pleadings and exhibits therein referred to, the
made by clerk, reports, decretal orders, statement of facts found by a jury, or

*...* * agreed by the parties, and decree in such cause, in a book to
be kept for that purpose, which shall be signed by the court at
the next term, as of the day on which such decree was pro
nounced.

n..... . .pe. . Sec. 37. The decree of either of the said courts sitting in
rate as judg. chancery, shall, from the time of their being pronounced, have
* * **, the force, operation and effect, of a judgment at law.
Sec. 38. When a decree shall be made for a conveyance,

peeree foracon. release, or acquittance, in either of said courts, sitting as a
veyance to ope, court of chancery, and the party against whom the said decree

.*** shall pass, does not comply therewith by the time appointed,
then such decree shall be considered and taken in all courts of

law and equity, to have the same operation and effect, and be
as available, as if the conveyance, release, or acquittance, had
been executed conformably to such decree.
Sec. 39. The supreme court, or any judge thereof, and the
court of common pleas, or any president judge thereof, shall writs of ne

have power to grant writs of ne exeat, to prevent the depar-.' " "
ture of any defendant out of this State, until security is given to
perform the decree: and writs of ne exeat shall be allowed at
the discretion of the supreme court in term time, or any judge
thereof in vacation; or of the court of common pleas in term
time, or any president judge thereof in vacation, upon petition
filed, with an affidavit annexed of the truth of the allegations:
and if said writ be granted, the court or judge shall direct to
be indorsed thereon, in what amount security shall be given to
the complainant.
Sec. 40. If the defendant shall, by his answer, satisfy the when writ may
court that there is no reason for his restraint, or give sufficient ****
security to perform the decree, the writ may be discharged.
Sec. 41. The supreme court, or any judge thereof, and the Injunctions, by
court of common pleas, or any president judge thereof, shall "****
have power to grant writs of injunction to stay waste: and ei

ther of said courts, or any judge thereof, shall have power to
grant writs of injunction, to stay the proceedings before or af.
ter judgment, of any of the courts of law.
Sec. 42. No injunction shall be allowed by the Supreme when supreme
court, or any judge thereof, to stay proceedings at law, before fourtshall not al

or after judgment, unless the matter in dispute be of sufficient” "
value to give original jurisdiction to the court of common
pleas; and no injunction shall be allowed by the court of com- Whe
mon pleas, or any indge thereof, in such cases, unless the mat-ji."
ter in dispute be of the value of twenty dollars: and in either

case, the petition shall show good cause in equity for such in-petition for in
junction, and be verified by affidavit; and with the allowance, tºº-ºº:

the court or judge shall direct the amount in which security tº "
shall be given by the complainant.
Sec. 43. No injunction shall operate to stay proceedings at Injunction in
law, before or after judgment, until the party obtaining the º in
same, shall give bond, with sufficient security, to be approved "º".
by the clerk of the court, granting such injunction, in the
amount required by the court or judge allowing the same, for Condition

of

the payment of all monies and costs due, or to become due, bond:
from the complainant, in such suit or judgment at law, and all
monies and costs which shall be decreed against him, in case
such injunction shall be dissolved; and on the execution of the
bond as aforesaid, the clerk shall indorse on the subpoena, “In
Junction allowed and bail given,” and sign his name thereto;
... ? Writ
-need not

and in no case shall it be necessary to issue the writ of in-j
Junction.

Sec. 44. In all cases where an injunction may be hereafter when in
allowed, to stay proceedings at law, in an action for recovery tº rayºn.
of money only, upon the dissolution of the injunction, and dis- º:
Junce

missal of the petition in the court of common pleas, the court wiatº.

shall render a decree in favor of the respondent, (plaintifff at law) for the debt or damages, interest and costs recovered at

renalty of five law; and also, for the interest and costs accruing in chancery,
together with five per cent. penalty on the amount of debt or
damages, and the interest which may have accrued.
Sec. 45. If the complainant shall appeal from the decree
...” rendered in the court of common pleas to the supreme court,

per cent,

*... ... in any case specified in the foregoing section, and the said in
solve injunction, junction shall be dissolved, and petition dismissed in said su
º º: preme court, they shall render a decree for the debt or dama
penalty.
ges, interest and costs, which were recovered at law; also, for
the interest and costs, which may have accrued in the court of
common pleas, and supreme court, together with ten per cent.

penalty on the debt or damages, and interest accrued in favor
of the respondent.

wºmans. Sec. 46. When a sheriff, or other officer, has

received the

jº money whole, or any part of the money, for the collection of which,

... a. any execution has issued, and the person against whom such
...'... execution has issued, his executors or administrators, shall ob
jºined.money tain an injunction, to stay the proceedings under such execu

*****tien, the sheriff, or other officer, shall repay to the person against
whom such execution issued, his executors, administrators, or

attorney of record, the money so received, or such part thereof
as may be enjoined, retaining sufficient to pay the costs, to be
collected by the execution: Provided, The money has not been
paid over to the plaintifff, his attorney of record, or his execu
tors or administrators.

Sec. 47. If any sheriff, or other officer, shall fail or refuse,

º: º ... on demand made by the complainant, his executors, adminis
trators, or attorney of record, to pay the money so received, or
such part thereof as may be enjoined, he shall be amerced, on
motion in open court, for the use of the plaintifff, in the same

amerced.

manner that such sherifſ, or other officer, would be liable to be

amerced for failing to pay over money made on execution: but

but court may nothing in this, or the preceding section, shall be so construed

..","... ... as to prevent the court or judge from ordering the money so
into court, or re-made, on execution as aforesaid, to be paid into court, or retain

... " "ed in the hands of the officer, until the said injunction shall be
dissolved or made perpetual.
Sec. 48. If the person against whom an injunction to stay

... waste, shall be allowed, after the service and notice thereoſ,
stay waste, may shall do, commit, consent, direct, or suffer to be done or com
* "mitted, any waste or destruction of, or upon the premises, con
trary to the injunction, the court, or any judge of the supreme

court, or president judge of the court of common pleas, in the
recess of the courts, on motion and affidavit, may award an

attachment for contempt, to be issued against the person char
ged with disobedience to, and a breach of the injunction;
Sec. 49. If the person so offending, shall be brought º
... "... the court or judge, by virtue of said attachment, audit sha
contempt, may
... Anº appear to the court or judge, as aforesaid, that such waste or
destruction, hath been done or committed, the said court or

judge as aforesaid, may order said defendant, in their discre-de.ſº mak.

tion, to pay to the clerk of the court, a fine not exceeding two "...".
hundred dollars, for the use of the county, and to make imme-imprisºned
diate restitution to the party injured; or in default thereof, to
order such defendant to be committed to close custody, until he

shall fully comply with such order, or be otherwise legally

dis

charged.

Sec. 50. The supreme court, or any judge thereof, and the Injunctions may
low injunctions in all cases, (other than to stay waste or pro. º. º.

court of common pleas, or any president judge thereof, may al-ºil

ceedings at law, as herein are provided for,) where it is usual .

for courts of equity to interfere by injunction, on petition filed,
showing good cause in equity for such injunction, and verited
by affidavit; and the court or judge allowing the same, may

impose such conditions upon the party obtaining it, as shall
seem to them equitable.

Sec. 51. The courts of chancery shall have power to enforce
their decrees and orders, by attachment or sequestration; and º:
if necessary, to award and issue such final process against the enforced
goods, chattels, lands and tenements, or against the person of
any defendant, as may be issued on a judgment rendered in a
court of law; and all such process shall be obeyed, executed and
returned by the sheriff, or other officer, to whom the same shall

be directed, in like mauner, and under the same penalties, as
are provided in cases of process, issuing from a court of law.
º Sec. 52. If any sheriff, or other officer, to whom any writ, office, miling to
process, or order, of either of said courts of chancery, shall be return proº in
directed or delivered, shall not make return thereof at the day tºº.”
of return, and according to the tenor of such writ, process or fined
order, the same not being stayed, he shall be in contempt, and
process of contempt shall, on motion in term time, be issued
against him; and the court may order him to pay to the clerk
of the court, a fine not exceeding fifty dollars, together with
the costs.

Sec. 53. The courts of chancery shall have power to en. Rule, sº may
force obedience to their process, rules and orders, by process ofte enº y

attachment for contempt; and any person in contempt, may be." “
fined in any sum not exceeding fifty dollars, at discretion, and º, on.
imprisoned until the said process, rule or order, shall be obeyed **Tºt
ntempt

and performed, and until the fine imposed for the contempt soned
and the costs, be fully paid.

Sec. 54. The courts of chancery shall have power in all cons in chance.
cases, to award and tax costs on equitable principles, at their ry, how taxed

discretion, except where it is otherwise directed by this, or any”
other, Legislative act: and the payment of such costs, when
awarded and taxed, may be enforced by writs of fieri facias,
º ad satisfaciendum, or in any other mode said courts may
direct,

Sec. 55. Any person, or the heirs or personal representa
Appeals ºn tive of such person, may appeal to the supreme court, from any
: º final sentence or decree, pronounced and made in any cause or
allowed in chan suit in chancery, in the court of common pleas, on giving notice

***** and security within the time required by law, in cases of ap
Lien not affected

thereby

peals of suits at law; and no lien created by said sentence and
decree, on any real estate, shall be vacated or removed by said
appeal, but shall remain until the final adjudication of the
cause in the supreme court.

Rehearing

Sec. 56. Petitions for re-hearing, shall be signed by counsel,
and preferred within thirty days after the making of the order,
on the hearing; and the prayer of such petitions shall be al

lowed or disallowed, at the discretion of any two of the judges
of the court of common pleas, or one of the judges of the su
preme court, who made the order on the hearing of the case.
Sec. 57. Any person who was a party to a decree of a court

petitions for re. of chancery, his heirs, executors or administrators, may file a
.*.* petition, for a review of the proceedings in which such former

“"“” decree was rendered, at any time within five years next after
rendering such decree, unless the person entitled to such peti
*...nºtion for review, was an infant, feme covert, non compos mentis
case of disability

or imprisoned, then within five years after the removal of such disability.

Sec. 58. If the petition for review, be brought upon errors

ra, o, ... of law appearing in the body of the decree, or proceedings
ºrrºrs themselves, it may be filed as an original petition in chancery,

...'... as a matter of course; but if the petition for review, be brought
... upon the discovery of new matter, since the hearing on the lor
ter, by eave of iner decree, it shall only be filed, with the leave of the court to
court
which it is exhibited: in either case the court may, at their
Proceedings on discretion, on motion, stay the proceedings on the former de
*..."... cree, until the further order of the court, or until final decree

may be stayed is made on the petition for review: Provided, The motion
to stay proceedings, be made at the term at which the peti
Provisº,

tion for review is exhibited, and with leave filed; or if filed in
vacation, then at the next succeeding term; and if proceed

ings are decreed to be stayed, the court shall direct security to
be given, as in cases of appeals or injunctions to stay proceed
ings at law.

Sec. 59. If proceedings are not stayed by order of the
if not stayed, court, the party against wi.on such former decree was render

*…* ed, shall
wºn

fully comply there with, and the court may, if they
deem it necessary, require security for costs to be given, on

the petition of review.

r.,..., , , ,

Sec. 60. Parties against whom a decree has been rendered,

parties having without ºther notice than the publication in the newspaper, as

i. "... provided for in this act, may, at any time within five years after
as tº opened the date of the decree, have the said decree opened, and be let
*** in to defend and to a hearing: but before the decree shall be

"...","...opened, the applicants shall give notice to the original com
suºt decree may

be opened

plainant, or his representatives, of the intention to make the application, and shall file a full answer to the original bill, pay
all costs, and make an affidavit, that during the pendency of
said suit, he or she received no actual notice thereoſ, in time to

appear in court and object to said decree: Provided, That the title orbonn fide

title to any real or personal estate, the subject of the former."

decree, which, by it, or in consequence of it, shall have passed
into the hands of a bona fide purchaser, shall not be affected by
any proceedings under this section.
Sec. 61. When any suit in chancery is pending, and either party to suit in
*

party thereto shall die, the same may be revived for or againstºy ºf
tº executors, or administrators, heirs, legatees, or devisees, of..."
tue deceased intestate or testator, in the same manner as any

suit may re revived at law, by or against the executors, admi
nistrators, heirs, legatees, or devisees, of any decedent.
(Č J Sec. 63. The supreme court, and court of common pleas, Master commi.
may appoint in each county, such number of persons as they ºne.”y be

may think necessary, to be master commissioners in chancery,...". ...
who shall hold their offices for the term of three years, unless " " "
removed by the court for good cause: and said commissioners

shall have power to take depositions in cases at law and equity;...".m.!"
to issue process to compel the attendance of witnesses, which
shall be served as other process in chancery; and to do all
such other acts of a ministerial nature, commonly performed
by masters in chancery: who shall be allowed such fees for Their ſees
taking depositions as are pointed out by law; and for all other
services rendered, such ſees as are allowed for similar services,

to other officers, or shall be assessed by the court, and taxed in
the bill of costs.

Sec. 63. Petitions in chancery, which shall be hereafter filed pin, to renº.
for the purpose of perpetuating evidence, shall set forth spe-tuate testimony.

cially the subject matter, relative to which such evidence is to.” "
be taken, the names of parties, if known to complainant; but if vº
not known, then such general description as he may be able to %c
give of the person, as heir, devisee, alienee, or otherwise, as

the representative of some person, who shall be named in such nºngan,
petitions:
andthe
thesame
defendants
petitions
broughtcases
in as in
into court in
mannerinassuch
in other
cases.shall be brought other
Sec. 64. The complainant, before he takes any evidence,
: ' Complainant
under any order which may be made in such case, shall file in ...".".

court the names of the witnesses, and the interrogatories to be name ºf witnes

propounded to each witness; and where actual notice has not..."
been served on the defendant, the court, or one of the judges And iſ defendant

thereof in vacation, shall appoint some attorney of the court, to...","...".
examine the petition and interrogatories, and to file cross in-point attorney to

terrogatories thereto, which shall be forwarded with the inter... "
rogatories to the officer taking the depositions, and these shall’
be fully answered to by such witness: aud no question, other
than those filed in court, shall be put to such witness, nor any
statement be received from him, which is not responsive to
some one of the interrogatories: and the attorney filing the
º: "... cross
interrogatories, by order of the court, shall be allowed a
reasonable fee therefore, to be taxed in the bill of costs.

bill

Sec. 65. Such deposition shall be taken before one of the

º... master commissioners in this State, or before some person spe
*..." "cially authorized by a dedimus potestatem to take the same,
and when taken, shall be returned to the court in which such
petition is pending; and if the court shall be satisfied, that the

depositions have been properly taken, and conformably to the
provisions of this act, they shall order them to be made a part
To be recorded of the record in the cause: and such original deposition, or a

...'..." certified copy thereof, shall be evidence in any suit, which
pºrne, and priv may be thereafter litigated between the parties to such peti
. ºtion, or their privies, relative to the property which shall have

º," been the subject matter thereof: Provided, The deponent can:
not be obtained to testify in such subsequent suit or litigation.
Sec. 66. Iſ at any time, after filing such petition as afore.
said, the complainant shall prove by his own oath or otherwise,
to the satisfaction of the court, or any judge thereof, in vaca
evidencesſaged, tion. that any material witness is old, infirm, or about to leave
infirm, or going the State, whereby he will be in danger of losing the evidence

..","..." of such wit, css, by death, inability to testify or removal, the
e” ºr order of court, or such judge in vacation, may make and cause to be fil

*** ed among the records in such cause, an order for taking the
deposition of such aged, infirm, or going witness, de bene esse;
and in case of the death or removal of such witness, before the
defendant can be brought into court as above directed, such
Its effect

deposition shall be holden good and valid, as if the same had
been taken by order of the court, after service of notice, or
notice duly published.

ca, is lºw, Sec. 67. All such petitions shall be filed, and proceedings
º

by complainan, therein had, at the proper costs of the complainant.
Sec. 68. The acts entitled “An act directing the mode of
ATAhs repealed proceeding in chancery,” passed 22d day of February, 1824 and
\
the act to amend the act entitled “An Act directing the mode
of proceeding in chancery.” passed the 11th day of February,
1828, and the act to amend an act entitled “An Act defining
the mode of proceeding in chancery,” passed the 10th day of
January, 1899, are hereby repealed: Provided, That all causes
Saving clause now pending and undetermined, and all petitions and proceed
ings which may be commenced before the taking effect of this
act, shall be prosecuted and determined by the provisions of
the foregoing acts; and all proceedings had, and decrees pro
nounced. shall be held valid and carried into effect by the pro

*A.

visions of the above recited acts.

Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of

Ohio, That it shall be the duty of all the judges of the supreme.

in ºn tº

court, to meet annually in the town of Columbus, on the second... "...
Monday of January, to hold a court in bank, for the final adju hºld
dication of all such questions of law as may have been reserved
in any county, for decision, at the said term, as hereinaſter pro
vided.

Sec. 2. That any three of the said judges shall constitute arm. ... ,
quorum should quorun."
quorum for the transaction of business; but if athen
any one of..."."
fail to attend at the time and place appointed,
the said judges, or in case of the failure of all the judges to at-jººn"rom

a

tend, then the crier of the court shall have power, and it is "y" day

hereby made his duty, to adjourn the said court, from day to
day, until a quorum shall convene.
Sec. 3. That if no quorum shall convene in ten days after if no quorum in

the commencement of the term appointed by law, then, and in .º.º.
such case, all questions or other matters reserved for decision"
of the said term, shall stand continued to the next term of the

said court, to be holden under the provisions of this act.

Sec. 4. That when any important or difficult question shah was anº.
arise in any proceeding at law or equity, pending before there rved to ſº.
supreme court in any county, the Judges thereof may reserve..... * *
the same, and all other questions as to which the judges may

be divided in opinion, shall, on motion of either party or his
counsel, be reserved for decision, at the term of the court in
bank, next thereafter, to be holden as aforesaid.
Sec. 5. That the said court in bank shall have power to continuance.

continue any question or matter reserved as aſoresaid, when-" " "
ever, in their opinion, such continuance ought to be granted.
Sec. 6. That whenever a question shall be reserved as afore-Arrºr, as ºr

"º
transmitted to the judges, at their session in Columbus: but al"

said, the arguments of counsel may he made in writing, and

such court may, nevertheless, require oral arguments of aii

questions reserved as aforesaid, in cases where counsel are pre º' º
sent, and in attendance upon the court; and the court shall ºn

hear oral arguments, in all cases where the parties or their
counsel shall request it.
Sec. 7. That whenever the court shall hear oral arguments, to sit in court

the judges shall sit in the court house, in the town of Colum ... “
bus.

Sec. 8. That the court in bank shall cause its decisions, in nº is .
each case, to be reduced to writing, and transmitted to the transmitted to
clerk of the supreme court of the county in which such ques."....".
tion was reserved; who shall enter the same on the journal of veg
the said court: and such proceedings shall thereupon be had,
as if such decision had been made in the said county.

Sec. 9. That the said court in bank shall have power to pre-" "...".
scribe rules for the reservation of all questions, and loi ule,...i."
transmitting of cases from the supreme court in the respective
counties, to the court hereby established; and all such other
rules as may be necessary and proper to regulate its practice.
Sec. 10. That the said court shall appoint a reporter, whose

... " " term of service shall expire every five years, whºse duty it
iſis term of *r-shall be to attend the session of the said court, and to reportits

* * * decisions, together with such other important decisions as he
Arguments

o

may be directed to report, and to cause the same to be publish
ed, as soon as may be conveniently done, after each term of the
said court: Provided, That no arguments of counsel shall be

... pl. published with said reports, other than a brief containing a re.

*** * * ſerence to the points made, and authorities cited and relied on

“” “by such counsel, unless specially directed by the court.
Sec. 11. That the reporter shall receive for his services,

.* * **annually, a sum not exceeding three hundred dollars; to be
allowed and certified by said judges, and paid out of the State
treasury, on the order of the auditor of State.

…, Sec. 12. That the secretary of State shall subscribe, on tº
... "..."), half of the State, for one hundred copies of said reports, sub
cºpies of report"ject to the disposal of the General Assembly: Provided, That
º * * the subscription price to the State shall not exceed one cent

for each page, of the size of Johnson's New York Term Re
ports.

Sec. 13. That the said court shall have power, and they are

º ... ... hereby ºthorized, to appoint a clerk and a crier, whenever
triº

they shall deem it necessary.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State ºf
lº.ºrors ºn, Ohio, That one hundred and eight judicious persons, having

"..., ... the qualifications of electors, shall be annually selected in each
county, to serve as grand and petit jurors the ensuing year.

sº..., , Sec. 2. That the clerks of the courts of common pleas, in
... "... their respective counties, shall, on the first Monday of Septem:
º, º: her next, and on the first Mondav of September annually
...'..."... thereaſter, cause the proportion of jurors to be
ºf Fentºmber

ascertained

from the number of white male inhabitants of the age of twen:

ty-one years, in their respective townships; and shall make, in
writing, a statement of the number of jurors apportioned tº
each township, and shall deliver the same to the sheriff; and the sheriff, at the time he gives public notice of the general
election to be holden on the second Tuesday of October, shall Notice to trus,

insert a clause in his notification, to be set up at the place of... ." "
holding the election, in the several townships of his county,
giving the trustees notice of the number of persons to be re
turned as jurors from such township.
Sec. 3. That the trustees of each township shall, on the Trustees of

second Tuesday of October next, and on the second Tuesday . º :
of October annually thereafter, select, of good, judicious per-cond Tuesday of

sons, having the qualifications of electors, their apportionment *
of persons to be returned as jurors; and shall make a list there
of and deliver the same to the trustea or judge of election,
whose duty it shall be to return to said clerk of the court the
poll book of the election to be holden on said second Tuesday
of October: and it shall be the duty of the trustee or judge of List to be return,
election, (as the case may be) to deliver said list of Jurors to *"...
the said clerk of the court, at the same time he shall return said with poll too:
poll book to said clerk of the court.

Sec. 4. That the respective clerks of the courts of common Names of jurors

pleas, shall write the names of the persons so selected upon'." """
separate pieces of paper, and put them into a box to be by
him provided at the expense of i. county; and the said clerk

shall, at least thirty days previous to the sitting of the said ...".
court of common pleas in said county, in the presence of the jºy ºr º:

sheriff of said county, (the sheriff having first shook the ple"
box so as to mix the ballots on which the names are writ

ten,) shall proceed to draw twenty-seven ballots; the first
fifteen of whom shall be summoned as grand jurors, and the re
maining twelve shall be summoned as petit jurors: and the said Venire

clerk shall forthwith issue a venire facias to the sheriff, com

to issue

inanding him to summon the persons whose names were drawn
as aforesaid, to attend as jurors at the seat of justice of said
county, on the first day of the next term of the court of common
pleas to be holden therein, at ten o'elock, A. M.
Sec. 5. That the said clerk shall in like manner, at least time and mau.
thirty days previous to the sitting of the supreme court in any #". º:
county, in the presence of the sheriff of said county, as hereto-conſt
fore directed, draw out of the box in which are contained the
names of the persons selected as aforesaid, twelve persons, and

shall forthwith deposit in the office of the clerk of the supreme
court
of said county,
list of the names
thenames
clerk º
clerk toof issue
supreme
of
the supreme
court,aimmediately
upon so
thedrawn;
receiptand
of the
ve.
so deposited, shall issue a venire facias to the sheriff, command
ing him to summons the persons drawn as aforesaid, to 'attend

as jurors at the seat of justice of said county, on the first day

\

of the supreme court next to be holden therein.

Sec. 6. That the sheriff in either case, receiving such venire serºcaryana,
facias, shall, at least ten days before the sitting of said court,
summon such persons by reading the same in their presence, or
leaving at their usual place of abode, a note or memo randum it: the words following, to wit: I am commanded to summon you
, to appear before the court of common pleas, or su
preme court, (as the case may be) to be holden in
; On
the
day of
next, to serve as a grand or petit juror,
(as the case may be;) and shall indorse on the venire facias the

names of the jurors, and the time when summoned, and return
the same to the clerk of said court, on the first day of its ses:
Slon.

Sec. 7. That in the county of Hamilton, there shall be eigh
*"...!!!";
ty-four
iudicious pe
persons havingg the qqualifications of electors,
Hamilton")
our Ju

jor

ºunty, and twº annually selected to serve as petit jurors: and the clerk of the

`..., c.'... court of common pleas shall, at the times, and in the manner
above directed, draw two juries for each term, of said court;

term .

one of which juries shall be summoned to attend on the first
day of the term, and the other on the first day of the third week
of the term, to serve respectively as jurors in said court.

Sec. 8. That if any person, selected a juror as aforesaid,
lºº shall die, or remove out of the township, before the time of

move. his nanner...'..." drawing for jurymen of any court, where such person's name
shall be drawn out, it shall be thrown aside and another name

taken in lieu thereoſ; and if, by reason of sickness or absence

out of the county, before receiving such summons, or other

'...'

sufficient excuse accepted by the court, any juror, summoned
as aforesaid, shall not serve at the court to which he is sum:

from serving, his moned, his name shall be returned to the box and shall

... ."" remain there until drawn out at some at some subsequent
drawing for jurors, when he shall serve, if no disability
prevent: and at every annual selection for jurors, if there

be any name undrawn in the box, the said trustees shall
select so many persons to serve as jurors as will make up the
number to be selected in each township; and in case there
should not, by reason of challenge or otherwise, be a sufficient

nº... ºd number of jurors present to make up the pannel, the sheriff
may he illed shall summon a sufficient number of talesmen to make up the
“"“” deficient number: and at the close of any court, the names of
all such persons as shall have served on the jury at that term,
shall be taken out of the box and destroyed.
*

Sec. 9. That when a sufficient number of grand jurors shall

..","..." not appear, who shall have been drawn and summoned agree.
ied with tales.ably
act,sobefore
cither
their stated
term;
or, iftoit this
should
happen
thatofallthethecourts
grandat jurors,
summoned
tricii

as aforesaid, shall fail to attend, it shall, and may be lawſul for
the court, in either case, to order the sheriff, or other officer,
to summon from among the bystanders, or neighboring citizens,
so many good and lawful meu as are necessary to form or com

plete the pannel of the grand jury.
Sec. 10. That any grand juror may be discharged by the
grand urn, may court for misbehavior, or on the challenge of the prosecuting
*** ºr attorney in behalf of the State, on good cause shown; and if

"“” “any person, not having the qualifications herein before specified, shall be impanneled as a grand or petit juror, it shall be on challenge of

a good cause of challenge to such juror, who shall be discharg. ..." "
ed on the same being verified according to law, or on his own
oath or affirmation in support thereof.

Sec. 11. That an oath or affirmation, in the following words,
shall be administered to the foreman of the grand jury: “Sav- form of oath to
ing yourself and fellow jurors, you, as foreman of this grand in-fºreman orgrau"

quest, shall diligently inquire, and true presentment make, of all"
such matters and things as shall be given you in charge, or
otherwise come to your knowledge, touching the present ser
vice: the counsel of the State, your own and your fellows, you
shall keep secret unless called on in a court of justice to make

disclosures: you shall present no person through malice, hat
red, or ill will; nor shall you leave any person unpresented

through fear, favor, or affection, or for any reward or hope
thereof; but in all your presentments, you shall present the

truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, according to
the best of your skill and understanding.”
Sec. 12. That the following oath or affirmation shall be ad

ministered to the other grand jurors: “The same oath which A. Form or oath .

B. your foreman, hath now taken before you on his part, you other grand jº
and each of you shall well and truly observe, and keep on your"
respective parts.” The said tiſteen persons summoned. and
sworn or affirmed as aforesaid, shall be a grand jury, who shall Duty

of

inquire of, and present all murders, felonies and other crimes.’ ” “
and misdemeanors whatever, committed within the limits of the

county, in and for which they are impanneled and sworn or aſ cºn. ...,
firmed: Provided, That it shall require twelve of said jurors to ja;
#. before any bill of indictment or presentment shall be to and a bul
ound.

Sec. 13. That in case of sickness, death, discharge, or when grand ſº

non-attendance of any grand jurors, after he or they shall be...”.
sworn or affirmed, it shall be lawful for the court at their dis-in his stead

cretion, to cause another or others to be sworn or affirmed, in
his or their stead.

Sec. 14. That if there shall be impanneled for the trial of causes for which

any cause, any petit juror who shali have been convicted of....” "
any crime, which by law renders him disqualified to serve on
a jury; or who has been arbitrator on either side, relating to
the same controversy; or who has an interest in the cause; or

who has an action depending between him and the party; or
who has formerly been a juror in the same cause; or who is
the party's master, servant, counsellor, steward, or attorney;
or who is subpoened in the cause as a witness; or who is akin

to either party; he may be challenged for such causes: in eith
er of which cases the same shall be considered as a principal

challenge, and the validity thereof be tried by the court; and
any petit juror who shall be returned upon the trial of any of
the causes herein before specified, against whom no principal

cause ofchallenge can be alledged, may nevertheless he challenged on suspicion of prejudice against, or partiality for, either par
ty; or for want of a competent knowledge of the English lan
Twº may be guage, or any other cause that may render him at the time an

... "..., unsuitable juror; and the validity of such challenge shall be
each party

determined by the court, and each party may peremptorily
challenge two jurors.
Sec. 15. That every prosecuting attorney, and every defend

*:::"...ant upon the trial of an indictment, may challenge peremp
indictment.

torily two of the pannel; and if any person prosecuting on be
half of the State, shall in behalf of the State, challenge any
Petit juror, except as aforesaid, he shall immediately assign
the cause of such challenge, and the truth thereof shall be in
quired into, and decided upon in the same manner as the chal
lenge of other persons is by law inquired into and decided.

re...au... , Sec. 16. That when a grand or petit jury shall be selected,
ray mayºnal drawn, or summoned contrary to the provisions of this act; or
where the sheriff, or other officer, in executing the writ of ve

lenged

nire facias to him directed, shall not have proceeded as herein
before prescribed, then, and in either of those cases, the whole

array of the jury may be challenged and set aside, and a new
venire facias be awarded, returnable forthwith, in the same

manner as if the whole number of grand or petit jurors had
failed to attend the court, or had been challenged for cause
and set aside by the court.

when sheriff is

Sec. 17. That when the sheriff is interested in any cause

ºt. which now is or hereafter may be pending, in either the su
º

preme court or court of common pleas, the party in interest op

posed to that of the sheriff may apply to the court, who, on
such application, shall direct a special venire facias to the cor
oner of the county, commanding him to summon a jury, having
the qualifications herein before pointed out, to try such cause;
and where both the sheriff and coroner are interested as afore

W.*... said, or in case of the death, resignation, or absence from the
to ºn to nº county, of both the sheriff and coroner, then, and in either of

:* those cases, the venire facias or other process may be directed
to such discreet, disinterested person as the court may name.
In what case, a Sec. 18. That when by reason of any pressure of business, the
jury of by stand court shall deem it necessary to have two petit juries; or when,

:...” “ ” by reason of absence, sickness, challenge or otherwise, there be
none remaining of the petit jurors selected and summoned as
herein before provided, then, and in either of those cases, the
supreme court and courts of common pleas, respectively, may
order the sheriff or other officer, to return a jury of by-standers,
or neighboring citizens, having the qualifications as aforesaid.
jury may have

Sec. 19. That it shall be lawful for the supreme court or

*** court of common pleas, in which any action is or shall be de
pending, or where it shall appear to the court to be proper or
necessary that the jurors who are to try the issue in said action
should have a view of the messuages, lands, or place in ques
tion, in order to their better understanding the evidence that may
be givenoronhabeas
the trial
of such
issue, to order
a special
writ Distringas
of
distringas,
corpora
juratorum,
to issue,
by which
º thattopuris
the sheriff or other officer to whom the same shall be directed,
shall be commanded to have six or more of the first twelve

jurors named in the pannel to which such writ is annexed,
at the place in question, who, then and there, shall have the
matters in question shown to them by the two persons named
in said writ, to be appointed by the court; and the sheriff or

°ther officer who is to execute said writ, shall, by a special re-vº.
turn on the same, certify under his hand that the view hath Nº
been made according to the command of said writ.
Sec. 20. That the expenses of taking the said view shall be come of view tº

taxed in the bill of costs, and that no evidence shall be given teamediabilist

on either side at the time of taking thereof: Provided always,”
That in case no view shall be had, or if a view shall be had by provia
any of said jurors, whether they shall happen to be any of
the six or more of the twelve jurors who shall first be na
med in said writ, or not, yet the said trial shall proceed; and
no objection shall be made on either side for want of a view,
or for that it was not had by any particular number of the ju
rors named in said writ, or for want of a proper return to said
writ.

Sec. 21. That it shall be lawful for the supreme court and

courts of common pleas, respectively, on motion on behalf of “”
the State, or of any prosecutor or defendant, in any indictment,
or of any
demandant, avowant, tenant or defendant,
in any action or suit depending, or to be depending, before

i.

them, and triable by a jury of twelve men, to order a jury to
be struck for the trial thereof; but this provision shall not
extend to any indictment for any offense where the party is
entitled to challenge peremptorily, or without cause shown,
more than two.

Sec. 22. That whenever a struck jury shall be ordered by

the supreme court or court of commonpleas, the party applying: "...,"
for such struck jury shall give eight days’ previous notice to
the opposite party, and to the clerk of said court, of the time
of striking such jury; at which time the clerk of said court
shall attend at his office, and shall, in the presence of the par
ties, or such of them as shall attend for that purpose, select
from the number of persons qualified to serve as jurors within

the county, forty such persons as he shall think most indiffer
ent between the parties, and best qualified to try such cause:
and then the party applying, his agent or attorney, shall first
strike one of the names; and then the opposite party, his agent
or attorney, another; and so alternately, until each shall have
struck out twelve: but if such
party shall not attend
to such striking, or any person on his behalf, then the said clerk
shall strike for the party not attending; and when each shall

º:

have struck out twelve as aforesaid, the clerk of said court shall make a fair copy of the names of the remaining sixteen
persons, and certify the saine, under his hand, to be the list of

jurors struck as aforesaid, for the trial of such cause or issue;
List of struck which list shall be delivered to the sheriff or other officer, toge

*...* ther with the venire, facias: and such sheriff or other officer,
shall thereupon annex the same list to such venire, and summon
them according to the command of said writ; and upon the

trial of the said cause, the jury so struck shall be called as they
stand upon the pannel; and the first twelve of them who shall
appear, and are not challenged, or shall be found duly qualified
and indifferent, shall be the jury, and sworn to try said cause.
when the clerº Sec. 23. That if the clerk of such court shall be interested
tº interested, in the cause, or related to either of the parties; or if it shall

... appear probable to the court that he is not indifferent between
* jury

them; then, in every such case, the court shall nominate two

proper persons who are indifferent between the parties, to
strike the jury, who shall do and perform every thing required
Jury to be struck to be done by such clerk, relating to the striking of such jury:

*...* *and, in all cases, the day appointed for striking such jury, shall
be at least thirty days previous to the sitting of the court.

c. …, Sec. 24. That the party applying fºr such struck jury, shall
... ." ... pay the fees for striking the same, and one dollar per day for
paid

each juror so attending; and shall not have any allowance
therefore in the taxation of costs, unless the court shall be of

opinion that the cause required such special jury; in which

case, the extraordinary expense shall be taxed in the bill of
costs.

Jury may give

Sec. 25. That no jury shall, in any case, be compelled to

special verdict give in a general verdict, so that they find a special verdict,
and show the truth of the fact, and require the aid of the court;

but if of their own will they give a general verdict, the same
shall be received.

No compensa. Sec. 26. That the sheriff and trustees, or judges of election,
tion for duties (as the case may be) shall not receive any compensation for the

" " “performance of the duties required by the provisions of this act,
other than what are now allowed by law for notifying and at
tending elections, and making returns thereof.
Penalty for me.

Sec. 27. That iſ either of the officers named in this act,

...}... shall neglect or refuse to perform any of the duties herein re
der this act
quired, according to the true intent and meaning hereof, he
shall, on conviction thereof before any court of competent ju
risdiction, be fined in a sum not exceeding fifty dollars; which
shall be collected as other fines are collected, and paid into the
county treasury.
Acts repealed

Sec. 28. That the act relating to juries, passed January
ninth, eighteen hundred and twenty-four, and the act amenda
tory thereto, entitled “An act relating to juries.” passed Fe.
bruary eleventh, eighteen hundred and twenty-eight, be, and
they are hereby, repealed.
This act shall take effect, and be in force, from and after
the first day of June next.

Sec. 1. Be?, ºcted by the General Assembly if the Stale *ſºn,
Ohio, That lands, tenements,

go'A's and chattels, shall be sub- º ‘....:”;

ject
to the and
payment
ofherºsiaſtºr
debts; and shall
be liable
taken
in debts
ºr payment of
execution
sold, as
provided,
t, to be
*
.
Sec. 2. That the
landsº

emºints
*

º debtº shall be
Li

ien

f

of

judg

bouad for the satisfaction of any judgment against suci, debtor, men's on anºn,
from the first day of the term at which judgment soail be ren: “”
dered, in all cases where such land lies within the county
where the judgment is entered; and all other lands, as well as
goods and chattels, of the debtor, shall be bound from the time
they shall be seized in execution.
Sec. 3. That the writ of fieri tacias issuing from any court command of
of record in this State, shall command the officer to whom it is fieri facias

directed, that of the goods and chattels of the debtor he cause
to be made the money specified in the writ; and, for want of
goods and chattels, he cause the same to be made of the lands
and tenements of the debtor: and the exact amount of the

*".

debt, damages, and costs, for which the judgment is entered,... ..."
shall be indorsed on the execution.

Sec. 4. That when two or more writs of execution against In what cases no

the same debtor, shall be sued out during the term in which preference hº
judgment
was
rendered,
within ten
daysthe
thereafter,
and ecutions
... " “
when two or
more
writs of or
execution
against
same debtor,

shall be delivered to the officer on the same day, no preference
shall be given to either of such writs; but if a sufficient sum of
money is not made to satisfy all executions, the amount made
shall be distributed to the several creditors in proportion to

the amount of their respective demands: in all other cases, the
writ of execution first delivered to the officer, shall be first sa- ** º:

tisfied; and it shall be the duty of the officer to indorse on gºvered his
every writ of execution, the time when he received the same:*
Provided, That nothing herein contained, shall be so construed Proviso as to lien
as to affect any preferable lien, which one or more of the judg on lands
ments, on which such execution issued, may have, on the lands
of the judgment debtor.
Sec. 5. That the officer to whom a writ of execution is deli- goods and chat.

vered, shall proceed immediately to levy the same upon the tels to be firs'
goods and chattels of the debtor; but if no goods and chattels

... can be found, the officer shall indorse on the writ of execution,
i. i.v.a. "“no goods,” and forthwith levy the writ of execution upon the
lands and tenements of the debtor, which may be liable, under

this act, to satisfy the judgment upon which the writ of execu
tion issued.

Sec. 6. That if the officer, by virtue of any writ of fieri fa
-when goods and cias, issued from any court of record in this State, shall levy

.."... the same on any goods and chattels claimed by any person other

by any person than the defendant, it shall be the duty of said .#. forthwith

... "...to give notice in writing to some justice of the peace of the
to proceed

county, in which shall be set forth the names of the plaintifff
and defendant, together with the name of the glaimant; and,
at the same time, he shall furnish the said justice of the peace

with a schedule of the property claimed: and it shall be the
duty of such justice of the peace, immediately upon the re
ceipt of such notice and sch?dules to make an entry of the

same on his dockét, and issué a writ of venire facias or sum
mons, directed to the sheriff or any constable of the county,
commanding him to summon five disinterested men, having the
qualifications of electors, who shall be named in said venire

}.

facias, or summons, to appear before him the said
at the
time and place therein mentioned, which time shall not be more
than three days after the date of said writ, to try and deter
mine the right of the claimant to the property in controversy:
and it shall be the duty of the claimant to give two days' notice
in writing, to the plaintifff, or other party, for whose benefit
such execution was issued and levied as aforesaid, his agent or
attorney, if within the county, of the time and place of such
trial; and he shall, moreover, prove, to the satisfaction of said
that such notice was given, or that the same could not
e given by reason of the absence of the party, his agent or

{..".

attorney, as aforesaid.
6ath of jury

Sec. 7. That the jury summoned as aforesaid, shall be sworn
or affirmed, to try and determine the right of the claimant to
the property in controversy, and a true verdict to give, accord
ing to evidence; and if the said jury shall find the right to said
goods and chattels, or any part thereof, to be in the claimant,

poona.m. the said justice shall render judgment, upon such finding of the
remieri. Judg.jury, for the claimant, that he recover his costs against the

.." " "plaintifff in execution, or other party to the same, for whose
benefit such execution issued as aforesaid, and also that he

have restitution of said goods and chattels, or any part thereof,
according to the finding of the jury as aſoresaid: but if the
right of said goods and chattels, and every part thereof, shall
not be vested in the claimant, according to the finding of said
jury, then the said justice shall render judgment on such find
ing, in favor of the plaintifff in execution, or other party, for
whose benefit the same was issued and levied as aforesaid

against said claimant, for costs, and award execution thereon: and it shall and may be lawful for said justice of the peace, in
the taxation of costs accruing by reason of such claim and trial

as aforesaid, to allow each juror summoned and sworn as afore
said, the sum of fifty cents; and for the sheriff, constable, or
other officer and witnesses, and for himself, he shall tax such fees Fees of officer,

as are allowed by law to each respectively, for like service ren- “in ºther cases
dered in other cases: Provided, That such judgment for the . .

claimant as aforesaid, shall be a justification to the officer in .
returning “nulla bona” to the writ of execution, by virtue ofcer .
which the levy had been made as to such part of the goods and
chattels as were found to belong to such claimant.

Sec. 8. That in all cases when a sheriff, coroner or other when good, le.
officer, shall, by virtue of an execution, levy upon any goods vied ºn remain

and chattels which shall remain upon his hands unsold, for want."...".
of bidders, for the want of time to advertise and sell, or any for their delivery

other reasonable cause, the sheriff, coroner or other officer may,
for his own security, take of the defendant a bond, with secu
rity, in such sum as he may deem sufficient, conditioned that
the said property shall be delivered to the sheriff, coroner or
other officer, holding an execution for the sale of the same, at
the time and place appointed by said officer, either by notice
given in writing to said defendant in execution, or by advertise
ment published in a newspaper printed in the county, naming
therein the day and place of sale; but iſ the defendant shall . . .

fail to deliver the goods and chattels at the time and place men-º..."...",".
tioned in the notice to him given, or pay to the officer holding forfeiture of the
the execution the full value of said goods and chattels, or the *
amount of said debt and costs, the condition of the said bond

given as aforesaid, shall be considered as broken, and may be
proceeded on as in other cases.
Sec. 9. That the officer who levies upon goods and chattels

by virtue of any execution issued by any court of record, before...", º:
he proceeds to sell the same, shall cause public notice to be previous to the

given of the time and place of sale, for at least ten days before...”
the day of sale; which notice shall be given by advertisement
published in some newspaper printed in the county, or in case
no newspaper be printed therein, by setting up advertisements
in five public places in the county; two of which advertise

ments shall be put up in the township where the sale is to be held: when gºod, a
and where goods and chattels levied upon, cannot be sold for main unsold, an

want of bidders, the officer making return that goods and chat-...".
tels remain unsold for want of bidders, shall annex to the exe-win the execu.

cution a true and perfect inventory of such goods and chattels;. º “na.
and the plaintifff in such execution, may thereupon sue out his
writ of venditioni exponas: but suc', goods and cattels shall
not be sold, unless the time and place of sale be advertised, as
hereinbefore provided.
Sec. 10. That if execution be levied upon lands and tene-Lands to be ap
ments,
officer levying
such execution
shall
call an inquest
of threethe
disinterested
freeholders,
who shall
be resident
within pººl
ºr.lºº
thre: the county where the lands taken in execution are situate, and

administer to them an oath or athrmation, impartially to ap
praise the estate so levied on; and the said freeholders shall
return to the said officer, under their hands and seals, an esti

mate of the real value in money, o said estate, upon actual
Copy of apview of the premises, ſorthwith alter such view.
Sec. 11. That the officer receiving such return, shall forth

praisement to be with deposit a copy thereof with the clerk of the court from

.." "" which such writ issued, and immediately advertise and sell
such real estate, agreeably to the provisions of this act.

ºn or nº...” “ That if upon such return as aforesaid, it shall ap:
... ruij pear by the inquisition, that two thirds of the appraised value of
such lands and tenements so levied upon, is sufficient to satisſy
the execution, with costs, the judgment on which such execution
issued shall not operate as a lien on the residue of the debtor's
estate, to the prejudice of any other bona-fide judgment cre.
Lands not to be ditor: Provided, That no tract of land shall be º for less than

:... two thirds of the appraised and returned value of the inquest;
praisement

And provided also, That nothing in this section contained, shall

... ." in any wise extend to affect the sale of lands by the State, for
any debt or taxes due thereto; but all lands in this State, the

property of individuals who may be indebted to the State for
any debt or taxes, or in any other manner, except for loans

heretofore authorized by the Legislature, shall be sold without
valuation, for the discharge of such debt or taxes, agreeably
to the laws of this State, in such case made and provided.
Property of cer. : Sec. 13. That if the property of any clerk, sheriff, coroner,
.."..."...justice of the peace, constable, or any collector of State, coun

be sold without of,
ty, town
or township
tax, is,
shall
levied
on for,beorbyonthem,
account
valuation
any monies
that now
or be
may
hereafter
col.
lected or received in their official capacity, the property so
levied on shall be sold without valuation, to the highest bidder,
any thing in this act to the contrary notwithstanding.
whº won, or Sec. 14. That lands and ten ments taken in execution, shall
the sale of lands not be sold until the officer cause public notice of the time and

... " "place of sale to be given, for at least thirty days before the day
of sale, by advertisement in some newspaper printed in the

county, or in case no newspaper be printed in the county, then
in some newspaper in general circulation therein, and by put

ting up an advertisement upon the court house door, and in five
other public places in the county, two of which shall be put up

in the township where such lands and tenements lie; and all
sales made without such advertisement, shall be 'set aside by
the court to which the execution is returnable, on motion.

rº...ºns, or . Sec. 15. That if the court to which any writ of execution
the officer to be shall be returned by the off cer, for the satisfaction of which any

º: "lands and tenements may have been sold, shall. after having
commoniº, tº carefully examined the proceedings of such officer, he satisfied
*""

that the sale has in all respects been made in conformity to the
provisions of this act, they shall direct their clerk to make an
entry thereof on the journal, that the court are satisfied of the
legality of such sale, and an order that the said olicer make to
the purchaser a deed for such lands and tenements; and the officer may re.
officer, on making such sale, may retain the purchase money "...ºu.”

in his hands until the court saall have examined his proceed-..." "
ings as aforesaid, when he shall pay the same over to the per
son entitled thereto, agreeably to the order of the court.
Sec. 16. That the sheriff or other officer, who, by such writ
or writs of execution, shall sell the said lands and tenements, so

levied upon, or any part thereof, shall make to the purchaser sheriff to make
or purchasers thereof, as good and sufficient a deed of convey- deed for land

ance, for the lands and tenements so sold, as the person or per-j-" “
sons against whom such writ or writs of execution were issued,
might or could have made for the same, at, or any time after,

the said lands became liable to the said judgment; which deed era or as
shall be prima facie evidence of the legality of such sale, and deed
the proceedings therein, until the contrary be proved, and shall
vest in the purchaser, as good and as perfect an estate, in the

premises therein mentioned, as was vested in the party, at, or
after the time when said lands and tenements became liable to

the satisfaction of said judgment: and the said deed of convey
ance to be made by the sheriff or other officer, shall recite Recitals in the
the execution or executions, or the substance thereof, and the deed
names of the parties, the kind of action, the amount and date

of term of rendition of each judgment, by virtue whereof, the
said land and tenements were sold as aforesaid; and shall be

acknowledged or proved and recorded, as is, or may be provi
ded by law, to perfect the conveyance of real estate in other
cases.

Sec. 17. That the officer who levies upon goods and chattels,
or lands and tenements, or who is charged with the duty of
selling the land, by virtue of any writ of execution issued from
a court of record in this State, before he proceeds to give no
tice of the sale thereof, by advertisement published in any
newspaper, according to the preceding sections of this act,

may refuse to publish a notice as aforesaid, until the party for on. may

re.

whose benefit such execution issued, his agent or attorney, nº to"...m.

shall
advancethe
to such
officer,
so muchfor
money
as will be
sufficient
...".
".
ſees of
the printer,
publishing
such
notice..."

to

as aforesaid.

Sec. 18. That all sales of lands or tenements, by virtue of sales of land to
this act, shall be held at the court house, in the county in which tº held at the

such lands and tenements are situated: Provided, That no sher.””
iff, or other officer conducting the sale of property, either per-sherim, and ar.

•onal or real, nor any appraiser of such property, shall either.....”
directly or indirectly purchase the same; and every purchase""
so made, shall be considered fraudulent and void.
Sec. 19. That in all cases where two or more executions

shall be put into the hands of any sheriff or other officer, and it creditors may

shall be necessary to levy on real estate, to satisfy the same, º:
rate parcels
real estate

“agreeably to the provisions of this act, and either of the judg
ment creditors in whose favor one or more of said executions

is issued, shall require of the sheriff or other officer, to make a
separate levy to satisfy his execution or executions, it shall be

the duty of the sheriff or other o ficer, to levy said executions,
or so many thereof, as may be required, on separate parcels of
the real property of the judgment debtor or debtors; giving to
the officer making the levy on behalf of the creditor, whose
execution may by this act be entitled to a preference, the
choice of such part of the real property of the judgment debtor
or debtors, as will be subicient, at two thirds of the appraised
value, to satisfy the same: and in all cases where two or more

executions, which, by the provisions of this act, are entitled to
no preference over each other, are put into the hands of the
same officer, and such ohcer may be required to levy the same
paty of the oth. on real propertv, it shall be the duty of the sheriff or other offi:

...” cer, when so required, to levy the same on separate parcels

cer it
such sales

of

the real property of the judgment debtor or debtors, when, in
the opinion of the appraisers, the same may be divided without

material injury; and if the real property of said debtors will
not be suficient, at two thirds of its appraised value, to satisfy
all the executions chargeable thereon, such part of said real
property, shall be levied on to satisfy each execution, as will
bear the same proportion in value to the whole of said real pro

pertv. as the amount due on the execution, bears to the amount
of all the executions chargeable thereon, as near as may be,
according to the value of each separate parcel of said real pro

perty, as assessed by the freeholders, agreeably to the preced
ing sections of this act.
of

Sec. 20. That if the term of service of the sheriff or other

Successors

sherit... may officer, who hath made, or shall hereaſter make, sale of any

and tenements, by virtue of an execution against the
same, shall expire; or if the sheriff or other officer, shall be
absent, or be rendered unable, by death or otherwise, to make

sold for
by lands
lands
Inake doeds
predecessor

a deed of convevance for the same; it shall be lawful for any

succeeding sheriff or other officer, on receiving a certificate
from the court from which execution issued for the sale of

the said lands and tenements, signed by the clerk, by order of
said court, setting forth that sufficient proof hath been made to
said court, that such sale was fairly and legally made; and, on
tender of the purchase money, or if the purchase money, or
any part thereof, he paid, then, on proof of such payment and
tender of the balance, if any there be, to sign, seal and deliver
to the said purchaser or purchasers, or his or their legal rep
resentatives, a deed of conveyance of the said land and tene.
ments so sold; which deed sha'] be as good and v lid in law,
and have the same effect, as if the sheriff or other officer, who
made the sale, had executed the same.

Sec. 21. That if on any sale made as aforesaid, there shall

remain an overplus of money in the hands of the sheriff or other officer,
aftercosts,
satisfying
thesaid
writsheriff
or writs
of execution,
withpay
in-ºverplus
terest and
then the
or other
officer, shall
:.." money
to de
over to the defendant in execution, or his legal representative,
such overplus, on demand.
Sec. 22. That if any judgment or judgments, in satisfaction
of which any lands or tenements belonging to the party, hath or Reversal of judg.

shall be sold, shall at any time thereafter be reversed, such re-º','!'...
versal shall not affect or defeat the title to the purchaser or ºrcher
purchasers; but, in such case, restitution shall be made of the
monies, by the judgment creditor, for which such lands or ten

ements were sold, with lawful interest from the day of sale.

Sec. 23. That no judgment heretofore rendered, or which mºre.
hereafter may be rendered, on which execution shall not have ºn..."

next
been after
takenthe
out rendition
and levied,
of such
beforejudgment,
the expiration
shall operate
of one year...",".
as a .
on

lien on the estate of any debtor, to the prejudice of any other
bona fide judgment creditor; but in all cases where judgment exceptions
has been, or may be, rendered in the supreme court, and a spe
cial mandate awarded to the court of common pleas, to carry
the same into execution, the lien of the judgment creditor shall
continue for one year after the first day of the term of the court
of common pleas, to which such mandate may be directed: Pro
vided. That nothing in this section contained, shall be so con

strued as to defeat the lien of any judgment creditor, who shall
fail to take out execution and cause a levy to be made as herein
provided, when such failure shall be occasioned by appeal, writ

of error, injunction or by a vacancy in the office of sheriff and cor
oner, or the inability of such officer, until one year after such dis

ability shall be removed; and in all cases where real estate has New appraise.
been, or may hereafter be, taken on execution and appraised, ment, when ai.

and twice advertised and offered for sale, and shall remain un"
sold for want of bidders, it shall be the duty of the court from

which such execution issued, on motion of the plaintifff, to set
aside such appraisement, and order a new appraisement to be
made, or to set aside such levy and appraisement, and award a
new execution to issue, as the case may require.

Sec. 24. That the sheriff or other officer, to whom any writ Executions
of execution shall be directed, shall return such writ to the ...” “”
court to which the same is returnable, on or before the second

day of the term to which such writ is made returnable: Provi-Proviso as to

ded, That all executions issued by the court of common pleas"
for the county of Hamilton, within twenty days prior to the com
mencement of any term, may be returned on or before the third
Monday of said term.

Sec. 25. That in all cases where a capias ad satisfaciendum ca sa issued to
may issue from the court of common pleas, or supreme court, another cºunty,

in any county in this State, directed to the sheriff, (or other"“
officer discharging the duties of sheriff) in any other county
within this State, the sheriff or other officer receiving such
writ, shall serve the same on the body of the defendant or defendants named therein, or such of them as may be found in
his county, and convey him or them so taken forthwith to the
Jail of the county from whence the writ issued; for which he

shall be entitled to the fees that are allowed by law.
Sec. 26. That in all cases where judgment is rendered in any
jincipal court of record within this State, upon any bond, sealed bill,
*"...ety, how promissory
or otherorinstrument
writing,held
in which
two or
entered
more personsnote,
are jointly,
jointly andofseverally
and bound,
Judgment

and it shall be made to appear to the court by parole or other
testimony, that one or more of said persons so bound, signed

the same as security or bail, for his or their co-defendant, it shall
be the duty of the clerk of said court, in recording the judg
ment thereon, to certify which of the defendants is principal
debtor, and which are sureties or bail; and the clerk of the

court aforesaid, in issuing execution on any such judgment,
shall issue execution commanding the sheriff or other officer to
cause the money specified in the writ to be made of the goods
and chattels, lands and tenements, of the principal debtor; but

for want of such sufficient property of the principal debtor,
whereof to make the same, then that he cause the same to be
made of the goods and chattels, lands and tenements of the se

‘.... curity or bail; and in all cases, the property, both personal and

"... º ºl. yº. ... court,
*** *.*.."?
shall besurety
exhausted,
any
of the
propert
*
* *.ſi.
or bailbefore
shall be
iº
in personal
...or real property
---- Sec. 27. That in all cases where judgment shall be render

... ed in the supreme court, against the appellant, or an injunction
to he sued, tin dissolved in the court of common pleas or supreme court, the

:..."...nº successful party shall, before he brings suit upon the appeal [or]
returnº" ºn injunction bond, issue execution against the principal debtor;
*"**
and if, by the return upon the execution, it shall appear that
the principal debtor has not goods and chattels, lands and tene
ments, sufficient to satisfy the same, the successful party may
then commence suit upon the appeal or injunction bond, and
take judgment for the penalty thereof; which judgment shall
be discharged by the payment of the original judgment or de
cree, with interest and costs, together with costs of suit on the
appeal or injunction bond.
Sec. 28. That each freeholder summoned to appraise real

*** *estate under the provisions of this act, shall be allowed, and
receive for his services, the sum of fifty cents, for each day he
may be engaged in the discharge of the duties enjoined by this
act; to be collected on the execution, by virtue of which the
property appraised was levied on, if claimed at the time of
making the return of such appraisement: and when any free
penalty for nº holder, summoned as aforesaid, shall fail to appear at the time
!..." and place appointed by the officer, and discharge his duty as
appraiser, he shall, on complaint being made to any justice of
the peace of the township in whi. h such delinquent freeholder

resides, forfeit and pay the sum of fiſty cents for every such neglect, unless he can render a reasonable excuse; which sum
shall be collected by said justice, and paid into the township How collected
treasury, for the use of the township.
Sec. 29. That each person who has a family, shall hold the what property
exenant

*/º:
property exempt from execution or sale, for any ...,
debt, damages, fine or amercement, to wit: One cow, twelve
-*

from

head of sheep, and the wool shorn from them: all the flax in
possession of such family, and the yarn or thread manufac
tured therefrom; two spinning wheels, two beds, bedstead and
bedding; the usual and common wearing apparel of such fami
ly; any quantity of cloth manufactured by such family, not
exceeding seventy-five yards; two pots or kettles, and any
other articles of household furniture which the debtor shall

select, not exceeding fifteen dollars in value, to be appraised
by two disinterested householders; and the tools of a mecha

nic, to be selected as above, not exceeding twenty-five dollars
in value, to be appraised as aforesaid: and the tools of a me
chanic necessarily employed in his occupation, shall not be

liable to execution, until his other personal property liable to
execution shall have been levied on and sold.

Sec. 30. That any person taken by a writ of capias ad satis-Casa discharge;
faciendum, shall be discharged by delivering or setting off to ºr:
the officer serving the same, real or personal property sufficient ty
to satisfy the judgment and costs for which such writ issued.

Sec. 31. That the party at whose suit any person may stand person dying in

charged in execution, for any debt or damages recovered, his, ºw

her, or their executors or administrators, may, after the death ...".
of the person charged, and dying, in execution, lawfully sue goods, &c
out and have a new execution against the goods and chatte's,

lands and tenements, or any of them, of the person so deceased,
in such manner and form, to all intents and purposes, as he,
she, or they, might have had by the laws of this State, had the
person never been taken and charged in execution: Provided play. , ,
always, That nothing in this section contained shall be so con-iam J. Lon.
strued as to authorize the party, his, her or their executors and *
administrators, at whose suit any person shall be in execution
and die, to have execution against the lands and tenements ºf
the person so dying, which shall, at any time after his or her
being taken and charged in execution, be by him or her sold,
bona fide, for the payment of just debts.
Sec. 32. That if any sheriff or other officer shall refuse or for what caus,
neglect to execute any writ of execution to him directed, and ... ."

which hath come to his hands; or shall neglect or refuse to..." "
sell any goods and chattels, lands and tenements; or shalſ ne
glect to call an inquest according to the foregoing provisions
of this act, and return a copy thereof forthwith to the clerk's
office; or shall neglect to return any writ or writs of execution
to him directed, to the court to which the same is or are re

turnable, on or before the second day, or on or before the third

Monday of the term, (as the case may be,) to which the same is or are made returnable; or shall neglect to return a just and
perfect inventory of all and singular the goods and chattels by
him taken in execution, unless the said sheriff or other officer

shall return, that he hath levied and made the amount of the

debt, damages and costs; or shall refuse or neglect, on demand,
to pay over to the plaintifff, his agent or attorney of record, all
monies by him collected or received, for the use of said party,
at any time after collecting or receiving the same, except as
provided in the fifteenth section of this act; or shall negl, ct or
refuse, on demand made for that purpose by the defendant, or
his legal agent or attorney of record, to pay over all monies
by him received for any sale made as aforesaid, more than suf

ficient to satisfy the writ or waits of execution, with interestand
legal costs—such sheriff or other officer shall, on motion in
', wo days no open court, and two days' notice thereof in writing, to be given

...; "such
sheritor other officer by the plaintſ or his attorney, he
amerced in the amount of said debt, damages and costs, with

Amount of

ten per centum thereupon, to and for the use of the said plain:

tiff or defendant, as the case may be.

..., , .

Sec. 33. That if any clerk of the supreme court or courts

prºmº cºurt and of common pleas, shall neglect or refuse, on demand made for
*"...
"... that purpose by the person entitled there to, his agent or al
may be a merced
*...' ..."... tºrney of record, to pav over all money by him received, in his
*** **, * official capacity, for the use of such person, every such clerk
may be amerced; and the proceedings against him and his se.

curities shall be the same as is provided for by this act against
she riſis and their securities.

Sec. 34. That when the cause of amercement is for refusing

..",".. to pay over money collected as aforesaid, the said sheriffor
no paying over other officer shall not be amerced in a greater sum than the
muoney

amount so withheld, with ten per centum thereon.

Sec. 35. That when execution shall be issued in any county
Executions is in this State, and directed to the sheriff or coroner of another

: "...": county, it shall be lawſul for such sheriff or coroner having such
returned by mail execution in possession, after having discharged all the duties

required of him by law, to inclose such execution, by mail, to
the clerk of the court who isssued such execution: and, on

proof being made by such sheriff or coroner that such execu.
tion was mailed a sufficient or reasonable time to have reached
the office where it was issued, within the time prescribed by
law, such sheriff or coronershall not be liable for any amerce

ment or penalty for any failure of the safe arrival of such ext:
cution; anything in this act to the contrary notwithstanding:
Sec. 36. That no sheriff shall forward any money, made on
sº.”
"any
such execution, by mail, unless he shall be especially in
send money by
. . . structed so to do, by the plaintifff, his agent or his attorney of re.
structions


cord: and in all cases of a motion to amerce a sheriff or officer,

Sotirº to amerce of any county other than the county from which the execution

lº "... issued, notice shall be given to such officer as herein before
ºw given

required, by leaving with such officer, or at his office, a writter copy of such notice, at least fifteen days before the first day of
the term at which such motion shall be made, or by inclosing
or transmitting by mail a written copy of such notice, directed
to such officer, at least sixty days previous to the first day of the
term at which such motion shall be made; and all amerce Force of amerce

ments so procured, shall be entered on the record of the court, ment
and shall have the same force and effect as a judgment.
Sec. 37. That each and every security of any such sheriff suretics may be
or other officer, may be made party to the Judgment so as alore- ºr pºliº."
said rendered against such sheriff or other officer, by scire fa- lº
clas against such security: and every such surety or sureties, facias
may, at the return of such scire facias, set up any matter which
may have arisen subsequent to entering judgment against such
sheriff or officer, in his, her, or their defense; but no matter

which may have arisen previous to entering such judgment... ".
against such sheriff or other officer, shall be permitted to be ºr
set up as a defense: and in case the surety or sureties do not

*

show sufficient matter of defense, at the return of said writ of

scire facias, wherefore judgment should not pass against him
or them, the court before whom the same is made returnable,
shall render judgment against such security or securities, as in
other cases: whereupon, execution, in the name, and ſor the

use of the party, or his legal representative, may, on motion, "
be awarded against the body of the sherifi or other officer, and
the goods and chattels, lands and tenements, of such sheriſi or

other officer, and any sureties who may have been made a par
ty to any such judgment: but the goods and chattels, lands and

tenements of any such security, shall not be liable to be taken ...".
es not to be
on riny such execution, when sufficient goods and chattels, ºn...hiſ.
lands and tenements of the sheriff or other officer, against whom riff has sufficient
execution may be issued, can be found to satisfy the same:
Provided, That nothing herein contained shall prevent either party may have
party from proceeding
against
such
or other officer, by...",...,
attachment,
according to
law, at
his sheriff
election.
ag

Sec. 38. That in cases where a sheriff, coroner or other of once, amon.
cer, may be amerced, and shall not have collected the amount may have execu.

of the original judgment from the judgment debtor, he shall be.”"
permitted to sue out an execution, and collect the amount of"
said judgment, in the name of the original plaintifff, ſor the use
of the said sheriff, coroner, or other officer.

Sec. 39. That the act, entitled “An act regulating judg Acts

re; a!e'

ments and executions,” passed the fourth day of February,
eighteen hundred and twenty-four; and all other acts, or parts
of acts, coming within the purview of this act, be, and they are

hereby repealed: Provided, That nothing in this act shall be rºyº ºn.
so construed as to affect bonds given for the delivery of per-tºniº, icº, *
sonal property, or any liens created or accruing, under the
provisions of the act passed February fourth, eighteen hundred
ºnd twenty-four.
