(4305) § 1. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of
the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in the
next section; but this section shall not be deemed to authorize
the assignment of a thing in action not arising out of contract.

(4306) § 2. An executor, administrator, a trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue,
without joining with him the person for whose benefit the action
is prosecuted. A trustee of an express trust, within the meaning
of this section, shall be construed to include a person with whom,
or in whose name, a contract is made for the benefit of another.
It shall not be necessary to make an idiot or lunatic a joint party
with his guardian or committee, except as may be required by
statute. ’

(4307) § 3. Actions upon official bonds, and bonds payable to
the Territory, shall be brought in the name of the Territory of
Oklahoma, upon the relation of the party interested.

(4308) § 4. A married woman may sue and be sued in the
same manneras if she were unmarried. '

(4309) § 5. When an infant shall have the right of action,
such infant shall be entitled to bring suit thereon, and the same
shall not be delayed or deferred on account of such infant not
being of full age.

(4310) § 6. Before any process shall be issued in the name of‘
an infant who is a sole plaintifff, a competent and responsible per-<
son shall consent in writing to appear as the next friend for such
infant; and such next friend shall be responsible for the costs of
such action ; and thereupon process shall issue as in other cases.
But where it shall appear to the court that such next friend is incompetent or irresponsible, the court may remove him, and permit
some suitable person to be substituted without pre]udice to the
progress of the action. _ '

(4311) § 7. The court, in its discretion, may require the next ..
friend of an infant, in an action for the recovery of any debt.or
damages, to execute a written undertaking to such infant, with

1

sufficient sureties to be approved by the court that the next friend
shall duly account to the infant for all monies which may be ‘recovered in such action. ‘

(4312) § 8. An infant defendant shall appear and defend by
guardian appointed by the court or chosen by such infant with the
consent of the court.

(4313) § 9. No person appointed as guardian shall be liable
for the costs of the action, unless charged by the special order of
the court of some personal misconduct in the same.

(4314) § 10. Any poor person, not having sufficient means to
prosecute or defend an action may apply to the court in which
the action is intended to be brought, or is pending, for leave to
prosecute or defend as a poor person. The court, if satisfied that
such person has not sufficient means to prosecute or defend the
action, shall admit the applicant to prosecute or defend as a poor
person, and shall assign him an attorney to defend or prosecute
the cause, and all other officers requisite for the prosecution or

defense, who shall do their duty therein without taking any fee orreward therefore from such poor person.

(4315) § 11. If any person so admitted be guilty of any improper conduct, or of any unjustifiable delay in the progress of
such action, the court may, in its discretion, annul such order, and
he shall thereafter be deprived of all benefit of the order admitting him to prosecute and defend as such poor person.

(4316) § 12. All persons having an interest in the subject of
the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, shall be joined
as plaintifffs, except as otherwise provided in this act. , '

(4317) § 13. Any unmarried female may prosecute, as plaintifff, an action for her own seduction, and may recover therein
such damages as may be assessed in her favor. ‘

(4318) § 14. A father, or, in case of his death,’ or desertion of
his family, or imprisonment, the mother may prosecute as plaintifff for the seduction of the daughter, and the guardian for the seduction of the ward, though the daughter or the ward be not living
with, or in the service of the plaintifff, at the time of the seduction
or afterwards, and there be no loss of service. When the action
is brought by the guardian, the damages recovered shall inure to
the ward.

_ (4319) § 15. When a husband or father has deserted his family, or is imprisoned, the wife or mother may prosecute or defend.
in his name, any action which he might have prosecuted ordefendCd. and shall have the same powers and rights therein as he might

have had.

_(4320) § 16. A father, or in case of his death, or desertion of
his family, or imprisonment, the mother may maintain an action
for the injury or death of the child, and the guardian for the injury
or death of his ward. But when the action is brought by the guardian for an injury to his ward, the damages shall inure to the benefit of his ward.

(4321) § 17. In cases where part only of the persons entitled

'to bring an action are barred by the statute of limitations, all may

be joined as plaintifffs; and when it shall appear to the satisfaction

of the court, by admission or otherwise, that part of the plaintifffs
are barred by the statute the court, upon motion, shall order the
names of such plaintifffs to be stricken from the record, and the
action may be prosecuted by those not barred.

(4322) § 18. Any person may be made a defendant who has,
or claims, an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintifffs,
or who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the questions involved.

(4323) § 19. Of the parties in the action, those who are
united in interest must be joined as plaintifffs or defendants; but
if the consent of any one who should have been joined as plaintifff can not be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason
thereof being stated in the complaint, and when the question is
one of a common or general interest of many persons, or where
the parties are numerous, and it is impracticable to bring them
all before the court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of the whole.

(4324) § 20. Persons severally and immediately liable upon
the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills
of exchange and promissory notes, may, all or any of them, be
included in the same action, at the option of the plaintifff.

(4325) § 21. No action shall abate by the death or disability
of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the cause
of action survive or continue. In case of the death or disability
of a party, the court, on motion or supplemental complaint at any
time within one year, or on supplemental complaint afterward,
may allow the action to be continued by or against his representative or successor in interest. In case of any transfer of interest,
the action shall be continued in the name of the original party; or
he court may allow the person to whom the transfer is made to
be substituted in the action.

(4326) § 22. The court may determine any controversy between the parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice
to the rights of others or by saving their rights; but when a complete determination of the controversy can not be had, without
the presence of other parties, the court must cause-them to be
joined as proper parties. And when, in an action for the ‘fecovery of real or personal property, a person not a party to the
action, but having having an interest in the subject thereof, makes
application to the court to be made a party, it may order him to
be made a party by the proper amendment. _ _ _

(4327) § 23. A. defendant against whom an action is pending
upon a contract, or for specific real or personal property, may, at
any time before answer, upon affidavit that a person not_a party
to the action, and without collusion with him, makes against him
a demand for the same debt or- property, upon due IIOUCC t0 5UCh
person and the adverse party, apply to the court for an orderto
substitute ‘such person in his place, and discharge him from liability to either party, on his depositing in court the amount of the
debt, or delivering the property, or its value, t0_SUCh_PC"5°n as
the court may direct; and the court may, in its discretion, make
the order. '

(4328) § 24. When a party is introduced into an action as a

. representative or successor of a former party, such new party is
entitled to the same notice, to be given in the same manner as required for defendants in the commencement of an action.

a (4329) § 25. In any action brought for the recovery of the
purchase money against any person holding a contract for the
purchase of lands, the party bound to perform the contract, if not
the plaintifff, may be made a party, and the court, in the final
judgment, may order the interest of the purchaser to be sold or
transferred to the plaintifff upon such terms as may be just; and
may also order a specific performance of the contract in favor of
the complainant or the purchaser, in case a sale be ordered.

n (4330) § 26. When any action is brought by the assignee of

‘a claim arising out of a contract, and not assigned by indorsement in writing, the assignor shall be made a defendant, if a resident of the Territory, to answer as to the assignment or his interest in the subject of the action. And all actions by assignees
shall be without prejudice to any set-off or other defense existing
at the time of or before notice of the assignment, except actions
on negotiable promissory notes and bills of exchange, transferred
in good-faith and upon good consideration before due.

(4331) § 27. When it is necessary for the defendant to bring
a new party before the court, he may state the matter relating
thereto in his answer, and demand relief; and thereupon a summons shall issue and other proceedings be had against him as if
such matter had been exhibited in the original complaint.

ARTICLE 3.——_IOINDER or CAUSES or ACTION.

SECTION. Sgcnou,
i. What causes of actions joined. 3. Joinders in matters of contract, sepa2. Action for title papers, reformation, rate trial.
etc.

run

(4332) § 1. The plaintifff may unite several causes of action in
the same complaint, when they are included in either of the following classes:

First. Money demands on contract.

Second. Injuries to property.

Third. Injuries to person or character.

Fourth. Claims to recover the possession of personal property.
with or without damages for the withholding thereof, and for injuries to the property withheld.

Fifth. Claims to recover the possession of real property, with
or without damages, rents and profits for the withholding thereof.
and for waste or damage done to the land; to make partition of
and'to determine and quiet the title to real property.

Sixth. Claims to enforce the specific performance of contracts
and to avoid contracts for fraud or mistakes.

Seventh. Claims to forclose mortgages; to enforce or discharge specific liens; to recover personal judgment upon the debt secured by such mortgage or lien; to subject to sale real property upon
demands against decedents’ estates, when such property has passed

to heirs, devisees, or their assigns; to marshal assets and to substitute one person to the rights of another; and all other causes of
action arising out of a contract or a duty, and not falling within
either of the foregoing classes. But causes of action so joined
must effect all the parties to the action, and not require different places of trial, and must be separately stated and numbered.

(4333) § 2. When the plaintifff desires to recover the possession of title papers or other instruments of writing, or correct any
mistakes therein, a separate action may be brought therefore; or
the possession of such title or papers or other instruments of writing may be recovered, or mistakes corrected in any other action,
when such recovery or correction would be essential to a complete remedy.

(4334) § 3. When the action arises out of contract, the plaintifff may join such other matters in his complaint as may be
necessary for a complete remedy and a speedy satisfaction of
his judgment, although such other matters fall within some
other one or more of the foregoing classes. When the several
causes of actions are united, belonging to any of the foregoing
classes, the court may order separate trials for the furtherance of

justice.

ARTICLE 4.—CAUSES or ACTION THAT SURVIVE.

Sgcnou, SECTION. _ _
I. Where actions survive, representa- 3. All other actions survive, exception.

give, 4. Action for death of another, limita2. What actions die, exception. tion.

\
(4335) § 1. In all cases where actions survive, they may be
commenced by or against the representatives of the deceased to
whom the interest in the subject matter of the action has passed.
(4336) § 2. A cause of action arising out of an injury to the
person dies with the person of either party, except in cases in
which an action is given for an injury causing the death of any
person, and actions for seduction,false imprisonment, and malicious prosecution.
(4337) § 3. All other causes of action survive and may be
brought by or against the representatives of the deceased party.

ex-cept actions for promise to marry.
(4338) § 4. When the death of one is caused by the wrongful

act or omission of another," the personal representatives of the

former may maintain an action therefore against the latter if the
former might have maintained an action, had he lived, against
the latter for an injury for the same act or omission. The action
must be commenced within two years. The damages cannot exceed ten thousand dollars, and must inure to the exclusive benefit
of the widow and children, if any, or the next of kin, to be distributed in the same manner as personal property of the deceased.

ARTICLE 5.-—SPECIA1. CAUSES or ACTION.

SECTION. _ SECTION.
1. Charges of incest, etc., how action- 4. Suit against co-tenant.
able. 5. Nuisance.

2. Waste, forfeiture and eviction.

3. Waste of trespass;suit by remainder-man.

6. Who may
7.

sue.
Nuisance, remedy.

(4339) § 1. Every charge of incest, fornication, adultery, or
whoredom, falsely made by any person against a female; also
words falsely spoken of any person, charging such person with incest, or the infamous crime against nature, whether with mankind
or the brute creation, shall be actionable in the same manner as in
the case of slanderous words charging a crime, the commission
of which would subject the offender to death or other degrading
penalties.

(4340) § 2. Wrongs heretofore remediable by action of waste
shall be subjects of action, as other wrongs in which there may be
judgment for damages, forfeiture of the estate of the party offending andeviction from the premises. Judgment of forfeiture and
eviction shall only be given to the person entitled to the reversion against the tenant in possession when the injury to the estate
in reversion shall be adjudged in the action to be equal to the
value of the tenants’ estate or unexpired term, or to have been

done in malice.

(4341) § 3. A person seized of an estate in remainder or reversion may maintain an action for waste or trespass, for injury
to the inheritance, notwithstanding an intervening estate for life
or years.

(4342) § 4. A joint tenant, or tenant in common, or tenant
in coparcenary, may maintain an action against his co-tenant or
co-parcener, or their personal representatives, for receiving more
than their just proportion.

(4343) § 5. Whatever is injurious to health, or indecent, or
offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as essentially to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment

of life or property, is a nuisance, and the subject of an action.

C

(4344) § 6. Such action may brought by any person whose
property is injuriously affected, or whose personal enjoyment I5
lessened by the nuisance.

_(4_345) § 7- Where aproper case is made, the nuisance may be
enjoined or abated and damages recovered therefore.

%

ARTICLE 6.——ACTIONS, WHERE COMMENCED.

SECT1°N- SECTION.
1. Real actions in county where land 4. Wills.
,l‘°5- 5. Railroads and other carriers.
2. Actions for penalties, etc., where 6. Residents and non residents; ascomrnenced. sign“-s_
3. Corporations, etc., agency. 7. Foreign corporation.
(4346) § 1. Actions for the following causes must be commenced in the county in which the subject of the action, or some
part thereof, is situated:

First. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest therein, or for the determination in any form of such right
or interest, and for injuries to real property.

Second. For the partition of real property.

Third. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property.

(4347) § 2. Actions for the following causes must be commenced in the county where the cause, or some part thereof,
arose:

First. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by
statute; except when imposed for an offense committed on ‘a lake
or river or other stream of water, situated in two or more counties,
the action may be brought in any county bordering on such lake,
river or stream, and opposite to the place where the offense was
committed.

Second. Against a public officer or person specially appointed
to execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office;
or against a person who, by his command or in his aid, shall do
anything touching the duties of such officer. '

In all cases enumerated in this and the section immediately
preceding it, process may issue to and be served in any county in
this Territory.

4 (4348) § 3. When a corporation, company or an individual
has an office or agency in any county for the transaction of business, any action growing out of or connected with the business of,
such office may be brought in the county where the office or agency is located at the option of the plaintifff, as though the principal
resided therein; and service upon any agent or clerk employed in
the office or agency shall be sufficient service upon the principal ; or process may be _sent to any county, and served upon the
principal. ,

'(4349) § 4. An action to establish or set aside a will must be
brought in the county in which the will, if valid, ought, according
to law, to be proved and recorded.

(4350) § 5. An action against a railroad or canal corporation
or company, or owner of a line of stages or coaches, for an injury°
to person or property upon the railroad, canal, or line of stages or
coaches of the defendant, or upon a liability as a carrier, may be
brought in any county through or into which such railroad, canal,
or line of stages or coaches passes; and the summons may be

served in any county in the Territory.
(4351) § 6. In all other cases, the action shall be commenced m

in the county where the defendants, or one of them, has his usual as
place of residence. Where there are several defendants residing
in different counties, the action may be brought in any county
where either defendant resides, anda separate summons may be
issued to any other county where the other defendant may be
found; and in cases of non-residents, or persons having no permanent residence in the Territory, action may be commenced and
process served in any county where they may be found.‘ ,But any
action brought by the assignee of a claim, arising out of contract,
whether assigned in writing or by delivery, shall be commenced in

the county where one or more of the parties immediately liable to
judgment and execution reside, and not elsewhere.

(4352)  7. Actions may be brought against a corporation
created by or under the laws of any other state, government, or
country, in any court having jurisdiction of the amount demanded,
by any person having a cause of action, in any county within the
Territory where any property, monies, credits, or effects belonging or due to the corporation may be found.

ARTICLE 7.——ACTIONS, How COMMENCED.

SECTION. SECTION.

1. Filing complaint, summons. 11. Li: pemlm: record.

2. Service, guardian ad [item for same. 12. Notice by party. contents, filing.

3. Service on corporations. I3. Attachment or levy, notice and filing

4. Summons and service, when good. by sheriff.

5. Notice by publication. 14. Index of clerk.

6. Personal service without the Terri- :5. Fees of clerk.
tory, proof. 16. Satisfaction of lien, costs. .

7. Proceedings when part only are 17. Dismissal of attachment, etc, certiliserved. . cate, fees.

8. Proceedings against joint debtors not 18. Failure to file notice, effect.
summoned, when. 19. Judgment, liens, not effected.

. Return of “not found” as to part.
to Plamttfi"s privilege, when part are
served.

(4353) § 1. A civil action shall be commenced, by filing in
s. the office of the proper clerk a complaint, and causing a summons
to issue thereon; and the action shall be deemed to be commenced
from the time of issuing the summons; but as to those against
whom publication is made, from the time of the first publication.
The summons shall be issued by the clerk, under the seal of the
court, and directed to the sheriff, and shall notify the defendant
of the action commenced, the parties thereto, and the court where
pending.

Or the plaintifff may bring his action by serving the defendant
with a summons signed by the plaintifff or his attorney, informing the defendant of-the name of the plaintifff, and that on or
before a day therein named, a petition. will «be filed in the office of
the clerk of the court wherein suit is brought. naming it, and
stating generally the cause or causes of action and if the action
is for money the amount thereof, and that unless the defendant
appear thereto and defend before noon of the second day of the
term, naming it, or at such other time as the court may by rule
direct, default will be entered, against him and judgment be rendered thereon.

The time of filing the petition must be not less than ten days
before the first day of the next term of the court. Delivery of
such summons to the sheriff or his deputy for services shall be
deemed the commencement of the action.

(4354) § 2. The summons shall be served, either personally

"' on the defendant, or by leaving a copy thereof at his usual or last

place of residence. An acknowledgment on the back of the process, or the voluntary appearance of a defendant, is equivalent to
service.

Process against persons of unsound mind shall be served upon
the guardian of such- persons, if there be a guardian. If no guardian shall have been appointed, then such process shall be served,
by copy, upon the superintendent of the hospital in which such
persons shall be confined, or upon the person having charge or
custody of such person; in which case, upon proof of the insanity
of the defendant, the court shall appoint a guardian ad [item for
such defendant, whose duty it shall "be to make proper defense to
such action. "

(4355) § 3. The process against either a domestic or foreign
corporation may be served on the president, presiding officer,
mayor, chairman of the board of trustees, or other chief oHicer
or, if its chief officer is not found in the county, then upon its
cashier, treasurer, secretary, clerk, general or special agent; or,
if it is a municipal corporation, upon its marshal; or, if it is an incorporated library company, upon its librarian; if none of the aforesaid officers can be found, then upon any person authorized to
transact business in the name of such corporation and if no such
person, officer, or agent be found in the county where-suit is pending, process may be sent, for service, to any other county in the
Territory where such person, officer, or agent may be found: Pro2/z'a'ea’, /zowever, That process shall not be served upon any such
person, oHicer, or agent when he is plaintifff in the suit, but, in such
cases, process shall be served upon some other such person‘, officer,
or agent of the corporation than such plaintifff; and in case the defendant be a foreign corporation, having no such person, oHicer, or
agent resident in‘ the Territory, service may be made in the same
manner as against other non-residents.

(4356) § 4. No summons, or the service thereof, shall be set
aside, or be adjudged insufficient, where there is sufficient sub-:
stance about either to inform the party on whom it may be served
that there is an action instituted against him in court, the name
of the plaintifff and the court, and the time when he is required to
appear. .

(4357) § 5. The clerk, by order of the court if in session,or inn
vacation without such order, shall cause a notice of the pendency
of such action, and the term at which the same will stand for trial,
to be published for three weeks successively in some newspaper
of general circulation named by the plaintifff or his attorney,
printed in the English language, and published in the county, or
if none be published or printed therein, then in the county in this
Territory~nearest thereto in which any such paper may be printed
in either of the following cases shown by affidavit: '

First. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation, and has
property wherein the Territory, or the cause of action arose therein.

Second. Where the defendant, being a resident of this Territory, has departed therefrom, with intent to defraud his creditors,
or to avoid the service of the summons, or keeps himself concealed
therein, with a like intent.

Third. Where the defendant is not a resident of this Territory
and the cause of action is founded upon or connected with a contract; or arises from a duty imposed by law in relation to rea
estate in this Territory, or the object of the action is to enforce
or discharge alien; or to- obtain a divorce; or to try and determine or quiet the title to, or possession of real estate or any interest therein; or to enforce the collection of any demand by proceedingsin guarnishment or attachment.
. Fourth. Where the residence of any defendant, upon diligent
inquiry, is unknown. '
Fifth. Where the name of any defendant is unkonwn, and
he is believed to be a non-resident.
(4358) § 6. When the defendant is a non-resident, personal
service of the summons out of the Territory is equivalent to publication; and such service may be‘ proved by the affidavit ofa competent person, made before any officer authorized to administer oaths; which affidavit shall state the time and place and mode
of giving the notice, and set forth that the person thus served
with notice is the identical person named in the action or proceeding; or the identify of the person may be proved by the aFfidavit of
the plaintifffor any other person. '

(4359) § 7. Where the action is against two or more defendants, and the service is served on one or more, but not all of them,
the plaintifff may proceed as follows:

First. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted on
contract, he may proceed against the defendant served; and if he"
recover judgment it may be enforced against the joint property of
all and the separate property of the defendant served.

Second. If the action be against defendant severally liable, he
may proceed against the defendants served in the same manner as

if they were the only defendants, and may afterward proceed
against those not served.

Third. If all the defendants have been served, judgment may
be taken against any or either of them severally, when thé
plaintifff would be entitled to judgment against such defendant
or defendants, if the action had been against them, or any of
them alone. .

(4360) § 8. In all cases where judgment has heretofore been.
or shall hereafter be, recovered against one or more persons jointly liable on contract, but such judgment has been, or shall be.
rendered only against part of the persons liable, for the reason
that the others were not summoned and did not appear, the plaintifff may proceed against those not summoned and who did not appear, in the same manner as if they were alone liable, but the
complaint must allege the facts aforesaid.

(4351) § 9. \Vhen there is a return of “not found," as to an)’
of the defendants, such return shall be suggested on the record.
and the plaintifff may continue the cause, as to them, for another
summons, at his option; and he may, in either case, pI‘0C€€d
against the defendants served in time.

(4362) .5 10. When the summons has been served in due time ‘

on part only of the defendants, the plaintifff may dismiss, or continue for further proceedings, his action as to those not summoned,

or not summoned in. time, and proceed to trial as to the others. or
continue as to all of them, at his option.

(4363) § 11. There shall be kept in the oHice of the clerk of
the several district courts of this Territory a book to be called‘
the “Lis Pendens Record," which shall be a public record.

(4364) § 12. Whenever any person shall have commenced a,
suit, whether by complaint as plaintifff, or by cross complaint as
defendant, to enforce any lien upon, right to, or interest in, any
real estate, upon any claim not founded upon an instrument executed by the party having the legal title to such real estate, as
appears from the proper records of such county, and recorded as
by law required; or not founded upon a judgment of record in the
county wherein such real estate is situated, against the party having the legal title to such real estate, as appears from such proper
records. It shall be the duty of such person to file with the clerk
of the district court in each county-where the real estate sought
to be effected is situated, a written notice containing the title of
the court, the names of all the parties to such suit, a description
of the real estate to be affected, and the nature of the lien, right,
or interest sought to be enforced against the same; which notice
shall, upon the payment of the proper fees. be immediately recorded in said “Lis Pendens Record” by the clerk, who shall note
upon the record the day and hour when said notice was filed and
recorded. 4

(4365) § 13. Whenever any sheriff or coroner of any county
in this Territory shall seize upon any real estate or interest therein, by virtue of any writ of attachment, or shall levy upon any such
real estate or interest therein, by virtue of any execution issued
to him from any court other than a court of the county. in which
he is sheriff or coroner. he shall, at the time of making the seizure
or levy, file with the clerk of the district court of his county a written notice, setting forth the names of the parties to the proceedings upon which the written attachment or execution is founded,
and recorded as provided for in the preceding section of this act; and
such sheriff or coroner shall state in his return to the attachment
or execution, that such notice has been filed, and he shall be allowed a fee of fifty cents, to betaxed as costs: Providecz’, That
such sheriff or coroner shall not be required to file such notice until
the attachment or execution-plaintifff shall have furnished the

’ money to pay the clerk for filing and recording the same

(4366) § 14. It shall be the duty of the several clerks, upon
filing and recording the notices herein provided. to index the
same in the name of the several parties whose interest in such
real estate is sought to be affected by such suits, attachments, or
executions, the plaintifff versus the names of all the defendants,
and such defendant whose real estate is sought to be affected at
the suit of the plaintifff.

(44367)  15. The clerk shall receive twenty-five cents for filing, recording, and indexing each notice required by this act, to
be paid by the person filing the same; and the further sum of fifteen cents for entering satisfaction of the lien, right, or claimed
interest, as hereinafter provided.

(4368) § 16. Upon-the final determination of any suit, brought
for the purposes in section seventy-seven specified, adversely to
‘the party seeking to enforce a lien upon. right to, or interest in,
such real estate, it shall be the duty of the court rendering the
judgment to order the proper'clerk to enter in said “Lis Pendens
Record” a satisfaction of the lien, right or interest sought to be
enforced against said real estate; and uporr such entry being made,
said real estate shall be forever discharged therefrom, and the
costs for entering such satisfaction shall be taxed as a part of the
costs in the case.

(4369) § 17. Whenever any such attachment shall be dismissed, or the judgment rendered thereon shall be satisfied, or
such execution shabl be satisfied without a sale of such lands so
seized or levied upon as aforesaid, or upon a redemption of such
real estate within the time allowed by law, after a sale thereof
upon execution, it shall be the duty of the clerk of the proper
court, from which such attachment or execution was issued, upon
a payment of a fee of fifty cents by the owner of such real estate,
to make a certificate of such dismissal or satisfaction, to be entered upon the “Lis Pendens Record,” if the same is in his office,
or to be recorded in the “Lis Pendens Record” of the proper
county where such real estate is situated; and upon such certificate being entered or recorded, such real estate shall be discharged from the lien of such attachment or execution. ‘
_ (4370) § 18. Until the proper notices required by this act have
been filed with the proper clerk, the bringing of suits for the purposes mentioned in section seventy-seven and the seizure of real
estate under attachments, and the levy thereon under execution,
in the cases mentioned in section seventy-eight, shall not operate
as constructive notice of the pendancy ofsuch suits, or of the
seizure of or levy upon such real estate, nor have any force or
effect as against bomz fide purchasers or encumbrancers of the
same.

(4371) § 19. Nothing in this act shall be construed to impair
the lien of judgments of the several courts of record of this Territory upon the real estate of defendants in the county where such

judgments are rendered, or transcripts thereof filed and recorded
as now required by law.

ARTICLE 8.——AC'l‘l0NS, WHEN DISMISSED.

SI:cT'IoI-4. ‘ SECTION.
1. Action dismissed when. 2. Dismissal in vacation, costs.

(4372) § 1. An action may be dismissed without prejudice.

First. By the plaintifff before the jury retires; or, when the
trial is by court, at any time by the finding of the court is announced.

Second. By the court where the plaintifff fails to appear on the
trial.

Third. By the court, on the refusal to make the necessary
parties, after having been ordered by the court.

Fourth. By the court on the application of some of the defendants, where there are others whom the plaintifff fails to prosecute with diligence.

Fifth. By the court, for disobedience by the plaintifff of an
order concerning the proceedings in the action. ,

In all other cases, upon the trial, the decision must be upon the
merits. _

(4373) § 2. The plaintifff may dismiss his action in vacation.
by filing with the clerk a writing to that effect. The clerk shall
enter such written dismissal in the order book, and the court shall
enter judgment accordingly to the next term. The plaintifff shall
not be liable to the defendant for any costs made by him after

notice of dismissal.;

ARTICLE 9.

SECTION.

Definition.

Distinct forms abolished.

What allowed.

Complaint,

numbered.

Demurrer; causes therefore.

Demurrer sustained tor misjoinder,

proceeding.

7. Misjoinder not ground for dismissal.
8. Pleading over; amendment; terms.
9. Objection by answer when.

to. Demurrer to part. answer to residue.
Ir. Demurrer overruled, judgment.

I2. l)emurrer to answer.

13. Answer. contents; paragraph numbered.

14. Set off.

15. Principal and surety; set-oli.

I6. Counter claim.

17. Omission to

contents, paragraphs

.°‘‘-.’‘ '!‘‘.“!‘-''2''

plead counterclaim,

effect.

18. Cross-demands; effect of assignment
or death

19. Set-oi? or counter—claim; right of defendant.

20. Answer, joint or several.

2!. Answer by guardian or committee.

22. Defenses except general denial, special.

23. Reply, demurrer thereto, paragraphs
numbered.

24. Pleadings subscribed.

25. Interrogatories to parties; continuance.

26. Verified pleadings not proof, exceptions.

27. Excuse pleaded, when a denial.

28. .When instrument or copy must be
filed.

29. Bill of particulars; abstract of titles.
30- Proof of execution of instruments;
verified plea, exception.

3'. Dilatory pleas verified; answers and

issue in abatement.
32. Failure of consideration, exception.

PLEADINGS.

Sacrron.

33. Pleading set-off or payment, though
barred.

34. Avermcnt of demand at place, when
unnecessary. *

35. Judgment of court of special jurisdiction, proof.

36. Condition precedent, pgpof.

37. Private statute.

38. Libel or slander; defamatory matter.

39. Justification and mitigation, evidence.

40. Presumption; matters of judicial
notice.

41. Property distrained, sufficient answer.

42. Liberal construction; indefiniteness,
how corrected.

43. Evidence under general denial,

44. Fictions abolished.

45. Paper lost or withheld, copy used.

46. Copy of pleading for adverse party,
r

ule.
47. Case numbers continuous.
48. Sham pleadings.

49, Allegations, when taken as true.

50. Damages, when recoverable.

5!. Relief, extent of.

52. When party constructively summoned may defend.

53. Complaint must be proved.

54. Plaintiff may be examined.

55. Adjustment of set-oli", or counterclaim.

56. No personal judgment.

57. Variance immaterial, unless party
misled. '

58. Variance immaterial, action of court.

59. ' Failure of proof.

60. Amendment, delay thereby, affidavit.

61. Contents of atiidavit; pleadings, when
filed.

62. Names of parties, pleadings corrected;
relief from judgment.

63. Name of defendant. '

64. Judgment not reversed for technical
error.

65. Supplememental pleadings.

(4374)  4. The pleadings are formal allegations of the parties
Of their respective claims and defenses, for the judgment of the

court

(4375) § 2. All the distinct forms of pleading heretofore exEisting, inconsistent with the provisions of this act, are hereby
abolished; and hereafter the forms of pleadings in civil actions
in courts of record, and the rules by which the'sufF1ciency of
the pleadings is to be determined. are modified as prescribed by
this act.
(4376) § 3. The only pleadings allowed are:
First. The complaint by the plaintifff.
Second. Demurrer and answer by the defendant.
Third. The demurrer and reply by the plaintifff.
Fourth. Demurrer to the reply.
(4377) § 4. The first pleading on the part of the plaintifff is
the complaint.
The complaint shall contain:
First. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court
and the county in which the action is brought and the names of the
parties to the action, plaintifff and defendant.

Second. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of action in plain and concise language, without repitition and, in such
manner as to enable a person of common understanding to know
what is intended.

Third. Where the complaint contains more than one cause of
action, each shall be distinctly stated in a separate paragraph and
numbered.

Fourth. A demand of the relief to which the plaintifff may suppose himself to be entitled.

If the recovery of money be demanded the amount thereof shall
be stated.

(4378) § 5. The defendant may demur to the complaint when
it appears upon the fact thereof, either;

First. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the
defendant or the subject of the action.

Second. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue.

Third. That there is another action pending between the same
parties, for the same cause.

Fourth, That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant

Fifth. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

Sixth. That several causes of action have been improperly
joined and for no other cause shall a demurrer be sustained.

Seventh. When it appears on the face of the petition that the
cause of action is barred by statute of limitation.

(4379) § 6. \—Vhere a demurrer is sustained on the ground of
several causes of action being improperly joined in the same complaint, the court shall order the misjoinder to be noted on the order book and cause as many separate actions to be docketed between the parties as there are causes decided by the court to be
improperly joined, and each shall stand as aseparate action. And
the plaintifff shall thereupon file a complaint in each of the above
cases to which the defendant shall enter his appearance and plead

u.

and go to trial, or suffer a default, in the same manner as in the
original action.

(4380) § 7. No judgment shall ever be reversed for any error
committed in sustaining or overruling a demurrer for misjoinder
of causes of action. .

(4381) § 8. If the court sustain or overrule a demurrer the party
affected by such ruling may plead 'over or amend, upon such terms
as the court may direct, and on payment of costs occasioned by
the demurrer.

(4382) § 9. Where any of the matters enumerated in section
ninety does not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection (except for misjoinder of causes) may be taken by answer.
If no objection is taken, either by demurrer or answer, the defendants shall be deemed to have waived the same, except only
the objection to the jurisdiction of the court over the subject of
the action, and except the objection that the complaint does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action: Promllea’,
/tower/er, That the objection that the action was brought in the
wrong county, if not taken by answer or demurrer, shall be deemed to have been waived.

(4383) § 10. The defendant may demur to one or more of the
several causes of action alleged in a complaint and answer as to the
residue. .

(4384) § 11. The judgment upon overruling a demurrer shall
be that the party shall plead over; and the answer or reply shall
not be deemed to overrule the objection taken by demurrer.
But no objection taken by demurrer and overruled shall be sufficient to reverse the judgment, if it appear from the whole record
that the merits of the case have been fairly determined. If a
party fail to plead after the demurrer is overruled judgment shall
be rendered against him as upon a default. '

(4385) § 12. Where the facts stated in any paragraph of the
answer are not sufficient to constitute a cause of defense, the
plaintifff, may demur to it under the rules prescribed for demurring to complaint.

(4386) § 13. The ‘answer shall contain:

First. A denial of each allegation of the complaint controvetted by the defendant.

Second. A statement of any new_ matter constitutinga defense,
counterclaim, or set-off, in plain and concise language.

Third. The defendant may set forth in his answer as many
grounds of defense, counterclaim, and set-off, whether legal or
equitable, as he shall have. Each shall be distinctly stated in a
§eparate paragraph, and numbered, and clearly refer to the cause
of action intended to be answered. _ _

(4387) § 14. A set-off shall be allowed only in actions _for
money demands upon contract, and must consist of matter arising

out of debt, duty, or contract, liquidated or not, held by the defendant at the time the suit was commenced, and matured at or
before the time it is offered as a set-off.

(4388) § 15. In all actions upon a note or _other Contract
against several defendants, any one of whom is principal and the

others sureties therein, any claim upon contract in favor of the

principal defendant, and against the plaintifff, or any former holder

of the note or other contract, may be pleaded as a set-off by the
principal or any other defendant. _
(4389)  16. A counterclaim is a matter arising out of or

'connected with a cause of action which might by the subject of an

action in favor of the defendant, or of which would tend to reduce
the plaintifff’s claim or demand for damages.

(4390) § 17. If any defendant personally served with notice

omit to set-up a counterclaim arising out of the contract, or
transaction set forth in the complaint as the ground of the
plaintifff's claims, or any of them, he can not afterwards maintain an action against the plaintifff therefore, except at his own
cost. .
(4391) § 18. When cross demands have existed between persons, under such circumstances that one could be pleaded as 3
counterclaim or set-off to an action brought upon the other,
neither can be deprived of the benefit thereof by the assignment
or death of the other and the two demands must be deemed compensated so far as they equal each other.

(4392) § 19. In any case where a set-off or counterclaim has
been presented, which in another action would entitle the defendant to a judgment against the plaintifff, the defendant shall have
right of proceeding to the trial of his claim without notice although the plaintifff may have dismissed his action or failed to
appean

(4393) § 20. Several defendants may answer jointly or severally, as the facts set forth in the complaint may require.

oath.

(4394) § 21. It shall be the duty of the guardian of aninfant,
or the committee of a person of unsound mind, or attorney appointedefor a prisoner, to file an answer denying the material allegations of the complaint prejudicial to such defendant without

(4395) § 22. All defenses, except the mere denial of the facts

alleged by the plaintifff, shall be pleaded specially.

(4396) § 23. VVhen any paragraph of the answer contains
new matter, the plaintifff may reply to it by a general denial; and
may also, in separate paragraphs, reply any new matter which
supports the complaint and avoids the new matter in such paragraph of the answer. The defendant may demur to any paragraph of the reply, on the ground that the facts stated therein are
not sufficient to avoid the paragraph of answer, or, if the answer
be a set-off or counterclaim, any part thereof. The paragraphs

of the reply, like the answer shall be severally numbered, and’

each shall plainly refer to the paragraph of the answer to which it
is addressed. The pleadings to a counterclaim shall be an
answer by the defendant thereto, and a reply to new matter in the
answer with the right to demur to any of them, as if the counter
claim were an original complaint.

(4397) § 24. Every pleading of fact in a court of record must
be subscribed by the party or his attorney, and verified by the
party, his agent or attorney. '

(4398)  25. Either party may propound interrogatories, to
be filed with the pleadings relevant to the matter in controversy,
and require the opposite party to answer the same under oath.
And corporations, through their proper oliicers, agent, or agents,
shall be required to answer interrogatories as natural persons.
All interrogatories must be answered within the time limited by
the court or judge, positively and without evasion, and the court
may enforce the answer by attachment or otherwise; and the_party
may, in addition thereto, ‘set forth in his answer, all the relevant
matter in avoidance. The answer to the interrogatories may be
used on the trial or not, at the option of the party requiring
it: Pro?/z'a’ea’, /zowerwr, That in the absence of such opposite party, the filing of the interrogatories shall not work a
continuance of the cause unless it be shown to the court, by
affidavit, that the party who files such interrogatores expects
to elicit facts by the answer, material to him on the trial; that
he believes such facts to be’ true; that he can not prove the
same by any witness; and that he Files the interrogatories not
for delay merely, but to obtain substantial justice at the trial.

Whena party filing interrogatories shall also file an affidavit
that he verily believes the subject of the interrogatories, or any of
them is in the personal knowledge of the opposite party interrogated, and that the answers thereto, if truthfully made from such
knowledge will sustain the claim or defense as the case may be,
or any part thereof, and if the opposite party shall fail to answer,
within the time allowed, or extended by the court therefore, the
claim or defense, or the part thereof, according to such affidavit,
shall de deemed to be sustained, and judgment be given accordin l .

g(4)_f599) § 26. Pleadings sworn to by either party in the case,
shall not, on the trial, be deemed proof of the facts alleged there-3
in, nor require other or greater proof on the part of the adverse
party than those not sworn to, ‘except as herein or otherwise by

'law provided.

(4400) § 27. When the pleadings show suliicient excuse for
not admitting or denying allegation, such excuse operates as a‘
denial of the truth of the allegation and to require its proof. .

(4401) § 28. When any pleading is founded on a written in-I
strument or on account, the original, or a copy thereof, ‘must ben
filed with the pleading. A set—off or a counterclaim is within the
meaning of this section. Such copy of a written instrument, when
Copied in the pleadings, shall be taken as a part of the record.’ The
account, if the items are numerous, shall not be copied In the
pleadings nor be deemed to be any part of the record, unless by
order of the court. Any variance between the pleadings and copy
of a written instrument filed, as to matter of description or legal
effect, may be amended at'any time (as of course) before Judgment
without causing a continuance. _

(4402) § 29. The court on motion, may order a further bill of ti
Particulurs, when the one filed is defective; and may. 111 3“ P''_°Pe‘'
cases upon motion, order a bill of particulars of the claim of either

Part)’, and abstracts of title to be furnished.

(4403) .§ 30. \Vhere a pleading is founded on a written instrument, or such instrument is therein referred to; when an assignment, in writing, of such instrument is specially alleged in a
pleading, such instrument or assigement may be read in evidence
on the trial of the cause without proving its execution, unless its
execution be denied by pleading under oath, or by an affidavit
filed with the pleading denying the execution. And when a written ‘instrument or assignment is so pleaded or referred to proof of
the names of the makers, assignors, obligors, assignees, payees,
or obligees, shall not be necessary uuless the same shall be denied by pleading under oath, or by affidavit filed as aforesaid.
The oath in case that the time of assignment is questioned,
shall be that the party has reason to believe, and does believe, that the assignment was not made before the suit was
commenced, but the executors, administrators, or guardians need
not deny the execution of an instrument, or the assignment
thereof, under oath, but the same 'must be proved as if it were
so denied. The party shall in all cases be entitled to an inspection of the instrument in writing, before pleading thereto.
: (4404) § 31. Pleadings denying the jurisdiction of the court,
or in abatement of the action, and all dilatory pleadings, must be
supported by affidavit. The character or capacity in which a party
sues or is sued, and authority by virtue of which he sues, shall require no proof on the trial of the cause, unless such character, capacity or authority, be denied by a pleading under oath, or by an
affidavit filed therewith. An answer in abatement must precede,
and can not be pleaded with an answer in bar, and the issue thereon must be tried first and separately. If the issue be found against
the answer, the judgment must be that the party plead over and
against him for all costs of the action up‘ to that time.

(4405)  32. A failure or want of consideration, in whole or
in part, may he pleaded to any action, set-off, or counterclaim
upon or arising out of any specialty bond or deed, except instruments negotiable by the law merchant, and negotiated before

the falling due.

3 (4406) § 33. A party to any action may plead or reply a setoff or payment to the amount of any cause of action or defense,
notwithstanding such set-off or payment is barred by the statute:
Provided, It was not barred at the time the cause of action arose.

_c (4407) § 34. In any action or defense, founded upon a bill or

’ note, or other contract for the payment of money at a particulur
place,it shall not be necessary to aver or prove a demand at the place,
but the opposite party may show a readiness to pay such demand
at the proper place.

I (4408) § 35. In pleading a judgment or decision of a court or
0FFncer of special jurisdiction, it shall be sufhcient to allege, generally that the judgment or decision was duly given or made. If the
allegation be denied, the facts conferring jurisdiction must be
proved on the trial. _

(4409) § 36. In pleading the performance of a condition pre"-cedent in a contract, it shall be suFF1cent to allege, generally, that
the party performed all the conditions on his part. If the allegations be denied, the facts showing a performance must be proved
on the trial. “ '

(4410) § 37. In pleading a private statute or a right derived
therefrom, it shall be sufiicient to refer to such_statute by its title

and the day of its approval, and the court shall take judicial notice
thereof.

(4411) § 38. In an action for libel or slander it shall be sufficient to state, generally, that the defamatory matter was published or spoken of the plaintifff; and if the allegation be denied,
the plaintifff must prove, on the trial, the facts, showing that the
defamitory matter was published or spoken of him.

(4412) § 39. In all actions mentioned in the last section, the
defendant may allege‘ the truth of the matter charged as defamitory and mitigating circumstances to reduce the damages, and
give either or both in evidence.

(4413) § 40. Neither presumptions of law nor matters of’
which judicial notice is taken need be stated in a pleading.

(4414) § 41. In an action to recover the possession-of property distrained doing damage, an answer that the defendant, or
person by whose command he acted, was lawfully possessed of the
real property upon which the distress was made, and that the
property distrained was -at the time doing damage thereon, shall
be good, without setting forth the title of such real property.

(4415) § 42. In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties;
but when the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or uncertain that the precise nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the court may require the pleading t-o be made definite and
certain by amendment. _

(4416) § 43. Under a mere denial of any allegation, no evi—‘
dence shall be introduced which does not tend to negative what the
party making the allegation is bound to prove. .

(4417) § 44. All fictions in pleading are abolished, and their:
use forbidden in the courts of justice in this Territo'ry. - .

(4418) § 45. If an original pleading or paper be lost or With-‘
held by any person, the court may authorize a copy thereof to be.
filed and instead of the original.

(4419) § 46.- The court may, by rule, require that when the,
complaint, answer or reply in any cause is filed, the party 51-!
ing the same shall also file one copy thereof for the use of the opposite party, but no copy of any exhibit need be filed; and for the
filing of which copy no fee shall be taxed by the Clerk(_442o) § 47. 4 Each case, when it is filed and entered, shall be
numbered; and thereafter, in all its stages in the same court, and‘
upon every docket and the book; such cause, and all the papers
and exhibits filed therein, shall bear the same number as when
first filed. - - _ I _

(4421) § 48. An answer or other pleading shall be rejected i}
as sham, either when it plainly appears upon the face thereof to
be false in fact, and intended merely for delay, or Wh€D 5h0W“ to
be so by the answers of the party to special written interrogatories propounded to him to ascertain whether the pleading is false;

‘and all surplusages, tautology, and irrelevant matter shall be set
aside and struck out of any pleading, when pointed out by the
party aggrieved. '

(4422) § 49. Every material allegation of the complaint not
controverted by the answer, and every material allegation of new
matter in the answer not controverted by the reply shall for the
purpose of the action be ‘taken as true but the allegations of new
matter in a reply are to be deemed controverted by the adverse
party as upon a direct denial or avoidance as the case may require. Allegations of value or amount of damages shall not be
considered as true by the failure to controvert them; but in actions upon account, in which an itemized bill of particulars, the
correctness of which is duly affirmed or sworn to by the plaintifff,
or some one in his ‘behalf has been filed with the complaint a default by the defendant shall be deemed to admit the correctness

of the bill of particulars, as sworn or affirmed to and judgment may
be rendered thereon without further evidence.

(4423) § 50. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintifff _

may claim and recover, if he show himself entitled thereto, any
damages which he might have heretofore recovered for the same
cause of action. 4 (4424) § 51. The relief granted to the plaintifff, if there be
no answer, cannot exceed the relief demanded in his complaint;

but in any other‘case, the court may grant him any relief consistent with the case made by the complaint and embraced within

the issue. _

(4425) § 52. A defendant constructively summoned shall be
allowed, at any time before judgment, to appear and defend the
action; and upon a substantial defense being disclosed, time may
be given on reasonable terms, to prepare for trial.

(4426) § 53. The statements of a complaint against a defend‘ant constructively summoned, and who has not appeared, except

such as are for his benefit, shall not be taken as true, but shall be
established by proof.

' (4427) § 54. Before rendering judgment against a defendant
constructively summoned, and who has not appeared, the court
may cause the plaintifff to appear personally in court, or before a
commissioner and answer, under oath, interrogatories concerning
the matters ‘in the complaint, or any matters which might be set
up in defense thereto, including matters of set-off and counterclaim, and may order the examination to be reduced to writing,
and filed with the papers of the action. *

, (4428) § 55. If upon the examination provided‘ in the last
section, any’ matters of set-off or counterclaim are disclosed, the
same may be adjusted by the judgment. '

(4429) §- 56. No personal judgment shall be rendered against
a defendant constructively summoned, who has not appeared in
the action.

. (4430) § 5'7. No variance between the allegations in a pleadmg and the proof is to be deemed material, unless it has actually
misled the adverse party to his prejudice in mai taining his action

V

or defense upon the merits. Whenever it is alleged that a -party
has been so misled, that fact must be proved to the satisfaction of
the court.and it must be shown in what respect he has been misled; and thereupon the court may order the pleading to be
amended on such terms as may be just not exceeding costs caused
by such amendment.

(4431) § 58. Where the variance is not material, as provided
in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found ac-'
cording to the evidence, or may order animmediate amendment,
without costs. ‘

(4432) § 59. When, however, the allegation of the claim or
defense to which the proof is directed is unproved, not in some‘
particular only, but in its general scope and meaning, it is not to
be deemed a case of variance within the last two sections, but a
failure of proof. .

(4433) § 60. Any pleading may be amended by either party,
of course, at any time, before the pleading is answered. All other;
amendments shall be by leave of the court. The party amending
shall pay the costs of the leave to amend. When the trial is not
delayed by reason of the amendment, no other costs shall be taxed.
When the amendment causes a delay during any part of the term,
or to another term, the party amending shall pay the costs of
such delay. No cause shall be delayed by reason of an amendment, excepting only the time to made up issues, but upon goodcause shown by afhdavit of the party or his attorney asking such.
dela .

(43:34) § 61. The affidavit shallshow distinctly in what respect
the party asking for the delay has been prejudiced in his prepar- 3:
ation for trial by the amendment. When the action is continued
for such cause, the party asking the delay shall file his pleadings
at such time as the court may direct.

(4435) § 62. The court may, at any time, in its discretion, Pa
and upon such terms as may be deemed proper for the furtherance :2
of justice, direct the name of any party to be added or struck
Out: a mistake in name, description, or legal effect. or in any
other respect, to be corrected; any material allegation to be inserted, struck out or modified, to conform the pleadings to the
facts proved, when the amendment does not substantially change
the claim or defense. The court may also, in its discretion, allow
aparty to file his pleadings after the time limited therefore; and
shall relieve a party from a judgment taken a against him, through
his mistake, inadvertance, surprise, or excusable neglect, and
Supply an omission in any proceedings, on complaint or motion
filed withi'n two years.

(4436) § 63. When the plaintifff is ignorant of the name of the I
defendant such a defendant may be designated in any pleading or fen
proceeding by any name; and when his true name isdiscovered,
the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly, either
before or after service of the summons. _ .

(4437)  64. The court must in every stage of the action, dis- I
regard any error or defect in the pleadings which does not affect:
the substantial rights of the adverse party; and no judgmérlt Can

be reversed or effected by reason of such error or defect, not exceeding the costs caused by such amendment.

(4438) § 65. The court may on motion allow/supplemental
pleadings, showing facts which occurred after the former pleadings
were filed.

ARTICLE IO.—-FORMATION AND ORDER or ISSUES.

SECTION. SECTION.

1. Calling ofpauses; completing issues. 4. Issues of fact, when tried, damages
2. Judgment on failure to plead, excep- assessed.

tion. 5. Docket entries.
3. Entry docket of clerk. 6. Judge to arrange order of business.

(4439) § 1. On the second, and each succeeding day of the
‘term, the court shall call as many of the causes which stand for
trial at such term, for issues, as the business of the court will permit; the court shall call the causes in the order they stand on the ~

docket, and shall compel the parties to file their respective pleadings and answers to interrogatories, at such time as the court shall
deem just, in no case allowing unreasonable delay; and the pleadings shall be completed at an early day of the term.

(4440) § 2. If, from any cause, either party shall fail to plead
or make up the issues within the time prescribed, the court shall
forthwith enter judgment as upon a default, unless, for good cause
shown, further time be given, on the payment of the costs occasioned.by the delay.

(4441) § 3. The clerk shall keep an entry-docket, wherein he
shall enter all actions in the order in which they are brought, and
the date of issuing the process and the date of the judgment.
Within three weeks after the adjournment of the court he shall
make out an issue-docket for all actions then pending, and shall docket therein all cases which may be commenced previous to the first
day of the next term, in their order, and furnish a copy of the
same for the use of the court. , (4442) § 4. The trial of any issue of fact shall be on or after

“' the day on which the cause is set on the docket, unless otherwise
agreed by the parties. The assessment of damages, in case of
default, shall be on or after the day on which the default is taken.

as. (4443) § 5. The entry on the docket shall show whether or
not the summons has been fully served or notice given in due
time for trial, and whether or not the issues have been formed.

_ (4444) § 6. The districtjudges of this Territory, shall have

V power, and it is hereby made their duty, by proper order, to arrange and regulate the order of business in their respective districts; and in making such order they shall provide:
First. For making up of issues.

Second. For the trial of criminal cases.
Third. For the trial of civil cases.

ARTICLE 1 I.—ISSUES.

' SECTION. Section.
1. Issues, two kinds. 3. Issues of fact.
2' Issues of law. A 4. Causes, how tried, distinction.

(4445) § 1. Issues arise on the pleadings, where a fact or conclusion of law is maintained by one party and controverted by the
other. They are of two kinds.

First. Of law.

Second. Of fact.

(4446) § 2. An issue of law arises upon demurrer to the complaint, answer, or reply, or to some part thereof.

(4447) § 3. An issue of fact arises:

First. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, denied by
the answer.

Second. ‘Upon a material new matter in the answer, denied by
the reply.

Third. Upon material new matter in the reply, which shall be
considered as controverted by the opposite party without further
pleading.

(4448) § 4. Issues of law and issues of fact in causes that are,
of exclusive equitable jurisdiction, shall beltried by the court;
issues of fact in all other causes shall be triable by jury. In case
of the joinder of causes of action or defenses which, formerly,
were of exclusive equitable jurisdiction, with causes of action or
defenses which were designated as actions at law and triable by
jury, the former shall. be triable by the court, and the latter by a
jury, unless waived ;. the trial of both may be at the same time or
at different times, as the court may direct: Provz'a'ea', That in all
cases triable by the court as above directed, the court, in its discretion, for its information, may cause any question of fact to be
tried by jury, or the court may refer any such cause to a referee,

for hearing and report.

ARTICLE I2.-——CONTINUANCES.

SECTION. SECTION. _
I. Continuance on affidavit, 2. Continuance by court, proviso.

(4449) § 1. A motion ‘to postpone the trial on account of the
absence of evidence can be made only upon affidavit, showing the°
materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained, and that due
diligence has been used to obtain it, and where the evidence may
be, and if it is for an absent witness the affidavit must show
the name and residence of the witness, if known, and the probability of procuring the testimony within a reasonable time, and
that his absence has not been procured by the act or connivance of the party, nor by others at his request,_nor with
his knowledge and consent, and what facts he believes the
witness will testify to, and that he believes them to be true, and
that he is unable to prove such facts by any other witness whose
testimony can be as readily procured. If, thereupon. the adverse

party will consent that, on the trial, the fact shall be taken as
‘true, if the absent evidence is written or documentry, and, in
case of a witness, that he will testify to said facts as true, the trial
shall not be postponed for that cause, and, in such case, the party
against whom such evidence is used, shall have the right to impeach such absent witness, as in case where the witness is present
or his deposition is used.

(4450) § 2. Any court, for good cause shown, may continue
.any action at any stage of the proceedings, at the cost of the applicant, to be paid as the court shall direct: Proz.rz'a'cd, That if, by
reason of an amendment to the pleadings, a party who would
otherwise be ready for trial be compelled to obtain a continuance,
it shall be at the costs of the party making the amendment.

ARTICLE I3.——CHANGE or VENUE.

2

SECTION. - SECTION. .
1. Causes for. 3. Payment to county of expense of
2. Change from county, costs; one trial.
change. . 4. No change in vacation, exception,

(4451) § 1. The court in term, or the judge, thereof in vacation, shall change the venue of any civil action upon the application of either party, made upon affidavit showing one or more of
the following causes:

First. That the judge has been engaged as counsel in the cause
prior- to his election or appointment as judge, or is otherwise interested in the cause.

Second. That the judge is of kin to either party.

Third. Thatthe opposite party has an undue influence over
the citizens of the county, or that an odium attaches to the applicant, or to his cause of action or defense, on account of local
predjudice.

Fourth. VVhen the county is a party to the suit.

Fifth. Showing to the satisfaction of the court that the convenience of the witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by the change.

Sixth. That the ‘judge of the court wherein such action is
pending, is a material witness for the party applying for such
change.

Seventh. When either party shall make and file an afhdavit of
the bias, predjudice. or interest of the judge before whom the
said cause is pending.

(4452) § 2. When a change of venue is directed for any of the
causes mentioned in the third. fourth and fifth specifications of the
preceping section, the court or judge shall designate the county
to which the venue shall be changed (which may be in the
same or in an adjoining district, as may be deemed best for the
furtherance of justice), and shall prescribe the time within which
the appellant shall pay the costs of the change; and the clerk of
the court in which the suit is pending, as soon as the costs are
paid, shall forthwith transmit all the papers and transcript of all
the proceedings to the clerk of the court of the county to which

venue is changed; and the clerk of the proper court shall receive
the papers and transcript, giving a receipt therefore. and docket
the action in its order among the other causes of the court ; and
the action shall stand for trial at the first term, and shall be tried
or otherwise be disposed of in the same manner as if the cause had
originated in that court. If the party fail to pay the costs of the
change within the time prescribed by the court, he shall be taxed
with all the costs made in the case up to the time of such failure,
and shall not be entitled to a change of venue from the county.
Only one change of venue shall be granted to the same party from
the county, and only one from the judge.

(4453) § 3. In all cases, where there has been or shall be a
change of venue from one county to another, the county from
which the change of venue shall have been or shall be taken shall
be liable to pay to the county to which such change shall have
been or shall be taken, all such expenses as shall have been or
shall be incurred by‘such county to which such change shall have
been or shall be taken, in consequence of such change, and in all
cases, the fees paid by such county to the jury trying the case,
and any of the regular panel not engaged in such trial, allowance
to bailiffs, and all other expenses necessarily incurred by such
county, and consequent upon such change of venue and the trial
of such cause. Such expenses shall be audited and allowed by the
court to which such cases shall have been changed; and such court
shall certify such allowance to the county clerk of the county from
which the change of venue was first taken; and such county clerk
shall issue his warrant on the treasurer of the county for the
amount so allowed and certified.

(4454)' § 4. No change of venue shall be granted in vacation
unless the opposite party has been given ten days notice of the,
application therefore. C

ARTICLE I4.—DEPOSITIONS.

SECTION. SECTION.
I. Before whom taken. 18. Foreign depositions, how taken,
2. Notice, contents, service. notice. .
3. Time to travel, etc,’ allowed, 19. Filing, continuance’ when had. _
4. Notice, how served, 20. Publication, when had.
5. When court may order taking. 21 - Objections ‘° °°“_‘P,°t°“°Y'
6. When taken and used, 22. Objections to validity. _
7. Deponent notob1igedto1eaV¢ county, 23. When used in another action.
8. When not read, exception. 24. Perpetuating testimony. notice.
9. Attendance, how enforced. 25- M‘'‘“"‘”' °““k'",g'
to. All officers to report non-attendance. 26. Filing and keeping sealed.
II. Oath; manner of examination. 27- P“b1i°‘"i°“' .
I2. By whom written and signed_ 28. Record and copy, evidence.
I3. .Cemf,cme_ 29. Deposition, when. used. '
I4. Seaiing, enclosing, directing, en- 30. Unimportant deviation.
do;--_.;ing_ * 31. Adverse party, when allowed ex‘5- Cause of taking, shown at reading. Pe"5°515. Commission only for foreign country. 32. Taking by interrogatories, proviso.
I7. Certificate, when authenticated.

(4455) § 1. Depositions of witnesses, taken'within or without

the Territory, may be taken, according to the regulations herein- “I

after provided, before any judge, justice of the peace, notary public, mayor or recorder of a city, clerk of a court of record, or comimissioner appointed by the court to take depositions; but depositions shall not be taken before any person being of kin to either
party or interested in the action. .

(4456) § 2. A party wishing to take depositions shall give
notice to the adverse party, if there be only one person; if there be
several, to any one of them who is a real party in interest, his
agent or attorney. Such notice shall specify:

First. The cause or matter in which ‘the deposition is to be
used. -4
Second. The court or tribunal in which the trial is to be had.‘

Third. The time and place of taking the deposition, and the
names of the witnesses.

(4157) § 3. The adverse party shall be allowed a reasonable
time to travel from his usual place of abode to the plate of taking
the deposition, by the ordinary route of travel, exclusive of the
day of service, the day of taking the deposition and the intervening Sundays. lf served on an attorney or agent, a reasonable
time shall be allowed him to communicate the same to the party.

(4458) § 4. The notice may be served in the same manner,
and by any person authorized to serve a summons for a witness.
If neither the party nor his agent or attorney reside in this Territory. the notice may be filed in the clerk's office, or published
three weeks successively in the ‘county in which the suit is pendmg.

(4459) § 5. In all actions, the court may order the taking of

depositions, whenever deemed necessary to determine the rights
of the parties, or to expedite the trial of causes; and may, if necessary for that purpose, order a continuance until the next term.
' (4460) § 6. In all actions, depositions may be taken by either
party, in vacation or term time, at any time after service of summons, without order of court therefore. They may be used in the
trial of all issues, in any action, in the following cases:

First. Where the witness does not reside in the county. or in

a county adjoining the one in which the trial is to be held, or is .

absent from the county.

Second. \Vhen the deponent is so aged, infirm, or sick, as not
to be able to attend the court or other place of trial, or is dead.

Third. \Vhen_ the depositions have been taken by agreement of the parties, or by the order of the court trying the
cause.

Fourth. \Vhen the deponent is a Territorial or county officer,
orjudge, or a practicing physician, or attorney at law, ahd the
trial is to be had in any county in which the deponent does not
reside. In either of the foregoing cases, the attendance of the

-witnesses cannot be enforced.

Fifth. VVhen notice is given fixing the time of taking any deposition on a day in term time, the court may, if in session, ‘or the
judge thereof in vacation. on notice being given by the adverse
party of the time and place of hearing the motion,'lix another
day for such taking, and the court, on the hearing of such motion,

-' dence, it must appear to the satisfaction of the court that the cause

may fix'the time for such taking from which there shall be no
appeal. » . (4461) § 7. A witness is not obliged to attend for examination upon a deposition in any other county than that of his residence, but may consent to do so.

(4462) § 8. No deposition shall be read in evidence on the
trial of a cause, if at that time the witness is produced in court,
unless the deposition has been taken by the agreement of the
parties or by the order of the court.

(4463) § 9. The officer taking the deposition shall have power
to summon and compel the attendance of witnesses. In case of
the refusal of a witness to attend and testify, such fact shall be reported by the officer to any district or probate court of the county,
or the judge thereof, and such court or judge shall order such
witness to attend and testify; and on failure or refusal to obey
such order, such witness shall be dealt with as for a contempt. A

(4464) § 10. The provisions ‘of the last section shall extend
to all officers and commissioners authorized to take depositions in
this Territory, to be read in the courts of other states, territories
or countries.

(4465) § 11. The deponent shall first be sworn by the officer
to testify to the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth,
relating to the cause or matter for which the deposition is to be
taken; and he shall then be examined by the party producing him
and then by the adverse party, and by the officer or parties afterward, if they see cause. (4466)  12. The deposition shall be written down by the
officer, o'r by the deponent or by some disinterested person, in the
presence and under the direction of the officer; and after the same
has been carefully read to or by‘ the deponent, it shall be subscribed by him.

(4467) § 13. The officer shall annex a certificate to the deposition, stating the following facts:

First. That the deponent was sworn according to law. .

Second. By whom the deposition was mitten; and if written
by the deponent or some disinterested person, that it was written
in the presence and under the direction of the officer.

Third. Whether or not the adverse party attended. .

Fourth. The. time and place of taking the deposition, and the
hours between which the same was taken. And the officer shall
sign’ and attest the certificate, and seal the same, if he have a seal
of office. ‘

(4468) § 14. The oliicer taking the deposition shall seal up the?
same in a sullicient paper envelope, and direct the same to the‘
clerk of the court in which the action is pending, Iindorsiiig on the
envelope the names of the parties and of the witnesses whose depositions are enclosed. , _

(4469) § 15. \Vhen a deposition is offered to be read in evi‘J

for taking and reading it still exists. _ _ _ h
(4470) § 16. When a deposition is to be taken within or.wi.’c -0
out the Territory, but within the United States no commission c

may be issued for taking the deposition. Vl/hen taken out of the

'United ‘States the clerk shall, upon the request of the party taking the deposition, issue a commission to the officer or commissioner designated to take the depositions. No order of court or
affidavit shall be necessary to authorize the issuing of the commission.

(4471) § 17. When the commission contains the name of the
officer before whom the deposition is to be taken, his attestation
officially certifying the same, shall be sufficient; but if the commission do not specify the name of the officer, and he have no official seal, his certificate shall be authenticated by the certificate
and seal of the clerk or prothonotary of any court of record of the
county in which the officer exercises the duties of his office.

(4472) § 18. When the depositions are to be taken within the

‘Territory or in a foreign country, they may be taken pursuant to

an order of the court, under a commission, with such reasonable
notice of the time and place of taking the same as the court shall
require; and they shall be certified and returned by the commissioner in such manner as the court shall direct.

(4473) § 19. Every deposition intended to be read in evidence, must be filed in court at least one day before the time at
which the cause in which the deposition is to be used stands o_n
the docket for trial’; or, if filed afterward, and claimed to be used
on the trial, the adverse party shall be entitled to a continuance,
at the costs of the party filing the deposition, upon showing
good cause by affidavit.

(4474) § 20. Depositions, after being filed, may be published _

by the clerk, at the request of either party.

(4475)  21. Objections to the competency of a deponent, or
to the propriety of any question proposed to him or answers given
by him, may be made at the time of taking his deposition or in
court whether made at the taking of the deposition or not. No
deposition shall be suppressed for any informality therein or in
the taking thereof unless such informality shall be prejudicial to
the substantial right of the party. ' '

(4476) § 22. All objections to the validity of any deposition,
or its admissibility in evidence, shall be made before entering
upon the trial; not afterward. But any deposition after the commencement of the trial may be suppressed, if any matter which is
not disclosed in the deposition appears, which is sufiicient)to authorize such.suppression.

(4477) §23. \Vhen an action has been dismissed, and another
action has been commenced for the same cause, the depositions
taken in the first action may be used in the second or any other
action between the parties, or- their assignees or representatives,
for the same cause; but it must appear that the depositions have
been duly filed in the court where the previous cause was pending,
and have remained on file from the time the action was dismissed
until the time at which it was proposed to use them.

(4478) § 24. \Vhenever any person shall make affidavit before
any. district or probate court, or judge thereof, or clerk of the
court, that such person expects to be made a party in any action

thereafter to be commenced, and that the testimony of the afliant
or any other person, whether residing within or out of the Territory to be named in the affidavit, is material and necessary to the
prosecution or defense thereof, the court or officer before whom
the affidavit is made shall order reasonable notice to be given to
the party expected to be adverse to the applicant or his attorney,
that on the day and at the place in such notice to be expressed,
the witness will be examined conditionally before such officer as
shall be specified in the order.

(4479)-§ 25. Upon proof that the notice has been given,
either by personal service, or advertisement at least three weeks
successively in some newspaper published in the proper county, or
the one most convenient thereto (when the person to be notified
is not an inhabitant of the Territory), being made to the officer
authorized to take the testimony, he shall proceed to take, and
certify, seal up and return the depositions according to the rules
provided for other depositions in this act.

(4880) § 26. Every affidavit and order, and every deposition,
so taken and certified, shall, within thirty days after the deposition
is taken, be filed in the office of the clerk of the proper court of
the county where the subject matter of such expected suit may be
situated. The clerk shall file said deposition, and it shall remain
sealed until published by order of the court after commencement
of such expected action. '

(4481) § 27. Any deposition which has heretofore been taken
and filed for the purpose of perpetuating testimony, in pursuance
of any existing or former statute of this Territory, as well as any
deposition which may hereafter be taken and filed to perpetuate
testimony, may, at any time, either before or after the commencement of the action in anticipation of which such deposition may
have been taken, be published by order of the court in the office
of whose clerk the same may be filed, on the motion of any person or party interested in the preservation of the testimony; and
such deposition, with all the accompanying affidavits, orders, notices and other documents shall be directed by such court to be
entered of record in the order-book of such court, at the cost
of the party making such motion; and such record shall contain a statement or recital of the date of the filing of such deposition.

(4482) S 28. The record of any deposition recorded under,

the‘ provisions of the last section, and copies of such record, duly
certified, may be used as evidence whenever and wherever the original deposition {night be used.

(4483) S 29. Upon the proof of the death, insanity, or ab-.

sence from the Territory of such witness, or inability by reason Of
age or infirmity to attend, the deposition. or a certified copy there0f by the clerk of the court where the same is filed, shall be admitted as evidence in any court in this Territory, in any cause
between the parties named in the affidavit, or in any cause between persons claiming under either of said parties, and shall have
like effect as if the witness had been personally present and g1V£n
Oral testimony therein, saving the right of exception in all Cases

on account of the incompetency of the witness or of any part of
‘the testimony contained in the deposition.

(4484) § 30. An unimportant deviation from any direction
relative to taking deposition shall not cause any deposition to be
excluded where no substantial prejudice would be done to the opposite_ party. .

(4485) § 31. When a party shall, in response to a notice to

" take depositions orally, attend at the time and place, by himself
or attorney, and the deposition shall not be taken, he shall, upon
notice and affidavit of the fact, have judgment against the party
at whose instance the notice was given, for two dollars per day
for each day he may have attended under the notice, and six
cents per mile for the distance necessarily travelled in going to
and returning from the place fixed for taking such depositions,
unless it shall be shown that the failure to take such depositions
did not result from the negligence or fault of the party giving
such notice.

(4486) § 32. The deposition may be taken upon written in'terrogatories as follows: The parties desiring to take such deposition shall ‘serve notice of his intention, together with a copy of the.
interrogatories which he intends to propound. The opposite party
_may file with the clerk within five days such cross-interrogatories
as he desires to propound. The clerk shall then issue to some
officer by him to be selected, authorized to take depositions, a
commission with the interrogatories, cross-interrogatories, and
re-examining interrogatories annexed thereto, requiring him to
cause the witness to come before him at such time and place as he
may appoint, and to faithfully take his deposition. upon the
questions annexed to the commission, and thereupon to make return to the court of his doings under such commission without delay. The officer shall first swear or afiirm the witness that he will
make a true, full and perfect answer to the interrogatories to be
propounded to him; and then he shall propound the interrogatories annexed to the commission in their order, and accurately
write the answers of the witness to such. He shall then read carefully to the witness such interrogatories and his answer thereto,
and correct the answers as the witness may desire; and then the
witness shall sign such deposition. Neither the parties, their
agents or attorney, shall be present, nor shall they, or any of them
be informed of the nature of the evidence until the deposition is,
finished. The officer shall annexto the deposition his certificate,
showing specifically, a fulfillment of each requirement of this section; and shall then enclose the deposition with the commission,
interrogatories, and the answers securely sealed, and transmit the
same, addressed to the clerk of the court in which the suit is pending. with the title of the cause indorsed thereon: Prozidm’, Immz'2"e*r, If the parties served with notice, as in this section provided,
shall prefer to cross-examine the witness orally, he shall notify
the opposite party of such election within three days after receivmg notice, and in that case the deposition shall not be taken
without notice to him of the time and place thereof, and he shall have
the privilege of an oral examination; and the commission and
officer's certificate shall be modified accordingly.

ARTICLE l5.———WRI'1"I‘EN EVIDENCE.

SECTION. , SECTION.
1. Sealed and unsealed writings I6. Patents and records.
2. Instruments, how executed. 9 17. Record of patents, etc.. evidence.
3. Effect of recitals. 18. Proceedings of courts of records.
4. Legislative acts and judicial records 19. Proof of publication of notice.
authenticated, efTect. 20. Afiidavit and copy of notice presump
5. Other public records authenticated, tive evidence. ,
efiect. 2:. Affidavit taken in another state, whel
6. Statutes of states, etc., evidence. evidence.
7. Judgments ofjustices, etc., of states. 22. Common law and reports of othe
8. Judgment ofjustices in this territory. states.
9. Certificates of notaries public. 23. Law of foreign country.
to. Certificate of Secretary of the Terri- 24. When writing in evidence withuu
tory. proof.
ll. Copies of records, etc, in public office. 25. Production of books, papers. etc.
12. Land office registers, etc. 26. Insppction and copy, when ordered

13. Land office certificates. 27. Proof of service ofprocess or notice.

14. Corporate acts proved by sworn copy. 28. All notices in writing. service.

15. Legislative acts of any state or terri- 29. Filing of clerk presumptive evidence.
tory.

(4487) § 1. There_shall be no difference in evidence between
sealed and unsealed writings, and every writing not sealed shall
have the same force and effect that it would have if sealed. A
writing under seal therein, may, thereforee, be changed, or altogether discharged, by a writing not under seal. An agreement in
writing, without a seal, for the compromise or settlement of a
debt, is as obligatory as if a seal were affixed.

(4488) § 2. The execution of an instrument is the subscribing
and delivering it, with or without afiixing a seal.

(4489) § 3. Recitals in any written instrument shall have no
greater effect than they have heretofore had in writings not under
seal. (4490) § 4. The acts of the legislature of any state or territory, or of any country subject to thejurisdiction of the United States,
shall be authenticated by having the seals of such state, territory, or country affixed thereto. The records and judicial proceed'ings of the courts of any state or territory, or of any such country,

shall be proved or admitted in any other court within the United
States by the attestation of the clerk and the seal of the court
annexed, if there be a seal, together with a certificate of thejudge,
chief justice or presiding magistrate, that the said attestation is in
due form. And the said records and judicial proceedings authen-'
ticated, shall have such faith and credit given to them in every
court within the United States as they have by law or usage in the
courts of the state or territory, from which they are taken.

(4491) § 5. All records and examplifications of books, which
may be kept in any public office of any state or territory, or of
any country subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, not
appertaining to a court, shall be proved or admitted in any court
or office in any other state or Territory, or in any such country,
by the attestation of the keeper of said records or books,
and the seal of his office annexed, if there be a seal, together
with a certificate of the presiding justice of the court of the
county, parish or district in which such office may be kept. or of
the Governor, or Secretary of the Territory,‘ the Chancellor, or

keepers of the great seal of the state or territory, or country, that

"the said attestation is in due form, and by the proper officers. If
the said certificate is given by the presiding justice of the court,
it shall be further authenticated by the clerk or prothonotary of
the said court, who shall certify, under his hand and seal of his office, that the said presiding justice is duly commissioned and qualified; or if given by such Governor, Secretary, Chancellor, or keeper of the great seal, it shall be under the great seal of the state,
territory, or country aforesaid in wh'ich it is made. And the said
records and exemplifications, so authenticated, shall have such
faith and credit given to them in every court and office within the
United States, as they have by law or by usage in the courts or
offices of the state or territory, or country as aforesaid, from which
they are taken. ‘

(4492) § 6. The printed statute books of the several states
land territories of the United States, purporting to be printed
under the authority of those states and territories, without further
proof, shall be presumptive evidence, in all courts, of the legislative acts, public or private, of those states or territories respectively.

V (4493) § 7. Copies of the proceedings and judgments of any

‘justice of the peace of any state or territory of the United
States, or of the District of Columbia, certified by the justice
or justices, under his or their hands and seals, before whom
the proceedings were bad or judgment rendered, or their successors in office, or other justices having legal custody thereof, that
the same are true and complete copies of the proceedings or judgments, with the certificate of the clerk or prothonotary of any
court of record of the county or district where said justice orjustices
shall hold his or their office or offices, certifying, under the
seal of said court, that the justice or justices was or were at the
time when the proceedings were had or judgments rendered, and
when the copy was taken, duly commissioned and qualified to act
as such, shall be admissible as evidence in any of the courts of
this Territory.

(4494)  8. Copies of the proceedings and judgments of any
justice of the peace of this Territory, certified under his hand,
or under the hand of the justice who may have the legal custody
thereof, as true aud complete copies of such proceedings or judgments, shall be received as evidence in the several courts of this
Territory.

(4495) § 9. Certificates or instruments, either printed or written, purporting to be the official act of a notary public of this
Territory, of the District of Columbia or of any other state or territory_ of the United States, and purporting to be under the seal
and signature of such notary public, shall be received as presumptive evidence of the official character of such instrument and of
the facts therein set forth.

' (4496) § 10. The certificate of the Secretary of the Territory,
under the seal of the Territory, stating the time when any act or
acts of the Legislative Assembly were deposited in his office, or
deposited in the office of the clerk of any district or probate court

in this Territory, as shall appear from the certificate or receipt of
any such clerk, shall be admissible in all the courts of this Territory as evidence of the facts stated in the Secretary's certificate.

(44.97) 5’ 11. Exemplifications or copies of record, and records
of deeds and other instruments, or of office books or parts thereof,
and ofiicial bonds which are kept in any public office in this Territory, shall beproved or admitted as legal evidence in any court
or office in this Territory, by the attestation of the said records or
books, deeds or other instruments, or official bonds, that the same
are true and complete copies of the records, bonds, instruments or
books, or parts thereof in his custody, and the seal of office of said
keeper thereto annexed, if there be a seal, and if there be no
official seal, there shall be attached to such attestation, the
certificate of the clerk, and ‘the seal of the district or probate
court of the proper county where the keeper resides, that
such attestation is made by the proper officer.

(4498) § 12. The register, catalogue, tract book, plat book,
and description of lands kept by any land officer of the United
States located in this Territory and copies thereof duly certified as
true and complete by their proper keeper, and copies duly cetified
by the proper officer of the Territory as true and complete copies
from said original documents or from copies of the same legally
deposited in the office of the proper officer shall be admissible in
evidence in civil actions in all the courts of this Territory, and
shall be taken and held as prima jade evidence of the truth of
their contents.

(4499) § 13. Every certificate of purchase at a land office of
the United States shall be prima ferric’ evidence of legal title to
the land therein described. . _

(4500) § 14. The acts and proceedings of corporations may
be proved by a sworn copy of the record of such acts and proceedings. The oath shall state that such transcript is a true and
full copy of the original, and that such original has remained unaltered from its date, to the best of deponent's_ knowledge and
belief. Such sworn copies shall be received as evidence in all
cases where the original would be evidence.

(4501) § 15. Every act of the legislature of any one of the
states or territories of the United States, certified by the Secreretary, and having the seal of the state or territory affixed thereto, shall be deemed authentic, and receive full faith and credit
when offered in evidence in any court within this Territory.

(4502) § 16. All patents issued by the United States conveying real estate in this Territory, and the records of such patents
as have been duly recorded, shall be taken and received as competent evidence in all the courts of this Territory; and all Sllch
patents that have not been recorded may be recorded as other
deeds and conveyances are now recorded by «law; and 5“°_h
record shall be competent evidence in all the courts of tlie Territory. _

(4503) § 17. The record of all patents and all certificates of,
purchase, and all other evidence in writing of the sale of real
estate, whether issued by the United States or by _this TerritorY»

or made by any person or corporation, and all duly certified copies
of such record, shall be admissible in evidence in all courts
and places with the same force and effect as if the original was
produced.

(4504) § 18. The records and judicial proceedings of the several courts of record of or within the United States or the territories thereof shall be admittedin the courts within this Territory as
evidence, by attestation or certificate of the clerk or prothonotary, and the seal of the court annexed, together with the seal-of
the chief justice or one or more of the judges, or the presiding
magistrate of any such court, that the person who signed the attestation or certificate was, at the time of subscribing it, the clerk
or prothonotary of the court, and that the attestation is in due
form of law; and the records and judicial proceedings, authenticated as aforesaid, shall have full faith and credit given to themin
any court within this Territory, as by law or usage they have in
the courts whence taken. .
, (4505) § 19. When notice is, in any action, proceeding, or
rule under execution or other matter required by the provisions of
law to be given by public agents in any newspaper, an affidavit of
the printer, annexed to a copy of the notice taken from the paper
in which it was published, may be filed in the clerk's office by the
person whose duty it was to cause the publication to be made.
Such affidavit must specify the county, the time when, and the paper in which the notice was published.

(4506) § 20. The original affidavit and copy of the notice

_filed pursuant to the provisions of the last section, and copies
thereof duly certified by the clerk, shall be presumptive evidence
in all cases and before every court of the facts contained in the
affidavit.

(4507) § 21. When an affidavit is taken in another state or

'Territory, and certified by the officer or justice of the peace
taking the same under his hand and the seal of office, if he have
any such seal, and attested by the clerk of the district or probate
court of the county where such officer exercises the duties of his
office, under the hand of the clerk and the seal of his court, the

clerk also certifying that the officer or justice of the peace is by s

the laws of said state or territory duly empowered to administer
oaths and affirmations and make affidavits, every such affidavit
shall be deemed sufiiciently authenticated and may be received
and used in any of the courts of this Territory.

_(4508) § 22. The unwritten or common law of any other of
the United States or of the territories thereof, may be proved
as facts by parol evidence; and the books ‘of reports of cases
adjudged in their courts may also be admitted in evidence of such
law.

11 (4509) § 23. The existence and tenor or effect of the laws of
any foreign country may be proved as facts by parol evidence, but
if it shall apear that the law in question is contained in a written
statute or code, the court may, in its discretion, reject any
evidence of such law which is not accompanied by a copy thereof.

(4510) § 24. If either party, at any time before trial, allow

the other an inspection of any writing, material‘ to the action,
whether mentioned in— the pleadings or not, and deliver to him a
copy thereof, with notice that he intends to read the same in evidence on the trial of the cause, it may be so read without proof
of its genuineness or execution, unless denied by aliidavit before
the commencement of the trial; if such denial be made of any
writing not mentioned in the pleadings, the court may give time
to either party to procure evidence, when necessary for the furtherance of justice. °

(4511) § 25. The court, or judge thereof, may, upon affidavit
of their necessity and materiality, upon motion, compel by order,
either party to produce, at or before_ the trial, any book, paper,
or document in his possession or power; the order may be made
upon application of either party, upon reasonable notice to the adverse party or his attorney. If not produced, parol evidence may
be given of its contents.

(4512)  26. The court, or a judge thereof, may, under proper
restrictions, upon due notice, order either party to give the other,
withina specified time, an inspection and copy of any book or
part thereof, paper, or document, in his possession, or under his
control, containing evidence relating to the merit_s of the actio_n
or the defense therein. If compliance with the order be refused,
the court, on motion, may exclude such evidence, or punish the
party refusing, or both.

(4513) § 27. The proof of the service of any process issued
by the court, or of any notice required to be served upon any
party, shall be as follows:

First. If served by the sheriff, his certificate thereof.

Second. By any other person, his affidavit thereof.

Third. In case of publication, a printed copy, with the affidavit of the printer, his foreman or clerk, or of any competent witness.

Fourth. The written admission of the defendant. The affidavit or admission must stat'e‘the time and place of service. .

(4514) § 28. In all cases where notice is required by this act,
it must be in writing, and may be served by the proper officer or

any other person. _
(4515) S 29. The clerk shall endorse upon every paper filed In

L

his office or in open court, and upon every process returned to him- or to the court, except summonses, the date of the filing and return; and the indorsement shall be presumptive evidence of the
time of .the filing and return.

ARTICLE I6.—WITNESSES.

SECTION. SECTION. _
1, Summons, service, 16. When _agent of decedent testifies;
2. Service by copy, when. restitution. _ '
3. No attachment except upon affidavit. I7. Husband and wife. _
4. Summons, how issued, what to con- 18. Assignor or grantor, pl'0VlSO.
min, 19. When executor or administrator com5. More than three, costs, exception. petent.
6 In the county, prepayment unneces- 20. Ex erts. _
sary, 21. Re igious belief; general moral char7. Out of county, prepayment neces- ‘ acter.
sary. 22. Credibility. _
8. Attachment for non-attendance. 23. Party producing not to impeach, ex9. When non‘—resident witness may de- ception.
mand fees. 24. Impeachment.
Io. Oath, form of. 25. Party may be examined.
11. Interpreters, pay of. 26. Time, before whom, notice.
12. Competent witnesses. 27. Attendance enforced; filing and readI3. Who are competent witnesses. mg.
14. When an executor or administrator is 4 28. Evidence rebutted.
party, proviso. 29. Penalty for refusing to attend.

15. When heirs or devisees are parties.

(4516) § 1. The clerk of the proper court shall issue a summons for witnesses upon the application of any party to the action.
The summons may be served by the party or any person, or by
the sheriff. The party, or any other person than the sheriff, shall
not be entitled to fees for the service. When a summons is

served by the sheriff, his return is proof of the service. When’

served by any other person. the service must be shown by affidavit.

(4517) § 2. Where a summons from any court of this Territory, for a witness can not be served by reading, on account of
the temporary absence of such witness from his last usual place of
residence within the jurisdiction of the officer having such process,
or when such witness, so conceals himself within such jurisdiction
that such process cannot be read to him, the same may be served
by leaving a copy thereof, certified to be a true one by such
officer at such residence; but in no case shall service by copy be
made when such officer has reasonable cause to believe that_ such
witness has removed his residence without such jurisdiction.

(4518) § 3. In no case shall an attachment issue against a

witness upon whom such service by copy only has been made ,until

the party applying therefore, or his attorney, shall make affidavit
in the court from which it is sought to be issued, that he has reasonable cause to believe, and does believe, that the witness against
whom the summons issued had knowledge of the service thereof
by copy in time to have obeyed its commands.

(4.519) § 4. The summons shall be issed and attested by the

‘clerk without seal, and one summons shall include all the witnesses required at the same time, residing in the same county.
(4520) § 5. If any party summon more than three witnesses

‘to prove the same fact, he shall pay the costs occasioned by the

additional number of witnesses, unless the court shall otherwise
order.

I (4521) § 6. Witnesses residing in the county where the court
IS held shall be compelled to attend in obedience to the summons

without payment or tender of fees being first made, unless he demand such fees at the time he is summoned.

(4522) § 7. A witness shall not be obliged to attend before a
court or judge out of the county where he resides, unless his legal
fees for travelling to and from the court, and one day's attendance

«are paid or tendered before or at the time of the service of th
summons. '

(4523) § 8. . The attendance of all witnesses when duly summoned and to whom fees have been paid or tendered in cases required by law, may be enforced by attachment.

(4524) § 9. At the commencement of each day after the first,
day, a witness attending a trial out of the county in which he re-'
sides shall be entitled to demand and receive the legal fees for
that day in advance. If not thus paid, he is not compelled to attend or remain as a witness.

(4525) § 10. _Before testifying, every"witness shall be sworn
to testify the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
The mode of administering an oath shall be such as may be most
consistent with and bindingupon the conscience of the person to

‘ whom the oath may be administered.

(4526) § 11. Interpreters may be sworn to interpret truly,
whenever necessary; and they shall receive the same fees and
mileage as witnesses.

(4527) § 12. All persons,»whether parties to or interested in the \
suit, shall be competent witnesses in a civil action or proceeding,
except as herein otherwise provided.

(4528) § 13. The following persons shall not be competent;
witnesses:

First. Persons insane at the time they are offered as witnesses,
whether they have been so adjudged or not.

Second. Children under ten years of age, unless it appears
that they understand the nature and obligation of an oath.

Third. Attorneys, as to confidential communications made_to
them in the course of their professional business, and as to advice
given in such cases.

Fourth. Physicians, as to matter communicated to them, as
such, by patients, in the course of their professional business, or
advice given in such cases. _ _

'Fifth. Clergymen, as to confessions or admissions made to
them in course of discipline enjoined at their respective churches.

Sixth. Husband and wife, as to communications made to each
other. Neither husband nor wife shall in any case be a. witness
against the other, except in a criminal prosecution for a crime committed one against‘ the other, or in acivil action or proceeding by
one against the other; but they may in all Civil 3I1dCI'1m"131 C3535
be witnesses for each other. ,

(4529) § 14. In suits or proceedings in which an executor orcc
administrator is a party, involving matters which occurred during :3:
the lifetime of the decedent, where a judgment or allowance may
be made or rendered for or against the estate represented by such
executor or administrator, any person who is a necessary party to
the issue or record, whose interest is adverse to such estate, Shall

I

not be competent witnesees as to any personal transaction or communication had with the deceased: Prom'zz’ezz’, /zowezrer, That in
cases where a deposition of such decedent has been taken, or he
has previously testified as to the matter, and his testimony or deposition can be used as evidence for such executor or administrator,
such adverse party shall be a competant witness for himself,
but only as to any matters embraced in such deposition or
testimony.

(4530) § 15. In all suits by or against heirs or devisees,
founded on a contract with or demand against the ancestor, to
obtain title to or possession of property, real or personal, of, or in
rights of such ancestor, or to effect the same in any manner,
neither party to such suit shall be a competent witness as to
any matter which occurred prior to the death of the ancestor.

(4531) § 16. When in any case an agent ofadecedent shall testify on behalf of an exebutor, administrator, or heirs, concerning
"any transaction, as having been had by him, such agent, with
a party to the suit, his assignor or grantor, and in the absence
of the decedent; or if any witness shall, on behalf of the executor, administrator, or heirs, testify to any conversation or
admission of a party to the suit, his assignor or grantor, as having
been had or made in the absence of the deceased; then the party
against whom such evidence is adduced, his assignor or grantor,
shall be competent to testify concerning the same manner. No
such person who shall have acted as an agent in the making or continuing of a contract with any person who may have died, shall be
a competent witness in any suit upon or involving such contract,
as to matters occurring prior to the death of such decedent, on behalf of the principal to such contract against the legal representatives or heirs of the decedent, unless he shall be -called by such
heirs or legal representatives. And in such case he shall be
a competent witness only or to matters concerning which he is
interrogated by such heirs or representatives. When.in any case,
a person shall be charged with unlawfully taking or detaining
personal property, or having done damage thereto, and such person by his pleading shall defend on the ground that he is executor, administrator, guardian, or heir, and as such has taken or detains the property, or has done the acts charged, then no person
shall be competent to testify who would not be competent if the
person so defending were the complainant; but when the person
complaining cannot testify, then the party so defending shall also
be excluded.

(4532) § 1'7. When the husband or wife is a party, and not a
competent witness in his or her own behalf, the other shall also
be excluded; except that the husband shall be a competent wit_ness in a suit for the seduction of his wife, but she shall not be
competent.

_ (4533) § 18. In all cases in which executors, administrators,
heirs, or devisees are parties, and one of the parties to the suit
shall be incompetent, as hereinbefore provided, to testify against
them, then the assignor or grantor of a party making such assignment or grant voluntarily, shall be deemed a party adverse to

the executor or administrator, heir o_r devisee, as the case may be:
Provz'a’ed, /zowezrer, That in all cases referred to the preceding
sections, the objection to the competency of such witnesses may
be waived. Or the court may, in its discretion, require any party
to a suit, or other person, to testify; and any abuse of such discretion shall be reviewable upon appeal.

(4534) § 19. In all actions by an executor or administrator, on
contracts assigned to the decedent, when the assignor is alive and
a competent witness in the cause; the executor, or administrator
and the defendant or defendants shall be competent witnesses as
to all matters which occurred between the assignor and the defendant or defendants, prior to notice of such assignment.

(4535) § 20. A witness who is an expert in any art, science,
trade, profession, or mystery may be compelled to appear and
testify to an opinion, as such expert, in relation to any matter,
whenever such opinion is material evidence, relevant to an issue
on trial before a court or jury without payment or tender of compensation other than the per diem_ and mileage allowed by law to
witnesses, under the same rules and regulations by which he-can be
compelled to appear and testify to his knowledgeof facts relevant
to the same issue.

(4536) § 21. No want of belief in a Supreme Being or in the]
Christian religion shall render a witness incompetent; but the want.
of such religious belief may be shown upon the trial. In all questions effecting the credibility of a witness, his general moral
character may be given in evidence.

(4537) § 22. Any fact which might heretofore be shown to

‘render a witness incompetent,.may be hereafter shown to effect

his credibility.

(4538) § 23. The party producing a witness shall not be allowed to impeach his credit by evidence of bad character, unless;
it is indispensable that the party should produce him, or in case of
manifest surprise, when the party shall have this right; but he
may, in all cases, contradict him by other evidence, and by showing that he has made statements different from his present testimony. '

(4539) § 2-1:. When a witness, whether a party to the record
or not, is cross examined, to lay the foundation of his impeachment by proof of an act or statement inconsistent with his testimony, and is asked if he did not do the a‘ct-or make the statement
and he answers that he does not recollect having done the act or
made the statement, the party thus laying the foundation for impeachment shall have the right to introduce evidence‘ of the act, or
statement in the same manner as if the witness had answered that
he had not done the act or made the statement. _

(4540) § 25. A party to an action may be examined as a
witness concerning any matter stated in the pleading, at the in- 0*
stance of the adverse party, or of any one of the several adverse
parties‘; for that purpose may be compelled, in the same manner,
and subject to the same rules of examination as any other witness, to testify either at the trial, or conditionally, or upon commission.

(4541) § 26. The examination instead of being had at the
trial may be had at any time before the trial, at the option of the
party claiming it, before any officer authorized to take depositions,
on a previous notice to the party to be examined and any other
adverse party of at least five days, unless for good cause shown,
the court order otherwise. But the ‘party to be examined before
trial shall not be compelled to attend in any other county than
that of his residence.

(4542) § 27. The attendance of the party to be examined may
be enforced and the examination shall be taken and filed as a
deposition in the cause and may be read by the party taking it,
at his option; but if not read, the party causing the examination
shall pay the costs thereof.

(4543) § 28. The evidence of the party thus taken may be rebutted by adverse testimony.

(4544) § 29. Any party refusing to attend and testify, as

'above provided, may be punished as for a contempt and his complaint, answer or reply may be stricken out. ,

ARTICLE I7.——OFFER BEFORE TRIAL.

SECTION. _ SECTION.
I. To allay judgment. 2. To confess judgment.

(4545) § 1. The defendant may, at any time before the trial,
serve upon the plaintifff an offer in writing, to allow judgment to
be taken against him for the sum or property, or to the effect
therein specified, with costs. If the plaintifff accept the offer in
court, in the presence of the defendant, or give notice of acceptance in writing within five days and before the trial, judgment
shall be entered accordingly. If the offer is not accepted, or
notice of acceptance be not given as above directed, the offer is
to be deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence, or
commented on before the jury; and if the plaintifff fail to obtain a
more favorable judgment, the defendant shall recover from the
plaintifff the costs occasioned subsequent to the time of the offer.

(4546) § 2. Before an action for the recovery of money is
brought against any person, he may go into the court of the
county of his residence, or of that in which the person having the
cause of action resides, and offer to confess judgment in favor of
such person, for a specified sum on the cause of action. Whereupon, if the person, having had notice that the offer would be
made, of its amount, and the time and place of making it, ten
days before the first day of any term of the court, does not at
such term accept the confession, and should afterward commence an action upon such cause, and not recover more than the
amount so offered to be confessed, he shall pay all costs of the
action; and on the trial thereof, the offer shall not be deemed to
be an admission of the cause of action or amount to which the
plaintifff is entitled, or be given in evidence.

ARTICLE I8.——TRIAL BY JURY.

SECTION. SECTION.
1. Action. when for issue and trial. 17. Calling talesmen.
2. Trial defined. 18. Manner of trial.
3. Order of trial 19. Exceptions to instructions.
4. When jury shall appear. 20. Argument.
5. Jury for regular panel. 21. View of property and place by jury.
6. Number ofjurors. 22. Deliberation ofjury.
7. Special jury. 23. Caution by court at each adjourn8. jury by agreement. ment
9. Struck jury by consent, 24. Further instructions, when had.
10. Struck jury upnn notice. 25. Cause again tried.
H. Selector when clerk interested. 26. Verdict written and signed.
12. Fees for striking. - 27. Verdict,- general or special.
13. Struck jury; continuance if parties 28. Jury may find special verdict.
consent. 29. special controls general.
14. Challenge for interest. 30- M0113)’ V'€1'diCtI5. Oath ofjurors_ 31.’ Verdict in replevin.

I6. Peremptory challenges.

(4547) § 1. Every action shall stand for issue and trial at the
first term after it is commenced, when the summons has been served
on the defendant ten days, and publication has been made for thirty
days before the first day of the term: Prow'a’ea', /zowever, That when
the complaint is filed, whether before or during any term of court,
the plaintifff may fix the day during such term, by indorsement
thereof upon the complaint at the time of filing the same on.
which the defendant shall appear; which day, when .50 fixed shall
be stated in the summons when issued, and the action shall be docketed in its order. And if summons shall be personally served ten
days before such day, or publication shall be made three weeks,
thirty days before such day, such action shall thereupon stand for
issue and trial at such term, and the court shall have jurisdiction
to hear and determine such action, as if summons had been served,
or publication made before the first day of the term, as hereinbefore provided. And if at any time, after the filing of the complaint, it shall be found that any party to the action has not been
properly notified, the plaintifff may file with the clerk, or indorse
on the complaint, a written request for such notice to be given,
naming therein the day of the pending or subsequent term on
which such party is required to appear to the action,‘ and summons
shall be issued or publication made accordingly in the proper
cases, as above provided. And if summons shall be personally
served ten days before such day, or publication made three weeks
successively thirty days before such day, such case shall thereupon
stand for issue and trial at such term, and the court shall have
jurisdiction to hear and determine such action as if summons» had
been served or publication made before the first day of the term,

as hereinbefore provided. _ _ _
(4548) § 2. The trial is a judicial examination of the issue,

whether of law or fact, in an action. _ __
(4549) § 3. The trial in each action shall be in the order in
which it stands upon the docket, unless the Court. '50!’ good “"53

shown, shall direct otherwise. —
(4550) § 4. The petit jury shall be summoned to aPPea" On’,
the first day designated for the trial of criminal business, and not

before. After the beginning of the trial term, the court shall

‘proceed to try the cases in their regular order; which trials shall
not be delayed or interrupted by the making up of issues. The
judge shall as far as practicable, so arrange the cases to be tried
by the court that the same may be tried after the discharge of the
jury; and such jury shall be immediately discharged when the issues requiring it shall be disposed of.

(4551) § 5. In any civil action where the parties are entitled
to a trial by jury, and either partyshall demand such trial, the
sheriff shall call a jury from the regular panel, except as hereinbefore provided. _

(4552) § 6. The number of jurors to try a civil action shall not
exceed twelve, nor be less than three. The parties may determine
the number ofjurors by agreement; and in case of their disagreement, the number shall be twelve.. °

(4553) § 7. The court shall have power when the business
thereof requires it, to order the empaneling of a special jury for

the trial of any cause.

(4554) § 8. The parties may agree upon thejurors to compose
a special jury, and notify the court thereof; and the court shall
thereupon, direct the sheriff to empanel such jury. if it can be done
without unreasonable delay of the cause.

. ‘ (4555) § 9. When both parties desire it, the court may direct
the sheriff to summon eighteen competent jurors, or a less number; and the plaintifff first, and then the defendant, shall strike out
one juror in turn until each has struck off six or more; and the
remaining jurors shall try the cause. Or the parties, when they
consent, upon being furnished with a list of jurors to be summoned,
may exercise the right to strike out any part of the names before

the jurors are summoned, and the remaining jurors only shall be '

summoned.

(4556) § 10. Whenever a struck jury shall be deemed necessary for the trial of any civil cause in anydistrict or probate court
of this Territory, it shall be lawful for either party to file with
the-clerk a demand for such jury; when it shall be the duty of
such clerk to give four days notice to both parties, or to their
attorneys, of the time of striking the same. At the time designated, said clerk shall attend at his office, and in the presence
of the parties or of such of them as shall attend for that
purpose shall select from the number of persons qualified to
serve as jurors within the county, forty such persons as he shall
think most indifferent between the parties and best qualified to
try such cause; and then the party requiring such jury, his agent
or attorney, shall first strike off one of the names, and then
the opposite party, his agent or attorney, another, and so on
alternately, until each shall have struck out twelve. If either
party shall not attend in person or by attorney, it shall be the
duty of the clerk to strike out for the party not attending. \\«'hen
each party shall have stricken out twelve names as aforesaid, the
clerk shall make a fair copy of the names of the remaining sixteen
persons. and immediately thereafter, issue process, directing the
sheriff of the county to summon said sixteen persons, as jurors

struck for the trial of such cause, stating the day for which it
is set for trial; and such sheriff shall, thereupon summon accordingly. But in all cases, it shall be necessary to strike
such jury at least five days previous to the day at which said
case is set for trial on the docket, and two days service of the

.process by the sheriff shall be held sufficient. And upon the

trial of the cause, the jury so struck shall be called as they stand
upon the panel, and the first twelve of them whoshall appear, and
are not challenged for cause or set aside by the court, shall be the
jury, and ‘shall be sworn to try the said issue : ‘Pro?/z'zz’ezz’, /tower/cr,
That unless at least one-half of such struck jury shall have been
summoned and shall be in attendance and such cause is called for
trial, the case shall be tried by the regular petit jury as other
cases.

(4557) § 11. If the clerk of such court shall be interested in
the cause, or related to either of the parties, or does not stand indifferent between them, in every such case the judge entitled to
try said cause may in vacation or term time name some judicious
and disinterested person to strike the jury, and to do and perform
allthings required to be done by such clerk relating to the striking
of such jury.

(4558) § 12. The party requiring such struck jury shall pay
the fees for striking the same, and one dollar and twenty-live
cents each day for each juror so attending, and shall not have an
allowance therefore in the taxation of costs, unless the court shall
be of . opinion that the cause required such special jury; in which
last case, tbe extraordinary expense shall be taxed in the bill of
costs. If the court upon motion of either party, shall have ordered
a struck jury, then the costs thereof shall abide the event of
the suit.

(4559)  13. A struck jury for the trial of the cause at any
term of the court may be continued with the continuance of the
cause, and be summoned in as jurors, at a subsequent term, provided both parties consent thereto, but not otherwise.

(4560) § 14. It shall be sufiicient cause for challenge to a
juror, that he is interested in another suit, begun or contemplated,

involving the same or a similar matter.
(4561) §' 15. Before »the commencement of the trial an oath

.must be administered to each juror, that he will well and truly

try the matter in issue between the parties, and a true verdict
give, according to the law and the evidence. ‘

(4562) § 16. In all cases where the jury consists of six or
more persons, each party shall have three peremptory challenges.

(4563) § 1'7. VVhen the regular panel is exhausted, or is in-,
sufficient from any cause, the sheriff shall call the, bystanders, or
fill the jury in such a manner as the court may direct.

(4564) 5 1'8. VVhen the jury is sworn, the trial shall proceed‘
in the following order, unless the court, for special reasons, otherWise directs: _

First. The party upon whom rests the burden of the issue may
briefly state his case and the evidence by which he expects to

sustain it.

Second. The adverse party may then briefly state his defense
and the evidence he expects to offer in support of it.

Third. The party on whom rests the burden of the issues must
first produce his evidence; the adverse party will then produce
his evidence, which may be rebutted.

Fourth. VVhen the evidence is concluded, and either party desires special instructions to be given to the jury, such instructions
shall be reduced to writing., numbered and signed by the party or
his attorney asking the same, and delivered to the court.

Fifth. Before the'argument of the cause, the court shall give
general instruction to the jury, which shall be in writing, and be
numbered and signed by the judge.

Sixth. Vi/here either party asks specialinstructions to be given
to the jury, the court shall either give each instruction as requested, or positively refuse to do so; or, give the instructions with a
modification, in such manner that it shall distinctly appear what
instructions were given, in whole or in part, and, in like manner
those refused, so that either party may except to the instructions
as asked for, or as modified, or to the modification. All instructions given by the court must be signed by the judge, and filed.
together with those asked for by the parties, as a part of the record. The instructions shall not be entered at large on the final
record, unless either party may wish to remove the cause to a district court. _

(4565) § 19. A party excepting to the giving of instructions.
or the refusal thereof, shall not be required to file a formal bill of
exception; but it shall be sufiicient to write on the margin, or at
the close of such instruction, "refused and excepted to,” or “given, and excepted to," which memorandum shall be signed by the
judge, and dated.

(4566) § 20. The parties may either submit or argue the case
to the jury. In the argument, the party having the burden of the
issue shall have the opening and closing, but shall disclose in the
opening all the points relied on in the cause; and if in the closing
he refer to any new point or fact not disclosed in the opening.
the adverse party shall have the right of replying thereto, which
reply shall close the argument in the case. '

(4567) § 21. Whenever in the opinion of the court, it is proper for the jury to have a view of the real or personal property
which is the subject of litigation, or of the place in which any material fact occurred, it may order them to be conducted in a body
under the charge of a sworn )fiicer, to the place, which shall be
shown to them by some person appointed by the court for that
purpose. While the jury are thus absent, no person, other than
the person so appointed shall speak to them on any subject connected with the trial.

(4568) § 22. \Vhenever acase is finally submitted to the jury.
they may decide in court, or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they must be kept together in some convenient place, under
the charge of a sworn officer, until they agree upon a verdict or
are discharged by the court, subject to the discretion of the court
to permit them to separate temporarily and at their meals. The

otiicier having them under his charge shall not suffer any communication to be made to them, or make any himself, except to ask
them if they have agreed upon their verdict, unless by order of

the court; and he shall not,before the verdictis rendered,communicate to any person the state of their deliberations or the verdict
agreed upon, where there is a panel of twelve jurors nine may return a verdict.

(4569) § 23. If the jury are permitted to separate, either during the trial or after the cause is submitted to them, they must be
admonished by the court that it is their duty not to converse with
each other, or suffer themselves to be addressed by any other person, on any subject of the trial; and during the trial, that it is
their duty not to form or express among themselves an opinion
thereon, until the cause is finally submitted to them.

(4570) § 24. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if
there is a disagreement between them as to any part of the testimony, or if they desire to be informed as to any point of law
arising in the case, they may request the oiiicer to conduct them
into the court, where the information required shall be given in
the presence of, or after notice to, the parties or their attorneys. 5

(4571) § 25. In all cases where the jury are discharged
during the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, it may
be tried again immediately or at a future time, as the court may
direct.

(4572) § 26. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict,
it must be reduced to writing and signed by the foreman; and:
when returned into court the foreman shall deliver the verdict and
either party may poll the jury. ' If four jurors dissent from the
verdict, they shall again be sent out to deliberate.

(4573) § 27. The’ verdict of the jury is either general or
special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce gen- '
erally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintifff
or defendant. A special verdict is that by which the jury find
facts only, leaving judgment thereon to the court.

(4574) § 28. In all actions, the jury, unless otherwise direct-S
ed by the court, may, in their discretion, render a general or A
special verdict; but the court shall, at the request of either party,
direct them to give a special verdict in writing upon all or any
of the issues; and in all cases, when requested by either party,
shall instruct _them, if they render a general verdict, to find
specially upon particular material questions of fact, to be plainly
stated in writing. This special finding is to be recorded with the
verdict.

(4575) § 29. When the special finding of facts is inconsistent ,,
with the general verdict, the former shall control the latter. and
the court shall give judgment accordingly. '

(4576) § 30. In actions for recovery of money, the jury must
assess the amount of the recovery.

(4577) § 31. In actions for the recovery of specific personal”
Property, the jury must assess the value of the property, as also
the damages for the taking or detention, whenever, by their

verdict, there will be a judgment for the recovery or return of the
property.
ARTICLE I9.-—TRIAL BY COURT.

SI-:c'rIoN. SEf:'l‘ION.
I. Jury, how waived. 3. Rules of trial.
2. Special findings by court.

(4578) § 1. The trial by jury may be waived by the parties,
in all actions in the following manner:

First. By failing to appear at the trial.

Second. By written consent in person, or by attorney, filed
with the clerk.

Third. By oral consent in open court, entered on the record.

(4579) § 2. Upon trials of question of fact by the court, it
shall be necessary for the court to state its finding, except generally for the plaintifff or defendant, unless one of the parties request it, with a view of excepting to the decision of the court
upon the questions of law involved in the trial; in which case, the
court shall first state the facts in writing, and then the conclusions of law upon them, and judgment shall be rendered accordingly. And whenever any issue of law or fact is submitted to the
court for trial, and the judge shall take the same under advisement, the judge shall not, except in case of severe illness of himself or family, hold the same under advisement for more than
sixty days; and, if the court wherein said issue arose be not then
in session, he shall File his determination therein, in writing, with
the papers in the case.

(4580) § 3. The provisions’ of this chapter respecting trials

'by jury apply, so far as they are applicable. to trials by the

court.
ARTICLE 2o.—-TRIAL OF AGREE!) CASES.
SECTION. SECTION. ‘- Agreed C3535. =1lT1daVit- 3. Judgment, how enforced, costs.
2. Record.

(4581) § 1. Parties shall have the right in all cases, eitherwith
or without process, by agreement to that effect, to submit any
matter of controversy between them to the court that would otherwise have jurisdiction of such cause, upon an agreed statement of
facts. to be made out and signed by the parties; but it must appear by aiiidavit that the controversy is real and the proceedings
in good faith, to determine the rights of the parties; whereupon
the court shall proceed to try the same, and render judgment as
in other cases.

(4582) § 2.. The statement of the case, the submission and
the judgment shall constitute the record.

(4583) § 3. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if it had been rendered in an action; and in like manner

shall be with costs, subject to an appeal, unless otherwise provided
In the submission’. ' '

ARICLE 2I.——TRIAL BY REFEREE.

S1-zcr ION . SECTION. '
1. What may be referred. * 3. How appointed.
2. Manner oftrial and finding. 4. Referees, compensation of.

(4584) § 1. All or any of the issues in the action, except in
actions for divorce and for the nullification of marriage whether
those issues be of fact or of law, or both, may be referred:

First. Where the trial involves the examination of accounts,
and the items controverted by the pleadings are numerous.

Second. In any other civil action upon peremptory order of
the court, or by accounts of parties in open court, or by stipulation filed in the office of the clerk. ,

Third. In all actions where a jury have twice disagreed a reference shall be made. '

(4585) § 2. The trial by referees is conducted in the same
manneras a trial by the court. They shall have the same power:
to grant adjournments as the court may upon such trial. If required, they must state the facts found and the conclusi_ons of law
separately and their decisions must be given and may be excepted
to and reviewed in like manner. . g

(4586) § 3. In all cases of reference, the parties may agree
upon a suitable person or persons not exceeding three, and the
reference shall be ordered accordingly; and if the parties do not
agree, the court shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding
three who shall be free from exception. . (4587) § 4. The referee or referees, shall each receive such
compensation as the court shall direct, to be paid by the prevailing
party before the report is filed, and recorded as costs in the action.

ARTICLE 22.—NEW TRIAL.

SECTION. , SECTION.

1. Causes for. 4- Mann“ ‘ff 3PP]Yl“g2. Small damages no grounds. 5. Causes discovered after term.

3. Motion, when made.

(4588) § 1. A new trial may be granted in the following
cases:

First. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or
prevailing party, or any order of court, or abuse ofdiscretion, by
which the party was prevented from having afair trial.

Second. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party.

Third. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could

not have guarded against.

Fourth. Excessive damages.
Fifth. Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery,

whether too large or too small, where the action is upon a contractor for the injury or detention of property. '
Sixth. That the verdict or decision is not sustained by sufiicient evidence, or is contrary to law.

Seventh. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party
applying, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial.

Eighth. Error of law occurring at the trial and excepted to by
the party making the application. And the court in granting new
trials, may allow the same at the costs of the party applying therefore, or on the costs abiding the event of the suit, or a portion of
the costs, as the justice and equity of the case may require, taking -into consideration the causes which may make such new trial

necessary.

(4589) § 2. A new trial shall not be granted on account of the
smallness of the damages in actions for an injury to the person or
reputation, nor any other action where the damages shall equal
the actual pecuniary loss sustained. '

(4590) § 3. The application for a new trial maybe made at
any time during the term at which the verdict or decision is rendered; and if the verdict or decision be rendered on the last day
of the session of any court, or on the last day of any term, then on
the first day of the next term of such court, whether general,
special or adjourned. c .

(4591) § 4. The application must be by motion upon written
cause filed at the time of making the motion. The cause mentioned in the second, third and seventh clauses of section
4588 must be sustained by affidavit showing their truth.

(4592) § 5. Where causes for new trial are discovered after
the term at which the verdict or decision was rendered, the application may be made by a complaint filed with the clerk, not later
than the second term after the discovery, on which a summons
shall issue, as on other complaints, requiring the adverse party to
appear and answer. The application shall stand for hearing at
the term to whic_h the summons is returned executed, and shall be
summarily decided by the court upon the evidence produced by
the parties. But no such application shall be made more than one
year after the final judgment was rendered.

ARTICLE 23.-—jUDGMEN'I‘.

SECTION. - SECTION.
I. On general verdict. 28. Costs how apportioned.
2. On special verdict. - 29. VVhen suits can be joined, costs i
3. On dpleadings, notwithstanding ver- one only.
ict. 30. When costs adjudged before fin:
4. When plaintifff is barred as to part. judgment.
5. ‘ Against part of plaintifffs or defend- 31. Costs of transcript.
ants. 32. Fee bills.
6. Against defendants, when joint or 33. Except divorce, when opened.
several. 34. Notice of application.
, 7. Defendants all served, judgment 35. Bona tide purchaser not affected.
against part only. 36. How assigned.
8. Set-off, judgment for excess. 37. Payment to assignar, when valid.
9. Judgment in replevin. 38. Execution, when issued and indorsed
10. Proof and assessment on default. 39. Assignee may maintain action.
11. On mortgage or lien final. 40 Delivery bond; suit on judgment.
12. In foreclosure, sale ordered. 4!. Lien upon real estate, ten years.
13. Without relief, when separate. 42. Transcript to another county.
14' Against officers, when without relief 43. Lien of such judgment.
or stay. ‘ 44. Transcript fromjustice.
15. On bonds. when without relief. 45. Recording, docketing, lien.
16. Entry, what it shall specify. 46. Execution, how obtained.
I7.- Satisfaction. 47. Review of, by whom, exception.
18. Endorsement of payment on record, 48. For What had. limit Of mingetc., effect. 49. For new matter, verified, contents.
I9. Judgment docket, Contents. 50 Stay; bond. .
20. Entry of stay of execution. 51. Notice of filing, 155118.
21. Record open to all. 52. Judgment. C0SlS22. Neglect of clerk to enterjudgment, 53. Death of judgment-debtor; heirs, etc.
etc,, liability. 54. Affidavit of judgment—debtor.
23. Who may confess judgment. 55. Service of summons, issue; trial,
24. Debt how stated, release of error. 0Fd€!'- _
. Confession by attorney, affidavit. 56' Death of one joint judgment debtor.
26. Non-resident to file cost bond.
27. Costs. l

(4593) § 1. When a trial by jury has been had, and a general
verdict rendered the judgment inust be in conformity to the
verdict.

(4594) § 2. Where the verdict is special, or where there has
been a special finding on particular questions of fact, the court
shall render the proper judgment.

(4595) § 3. When upon the statements in the pleadings, one]
party is by law entitled to judgment in his favor, judgment shall
be so rendered by the court, though a verdict has been found
against such party.

(4596) § 4. In actions against two or more defendants, where,
the plaintifff is barred by the provisions of this act as to one or:
more of the defendants, and is entitled to recover against others
for any cause, judgment shall be rendered against those liable and
not for those not liable._ _

(4597) § 5. Judgment may be given for or against one or
more of several plaintifffs, and for or against one or more of s_ev-f
eral defendants; and it may, when the justice of the case requires
it, determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each side as between themselves.
(4598) § 6. In a suit against several defendants, the courtd

may. in its decision, render judgment against one or more of them, 5‘
leaving the action to proceed against the others whenevera several judgment is proper.

(4599) § 7. Though all the defendants have been summoned,

judgment may be rendered against any of them severally, when ‘

the plaintifff would be entitled to judgment against such defendants if the action had been against them severally,

(4600) -§ 8. If a set-off established at the trial exceed the
plaintifff's claim so established, judgments shall be rendered for
the excess; or if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any
other affirmative relief, judgment may be given therefore.

(4601) § 9. In an action to recover the possession of personal
property, judgment for the plaintifff may be for the delivery of the
property, or the value thereof in case a delivery cannot be had,
and damages for the detention. VVhen the property has been delivered to the plaintifff and the defendant claims a return thereof,
judgment for the defendant may be for the.return of the property,
or its value in case a return cannot be had, and damages for the
taking and withholding of the property.

(4602) § 10. If the taking of an account, or the proof of a
fact, or the assessment of damages is necessary to enable the
court to pronounce judgment upon a failure to answer, or after a
decision of an issue of law, the court may take the accounts, hear
the proof and in actions founded on contract, assess the damages,
or may refer the same to a commissioner, or may direct the same
to be ascertained or assessed by a jury.

(4603) § 11. It shall not be necessary in any action upon a
mortgage or lien to give time for the payment of money, or for
doing any other act, but final judgment may, in such cases, be
given in the first instance.

(4604) § 12. In the foreclosure of a mortgage, the sale of the
mortgaged property shall in all cases be ordered.

(4605) § 13. When a judgment is to be executed without relief from appraisement laws, it shallbe so ordered in thejudgment.
When the plaintifff has included in one action demands subject to
the appraisement laws with demands made payable without any relief from appraisement laws, the court may render separate judgments upon such demands.

(4606) § 14. Hereafter all judgments recovered against any
sheriff, constable, or public officer, administrator, executor, or any
other person or corporation, or the sureties of any or either of them,
for money collected or received in a'judiciary capacity; or for a
breach of any official duty; or for money or other article of value
held in trust for another, shall be collectable without stay of execution or benefit of the violation or appraisement laws of this
Territory. ‘

(4607) § 15. Hereafter all judgments recovered upon bonds,
written undertakings, or recognizances executed in any legal proceedings, civil or criminal, shall be collectable without relief from
valuation or appraisement laws of the Territory of Oklahoma.

‘ (4608) § 16. The judgment must be entered on the order
book, and specify clearly the relief granted or other determination of the action.

(4509) § 17. Satisfaction of a judgment or credits thereon
may be ordered, for sufiicient cause, upon notice and motion.

(4610) § 18. Every indorsement of payment, satisfaction, or
release in whole or part, upon the record or margin thereof of any
judgments or decree, or upon any execution or order of sale issued
thereon, signed by the judgment-plaintifff or his attorney-in-fact;
or by the assignee of such judgment-plaintifff (whose assignment
is upon or annexed to the record of such judgment or decree and
attested by the clerk.) when attested by the clerk upon the record
of such judgment or decree; or by the sheriff upon such execution
or order of sale,—shall operate as a satisfaction or release of such
judgment or decree, or of such part thereof so indorsed as paid,
satisfied, or released in favor of subsequent purchaser or lien holders in good faith. And when such satisfaction, payment, or release is entered by the attorney-in-fact shall be ‘noted on the margin of the record or the execution, as the case may be; and such
power of attorney thall be recorded in the miscellaneous records
of the recorder’s office. ,

(4611) § 19. The clerk of every court of record shall keep a
docket in which he shall enter within thirty days after each term
of court in alphabetical order a statement of each judgment rendered at such term containing:

First. The names at length of all the parties.

Second. The amount of the judgment and costs and date of its
rendition. I

Third. If the judgment be against several persons, the statement shall be repeated under the name of each defendant in alphabetical order.

(4612)  20. Recognizances of bail for stay of execution shall
be entered in such docket immediately after the taking or returnc
thereof, specifying the judgment and its amount, the date of recognizance and names of bail. _

(4613) § 21. Such docket shall be a record, and open during [4
the usual hours of transacting business to the examination of any
person desiring it. _ (4614)  22. Every clerk «neglecting to enter judgment ‘or?
recognizance, as herein required, shall be liable to any person in- {}
jured for the amount of damages, sustained by such neglect, to be
recovered in an action against the clerk alone, or upon his official
bond against him and his sureties.

(4615) § 23. Any person indebted, or against whom a cause
of action exists, may personally appear in a court of competent:
jurisdiction, and, with the consent of a creditor or person having
such cause of action, confess judgment thereof; whereupon, judgment shall be rendered accordingly. _

(4616) § 24:. The debt or cause of action ‘shall be briefly 5,
stated in a writing to be filed and copied into the judgment. The °'
confession shall operate as a release of errors. _ .

-(4617) § 25. Whenever a confession of judgment is made by M
power of attorney or otherwise, the party confessing shflll. at the d2
time he executes such power of attorney or confesses judgment,

_ make affidavit that the debt is just and owing, and that such con-'

.fession is iiot made for the purpose of defrauding his creditors. The
affidavit shall be filed with the court. _ ,

(4618) § 26. Plaintiffs who are not residents of this Territory,
before commencing any action, shall file in the oHice of the clerk
a written undertaking, payable to the defendant, with surety to be
approved by the clerk for the payment of all costs which may accrue in the action to the proper officer or person; but the suitshall
not be dismissed for want thereof; if the plaintifff will file in open
court, upon being ordered to do so, such undertaking, which shall

include all previous costs, the sureties shall be liable in the first .

instance as parties.

(4619) § 2'7. In all civil actions the party recovering judgment shall recover costs, except in those cases in which a different
provision is made by law.

(4620) § 28. In actions where there are several plaintifffs or
several defendants, the cost shall be apportioned according to the
judgment rendered; and where there are several causes of action
embraced in the same complaint, or several issues, the plaintifff
shall recover costs'upon the issues determined in his favor and the
defendant shall recover costs upon the issues determined in his
favor.

(4621) § 29. VVhen the plaintifff shall at the same court, bring
several actions against the defendant upon demands which might
have been joined in one action, he shall recover costs only in one
action, unless it shall appear to the court that ‘the actions effect
different rights of interests, or other sufiicient reasons exist
why the several demands ought not to have been joined in one
action.

(4622) § 30. \Vhenever in any action an order shall be’ made
for the payment of any costs at any time before final judgment,
the court shall, upon motion of any person interested, render
judgment for the costs in favor of'the party entitled to receive the
same.

(4623)  31. When in any suit pending in this Territory, it
-shall be necessary to procure a transcript of anyjudgment or proceeding, or exemplification of any record as evidence in such action, the necessaryiexpense of procuring such transcript or exemplification shall be taxed as other costs in the cause and recovered
as in other cases.

(4624) § 32. Fee bills and executions may issue for the collection of costs in the proper cases against parties to the action,
relators, persons for whose use an action is brought and sureties on
undertakings for the payment of costs.

(4625) § 33. Parties against whom a judgment has been renidered without other notice than the publication in the newspaper

herein required, except in cases of divorce, may at any time within
five years after the rendition of the judgment, have the same
opened -and be allowed to defend. '

(4626) § 34. Before any judgment shall be opened such party
shall give notice to the original complainant, or his heirs, devisees,
executors, or administrators, of his intention to make application
to have the judgment opened as the court, in term, or the judge
thereof in vacation, shall require; and shall file a full answer 0
the original complaint and an affidavit stating that, during the

pendency of the action, he received no actual notice thereof in
time to appear in court and object to the judgment; and shall also
pay all such costs of action as the court shall direct.

(4627) § 35. If any property which was the subject of, or property sold under any judgment sought to be opened, as provided
in the last two preceding sections, shall have passed into the hands
of a purchaser in good faith, he shall not be affected by any proceedings consequent upon the opening of the judgment.

(4628) § 36. judgments and decrees of a court of record for
the recovery of money, and judgments obtained before a justice
of the peace, may be assigned by the plaintifff or complainant, and
the assignees thereof successively, on or attached to the entry of
such judgment or decree;,and the assignment, when attested by
the clerk of the court or such justice of the peace, shall vest the
title to such judgment or decree in each assignee thereof successivcly.

(4629) § 37. Payments or satisfaction on such judgment or,
decree to the assignors shall be valid, if~made before notice of‘
assignment to the judgment debtor, but not otherwise.

(4630) § 38. Inrcase of assignment, execution shall issue in“
the name of the original plaintifff or complainant, but shall be in- 1'
dorsed by the clerk or justice, to be for the use of the assignee.

(4631) § 39. Any action which the plaintifff or complainant inm
such judgment or decree might have thereon may be in the .name
of the assignee. ‘ . ‘

(4632) § 40. Bonds ,for the delivery of property levied upon
by virtue of such execution shall be to the judgment-plaintifff, forf;
the use of such asignee; and all suits and proceedings relating to
such judgment or decree, or against any officer on his bond for

. neglect of duty relating thereto, may be against, or on relation,

or for the use of such assignee, as the case may require.

(4633) § 41. All final judgments in the courts of record forcs,
the recovery of money or costs shall be a lien upon real estate and
chattels real, liable to execution in the county where judgment is
rendered, for the space of five years after the rendition thereof,
and no longer, exclusive of the time during which the party_may
be restrained from proceeding thereon by any appeal or injunction, or by the death of the defendant, or by agreement of the
parties entered of the record.

(4634) § 42. It shall be the duty of the clerk of any court of M’:
record of this Territory, rendering any judgment. to makt? Out 3
certified copy thereof, under the seal of such court.at the request
of any person interested; which copy may be filed 111 the OFFICC Of
the clerk of any district court of this Territory, and when so filed
shall be recorded and entered in the judgment docket 1“ the Same
manner as judgments ren‘dered in any such court. _ ‘

(4635) § 43. Such judgment, from the time of filing the copymilg
aforesaid, ‘shall be a lien upon all real estate, including chattels
real, of the judgment-debtor, situated in the county where filed.
as fully as if such judgment had been rendered thereon.‘

(4636)  44.. It shall be the duty of every justice of the “O1;
peace in this Territory, when requested, by the plaintifff Of his

agent, to make out and certify a true and complete transcript of
‘the proceedings and judgment in any cause upon any docket
legally in his possession. The plaintifff may file such transcript
in the office of the clerk of any court in this Territory.

(4637)  45. It shall be the duty of the clerk forthwith, to record the transcript in the order-book, and docket the judgment in
thejudgment-docket. The judgment set forth in the transcript
shall be a lien upon the real property of the defendant within the
county, to the same extent as judgments of the court, from the
time of filing the transcript.

(4638) § 46. Whenever the plaintifff shall also procure from
the justice a certificate that an execution has been issued upon the
judgment to the proper constable, and by him returned, indorsed
that no goods or chattels could be found sufhcient to satisfy the
judgment or a part thereof, and file the certificate with the clerk,
he shall record it in the order-book with the transcript, and. upon
the plaintifff or his agent also filing with the clerk his affidavit that
the judgment is unpaid in whole or in part, stating the amount
dne, he shall issue an execution upon the judgment, and indorse
the amount to be levied of principal, interest and cost; which execution shall be issued, served and returned in the same manner as
executions issued upon the judgment of the court.

(4639) § 47. Any person who is a party to a judgment or the
heirs, devisees, or personal representatives of a deceased party,
may frle in the court where such judgment is rendered a complaint
for a review of the proceedings and judgment. Any person under
legal disabilities may file such complaint at any time within one a
year after the disability is removed. But no complaint shall be
filed for a review of a judgment of divorce.

(4640) § 48. The complaint may be filed for any error of law

within three years; or for both causes, within one year after the
rendition of the judgment, and without leave of court.
(4641) § 49. When the complaint for a review is filed for new
4 matter discovered since the rendition of the judgment, it shall be
verified by the complainant, and" show that new matter could not
have been discovered.before judgment by reasonable diligence,
and that the complaint is filed without delay after the discovery.
(4642) § 50. At any time after filing the complaint, and before the final hearing the court may, upon application of the
plaintifff, stay all further proceedings on the judgment. When

proceedings are stayed, the court shall direct bond and sureties to
be given as in case of appeal.

(4643) § 51. The defendant shall be notified of the filing of
such complaint, and the parties shall proceed to form issues of law
and fact as in other cases.

(4644) § 52. Upon the hearing, the court may reverse or affirm the judgment in whole or in part, or modify the same as the
justice of the case may require and award costs according to the

rule prescribed for the awarding of costs in the Supreme Court, on
appeal.

(4645) § 53. In case of the death of any judgment debtor,
the heirs, devisees, or legatees of such debtor, or the tenant of
real property owned by him and effected by the judgment, and
the personal representatives of the decedent, may, after the
expiration of one year from the time of granting letters testimentary or of administration upon the estate of the decedent be
summoned to show cause why the judgment should not be enforced against the estate of the judgment debtor in their hands
respectively. '

(4646) § 54. The judgment-creditor, his representatives or
attorney, shall file an affidavit that the judgment has not been
satisfied. to his knowledge, or information and belief, and shall
specify the amountfdue thereon, and the property sought to be
charged.

(4647) § 55. A summons shall be issued,-served, and returned,
or publication may be made, as in other cases; issues shall be
formed and tried as an original suit and the court shall order the
property of the decedent in the hands of the heirs, devisees, or
legatees, or in the hands of the tenant of real property, to be sold
to pay the judgment and costs in the manner required by the
judgment.

(4648) § 56. When two or more persons shall be jointly liable on a contract or a judgment, and either of them shall die. his
estate, executors and administrators, shall be liable for the failure
to perform the contract and for the payment of the judgment, to
the same extent and in the same manner as if such contract or
judgment were joint and several.

ARTICLE 24.-APPEAL.

SECTION. SECTION. .
1. Exception defined. 28. Docketing, order of hearing.
2. Time of excepting, bill, proviso. 29. Proceedings each day signed by
3. Form of exception. Ffilef Judge4. Exception recorded, how noted. 30- Asslgifmeflt 0f€1'10l'sa 3n§W¢‘"5. Bill, how signed and filed, entry. 31- Questions Oi fact. 110W med6. Questions oflaw, how reserved. 32- Dismissal 9560‘ Of» new “PP”!-,
7. Time for appeal, supersedeas. - 33. Defect in form, etc., no ground for
3. Appeals to Supreme Court, proviso. , T€_V’€I‘5a1_- _ _
9. Appeals within one year, exception 34_ ()ne judge interested, others divided,
10. Part only barred, proceedings. pr°°°°d"‘§5- _ '.
Ii. A part may appeal, notice. ' 35. Reversal, remanding for new trial,
12. Death of party, appeal, notice. msm|Ct10"S- ‘
13. Death no abatement 36. Judgment of Supreme Lourt, dam14- A pea] durin term, Sta , bond, ages. _ _
P transcl-ipt_g Y 37. Notice to_clerk below, petition for
15. Failure to file record, execution, pl'0- T€h9a"m8- _ ,
vise, 38. Death, no effect after submission.
I6. Appeal after term, notice, filing. 39. C0sts- _
I7. Appeal after term, bond, supersedeas. 40. Fee for. transcript,_etc. ‘ ‘8- Bond, how appealed, stay. 41. Executions from bupreme Court, reI9. Certificate ofstay to clerk below turn. _
20. Length of stay_ 42. Money judgment, execution when:
2!. Executors, bond not required. 43. Order to inferior court for transcript
22. When taken. am! pai>erS- ,
23- Length of stay. 44. Reveisal. 355?‘ “P09 “de24. Transcript for appeal, 45. Restitution impossible, remedy of
25. Transcript, certificate, when evi- defendant.
dence omitted, 46. Restitution. _ _ _
26. Publication against non—residents. 47. Notice of motion for restitution.

37- When appeal stands for trial. 43- Hearing 3“d.l“dgm°“‘(4649) § 1. An exception is an objection taken to a decision
‘of the court upon a matter of law. '

(4650) § 2. The party objecting to the decision must except
at the time the decision is made; but time may be given to reduce the exception to writing, but not beyond the term, unless by
special leave of the court. It shall not be necessary to copy a
written instrument or any documentary evidence into a bill of exception, but it shall be sufficient to refer to such evidence, if its
appropriate place be'designated by the words “here insertz" Pro'z'z'dea', That if a motion for a new trial shall be filed in a cause in
which decision, so excepted to, is assigned as a reason for a new
trial, such motion shall carry such decision and exception forward
to the time of ruling on such motion, and time may be then
given by the court within which to reduce such exception to
writing. .

(4651) § 3. No particular form of exception is required. The
objection must be stated, with so much of the evidence as is necessary to explain it, and no more, and the whole as briefly as possible. .

(4652) § 4. VVhere the decision objected to is entered on the
record, andathe grounds of the objection appear in the entry, , the

exception may be taken by the party causing it to be noted at the

end of the decision that he excepts.

(4653) § 5. When the record does not otherwise show the
decision or grounds of objection thereto, the party objecting must,
within such time as may be allowed, present to the judge a proper
bill of exceptions, which, if true, he shall promptly sign and cause
it to be filed in the cause; if not true the judge shall correct, sign.
and cause it to be filed without delay. When so filed it shall be
a part of the record; and delay of the judge in signing and filing
the same, shall not deprive the party objecting of the benefit
thereof. The date of the presentation shall be stated in the bill
of exceptions, and the entry shall show the time granted if beyond
the term, for presenting the same.

(4654) § 6. Either party may reserve any question of law decided by the court during the progress of the cause, for the decision of the Supreme Court. Any question of law so reserved
may be taken to the Supreme Court upon the bill of exceptions
showing the decision, or, if it arises on demurrer, upon the pleadings involved. When the question so reserved is shown by the
bill of exceptions, the party excepting shall notify the court that
he intends to take the question of law to the Supreme Court upon
the bill of exceptions only; and the court shall thereupon cause
the bill of exceptions to be so made that it will distinctly and
briefly embrace so much of the record of the causeonly and the
statement of the court, as will enable the Supreme Court to apprehend the particular question involved.

_ (4655) .5 7. The party excepting may take the reserved question to the Supreme Court by appeal, at any time within one year
after the final judgment in the cause, and'not afterward. The appeal in such case shall not stay proceedings upon the judgment,
unless so ordered by the Supreme Court or some llld£IC thereof.

(4656) § 8. Appeals may be taken from the district courts to
the Supreme Court, by either party, from all final orders and judgments. (4657) § 9. Appeals in all cases hereafter tried must be taken
within one year from the time the judgment is rendered. In all
cases heretofore tried theymust be taken within one year from
the time this act takes effect; but the time allowed the appellant
by the pre-existing law shall not be enlarged. Where the appellant is under legal disabilities at the time the judgment is rendered, he may have his appeal at any time within one year after
the disability is removed. ’

_(4658) § 10. -The Supreme ourt, upon being satisfied that the
statute of limitations has barred a part only of the appellants,
may strike the names from the record, and proceed to affirm, or
reverse, or modify the judgments as to those appellants only who
are before the court. ‘

(4659) § 11. A part pf several co-parties may appeal; but in
such case, they must serve notice of the appeal upon all the other
co-parties, and file the proof thereof with the clerk of the Supreme
Bourt. Unless they appear and decline to join, they shall be regarded as having joined, and shall be liable for their due proportion of the costs. If they decline to join, their names may be
struck out on motion; and they shall not take an appeal afterward.
nor shall they derive any benefit from the appeal, unless from
the necessity of the case, except persons under legal disabilities.

(4660) § 12. In case of the death of any or all the the parties
to a iudgment before an appeal is taken, an appeal may be taken ‘
by, and notice of appeal served upon, the persons in whose favor
and against whom the action might have been revived, if death
had occurred before judgment.

(4661) § 13. The death of any or all parties shall not cause
the proceedings to abate; but the names of the proper persons be-‘,,
ing substituted, upon consent or upon notice, the cause may pro-_
ceedx

(4662) § 14. When an appeal is taken during the term at U
which judgment is rendered it shall operate as a stay of all furtheru
proceedings on the judgment, upon an appeal bond being filed by
the appellant, with such penalty and surety as the court shall approve, and within such time as it shall direct, payable to the appellee, with condition that he will duly prosecute his appeal and
‘abide by and pay the judgment and costs which may be rendered
or affirmed against him; and if the appeal is taken from a judgment of real property, or the possession thereof, by the party
against whom the judgment for the recovery is rendered, then the
condition of the bond shall further provide, that the appellant
shall also pay all damages which may be sustained by the appellee
for the mesne profits, waste or damage to the land during the pendency of the appeal; and if from a judgment for the recovery or
return of personal property, or for such property or ltS value, then
that if he deliver or return the property he will also pay the reasonable value of its use and any damage it may sustain during the

pendency of an appeal. The transcript shall be filed in the office
of the clerk of the Supreme Court within sixty days after filing the
bond.

(4663) § 15. In all cases appealed to the Supreme Court,
where bond shall have been filed in the court below in term and
execution therein stayed, and the appellants shall fail to file in the
office of the clerk of the Supreme Court the record of the cause so
appealed within the time required by law,’ the party in whose favor the judgment may be in the court below may have execution
thereon upon filing with the clerk of the proper court the certificate of the clerk of the Supreme Court showing that said record
was not so filed in proper time: Pro2rz'a’c'd. /zowezrer, That nothing in
in this section shall be so construed as to prevent any such appellant from filing the transcript and_ perfecting an appeal afterwards
according to law.

(4664) § 16. After the close of the term at which the judgment is rendered, an appeal may be taken by the service of a
notice in writing, on the adverse party or his attorney, and also
on the clerk of the court in which the proceedings were had, stating the appeal from the judgment or some specific part thereof:
or such appeals may be taken by procuring from the clerk of the
court a transcript of the record and proceeding in the suit, or so
much thereof as is embraced in the appeal. and filing the same in
the office of the clerk of the Supreme Court, who shall endorse
thereon the time of filing, and issue a notice of the appeal to the
appellate. \

(4665) § 17. An appeal taken after the close of the term shall
not stay executuion or other proceedings in the court below, unless an order to that effect be granted by the Supreme Court, in
term, or any judge thereofjin term or vacation, which shall be indorsed on the transcript. The court or judge, shall, at the time
of making the order, direct that the appellant shall give bond to
the appellee, with condition as required when an appeal is taken
during the term at which the judgment is rendered. '

(4666) § 18. The appeal-bond and surety may be approved be

. the clerk of the Supreme Court or by the clerk of the court below.
And upon the nling of the bond, execution and all other proceedings on the ‘judgment in the court below shall be stayed; and if the
execution has issued, the clerk shall notify the sheriff of the
appeal and order to stay proceedings, and the execution shall
be forthwith returned, and any levy made shall be relinquished.

(4667) § 19. Whenever an order to stay execution of a judgment is granted, the clerk of the Supreme Court shall issue a certificate thereof to the clerk of the court below.

(4668) § 20. Such order shall operate until the termination
of the appeal, unless otherwise ordered by the court of a judge
thereof

“‘ (4669) § 21. lixecutors, adminisfrators and guardians, may
have an appeal and stay of proceedings in the court below without
giving an appeal.

" (4670) § 22. Such appeal may be taken at the term of the
court at which the order is made; or, when made in vacation, the

appeal may be taken at the time or during the next term. The
appeal shall_ not be granted until the appellant has filed an appeal
bond as in other cases of appeal.

(4671) § 23. Such appeal shall not stay proceedings upon the
order more than thirty days, unless the Supreme Court in term,
or some judge thereof, in term or vacation, shall otherwise order.

(4672) § 24. Upon the request of the appellant, or upon being
served with notice as aforesaid, and, in either case, upon the payment of the proper fees, the clerk shall forthwith make out and
deliver to the party, at his request, .or transmit to the clerk of the
Supreme Court, a transcript of the record in the cause, or so much
thereof, as the appellant in writing directs certified and sealed, to
which shall be appended the written directions of the appellant
above contemplated, if any. (4673) § 25. All proper entries made by the clerk, and all
papers pertaining to a cause, and filed therein (except a summons
for the defendant, where all the persons named in it have appeared to the action, and summons for the witnesses depositions, and
other papers which are used as mere evidence), are to be deemed
parts of the record; but a transcript of motions, affidavits, and
other papers, when they relate to collateral matters, and depositions; and papers filed as mere evidence shall not be certified,
unless made a part of the record by exception or order of court,
and directed to be certified by the appellant. Neither shall the
clerk certify any pleading first filed, when there is an amended
pleading of the same matter subsequently filed, embracing all the
pleadings First filed; and the amendments thereto, but shall certify
such amended pleading only. Every paper and pleading above
excepted may be part of the record by the exceptions or order
of the court, on motion. If the clerk should certify matter not
material to the determination of the appeal to the Supreme Court
may direct the person blamable therefore to pay the costs thereof:
Proz'z'a’ed, That when in any case an appeal is prosecuted upon the
question of the correctness of instructions given or refused, or the
modificationthereof, it shall not be necessary to set out in the
record all theievidence given in the cause, but it shall be sufficient
in the bill of exceptions to set out the instructions or modifications excepted to, with a recital of the fact that the same were applicable to the evidence in the case.

(4674) § 26. VVhenever it shall appear to the Supreme Court, (
\ by satisfactory proof, that the appellee in a cause appealed after‘

the close of the term is not a resident of this Territory and that a
notice of an appeal cannot be served upon the attorney of the record in the court below, the court may order that notice of the
pendancy of the appeal be given in some newspaper printed and
published in this Territory, for three weeks successively, after which
the court shall proceed in all respects as if the defendant had been

served with process.

(4675) § 27'. Every appeal shall stand for trial at the l’-II'St:

term of the Supreme Court after filing the transcript. When taken
during the term of the court below, and in all other cases, when notice has been served ten days, or publication made thirty days before the first day of the term. (4676) § 28. The clerk shall docket all appeals in the order
in which the transcripts are bled, and they shall be heard in the
same order, unless the court, for good cause shown, direct a different mode of hearing.

(4677) § 29. The proceedings of a court for every day of the
term shall be drawn up at full length by the clerk against the next
sitting of the court, and such corrections being made therein as
shall be necessary and right, they shall be signed by the chief
justice of the court.

(4678) § 30. No pleadings shall be required in the Supreme
Court upon an appeal, but a specific assignment of all errors relied
upon, to be entered on the transcript in law matters only, which

shall be assigned on or before the first day of the term at which‘

the cause stands for trial; and the appellee shall file his answer
thereto. . '

(4679) § 31. All questions of fact to be determined in the Supreme Courts shall be tried according to rules to be adopted by
the court.

(4680) § 32. No appeal shall be dismissed for any informality
or defect in the transcript or appeal bond, if the appellant
shall correct the informality or defect within reasonable time.
When an appeal has deen dismissed for want of prosecution, the
court may reinstate it at-the same time next term, good cause being shown. When any appeal has been dismissed, another appeal
may be taken. '

(4681) § 33. No judgment shall be stayed or reversed, in
whole or in part, by the Supreme Court, for any defect in form,
variance, or imperfections contained in the record, pleadings, process, entries, returns, or other proceedings therein, which by law
might be amended by the court below, but such defects shall be
deemed to be amended in the Supreme Court; nor shall any judgment be stayed or reversed, in whole or in part, where it shall appear to the court that the merits of the cause have been fairly tried .

and determined in the court below.

(4682) § 34. VVhenever. on the hearing of an appeal, one of
the judges of the Supreme Court has been of counsel in the cause,
or is otherwise incompetent to participate in the decision, and the
remaining judges are equally divided, the cause shall be continued
to the next term; and if then the judges shall be equally divided,
the judgment shall be afiirmed without costs and in such case,
each judge shall give his written opinion of each point in the case
arising upon the record, which shall be reported among the cases
d_ecided by the Supreme Court.

(4683) § 35. \Vhen thejudgment is reversed, in whole or in

"part, the Supreme Court shall remand the cause to the court below, with instructions for a new trial, when the justice of the case
requires it, but, if no new trial is required, with particular instructions relative to the judgment to be rendered and all modihcatrons thereof. And whenever any cause is reversed in the Supreme Court. in whole or in part, on appeal and sent back for

such further proceedings as may require a trial, if the opinion
and decision of the Supreme Court in such cause shall have been
deposited in the office of the clerk of the district court, ten days
or more before the first day of any term of such court, such cause

shall stand for trial at'such term; otherwise it shali. be continued
until the next term of such court.

(4684)_§ 36. The Supreme Court may reverse or affirm the

judgment below, in whole or in part, and remand the cause to the
court below, and the court shall decide all errors assigned. Of
the court affirm the judgment, damages may be assessed in favor
of the appellee, not exceeding ten per cent upon the judgment in
money judgments, and in any other cases in the discretion of the
court; and the court shall remand such causes for execution.

(4685) § 37. VVhen any cause is determined in the Supreme
Court, the clerk shall forthwith notify the clerk of the court below
that it is determined, and whether reversed or affirmed, in whole
or in part, or dismissed. At any time within sixty days after such
determination, either party may File a petition for a re-hearing; if
not so filed, the decision and instructions of the Supreme Court
shall be certified to the court below, unless otherwise ordered by
the court. ' _

(4686) § 38. If the death of any or all the parties occur after
the submission of the cause, judgment shall be rendered as at the
term at which the submission was made, without any change of
parties.

(4687) § 39. When a judgment is affirmed in whole, the appellee shall recover costs, and when the judgment is reversed in
whole, the appellant shall recover costs in the Supreme Court and
the court below, to the time of the first error for which the judgment is reversed, which shall be pointed out in the opinion of the
Supreme Court. In all other cases costs shall be awarded as the
court may deem right, following, as nearly as possible, the general
regulation for awarding costs. ' .

(4688) § 40. The fee paid for procuring the transcript, the
costs of serving the notice of appeal, and the printer's fee for
publication are a part of the costs of the Supreme Court.

(4689) § 41. Executions issued from the Supreme Court shall
be the same as those of other courts of record and shall be returnable as in othereases. '

(4690) § 42. In all cases appealed to the Supreme Court,
where the judgment below has been for the recovery of money,
and the same shall be fully and unconditionally affirmed in the Supreme Court, the clerk of the court below shall be authorized to
issue execution on said judgment as soon as the certified copy of
the opinion and judgment of the Supreme Court, so aliirming said
ludgment, shall be filed in his office.

(4691) § 43. Any appellate court shall have full power to compel any inferior court, board, or officer exercisingjudicial functions
or other person, to certify to such court a full and complete transcript of the records and proceedings of any such tribunal, board_.
Oliicer, or person, and the production of any paper, whenever It
shall be necessary for the proper determination of any cause Or

proceeding pending before the appellate court. The breach of
‘any order may be punished as a contempt.

(4692) § 44. The reversal of any judgment by virtue of which

. any real estate has been sold or transferred, or the, titles thereto

affirmed, shall not avoid the sale, transfer, or title, if the person to

be affected thereby shall be, or claim under, a purchaser in good

faith, and not a party to the record or attorney of any party.

(4693) § 45. In every case of a sale, transfer, or confirmation rof real estate upon execution or by judgment, where the defendant shall not have restitution of his estate, he shall be entitled to
recover of the judgment-plaintifff thefull value of the estate with
interest, when the judgment-plaintifff has purchased the estate, or
"had the same confirmed or transferred to him; and when the land
has been sold by the sheriff to any other person, he may recover
the proceeds of the sale, with interest, deducting the amount applied to the costs of thejudgment-defendant.

(4694) § 46. In every other case of the reversal of any judgment, by virtue of which any real estate has been sold or transferred, or the title confirmed, the judgment-defendant shall have
restitution thereof as follows:

(4695) § 47. He may notify the purchaser or his tenant, or
other person in possession, that at the next term he will move the
court which rendered the judgment to restore to him the possession of the premises.

(4696) § 48. Upon proof that the notice has been served
ten days, the court may proceed to hear and determine the issues
made by the parties, and render judgment accordingly, ,0!‘ the

judgment-defendant may recover his real estate by the ordinary
action.

ARTICLE 2 5.——ExEcUT1oNs.

SECTION.
1. Writs of. ‘
2. After five years, upon leave.
3. Three kinds of.
4. Execution-docket, contents.
5. Precipe for execution and fee bill.
6. Judgments, how enforced.
7. No execution against body or property, when.
8. To whom issued.
9. Requisites.
10. Time of return.
it. When may issue on Sunday.
l2- Indorsement of clerk on such writ.
I3. Lien on property, when first levy
preferred.
I4. Sheriff’s successor to execute writ,
when.
15. Alias execution.
16- 1:0 another county, lien from levy.
17- Stay of, time.
18. Lilli how taken, its effect.
19. (ilerk to.no_tify sheriff, return.
20. Llerk’s indorsement on replevinable
judgment.
2!. Stay for residue.
22. Recognizance, when copied.
23' P"°P‘_3fty levied on to be relin24- B53“. effect of judgment confessed25- Joint execution.

26- When stay not allowed, return limited.
27- Smeties may prevent stay, exceptions.

23- When bail may have execution.
29- Entry ofother bail, its effect.

3°- Eztemption. six hundred dollars.

31- Kind of property exempt.

32. Selection of appraisers.

33. Schedule and appraisement.

34- Return of officer, re-appraisement,

D costs.
35- ebt t ’ v '
35- D1"-Ymf-If 0oIf)iil<):'ei~lr?pi‘i:1lliseeri‘s if)-(cifgonalty
. only is claimed.
37- Duty when claim includes person~ alty and realty.

38- Duty when claim is for realty only.
39- R°31PI‘0PeI'ty. how divided.

40. Debtor must ’make and deliver

V scfliiedule.

41- e_I'i ed schedule required.

42' Wm’ ma)’ act in husband’s absence.
43. When husband's mortgage of realty

invalid.
44- N0_ exemption against mechanic’s
lien, etc,

4g- Levy and offer to sell.

4 - M,°ney may be levied on.

47- Bills, notes, etc.

48' glimds P16-dged. etc., subject to lien.
49- arcs of stock, sheriffs duties and

powers.
50- D83; or thing in action, when given
5;. Assignment thereof by sheriff, effect.
5 . Plegiding and proof in action thereii.
53. First levy on property selected by
debtor,_ proviso.

SECTION.

54. When none designated, levy general.

55. When insufficient, levy general.

56. Personalty first sold, exception,
debtor’s residence.

57. Further levies and sales.

58. Sale for two-thirds appraised value,
exception.

59. Sheriff to ascertain cash value.

60. Appraisers, selection, duties.

6!. Vacancy.

62. Liens and incumbraiices, list of.

63. Schedule and valuation.

64. Oath of appraisers.

65. Purchasers privileges as to liens, proviso.

66. Duty of sheriff as to unsold property.

67. Lien of levy to continue, limit, new
writ.

68. Re-oEer, costs, re-valuation.

69. Fraud, sale without appraisement.

70. Delivery bond.

7! . Appraisement when prerequisite.

72. Non delivery, duty of sheriff.

73. Return of forfeiture.

74. Action on bond, damages.

75. Execution without stay, return when.

76. Notice of sale of personalty.

77. Personalty how sold.

78. Real estate liable to judgment, exception.

79. Rents and profits first offered.

80. How valued.

81. Manner of sale, lease by sheriff.

82. Notice ofsale of realty.

83. Damages against sheriff for breach
of dut .

84. Purchaseys by sheriff void.

85. Bidder not paying, liability.

86. Re-sale, liability of first bidder.

87. Excess to debtor.

88. Deed of sheriff.

89. Deed to heirs or devisees.

90. Purchaser subrogated, when.

91. Certificate of purchaser, contents,
du licate, etc.

92. Owneii entitled to possession for one

ear.

93. Mayiiner of redemption by owner,
12': penden: entry.

94. Undivided interest, how redeemed,
lien.

95. ‘Redemption by owner vacates sale,
re—sale when not allowed.

96. Owner failing, judgment creditor
may redeem. _ .

97. Manner of redemption by judgment
creditor.

98, Venditiani expand: by last redempi n.

99. Matncfier of redemption by lien-holder
when lien is recorded.

100. All redemption entries to be indexed by clerk.

10!. Pay of sheriff and other officers.
[O2 Purchaser may recover for waste and

injury.

io3. Act not applicable to former sales.

104. Receipt of sheriff'1o5_ Property of principal to be first exhausted.

ARTICLE 25.——continued.

iEc'r{oN. _ SECTION.

06. Return by mail, money excepted. I27, Affidavit for arrest pending proo7. Sheriff to pay at once. ceedings.

08. Neglect to levy, liability of sheriff. ‘I28. Rocognizance.

09. Neglect to return, liability ofshe1'ilT._ 129. Its form, effect and return.
10,‘ Neglect to pay over, liability of 130. l)ebtor, how discharged.

sheriff. I31. Oath, how taken.
11. Further liability of sheriff. 132. Time and place of oath. notice to
.12. Proceedings against delinquent creditor.
sheriff. 133. Creditor may examine prisoner.
:13. Return of execution. 134. Discharge.
:14. When plaintifff shall give refunding 135. Disposition of property.
bond. :36. Return of sheriff.
H5. Effect of death of defendant. 137. Effect of death of prisoner.
H6. Against the body. 138. Proceedings upon escape.
H7. Writ served by arrest and commit- 139. ]udgment—debtor, when required to
ment. answer.
H8. Finding must designate the property. 140. Judgment-debtor, when required to
(19. Notice to debtor. apply property.
I20. Hearing when had. 141. Order of arrest and bail, when had.
I2}. Hearing in absence of debtor. 142. Bond, when required.
122. Issue on trial. 143. Other persons required to answer

123. Issue against debtor, execution. after issue and return.
124. ,If property surrendered, no execu‘- I44. Witnesses and examination.

tion. 145. Orders of court as to property.

125. ‘On. failure to surrender, execution I46. Costs, proceedings summary.
issues.

126. Writ seryed by arrest and commit- ‘
ment. '

(4697) § 1. Writs of execution, as now used for the enforcement of judgments, are modified in conformity to this act, and
any party in whose favor judgment has been heretofore or shall
hereafter be rendered may, at any time within five years after the
entry of judgment, proceed to enforce the same as provided in
this act.

(4698) § 2. After the lapse of fiveyears from the entry of judgment or issuing of an execution, an execution can be issued only
on leave of the court upon motion after ten days personal notice
to the adverse party, unless he be absent or non-resident or cannot be found when service of notice may be made by publication,
as in an original action or in such manner as the court shall direct.
Such‘leave shall not be given unless it be established by the oath
of the party, or other satisfactory proof, that the judgment or
some part thereof remains unsatisfied and due.

(4699) § 3. There shall be three kinds of executions-one

against the property of the judgment debtor, one against his

person, and one for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, or such delivery with damages for withholding the
same; and executions may be issued to the sheriffs of different
counties at the same time; but the plaintifff shall pay the costs
upon all executions not. necessary to the collection of his judgment.

(4700) § 4. The clerk of every court of record shall keep an

" execution docket, in which he shall enter all executions as they

are issued by him, specifying, in proper columns, the names of
the parties, the amount of the judgment, and interest due at the
issuing of the execution and costs, and prepare an additional column, in which he shall enter at length the return of the sheriff;

and such docket entries shall be taken and deemed to be a record. ' '

(4701) § 5. No execution shall, in any case, be issued on any
cause, except on the written order of a party to such suit, his rep-5
resentatives or assigns, or of his attorney of record; and no feebill shall be issued, unless the same shall be ordered by the person to whom such fees, or a part thereof, are clue, but the clerk
shall receive nothing for any fee-bill issued for his own fees.

(4702) § 6. When a judgment requires the payment of money
or delivery of real or personal property, the same shall be enforced3
in those respects by execution, as provided in this act. Where
it requires the performance of any other act, a certified copy of
the judgment may be served upon the party against whom it is
given, or upon the person or officer who is required thereby, or by
law, to obey the same, and his obedience thereto enforced; if he
refuse, he may be punished by the court as for contempt.

(4703) § 7. No execution against the body shall be issued,
while an execution against the property -remains unreturned, nor}
shall an execution against the property be issued while there is an
execution against the body unreturned.

(4704) § 8. VVhen the execution is against the property or,
body of the judgment-debtor, it may issue to the sheriff of any‘
county in the Territory. \Vhere it requires the delivery of real or
personal property, it must be issued to the sheriff of the county
where the property, or some part thereof, is situated.

(4705) § 9. The execution must issue in the name of the Territory, and be directed to the sheriff ‘of the county, sealed with
the seal, and attested by the clerk of the court. It must intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the court where and the time
when rendered, the names of the parties, the amount, if it be for
money, and the amount actually due thereon, and shall require the
sheriff substantially as follows: '

First. If it be against the property of the judgment-debtor, it
shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of the property
of the debtor subject to execution.

Second. If it be against the real or personal property in the

"hands of personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property, or -trustees, it shall require the sheriff to
satisfy the judgment out of such property. _
Third. If it be against the body of the judgment-debtor, it
shall require the sheriff to arrest such debtor and commit him to
the jail of such county, until he shall pay the judgment, or be discharged according to law. _ '
Fourth. If it be for the delivery of the possession of the real
Or personal property, it shall require the sheriff to deliver the ‘possession of the same particularly describing it to the party entitledthereto; and may at the same time require the sheriff to satisfy
any costs, damages, or rents and profits recovered by the.same
judgment out of the property of the party against whom it was
rendered subject to execution, and the value of the pr.0p€_=FtY f0!‘
which the judgment was recovered to be specified therein, if a delivery thereof cannot be had; and shall in that respect be deemed

an execution against the property.
(4706) § 10. The execution shall be returnable within one

hundred and eighty days from its date.

(4707) §.ll. An execution may be issued and executed on
Sunday, whenever an affidavit shall be filed by the plaintifff, or
some person in his behalf, stating that he will lose his judgment,
as he has reason to fear and believe unless process issue on that
day. l
(4708) § 12. The clerk shall indorse on such execution that
the defendants are not privileged from serving on Sunday.

(4709) § 13. VVhen an execution against the property of any
person is delivered to an officer to be executed, the goods and
chattels of such person within the jurisdiction of the officer shall
be bound from the time of delivery; but if there be several executions whether issued out of a court of record or by ajustice.of the
peace, against the same defendant in the hands of different officers,

that executioin, without regard to the time of its delivery, under
which the first levy is made shall have the preference, and all
liens created by the prior delivery of any other execution shall ‘be

divested in favor of the execution first levied.
(4710) § 14. If the sheriff die or go out of office before the

,return of any execution, his successor, or other officer authorized to discharge the duties of the office in such case, shall
proceed thereon in the same manner that the sheriff should have
done.

(4711) § 15. The clerk, upon the return of an execution unsatisned, shall issue another execution upon the judgment, and
indorse thereon the amount of money levied by the former, if
any.

(4712) § 16. An execution against property issued to another

county shall bind the real estate of the defendant frpm the time

of the levy.
(4713) § 17. When judgment has been rendered against any
persons for the recovery of money or sale of property, he may, by

procuring one or more freehold sureties to enter into recognizance, acknowledging themselves bail for the defendant for the payment
of the judgment, together with the interest and cost accrued and
to accrue, have a stay of execution from the time of signing the
judgment as follows:

First. If the sum for which the judgment was rendered, inclusive of costs, does not exceed six dollars for thirty days.

Second. If such sum and costs exceed six and do not exceed
twelve dollars, sixty days.

Third. If such sum and costs exceed twelve and do not exceed
twenty dollars, ninety days.

Fourth. If such sum and costs exceed twenty and do not exceed forty dollars, one hundred and twenty days.

Fifth. If such sum and costs exceed forty and do not exceed
one hundred dollars, one hundred and fifty days.

Sixth. If such sum and costs exceed one hundred dollars, one
hundred and eighty days. i

(4714) § 18. The bail for stay of execution may be taken and
approved by the clerk, and the recognizance entered of record at
any time before the term of the stay of execution expires. The
undertaking in the recognizance shall be for the payment of the
judgment, interest-, and costs that may accrue at or before the
expiration of the term of the stay of execution. The recognizance shall be written immediately following the entry of the judgment, and signed by the bail. '

(4715) § 19. When the bail is entered after execution is issued, the clerk shall immediately notify the sheriff of the stay,
and he shall forthwith return the execution, noting his doings
thereon.

(4716) § 20. When execution issues for want of bail before
the term for stay expires, the clerk shall indorse thereon the date
of the judgment, and that the same is repleviable.

(4717) § 21. In such cases the defendant may have a stay of

execution for the residue of such term, by putting in bail, to be
approved by the sheriff, and indorsed thereon, and signed by the
bail. (4718) § 22. The sheriff having taken the bail, shall immediately return the execution, with his doings thereon, to the clerk's
office and the recognizance shall be copied by the clerk in the execution docket, and shall have the same force as if taken by the
clerk.

(4719) § 23. All property levied on before stay of execution,
and all written undertakings for the delivery of personal property
to the sheriff, shall be relinquished by the officer upon bail for the
stay of execution being entered.

(4720) § 24. Every recognizance or bail, taken as above provided, shall have the effect of a judgment confessed, from the date
thereof, against the person and property of‘ the bail.

(4721) § 25. At the expiration of the stay it shall be the duty
of the clerk to issue a joint execution against the property of all
the judgment debtors and replevin ball; but the sheriff shall first
levy upon the property of the judgment defendants, if sufficient
can be found, if not he shall then without delay levy the execution
upon the property of the bail. But no property of the bail shall
be sold while property of the original judgment debtor, subject to
the execution can be found in the county.

(4722) § 26. No stay of execution shall be allowed upon any
judgments recovered against any officer, person or corporation,
or the sureties of any of them, for money received in a fiduciary
Capacity or for a breach of any official duty. The clerk shall issue executions upen such judgments forthwith, returnable in
ninety days, and indorsed “not repleviable,” and it shall be so ordered in the judgment. . _ ,
(4723) § 27. When any court shall render judgment against‘

two or more persons any of whom are sureties for any other or
others in the contract on which the judgment is founded there
shall be no stay of execution of the judgment if the sureties object
at the time of rendering the judgment; and it shall be so ordered

by the court, unless the bail for the stay of execution will undertake specially to pay the judgment in case the amount thereof
'cannot be levied of the principal defendant.

(4724) § 28. Any bail for the stay of execution may file with
the clerk an affidavit, stating that he verily believes he will be
liable for the judgment, interest and costs thereon unless execution issue immediately, and the clerk shall thereupon issue execution forthwith, unless other sufiicient bail be entered before the
clerk or sheriff, as in other cases.

. (4725) § 29. If other sufiicient bail be entered, it shall have
the force of the original bail entered before the filing of the affidavit, and shall discharge the original bill.

(4726) § 30. An amount of property not exceeding in value
six hundred dollars, owned by any resident house holder, shall
not be liable to sale on execution or on any other final process
from a court, for any debt growing out of, or founded upon a
contract, express or implied, after the taking effect of this act.

(4727) § 31. The property may be real or personal, or both,
as the debtor may elect and designate at the time he claims the exemption. ’ ' ° I

(4728) § 32. For the appraisement of any property to be exempted under the provisions of this act, two disinterested house
holders of the neighborhood shall be chosen, one by the plaintifff,
his agent or attorney, and one by the execution debtor; and these
two, in case of disagreement, shall select the_ third; and in case
either party fails to select an appraiser the same shall be selected
by the officer holding the execution.

(4729) § 33. Such appraisers shall proceed forthwith to
make a schedule of the real and personal property selected by the
debtor describing the real estate by metes and bounds. and the
personal property by separate items, afiixing to each the value
they may agree upon‘ and they. or a majority, shall affix to the
schedule so made an affidavit in substance as follows: “VVC. the
undersigned, swear that, in our opinion, the above is a just valuation of the property herein described." ‘

(4730) § 34. Such schedule shall be delivered to the officer
holding the execution or other process, and shall be by him returned with such execution or other process, and made a part of
such return: Prozridcd, That all second or subsequent appraisments, under this act, shall be at the cost of the party or parties
asking the re-appraisment, unless the property of the debtor, at
the time of the re-appraisment, is appraised at enough over and
above the legal exemption to meet said costs.

(4731) § 35. Each appraiser, for his services, shall be allowed

the sum of fifty cents. to be paid by the execution debtor.
3 (4732) § 36. If the debtor claim as exempt from execution
personal property only, the officer holding the execution shall
cause the same to be appraised and set apart to the debtor, and
shall proceed to sell such other property, if any, as may be liable
to the execution, according to law.

(4733) § 37. If the claim of the debtor, as exempt from execution, include both real and personal property the officer holding the
execution shall proceed to have the personal property appraistid

six hundred dollars, the debtor may, within sixty days thereafter,
pay the excess or an amount sufficient to satisfy the execution;
but if he fail to do so, the officer shall proceed to sell the real
property as other real property is sold on execution, if the execution authorize the sale of such property. In making the sale
he shall receive no bid unless it exceed the difference between six
hundred dollars and the appraisement of the personal property so
set apart to the debtor. If the officer sell the real property, he
shall pay over to the debtor the amount of said difference, and of
the remainder apply upon the execution enough to satisfy it, and
pay the balance, if any, to the debtor, or to such other party as
may be entitled to it. ,
(4734) § 38. If the debtor claim as exempt from the execution real property only, it shall be appraised; and if its appraisedicg
value exceed six hundred dollars, it shall be sold, if there is a bid
for more than six hundred dollars. If sold, the officer shall pay to
the debtor six hundred dollars and the remainder of the purchase
money shall be disposed of as provided in the last preceding
section. .
(4735) § 39. In all cases in which real property is claimed as
exempt from sale on execution,and said real property is susceptible h"
of division by metes and bounds without material injury thereto, it
shall be so divided as to exempt the principal dwelling house

or homestead of the debtor.
(4736) § 40. Before a debtor shall receive the benefitof the ex- 1

emption provided by law, he shall on demand make out and deliveriiii-l
to the officer holding the execution a schedule of all of his property
as now required by law, in case an exemption from sale on execution is claimed. _
(4737) § 41. Before any person shall be entitled to the‘ benefit I;

of the provisions of the exemption law he shall make out on de-"
mand and deliver to the sheriff or other officer having. the writ,
an inventory of all his or her real estate, within or without this
Territory, money on hand or on deposit within or without this
Territory, rights, credits and chooses in action, and all personal
property of every description whatever belonging to him or ‘in
which he had any interest at the date of the issuing of the writ,
and make and subscribe an affidavit to the same that such inventory contains a full and true account of all such property as required in this act to be set out in the said inventory, had or
held by him at the time such writ was issued; and if any such
property has been disposed of by him since the issuing ot the writ
such aB‘idavit shall allow that fact, and how the same has been
disposed of, and what disposition he has made with the proceeds;
and until such inventory and affidavit shall be furnished to such
officer, he shall not set apart any property to the execution-defendant as exempt from execution. _ _ W.
(4738) § 42. In any case when the execution-defendant is ab-. bl:

Sent from this Territory, or shall absent himself from his. home, Qbser
and an attachment or execution shall be directed against his property, his wife may make out and verify the schedule of his property,
and claim and receive for him the exemption provided in this act,
and claim and exercise all rights. which would belong to her husband were he present.

(4739) § 43. No mortgage or sale of any real estate exempted

=under the provisions of this act shall be valid if executed by a
'married man, unless the mortgage or deed be signed and acknowledged by the wife in due form of law.
(4740) § 44. The exemption under this act shall not effect any

-laborer’s or mechanic's lien, nor lien for the purchase money of

the real property exempted; _nor exempt any property from taxation or from sale for taxes.
(4741) § 45. When an execution against the property of

any person is issued to the sheriff, he shall serve said execution

upon the defendant or defendants in said county, and levy the
same, if not paid, upon property and make at least one offer to
sell property levied upon within sixty days after such execution
comes to his hands, if property can be found, unless otherwise
directed by the plaintifff or plaintifffs, or his or their ‘agents.
(4742) § 46. Current coin and lawful money, and such bank

inotes as the plaintifff is willing to receive as money, may be levied

upon and returned on execution, without sale as so much money
collected. ’ .

(4743) § 4'7. Bills, notes, drafts and checks, or other evidences
of debt, issued by any moneyed corporation or bank, or by this
Territory or the United States and circulating as money, may
be levied upon as personal property and sold on execution.

(4744) § 48. Goods and chattels liable to exemption, pledged.
assigned, or mortgaged as security for any debt or contract, may
be levied upon and sold on execution against the person making
the pledge, assignment, or mortgage, subject thereto, and the
purchaser shall be entitled to the,possession, upon complying with
the conditions of the pledge, assignment, or mortgage.

(4745) § 49.4 Shares of stock in any corporation or company
may be levied upon and sold in the county where the office and
books showing the shares of stock and stockholders of the corporation or company are kept; and the sheriff shall transfer the
stock subject to the rights of the corporation or company. The
sheriff shall have access to the books of any corporation or company in his county, for the purpose of making the levy; and if refused access, the court shall enforce the right. The shares of
stock subject to be levied upon shall be bound by the execution
from the time of the levy; and when such levy is made, the
sheriff shall leave the notice thereof with the officers of the company, and such levy shall constitute a lien upon the stock from the
time of such levy.

(4746) § 50. Any debt or thing in action, legally or equitably
assignable, may be levied upon, when given up by the defendant,
and sold on execution, in the same manner as other personal
property.

(4747)  51. The sheriff making the sale of any such debt or
thing in action shall assign and deliver the same to the purchaser,

execution-defendant at the time of making the levy thereon, and
shall be treated as so made.

(4748) § 52. In any action in which such assignment‘ is declared upon or stated, it shall not be necessary to plead or prove
any judgment or execution by virtue of which the assignment was

made, nor to prove the execution of the assignment, unless the
, same be denied under oath.

(4749) § 53. When any execution shall issue against the real‘
or personal property of any person. it shall be the duty of the‘
sheriff’ to levy the same, first upon that part of the property designated by such person, if there be no reasonable doubt that he is
the owner thereof, and if designated in time to enable the sheriff
to levy and sell without unnecessary delay. a

(4750) § 54:. If no property be thus designated, it shall be the
duty.of the sheriff to levy the execution upon any property of theé
debtor which can be found subject tothe execution.

(4751) § 55. If the property thus designated be insufficient
to satisfy the execution, the sheriff shall levy the same upon such:
other property subject to execution as can be most readily found

sufficient in addition to the property designated, to satisfy the
execution.

(4752) § 56. In all cases where the personal estate of the debt-5
or subject to execution is insufficient to satisfy the execution,‘ the 5;
real estate shall be exempt from levy and sale until the personal
estate is levied upon and sold, unless the debtor shall direct otherwise; and the principal messuage, lands, or tenements of the debtor, or upon which he may reside, shall not be levied upon, unless
other property cannot be found sufficient to satisfy the execution
in the hands of the sheriff.

(4753) § 5'7. If the property levied on shall not sell for a sum an
sufficient to satisfy the execution, the sheriff shall make a further
and sumcient levy, if sufficient property can be found, and proceed
as upon the first levy, and return his doings thereon. ' ’ . (

(4754) § 58. No property shall be sold on any execution or,,,‘
order of sale issued out of any court for less than two-thirds. of "3
the appraised cash value thereof, exclusive of the liens and incuinbrances, except where otherwise provided by law.

1
I

(4755) § 59. The sheriff, immediately upon levying an execu- Ce,
tion, shall proceed to ascertain the cash value of the property ‘*3

levied upon,

I (4756) § 60. For that purpose two disinterested householders leg

of the neighborhood where the levy is made shall.be selectedas
appraisers, o‘ne of whom shall be selected by each ofthe parties
Or their agent; or, in the absence of either party 0!‘ his 3g€"t»_01‘
Upon the failure or refusal of either party, after three days 1101'.-ICC
by the sheriff, to make the selection, the sheriff shall proceed ‘to
select the appraisers. They shall forthwith proceed to appraise
the property according to its cash value at the time, deducting
liens and incurnbrances; and in case of their disagreement as to
the value, the sheriff shall select a like disinterested appraiser. and

with his assistance, shall complete the valuation; and the apprisement of any two of them shall be deemed the cash value.

(4757) § 61. In case any appraiser shall fail to act or to complete such valuation, another shall be chosen in his stead, as above
provided.

(4758) § 62. It shall not be the duty of the sheriff or appraisers to ascertain the amount of liens and encumbrances; but either
party may furnish the sheriff with a list thereof, with the amount
and nature of each.

(4759) § 63. The sheriff shall furnish the appraisers a schedule of the property levied upon, with the encumbrances-made
known to him, and they shall proceed to fix and set down opposite to each tract, lot, or parcel of real estate, and of the several
articles of personal property, the cash value, deducting liens and
encumbrances; which schedule they shall return to the sheriff.

(4760) § 64:. The appraiser shall take and subscribe an oath
annexed to such appraisement, to the effect that the property mentioned in the schedule is, to the best of their judgment, worth the
sums specified therein; that the same is a fair cash value thereof
at the time, exclusive of liens and encumbrances; which oath the
sheriff is authorized to administer and attest, when taken and subscribed by the appraisers.

(4761) § 65. Where any property shall be sold subject to
liens and encumbrances, the purchaser may pay the liens and
encumbrances, and hold the property discharged from all claims
of the execution-defendant; or, he may hold the property subject to beredeemed by the execution-defendant, his heirs or
assigns, by paying to the purchaser, his heirs or assigns, the
purchase money, with interest. When redeemed, the purchaser
shall have the growing crops and shall not be accountable for
rents and profits, but he shall account for waste: Pi'o2'z'dea'.
That nothing contained in this section shall deprive a party
from the right to redeem when authorized by statute.

(4762) § 66. When any property levied on remains unsold, it
shall be the duty of the sheriff, when he returns the execution, to
return the appraisement therewith. stating in his return the failure
to sell and the cause of the failure.

(4763) § 6'7. The lien of the levy upon the property shall

continue; and the clerk, when directed by the plaintifff, shallforthwith issue another execution reciting the return of the former execution, the levy and failure to sell and directing the sheriff to
satisfy the judgment out of the property unsold, if the same be
sufficient; if not, then out of any other property of the debtor subject to execution; but such lien as to personal property shall continue only for thirty days (unless a second execution be issued
thereon) from the time of said return, at which time it shall be
released as to [Iona _/‘ia'c purchasers for value and as to levies of
writs on other judgments, and the levy shall, as between the
parties, be deemed vacated; and as to real property, after six
month, the levy of such writ shall be discharged.

(4764) § 68. Whenever any property levied upon remains
unsold for want of buyers, the plaintifff may cause the same to be

re-offeged at any time before_the return-day of the execution, at
his costs, as often as he may direct; but in case of the sale of the
property, the costs of such offer and sale shall be taxed against
the defendant. Either party may have a re-valuation of the
property, at his costs, after any offer to sell.

(4765) § 69. The property conveyed to a debtor, with intent

to hinder, delay, or defraud creditors, shall be sold without appraisement.

(4766) § '70. Any personal property taken in execution may
be returned to the execution-defendant by the sheriff, upon delivery by the defendant, to him of a written undertaking, payable to the execution-plaintifff, with sufficient surety, to be .approved by the sheriff, to the effect that the property shall be
delivered to the sheriff at a time and place named in the undertaking, to be sold according to law, or for the payment to the
sheriff of the appraised value thereof, or when the s_ame has not
been appraised, then of the value of the same.

(4767) § '71. Before the sheriff shall deliver any part of the
property to the defendant, he shall cause it to be appraised in the
manner prescribed by law, when an appraisement thereof is required;'and the defendant may sell or dispose’of the property,
paying the officer the full appraised value thereof.

(4768) § '72. In case of the non-delivery of the property according t_o the undertaking, it shall be the duty of the sheriff to
levy upon and sell the same or any other property of the defendant as soon as practicable, at any time before the return-day of
the execution,

(4769) § '73. Upon the forfeiture of the written undertaking,
the officer shall forthwith return it, endorsed “forfeited,” to the
clerk's office for the use of the plaintifff.

(4770) § '74. Such undertaking shall be valid in'law and an action had thereon whenever the condition thereof is broken; and on'

recovery, the value of the property, so taken with damages not
exceeding ten per cent on the value, shall be assessed in favor of
the plaintifff. But the recovery shall not exceed the amount due
on the execution, and ten per cent on the principal.

(4771) § '75. On judgment obtained on such written undertaking, execution will issue forthwith, without stay, returnable in:

thirty days; and the sheriff shall not return any property to the
execution defendant levied on thereby except upon payment of
judgment.

(4772) § '76. Previous notice of the time and place of the sale

of any personal property, on execution, shall be given for ten‘

days successively, by posting up written notices thereof in at
least three of the most public places in the township where the
sale is to be made.

(4773) § 77. Personal property shall not be sold unless the

_ . i
same ‘shall be present and subject to the view of those attending

the sale; and it shall be sold at public auction. iI1_SUCh l0tS and
parcels as shall be calculated to bring the highest price.

(4774) § '78. Real estate other than the homestead shall be ,,
liable to all judgments and attachments, and to be sold on execu- H

tion against the debtor owning the _ same or for whose use the
same is holden, viz.

First. All lands of the judgment debtor whether in possession
remainder, or reversion.

Second. Land fraudulently conveyed with the intent to delay or defraud creditors.

Third. All rights of redeeming mortgaged‘ lands; also all
lands held by virtue of any land office certificate.

Fourth. ‘ Lands, or any state or interest therein, holden by any
one in trust for or to the use of another.
' Fifth. All chattels real of the judgment debtor. _

(4775) § '79. The estate or interest of the judgment-debtor
in any real estate shall not be sold on execution until the rents
and profits thereof, for a term not exceeding seven years, shall
have been first offered for sale at public auction; but if the same
shall not sell for a sum sufficient to satisfy the execution, then the
estate or interest of the judgment-debtor shall be sold by virtue of
the execution.

(4776) § 80. Rents and profits may be sold as other property,
the appraisers setting down the value of each year separately.

(4777) § 81. So many years, not exceeding such term of
seven, shall be sole as will satisfy the execution. and no more;

and the sheriff shall execute a lease to the purchaser for the term
sold. ‘

(4778) § 82, The time and place of makinga sale of real
estate on execution shall be advertised by the sheriff for at least
twenty days successively next before the day of sale, by posting
up written or printed notices thereof in three public places in the
township in which the real estate is situated, and a like advertisement at the door of the court house of the county and also by
advertising the same for three weeks successively in a newspaper
of general circulation, printed in the English language, and
published in the county where the real estate is situate: Provided, That if the sheriff shall not be able to procure the publication of the notice in a newspaper of general circulation published within his county, it shall be lawful for him to dispense
with the publication of the notice, and the land may be sold without such publication, and the sheriff shall in his return of the writ,
state his inability to procure the publication and such return shall
have the same effect in evidence as the official returns of sheriffs
in other cases. ' ' ~

(4779) § 83. A sheriff who shall sell any real estate without
giving the previous notice herein directed, or shall sell the same
otherwise than in the manner herein prescribed, shall forfeit and
pay to the party injured not less than ten nor more than two hundred dollars, in addition to such other damages as the party may '

have sustained, to be recovered from the sheriff, or from him and
his sureties, in an action on his ofiicial bond.
(4780) § 84. If any sheriff or his deputy making sale of property on execution shall, directly or indirectly, purchase the same,
the sale shall be void. ‘

(4780 § 85- Whenever the purchaser of any property sold on

execution shall fail or refuse to pay the purchase money», he shall
be liable, on motion to be made by the sheriff or the execution plaintifff or defendant, in the proper court, five days notice
-being given, to a judgment for the amount of the purchase
money, and damages not exceeding ten per cent and interest,
with costs; and no stay of execution shall be allowed upon the
judgment. . ‘

(4782) § 86. The sheriff may re-expose‘ and sell the property on the same or any subsequent day, ac_cor'ding to law, and if
the amount bid at the second sale shall not equal the amount bid
at the first sale and the costs of the second sale, the first purchaser shall be liable for the deficiency, and damages thereon not
exceeding ten per cent and interest and costs, to be recovered by
a like notice and motion as provided in the last section. In case
he sells on a subsequent day, he shall re-advertise as in other
cases. t

(4'78 3) § 8'7. When property shall be sold on execution for,
more than will satisfy the execution, including interest and costs,
the sheriff shall pay the over-plus to the execution debtor of whom
it was levied, or to his assigns, unless he be notified of the existence of liens to the payment of which it ought to be applied, and
in that event he shall return the money, to be disposed of as the
court shall direct.

(4784) § 88. Upon the sale of real estate by virtue of an ex- i
ecution, and the payment of the purchase money, the sheriff making the sale, or in case of his death or going out of office, his successor or any officer authorized to dischargethe duties of the office, shall execute and deliver to the purchaser a deed of conveyance for the premises, which shall be valid and effectual to convey
all the right, title and interest of the execution debtontherein
to the purchaser, except any right of redemption as provided by
law.

(4785) § 89. In case the purchaser of any real estate. upon an
execution having paid the purchase money therefore shall die before a deed of conveyance shall have been executed to him, the
sheriff shall convey such real estate to the heirs or devisees of the
deceased person.

(4736) § 90. .1f upon the sale of property, real or personal,mJ
the title of the purchaser is invalid as to all or any part of Such
property, by reason of any defect in the proceedings or want of
title, the purchaser may be subrogated to the rights of. the creditor against the debtor, to the extent of the money paid and applied to the debtors benefit; and where the judgment is entered
satisfied in whole or in part by reason of such sale, such purchaser
Upon notice to the parties to the proceedings, and upon motion.
may have such satisfaction of the judgment vacated in whole or
in part. Such purchaser. when the proceedings are defective, Of
the description of the property sold is imperfect, shall also have 3
lien to the same extent on the property sold as against all. persons
except bomz jide purchasers without notice; but this SCCUOU Shall
not be construed to require the creditor to refund the purchasemoney by reason of the invalidity of any such 5316(4787) § 91. Whenever any real estate or interest therein
'shall, be sold by ‘the sheriff on execution or decretal order, he shall
issue to the purchaser (or if the real estate be sold in parcels,

‘to different purchasers, to each purchaser) a certificate of pur-.

chase. Such purchase shall show the court in which the judgment or decree was rendered, the parties thereto and date thereof
the dates of the execution and sale, the name of the owner and
purchaser, and price paid; and shall contain a’ particular description of the premises‘ and the estate therein sold whether in fee, for
life or for years; and shall state the time when the purchaser
will be entitled to a conveyance of the property. The sheriff
making such sale shall prepare and sign a duplicate of such
certificate of purchase, and forthwith deliver it to the clerk of the
district court of the county in which such real estate is situated.
Such clerk shall immediately record the certificate in the “Lis
Pendens Record" kept in his office. The certificate shall be assignable by the indorsement, and shall entitle the purchaser, his
heirs, devisees, or assigns; to a conveyance of the estate in said
real property bought by such purchaser, at the expiration of one
year from the,date of his purchase, unless the the same shall have
been previously redeemed as hereinafter provided. Any assignment
of such certificate duly acknowledged as in case of deeds, shall,
together with the acknowledgment, be recorded by the clerk in
the “Lis Pendens Record" at the request of the assignee, and on
the payment or tender of the fees allowed therefore.

(4788) § 92. The owner of the real estate or interest therein,
sold as aforesaid, shall be entitled to the possession of the same
for one year from the date of such sale.

(4789) § 93. The real estate or interest therein sold as afore-said, or any part thereof separately sold, may be redeemed at any
time within one year from the date of such sale by the owner
thereof, or by his executor or administrator under the direction
of the court appointing him, or the judge thereof in vacation,
or by his heirs or devisees, or by any one holding either the legal
or equitable title,‘ by paying to 'the clerk of the court in whose
office ‘such certificate of purchase is required to be recorded, for
the use of the purchasers, his executors, administrators, or assigns, the amount of his purchase money, and interest at the
rate of eight per cent per annum thereon from the date of his purchase; or if the premises shall have be_en previously redeemed by
any person having a lien thereon, as hereinafter provided, then
by paying to such clerk, for the use of the last redemptioner, the
amount paid by him for the redemption, with interest at the rate
of eight per cent per annum thereon and his costs of redemption.
If the real estate has been sold in separate parcels by the sheriff,
such owner or other person may redeem any separate parcel or
parcels sold in one body, by paying to such clerk, for the use of
such purchaser, the amount paid by him for such parcel or parcels.
"ltefe-9t. and costs thereon as aforesaid; or if the real estate has
been redeemed, in whole or in part, by a liener as aforesaid; then
b)’ Paying to the clerk, for the use of the last redemptioner his
redemption money, with interest and costs as aforesaid. Immake an entry in the “Lis Pendens Record,” showing the date
and amount of the redemption, by whom redeemed, the character

money is paid shall make out, and deliver to the person redeeming,
a certified copy of the entry aforesaid, who shall cause the same to
be recorded by the clerk of the court from which such execution
issued, who shall record the same in the “Lis Pendens Record"
kept in his office, If any person other than the party owning the
real estate at the time of the sale apply to the clerk to redeem, he
shall file with the clerk an affidavit, showing the facts entitling
him to ‘redeem. If this right _to redeem is based upon any record
in the office of the clerk of any court in the county or of the
recorder of the county in which the real estate is situate, it shall
be sufficient to state in such aihdavit the particular record, volume,
and page where such record may be found. If such right is based
upon some record kept in an office without such county, he shall
file, with his affidavit, a duly certified copy of such record. The
clerk shall note the date of filing such affidavit and copy, properly
endorsed thereon, and preserve the same as part of the record of
his office. , '

(4790) § 94:. Any person having an undivided interest in the
property sold may redeem such property, or any parcel or parcels;
thereof sold in one body, as provided in the foregoing section.
And if he so redeem, he shall have a lien on the several shares
of the other owners for their respective shares of redemption
money, with interest at the rate‘of ten per cent per annum thereon. and his costs of redemption;_ which lien shall be superior to
all liens on the real estate so redeemed, junior to the lien of the
judgment under which the sale was made, and may be enforced
against the other part owners and junior encumbrances by appropriate legal proceedings. . _ _

(4791) § 95. -Whenever any real estate, interest therein, or
parcel thereof, sold as aforesaid, shall be redeemed by the owner:
or any part owner or persons claiming under them as above pro-1»:
vided, the sale thereof by the sh'eriff shall be wholly vacated as to
the real estate, interest therein or part thereof redeemed, and
the real estate, subject to sale on execution, as if such sale had not
been made, saving to a part owner redeeming his lien as aforesaid.
But whenever real estate or an interest therein has been sold by
the sheriff as aforesaid, no re-sale thereofshall be had upon execution or decretal order issued upon any judgment or flefiree. JUNO!’
in lien to that upon which the sale was made, within one year
from the date of such sale, unless the same shall have been previously redeemed by the owner or part owner, or some one claiming under either, as above provided. _ ' .

(4792) § 96. In the absence of a redemption as above provi-_

. , . Ill
ded, by. any owner, part owner, or person claiming under either, m

the real estate sold, or any parcel or parcels thereof sold in one

'-body, may be redeemed at any time within one year from the date
of sale, by any judgment-creditor, his executors, administrators,
or assigns holding a judgment or decree against the defendant
whose title or interest shall have been sold, which, at the time he
or they offer to redeem, shall be a lien upon such title or interest,
and which shall be junior to the judgment under which the property was sold. Such redemption made by any person entitled
thereto, without regard to the order of priorities of liens, and successive redemptions may be made by the several persons entitled
to redeem, in the manner hereinafter provided.

._ (4793) § 9'7. Any judgment-creditor authorized by the preceding section to redeem, who shall desire to redeem from the purchaser at such sale, shall‘ first file with the clerk of the court in
whose office the certificate of purchase is required to be recorded
a statement, duly verified by his affidavit, or the affidavit of his
agent or attorney, showing the court in which his judgment was
rendered, the parties thereto, amount and date thereof, and amount
due and unpaid thereon, and, if less than the whole, the parcel or
parcels thereof which he desires to redeem and the sale from which
he desires to redeem. He shall thereupon pay to ‘such clerk,
for the use of the purchaser, his executor, administrator, or assigns, the amount paid by such purchaser for the real estate or
portion thereof sought to be redeemed, as shown by the record of
the certificate of purchase in the “Lis Pendens Record" in the
office of said clerk, and interest at the rate of eight per cent
per annum thereon from the date of his purchase. Upon the receipt of the redemption money and interest. the clerk shall make
out and sign a certificate showing the date and amount of the redemption, the land or part thereof redeemed, the judgment in right
of which the redemption was made, and the execution under
which the sale was made; and, after recording such statement, affidavit, and certificate “Lis Pendens Record" shall deliver such certificate to the redemptioner. When such redemption has been made,
any other judgment-creditor, entitled and wishing to redeem, may
do so by filing with said clerk a statement and affidavit similar to
those above provided for and containing, in addition. the name of
the preceding redemptioner from whom he wishes to redeem, and
the particular parcels he wishes to redeem. He shall thereupon
pay to such clerk, for the use of the last preceding redemptioner.
if the lien of the latter be junior to that of the party now redeeming, his redemption money and interest at the rate of eight per
cent per annum thereon and costs of redemption; anclif his lien be
senior to that of the party seeking to redeem, he shall pay to the
clerk, for the use of the aforesaid, the judgment of the last redemptioner on account of which his redemption was made and interest thereon and his costs of suit in addition to the amounts aforesaid; and thereupon such clerk shall issue to him a certificate similar to the one above provided for, and record the statement, affidavit, and certificate in the “Lis Pendens Record" aforesaid.

Supsequent redemptions may be made by other judgment-creditors
entitled to redeem, substantially in the manner and upon the

" terms above provided; and when the redemption of any parcel is

made from a prior redemption, the amount to be paid by the redemptioner shall be in the same proportion as provided in section 4790. When any person claims the right as the executor,
administrator, or assignee of a judgment-plaintifff, to redeem, he
shall file a verified statement of the facts, showing his right to redeem; and if his right to redeem is based upon records other than
those in the office of the clerk where such redemption is made, he
shall file certified copies of such records with his statement; all of
which shall be properly endorsed and filed by the clerk.

(4794) § 98. If, during the year hereinbefore allowed for redemption, the real estate, or interest therein, sold by the sheriff,
or any parcel or parcels thereof sold separately, shall be redeemed
by any owner or part owner or by any person claiming under
them, at the expiration of such year, the last redemptioner shall
be immediately thereafter entitled to sue out an execution in the
nature of a vena’z'tz'om' exporzas upon his judgment, by virtue of which
he made his redemption. Such execution shall recite the judgment upon which the original sale was made, naming the court,
wherein rendered, the parties thereto, the date and amount thereof
the dates of the execution and sale, and name of the owner, the
price paid by the purchaser or purchasers for the real estate, if
sold in one body, or for each parcel thereof, if sold in parcels, or
interest therein redeemed by said redemptioner, the amount paid
by such redemptioner in redemption thereof, date of payment, and
costs of redemption, and the judgment of said redemptioner,
under which his redemption was made and amount due threon;
which execution shall issue to the sheriff of the county in which
such real estate is situate, commanding him to sell the real estate,
interest therein, or parcels thereof, redeemed by said redemptioner, to the highest bidder; and after paying the costs of such
sale, and paying to such redemptioner his redemption money and
interest thereon at the rate of eight per cent per annum, and his
cost of redemption, and the amount of principal, interest and costs
due on his judgment, pay the residue into the olhce of the clerk
issuing such execution. Such real estate shall be sold upon like

‘notice as in other cases, but without offering the rents and profits,
and without regard to appraisement laws, and if redeemed. in
parcels shall be offered in like parcels, and the redemptioner suing
out such execution shall be deemed the bidder for the amount
paid by him in redemption thereof, and interest thereon at the
rate of eight per cent per annum, his costs of redemption and the
costs of sale, and if no one bid more, he shall be deemed the purchaser for that amount, and the sheriff shall immediately upon the
perfecting of such sale, execute to the purchaser a conveyance of
the premises, which shall convey to the purchaser all.the title and
interest of the owner sold under the original execution. If such
sale should fail to satisfy the execution in full, the residue may be
levied and collected of any other property of the defendant theret0. as in other cases. If the execution upon the Judgmellt Of
the last redemptioner be stayed at the expiration of the year
aforesaid, or there be installments on his judgment or decree, not

then due, he shall, nevectheless, be entitled to execution as aforesaid, for the amount due him on account of his redemption, which
shall be without prejudice to his right to sue out further Final process on his judgment or decree, and any surplus remaining, after
satisfying the costs of sale and amount due him on account of re_demption, shall be paid to the ‘clerk for distribution, as hereinafter
provided. Such sale shall discharge the lien of the judgment on
which the original sale was made, and the .liens of all intervening
judgments and decrees; and if any surplus remain after satisfying
the execution upon the last sale, it shall be distributed by the
court from whence said execution issued, among the judgment
creditors whose liens are junior to that under which the original sale
was made, according to their original priorities and equities. If
the judgment on which such execution issues shall have been rendered in a court other than that in the clerk’s office of which the
statement, affidavitfand certificate of such last redemptioner are
required to be filed, he shall before the issuing of such execution,
procure duly certified copies of such statement, affidavit and certificate, and cause them to be Filed and recorded in the “Lis Pendens
Record,” kept in the 'ofT1ce of the clerk issuing the execution and
said writ shall contain the recitals and mandate hereinbefore
required.

(4795) § 99. [Any person having a lien, otherwise than by
judgment upon the real estate, or any parcel or parcels thereof

sold in one body, may, at any time within one year from said sale,
and after he shall have had his lien duly recorded where, by law,
the recording thereof is provided for, redeem the same from the
purchaser at said sale, or from any prior redemptioner, and redemption thereof may be made from him upon the same terms and
conditions as hereinbefore required in cases of redemption by judgment—creditors, and if, at the expiration of one year from the sale
on execution, no one shall have redeemed from him, and -his lien
remains unforeclosed, he shall retain a lien on the real estate so
redeemed by him, as of the date of the judgment on which said
sale was made, and may enforce the same in the suit to foreclose
or enforce his lien, or by an independent action; and any sale of
said real estate, in pursuance thereof, shall be absolute, and the
purchaser immediately entitled to a conveyance, having the same
effect as if in his lien, at the time he redeemed, had been in judgmnet. .
1 (4796) § 100. All entries in relation to the sale and redemp.tion of real estate, as provided in this act, in the “ Lis Pendens
_Record,” shall be indexed therein by the clerk in the. names of the
judgment plaintifffs upon whose execution the real estate was sold
against the defendant owing the same‘ and also in the name of said
defendant at the suit of said plaintifffs.

(4797) § 101. The officers performing the services herein required shall charge and receive the like compensation as for similar services in other cases; but the sheriff, or other officer making the
second or subsequent sale shall be entitled to a commission, only

ion the excess of the redemption money.

(4798) § 102. The person receiving a conveyance from the

sheriff pursuant to the provisions of this act shall be entitled to
recover for any waste or injury to the premises conveyed, committed after the original sale on execution.

(4799) § 103. The provisions of this act shall not apply to
any sale or execution or decretal order made before the taking
effect of this act; but all liens and rights of redemption and resale, existing at the passage of this act and growing out of any
such sale, may be enforced in like manner as if this act had not
been passed, and in accordance with the statute in force when
such sale was made. But all sales made after the passage of this
act, and all redemptions therefrom, shall be governed by the provisions of this act.

(4800) § 104. The sheriff receiving an execution shall en-8‘
dorse fhere-on the year, month, day and hour when he received it. V
(4801) § 105. If it appear from the face of the execution, or
by the indorsement of the clerk, that of those against whom it]
issued any one is surety for another, the property of the prin-‘

cipal shall be first sold, unless the surety shall direct otherwise.

(4802) § 106. When any execution shall be issued to any
county other than the one in which the judgment is rendered:
return may be made by mail, but money cannot be thus sent,
except by the direction of the party entitled thereto or his attorney. . _ ‘ '

(4803) § 107. When the sheriff has collected any money on
execution, he shall pay over the same at the earliest opportunity, ‘
unless enjoined.

(4804) § 108. If any sheriff shall neglect or‘ refuse to levy‘
upon or’ sell any property justly liable to execution when the s?
same might have been done, he shall be amerced to the value
of such property, not to exceed the amount necessary to satisfy
the execution. .

(4805) § 109. If any sheriff shall neglect or refuse to return
an execution as required by law, or shall make a false return 3
thereon, he shall be amerced in such amount as he might and
should have levied by virtue of the execution. ‘

(4806) § 110. If any sheriff shall neglect or refuse, on demand. to pay over any money collected on execution to the exe- 3,1
cution-creditor, his agent or attorney, or-to the execution-debtor,
when he is entitled thereto. he shall be amerced to the amount
thus‘ withheld. _

(4807) § 111. In all cases specified in the last three sections, .
the plaintifff shall, in adc3'ti0ii to the amercement, recover of the "1
officer legal interest and damages, not exceeding ten per cent on

the. principal sum recovered.

(4808) § 112. Such recovery may be had by motion against
the officer, in the proper court, ten days notice thereof beingag

given, or by action on the bond of the sheriff. The proceedings 9"
in this section contemplated may be commenced immediately upon the default of the sheriff, either before or after the return day
of the execution. _
(4809) § 113. Every execution shall be returned forthwith, em
upon being satisfied by the collection of the money; also, upon

order of the.plaintifff or his agent indorsed thereon. When the
return day of an execution falls on Sunday, it shall be returned on
the following Monday. ' .

(4810) § 114. When the sheriff has sold the property of a
non-resident or other person upon an execution issued on a judgment recovered against him in a case where publication is provided for, and no personal notice of the pendency of the action
was given to such defendant, the plaintifff shall not be entitled to
receive any of the proceeds of such sale until he has filed in the
clerks office a written undertaking, with surety to be approved by
the clerk, to the effect that he will refund the money about to be
received by him, or so much» - thereof as shall be necessary, if the
judgment shall afterward be annulled or set aside, and the defend;
ant shall show that the plaintifff’s claim is unfounded in whole or in
part. But surety to refund shall not be required in cases of attachment.

(4811) § 115. The death of a defendant, after the execution is
placed in the hands of the sheriff to be executed, shall not effect
his proceedings thereon, except that the amount of property allowed absolutely to the widow of the decedent shall be exempt
from levy and sale under such execution.

(4812) § 116. No execution shall be issued upon any judgment against the body of any execution-debtor, except as hereinafter provided.

(4813) ‘§ 117. Before any such execution shall issue, the
plaintifff shall file with theclerk an affidavit, charging the debtor
with fraudulently concealing, removing, conveying, or transferring
his property subject to execution, with intent to defraud and
delay the plaintifff, or charging that the debtor has money, rights,
credits, or effects, with which the judgment, or some part thereof, might be paid, and which he fraudulently withholds or conceals with a view to delay or defraud the creditor.

(4814) § 118. The affidavit need not designate specifically any
property, monies, or effects, fraudulently removed, transferred,
concealed, conveyed, or withheld, by the debtor; but the jury or
court, in determining the matters in issue between the parties, if
the finding be for the creditor, shall designate, in the finding, the
monies, effects, property, debts, or things in action, subject to
execution, which have been removed, concealed, transferred, conveyed, or withheld, and the value thereof.

(4815) § 119. Upon the filing of the ahidavit, the clerk shall
issue a notice, requiring the debtor to appear at the next term of
the court, and show cause why such execution should not appear
against him.

(4816) § 120. After ten days notice, ‘or after the return of
two notices of “not found,’_’ the court shall hear and determine the
matters and things contained in the affidavit.

(4817) § 121. If the,debtor shall fail to appear and show_

cause, the court may hear and determine the same in the absence

of the debtor; or a jury for that purpose may be empaneled, if desired by the creditor.

(4313) § 122. If the debtor appear and plead to the affidavit

and sulT1cient matter to bar the issuing of the execution, and issue
be taken thereon, the same may be tried‘by the court or a jury,

.as in other cases.

(4819) § 123. If the issue be determined against the debtor,
the court, unless good cause be shown, shall forthwith order an‘
execution against his body, subject to the rules and restrictions of
the next two sections.

(4820) § 124. If the debtor shall surrender such monies,
effects, property, debts, or things in action, to the use and for the}
benefit of the creditor, or pay the value thereof, as found by the
court, or jury no execution shall for that cause be issued against
his body. ' ‘

(4821) § 125. If the debtor fail to surrender or pay as provided
in the preceding section upon the return of such finding an execu-i
tlon shall forthwith issue against his body upon the judgment.

(4822) § 126. The execution against the body shall be,
served by arresting the defedant, and unless discharged by due‘
course of law committing him to the common jail of the county.

(4823) § 127. If the creditor show in his alT1davit that the
debtor has not been held to special bail in the original action, or,;
having thus been held, has been surrendered by the bail, and
that he has reason to fear, and does fear, that such debtor will
leave the Territory, before the trial and determination of the
matters alleged in the ahidavit, an order of arrest and bail shall
issue against the debtor, and be served in return, as in other
cases.

(4824) § 128. The debtor, when arrested on an order of arrest, may enter into recognizance, with suhicient surety, for his
appearance at the trial of such proceedings, and for the surrender
of his body if an execution be awarded.

(4825) § 129. The sheriff may take the recognizance in the
form and by the rules provided in other cases for order of . arrest
and bail, either before or after the debtor is committed to prison,
and shall return the same to the proper court. The recognizance
shall have the same force as in other cases, and all subsequent
proceedings may be had thereon by the parties and persons intetested, as are provided in cases of arrest and bail.

(4826) § 130. Any person arrested or imprison_ed_'on execution may discharge himself from custody by C1€l1V€1'1ng to the
sheriff a sulhciency of property, either real or personal, to discharge the debt or damages due on the execution, together. with
the interest and costs thereon, or by delivering to the sheriff ‘all
the property both real and personal, which he may have. T1_0t Inf
cluded in the finding of the court or jury, subject to execution, .if
any, together with the property, credits, and effectsincluded in
the finding of the court or jury, and all choses in action, if any,
exceeding, with other property retained, the amount exempt by
law from execution. He shall also make oath that he has no more
or other property either real or personal, subject to. execution,
and that he has no monies, rights, Credits» 01' effects 1“ h15 P05‘
session, or under his control, or in the possession, or under the
Control of any other person for his use, exceeding,.with other

property retained, the amount exempt from execution, and that
he has neither directly nor indirectly, disposed of, transferred, or
concealed any of his property, rights, credits,‘ monies, or effects
nor confessed or suffered any judgment with intent to delay or defraud any of his creditors.

(4827) § 131. For the purpose of enabling the defendant to
take the oath, it shall be the‘ duty of the sheriff, upon the prisoner's
request, to take him before some person authorized to administer
an oath, who shall reduce the oath to writing, explain it to the
prisoner, and cause him to be sworn to and subscribe it, and, having certified the oath, deliver to the sheriff, who shall make it a
part of his return, by appending it to the execution.

(4828) § 132. The execution-creditor shall be notified of the
time and place at which the oath will be taken. The notice shall
be served upon the creditor, or his agent or attorney, by the
sheriff. if the creditor, his agent or attorney reside in the county,
and if neither party reside in the county, the sheriff snall post up
the notice in the clerk’s office five days.

(4829) § 133. When the oath is administered, the executioncreditor, his agent or attorney, may propound to the prisoner
any relevant questions tourching his property, monies, rights,
credits and effects, and the person administering the oath shall reduce the questions and answers to writing, and forthwith file the
same with the clerk.

(4830) 9' 134. When the prisoner has strictly complied with
the foregoing provisions he shall be discharged.

(4831) § 135. Any property given up by the person under
arrest shall be disposed of by the sheriff in the same manner 85
property taken on execution against property.

(4832) § 136. The sheriff shall make return of all his doings
therein, the discharge of the debtor, and the sale of the property‘.
according to the facts to the court.

(4833)  137. The arrest of any person who may die while in
‘custody shall not discharge the judgment of any lien upon the
property, but the same may be enforced by any legal proceedmgs.

(4334) § 138- Any person escaping from custody may be re’turned by the same or a new execution against his body, or his
property may be proceeded against in the same manner as if his
body had never been taken in execution.

(4835) § 139. W’ hen an execution against the property of the
judgment-debtor or any of the several debtors in the same judg‘- ment, issued to the sheriff of the county where he resides (or if he
does not reside in the Territory, to the sheriff of the county where
the judgment is rendered,) is returned unsatisfied, in whole or in
part, the judgment-creditor, after such return is made, shall be entitled to an order, to be issued by any court of record in the county
to which such execution issued, or by the clerk thereof in vacati0n. requiring the judgment-debtor to appear forthwith before the
court if in session (if the court is not in session, then before the
judge thereof, at a time and place to be spcihed therein, or on the
first day of the next term of the court,) to answer concerning his

property within the county to which the execution was issued, and
a transcript of a judgment from a justice of the peace filed and
'docketed in the district court shall, for the purposes of this act,
have all the effects of a judgment rendered originally in said
court.

(4836) § 140. If, after the issue of an execution against property, the execution-plaintifff, or any other person in his behalf, shall
make and file an affidavit with the clerk of any court of record of
any county, to the effect that any judgment-debtor, residing in
such county, has property (describing it) which he unjustly refuses to apply toward the satisfaction of the judgment, the court,
if in session, or the judge or clerk thereof in vacation, shall issue
an order requiring the judgment-debtor to appear forthwith before
the court, if in session, (if not, at the next term of the court, or
before the judge thereof, at a time and place to be specified therein), to answer concerning the same, and such proceedings may
thereafter be had for the application of the property of the judgment-debtor toward the satisfaction of the judgment, as provided
upon the return of an execution. .

(4837) § 141. When the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, shall,
at the time of applying for the order, or at any time afterward,
make and file his affidavit with the court, or the clerk thereof
in vacation, that there is danger of a. debtor leaving,the Territory or concealing himself, and that there is reason to believe
he has property, rights, credits, monies, or effects which he unjustly refuses to apply to the judgment, with intent to defraud
the creditor, the court shall issue to the sheriff of the county
an order of arrest and bail. ’ .

(4838) § 142. The sheriff, having taken the execution-debtor
into custody upon the order of arrest, shall require him to enter
into a written undertaking to ‘the plaintifff, with surety to be approved by the officer, that he will attend before the court, or judge
thereof, as required, and abide such order as shall be made, and
that he will not, in the meantime, dispose of any part of his property not exempt from execution. In default thereof, he shall be
committed to prison, and, upon breach of such undertaking, the
plaintifff shall have his remedy thereon to the amount of the value
of the property unlawfully withheld or disposed of. _ _

(4839) § 143. After issuing or return of execution against
the property of the judgment-debtor or any one of several debtors
in the same judgment, and upon allidavit, that any person or corporation has property of such judgment-debtor, or IS indebted to
him in any amount, which, together with other property claimed
by him as exempt from execution, shall exceed the. amount of
property so exempted by law, such person, corporation, or any
member thereof, may be required to appear and answer concerning the same, as above provided,

(4840) § 144. Witnesses may be required to appear and ‘£65tify in the proceeding provided for in this act; and either party
may examine the other as a witness in the same manner as upon
the trial of an issue, or the plaintifff may waive the answer. of ‘the
debtor, and rely upon other testimony. All such Cxamlnatlons

and answers shall be on the oath of the party, except that when
‘a corporation answers, the answer shall be on the oath of an officer
thereof.

(4841) § 145. Upon the hearing, thejudge of the court may
‘order any property of the judgment-debtor, not exempt from exemption, in the hands of himself or any other person, or any debt
due to the judgment-debtor, to be applied to the satisfaction of
the judgment, and forbid transfers in choses in action, and such
judge or court shall have full power to enforce all orders and decrees in the premises, by attachment or otherwise.

(4842) § 146. Costs shall be awarded and taxed in this pro,'ceeding as in other cases; and all proceedings under this act, after
the order has been made requiring parties to appear and answer,
shall be summary, without further pleadings, upon the oral examination and testimony of parties and witnesses. But the sufficiency, of the order and of the affidavit first filed by the plaintifff may
be tested by demurrer or motion to dismiss or strike out the
same.

ARTICLE 26.——ARBITRATION.

SECTION. Sgcnou,

I. Who may arbitrate, agreement. 14. Judgment on award.
2. What may not be arbitrated, excep- I5. Hearing when had on rule to show
tion. cause.

3 Bond agreement to make rule of court. 16. What cause may be shown.

4 Time and place of meeting, notice. 17. When party may move to correct
5. Oath of arbitrators. award,

6. Who to administer oath. 18. Proceedings on motion.

7 \Vltl1€SSCS. _ I9. Kinds of Judgment,

8. Hearing, award of nlajority valid. 20. Costs, how taxed.

9. Award must be in writing, signed and 2!. Judgment to do an act, how enforced.

attested. 22. Reference of suit in open court.

to. Rees to be returned with award. 23. Referees, where sworn re ort.
II. L__opies_ to be given to parties. 24. Report and effect thereolf).
I2. hiring in court. 25. Judgment on report.
13. Lntry of award, rule to show cause. 26 Pay of arbitrators and referees.

(4843)  1. All persons, except infants and insane persons,
may by an instrument in writing submit to the arbitration or
umpirage of any person or persons to be by them mutually
chosen, any controversy existing between them which may be
the subject of a suit at law, except as otherwise provided in
the next section, and may agree that such submission may be
made a rule of any court of record designated in such instrument. a

(4844) § 2. No such submission shall be made respecting the
claim of any person to an estate in fee or for life to any real
estate, but any claim to an interest in a term for years, or for
one year or less in real estate and controversy respecting the partition of lands between joint tenants or tenants in common, or
concerning the boundaries of lands, or concerning the assignment
of dower, may be submitted to arbitration.

(4845) § 3. \Vhen an agreement is made according to the
preceding sections, the party shall execute bonds, with conditions to abide and faithfully perform the award of umpirage.

party may appoint a time and place for the arbitrator or arbitrators to meet by giving to the opposite party and to such arbitrator or arbitrators at least ten days written notice.

(4847) § 5. Before proceeding to hear any testimony such arbitrator or arbitrators shall be sworn faithfully and fairly to hear
and examine the matters in controversy,_and to make ajust reward according to the best of his or their understanding.

(4848) § 6. Such oaths, and oaths to witnesses, may be administered by any person authorized to administer oaths. ‘

(4849) § '7. Witnesses may be required to attend before arbitrators on behalf of either party, by subpoenas issued by any justice -of the peace, in the same manner and subject to the same
process and penalties for disobedience, to be enforced by such
parties as in trials before justices of_the peace. (4850)  8. As soon as the arbitrator or arbitrators are ready
to proceed to business the parties may exhibit their proofs. All;
the arbitrators must meet together and hear the allegations of the "
parties, but the award of a majority is valid unless otherwise required by the submission. 5

(4851) § 9. The award shall be in writing, and signed by the“
arbitrator or arbitrators who agree thereto, and shall be attested a
by a subscribing witness.

(4852) § 10. The fees of the justice issuing process and of
the witness in such case shall be the same as allowed before jus- :5
tices of the peace and shall be ascertained and estimated by the
arbitrators, and returned with the award, including therein their own
fees as allowed by law. '

(4853) § 11. A true copy of the award, and of the costs afore- .
said shall be delivered to each of the parties, or left at his last 3"
usual place of residence, by any one of the arbitrators within Efteen days after the signing of such award.

(4854) § 12. If either of the parties shall fail or refuse to
comply with such award the other party may file the same, together with the agreement ofsubmission in the court named in such
submission.

(4855) § 13. Upon such submission being proved by a sub- E
scribing witness thereto, or in case of his death, insanity or ab- 3:;
sence out of the Territory, then by proof thereof, as in other cases
of a written instrument, and upon the award also being proved in
like manner, or by the arbitrators of any of them, and upon proof
that a copy of the award has been duly served on the party
against whom the rule is asked, the court shall cause such submission and award to be entered of record, and shall grant a rule
thereon against the adverse party, to show cause at that or the
succeeding term of the court why judgment Shall n0t be entered
by such court upon the said award.

(4856) § 14. Upon the return of the rule, the court shall con- J“
firm the award and render judgment thereon, unless the award ‘be awai
vacated or modified, or postponed, as herein provided, which

llldgment shall have the same force and effect as judgments in
other causes.

(4857) § 15. If the rule h_as been served ten days or more on

‘the adverse party before the time set for showing cause against

the award, the court may proceed to examine and determine the
same in his absence, or, if he appear, they shall proceed to hear
and determine the grounds alleged against such award, if there be
an .

(}:;858) § 16. In all cases where an award or umpirage shall
be presented to any court of record for a judgment to be entered
thereon, whether the reference shall have been made by submission of parties aforesaid-or by rule of court, the adverse party may

show, for cause against the rendition of such judgment, any of the
following gronnds:

First. Such award or umpirage was obtained by fraud, corruption, partiality or other undue means, or that there was evident
partiality or corruption in the. arbitrators or any of them.

Second. That the arbitrator or arbitrators was or were guilty
of misconduct in refusing to postpone a hearing upon sufiicient
cause shown, or in refusing to hear evidence material and pertinent
to the controversy, or any other misbehavior by which the rights
of any party shall have been predjudiced.

Third. That the arbitrator or arbitrators exceeded his or their

powers, or that he or they so imperfectly executed them that a

mutual, final, and definite award on the subject matter submitted was not made.

(4859)  17. Any party to such submission may move the
court to modify or correct such award or umpirage, in the following cases:

First. When there is an evident miscalculation of Figures, or
an evident mistake in the description of any person, thing, or
property referred to or mentioned in such award or umpirage.

Second. When the arbitrator or arbitrators shall have awarded
upon some matter not submitted and not affecting the merits of
the decision upon the matters which were submitted.

Third. \I\/hen the award or umpirage shall be imperfect in
some matter or form not affecting the controversy. and while, if it
had been a verdict, such defect could have been properly amended
or disregarded by the court.

(4860) § 18. The court shall hear the proofs and allegation of
of the parties, to invalidate and sustain such award and umpirage,
and shall decide thereon, either confirming such award or umpirage.
or may modify and correct the same in the cases prescribed in the
last preceding section so as to effect the intent thereof and to pro‘mote justice between the parties, and shall render judgment upon

such original or corrected award or umpirage; or the court may

' vacate such award or umpirage for any of the causes hereinafter

specified, at the cost of the parties seeking to enforce such award
or umpirage.

(4861) § 19. If such award or umpirage be confirmed, judgment may be given in favor of any party to whom any sum of
money or damages shall have been awarded that he may recover
the same, and if the award or umpirage shall have ordered any act

to be done by either party, judgment may be entered that such
act be done according to such award or umpirage.

(4862)‘§ 20. The costs of the proceedings in court shall be
taxed as costs in suits, and if no provision for the fees and expenses of the arbitration shall have been made in the award or
umpirage the court shall make the allowance therefore. But if
there was a suit pending previous to such admission, the costs of
which were not noticed by the arbitrators or umpire the court
shall not allow or tax any of the costs thereof prior to such submission. ~ _

(4863) § 21. When by any judgment of the court on award
or umpirage, any party shall be required to perform an act other

than the payment of money, the court shall have power to enforce

the same by attachment, -until the term of such judgment shall be
complied with. _

(4864) § 22. If the subject matter of any suit pending in
any court might originally have been submitted to arbitration, the
parties to such suit, their agent or attorney-at-law may consent,
by rule of the court, to refer the matter in controversy to certain
persons mutually chosen by them in open court.

(4865) § 23. Such referees, if required by the parties, shall be
sworn in open court, or before any officer authorized to adminster
oaths, faithfully and impartially to investigate, adjust and report
the matters thus submitted, and shall proceed to the investigation
of such matters according to the submission of the parties, and
report to the court at such'time as shall be agreed by the parties
in such rule of reference.

(4866) § 24. When such report shall be returned under the
hands of the, referees, or a majority of them, it shall be entered
on the order-book, and shall be of the same effect, and be deemed
and taken to be as available in law as the verdict of a jury.

(4867) § 25. Either party may move the court for judgment
on such report; and if no sufficient cause be shown to the contrary,

- judgment shall be rendered thereon in like manner and with like

force and effect as if rendered upon verdict of a jury. .

(4868) § 26. Such arbitrators and referees shall be allowed
one dollar per day: each for every day they are necessarily employed as such arbitrators.

ARTICLE 27.-—-—ARREST AND BAIL.

S15c'r[oN. SECTION. _
1. Arrest, conditions and manner. 14. Who may make affidavit.
2. Order of arrest, affidavit. I5. Bail, when exonerated.
3. PlaintifT’s undertaking. I6. Arrest of principal by bail.
4. Sheriff to execute order, contents. I7. Surrender in open court.
5. Arrest. 18. Surrender in vacation to sheriff or
6. Recognizance uf special bail. jailer.
7. Return. 19. Copy of order must accompany sur8. Effect of recognizance. render.
9. llabea: rorpus. 20. Indorsement of surrender, efiect.
10. Length of detention. 21. Iliew bail.
11. Plaintiff may object to insufficient 22. Notice of surrender after judgment.
v bail. 23. Disposition of surrendered defendant
12. Hearing proceedings, liability of after judgment.
. sheriff. ’ 24. Failure to notify, liability of bail. \
13. Sheriff, when not liable. 25. Suit on recognizance, limitation.

(4869) § 1. A defendant in a civil action can be arrested and
held to bail only upon the conditions and in the manner prescribed
in this act.

(4870) § 2. An order for the arrest of the_defendant shall be
made by the court, in term time in which the action is brought,
or by the clerk thereof, in vacation, at the commencement of the
action or at any time before judgment when there is filed in the
office of such clerk an affidavit of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, specifying the plaintifff's right to recover an existing debt or
damages from the defendant, and stating that he believes the defendant is about to leave the Territory, taking with him the property subject to exec ution, or money, or effects which should be
applied to the payment of plaintifff's debt or damages with intent
to defraud the plaintifff. .

(4871) § 3. The order of arrest shall not be issued until there

has been executed and filed in the office of the clerk of such court, ,

by one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintifff, to be approved
by the clerk of the court making the order, a written undertaking
to the effect that the plaintifff shall pay to the defendant all damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, if the order is

wrongfully obtained, not exceeding double the amount of the
plaintifff’s claim stated in the affidavit.

(4872) § 4. The order of arrest shall be addressed and delivered to the sheriff. It shall state the names of the parties to
the action, in the court in which the action is brought, and the
amount of the plaintifff's claim specified in the affidavit and shall
require the sheriff to arrest the defendant, and hold him to bail in
the sum of the plaintifff's claim, with the costs of the action, and to
‘make return of the order on a day to be named therein with the
recognizance, if any is taken.

(4873) § 5. The sheriff shall execute the order, ‘by arresting
the defendant, and keeping him in custody until discharged by
law. -.

(4874) § 6. When an order of arrest and bail is executed, the
sheriff shall take rccognizance of special bail of some responsible

person, resident of this Territory, in substance that the surety
acknowledges himself special bail for the defendant in the action;

l

and which shall have the force and effect of recognizance of special
bail, and be obligatory as such.

(4875) § 7. It shall be the duty of the sheriff to return the
order of arrest to the office whence it issued, immediately upon
taking and approving of the recognizance of special bail, when
bail is taken and in all other cases, on the return day, and in all
cases the officer shall indorse his doings thereon.

(4876) § 8. Any such recognizance of special bail shall only
amount to an undertaking that the defendant will surrender his
body, or the money, property, and effects, or the value thereof,
held or owned by him at the time of filing such affidavit, and in
default of such surrender, the surety to such recognizance shall
only be liable for the amount of the property, monies, and effects
which the plaintifff may show the defendant to have held or owned
at the time of the filing such affidavit exceeding the amount
exempt from execution.

(4877) § 9. When any person shall be committed to prison on
‘an order of arrest for want of special bail, he may sue out a writ of
/zabeas corpus in any court, or before any judge of competent
jurisdiction, and on the return thereof the plaintifff shall be compelled to show that the facts alleged in the affidavit, on which the
defendant is held to bail are true, and on failure to do so, the defendant shall be discharged.

(4878) § 10. When any person is committed for want of bail,
he shall be he held in prison (unless he is bailed or otherwise
legally discharged) until final judgment in the action in which he
is arrested, and if the judgment be against him he shall be held
for such time thereafter as the court shall direct, not exceeding
ten days.

(4879) § 11. If the plaintifff deem the bail insufficient, he
may at the term to which the writ was returnable, or at any term
thereafter before final judgment, object to the sufficiency of the
bail by giving three days notice of the objection to the sheriff.

(4880) § 12. At the time specified in such notice, the court
shall proceed to hear and determine as to the sufiiciency of the
bail, if adjudged insufiicient, another bail approved by the court,
is not given, the bail shall not be thereby discharged, but may be
proceeded against by -the plaintifff, and if he cannot recover the
amount for which such bail may have become liable, the sheriff shall
be liable upon his official bond for the same or so much as.may remain unsatisfied, and for the costs of the action against the
bail.

(4881) § 13. The sheriff shall not be liable to the plaintifff on
account of the insufiicieni:y of the bail, if it shall appear that he
acted with due care in accepting the same.

(4882) § 14. Affidavits of the plaintifff's right to the debt or
damages which he claims may be made by any person residing in
this or any other territory, state or country, and additional affidavits may be made by other persons, stating the further grounds
necessary to obtain an‘ order for arrest and bail, and upon filing
such affidavits duly authenticated, an order for the arrest and bail

may be entered as_in other cases.

(4883) § 15. . The bail may be exonerated either by the death

"of the defendant, or his imprisonment in the state prison, or by

his legal discharge from the obligation to render him amendable
to the process, or by his surrender to the sheriff of the county
where he was arrested in execution thereof, at any time before
final adjournment against the bail of his recognizance.

(4884) § 16. The bail may at any time take a certified copy
of the order of arrest and recognizance, by virtue of which he may
take his principal and deliver him into the custody of the proper
officer. Such copy shall be given and certified by.the clerk.

(4885) § 17. If the court to which the order of arrest is returnable be in session at the time of the surrender, the same may
be made in open court, and the court shall cause the discharge of

.the bail from all further liability, to be entered of record.

(4886) § 18. , If the court be not in session, the surrender may

be made to the sheriff or keeper of the jail of the proper county,

who shall receive the prisoner and hold him in custody in like
manner as if he had been committed by virtue of the order of arrest on which he was held to bail.

(4887) § 19. But the sheriff shall not be bound to receive any

person so surrendered unless the bail shall deliver to him a copy

of the order of arrest and recognizance, certified by the officer who
issued the original order of arrest.

(4888) § 20. The sheriff or keeper of the jail shall acknowledge the reception of the principal, by an indorsement on the certified copy of the order of arrest, and, the surrender shall acquit the
bail from all further liability as special bail.

(4889) § 21. Every defendant surrendered by his bail may be
bailed as if arrested by the original order of arrest. _

(4890) § 22. When the surrender of the principal is made
after final judgment against him the bail shall within ten days
after cause notice of the time and place thereof to be given to the
plaintifff or his attorney, if either reside in the Territory, which
notice shall be served by the sheriff, who shall deliver a certified
copy of the notice to the keeper of the jail, on or before the expiration of ten days from the time of the surrender, but if neither
the plaintifff nor his attorney reside in the Territory, the notice
shall be posted up ten days in the clerk’s office of the county, and
a copy of the notice, certified by the clerk, shall be forthwith
thereafter delivered to the keeper of the jail.

(4891) § 23. When the surrender is made after the judgment,
the prisoner shall be detained in custody, but if the plaintifff shall
not proceed to charge him in execution within five days after the
notice, the defendant shall be discharged from custody without
any order for that purpose.

(4892) § 24. If any bail shall fail to give the required notice
to the plaintifff or his attorney, and the principal shall be discharged, no proceedings being commenced to discharge him in execution, the bail shall remain liable on his own recognizance.

(4893) § 25. Whenever the right of action has accrued against
any special bail, the creditor may at any time within two years

after final judgment against the principal and not afterward,maintain an action on the recognizance in his own name.

‘ARTICLE 28.-—ATTACHMEN'I‘.

Sacrrou. SECTION.
1. .Causes. ' 27. Garnishee paying, is discharged.
2. Concealing absence, effect, 28. Examination, order of court.
3. Affidavit. 29. Collecting officer subject to garnish4. Bond. ment.
5. Order. 30. Claims of other creditors, how filed.
6. Order to different counties, judgment 3:. Subsequent creditors not effected by
when had. ' dismissal. .
7 When pray issue on Sunday. 32. Appearance, discharge and restitu8. Inventory and appraisement, return. tion.
9. Lien of. 33. Effect ofjudgment for defendant.
IO. Personalty attached before realty. ' 34. Judgment for plaintifff, enforcement.
11. Delivery bond, 35. Attached property, how sold.
12. Right of property, how tried. 35- M0116)’. h0W distributedI3. Examination on oath, 37. Action on plaintifffs bond, when.
14. Lien of consignee_ 38, Action by Territory, no affidavit or
15. Bond for restitution. bondI6. Sale of perishable goods, notice. 39. Shel’ifi’S returnI7. Expenses for keeping. 40. Proceedings before justices.
I8. Affidavit and summons for garnishee, 4!. Trial, judgment.
return. 42. Garnishees.
I9. Liability of garnishee. 43. Proceedings where claim exceeds
20. Statement of garnishee, examination. jurisdiction ofjustice.
2!. Judgment for failure to answer. 44. When plaintifff to pay costs
22. Arrest of absconding garnishee. 45. Wages, parties non-resident, nu juris3-’3- N0 judgment until main action de- diction.
termined. 46. Wages for six months exempt.
24. Proceedings not effected by return of 47. Garnishee may pay six months’
“no property.” wages25. Costs as to garnishee.

26. Contract 0 garnishee, how performed

(4894) § 1. The plaintifff at the time of filing his complaint, or
at any time afterward, may have an attachment against the property of the defendant in the cases and in the manner hereinafter
stated, where the action is for the recovery of money:

First. Where the defendant, or one of several defendants, is a
foreign corporation or a non-resident of this Territory.

Second. Where the defendant, or one of several defendants. is
secretly leaving or has left the Territory, with intent to defraud
his creditors.

Third. So conceals himself that a summons cannot be served
upon him.

Fourth. Is removing or about to remove his property subject
to execution, or a material part thereof, out of this Territory, not
leaving enough therein to satisfy his creditors or if the debt is due
for property obtained under false pretense or if the indebtedness
was fraudulently incurred. .

Fifth. Has sold, conveyed, or otherwise disposed of l'llS property subject to execution, or suffered or permitted it to be 501d.
with the fraudulent intent to cheat, hinder, or delay his creditors.

Sixth. Is about to sell, convey, or otherwise dispose of his

property subject to execution, with such intent:
Pro2rz'a'm’, That the plaintifff shall be entitled to an attachment

for the causes mentioned in the second, fourth, fifth and sixth,
"specifications of this section, whether his cause of action be due or
not.

(4895) § 2. If the wife or family of the debtor shall refuse or
be unable to give account of his absence, or the place where he
may be found, or shall give a false account of either, such refusal,
inability or false account shall be deefned an attempt to conceal
his absence, within the provisions of this act.

(4896) § 3. The plaintifff, or some person in his behalf, shall
make an affidavit showing:

First. The nature of the plaintifff's claim.

Second. That it is just. ‘

Third. The amount which he believes the plaintifff ought to recover.

Fourth. That there exists in the action some one of the grounds
for an attachment above enumerated.

(4897) § 4. The plaintifff or some one in his behalf shall execute a written undertaking with sufficient su_rety to be approved
by the clerk payable to the defendant, to the effect that the plaintifff will duly prosecute his proceeding in attachment, and will pay
all damages which he may be sustained by the defendant, if the
proceedings of the plaintifff shall be wrongful and oppressive.

(4898) § 5. Upon the filing of such aliidavit and written
undertaking in the oliice of the clerk, he shall issue an order of
attachment, which shall be directed and delivered to the sheriff.
It shall require him to seize and take into his possession the propperty of the defendant in his county not exempt from execution.

(4899) § 6. Orders of attachment may be issued to the sheriff
of any county, and several of them may at the option of the
plaintifff, be issued at the same time or in‘ succession, but the costs
only of such as have been executed in whole or in part shall be
recovered against the defendant, unless otherwise directed by the
court. The plaintifff shall not have judgment in any such action
except in some of the following cases, viz:

First. When the defendant shall have been personally served
with process.

Second. “(hen the property of the defendant shall have been
attached in the county where the action was brought.

Third. \Vhen a garnishee shall have been summoned in the
county where the action.is brought, who shall be found to be indebted to the defendant, or to have property or assets in his hands
subject to an attachment.

(4900) § 7. An order of attachment may be issued on Sunday,
if the plaintifff will show in his affidavit that the defendant is about
to abscond on that day to the injury of the plaintifff.

(4901) § 8. The sheriff shall proceed, with the assistance of a
disinterested and creditable house—l)older of the county, to attach the lands and tenements, goods and chattles of the defendant
subject to execution, and shall, with the assistance of the householder, make an inventory and appraisement thereof, and return
the same with the order.

(4902) § 9. An order of attachment binds the defendant’s

property in the county subject to execution, and becomes a lien
thereon from the time of its delivery to the sheriff in the same
manner as an execution. (4903) § 10. The defendant’s personal property shall be first
taken under aniattachment, if enough thereof is not found to satisfy the plaintifff’s claim and costs of the action, then his real estate.
If, after an order of attachment is placed in the hands of the
sheriff, and property of the defendant is removed from the county,
the sheriff may‘ pursue and attach the same in any county, within
three days after the removal. i -. .

(4904) § 11. The defendant, or other person having possession of property attached, may ‘have the same or any part thereof
delivered to him, by executing and delivering to the sheriff a
written undertaking, with surety to be approved by the sheriff,
payable to the plaintifff, to the effect that such property shall be
properly kept and taken care of, and shall be delivered to the
sheriff on demand, or so much thereof as may be required to be
sold on execution to satisfy any judgment which may be recovered

' against him in the action, or that he will pay the appraised value

of the property, not exceeding the amount of the judgment and
costs.

(4905) § 12. Whenever anyperson other than the defendant,
shall claim any property attached, the right of property may be
tried as in cases of property taken on execution, and the claimant,
having notice of the attachment, shall be bound to prosecute his
claim as in such cases, or be barred of his right.

(4906) § 13. The defendant or claimant of any attached 0
property may be required by the court to attend before it and
give information on oath, respecting the property.

(4907) § 14. Goods attached in the hands of the consignee .
shall be subject to alien for any debt due him from the consignor. “

(4908) § 15. If the defendant, or any person in his behalf, at a
any time before judgment, shall execute a written undertaking to
the plaintifff, with sufficient surety to be approved by the court,
clerk, or sheriff, to the effect that the defendant will appear to the
action, and will perform the judgment of the court, the attachment
shall be discharged and restitution made of any property taken
under it or the proceeds thereof. _

(4909) § 16. VVhen personable property attached is of a per- 3,)
ishable nature or its keeping expensive, the court mayodirect the he
sheriff to sell it at public auction upon reasonable notice if the propperty is liable to immediate damage, the sheriff in vacation may
sell it by giving ten days notice without an order of the court,
and the proceeds of all sales shall be deposited with the clerk. ]

(4910) § 1'7. The sheriff shall be allowed by the court the kei
necessary expenses of keeping the attached property. to be Pald

by the plaintifff and taxed in the costs.

(4911) § 18. If at the time an order of attachment issues, or
at any time before or afterward, the plaintifff, or other person in S“:
his behalf, shall file with the clerk an anidavit that he has good 5:;
reason to believe that any person, naming him. has PTOPCTW of

the defendant of any description in his possession, or under his

control, which the sheriff cannot attach by virtue of such order, or
that such person is indebted to the defendant, or has the control or
agency of any property, monies, credits, or effects, or that the defendant has any sharesor interest in the stock of any association
or corporation, the clerk shall issue a summons notifying such
person, corporation, or association to appear at the ensuing term
of the court, and answer as garnishee in the action. The summons shall be directed to the sheriff, and served and returned by
him in the same manner as a summons is served and returned in
other cases. When the summons issues before an attachment,
the affidavit must show some one of the causes authorizing the attachment. ‘

(4912) § 19. From the day of the service of the summons the
garnishee shall be accountable to the plaintifff in the action for the
amount of money, property, or credits in his hands, or due and
owing from him to the defendant.

(4913) § 20. It shall be the duty of any officer or agent of an

"association or corporation, and of every other person summoned

as a garnishee, when served, or within five days afterward, to furnish the sheriff with a certificate of the number of shares or rights
of the defendant in the stock of such corporation or association, or
a description of the property held by such corporation, association,
or person whether due or not, which certificate shall be returned
by the sheriff with the summons. If such officer, agent or person
refuse to do so, he may be required by the court to attend before
it and be examined on oath, concerning the same, and obedience
to the orders may be enforced by attachment.

(4914) § 21. Whenever any garnishee, being dulyrsummoned,

1 fails to appear and makediscovery as required by law, or fails to answer or demur to the matters set forth against him in the affidavit
or additional complaint or interrogatories, such matters may be
taken as confessed, or judgment entered by default, as the case
may require, or he may be examined under oath touching all the
matter charged in the affidavit or additional complaint, and all
such proceedings, pleadings, and process, shall be had, according
to the practice in other cases, as shall be necessary to determine
the rights of the parties and render a final judgment.

(4915) § 22. If any plaintifff or other person in his behalf
shall file with the clerk an affidavit that he fears that the garnishee
will abscond before judgment can be had, with intent to defraud
the plaintifff, and that he verily believes that the garnishee has
monies, things in action, goods, chattels, or effects of said defendant is in possession, or is indebted to said defendant, the clerk
shall issue an order-of arrest against the garnishee, and hold him
to bail therein as in a civil action.

(4916) § 23. Final judgment shall not be rendered againsta
garnishee until the action against the defendant in attachment is
determined, and if the plaintifff fails to recover judgment either
againt the defendant or the garnishee, the garnishee shall be discharged and recover his costs.

(4917) § 24. The return of no property found upon the order

of attachment shall not effect the proceedings against the garnishee. _

(4918) § 25. If the plaintifff recover judgment against the defendant, and the garnishee deliver up to the sheriff before judgment against him, all the defendant's goods and chattels, or other

goods in his possession subject to execution, or an, inventory

thereof, and pay to the sheriff or into court all monies due from
him or belonging to the defendant the costs in the proceedings
against the garnishee shall be paid by the defendant, but if the
garnishee shall not appear, or if appearing shall refuse truly to
confess the matter alleged, and, on the trial, the plaintifff shall recover judgment against him, or if he admits that he has monies,

‘credits or effects belong to the defendant in his hands and shall

refuse to pay or deliver the same as above provided, he shall pay
costs.

(.4919) § 26. A garnishee in attachment shall not be compelled in any case to pay or perform any contract in any other
manner or at any other time, than he would be bound to do for
the defendant in attachment.

(4920) § 2'7. A garnishee may pay the money owing to the
defendant by him to the sheriff or into court, and shall be discharged from'liability to the defendant for monies so paid, not
exceeding the plaintifff’s claim.

(4921) § 28. A garnishee, or oiT1cer of a corporation, summoned as a garnishee, at any time after being served with the
summons five days, may be examined in open court, on oath; and
if it be discovered on such examination, that at the time or after
the service of the summons upcn him, he or the corporation was
possessed of any property of the defendant, or was indebted to
him, the court may order the delivery of such property and the
payment of such indebtedness into court, or the execution of a
written undertaking by the garnishee, with SUH'lCl6l'li.' sureties to be
approved by the court, payable to the plaintifff, to the, effect that
the indebtedness shall be paid or the property forthcoming, as the
court shall direct.

(4922) § 29. Clerks of the district courts, sheriffs, justices of
the peace, constables, and all other olT1cers who may collect money
by virtue of their office, and all executors, administrators, guardions, and trustees, shall be subject to garnishment at the suit of
any attachment creditor of the person who has money or choses
in action- in the hands of such olT1cer, executor, administrator,
guardian, or trustee at the time of the service of such garnishee
process, in the same manner and to the same extent as other
persons are liable to be garnished in attachment proceedings. _

(4923) § 30. Any creditor of the defendant, upon filing hlS
affidavit and written undertaking, as hereinbefore required of the
attaching creditor, may, at any time before the final judgement of
the suit, make himself a party to the action, file his complaint,
and prove his claim or demand against the defendant, and may
have any person summoned as garnishee, or held to bail, who has
not before been summoned or held to bail, and propound interrogatories to the garnishee, and enforce answers thereto, in like
manner, as the creditor who is plaintifff.

(4924) § 31. Adismissal of his action or proceedings in attachment by the first attaching creditor shall not operate as a dismissal of the action or proceedings of any subsequent attaching
creditor.

(4925) § 32. Any defendant against whom an order of attachment has been issued may, after appearing to the action,
move to have attachment discharged and restitution awarded of
any property taken under it, but an appearance to the action shall
not operate to discharge the attachment, unless a written undertaking be filed as required in section six hundred and twenty. If
the defendant appear, and judgment be rendered in favor of the
plaintifff, and any part thereof remain unsatisfied after exhausting
the property attached, such judgment shall be deemed a judgment against the defendant personally, and shall have the same
force and effect as other judgments, and execution shall 'issue
thereon accordingly for the collection of such residue. If the
plaintifff’s undertaking be insufficient, he shall have a reasonable
time to file an additional one.

- (4926) § 33. If the judgment in the action is ren.dered for the
de

endant, the attachment shall be discharged and .the property
attached, or its proceeds, returned to him.

(4927) § 34. If judgment in the action is rendered for the
plaintifff, or one or more of the several plaintifffs, and sufficient
proof be made of the goods, chattels, rights, credits, monies and
effects in the possession of the garnishee, the court shall also give
judgment in favor of the plaintifff, or creditors against the garnishee or the property of the defendant, or both, as the case may
require, which may be enforced by execution.

(4928) § 35. After judgment for the plaintifff, or one or more of
several plaintifffs, property attached and remaining unsold may be
sold on execution as in other cases.

(4929) § 36. The money realized from the attachment and
the garnishee shall, under the direction of the court, after paying
all costs and expenses, be paid to the several creditors in proportion to the amount of their several claims as adjusted, and the
surplus, if any shall be paid to the defendant.

(4930) § 37. Every defendant shall be entitled to an action
on the written undertaking of the plaintifff or creditor by whose
proceedings in attachment he shall have been aggrieved, if it
shall appear that the proceedings were wrongful and oppressive,
and he shall recover damages at the discretion of the jury.

(4931) § 38. In all actions in the name of the Territory of

L. Oklahoma, or of any person, agent, or officer for the use of the
Territory. if process be returned that any defendant is not found,

an order of attachment may be issued and proceedings had in
like manner, as in other cases, without filing any affidavit or written undertaking.

(4932) § 39. VVhen an order of attachment is fully executed

or discharged, the sheriff shall return the same, with his proceed1ngs thereon, to the court.

(4933) § 40. Attachments against thegoods and chattels,
rights, credits, monies and effects of defendants, may be issued in
cases contemplated in the foregoing provisions, upon any claim
within the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace, upon filing with
the justice an affidavit, as prescribed in this article, and the justice
shall perform the duties required of the court and the clerk thereof, and the constable shall perform the duties required of the
sheriff in the above provisions. The constable shall return the
order of attachment within ten days with his doings thereon, and
in case where a summons has not been served and property has
been attached, the justice shall give three weeks notice of the
attachment in some newspaper published in the county, if any is
published therein, if not, then by posting up written notices
thereof in three of the most public places in the township, and
fix the day of trial at the expiration of such notice.

(4934) § 41. If the defendant do not appear and give bond,
for the release of the property attached, before the day of trial, the
justice shall proceed to hear and determine the cause; and in case
judgment be given against the ‘defendant, he shall order the property to be sold to satisfy the judgment, according to the provisions
of this article.

(4935) § 42. Garnishees may be summoned and the same proceedings had before the justice, as provided in higher courts.

(4936) § 43. VVhen any suit is commenced before a justice of‘
the peace, and an attachment is also issued by said justice in the:
same action against the property of the defendant, any person who
shall have a claim against said defendant of a larger amount than
the jurisdiction given to justices of the peace, may file the same
with the justice of the peace under the attachment; and if any such
claim is filed, the justice of the peace shall immediately certify the
cause, with all the papers belonging to the district court of the
county wherein said suit was commenced; and the clerk of said
court to which the cause is certified, shall docket the same; and
the said court shall proceed with such cause in the same manner
as if it had been commenced in said court.

(4937) § 44. If any person shall file a claim before the‘ justice
of the peace, as stated in the preceding section, and shall, on the ‘°
trial in the district court, fail to establish , his claim to an amount
sufficient to entitle him to recover costs in such court according to
the provisions of law now in force, then, and in that event, he may
recover judgment for his claim, if proved, but.sha'il pay all costs
that accrue in consequence of such transfer but if he shallrecover
judgment to an amount sufficient to entitle him to recover costs,
then, and in that event, the attachment-defendant shall pay all
costs to each attachment-plaintifff that shall recover judgment.

(4938)  45. Hereafter no court in this Territory shall have P0
or entertain jurisdiction in any action of attachment, garnishment.”

or supplementary proceedings, when the plaintifff and principal defendant are both non-residents of this Territory, and the money

sought to be reached by such attachment, garnishment or supplementary proceedings is the personal earnings, or wages due Or

owing to the principal defendant from any person or corporation
doing business in this Territory.

(4939) § 46. The wages of all persons in employ of any person
or corporation shall be exempt from garnishment and proceedings
supplemental to execution in the hands of such person or corporation so long as such employee remains in such employment, not
exceeding six months wages at any one time.

(4940) § 47. Any person or corporation in debt for wages, as
in the preceding section provided, may, at any time after being
served with a garnishee summons, pay to any such employee the
amount of wages exempted by the preceding section; and such
payment shall discharge such garnishee-defendant from liability

for the amount so paid, as effectually as if paid before the issuing
of such summons.

ARTICLE 29.-—CONTEMPTS OF COURT.

Snc'rioN. . _ SECTION.

1. Direct, disturbing business of court. 7. Trial for direct, appeal.

2. Direct, refusing to testify, etc. 8. Indirect, rule to show cause.

3. Indirect, disobeying process. 9. Proceedings. decision and appeal.

4. Indirect, resisting process, etc. 10, To what courts law applicable, proIndirect, false report of trial. viso.

6. Punishment.

. (4941) § 1. Every person who shall, by the commission of any
felony, misdemeanor, or unlawful act; or who by talking, moving

about, or by signs, or gestures, or in any other manner, in any.

court of record, where the same is open for the transaction of
business. and engaged therein, create any noise or confusion
therein, whereby the business and proceedings of said court shall
be disturbed, shall be deemed guilty of a direct contempt of court.

, (4942)  2. Every person who being sworn to testify as a witness in any court of record, in any trial or proceeding therein,
shall refuse to testify touching the same; or who, being required
by any court to be sworn in any such trial or proceeding, shall refuse to take an oath or affirmation therein, or who, while upon the
witness stand, shall purposely so bemean himself, as to retard or
disturb the proceedings thereof, shall be deemed guilty of direct
contempt thereof.

. (4943) § 3. Every person who shall be guilty of any willful disobedience of any process or any order lawfully issued by any
court of record, or by the proper officer thereof under the authority of law or the direction of such court, after the same shall have
been served upon him, shall be guilty of an indirect contempt of
court from which such process or order shall have issued.

(4944) § 4. Every person who shall willfully resist, hinder or
delay the execution of any lawful process or order of any court of
record shall be guilty of an indirect contempt of said court. And
every person who shall offer, give, or promise any reward, or who
shall threaten to assault or injure, or shall assault or beat, or in any
other manner whatever influence or intimidate, or attempt to influence any witness to give or abstain from giving testimony in
any case, or to abstain from attending as such witness in any

case, or who shall do any act to put such witness in fear on account of any testimony, which he or she may have given. or
who, on account of any such testimony shall injure or threaten to
injure such witness, shall be guilty of a direct or indirect contempt of the court in which such witness may be called to testify,
according as the same may be done in the presence of such court
or elsewhere out of the presence thereof.

(4945) § 5. Every person who shall falsely make, utter or
publish any false or grossly inaccurate report of any case, trial or
proceeding thereof shall be deemed guilty of an indirect con" tempt of the court in which such case trial or proceeding may have

been instituted, held or determined, if made at any time after
such proceeding shall have been commenced and at any time
while the same is pending, and while the court shall have jurisdiction thereof, and at any time before it shall be fully determined
or entered, or if such report shall be so made pending such case,
trial or proceeding touching any ruling or order of said court
therein such person shall be deemed guilty of an indirect contempt
of the court making such ruling or order.

(4946) § 6. Punishment for contempt of court under this act
may be by fine or imprisonment or both in the discretion of the
court inflicting the same, but no line shall exceed the sum of five
hundred dollars, nor shall any imprisonment extend beyond the
term of three months.

(4947) § 7. When any person shall be arraigned for a direct
contempt" of any court of record of this Territory, no affidavit, r«
charge in writing, or complaint shall be required to be filed against
him, but the court shall distinctly state the acts, words, signs,
or gestures, or other conduct of the defendant which is alleged
to constitute such contempt; and such statement shall be reduced to writing, either by the judge making it or by some reporter authorized by him to take it down when made; and the
same shall be substantially set forth in the order of the court on
the same, together with any statement made in explanation, extenuation or denial thereof, which the defendant may make in response thereto, and the court shall thefeupon pronounce judgment,
either acquitting and discharging the defendant or inflicting such
punishment upon him as may be consistent with the provisions of
this act; and if found guilty, the defendant shall have the right to
except to the opinion and judgment of the court. And in all
cases where the defendant may be adjudged to pay a fine of fifty
dollars or more, or to be imprisoned for‘ such contempt, he shall
have the right, either before or after the payment of such fine ‘or
undergoing such imprisonment, to move the court to reconsider its
opinion and judgment of the case, upon the facts before it, or upon the affidavits of any or all persons who were actually.present and heard or saw the conduct alleged to have Constltuted
such contempt;.and, if the defendant shall fail. to present the affidavit of every person present, in support of his m0t10n the C011“
may direct the aHidavit of all such persons as were so present
(whose affidavits the defendant may have failed to pI‘0CU1'e). to be

-procured; and upon all such affidavits and original statements of

the court and himself touching such contempt, the defendant mny
lmove the court for a new trial and recision of its judgment
against him; and if the court shall thereupon overrule such motion
the defendant may except and file a bill of exceptions, as in other
criminal actions; and in all cases an appeal shall lie thereupon to
the supreme court; or in case judgments shall have been rendered
in any special term of the district court, an appeal shall lie in the
first instance to the general term thereof, and thence as in other
cases, to the Supreme Court.

v (4948) § 8. In all cases of indirect contempt, the person charged
therewith shall be entitled, before answering thereto or being punished therefore, to have served upon him a rule of the court against
which the alleged contempt may be committed; and which rule
shall clearly and distinctly set forth the facts which are alleged to
constitute such contempt, and shall specify the time and place of
.such facts with reasonable certainty as to inform the defendant of
the nature and circumstances of the charge against him and shall
specify a time and place at which he is required to show cause, in
said court, why he should not be attached and be punished for such
contempt, which time the court shall on proper showing, extend
so as to give the defendant a reasonable and just opportunity to
purge himself of such contempt. No such rule as hereinbefore
provided for, shall ever issue until the facts alleged therein to
constitute such contempt shall have been brought to the knowledge of the court by an information duly verified by the oath of
alhrmation of some officers of the court or other responsible person.

(4949) § 9. If the defendant shall fail to appear in said court
at the time and place specified in the rule provided for in the last
preceding section, to answer the same, or if, after having appeared
thereto, the defendant shall fail or refuse to answer touching such
contempt, the court may proceed at once, and without any further
delay, to attach and punish him or her for such contempt; but if
the defendant shall answer to the facts set forth in such rule, by
showing that, even if the are all true, they do not constitute a
contempt of court, or by dexying or explaining or confessing and
avoiding them, so as to show that no contempt was intended, then
and in every such case, the court shall acquit and discharge the
defendant. But if the defendant shall not in his answer to such
rule, sufficiently deny, explain, or avoid the facts therein set forth,
so as to show that no contempt has been committed, the court
may proceed to attach and punish him for contempt by a fine or
imprisonment, or both as hereinbefore provided; and the defendant, having appeared to such rule, may except, file a bill of exceptions, and appeal to the general term to the Supreme
Court. in the same manner as in cases of direct contempt.

(4950) § 10. The provisions of this act shall apply to all proceedings of contempt in all courts of records in this Territory except the Supreme Court thereof : Provz'a’ca’. /zawervcr, That nothing therein contained shall be construed or held to embrace, limit
or control any proceeding against any officer or party for contempt

for the enforcement of civil rights and remedies : Arm’ Prow'a’ed, fun‘/zer, That the provisions of this act shall not apply to any case
where any person has been personally served with notice to appear

and testify as a witness in any court in thi

witness may be proceeded against as for contempt of court by attachment, as though this act was not in force, but the proceeding
against such absent witness by attachment shall not cause a continuance of the case in which such witness was subpoened to testify.

ARTICLE 30'—CONYEYANCES BY COMMISSIONERS.

SECTION.

SECTION.
1. Real property, how conveyed. 6. Signature, names of parties.
2. Contents of deeds. 7. Recording.

3. Title passed under judgment.
4. Title passed under sale,
5. Approval by court necessary.

8. Conveyance by party, how enforced.
9. Form ofcommissioner’s deed.

(4951) § 1. Real property may be conveyed by a commis- ,“
sioner appointed by the court:

First. Where, by the judgment in an action, a party is ordered
to convey real property to another or any interest therein.

Second. Or where real property, or any interest therein has
been sold, and the purchase money has been paid.

(4952) § 2. The deed of the commissioner shall so refer to the dc‘
judgment authorizing the conveyance, that the same may be readily found, but need not recite the records in the case generally. '

(4953) § 3. A conveyance made in pursuance of a judgment _
shall pass to the grantee the title of the parties ordered to convey “"
theland. ’

(4954) § 4. A conveyance made in pursuance of a sale or- 1
dered by the court shall pass to the grantee the title of all the W
parties to the action or proceeding.

(4955) § 5. A conveyance by a commissioner shall not passcof:
any right, until it has been examined and approved by the court,
which approval shall be indorsed on the conveyance and recorded
with it.

(4956) § 6. It shall be sufhcient for the conveyance to be 5;
signed by the commissloner only without affixing the name of the W“
parties whose title is conveyed; but the names of the parties shall
be recited in the body of the conveyance.

(4957) § 7. The conveyance shall be recorded in the office in R.
which by law, it should have been recorded had it been made by
parties whose title is conveyed by it.

(4958) § 8. In case of a judgment to compel a party to.exe- 00
Cute a conveyance of real estate, the court may enforce the j.udg- gm:
ment by attachment or sequestration, or appoint a commissioner
to make the conveyance. _ _

(4959) § 9. If the conveyance is made by a commissioner ap- Fm
pointed by the court, the following form may be used, viz_: “A. mis-si<
B., commissioner by the order (or judgment) of (naming the
court) in the case of (naming the party plaintifff) against (naming

the party defendant) or on petitio
the petitioner as A. B., adminis

n of (naming the description of
trator of C. D.) or guardian of

(naming the wards) entered in (describe the kind of record, number of volume, and page),

conveys to E. F., (describe the premises), for (state the consideration.)

ARTICLE 3 I ,——DI\'ORCE.

SECTION.
I. Marriages void.
2. Marriages voidable, issue legitimate.
Issue of certain marriages legitimate.

4: When issue legitimate though former 4

marriage exist.
5. Proceedings to determine legitimacy.
6. Judgment how opened, purchasers

SECTION.

12. When prosecutor to resist.

13. Answer, proofs required.

14. Cross-petition and proceedings thereon.

15. Witnesses, depositions.

16. Interlocutory orders, how enforced.
I7. Misconduct of husband, rights as to

protected. realty.
7. Pgtition for divorce, residence, aFfi— I8. Misconduct of wife, rights as to
avit. realt .
8. Causes, how specified. 19. Alimonyy.
. Summons and service. 20. Custody of children.
10. Notice by publication, copy, when 2 . Decree of alimony, how payable.
m=ll1€d- zg, Effect of divorce.
11. Issue and trial. 23 Divorce granted in another state.

(4960) § 1. All marriages prohibited by law on account of
consanguinity, affinity, difference of color, or where either party
thereto have a former wife or husband living, is solemnized within this Territory, shall be absolutely void without any legal proceedings.

(496!) § 2. When either of the parties to a marriage shall be
incapable, from want of age or understanding, of contracting
such marriage, the same shall be declared void, on application
of the incapable party, by any court having jurisdiction to decree divorces; but the children of such marriage, begotten before the same is annulled, shall be legitimate; in such cases the
same proceedings shall be had as is provided in applications for
divorce.

. (4962) § 3.’ The issue of a marriage, void on account of san“'guinity, affinity, or difference of color, shall be deemed to be legitimate.
le_ (4963) § 4. When either of the parties to a marriage void begigicause of_former marriage exists undissolved shall have contracted
such VOlCl marriage in the reasonable belief that such disability
did not exist, the issue of such marriage begotten before the discovery of such disability by such innocent party shall be deemed
legitimate.
_ (4964) § 5. For the purpose of evidence any person or persons
interested in the question of such legitimacy may file his petition
in the district court or probate court of any county in this Territory where either of the parties to said marriage may reside, setting forth the facts and making defendants thereto all
persons interested in such question, and give such notice to said
defendants as is by this act required to be given to the defendant
on a petition for a divorce, and the court on hearing such petition
shall decree such issue to be legitimate or illegitimate as the

to

facts may be. _ And from such decree an appeal may be taken to
the Supreme Court, and when taken the case shall be governed
by the same rules and disposed of as other civil actions are in
cases of appeal.

(4965) § 6. Parties against whom a judgment of divorce has
been rendered, without other notice than publication in a newspaper may have the same opened at any time, so far as relates to the
care, support and custody of the children. Parties against whom
a judgment for divorce shall hereafter be rendered, without other
notice than a publication in a newspaper, may at any time within
two years after the rendition of such judgment have the same opened
and be allowed to defend as well on the granting of the divorce
as in relation to the allowance of alimony and the disposition of
property; and until the expiration of said two years, it shall not
be lawful for the parties obtaining such divorce to marry again;
which shall be stated in the decree of the court. Before any
judgment shall be opened, as above, for any cause, the applicant
shall file a statement of the causes relied upon, and give such notice thereof as the court in term time, or the judge thereof, in
vacation, shall require. And when the causes specified by such
applicant relate to the granting of the divorce, alimony and disposition of property, or either of them, the applicant shall file an
alhdavit stating that during the pendency of theaction, he or she
received no actual notice thereof, in time to appear in court at
the time of the trial ‘of such action, and object to said judgment,
and shall also place such costs as the court may direct. Any
property which may have been sold under any such judgment so
sought to be opened, and which may have passed into the hands
of a purchaser or purchasers in good faith, shall not be affected
by any proceeding consequent upon the opening of such judgment.

(4966) § 7. Divorce may be decreed by the district and probate courts of this Territory, on petition filed by any person who, 3:
at the time of the Filing of such petition, is and shall have been a
éozza fizz’: resident of the Territory for the last two years previous
_to the filing of the same, and a éorza jide resident of the county at
the time of and for at least six months immediately preceding
the filing of such petition, which éona _/ide residence shall be duly
proven by such petitioner, to the satisfaction of the court trying
the same, by at least two witnesses who are resident freeholders
and householders of the Territory, And the plaintifff shall, with
his petition, File with the clerk of the court an affidavit subscribed
and worn to by himself, in which he shall state the length of time
he has been a resident of the Territory, and statingparticularly
the place, town, city or township in which he has resided for the
last two years past, and stating his occupation, which shall ‘be
sworn to before the clerk of the court in which said complaint
is .

(@3617) § 8. A petition for divorce shall specify the causes Sp:
therefore with certainty to a common intent. . _ _ .

(4968) § 9. The clerk of the court in which such petition is S
filed shall issue a summons for the defendant to appear and answer 9°"
such petition; which summons shall be personally served on the

said defendant, if a resident of the Territory, either by reading or
leaving a copy thereof at his or her usual place of residence; such
usual place to be the residence of such defendant at the time the
copy is so left.

(4969) § 10. If it shall appear by the affidavit of a disinterested person that the defendant is not a resident of this Territory
the clerk shall give notice of the pendency of such petition, by
publication for three successive weeks in some weekly newspaper
of general circulation. published in such county, or if there be no
such paper, then in one published in this Territory nearest to the
county seat of such county: Provz'a’ed, That the plaintifff shall in
case such notice is to be given by publication as aforesaid, before
the same is given, file his or her affidavit with the clerk, stating
therein the residence of the defendant, if such residence be known
to the plaintifff, such affidavit shall so state; and in case such affidavit state the residence of the defendant the clerk shall forward
by mail to such defendant the number of the paper containing

such notice and the notice marked.
(4970) § 11. The cause shall stand for issue and trial at the

first term of the court after the summons has been personally served
upon the defendant ten days, or publication had been made thirty
days before the first days of such term.

(4971) § 12. Whenever a petition for divorce remains undefended it shall be the duty of the county attorney to appear and
resist such petition.

R (4972) § 13. The defendant shall answer said petition under
‘ oath, if required to do so by the petitioners, but no decree shall be
rendered on default without proof, nor shall any admissions made
in said answer be used as evidence in any other case against
said defendant; nor shall the denial under oath, by the defendant,
of the facts alleged in the petition rendered necessary any other or
further proof by the complainant than would have been necessary
if such denial had not been under oath. .
(4973) § 14. In addifion to an answer the defendant may file
;a cross petifion for divorce, and when Filed the court shall decree
the divorce to the party legally entitled thereto. If the original
petition be dismissed after the filing of the cross petition, the defendant may proceed to the trial of the cross petition without

further notice to the adverse party, and the case upon such cross

petition shall in all things be governed by the same rules applicable to a case on an orignal petition.

__ (4974)  15. Witnesses may be examined in court or depositions taken and used as in other civil actions, at the option of the
party offering the testimony. but this section shall not be construed to authorize the taking of depositions where the witnesses
can be compelled to attend and testify as provided by law in
other cases unless the judge for good cause shown shall otherwise
direct. '

(4975) § 16. Pending a petition for divorce. the court or the

' judge thereof in vacation, shall make and by attachment enforce
such orders for the disposition of the persons, property and children of the parties as may be deemed right and proper, and such

orders relative to the expenses of such suit as will insure to the
wife an elhcient preparation of her case and a fair and impartial
treatment thereof. And on decreeing a divorce in favor of the
wife or refusing one on the application of the husband the court
shall, by order to be enforced by attachment, require the husband
to pay all reasonable expenses of the wife in the prosecution or
defense of the petition when such divorce has been granted or refused: Provz'a'ea’, That such orders shall be made .under the same
rules and regulations, and upon such notice as restraining orders
and injunctions are granted in other civil actions, except that no
bond shall be required of either party.

(4976) § 17. A divorce granted for misconduct of the husband
shall entitle the wife to the same rights, so far as her real estate
is concerned, that she would have been entitled to by his death.

(4977) § 18. A divorce decreed on account of the misconduct
of the wife shall entitle the husband to the same rights, so far as
his real estate is concerned, as he would have been entitled to by
her death. ‘

(4978) § 19. The court shall make such decree for alimony
in all cases contemplated by this act, as the circumstances of the
case shall render just and proper; and such decree for alimony
heretofore made or hereinafter made, shall be valid against the
husband, whether asked for in the petition or given by the judge
on default.

(4979) § 20. The court in decreeing a divorce shall make
provision for the guardianship, custody, support, and education of
the minor children of such marriage.

(4980) § 21. The decree for alimony to the wife shall be for
a sum in gross, and not for annual payments; but the court, in its
discretion, may give a reasonable time‘ for the payment thereof
by installments, on sulhcient surety being given. And in all cases
where alimony has been thus given by installments, or may hereafter be given, and the surety required shall not be given within
thirty days from the date of such decree, then the whole amount
01 such alimony shall become due and payable the same as if no
such installments had been mentioned in the decree.

(4981) § 22. The divorce of one party shall fully dissolve the
marriage contract as to both. _

. (4982) § 23. A divorce decree in any other state or territory,
by acourt having jurisdiction hhereof, shall have full effect in this

Territory.

. ARTICLE 32.——E]ECTMENT.

SECTION. SECTION.

1. Action for possession, I2. Damages and set-off.

2. Landlord, when substituted, notice. 13. Exemplary damages.

3. Landlord, when bound. 14. Proof against co-tenant.

4. Service upon agent, when. 15. New trial of right, bond.

5. Contents ofcomplaint. 16. New trial, after term.

6. Answer in denial, effect. 17. Innocent purchasers.

7. Proof ofdefendant’s possession, when 18. Damages in lieu of land.
needless. ' 19. Entry and survey.

8. Plaintiff must show title. 20. Order and service.

9 Use of premises. recovery of, limit. 21. Action to quiet title.

I0. When plaintifff recovers damages 22. Quieting title and partition, rules.
only. 23. Disclaimer, costs.
It. Recovery, separate or joint, accord- 24. Real party in interest to be plaintifff

ing to right.

_ (4983) § 1. Any person having a valid subsisting interest in
real property and a right to the possession thereof may recover
the same by action to be brought against the tenant in possession;
if there be no such tenant then against the person claiming the
title or some interest therein.

(4984)  2. Whenever it appears that the defendant is only a

'tenant, the landlord may be substituted, with reasonable notice
thereof being given.

(4985) § 3. In action against a tenant, the jndgment shall be
conclusive evidence against the landlord who has received notice
as hereinbefore provided.

(4986) § 4. When the defendant is a non-resident, service for
the property may be levied upon his agent residing in the Territory with the like effect as though made upon the principal, or service may be made by publication, as in other cases.

(4987)  5. The plaintifff in his complaint shall state that he
is entitled to the possession of the premises, particularly describing them, the interest he claims therein, and that the defendant
unlawfully keeps him out of possession.

(4988) § 6. The answer of the defendant may contain a denial
of each material statement or allegation in the complaint, under
which denial the defendant shall be permitted to give in evidence
every defense to the action that he may have, either legal or
equitable. ‘

(4989) § 7. When the defendant makes defense, it shall not

'be necessary to prove him in possession of the premises.

(4990) § 8. The plaintifff must recover on the strength of his
own title.

(4991) § 9. The plaintifff cannot recover for the use and oc‘cupation of the premises for more than six years next before the
commencement of the action; but may recover, in the same action,
for use and occupation up to the time of its termination.

' (4992) § 10. If the interest of the plaintifff expire before the
time in which he could be put in possession, he shall obtain a judgment for damages only.

_ (4993)  11. Where there are two or more plaintifffs or de_fendants, any one or more of the plaintifffs may recover against
one or more of the defendants the premises or any part thereof, or

interest therein, or damages according to the right of the parties,
but the recovery shall not be for a greater interest than that
claimed.

(4994) § 12. When a plaintifff, in an action of this nature, is
entitled to damages for withholding or using or injuring his property, the defendant may set off the value of any permanent improvements made thereon to the extent of such ‘damages, unless
he prefer to avail himself of the law for the benefit of occupying
claimants. .

(4995) § 13. In case of wanton aggression on the part of a

defendant, the jury may award exemplary damages.

(4997) § 14. In action by a tenant in common or joint-tenant
real property against his co-tenant, the plaintifff must show in addition to his evidence of right, that defendant either denied plaintifff’s right or did some act amounting to such denial. .

(4997) § 15. The court rendering the judgment on application made within one year thereafter by the party against whom
judgment is rendered, his heirs, assigns or representatives, and on
the applicant giving an undertaking with surety to be approved by
the court or clerk that he will pay all costs and damages which
shall be recovered against him in action, shall vacate the judgment and grant a new trial. The court shall grant but one new
trial under the provisions'of this section.

(4998) § 16. If the application for a new trial is made after
the close of the term at which the judgment is rendered, the‘
party obtaining a new trial shall give the opposite party ten days
notice thereof before the term next succeeding the granting of
the application.

(4999) § 17. The result of the new trial, if application therefore is made after the close of the term'at which the judgment is‘
rendered, shall in no case effect the interest of third persons, acquired in good faith, for a valuable consideration, since the former
trial.

(5000) § 18. But the party who on such trial, shows himself
entitled to the lands which have thus passed to the hands of a,
purchaser in good faith may recover the proper amount of damages against the other party, either in the same or subsequent actions.

(5001) § 19. The court, on motion, and after notice_to the
opposite party, may, for cause shown, grant an order allowing the ’
party applying therefore to enter upon the property in controversy.
and make survey and measurement thereof for the purposes of the
action. '

(5002)  20. The order must describe the property,.and acopy
thereof must be served upon the owner or person having the occupancy and control of the land. , _

(5003) § 21. An action may be brought by any person either“
in or out of possession, or by any one having an interest in remainder or reversion, against another who'claims title to or interest in real property adverse to him, although the defendant may
not be in possession thereof, for the purpose of determining and

quieting the question of title.

‘A

_ (5004) § 22. The rules above prescribed shall, in such cases,
be observed as far as they are applicable; and in partition cases,
when the title to real estate is bona fide in question, upon the

pleadings and evidence between the parties.

(5005) § 23. If in such cases the defendant disclaim in his
answer any interest or real estate in the property, or suffer judgment to be taken against him without answer, the defendant shall
recover costs.

(5006) § 24. Any person having a sight to recover the possession of real estate, or to quiet title thereto in the name of any
other person or persons, shall have a right to recover possession
or quiet title in his own name; and no action shall be defeated or
reversed where it might have been successively maintained by the
plaintifff, in the name of another, to inure to his benefit: Prozvzdcd,
That the provisions of this act shall not apply to or affect pending
actions.

ARTICLE 33.——FORECLOSURE or MORTGAGE.

SECTION. SECTION.

I. Posession of premises, I2. Personaljudgment, order Of Sale2. How construed, remedy. 13. Clerk to enter satisfaction, fees.

3. Foreclosure before sale. I4. Order of sale.

4. Purchase money, priority. 15. Copy oforder, how issued sale.

5. Entry of satisfaction. effect. 16. When cannot foreclose.

6. Certificate of satisfaction record. 17. Installments not due, proceedin gs.
7. Foreclosure by Territory. 18. Sale in parcels, order.

8. Assignments, how made. 19. Whole to be sold, when.

9. Parties, effects of sale, redemption. 20. P1aintifl‘s endorsement on execution

IO. Foreclosure.
It. When remedy confined to mortgaged
property.

(5007) § 1. Unless a mortgage specially provide that the
mortgagee shall have possesson of the mortgaged premises he shall
not be entitled to the same.

(5008) § 2. No mortgage shall be construed as implying a
covenant for the payment of the sum intended to be secured. so
as to enable the mortgagee, his assigns, or representatives to
maintain an action for the recovery of such sum, and where there
IS no express covenant contained in the mortgage for such payment
and no bond or other separate instrument to secure such payment
shall have been given, the remedies of the mortgagee shall be confmed to the lands mentioned in the mortgage.

(5009) § 3. No mortgage of real estate, or instrument operating as having the legal effect of a mortgage, hereafter executed,
shall authorize the mortgagee to sell the mortgaged premises, but
every such sale shall be made under a judicial proceeding.

(5010)  4. A mortgage granted by apurchaser to secure purchase money shall have preference over a prior judgment against
such purchaser.

(5011) § 5. livery mortgagee of lands whose mortgage has been
recorded. having received full payment of the sum or sums of
money, therein specified, from the mortgagor, shall, at the request
of such mortgagor, enter satisfaction on the margin or other proper place in the record, of such mortgage, which shall operate as a
complete release and discharge thereof.

(5012) § 6. - Where such mortgage has been paid and 'satisfied
by the mortgagor, he may take a certificate thereof, duly acknowledged by the mortgagee or his lawful agent, as herein required for
the acknowledgment of conveyances, to entitle the same to be recorded, which certificate and acknowledgment shall be recorded
by the recorder in whose office such mortgage is recorded, with a
reference to the book and page containing the record of the mortgage aforesaid, and such recorded certificate shall forever discharge and release the mortgagor from such mortgage, and forever bar all suits and actions thereon.

(5013) § 7. Nothing in this act shall affect any provisions
made by law in relation to the foreclosure of mortgages to the
Territory of Oklahoma, so far as the same conflict with the provisions of this act.

(5014) § 8. Any mortgage of record, or any part thereof,
either by assignment entered on the margin of such record, signed]
by the person making the assignment and attested by the recorder, or by a separate instrument executed and acknowledged
before any person authorized to take acknowledgments, and recorded on such margin, or in the mortgage records of the county,
in which case such assignment shall be noted in such margin by
the recorder, by reference to the book and page where such assignment is recorded. And after such entry is made of record,
the mortgagor and all other persons shall be bound thereby, and
the same shall be deemed a public record. Any assignee or his
personal representatives may enter satisfaction or release of
the mortgage; or the part thereof held by him of record as aforesaid.

(5015) § 9. And in a suit to foreclose said mortgage, it shallo
be sufficient to make the mortgagee, or the assignee shown by ti
said record to hold an interest therein, plaintifffs. And all persons
failing to cause assignment to them to be made or put of record in
the manner aforesaid, unless they cause themselves to be made
parties pending the action, shall be bound by such decree as may
be rendered, the same as if they had been parties to the suit. And
any purchaser at judicial sale of the mortgaged premises, or any
part thereof, under such decree or claiming title under the same,
buying without actual notice of any assignment not thus of record,
or of the transfer of any note, the holder whereof was not a party
to the action, shall hold the said premises, so purchased, free and
discharged‘ of such lien: ,ProzIz'a’ed, /Z0106‘?/6'7. That an)’ a55‘?§"ee
or transfer may redeem said premises, like any other creditor.
during the period of one.year allowed by statutes after SUCh
sales.

(5016) § 10. When default is made in the performance of
any condition contained in a mortgage. th€_ mortgagee 0’ h‘5 as‘
signs, may proceed, in the district court of the county -where the
land lies, to foreclose the equity of redemption contained in the ‘
mortgage. _ cox

(5017) § 11. When there is no express agreement in the ga.

mortgage, nor any separate instrument given for the payment of
the sum secured thereby, the remedy of the mortgagee shall be
confined to the property mortgaged.

(5018) § 12. In rendering judgment of foreclosure, the court
shall give personal judgment against any party to the suit liable
upon any agreement or agreements, for the payment of any sum
or sums -of money secured by the mortgage, and shall order the
mortgaged premises, or so much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy the mortgage and judgment and costs of the action, to be
first sold, before levy of execution upon other property of the
defendant. The payment of the mortgaged debt, with interest
and costs, at any time before sale, shall satisfy the judgment.

. (5019) § 13. Upon the foreclosure of any mortgage in the district coui't of any county in this Territory, and upon the payment
and satisfaction of such judgment as may be rendered in such proceedings in forclosure, in said court, the clerk thereof shall immediately thereafter enter satisfaction of said mortgage on the records of the recorder’s office of such county, if the same shall have
been recorded: Prozridea’, That the record in foreclosure and satisfaction thereof shall show that the whole debt secured by such
mortgage has been paid. Such clerk shall tax a fee of forty cents
in each case of foreclosure requiring satisfaction, which shall be
paid as other costs in such cases; twenty cents of which he shall
pay to the recorder for his services, retaining twenty cents for
his own services. '

(5020) § 14. When there is an express written agreement
for the payment of the sum of money secured contained in the
mortgage or any separate instrument, and the court shall direct,
in the order of sale, the balance due on the mortgage, and costs
which may remain unsatisfied after the sale of mortgaged premises, shall be levied of any property of the mortgage-debtor.

(5021) § 15.’ The copy of the order of sale and judgment

:shall be issued and certified'by the clerk, under the seal of the

court, to the sheriff, who shall thereupon proceed to sell the
mortgaged premises, or so much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy the judgment, interest and costs, as upon execution, and
if any part of the judgment, interest and costs remain unsatisfied,
the sheriff shall forthwith proceed to levy the residue on the other
property of the defendant.

(5022) § 16. The plaintifff shall not proceed to foreclose his
mortgage while he_is prosecuting any other action for the same
debt or matter which is secured by the mortgage, or while he is
seeking to obtain execution of any judgment in such other action,
nor shall he prosecute any other .action for the same matter,
while he is foreclosing his mortgage or prosecuting a judgment of
foreclosure.

(5023) § 17. Whenever a complaint is filed for the foreclosure
of a mortgage upon which there shall be due any interest, or installment of the principal, and there are other installments not
due, if the defendant pay into court the principal and interest due,
with costs, at any time before final judgment, the complaint shall
be dismissed; if such payment be made after final judgment, proceedings thereon shall be stayed, subject to be enforced upon a
subsequent default in the payment of any installment of the principal and interest thereafter becoming due. In the linaljudgment.
the court shall direct at what time and upon what default any subsequent execution shall issue. , _

(5024) § 18. In such cases, the court shall ascertain whether
the property can be sold in parcels, and, if it can be done without
injury to the interest of the parties, the court shall direct so
much only of the premises to be sold as will be sufficient to pay
the amount then due on a mortgage, with costs, and the judgment
shall remain and be in force upon _any subsequent default, unless
the amount due shall be paid before execution of the judgment is
perfected. '

(5025) § 19. If the mortgaged premises cannot be sold in.
parcels the court shall order the whole to be sold, and the pro-'
ceeds of the sale shall be applied first to the payment of the principal due, interest and costs, and then to the residue secured by
the mortgage, and not due. And if the residue do not bear interest a deduction shall be made therefrom, by discounting the legal interest. And in all cases where the proceeds shall be more
than sufhcient to pay the amount due and costs, the surplus shall
be paid to the mortgage debtor, his heirs or assigns.

(5026) § 20. Whenever an execution shall issue upon a judgment recovered for a debt secured by amortgage of the real prop-j
erty, the plaintifff shall indorse thereon a brief description of the
mortgaged premises and the equity of redemption shall in no case

be sold on execution.

ARTICLE 34.—INFORMATIONS.

Si-:cTioN.' SECTION _

1. when med, 9. One information against several.
2, By whom med_ [0 Judgment of ouster and for_feiturc.
3, Ofwhat consist, ll. Judgment against corporations.
4, For us“;-ping office_ 12. lo recover escheated property.

5. Summons and proceeedings. 13- (-‘05l5- _

6. Contest for olhcc, judgment. 14- '10 3”“?! “‘5“'“‘!‘°“‘7. judgment for relator. 15- Proceedmgs to annul8. Damages.

(5027) § 1. An information may be filed against any person

or corporation in the following cases: _ '
First. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully hold or exercise any public olhce or any franchise within
this Territory, or any oliice in any corporation created by the

authority of the Territory.
Second. Whenever any public Ol‘l:lC€I' shall have done or suffered

any act which, by the provisions of law, shall work a forfeiture of
his office.

Third. Where any association or number of ‘persons shall act,
with this Territory, as a corporation, without being legally incorporated. _ _
Fourth. Or where any corporation do or omit acts Which

amount to a surrender or forfeiture of their rights and privileges

as a corporation, or when they exercise powers not conferred by
law.

(5028) § 2. The information may be filed by the county attorney or attorney general in the district court of the proper
county, upon his own relation, whenever he shall deem it his duty
to do so, or shall be directed by the court or other competent authority, or by any other person, on his own relation, whenever he
claims an interestin the office, franchise or corporation which is
the subject of the information.

(5029) § 3. The information shall consist of a plain statement
of the facts which constitute the grounds of the proceeding, addressed to the court. 3

(5030) § 4. Whenever an information shall be filed against a
person for usurping an office, by the county attorney or attorney
general, he shall also set forth therein the name of the person
rightfully entitled to the otT1ce, with an averment of his right
thereto; and when filed by any other person, he shall show his
interest in the matter; and he may claim the damages he has sustained.

(5031) § 5. VS/henever an information is filed, a summons
shall issue thereon; which shall be served and returned as in other
actions. The defendant shall appear and answer, or suffer default,
and subsequent proceedings be had as in other cases.

(5032) § 6. In every case contesting the right to an office,
judgment shall be rendered upon the rights of the parties and for
damages the relator may show himself entitled to, if any, to the
time of the judgment.

(5033) § 7. If judgment be rendered in favor of the relator,
he shall proceed to exercise the function of the otT1ce, after he has
been qualified as required by law; and the court shall order the
defendant to deliver over all books and papers, pursuant -to the
order, and the court, or judge thereof, shall enforce the order by
attachment and imprisonment.

(5034) § 8. When the judgment is rendered in favor of the
plaintifff, he may if he has not claimed his damages in the information, have his action for the damages at any time within one year
after the judgment.

(5035) § 9. When several persons claim to be entitled to the
same office or franchise, one information may be filed against any
or all such persons, in order to try their respective rights to the
oliice or franchise.

(5036) § 10. VVhenever any person shall be found guilty of
any usurpation of, or intrusion into, or unlawfully exercising any
office or any franchise within this Territory, or any office in any
corporation created by the authority of this Territory, or when
any public officer, thus charged, shall be found guilty of having
done or suffered any act 'which, by the provisions of law, shall
work a forfeiture of his office, or when any association or number
of persons shall be found guilty of having acted as a corporation,
without having been legally incorporated, the court shall give
judgment of ouster against the defendant, and e'xclude him from
the office, franchise, or corporate rights, (and in cases of corporaamong the creditors. The county attorney and Attorney General
shall immediately institute proceedings for that purpose.

(5038)  12. Whenever any property shall escheat or be forfeited to the Territory for its use, the legal title shall be deemed °
to be in the Territory from the time of the escheat or forfeiture,
and an information may be filed by the Attorney General or
county attorney in the district for the recovery of the property,
alleging the ground on which the recovery is claimed, and like
proceedings and judgment shall be had as in a civil action for the
recovery of the property.

(5039) § 13. When an information is filed by the Attorney
General or county attorney, he shall not be liable for costs, but

when it is filed upon the relation of a private person. he shall be
liable for costs, unless the same are adjudged against the defendant.

(5040) § 14. A.n information may be prosecuted for the pur- U
pose of annulling or vacating any letters patent, certificate ors
deed granted by the proper authorities of this Territory, when
there is reason to believe that the same were obtained by fraud,
or through mistake or ignorance of a material fact, or when the
patentee or those claiming under him shall have done or omitted
an act in violation of _the terms -on which the letters, deeds,Aor
certificate was granted, or have by any means forfeited the interest acquired under the same.

(5041) § 15. In such cases, the. information may be filed by ,
the Attorney General or county attorney upon his relation, or by ““
any private person upon his relation, showing his interest in the
subject matter, and the subsequent proceeding, judgment of the
court and awarding of costs shall conform to the above provisions.
and such letters patent, deed, or certificate shall be annulled or
sustained according to the right of the case.

ARTICLE 35.——INJUNC'I‘IONS.

sgc-“ON, SECTION. _

]_  may grant. IL  and whom binds.

2. Proceedings to obtain. 12. Notice. _ _ ‘

3. Application to be verified. 13- Money 9n Judgment mowed4. Notice unneccessary unless emer- I4. Order dlsobeyed, Contempt;

gency_ 15. Service of attachment, action of the

5. Afiidavits may be read. COM‘6. Terms and conditions. 16- B00‘-‘1 °f P“",Y' _

7_ |30m[_ I7. Motions to dissolve ‘or modify.

8. Second bond unnecessary, e‘<Ception. 18- Damages _°" d'550l""‘g9- Copy oforder a sufficient writ. I9. Damages include rents and waste.

10. Stay of judgment, release of errors. 20- M°‘i°“ ‘° r°i“5““°'

(5042) § 1. ' Restraining orders and injunctions may be granted
by the Supreme Court in term time, when necessary and proper
for the due exercise of the jurisdiction and powers of such court,
or by any judge thereof in vacation or recess, and by the district
courts in their respective counties in term time, or by the judges
thereof in vacation, or by a probate judge and the said courts in
term time, or the judge thereof in vacation may, in any county of
the district, issue restraining orders or injunctions to operate in
any other county in the district.

(5043) § 2. VVhen it appears by the complaint that the plain‘tiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and the relief, or any part
thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of
some act, the commission or continuance of which duringthe
litigation, wquld produce great injury to the plaintifff; or when,
during the litigation, it appears that the defendant is doing, or
threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering some
act to be done, in violation of the plaintifff's rights, respecting the subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment
ineffectual; or when such relief, or any part thereof, consists in
restraining proceedings upon any final order or judgment, an injunction may be granted to restrain such acts or proceedings until the further order of the court; which may, afterward, be modified upon motion. And when it appears'in the complaint at the
commencement of the action, or during the pendency thereof by
affidavit, that the defendant threatens or is about to remove or
dispose of his property with intent topdefraud his creditors, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain the removal or dispesition of his property.

0 (5044) § 3. In all applications for an injunction, the complaint shall be verified by affidavit. The injunction may be
granted at the time of commencing the action, or at any time
afterward before judgment in the proceeding.

(5045) § 4. No injunction shall be granted until it shall appear to the court or judge granting it, that some one or more of
the opposite party concerned has had reasonable notice of the
time and place of making the application; except that in cases of
emergency to be shown in the complaint, the court may grant a
restraining order until notice can be given and hearing thereon.

(5046) § 5. On the hearing of an application for a restraining

order or temporary injunction, each party may read affidavits of

documentary or record evidence.

(5047)  6. Upon the granting or continuing of an injunction
such terms and conditions may be imposed upon the party obtaining it as may be deemed equitable.

(5048) § 7. No injunction or restraining orders shall be granted until the party asking it shall enter into a written undertaking
with surety to be approved by the court or judge, to the adverse party effected thereby, for the payment of all damages
and costs which may accrue by reason of the injunction or restrainmg order.

(5049) § 8. VVhen an injunction is granted upon the hearing,
after a temporary restraining order, the plaintifff shall not be required to enter into a second written undertaking, unless the former shall be deemed insulhcient, but the plaintifff and his surety
shall remain liable upon the original undertaking. '

(5050) § 9. It shall not be necessary to issue a writ of injunction, but the clerk shall issue a copy of the order of injunction,
duly certified by him; which shall be forthwith served by delivering the same to the adverse party.

(5051) § 10. In applications to stay proceedings afterjudg—
ment, the plaintifff shall indorse upon his complaint a release of
errors in the judgment whenever required to do so by the judgment
or court. ‘

(5052) § 11. An order of injunction shall bind every person and officer restrained, from the time he is informed thereof.

(5053) § 12. When notice of the application for an injunction
has been given to the adverse party it shall not be necessary to
serve the order upon him, but he shall be bound by the injunction
as soon as the written undertaking required of the plaintifff is executed and delivered to the proper olhcer.

(5054) §, 13. Money collected upon a judgment afterward injoined remaining in the hands of the collecting olhcer, shall be_'
paid to the clerk of the court granting the injunction, subject to
the order of the court.

(5055) § 14. When it shall appear to any court granting an]
order of injunction, or judge thereof in vacation, by affidavit, that
any person has willfully disobeyed the order, after notice thereof,
such court or judge shall award an attachment for contempt
against the party charged or a rule to show cause why it should
not issue. The attachment or rule shall be issued by the clerk
of the court, and directed to the sheriff, and shall be served by
him.

(5056) § 15. The attachment for contempt shall be imrnedi-I
ately served by arresting the party charged. and bringing him in—,
to court, if in session, to be dealt with as in other cases of contempt; and the court shall also take all necessary. measures to secure and indemnify the plaintifff against damages in the premises.

(5057) § 16. If the court be not in session the officer making
the arrest shall cause the person to enter into a written undertaking,‘ with surety to be approved by the officer, personally to appear in open court, onthe first day of the next term“ thereof, to
answer such contempt, and that he will pay to the plaintifff all his
damages and costs occasioned by the breach of the order; and in
default thereof he shall be committed to the jail of the county,
until he shall enter into such written undertaking with surety, or
be otherwise legally discharged. _ 0 _ _

(5058) § 17. Motions to dissolve or modify injunctions may:
be made in open court at any time after the adverse party has had
reasonable notice. _

(5059)  18. \/Vhen an injunction to stay proceedings after
judgment for debt or damages shall be dissolved the court shall

award such damages not exceeding ten per Cent 0“ the ludg"

ment, as the court may deem right, against the party in whose
. favor the injunction issued.
(5060)  19. If an injunction to stay proceedings after verdict
ior judgment in an action for the recovery of real estate or the possession thereof be dissolved, the damages assessed against the
party obtaining the injunction shall include the reasonable rents
and profits of the land recovered, and all waste committed after
granting the injunction.

(5061) § 20. Upon an order being made dissolving or modifying an order of injunction, the plaintifff may move the court to
reinstate the order, and the court may, in its discretion, allow the
motion, and appoint a time for hearing the same before the court
or at a time and place for hearing before some judge thereof; and
upon the hearing, the parties may produce such additional affidavits or depositions as the court shall direct, and the order of injunction shall be dissolved, modified, or reinstated as the court or
judge may deem right. Until the hearing of the motion to reinstate t_he order of injunction, the order to dissolve or modify it
shall be suspended.

ARTICLE 36.——MANDATE AND_PROHIBITION.

SECTION. SECTION.

I. What courts issue. 7. Power of court.

2. To whom and for what purpose. 8. Obedience, how enforced.
3. Application, neglect to return. 9. Writ of prohibition.

4. Writ, alternative or peiemptory. io. Judgment in prohibition.
5. Issues, proceedings. 1 I. Costs.

6. Damages, peremptory writ.

(5062) § 1. Writs of mandate and prohibition may issue
from the Supreme and district courts of this Territory, but such
writs shall issue from the Supreme Court only when necessary for
the exercise of its functions and powers.

(5063) § 2. Writs of mandate may be issued to any inferior
tribunal, corporation, board or person to compel the performance
of an act which the law specially enjoins or a duty resulting from
an office, trust or station.

_ (5064) § 3. The writ shall be issued upon affidavit and motion, and shall be attested and sealed, and made returnable as the
court shall direct, and the person, body, or tribunal to whom the
same shall be directed and delivered, shall make return, and for
neglect to do so shall be proceeded against as for a contempt.

(5065) § 4. The first writ shall be issued in the alternative or

peremptory as the court shall direct.
_ (5066) § 5. Whenever a return shall be made to any writ
issues of law and fact may be joined, and like proceedings shall
be had for the trial of issues and rendering judgment as in civil
actions.

(5067) §'6. In case a verdict shall be found for the plaintifff
where the writ is in the alternative, or if judgment be given for
him he shall recover damages as in action fora false return against

the party making the return and a peremptory writ shall be granted
without delay.

(5068) § 7. The court shall have the power to enlarge the
time of making the return and pleading to such writ and for
filing any subsequent pleadings, and to continue such cause, as in
civil actions. 7

(5069) § 8. Obedience to such writs may be enforced by attachment, and fine or imprisonment, or both.

(5070) § 9. The writ of prohibition shall command the court
and party to whom it shall be directed, to refrain from any further
proceedings in the matter therein specified until the return of the
writ and the further order of the court thereon,'and upon the return, to show cause why they shall not be absolutely restrained
from any further proceedings in the matter.

(5071) § 10. The court shall render judgment, either that a
prohibition absolute, restrain the court and party from proceeding
in the matter, do issue, or authorizing the court and party to proceed in the matter in question. (5072) § 11. Costs shall be awarded in these proceedings as
in civil actions.

ARTICLE 3 7. ——PARTITION.

SECTION. SECTION. _
I. Who may compel. 13. Report, how set aside, new commis2. Petition, contents,jurisdiction. Si0n6rS-_ _ _

3. Proceedings as in civil cases, 14. Land indivisible, sal_e,_ appraisement.
4. Interlocutory judgment, sale when. 15. Effect of partial partition.‘

5. Testator’s intention governs, 16. Commissioner to sell, bond.

6. Commissioners, 17. Commissioners deed.

7. oath, 18. Commissioners cannot purchase.

8. Shares when set off together. I9‘. Proceed. 110'-‘f distributed9. Guardian's act for wards. 20. Two commissioners may act:

10. Minors, party, commissioners may 2!. Vacancy. 5t1Cf3°§5°t"3 acts Val'd- '

plat into lots, 22. Pay of commissioners.

II. Repof[, how made_ ' 23. Costs how apportioned:

I2. Confirmation, judgment,‘ 24. Proceedings, when reviewed.

(5073) § 1. Any person holding lands as joint-tenant or termant in common, whether in his own right or as an executor or “
trustee, may compel partition thereof in the manner provided in
this act. An administrator or executor may also compel partition as a tenant in common or joint tenant may do, whenever, in
the discharge of his duties as such, it shall be necessary for him
to sell the estate of the decedent therein. _

(5074) § 2. Any such tenant may apply to the Cl.lStl‘lCt. court,
or court having probate jurisdiction of the county in which t.he§fc'
lands or part thereof may lie. by petition, setting forth a description of the premises and the rights and titles therein of the persons (interested. _

(5075) § 3. The proceedings, practice, and pleadings shall be. 1
the same as in civil suits, except as otherwise provided in in
this act.‘

(5076) § 4. If upon- trial of any issue, of UPOH d€f3-Utt» 01' by‘ 5,}
consent of parties, it shall appear that partition ought to bemade, mm
the court shall award an interlocutory judgment that partition be
made to parties who m_ay desire same, specifying therein the share
assigned to each, and taking into consideration advancements to

heirs of a person dying intestate; and the residue of the premises
shall remain for the persons entitled thereto, subject to a future
partition. But if upon trial of any issue, or upon default, or by
confession or consent of parties, it shall appear that the lands of
which partition is demanded, cannot be divided without damage
to the owners, then, and in that case, the court in its discretion
may order the whole or any such part of the premises to be
sold, as provided for in section 5086

(5077) § 5. Such court shall not order or alT1rm partition of
any real estate contrary to the intention of the testator; expressed
in his will.

(5078) § 6. Upon judgment of partition, the court shall appoint three disinterested resident freeholders of the county in
which such court is held, not of kin to any of the parties who
shall make partition of such lands, in pursuance of the judgment
of the court.

(5079) § 7. Before proceeding to discharge their duties such
commissioners shall take an oath faithfully to perform the duties
of their trust, which oath if taken in open court, shall be entered
in their order book, and if not, shall be endorsed on the warrant
issued to them to make such partition.

(5080) § 8. Two or more persons may if they choose have

their shares set off together.

(5081) § 9. In all proceedings under this act, guardians may
act for their wards, as their wards might have acted, being of age.
(5082)  10. In all cases where proceedings are now pending,

‘or may hereafter be commenced in any [court] of this Territory, for

the partition of real estate in which any minor is a party in interest,
the commissioners appointed to make such partition are hereby
authorized to lay off into lots or out-lots, streets and alleys, any
lands including in such partition, and to make a plat thereof.
which shall be reported to the court for approval or rejection. If
confirmed by the court such plat shall be acknowledged by such
commissioners in open court, and shall be recorded as other plats
of like nature are recorded, and shall have the validity in law as
if made by a legal proprietor of such lands, of full age. It shall
be the duty of the court to determine in such cases upon the return
of such plats by said commissioners, whether it will be for the interest of the parties that such land should be layed off into lots or
out-lots, streets, and alleys, and if so, then the partition may be
made by said commissioners, as in other cases, if practicable.
without detriment to the parties interested; and if the same shall
not be susceptible of partition, then said lots or out-lots, may be
sold by order of the court, as in other cases.

(5083) § 11. The commissioners shall make to the court and
acknowledge in open court their report, or shall sign and swear
to their report before some person authorized to administer oaths:
which report shall specify by divisions or lots, or metes and bounds.
or by plats, the shares assigned to each party.

(5084)  12. Such report if confirmed by the court shall be

spread upon the order book, and judgment of the partition be rendered accordingly.

(5085) § 13. The court before confirmation may set aside
such return for good cause shown and commit the duty of partition anew to the same or other commissioners, to be appointed
and qualified as aforesaid. whereupon the same proceedings shall
be had as are before directed.

(5086) § 14. When such commissioners shall report to the
court that the whole or a part of the lands of which partition is
demanded cannot be devided without damage to the owners, the
court in its discretion may order the whole or such part of the
premises to be sold at public or private sale on such terms and
conditions as it may prescribe, provided that at public sale such
land shall sell for at least two-thirds of its appraised value, and
at private sale at not less than its appraised value, to be ascertained as in cases of sales of land on execution. And if a part
only be sold the remainder may be partitioned subject to the rules
hereinbefore provided. '

(5087) § 15. If under such partial partition, duly confirmed,
the shares assigned be full shares the residue reserved for sale shall
be dischared from all title or claim of the parties so receiving assignm'ent of the shares.

(5088) § 16. Such sale shall be made by a commissioner to be
appointed by the court other than one of the commissioners to
make partition, and such commissioners shall file a bond payable
to the Territory of Oklahoma in such penalty as the court may
direct, conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties of his
trust.

(5089) § 17. Whenever it shall appear to the court that the
purchase-money for the land sold had been duly paid, the court
shall order such commissioner or some other person to execute
conveyances to the purchasers, which shakl bar all claims of such
owners to said lands as effectually as if they themselves had executed the same.

(5090)) § 18. Commissioners to make partition or to sell shall

not become purchasers of said land.

(5091) § 19. The money arising from such sale, after payment of just costs and expenses, shall be paid by such commissioners to the persons entitled thereto according to their respective shares, under the directions of the court.

(5092) § 20. Any two of the persons named as commissioners
to make partition may perform the duties required by this act; and

vacancies may be Filed by the court. _ _
(5093) § 21. The occurrence of a vacancy shall not invalidate

, the previous acts of the commissioners, and a successor shall take

up and continue the proceedings, which shall be valid as if the
Same had been done by the commissioners first appointed. _

(5094) § 22. Such court shall make allowance to the commissioners for their services, and for surveying, marking, chaining.
plating, and the execution of the necessary conveyances as to such
court shall seem reasonable.

(5095) § 23. All costs and necessary expesnses shall . be
awarded and enforced in favor of those entitled thereto, against

the partitioners, in such proportion against each as the court may
determine. '

(5096) § 24. Upon showing sufiicient cause, any person not
served with summons may, within one year after such partition is
confirmed, appear and open the proceedings, and obtain a review
thereof; and also any person ofunsound mind, or any infant whose
guardian did not attend and approve such partition, may, within
one year after the removal of his disability, have a review of such
partition.

ARTICLE 38.—PR1NcIPAL AND SURETY.

SECTION. SECTION.

I. Notice to creditor. 8. When judgment of surety without
2. Surety discharged, when. relief.

3. Trial of suretyship. 9. Provisions extend to heirs of sureties.
4. Order to exhaust principal’s property. 10. Rate of interest.

5. Judgment in force for surety. ll. Reeognizance, when a lien.

6. Remedy of co-sureties who pay. 12. Defective bond.

7. When surety shall not suffer judgment.

(5097) § 1. Any person bound as surety upon any contract in
writing for the payment of money or the performance of any act,
when the right of action has accrued, may require by notice in
writing, the creditor or obligee forthwith to institute an action upon the contract.

(5098) § 2. If the creditor or obligee shall not proceed within a
reasonable time to bring his action upon such contract, and prosecute the same to judgment and execution, the surety shall be
discharged from all liability thereon.

(5099 § 3. When an action is brought against two or more
defendants upon a contract,any one or more of the defendants being
surety for the others, {he surety may, upon a written complaint
to the court, cause the question of suretyship to be tried and
determined upon the issue made by the parties at trial of the
cause, or at any time before or after the trial, or at a subsequent
term; but such proceeding shall not effect the proceedings of the
plaintifff.

(5100) § 4. If the finding upon such issue be in favor of the

ssurety, the court shall make an order directing the sheriff to levy

the execution. first upon and exhaust the property of the princi-.
pal, before a levy shall be made upon the property of the surety,
and the clerk shall indorse a memorandum of the order on the
execution.

(SW0 .5 5. When any defendant surety in a judgment. or
special bail or replevin bail, or surety in a delivery bond, or replevin bond, or any person being surety in any undertaking whatever has been or shall be compelled to pay any judgment or any
part thereof, or make any payment which is applied upon such
judgment by reason of such suretyship, or when any sheriff or
other officer, or any surety upon his ofificial bond, shall be comPdled t0 pay any judgment, or any part thereof, by reason of any
default of such officer, except for failing to pay over any money
collected. or for wasting property levied on, the judgment shall

not be discharged by such payment, but shall remain in force for
the use of the bail, surety, officer, or other person making such
payment, and after the plaintifff is paid, so much of the judgment as remains unsatisfied may be prosecuted to execution for
his use.

(5102) § 6. Any one of the several judgment-defendants, and
any one of several replevin-bail, having paid and satisfied the
plaintifff, shall have the remedy provided in the last section against
the co-defendants or co-sureties, to collect of them the ratable

proportion each is equitably bound to pay.

(5103) § 7. No surety or his representatives shall confess
judgment, or suffer judgment by default in any case, when he is
notified that there is a valid defense, if the principal will enter
himself defendant to the action, and tender to the surety or his
representatives good security to idemnify him to be approved by
the court. ' ~

(5104) § 8. Whenever any person seeks‘a remedy against another for whom he has discharged a debt or claim upon contract,
in whole or in part, made payable without any relief from valuation
or appraisement laws, for which he was bound as surety or otherwise, the remedy of such person shall also be enforced without any
relief from such laws.

(5105) § 9. The foregoing provisions of this article shall extend to heirs, executors, and administrators of deceased persons;
but the provisions concerning sureties giving notice to the
creditors shall not operate against persons under legal disabilities.

(5106) § 10. In any case when a surety on any bill, note, bond
or other instrument in writing shall be compelled to pay the debt:
or obligation of the principal debtor, such surety shall recover
such rate of interest on the amount so paid by him for his principal
as was originally provided for in such bill, note, bond or other instrument in writing held against the principal debtor, and the judgment therein shall bear the same rate of interest not exeeeding ten

per cent per annum.
(5107) § 11. Every recognizance shall bind the real estate of

the principal from the time it was taken, but shall only bind the“
real estate of surety from the time judgment of forfeiture was rendered.

(5108) § 12. No ofiicial bond entered into_by any oliicer, or
any bond, recognizance, or written undertaking taken by any
officer in the discharge of the duties of his ofnce. shall be void
for want of form or substance or recital of condition, nor the principal or surety be discharged; but the principal and surety shall be
bound by such bond, recognizance, or written undertaking to the
full extent contemplated by the law requiring the same, and the
sureties to the amount specified in the bond or recognizance. ' In
all actions on a defective bond, recognizance, or written ‘undertaking, the plaintifff or relator may suggest the defect in his complaint, and recover to the same extent as if such bond, recognizance. or written undertaking were perfect in all respects.

bi

ARTICLE 39.--RECEIVERS.

SECTION. SECTION.

1. When ap ointed. 6. Money not to be loaned, exception.
2. Who sha 1 not be. 7. Powers of receiver.

3. Oath and bond. 8. Court may enforce payment. _

4. Deposit of money in court. 9. Notice of application, exception.
5. Failure to deposit, order of sheriff. to. Apppeal in ten days.

(5109)  1. A receiver may be appointed by the court, or the
judge thereof in vacation, in the following cases:

First. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase
of property, or by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his
claim.

Second. In actions between partners, or persons jointly interested in any property or fund.

Third. In all actions, when it is shown that the-property, fund,
or rents and profits in controversy is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured. .

Fourth. In actions by mortgagee for the foreclosure of a mortgage and the sale of the mortgaged property, when it appears that
such property is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially
injured; or when such property is not sufficient to discharge the
mortgaged debt,—to secure the application of the rents and profits
accruing before a salecan be made. And in cases where the
mortgage provides for a receiver.

Fifth. When a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent
or is in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights. ‘

Sixth. To protect or preserve, during the time allowed for redemption, any real estate or interest therein sold on execution or
order of sale, and to secure to the person entitled thereto the rents
and profits thereof.

Seventh. And in such other cases as may be provided by law;
or where in the discretion of the court, or the judge thereof in vacation, it may be necessary to secure ample justice to the party.

(5110) § 2. No party or attorney, or other person interested
in an action, shall be appointed receiver therein. _

(5111) § 3. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver
must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and with one or more
sureties, approved by the court, or the judge thereof in vacation,
execute a written undertaking, payable to such person as the
court, or the judge thereof in vacation, shall direct, to the effect
that he will faithfully discharge the duties of a receiver in the action and obey the orders of the court or the judge thereof.

(5112) § 4. Vi/hen it is admitted by the pleading or examination of a party that he has in his possession or under his control
any money or other thing capable of delivery, which, being the
subject of litigation, is held by him as trustee for another party,
or which belongs or is due to another party, the court, or the
judge thereof in vacation. may order the same to be deposited in
court, or with the clerk thereof in vacation, or deliver to such
party with or without security, subject to the further order of the
court or the judge thereof.

(5113) § 5. Whenever, in the, exercise of its authority. a
court, or the judge thereof in vacation, shall have ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other thing, and the order is disobeyed, the court or the judge, besides punishing the disobedience
as for contempt, may make an.order requiring the sheriff to take
the money or thing, and deposit it or deliver it in conformity with
the direction of the court or judge thereof.

(5114) § 6. Money deposited or paid into court, or with the
clerk thereof, in an action, shall not be loaned out, unless with the
consent of all the parties having an interest in or making claim
to the same. _

(5115) § 7. The receiver shall have power, under the control
of the court, or of the judge thereof in vacation, to bring and defend actions, to take and keep possession of the property, to receive
rents, collect debts in his own name, and generally to do such
acts respecting the property, as the court or the judge thereof may
authorize.

(5116) § 8. When the answer of the defendant admits part of
the plaintifff's claim to be just, the court, on motion, may order the
defendant to satisfy that part of the claim, and may enforce the
order by execution. ‘

(5117) § 9. Receivers shall not be appointed either in term
or vacation, in any case, until the adverse party shall have appeared, or shall have had reasonable notice of the application
for such appointment, except upon sufhcient cause shown by
affidavit. '

(5118) § 10. In all cases hereafter commenced or new pending in any of the courts of this Territory, in which a receiver
may be appointed or refused, the party aggrieved may, within
ten days thereafter, appeal fnom the decision of the court to
the Supreme Court, without awaiting the final determination of
such case, and in cases where a receiver shall be or has been
appointed upon the appellant filing an appeal bond with sufficient sureties, in such sum as may have been required of such
receiver, conditioned for the due prosecution of such appeal,
and the payment of all costs and damages that may accrue to
any officer or person by reason thereof, the authority of such
receiver shall be suspended until the final determination of such

appeal. 5

ARTICLE 40.—REPLEVIN.

SF,c1'xox_ SECTION. _ _

1_ \\/hen action |ies_ 8. Qrders to different counties.

2_ Amdavig for de1ive;-3,-_ 9. Fraudulent concealment, etc , fact
3. Order for delivery. ‘ l'e““'“°d4, Comcms of order, 10. bumrnons to show cause.

5. Order, how executed, receiver. 11. bervice, proceedings.

6. Breaking open buildings. 12. Issue. ‘_Vhe" ”_1°‘l7. Custody of property. 13- E’“3°““°" agamst bod)’(5119) § 1. When any personal goods are wrongfully taken or

unlawfully detained from the owner or person claiming the possession thereof, or when taken on execution or attachment, 01'

claimed by any person other than the defendant. the owner or
‘claimant may bring an action for the possession thereof. .

(5120) § 2. The plaintifff may at the time of issuing the summons or at any time before answer claim the immediate delivery
of such property as provided in this act. VVhen a delivery is
claimed an affidavit must be made by the plaintifff, or some one in
his behalf, showing:

First. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property, or that
he is then lawfully entitled to the possession thereof, and particularly describe it.

Second. That the same has not been taken for tax, assessment,
or fine, pursuant to a statute, or-seized under an execution or attachment against the property of the plaintifff, or if so seized that
it is by a statute exempt from such seizure.

Third. That the property has been wrongfully taken, or is unlawfully detained by the defendant, or is unlawfully detained.

Fourth. The estimated value of the property, and in what
county the same is believed to be detained.

(5121) § 3. When such affidavit is filed with the clerk he shall

'issue an order for the seizure of the property and delivery thereof
to the plaintifff.

(5122)  4:. The order shall be directed and delivered to the
sheriff. It shall state the name of the parties to the action and
the court in which action is brought and direct the sheriff to take
the property, describing it and deliver it to the plaintifff and direct
him to make return of his doings thereon.

. (5123) § 5. The sheriff shall forthwith proceed to execute
the order. by taking possession of the property described in the
affidavit, or so much as can be found; and the defendant, or
some person in his behalf. within twenty-four hours thereafter,
shall execute a written undertaking, payable to the plaintifff with
sufficient surety to be approved by the sheriff, to the effect that
the defendant shall safely keep the property, that the same shall
not be in any way injured or damaged, and that he will deliver
the same to the plaintifff if judgment shall be rendered to that effect, and also that he will pay to the plaintifff all such sums of
money as he may recover in the action, then the sheriff shall
deliver the property to the defendant. But if such undertaking
is not given within the time aforesaid, then the sheriff shall deliver the property to the plaintifff on receiving from him or some
person on his behalf within twenty-four hours thereafter
a written undertaking. payable to the defendant with sufficient
surety to be approved by the sheriff, to the effect that the plaintifff will prosecute his action with effect and that he will return the
property to the defendant, if return be adjudged by the court, and
that he will pay to the defendant all such sums of money as may
be recovered in the action for any cause whatever, and in default
of the undertaking being given, the property shall be returned to
the defendant, but the action shall not be dismissed or delayed
thereby. And if the property claimed by the plaintifff shall have
a peculiar value, that cannot be compensated by damages, either
party, in term time or vacation, may by affidavit upon notice to

the other, move the judge of the court in which said cause is-pending to appoint a receiver to take possession of the property, and
keep the same until determination of the litigation in the cause,
or until the further order of the court. 5 And the judge upon such
application shall make such order in the premises as will protect
the rights of the parties.

(5124) § 6. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed
in a building or enclosure, the sheriff shall demand its delivery, and if
it shall not be delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure
to be broken open, and‘ take the property into his possession,
and if necessary, he may call to his aid the power of the county.
If the sheriff cannot find the property, or any part thereof, the
action shall not abate, but be prosecuted to final judgment.

(5125) § 7. The sheriff shall safely keep the property during
the time prescribed by the statute, and shall be allowed by the
court the necessary expenses for doing so, to be paid by the
plaintifff and taxed in the costs, if the property is recovered by
the plaintifff. When it appears by the afhdavit of .the plaintifff,
or any person on his behalf, or by the return of the officer, that
the property claimed has been disposed of or concealed so that
the order cannot be executed, the court may compel the attendance of the defendant, examine him on oath as to the situation of
the property, and punish a willful obstruction, or hinderance of the
execution of the order and a disobedience of the orders of the
court in this respect, as in cases of a contempt.

(5126) § 8. When the property is removed to another county’
after the commencement of the action, an order may at any time
before judgment, be directed to such county for the seizure and
delivery of the property claimed; and several orders to different
counties may issue at the same time. at the option of the plaintifff,
and the costs shall be taxed as the court shall direct. Such order
to another county shall be served, and the property be delivered
to the plaintifff, and the order returnable in the manner and upon
the same terms as above provided.

(5127) § 9. In all actions for the recovery of the possession
of personal property upon affidavit filed as provided in this act, if:
the defendant shall fraudulently conceal, remove, transfer, with-‘
hold, or refuse to deliver the property mentioned in the afTidavit
of the plaintifff or his agent, with a view to defraud the plaintifff,
the sheriff, or officer charged with the execution of the order to
take such property into his possession, shall indorse the fact of
such concealment, removal, transfer, withholding, or refusal by
said defendant upon said order, and make return thereof to ‘the
court whence it issues. _ _

(5128) § 10. Upon the filing of such return, on application ofs
the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, the clerk or court who
issues such order shall issue a summons requiring said defendant to appear before the court at the time set for the trial of
said cause, to show why an execution against his body should not

issue.

' (5129) § 11. Such summons shall be_served and returned in c.

appear, the trial of the issues shall proceed in his absence, according to the rule of practice in other cases.

(5130) § 12. The issue to be tried shall be the truth of the
facts alleged in the plaintifff’s affidavit and the officer's return endorsed on the order, which issue shall be tried at the time of the
trial of the original suit.

(5131) § 13. If such trial be determined against such defendant, and he will not forthwith surrender for the benefit of the
plaintifff the property mentioned in such affidavit found to have
been concealed, removed, transferred, or withheld by him, or pay
the value thereof into the court, an execution shall issue forthwith
against his body, and he be arrested and committed to the prison

of the county. there to be confined until duly discharged according to law.

ARTICLE 4I.——GENERAL PRo_v1s1oNs.

S1-;c'r1oN. _ _ SECTION.

1. Publication, how made, 8. Number, gender.

2. Time, how computed. . 9. Pending suits.

3. Suerety, examination of. 10. Liberal construction.

4. Money substituted for bail. 11. Act not retroactive.

5. Defective appeal bonds, new bonds 12. Existing rights of action how prose6. Costs accrued, additional bond. cuted.

7. Certain words, how construed.

(5132) § 1. Publications of legal and other oFF1cial matters
printed in the English language shall be lawful if published in
any newspaper of general circulation published in the county.

(5133) § 2. The time within which an act is to be done, as
herein provided, shall be computed by excluding the first day and
including the last. If the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.

(5134) § 3. Every court and officer authorized to take any
bail or surety shall have power to examine on oath, the person
offering to become such bail or surety, concerning his property
and sufficiency as bail or surety.

(5135) § 4. Any person required to give bail may deposit
with the clerk the amount of money for which he is required
to give bail and thereupon be discharged from arrest.

(5136) § 5, In all cases where an appeal shall be taken from a

'justice of the peace, board of county commissioners, viewers, or

commissioners to assess damages, or from any other person or
tribunal, to the district court, and the appeal boncf filed in such
case shall be defective in substance or form, or for want of proper
approval, such case shall not be dismissed on account of such defeet or informality, if the appellant will when required by the court
to which such appeal is taken, file in such court a sufficient bond,
with surety to the acceptance of such court, in such sum as such
court shall require.

(5137) § 6. In all such appeal cases, when costs shall have

‘accrued so as to render the sum named in the appeal-bond insufficient to secure the same, the court in which such appeal is pending shall require the appellant to give an additional bond in such

sum as the court shall deem sufiicient, with surety to the acceptance of such court; and if the appellant »fail or refuse, so to do,
such appeal shall be dismissed.

(5138) § 7. In the construction of this act, the following rules
shall be observed, when consistent with the context:

The word “sheriff” means the sheriff of the county or any other
person authorized to perform his duties in any case.

The word “clerk” means the clerk of the court, or any person
authorized to perform his duties in any case. '

The phrase “of unsound mind” includes idiots, non-competents,
lunatics and distracted persons.

The word “oath” includes the word “affirmation,” and the phrase
"to swear” includes to affirm.

The word “person” extends to bodies politic and corporate.

The phrase “under legal disabilities” includes persons within
the age of twenty-one years, or of unsound mind, or imprisoned
in the state prison, or out of the United States.

The word “bond" as used in this act, does not necessarily imply
a seal; but in other respects means the same kind of instruments
as heretofore.

The word “land” and the phrases “real estate” and “real property” include lands, tenents and hereditaments.

The phrase “personal property” includes goods, chattels, evidences of debt and things in action.

The word “property” includes personal and real property.

The word “judgment” means all final orders, decrees and terminations in an action; also, all orders upon which executions may
issue. ’

The phrase “money demands on contract,” when used in reference to an action, means an action arising out of contract when
the relief demanded is a recovery of money.

The word “attorney” includes a counsellor and every other person
authorized to appear and represent a party in an action or special
proceeding, in any stage thereof.

The word “verified” when applied to pleadings, means supported by oath or affirmation in writing.

(5139) § 8. ,Words implying the singular number, only, mayg
be also applied to the plural of persons and things, and words.implying the masculine gender only, may be extended to females

also.

(5140) § 9. In actions already commenced, the pleadings to
be had, the manner of procuring_testimony, the examination of
parties, the trial and rendition of judgment, and all other proceedings, shall conform to the provisions of this act, as far as practicable. '

(5141) § 10. The provisions of this act shall be liberally construed, and shall not be limited by any rules of strict COI1StI'1.lC's
tion. _

(5142) § 11. No part of this act Shall be retroactive. unless

expressly so declared, '

(5143) § 12. All rights of action secured by existinglaws may

ibe prosecuted in the manner provided in this act.
0 .

ARTICLE 42.—OCcUPv1No CLAIMANTS.

AN ACT Defining Occupying Claimants and Providing Protection for their Rights.

[Took effect December 25. 1890.]

SECTION. SECTION.

I. Ejectment of qualified occupying 7. Tenants in common, partition.
claimant. 8. Tax sales, validity.

2. Conditions precedent to disposses— 9. Occupying and acts leading to ownersion. ship.

3. Action for recovery of improvements’ lo. Claimant put in ossession.
value. * H. Cause, when doc eted.

4. Petition, or counterclaim, contents. I2. Improvements precedent and subse5. Summons, joinder of issues, valuation, quent.
costs. I3. Rental aset-off against improvements.

6. Conditions of taking property.

Be it enacted by t/ze Legz'slatz'zre Assembly of I/ze Territory of Of!la/zoma:

(5144) § 1. When a person qualified under the laws of the United States to make legal settlement upon public lands in Oklahoma
has in good faith settleo upon land or town lots, while the same
was a part of the public domain of the United States, and made
valuable improvements thereon, under such circumstances as to
give him good reason to believe, and in addition thereto if he did
believe, that he had a right to improve the land or lots so settled
upon, and in any contest before the land departments to which
the occupant, or any of his assignors, were parties by themselves or by trustees or agents acting for the settlers on the
land in dispute, or if in an action in court to remove the settler
from the land or lots, he is found not to be entitled to the same he
shall not be removed therefrom until his rights as occupying
claimant are adjusted and his improvements paid for as in this act
provided.

(5145) § 2. When an occupant of land or lots other than public domain has color of title thereto, and has in good faith made
any valuable improvements thereon and is afterwards in any
action found not to be the rightful owner thereof, he shall not be
deprived of the possession of the property until the provisions of
this act have been complied with.

. (5146) § 3. Any person occupying land or lots as provided in
section one or two, shall be allowed sixty days after the final determination that he is not entitled to the possession of the same,
in which to file his petition for the recovery of the value of the
improvements by him so made_ upon the land or lots, which petition must be filed ‘in the office of the clerk of the district court
of the county in which the land or lots is located, and during
said sixty days no execution shall issue for his removal therefrom, or the occupying claimant may file his petition as a counterclaim in any action at law brought against him to recover the
land or lots, but such counterclaim shall not be tried until there

is a finding that the occupying claimant is not entitled to the
land or lots in controversy. , l .

(5147) § 4. Such petition or counterclaim must set forth the
ground on which the occupying claimant seeks relief, stating the
judgment or finding of the land officers of the United States
against him, or judgment of the proper court and stating as accurately as possible the circumstances under which he improved
the land or lots and the value of the improvements upon the land
or lots as well as the value of the same apart from the improve(5148) § 5. Summons shall issue and be served, and issues
thereon shall be joined and the cause be tried as in ordinary

actions, and if the value of the land or lots or improvements is in
controversy, the separate value of each must be ascertained and
fixed by the verdict of the jury and judgment of the court, and the
costs in such cases may be apportioned in such manner as the
courts may deem just and proper.

(5149) § 6. The claimant to the land or lots may thereupon‘
pay into court the value of the improvements as fixed by the
judgment and take the property; should he fail to do this after a
reasonable time, to be fixed by the court, the plaintifff maytake
the property upon paying the value of the land or lots aside from
the improvements. '

(5150) § 7. If this be not done in a reasonable time, to be‘
fixed by the court, the parties will be held to be tenants in common
of the land or lots including the improvements, each holding an
interest proportionate to the value of his property as ascertained
by the judgment, and may maintain action for partition as between themselves.

(5151) § 8. The purchaser in good faith at any judicial or tax
sale made by the proper officer, has color of title within the
meaning of this act, whether such person or oliicer has sufficient
authority to sell or not, unless such want of authority was known
to such person at the time of the sale. The rights of such purchaser shall pass to his assignee or representatives in. all cases.

(5152) § 9. Any person has also such color of title who has p:
occupied the tract of land or lots by himself, or by those under
whom he claims, for the term of live years, if he or those under
whom he claims have at any time during such occupancy with
the knowledge or consent expressed or implied of the real owner
made any valuable improvements thereon, or if he or those ‘under
whom he claims have at any time during such occupancy paid the
ordinary taxes assessed by the county for any one year, and two
years thereafter have elapsed without the payment or proffer of
repayment of the same by the owner of the land or lots, and such
occupancy is continued up to the time suit 1s.bro.uglit_ in which
the recovery of the same is obtained; but nothing in this act shall
be construed to give tenants color of title against their landlords.

(5153) § 10. If the value of the improvements, as found by
the judgment, be paid by the claimant of the land or lots, he shall?‘
be entitled to an order and execution for the 13055635103 Of ll“?
same.

(5154) § 11. If the occupying claimant pay the value of the
land or lots as fixed by the judgmemt, the cause shall be docketed
and proceeded with at the next term of court, without further notice, and a decree entered quieting the title to the land or lots in
the occupying claimant, his heirs or assigns. .

(5155) § 12. The occupying claimant shall not recover for
the improvements made upon the land or lots after the same
has been awarded to the adverse party, but he may recover for
all improvements made in good faith before such adjudication is
had.

(5156)  13. The claimant of the land or _lots shall be entitled to the rental value of the same in the condition it was
before any improvements of the occupying claimant were placed thereon, which rental value may be set off against the value
of the improvements at the time of the trial, and the judgment shall be for the value of the improvements less the rental
value so found. ‘

ARTICLE 43.—T1ME IN WHICH ACTIONS MAY BE BRoUo11'1‘.

AN ACT to Prescribe the Time in which Civil Actions May be Brought.

[Took effect December 25, 1890.]

SECTION, SECTION.

1. Five year’s limitation. 10. Failure to prosecute, second suit.

2. Time of commencing civil action. 11. Circulating mediums exempt.

3. Fraud, mistake, trespass. 12. Cause of action revived by written
4. Current account. admission of debt.

5. Delivery of summons. 13. Counter claim not barred, a defense.
0. Period of limitation and non-residents. 14. Statute of limitation, when inopera7. Action barred by previous residence. tive.

8. Limitation extended for insane and 15, Same, when first in effect.

minors. 16. School fund exempt.
9. Death of party entitled to action.

Be it enacted by t/ze Legz':latz've Assembly of t/ze Terrz'tor_y of Okla/zoma:

(5157) § 1. No action shall be brought within this Territory
to revive any judgment rendered in any court in this Territory
unless commenced within five years after the same was originally
rendered, and then such judgment may be revived and have such
force and effect as when rendered.

(5158) § 2. The following actions may be brought within the
time herein limited respectively after their causes accrue and not
afterwards, except when otherwise specially declared: Actions
founded on injuries to the person or reputation, whether based on
contract or tort, or for a statute penalty, or on judgments of foreign courts within two years. Action to enforce a mechanic's
lien within one year from the filing of the statement for such
lien. Those against a sheriff or other public officer, growing
out of a liability incurred by the doing of an act in an official
capacity, or by the omission of an ofiicial duty, including the
“°n'PaYm‘-‘nt Of m0n€Y collected on execution within three
years. If founded on any unwritten contract, those brought

for injuries to property or for relief on the ground of fraud,
and in aid of other actions not otherwise provided for in this
act, within three years. Those founded on written contracts,
and those brought for the recovery of real property within five
years. Those founded on a judgment of a court of the United
States within twenty years. ‘

(5159) § 3. In actions for relief on the ground of fraud or
mistake, and in actions for trespass to property, the cause of action shall not be deemed to have accrued until the fraud, mistake
or trespass complained of shall have been discovered by the party
aggrieved. ' '’

(5160) § 4:. When there is a continuous open current account,
the cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued on the date
of the last item of debit or credit entered therein as proved on
the trial.

(5161) § 5. The delivery of the summons to the sheriff or
other officer of the proper county, with intent that it shall be’
served immediately, which intent shall be presumed unless the
contrary appear, or the actual service of the summons by another
person, or the filing of the petition in court, is a commencement

of the action.
(4162) § 6. The time which the defendant is a non-resident of

the Territory shall not be included in computing any of the

periods of limitation above prescribed. .

(5163) § 7. When a cause of action has been fully barred by
the laws of any country or state where the defendant has pre-3
viously resided, such bar shall be a full and complete defense, but

-this section shall not apply to causes of action arising within this

Territory.
(5164) § 8. The time limited for actions herein shall, in favor

of minors as defined by this act, or insane persons, be extendedfl
so that they shall have one year after the termination of such disability within which to commence their action.

(5165) § 9. If the person entitled to bring any action [die]
within one year prior to the expiration of the limitation above;
provided, the limitation shall not apply until one year after such

death. .
(5166) § 10. If after the commencement of an action, the

plaintifff fail therein for any cause except negligence in its prosecu-5
tion, and a new suit be brought within six months thereafter, the

second suit shall, for the purpose herein comtemplated, be deemed

a continuation of the first. . _
(5167) § 11. The above limitations and provisions shall not

apply to evidences of debt intended to circulate as money, but
shall, in other respects, be applicable to all actions broughthby or
against all bodies corporate or politic, except when otherwise expressly declared.

I!

(5168) § 12. Causes of action founded on contract, are re-ti

vived by an admission that the debt is unpaid, as well as by a new

promise to pay the same, but such admission or new promise must

be in writing and signed by the party to be charged thereby.
(5169) § 13. A proper counterclaim may be pleaded as a deCHAPTER LXXI.—PROCEDURE—-CIVIL, BEFORE JUSTICE.

[Took effect December 25, 1890.]

ARTICLE. AETICLE.
I. {Jurisdiction of justices’ courts. 1!. Executions.
2. lace of trial. 12. Contempts. .
3. Manner of commencing actions. I 3. Dockets of justices.
4. Pleadings. I4. Appeals.
5. Attachments. 15. Collection of compensation for per6. Claim and delivery. sonal services.
7. judgment by default. 16. F orcible entry and detention of prop8. Time of tria and postponements. erty.
9. Trials. 17. General provisions.
to. Judgments other than by default. 18. justices’ quarterl re art to count
board Y P Y

ARTICLE I.-—THE JURISDICTION or JUsTIcI~:’s COUR_'I‘S.

SECTION. I SECTION.
I I. Justices’ office kept where. Criminal jurisdiction.
2. Civiljurisdiction of justices classified. I

(5173) § 1. Justices of the peace must keep their offices and
hold their courts at some place selected by them, in their respective townships and counties, in and for which they may be elected
and these courts are always open for the transaction of business.

(5174) § 2. The civil jurisdiction of these courts, within their
respective counties, extends:

First. To an action arising on contract, for the recovery of

money only, where the -sum claimed does not exceed one hundred
dollars.

Second. To an action for damages for injury to the person or
for taking or detainingpersonal property, or for injuring personal
property, or for an injury to _ real property, where the title or
boundary of such of such real property does not in anywise come
in question, and where the damages claimed do not exceed one
hundred dollars.

Third. To an action for a fine, penalty or forfeiture. not exceeding one hundred dollars; given by statute or the ordinance of
an incorporated city or town.

Fourth. To an action upon a bond or undertaking conditioned
for the payment of money, not exceeding one hundred dollars,
though the penalty exceed that sum the judgment to be given for
the sum actually due. When the payments are to be made by
installments, an action may be brought for each installment as it
becomes due.

Fifth. To an action to recover the possession of personal property when the value of such property does not exceed one hundred

dollars. _
Sixth. To take and enter judgment on the confession of a defendant when the amount confessed does not exceed one hundred

dollars.

Seventh. To actions for forcible entry and detainer, or detainer
only of real property, where the title or boundary thereof in nowise comes in question. '

(5175) § 3. These courts shall have criminal jurisdiction to
try and determine all cases of misdemeanor committed within
their respective counties not indictable where the punishment is a
fine not exceeding one hundred dollars, or imprisonment in the
county jail for a period not exceeding thirty days, or both such
Fine and imprisonment. And as to all public offenses which are
indictable, they have the power of committing magistrate.

ARTICLE 2.—PLACE OF TRIAL.

SECTION. SECTION.
1. Actions commenced and tried, where. 4. Proceedings on change of place.
2. Causes for change of place of trial. 5. Tlurisdiction of new court.
3. But one change, when; where case 6. itle tolands cannot be tried byjustice .

shall be sent.

(5176) § 1. Actions in justices‘ courts must be commenced,
and subject to the right to change the place of trial as hereinafter
provided, must be tried in the county where the defendant resides,
or in which he may be summoned.‘

(5177) § 2. The court may at any time before the trial, on
motion, change the place of trial in the following cases:

First. Where it appears to the satisfaction of the justice before
whom the action is pending, by affidavit of either party, that such
justice is a material witness for either party.

Second. Where either party makes and files an affidavit, that
he believes he cannot have a fair and impartial trial. before such
justice, by reason of the interest, prejudice or bias of the justice.

Third. When from any cause the justice is disqualified from
acting.

Fourth. When the justice is sick or unable to act.

(5178) § 3. When the court orders the place of trial to be

:changed, the action must be transferred to a justice’s court the

parties may agree upon; if they do not so agree, then the party not
applying for the change, may file his afhdavit alleging against any
one justice to whom it is proposed to transfer the cause, the existance of any of the grounds for the change named in section 5177.
and the cause shall not then be transferred to that justice, but
shall be sent to the next nearest justice in the same county. If
after such changes are granted, it be made to appear to the justice
that any justice other than the ones before objected to, is related
to either of the parties by consanguinity or aH-inity within the
fourth degree, or is a witness, or has been employed as an attorney
in the action the cause shall be transferred to the next nearest
justice in the county, against whom none of the last named objections do exist. Thereafter no changesof place of trial shall be
allowed in the cause. Such change shall not be allowed before

the time set for hearing the cause unless the parties sooner
appean

(5179) § 4:. After an order has been made transferring the
action for trial to another court the following proceedings must be
had:

First. The justice ordering the transfer must immediately
transmit to the justice of the court to which it is transferred, on
payment by the party applying of one dollar for the transcript. all
the papers in the action, together with a certified transcript from
his docket of the proceedings therein.

Second. Upon the receipt by him of such papers, the justice of
the court to which the case is transferred, must proceed with the
trial, and no notice of the time .of trial need be given, but the
justice if unable to proceed with the trial, may set a day for its
hearing. and if the parties be not then present, shall issue notice
at least one day before the time fixed for the trial, and the manner of service shall be the same as in cases of service of a summons. (5180) § 5. From the time the order changing the place of
trial is made, the court to which the action is thereby transferred, ‘
has the same jurisdiction over it as though it had been commenced
in such court.

(5181) § 6. The parties to an action in a justice’s court can-C
not introduce evidence upon any matter wherein the title to, orb
boundary of, real property in anywise comes in question; and if it
appear from the answer of the defendant, verified by his oath, that
the determination of the action will necessarily involve the question of title to, or boundary of, real property, in anywise, the
justice must suspend all further proceedings in the action, and
certify the pleadings, and if any of the pleadings are oral, a transcript of the same from his docket, to the clerk of the district court
of the county or subdivision, on the payment by the plaintifff of one
dollar for such transcript, and all costs accrued before such justice;
and from the time of filing such pleadings or transcript with the
clerk, the district court has over the action the same jurisdiction

as if it had been commenced therein.

AR'I‘IC1.E 3.——-MANN}-ZR OF COMMENCING ACTIONS.

s;;c»noN_ SECTION.‘ ‘ _ _ _
1. Action commenced, how. 6. Service of bummons, limitation of
2. Parties in person or by attorney. time. _
3_ Infants’ appeamnce_ 7. Who may serve summons, by publi4. Summons must state what. Cation5. Time for defendant’s appearance. 8. One hour for appearance.

(5182) § 1. An action in a justice’s court is commenced bym‘
issuing the summons, or by the voluntary appearance and pleading of the parties. _

(5183) § 2. Parties in justices’ courts may appear and act in
person or by attorney; and any person, except by whom the sum— 3:
mons or jury process was served, may act as attorney.

(5184) § 3. When an infant is a party, he must appear either p;

by his general guardian, if he have one, or by a guardian appointled by the justice,as follows:

First. If the infant be plaintifff the appointment must be made
before the summons is issued, upon the application of the infant,
if he be of the age of fourteen years; if under that age, upon the
application of a relative or friend.

Second. If the infant be defendant, the guardian must be ap‘pointed at the time the summons is returned, or before the answer. It is the right of the infant to nominate his own guardian,
if the infant be over fourteen years of age, otherwise the justice
must make the appointment.

(5185) § 4. The summons must be directed to the defendant

and signed by the justice, or the plaintifff, or his attorney, and

must contain:

First. The title of the court, name of the county or township
in which the action is commenced, and the names of the parties
thereto.

Second. A sufficient statement of the cause of action, in general terms to appraise the defendant of the nature of the claim
against him.

Third. A direction that the defendant appear and answer before the justice at his office. at a time specified in the summons.

Fourth. In an action arising on a contract, for the recovery of
money or damages only, a notice that unless the defendant so
appears and answers, the plaintifff will take judgment for the sum
claimed by him, stating it.

Fifth. In other actions, a notice that unless the defendant so
appears and answers, the plaintifff will apply to the court for the
relief demanded. If the plaintifff has appeared by attorney, the
name of the attorney must be indorsed on the summons.

(5186) § 5. The time specified in the summons for the appearance of the defendant, shall in all cases be not less than three
nor more than twelve days from the date of the service of the
same.

(5187) § 6. The summons cannot be served out of the county
of the justice before whom the action is brought, except where the
action is brought upon a joint contract or obligation of two or
more persons who reside in different counties. and the summons
has been served upon the defendant resident of the county, or
found therein, in which case the summons may be served upon
the other defendants out of the county, When the defendant resides in the county, or is summoned therein, the summons cannot
be served within two days of the time fixed for the appearance
of the defendant; when he resides out of the county, and the summons is served out of the county, the summons cannot be served
within seven days of such time.

(5188) § 7. The summons may be served by a sheriff, constable or any other person not a party to the action and must be
served and returned in the same manner as summons in the district court, or in actions of attachment, it may be served by publication as provided by the civil procedure, and so far as.they
relate to the publication of summons, they are made applicable to

justices’ court, the word “justice,” being substituted for the word,

“judge,” whenever the latter word occurs: Provz'a’ea’, That when
a summons is to be served out of the county in which it was issued
the summons shall have attached to it a certificate under seal by
the clerk of the district court to the effect that the person issuing
the same was an acting justice of the peace at the date of the
summons: Provided, /zowez/er, That whenever any summons or
other process shall be served by any person other than a sheriff or
other duly elected and qualified officer, no fees shall be allowed
therefore, either for mileage in travelling or making such service, or
for serving said summons or process.

(5189) § 8. The parties are entitled to one hour in which to

appear after the time fixed in the summons but are not 'bound to‘
remain longer than that time unless both parties have appeared,

and the justice, being present, is engaged in the trial of another
cause.

ARTICLE 4.--—PLEADINGS.

SECTION. SECTION.
1 Manner of leading in justice’s court. 6. Demurrer to the answer.
2. Order of p eading. 7. Proceedings on demurrer.
3. Complaint is what. 8. Amendments to pleadin .
4. Demurrer, when. 9. Pleading to the amende pleading.

5. Answer, contain what.

(5190) § 1. Pleadings in justices’ court:

First. Are not required to be in any particular form, but mustl
be such as to enable a person of common understanding to know
what is intended.

Second. May be oral or in writing.

Third. Must be verified. '

Fourth. If in writing must be filed with the justice.

Fifth. If oral an entry of their substance must be made in the
docket and sworn to before the summons is issued.

(5191) § 2. The pleadings are:

First. The complaint by plaintifff.

Second. A motion or demurrer to the complaint.

Third. The’ answer by the defendant.

Fourth. A motion or demurrer to the answer.

Fifth. Reply to the answer.

(5192) § 3. The complaint in justices’ courts is a concise statement of the facts constituting the plaintifff's cause of action.‘ .

(5193) § 4. The defendant may, at any time before answering, W,
demur to the complaint.

(5194) § 5. 'l'he answer may contain a denial of any or all of ml
the material facts stated in the complaint, which the defendant believes to be untrue; and also a statement,in a plain and direct manner, of any other facts constituting a defense or counterclaim, upon which an action might be brought by the defendant against the
plaintifff in a justice’s court. _ _

(5195) § 6. When the answer contains new matter in avo1d- th
ance, or constituting a defense or a counterclaim, the plaintifff

“.

may, at any time before the trial, demur to the same for insuffic'iency, stating therein the grounds of such demurrer.

(5196) § 7. The proceedings on demurrer are as follows:

First. If the demurrer to the complaint is sustained, the plaintifff may, within such time, not exceeding two days, as the court
allows, amend his complaint.

Second. If the demurrer to a complaint is overruled, the defendant may answer forthwith.

Third. If the demurrer to an answer be sustained, the defendant may amend his answer within such time, not exceeding two
days, as the court may allow. '

Fourth. If the demurrer to an answer is overruled, the plaintifff may, if the answer contain new matter, reply forthwith. If the
answer does not contain new matter, the action must proceed as
if no demurrer had been interposed.

(5197) § 8. Either party may, at any time before the conclusion of the trial, amend any pleading; but if the amendment is made
after the issue, and it appears to the satisfaction of the court by
oath, that an adjournment is necessary to the adverse party, in
consequence of such amendment, an adjournment must be granted.
The court may also, in its discretion, when an adjourment will,
by the amendment, be rendered necessary, require, as a condition to the allowance of such amendment, made after issues
joined, the payment of such costs to the adverse party as he may
be put to by reason of such adjournment. The court may also,
on such terms as may be just, and on payment of costs, relieve a
party from a judgment by default, taken against him by his mistake, inadvertance, surprise, or excusable neglect; but the application for such relief must be made within ten days after the entry
pf the judgment, and upon an affidavitshowing good cause thereor. ,

(5198) § 9. VVhen pleading is amended, the adverse party
may answer or demur to it within such time, not exceeding two
days as the court may allow.

‘I

ARTICLE 5.-——A'l‘TACHMENTS.

Sacrrox. I 5EC~,~,oN_

1. When writ of attachment I may issue. 3. Requisites of the writ.
2. Undertaking by the plaintifff. 4. Service and return of the writ.

(5199) § 1. In the cases mentioned in the law relating to at'tachments in civil procedure, a writ to attach the personal property of the defendant must be issued by the justice at the time of,
or after issuing the summons and before answer, on receiving an
affidavit, by or on behalf of the plaintifff, stating the same facts as
are required to be stated by the affidavit specified in the article
on attachments in civil procedure.

(5200) § 2. Before issuing the writ, the justice must require a
written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with two or more
sufficient sureties in a sum not less than fifty nor more than three
hundred dollars, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff will pay all costs that may be awarded to

the defendant, and all damages which may sustain by reason
of the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking.

(5201) § 3. The writ may be directed to the sheriff or any
constable of the county, and must require him to attach and safely
keep all the personal property of the defendant within his county,
not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's demand, the amount of which must be
stated in conformity with the complaint, unless the defendant give
him security, by the undertaking of two sufficient sureties, in an
amount sufficient to satisfy such demand besides costs; in which
case, to take such undertaking.

(5202) § 4. The writ may be served by the sheriff or any constable of the county in which it is issued, and returned in the
same manner as warrants of attachment are served and returned
in actions in the district court, and with the same force and effect.

ARTICLE 6.——CLAIM AND DELIVERY or PERSONAL PROPERTY.

Sacnon.
1. Action for claim and delivery.

(5203) § 1. In an action to recover possession of {personal
property, the plaintifff may, at the time of issuing summons, or at
any time thereafter before answer, claim the delivery of such
property to him, and the provisions in relation to the recovery of
of the possession of personal property in civil procedure is applicable to such claim when made in justices’ courts, the powers
therein given and the duties imposed on sheriffs being extended
to constables'and the word “justice" substituted for “judge.”

ARTICLE 7.-—_]UI)(}MEN’l‘ BY Di:i'AU1,'r.

SECTION. SECTION.
1. Proceedings upon default. 2 Default presumed, when.

(5204) § 1. When the defendant fails to appear and answer
or demur, at the time specified in the summons, or within one
hour thereafter, then upon proof of service of the summons, the
following proceedings must be had:

First. If the action is based upon a contract and is for the
recovery of money or damages only, the court must render
judgment in favor of plaintifff for the sum specified in the summons.

Second. In all other actions the court must hear the evidence
offered by the plaintifff, and must render judgment in his favor for
such a sum, not exceeding the amount stated in the summons, as
appears by such evidence to be just.

(5205) § 2. In the following cases the same proceedings must:
be had, and judgment must be rendered in like manner, as if the
defendant had failed to appear and answer or demur:

1

First. If the complaint has been amended, and the defendant
fails to answer it as amended within the time allowed by the
court.

Second. If the demurrer to the complaint is overruled, and the
defendant fails to answer at once.

Third. If the demurrer to the answer is sustained and the
defendant fails to amend the answer within the time allowed by the
court.

ARTICLE 8.—T1.\1r; 01%‘ TRIAL AND POSTPONEMENTS.

SECTION. SECTION. I. When trial shall commence. 5. No adjournment for more than ten
2. Court may postpone trial. days,

3. Postponement by consent._
4. Postponement on application of

party.

(52o6)§ 1. Unless postponed as provided in this article, or
unless transferred to another court, the trial of the action must
commence at the expiration of one hour from the time specified
in the summons for the appearance of defendant, and the trial
must be continued without adjournment for more than twentytour hours at any one time, until all issues therein are disposed
of.

(5207) § 2. The court may, of its own motion, postpone the
trial:

First. For not exceeding one day, if, at the time specified in
the summons, or by an order of the court for the trial, the court
is engaged in the trial of another action.

Second. For not exceeding two days, if, by an amendment of
the pleadings, or the allowance of time to make such amendment,
or to plead. a postponement is rendered necessary.

Third. For not exceeding three days, if the trial is upon issues
of fact, and a'jury has been demanded.

(5208) § 3. The court may by consent of the parties, given in
writing or in open court, postpone the trial to a time agreed upon
by the parties.

(5209) § 4. The trial may be postponed upon the application

‘of either party, for a period not exceeding sixty days:

First. The party making the application must prove, by his
own oath or otherwise, that he cannot, for want of material testimony, which he expects to procure, safely proceed to trial, and
must show in what respect the testimony expected is material.
and that he has used due diligence to procure it, and has been unable to do so.

Second. The party making the application must, if required by
the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of
such adverse party, who is in attendance, may be then taken by
deposition before the justice, and that the testimony so taken
may be read on the trial, with the same effect, and subject to
the same objections as if the witness was produced; but the
court may require the party making the application to state,

upon affidavit, the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if_
the adverse party thereupon admits that such evidence would

-be given,'and that it be considered as actually given on the

trial, or offered and overruled as improper, the trial must not
be postponed. _

Third. If the trial be postponed the depositions of witnesses
residing out of the county or Territory may be taken either upon
commission issued by the justice, or upon notice to take depositions in the same manner as is provided by civil procedure; and
such depositions shall, when completed, be directed to the justice,
and be published by the justice in the same manner as depositions
are published by the clerk of the district court.

(5210) § 5. No adjournment must, unless by consent, be
granted for a period longer than ten days, upon the application of 3
either party, except upon condition that such party file an undertaking in an amount fixed by the justice, with two sureties, to be
approved by the justice, to the effect that they will pay to the
opposite party the amount of any judgment which may be recov-ered against the party applying, not exceeding the sum specified
in the undertaking.

ARTICLE 9. —TRIALS.

Section. SECTION.

1. Issues classified. 8. Jury. how drawn.

2. Issues of law; 9. Challenges and talesmen.

3. Issuesof fact. 10. Jury less_than twelve.

4. Issues of law tried by the court. 11. Oath of ‘jury. _ _

5. Issues of fact tried by the jury. 12. Production and iiispection of papers.
6 Jur may be waived. 13. Genuineness admitted if not denied.
7 allure of one party to appear.

(5211) § 1. Issues arise upon the pleadings when a fact or
conclusion of law is maintained by the one party and is controverted by the other. They are two kinds:

First. Of law; and,

Second. Of fact. .
(5212) § 2. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the

complaint or answer, or to some part thereof.
(5213) § 3. An issue of fact arises.‘ .
First. Upon a material allegation in the complaint,controverted by the answer; and, _
Second. Upon new matter in the answer, except an issue of

law is joined thereon. .

(5214) § 4. An issue of law must be tried by the ‘court.

(5215) § 5. An issue of fact must be tried by a jury, unless a
jury is waived, in which case it must be tried by the court.

(5216) § 6. A jury may be waived: .

First. By consent of parties, entered in the docket. _

Second. By a failure of either party to demand a jury before
the commencement of the trial of an issue of fact. .

Third. By the failure of either party to appear at the time

fixed for the trial of an issue of fact. . _
(5217) § 7, If either party fails to appear at the time FIXCCI

for trial, the trial may proceed, at the request of the adverse
party.

(5218) § 8. When the value in controversy or the sum demanded exceeds twenty dollars, either party may demand a jury,
and upon such demand the justice shall write down the names of
eighteen persons, residents of the county, and having the qualifications of jurors in the district court, from which list of _names
each party, the plaintifff beginning, may strike out six names alternately, and in case of the absence of either party, or hls refusal
to strike out, the justice may strike out of such list such names,
and the justice shall at once issue his venire directed to the sheriff
or any constable of the county, commanding him to summon the
six persons whose names remain upon the list as jurymen.

(5219) § 9. In case any juror summoned shall fail to attend,
the justice shall direct the sheriff or any constable to return forthwith a sufficient number of talesmen, having the qualifications of
jurors to complete the panel. Challenges to talesmen shall be admitted in the same manner, and for the same causes as in the district courts in civil actions, and must be tried in a summary
manner by the justice, who may examine the juror challenged, or
other witnesses under oath.

(5220) § 10. Parties may agree that the jury may consist of a
less number than six jurors, but an agreement to that effect must
be in writing, signed by the parties and filed with the papers in
the case, or made in open court, and a minute thereof entered by
the justice in his docket.

(5221) § 11. The justice shall administer to the jurors the
same oath as is prescribed for jurors in civil actions in the district
court. Five jurors may in all civil cases tried in a justice’s court
return a verdict.

(5222) § 12. When the cause of action or counterclaim arises

iupon an account or instrument for the payment of money only, the

court at any time before the trial may by an order under his hand
require the original to be exhibited to the inspection of and a copy
to be furnished to the adverse party at such time as may be fixed
in the order; or if such order is not obeyed, the account or instrument cannot be given in evidence.

(5223) § 13. If the plaintifff annex to his complaint, or file
with the justice at the time of issuing the summons the original or
a copy of the promissory note, bill of exchange, or other written
obligation for the payment of money upon which the action is
brought the defendant is deemed to admit the genuineness of the
signatures of the makers, indorsers or assignors thereof, unless he

specifically deny the same in his answer, and verify the answer
by his oath.

ARTICLE IO.——_]UI)GMENTS OTHER THAN BY DEFAULT.

SECTION. SECTION.

1. Judgment b confession. 6. Excess may be remitted.
2. Dismissal 0 action. ‘ 7. OEer of judgment, costs.
3. judgment entered, execution. 8. Costs taxed, how.

4. On trial by the court. 9. Transcript of judgment.

5. Action to recover personal property.

(5224) § 1. Judgments upon confession may be entered up

' in any justice’s court specified in the confession.

' (5225) § 2. Judgment that the action be dismissed, without
predjudice to a new action, may be entered, with costs, in the fol-lowing cases:

First. When the plaintifff voluntarially dismisses the action before it is finally submitted.

Second. When he fails to appear at the time specified in the
summons, or at the time to which the action has been postponed,
‘or within one hour thereafter.

Third. VVhen, after a demurrer to the complaint has been sustained, the plaintifff fails to amend it within the time allowed by
the court. _

(5226) § 3. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment
must be entered by the justice within twenty-four hours in conformity with the verdict, but execution may on application of
either party be issued at once.

(5227) § 4. When the trial is by the court, judgment must be
entered at the close of the trial.

(5228) § 5. In actions to recover the possession of personal
property, the judgment must be entered substantially in the form)
required by the provisions relating to the recovery of the possession of personal property in civil procedure.

(5229) § 6. When the amount found due to either party ex-,
ceeds the sum for which the justice is authorized to enter judgment, such party may remit the excess, and judgment may be
rendered for the residue.

(5230) § 7. _ If the defendant at any time before the trial offer
in writing to allow judgment to be taken against him for a speci- '
fied sum the plaintifff may immediately have judgment therefore,
with the costs then accrued, but if he do not accept such offer before the trial, and fail to recover in the action a sum equal to the
offer the cannot recover costs, but costs must be adjudged against
him and if he recover costs, [but costs, must be adjudged against
him, and if he recovers] be deducted from his recovery. The offer
and failure to accept it cannot be given in evidence nor affect the
recovery otherwise than as to costs, and cannot be mentioned on
the trial. _ _

(5231) § 8. The justice must tax and include in the judgment,
the costs allowed by law to the prevailing party. .

(5232) § 9. The justice on the demand of a party in whose
favor judgment is rendered must give him a certified transcr1pti~
thereof, on the payment to him of all costs accrued before him:

and one dollar for such transcript.

ARTICLE 1 I.-EXECUTIONS.

Sncnou. SECTION.

I. Execution must issue within five ,5. Execution in case of forcible entry
years. and detainer.

2. Requisites of execution. 6. Renewal of execution.

3. Execution on money jud meut. 7. Sale of personalty under execution.

4. Execution for possession 0 personalty.

(5233) § 1. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment of a
justice’s court may be issued by the justice who entered the judgment, or his successor in office, on the application of the party
entitled thereto, at any time within five years from the entry of
judgment, except when it has been taken to the district court on
error or appeal, or docketed therein.

(5234) § 2. The execution must be directed to the sheriff or
any constable within the county, and must be subscribed by the
justice and bear the date of its delivery to the officer. It must
intelligibly refer to the judgment,stating the names of the parties
thereto. in whose favor, against whom, the time when, the county
where, and the name of the justice before whom the judgment
was rendered; and it must be made returnable to the justice within thirty days after its date.

(5235) § 3. An execution issued upon a judgment for a sum
of money must state in the body thereof the sum actually due upon the judgment, and it must substantially require the officer to
satisfy the judgment, together with interest and costs, out of the
personal property of the judgment-debtor; and to bring the
money before the justice by the return day of the execution, to
be rendered by the justice to the party who recovered the judgment. If the judgment was rendered for a fine, penalty or forfeiture of undertakings and bonds, or of recognizances taken or
entered in a criminal case, the justice must indorse that fact on
the execution.

(5236) § 4. An execution entered upon a judgment for the
delivery of the possession of personal property, shall substantially
require the officer to deliver the possession of the same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto; and may, at the
same time require the officer to satisfy any costs or damages recovered by the judgment, out of the personal property of the
party against whom it was rendered, and the value of the property for which the judgment was recovered to. be specified therein,
if a delivery cannot be had.

(5237) § 5. An execution issued upon a judgment in an action
of forcible entry and detainer, or detainer only, of real property,
shall substantially require the officer to deliver the possession of
the premises, particularly describing them, to the party entitled
thereto, and may at the same time require the officer to satisfy
the costs out of the personal property of the party against whom
the judgment was rendered.

(5238) § 6. An execution may, at the request of the judgment
creditor, be renewed before the expiration of the time fixed for its

return, by the word “renewed” written thereon, with the date

thereof, and subscribed by the justice. Such renewal has the effect of an original issue, and may be repeated as often as necessary. If an execution is returned unsatisfied, another may be
afterward issued.

(5239) § 7. The provisions of civil procedure relating to the
levy and sale or delivery of personal property, so far as the same
are applicable and not inconsistent with the provisions of this act,
apply to and govern the levy, sale and delivery of personal
property, under execution issued by a justice of the peace. And
the constable, when the execution is directed to him, is vested
for that purpose with all the powers of the sheriff: Prozrided, That
notice shall not be published in a newspaper, but shall be given
by posting for ten days in five public places within the county,
one of which shall be at the office of the justice issuing the execution. '

ARTICLE I2.—-CONTEMPTS IN JUsTIcEs’ COURTS.

SECTION. SECTIQN.
I. Acts that constitute contempts- 4.. Penalty limited.
2. Summary punishment. 5. Must be entered in docket.
3. When contempt not in presence of
court. I

(5240) § 1. A justice may punish as for contempt, persons
guilty of the following acts, and no other:

First. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior towards
the justice while holding the court, tending to interrupt the due
course of a trial or other judicial proceeding.

Second. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent
disturbance in the presence of the justice, or in the immediate
vicinity of the court held by him, tending to interrupt the due
course of a trial or other judicial proceeding.

Third. Disobedience or resistence, to the execution of a lawful
order or process, made or issued by him.

Fourth. Disobedience to a subpoena duly served, or refusing to
be sworn or to answer as a witness. Fifth. Rescuing any person or property in the custody of an
officer by virtue of an order or process of the court held by him.

(5241) § 2. When a contempt is committed in the immediate
view and presence of the justice, it may be punished summarily;
to that end an order must be made, reciting the facts as they
occurred, and adjudging that the person proceeded against .15
thereby guilty of contempt, .and that he be punished as therein
prescribed. _ _

(5242) § 3. When the contempt is not committed in the immediate view and presence of the justice, a warrant of. arrest may
be issued by such justice, on which the person so guilty may be
arrested and brought before the justice immediately, when an opportunity to be heard in his defense or excuse must be.give.n.
The justice may, thereupon, discharge him, or may convict him
of the offense. '

(5243) § 4. A justice may punish’ for contempts, by fine or

imprisonment, or both; such fine not to succeed, in any case, one
hundred dollars, and such imprisonment one day.
(5244) § 5. The conviction, specifying particularly the offense

and the judgment thereon, must be entered by the justice in his
docket.

ARTICLE I3.——DOCKETS OF JUSTICES.

SECTION. SECTION.
1. Justice to keep a docket; entries 4. Records and files to go to successor. \
therein. 5. Vacancy, hooks to other justice.
2. Entries, when and how made. 6. Powers of justice receiving docket.

3. Index to docket.

(5245) § 1. Every justice must keep a book, denominated a
docket, in which he must enter: First. The title of every action or proceeding.

Second. The object of the action or proceeding; and if a sum
of money be claimed, the amount thereof.

Third. The date of the summons, and the time of its return;
and if a writ of attachment be issued, a statement of the fact.

Fourth. The time when the parties, or either of them, appear,
or their non-appearence, if default be made; a minute of the
pleadings and motions, if in writing, referring to them; if not in
writing, a concise statement of the material parts of the pleading.

Fifth. Every adjournment, stating on whose application, and
to what time.

Sixth. The demand for a trial by jury, when the same is made,
and by whom made, the order for the jury, and time appointed for
the return of the jury and for the trial.

Seventh. The names of the jurors who appear and are sworn,
and the names of all witnesses sworn and at whose request.

Eighth. The verdict of the jury and when received; if the jury
disagree and are discharged, the fact of such disagreement and
discharge.

Ninth. The judgment of the court specifying the costs included
and the time when rendered.

Tenth. The issuing or the execution when issued and to whom.
the renewals thereof if any and when made, and a statement of
any money paid to the justice when and by whom.

Eleventh. The receipt of a notice of appeal, if any be given.
and of the appeal bond if any be filed. _
n (5245) § 2. The several particulars in the last section specified must be entered under the title of the action to which they
relate, and unless otherwise in this chapter provided at the time
when they occur. Such entries in a justice’s docket, or a transcript thereof certified by the justice, or his successor in office, art?

/Jrima facic evidence of the facts so stated.

(5247) § 3. A justice must keep an alphabetical index to his
docket, in which must be entered the names of the parties to each
judgment, with a reference to the page of entry. The names of

the plaintifffs must be entered in the index, in the alphabetical order of the first letter of the family name.

(5248) § 4. Every justice of the peace. upon the expiration of
his term of oiiice, must deposit with his successor his official dockets and all papers Filed in his office, as' well his own as those of
his predecessors, or any other which may be in his custody to be
kept as public records.

(5249) § 5. If the office of a justice becomes vacant by his death,
removal or otherwise, before his successor is elected or qualified,
the docket and papers in possession of such justice must be
deposited in the office of some other justice in the township
or county, to be by him delivered to the successor of such justice.

(5250) § 6. Any justice with whom the docket of his predecessor, or of any other justice, is deposited, has and may exercise
over all actions and proceedings entered in such docket, the same
jurisdiction as if originally commenced before him. In case of
the creation of a new county, or the change of the boundary between two counties, any justice in whose hands the docket of a
justice formerly acting as such within the same Territory may come,
is, for the purposes of this section, considered the successor of such
former justice. '

ARTICLE 14. -—APPEALS.

SECTION. SECTION.
1. Appeal from judgment in justices’ 5. Undertaking on appeal is for stay of
court, roceeding_s. ‘
2. Appeal on questions oflaw,statement 6. Un ertaking in forcible entry and
to be prepared. dctamer. ’

3. Appeal on questions of fact. 7. Order for stay pf execution.
4 Justice to transmit ce;tiiied copy of 8. Powers of district court on appeal.
docket.

(5251) § 1. Any party dissatisfied with a judgment rendered.
in a civil action in a justice’s court, may appeal therefrom to the f}
district court of the county or subdivision at any time within
thirty days after the rendition of the judgment. The appeal is
taken by serving a copy of the notice of appeal on the adverse
party or his attorney, and by filing the notice of appeal with the
justice. The notice must state whether the appeal is taken from
the whole or a part of the judgment; and if from a part, what part,
and whether the appeal is taken on questions of law or fact, or
both. '

(5252) § 2. When a party appeals to the district court on
questions of law alone, or desiring a review therein,’ upon the evi- q.
dence appearing on the trial below, either of questions of facts or 3
law, he must, within ten days from the rendition of judgment,
prepare a statement of the case and file the same with the
justice. The statement must contain the grounds upon which
the party intends to rely on the appeal. and 50 much Of the
evidence as may be necessary to explain the grounds, and I10
more. Within ten days after he receives notice that the state-ment is med, the adverse party, if dissatisfied with the same,
may file amendments. The proposed statement and amendments
must be settled by the justice, and if no amendments be filed the

original statement stands as adopted. The statement thus adopted or as settled by the justice, with a copy of the docket of the
justice, and all motions filed with him by the parties during the
trial and the notice of appeal, may be used on the hearing of the
appeal before the district court. ‘

(5253)' § 3. When a party appeals to the district court on
questions of fact, or on question of both law and fact, and demands in his notice of appeal a new trial in the district court, no
statement must be made, but the action must be tried anew in
that court.

(5254) § 4. Upon receiving the notice of appeal, and on'

payment of one dollar for the return of the justice, and filing an
undertaking as required in the next section, and after settlement
or adoption of statement, if any, the justice must within five days
transmit to the clerk of the district, if the appeal be on questions
of fact or both law and fact, and a new trial in the district court
be demanded in the notice of appeal a certified copy of his docket,
the pleadings, all notices, motions and other papers filed in the
cause, the notice of appeal and the undertaking filed; in all other
cases a certified copy of his docket, the statement as admitted or
as settled, the notice of appeal and the undertaking filed; and the
justice may be compelled by the district court, by an order entered,
upon motion, to transmit such papers and may be fined for
neglect or refusal to transmit the same. A certified copy of such
order may be served on the justice by the party or his attorney.
In the district court either party may have the benefit of all legal
objections made in the justice’s court.

(5255) § 5. An appeal from a justice’s court is not effectual
for any purpose, unless an undertaking be filed, with two or more
sureties. in the sum of one hundred dollars, for the payment of the
costs on the appeal; or if a stay of proceedings be claimed, in a sum
equal to twice the amount of the judgment, including costs, when
the judgment is for the payment of money; or twice the value of the
property, including costs, when the judgment is for the recovery of
specific personal property, and must be conditioned, when the action
is for the recovery of money, that the appellant will pay the amount
of the judgment appealed from and all costs, if the appeal be withdrawn or dismissed, or the amount of any judgment and all costs
that may be recovered against him in the action in the district court.
When the action is for the recovery of specific personal property
the undertaking must be conditioned that the appellant will pay
the judgment and costs appealed from, and obey the order of the
court made therein, if the appeal be withdrawn or dismissed, or any
judgment and costs that may be recovered against him in said action
in the district court, and will obey any order made by the court
therein. A deposit of the amount of the judgement, including all
costs appealed from, or of the value of the property, including all
costs in actions for the recovery of specific personal property, with
the justice, is equivalent to the filing of the undertaking, and in
such cases the justice must transmit the money to the clerk of the
district court, to be by him paid out on the order of the court.
The adverse party may except to the sufiiciency of the sureties

within five days after the filing of the undertaking, and unless
they or other sureties justify before the justice before whom the
appeal is taken, within five days thereafter, upon notice to the
adverse party, to the amounts stated in their affidavits, the appeal
must be regarded as if no such undertaking had been given.
(5256) § 6. In judgments for the delivery of possession in actions of forcible entry and detainer, or detainer only, the execution of the same can not be stayed unless a written undertaking be
executed on the part of the appellant, with two orrmore sureties,

_ to the effect that during the possession of such property by the

appellant he will not commit or suffer to be committed any waste
thereon, and that if the judgment be affirmed, or the appeal be dismissed, he will pay all rents for the use and occupation of the
property, and all damages from the time of the appeal until the
delivery of the possession thereof.

(5257) § 7. If an execution be issued, on the filing of the undertaking staying proceedings, the justice must, by order, direct
the oliicer to stay all proceedings on the same. Such officer must,
upon payment of his fees for the services rendered on the execution, thereupon relinquish all property levied upon, and deliver
the same to the judgment debtor, together with allmonies collected from sales or otherwise. If his fees be not paid, the officer may
retain so much of the property or proceeds thereof as may be
necessary to pay the same.

(5258) § 8. Upon an appeal heard upon a statement of the,
case, the district court may review all orders affecting the judg-'
ment appealed from, and may set aside, aHirm or modify the
judgment, or any or allithe proceedings subsequent to or dependent upon such judgment, and may, if necessary or proper, order
a new trial. When the action is tried anew, upon appeal, the trial
must be conducted in all respects as trials in the district court.
The provisions of civil procedure as to changing the place of trial,
and all the provisions as to trials in’ the district court, are applicable to trials on appeal in that court. For a failure to prosecute
an appeal, or unnecessary delay in bringing it to a hearing, the
district court, after notice, may order the appeal to be dismissed.
Judgments rendered in the district court on appeal, have the same
force and effect, and may be enforced in the district court in the
same manner, as judgments in actions commenced therein, except
that when a new trial is granted the case must be remanded, and
the new trial shall be had in the justice’s court. No notice of trial
and note of issue shall be required to be served or filed in order to
bring the cause appealed upon the trial calendar in the district
court, but said appeal shall be filed by the clerk, on paymentof
his costs, and entered upon the calendar, and shall stand for trial
as soon as the same is reached in the regular call of the calendar
thereafter. If not so filed within fifteen days from the time such
appeal was perfected, then the same shall be dismissed by the
order of the court at any time thereafter, upon motion of the
appellee, after three days notice to the appellant or his attorney.

ARTICLE I5,——COI.l.EC'l‘ION or COMPENSATION FOR PERSONAL
SERVICES.

AN ACT to provide for collection of compensation for personal services.
[Took effect December 25, 1890.]

SECTION. SECTION. ‘
I. Laborers’ claim, petition; attorney’s 2. Contents of laborer’s claim.
D
fees.

Be it enacted by the Legz'slatz'22e Assembly of the Territory of Oklalzoma:

(5259) § 1. In all cases where any action is brought by any
clerk, servant, nurse 'or laborer of any kind for compensation
claimed, due for personal services performed, by the plaintifff for
the defendant, if the amount claimed be less than one hundred
dollars, and a recovery be had in such action, the plaintifff shall in
addition to the amount due be entitled to recover a judgment
against the defendant for an attorney’s fee of not less than two
dollars and fifty cents, and not more than fifteen dollars for the use
and benefit of plaintifff's attorney, together with costs. If, however, the defendant appear before the time set for trial and offer
to confess judgment for a sum of money and costs, and the plaintifff on trial fails to recover a greater sum, then no attorney's fees
or costs ‘made after the tender shall be taxed against the defendant.

(5260) § 2. Such laborer shall in his account or petition filed
in court, state that the action is brought to recover compensation
due for personal services, and the court shall state upon the records that fact, if judgment be recovered, and when an execution
is issued thereon, such execution shall be endorsed for personal
services and the defendant shall hold no property exempt from
levy under such execution, any exemption law to the contrary notwithstanding.

ARTICLE l6,—FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETENTION or PROPER'l‘\'.

AN ACT regulating proceedings in actions for the forcible entry and detention and forci~
ble detention only of property.

[Took effect December 25, 1890.]

SECTION. SECTION.
1. Powers ofjustices of the peace. It. Appeal to district court, stay, bond,
2. Tenant's unlawful holding, crop rent. exceptions saved.
3. Notice to vacate. I2. Appeal by defendant.
4. bummons, when issued, complaint, I3. judgment of restitution, writ of exe—

what contained therein. cution.

5. Summons, contents. I4, Time of executing writ, stay of pr0
6. Defendant's non appearance. ceedings. _
7. Continuance asked'liy defendant. I5. Tenant's eviction by writ from district

,8. Trial without jury. court.
9. Trial by jury. 16, Repeal,

I0. Judgment for less than claimed.

Be it enacted by t/ze [.egz'slalz'rre A sisembly of the Territory of
Okla/zoma:

(5261) § 1. Any justice of the peace within his proper county
shall have power to inquire, in the manner hereinafter directed,

as well [as] against those who make unlawful and forcible entry
into lands or tenements and detain the same, as against those who
having made lawful and peaceable entry into lands or tenements,
unlawfully and by force hold the same; and if it be found upon
such inquiry in either case that the lands or tenements are held
unlawfully, such justice of the peace shall cause the party complaining to have restitution thereof.

(5262) § 2. A tenant shall be deemed to hold unlawfully
whenever he has failed, neglected or refused to pay the rent,‘ or
any part thereof, when the same became due and payable, and
judgment either before a justice of the peace or in the district
court, under this act shall not be a bar to any action afterwards
brought by either party: Promkied, /zozvemr, That in cases of
tenants or agricultural lands where rent, or a part thereof, is payable in kind, the tenant shall not be evicted for non-payment of
rent, unless it be so expressly agreed in a written lease.

(5263) § 3. It shall be the duty of the party desiring to commence an action under this act to notify the adverse party in writing to leave the premises for the possession of which action is about
to be brought, which notice shall be served at least three days before commencing the action, by leaving a copy with the defendant
or at his usual place of abode.

(5264) § 4. The summons shall not issue until the plaintifff
shall have filed his complaint in writing under oath, with the justice, which shall particularly describe the premises so entered upon or detained, and shall set forth either ‘an unlawful and forcible
entry and detention-, or an unlawful detention of the premises described therein, and such complaint in a separate paragraph may
set forth the amount, if any, due for rent and for damages to the
premises and pray for a judgment for the rent due and damages,
as well as for restitution of the premises. (5265) § 5. The summons shall be issued and directed; shall.
state the cause of complaint, the time and place for trial, and shall
be served and returned as in other cases.

(5266) §.6. If the defendant fail to appear at the time appointed, for trial in the summons, or at any time to which the‘
case may be continued or adjourned. the trial shall proceed in all
respects as though he were present. 5

(5267) § 7. No continuance shall be granted at the instance
of the defendant unless he give an undertaking to the advers.e<
party with sufficient surety, to be approved by the justice conditioned that the defendant will comply with the judgment that
may be rendered against him in such action, unless the defendant
have filed an answer under oath denying the material facts set
forth in the complaint, and in such case the continuance shall not
be for a longer period than eight days without the defendant filing
a bond as in this action provided. _ _

(5268) § 8. At the time fixed for the trial of the case, If.
neither party demand a jury, the justice shall proceed to try the’
same. If, after hearing the evidence and arguments, he shall be
of the opinion that the complaint is not true, he shall render judgment against the plaintifff for costs. If he find the complaint true,

in whole or in part, he shall render such judgment in favor of the
' plaintifff and against the defendant, as the plaintifff may be entitled to under the complaint and evidence, and the plaintifff shall
be entitled to recover double rent from the date of service of the
notice to leave the premises, if it be found that the defendant willfully unlawfully withholds possession of the premises.

(5269) § 9. If a jury be demanded by either party, the proceedings, until the -empanelling thereof, shall be the same as in
other civil cases; the jury shall be sworn or affirmed to well and
truly trythe complaint, and renderatrue verdict. If they find the
complaint true, they shall render a general verdict of guilty against
the defendant; if they find the complaint not true, they shall render a general verdict of not guilty. If they find the complaint true in
part they shall render a verdict to that effect, setting forth the facts
they find true, and in either case they shall find the amount of
rent, if any, clue to the plaintifff and the amount of damages, if any,
which the plaintff has sustained. The justice shall enter the verdict upon his docket, and shall render such judgment in the action
as if the facts authorizing the finding of such verdict had been
found by himself to be true.

(5270) § 10. In all actions brought under this act if upon the
trial the evidence shows that any portion of the premises described
in the complaint and notice are unlawfully withheld by the defendant, the plaintifff shall be entitled to such judgment as
though such portion only had been described in such complaint
and notice.

(5271) § 11. Exceptions to the opinion of the justice upon
questions of law whether the case is tried with or without a jury
may be taken by either party and the proceedings of the justice
reviewed by the district court upon a petition in error, or either
party may appeal from the judgment rendered by the justice as in
other civil cases, but in no case shall such petition in error or appeal operate as a stay of proceedings before the justice unless and
until the party aggrieved file a bond with such justice, conditioned
for the payment [of such judgment] and costs as may be rendered
against him in the district court.

(5272) § 12. In all appeals or writs of error to the district

ii court under the provisions of this act, if such appeal or writ of

error, be taken by the defendant, and the judgment in the action
be rendered in said court, against the defendant, such judgment
shall include double rent for the time such premises were willfully
and unlawfully withheld by defendant, during the pendency of
the appeal or writ of error, and if not willfully withheld, then only
reasonable rent shall be included.

(5273) § 13. Where a judgment of restitution shall be entered by a justice of the peace, he shall at the request of the plaintifff.
his agent or attorney, issue a writ of execution thereon which
shall be in the following form as near as practicable:

TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA,
ss.

   .. ..COUNTY.

To the constable or sheriff of. . . . . . . . . . . .County
Whereas, in a certain action for the forcible entry and detention
or the forcible detention, as the case may be, of the following

described premises, to-wit: .. .. .. .. .. .  . .. .. . .lately tried before me, wherein.. .. ..  .. .. ..  .'. .. .. ..was plaintifff,
and.. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..  .. .. .. ..was defendant, judgment was
rendered on the.. .. .. ..day of.. .: .. .. ..A. D.. .. .., that the
plaintifff has restitution of said premises, and also that he recover
of said defendant the sum of.. .. . . .. . .dollars, and costs in the
sum of. . . . . . . . . . . . . .dollars, you are thereforee and hereby commanded to cause the defendant to be forthwith removed from
said premises, and the said plaintifff to have restitution of the
same, also that you levy on the goods and chattles of said defendant and make the amount of the judgment and the costs aforesaid
and all accruing costs, and of this writ make legal service and
due return.

Witness my hand this.. .. ..dayof..  .. .. .. .. ..A. D.. ..

Justice of the Peace.

Which writ shall be served only in day time.

(5274) § 14. The officer shall, within three days after receiving the writ, execute the same by restoring the plaintifff to the
possession of the premises, and by collectiug the amount of the
judgment and the costs as in other actions, and shall make return
of said writ as in other civil actions. If the officer shall receive

notice from the justice that the proceedings have been stayed by
an appeal or petition in error. he shall immediately delay all

further proceedings under the execution, and if the premises have

been restored to the plaintifff, he shall immediately place the defendant in the possession thereof, and return the writ with -his

proceedings and costs taxed thereon.
(5275) § 15. If the tenant is evicted by writ from the district

court, and on appeal the judgment be in his favor, he shall on
proper supplemental plea, filed in the district court, recover judgment for the damages sustained by such wrongful eviction, and if
the time of his tenancy has not expired, he shall have writ of restitution for the leased premises.

(5276) § 16. All other laws in force in this Territory in conflict herewith are hereby repealed when this act takes effect.

ARTICLE I7.—-GENERAL PROVISIONS.

SEc1'1o1q_ bECTION. _ _

1. Process of justice to any part of 5. Security for costs from non-residents.
county_ 6. Costs to prevailing party.

2. Papers issued by justice must have no 7. Attorney's fees allowed.
blankg_ 8. Civil procedure, applicable.

3. Justice must receive monies. 9. Error in appeal not fatal.

4. Another justice may hold court.

(5277) § 1. Justices of the peace may issue in any action or
proceedings in the courts held by them, any original, mesne or
or final process to any part of the county.

(5278) § 2. The summons, execution and every other paper
made or issued by a justice, excepta subpoena, must be issued
without a blank left to be filled by another, otherwise it ’is void.

(5279) § 3. Justices of the peace must receive from the sheriff
or constable of their county, all monies collected on any process or order issued from their courts respectively, and all
monies paid to them in their official capacity, and must pay
the same over to the parties entitled or authorized to receive them,
without delay.

_ (5280) §  In case of the sickness or other disability, or neces'sary absence of a justice, on a return of a summons, or at the
time appointed for a trial, another justice of the same township or
county, may, at his request, attend in his behalf, and thereupon
is vested with _the power, for the time being, of thepjustice before
whom the summons was returnable. In that case the proper
entry of the proceedings before the attending justice, subscribed
by him, must be made in the docket of the justice before whom
the summons was returnable. If the case is adjourned, the justice
before whom the summons was returnable, may resume jurisdiction.

5 (5281) § 5. The justice shall in all cases where the plaintifff
is a non-resident of the Territory, or foreign corporation, before
filing and docketing the cause and issuing a summons, require of
the plaintifff sufficient surety for costs. The surety must be a
resident of the county. His obligation shall be complete by
simply endorsing the summons, or signing his_ name on the complaint, as security for costs. 8

(5282) § 6. The prevailing party in civil actions in justices‘
courts is entitled to costs except when otherwise specifically provided by law. ,

5 (4283) § 7. In all actions in justices’ courts, the party obtaining
judgment shall be entitled to attorney's fees as follows: On all
judgments less than twenty-Five dollars, an amount equal to twenty per cent of such judgment; on all judgments over twentyfive dollars and under fifty dollars, five dollars as attorney’s fees ;
on all judgments over fifty dollars, an amount equal to ten per
cent of such judgment as attorney's fees; in actions for the recovery of personal property, the value of the property recovered shall
govern the amount of attorney’s fees to be recovered in such action, and when judgment is for the defendant the amount claimed
in the plaintifff's complaint shall govern the amount of attorney's
fees to be recovered by the defendant: Pro2rz'a’ea', /zowevcr, That
no attorney's fees shall be allowed in any such action, unless the
party has appeared therein by an attorney of a court of record.

_ (_5284) § 8. justices‘ courts being courts of peculiar and limited

_jur1.sdiction, only those provisions of civil procedure which are in
their nature applicable to the organization, powers, and course of
proceedings in justices‘ courts, or which have been made applicable to justices‘ courts by special provisions in this chapter are
applicable to justices‘ courts and the proceedings therein.

(5235) § 9- In any Case taken to the district court on writ of
31701’ P1‘ 3QP¢?_11. 11116 Cau.Se shall not be dismissed by reason of an
€1‘Y01'1n bringing an action to the court by the wrong method; but

the district CON“ Shall treat it as an appeal or writ of error as
should be done under the record,

ARTICLE 18.—JusT1cEs’ QUARTERLY REPORT TO COUNTY

\ BOARD.
SECTION. SECTION.
I. Justices must make quarterly report 3. Must pay over all money.
to county board. 4. Penalty for violating.
2. Contents of the reports. 5. Violation is a crime.

(5286) § 1. It shall be the duty of all justices of the peace to
make a full report, under oath, of all their proceedings in actions
or matters in which the county or Territory is a party, or interested therein, to the county commissioners of each of their respective counties, on the first Monday of January, April, July and

October of each year.
(5287) § 2. Such report shall contain the names of the parties

to the action or proceeding, a statement of all orders made by
said justice,’ whether the defendantbe bound over or otherwise.
the judgment, whether of dismissal or imprisonment, or for a line
and costs, or either; if for imprisonment, the extent thereof and
costs; if for a fine, the amount thereof and costs, the amount of
line and costs paid, if anyrand the disposition thereof; an itemized account of the fees of said justices, and of all oliicers and witnesses, and the names of each.

(5288) § 3. Said justices shall pay into the treasury of their
respective counties all lines and monies collected by them in behalf of the county or Territory, at the time of making their
reports, as provided in this act; but if at any _;~ime, such monies in
their hands amount to two hundred dollars, they shall pay the
same into the treasury forthwith. A

(5289) § 4. Any justice of the peace violating any of the provisions of this act shall be liable to a line of not less than ten nor
more than one hundred dollars, to be recovered in a civil action
by the county, which action may be brought originally in a justice’s
court or the district court.

(5290) § 5. And if any justice of the peace shall neglect or
refuse to make such report, or neglect or refuse to pay ‘over the‘
aforesaid monies collected by them, orshall refuse to allow the
county commissioner or any of them, to examine their records in
regard to such matters, they shall be deemed guilty of willful and

corrupt misconduct in oliice.


