ANA OTTO REGULATE PROCEEDINGS IN ACTIONS AT LAW IN THE
SUPREME AND DISTRICT COURTS.
CHAPTER I.
CIVIL ACTIONS.
TITLE I. Qf their Form.
TITLE II. Of the Place of Trial; Actions at Law.
TITLE III. Of the .Aanner of commencing Actions at Law.
TITLE IV. Of the Pleadings.
TITLE V. Of the Complaint.
TITLE VI. Of the Demurrer.
TITLE VII. Of the Answer.
TITLE VIII. Of the Reply.
TITLE IX. General Rules of Pleadings.
TITLE X. Of .Mistakes in Pleadings and Amendments.
TITLE XI. Of Arrest and Bail.
TITLE XII. Of the Claim and delivry of
TITLE XIII. Of Attachment.
TITLE I.
Of the Fborm of Actions at Law, and tce Parties thereto.
1. Distinction between forms of civil actiohs abolished.
2. Parties to actions, how designated.
3. Actions, how commenced.
82, 4. Assignment of thing in action not to prejudice defense. 6. Executor or trusteo may sue without the person beneficially interested.
0. When a married woman is a party, her husband to be joined, except, &c.
7. Infant to appear by guardian.
8. Guardian how appointed.
9. Father may sue for seduction of daughter.
10. When unmarried females may prosecute for their own seduction.
11. Plaintiff may sue in one action tl:e different parties to commercial paper.
12. Action not to abate by death, marriage, or other disability, &c., proceedimgs
in such case.
13. Court when to decide controversy, or order other parties to be brought in.
SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the Territory
of Oregon, That the distinction between the forms of actions at law heretofore existing is abolished; and there shall be in this territory hereafter, but one form of action at law for the enforcement or pro- tection of private rights, except as otherwise expressly provided
by statute.
SEC. 2. In such action the party complaining shall be known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant.
SEc. 3. Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section five. 
SEC. 4. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-6ff or other defense existing at the time of, or before notice of the as- signment; but this section shall not apply to a negotiable promis- sory note or bill of exchange transferred in good faith and upon good consideration before due. 
SEC. 5. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute may sue witliout joining with him the person for whose benefit the action is prose- cuted. A person with whom, or in whose name a contract is made
for the benefit of another, is a trustee of an express trust within
the meaning of this section.
SEC. 6. When a married woman is a party, her husband shall be joined with her, except that, 1. When the action concerns her separate property she may sue
alone. ,
2. When the action is between herself and her husband, she may sue or be sued alone.
But when her husband cannot be joined with her,'as herein pro- vided, and she is an infant under twenty-one years of age, she
shall prosecute or defend by her next friend.
SEC. 7. When an infant is a party, he shall appear by guardian, may be appointed by the court in which the action is brought, or by a judge thereof. 
SEC. 8. The guardian shall be appointed as follows: 1. When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of the infant,
if he be of the age of fourteen years; or if under that age,
upon the application of a relation or friend of the infant.
2. When the infant is defendant, upon an application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within
twenty days after.the service of the summons; if he be under the
age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then upon the application
of any other party to .the action, or of a relation or friend of the
infant.
SEc. 9. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his
family, the mother may prosecute as plaintifff for the seduction of
a daughter, and the guardian for the seduction of a ward, though
the daughter or ward be not living with, or in the service of the
plaintifff at the time of the seduction or afterwards, and there be no
loss of service.
SEC. 10. An unmarried female over twenty-one years of age may
prosecute as plaintifff an action for her own seduction, and recover
therein such damages as may be assessed in her favor; but the
prosecution of an action to judgment by the father, mother, or
guardian, as prescribed in the preceding section, shall be a bar to
an action by such unmarried female.
SEC. 11. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or
instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promishill
sory notes may, all or any of them, be included in the same action,
at the option of the plaintifff.
SEc. 12. No action shall abate by the death, marriage or other
disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if
the cause of action survive or continue. In case of the death, marriage, or other diqability of a party, the court may, on motion,
allow the action to be continued by or against his representatives
or successor in interest.
SEC. 13. The court may determine any controversy between
parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the
rights of others, or by saving their rights; but when a complete determination of the controversy cannot be bad without the
presence of other parties, the court shall order them to be brought
TITLE II.
Of the Place of Trial; Actions at Law.
14. Certain actions to be tried where the subject or some part is situated.
15. Other actions, where the cause or some part thereof arose.
16. Other actions according to defendant's residence.
17. When a change of venue may be had; proceedings of applicant, &c.
18. Application for change of venue; applicant not entitled to a second change.
19. When judge to transmit order of change, &c., to clerk.
20. Transcript of record to be sent by clerk of court where cause is pending, to
the clerk of court where cause is to be tried.
21. Applicant to pay costs.
22. When order for change of venue may be cancelled.
23. Cause to be docketed, on filing of transcript, &c., in clerk's office.
SEC. 14. Actions for the following causes, shall be tried in the
county in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof is'
situaed, subject to the power of the court to change the place of
trial, in the cases provided by statute:
1. For the recovery of real property or of an estate or interest
therein, or for the determination in any form, of such right or interest,
and for injuries to rieal property;
2. For the partition of real property;
8. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property;
4. For the recovery of any personal property distrained for any
cause.
SEc. 15. Actions for the following causes shall be tried in the
county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose, subject to the
like power of the court to change the place of trial in the cases pro- vided by statute:
1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute;
except that when it is imposed for an offense committed on a lake,
river, or'other stream of water, situated in two or more counties,
the action may be brought in any county bordering on such lake,
river, or stream, and opposite to the place where the offense was
committed:
2. Against a public officer or person specially appointed to exe- cute his d'uties for an act done by him in virtue of his office; or against a person,who, by his command, or in his aid, shall do anything
touching the duties of such officer.
SEC. 16. In all other cases, the action shall be tried in the county in which the defendants or either of them reside, or may be found, at the commencement of the action ; or if none of the parties reside in this territory, the same may be tried in any county which the
plaintifff may designate in his complaint; subject, however, to the
power of the court to change the place of trial, as provided by statute.
SEc. 17. A change of venue, or the place of trial, may be had on the application of either of the parties in the following cases: 1. When the county in which the action is pending shall, be a
party thereto or interested therein
2. When the judge shall be directly interested in the action, or
connected by blood or affinity with any person so interested, nearer
than in the fourth degree;
3. When the party applying for such change shall make and file
an affidavit, stating that the judge or the inhabitants of the county
are so prejudiced against him that he cannot expect an impartial
trial, that the application for the change of venue is not made for
the purpose of delay.
SEC. 18. An application for the change of venue may be made, either to the court in term time or to a judge thereof in vacation, and the change shall be to the most convenient county in which there shhl be no exception of the character of those above enumerated.
But neither party shall be entitled to more than one change
of venue, except for causes not in existence when the first change
may have been taken.
SEc. 19. If the change of venue be ordered by the judge in va- cation, he shall immediately transmit to the clerk of the court where the cause is pending, the affidavit if any, and the order for the change, who shall file the same in his office. 
SEc. 20. In such cases, as well as where the order shall be made in open court, the clerk shall foithwith transmit to the clerk of the
proper court, a transcript of the record and proceedings in such
cause with all the original papers filed therein, having first made
out and filed in his own office authenticated copies of .all such original
papers.
SEc. 21. The costs of such change of venue shall be paid by the applicant therefore, and not taxed as a part of the costs of the case, and the clerk may require payment of such costs before the transcript
and papers shall be transmitted as aforesaid. .
SEC. 22. If such transcript of the record and proceedings be not
transmitted to the clerk of the proper court within twenty days after
the order for the change of venue shall be filed, (unless a longer time
be allowed by the judge,) such order may be annulled by the court
or j udge who made the same, and in such case no other change of
venue shall be allowed to such applicant.
SEC. 23. Upon filing such transcript and papers in the office of
the clerk of the court to which the same were certified, the cause
shall be docketed, and the same proceedings had as though it had
originated in that court.
TITLE III.
Of the .anner of Commencing Actions at Law.
24. Actions how commenced.
25. Summons when issued.
26. Summons, requisites of.
27. Notice to be inserted in certain actions.
28. Service and return of summons.
29. Summons and complaint how served.
30. Publication when defendant cannot be found.
31 & 32. Publication how made; defendant's rights in such cases.
33. When the clerk may issue a second summons.
34. Proceedings where there are several defendants, and part only are served.
35. Service of summons, &e., how proved.
36. When jurisdiction of action acquired.
SEC. 24. Actions at law in the several district courts of this termenced.
ritory, shall be commenced by the filing of a complaint with tlhe
clerk of the court, and the issuing of a summons thereon..
SEC. 25. The clerk shall indorse on the complaint, the day, month,
and year that the same shall be filed; and at any time thereafter,
the plaintifff may have a summons issued, which shall be directed
to the defendant, and shall be signed by the clerk, and issued under
the seal of the court, and shall be made returnable on the first day
of the next term of court.
SEC. 26. The summons shall require the defendant to appear and
answer the complaint, or that judgment by default will be takon
against him.
1. If he ba served within the county in which the action is
brought, ten days before the term of the court; or if in any other
county, thirty days before the court, he shall be required to appear
and answer the complaint on the return day of the summons.
2. If he be served less than ten days, within the county in which'
the action is brought, or less than thirty days in any other county,
he shall appear and answer the complaint on the first day of the
term next after the return day of the summons.
SEC. 27. There shall also be inserted in the summons a notice, in subitance as follows:
. 1. In an action arising on contract for the recovery of money or
damages only, that~the plaintifff will take judgment for a sum specified
therein, if the defendant fail to answer the complaint.
2. In other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the complaint,
the plaintifff will apply to the court for the relief demanded
therein.
SEC. 28. The summons shall be served by the sheriff of the sumn.county where the defendant is found, or by his deputy, or by a person specially appointed by him, or by a person appointed by the judge of the court in which the action is brought. The summons
shall be returned to the office of the clerk from which it issued, with
the certificate of the sheriff or his deputy, or the affidavit of the*
person appointed, of.its service, and of the service of a copy of the
complaint. When served out of the county in which the action is
brought, the summons may be returned by mail, and the postage
taxed with-the costs of suit.
SEc. 29. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy thereof, together with a copy of the complaint prepared by the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, as follows:
1. If the action be against a corporation, to the president or other head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, or managing agent
thereof ;
2. If against any county in this territory, to one of the board of
commissioners of such county, or to the clerk of the commissioners;
3. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such
minor personally, and also to his father, mother or guardian; or if
there be none within this territory, then to any person having the
care or control of such minor, or with whom he resides, or in whose
service he is employed;
4. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and for whom a guaro1 dian has been appointed, to such guardian and to the defendant personally.
5. In all other cases to the defendant personally, or if he be not
found, to some white person of the family, above the age of fourteen
years, at the dwelling house or usual place of abode of the defendant.
SEc. 30. When service of the summons cannot be made as pre. scribed in the last preceding section, and the defendant after due cannot be found within the territory, and when that fact appears by affidavit to the satisfaction of the court or judge there- of, and it in like manner appears that a cause of action exists against the defendant, or that he is a proper party to an action relating
to real property in this territory, such court or judge may
grant an order that the service be made by publication of a summons
in either of the following cases:
1. When the defendant is a foreign corporation, and has property
withiin the territory, or the cause of action arose therein ;
2. When the defendant being a resident of this territory, has departed
therefrom with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid
the service of a summons, or shall keep himself concealed therein
with the like intent;
3. When the defendant is not a resident of the territory but has
roperty therein, and the action arises on contract, and the court
has jurisdiction of the subject of the action ;
4. When the action is for divorce in the cases prescribed by
law.
SEC. 31. The order shall direct the publication to be made in a newspaper published in the county where the 'action is brought, and if there be no newspaper published in the county, then in a
newspaper to be designated as most likely to give notice to, the
person to be served, and for such length of time as may be deemed
reasonable,.not less than once a week for six weeks; or in case the
defendant be absent from, or residing out of this territory, not less
than once a week for three months. In oase of publication, the
court or judge shall also direct a copy of the summons and complaint
to be forthwith deposited in the post office, directed to the
defendant at his place of residence, unless it shall appear that such
residence is not known to the party making the application. When
publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons
and complaint out of the territory, shall be equivalent to publication
and deposit in the post office. In either case, the service of
the summons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of the
time prescribed in the order for publication.
SEc. 32. The defendant against whom publication is ordered,
scaseosr .hi s representatives, on application and sufficient cause shown, at
any time before judgment, shall be allowed to defend the action;
and, except in an action for divorce, the defendant against whom
publication is ordered, or his representatives may in like manner,
upon good cause shown, be allowed to defend after judgment, and
within one year after the rendition of such judgment on such terms
as may be just, and if the defense be successful, and the judgment
or any part thereof have been collected or otherwise enforced, such
restitution may thereupon be compelled as the court shall direct.
SEc. 33. Whenever it shall appear by the return of the sheriff, his deputy, or the person appointed to serve a summons, that he
has not served it upon the defendants as prescribed in the twentyninth section, the clerk shall, at the request of the plaintifff, issue
another summons, and so on until service be had; or the plaintifff
may proceed by publication in the manner before stated, at his
election.
SEC. 34. When the action is against two or more defendants, and
the summons is served on one or more, but not all of them, the
plaintifff may proceed as follows: 1. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted upon a
contract, he may proceed against the defendants served, unless the
court otherwise dixect; and if he recover judgment, it may be entered
against all the defendants thus j6intly indebted, so far only as
that it may be enforced against the joint property of all and the
separate property'of the defendant served, aud if they are subject
to arrest against the persons of the defendants served; or
2. If the action be against the defendants seveially liable, he may
proceed against the defendants served, in the same manner as if they
were the only defendants.
SEC. 35. Proof of the service of the summons and complaint shall be as follows:
1. If served by the sheriff or his deputy, the certificate of such
sheriff or deputy; or
2." If by any:other person, his affidavit thereof; or
3. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer or his foreman
or his principal clerk, showing the same; and an affidavit of
deposit of a copy of the summons and complaint in the post office,
the same shall have been deposited; or
. 4. The written admission of the defendant. In case of service, otherwise than by publication, the certificate, affidavit or admission
must state the time and place of service. 
SEC. 86. From the time of the service of the summons and com- plaint in an action at law, the court shall be deemed to have ac. jurisdiction, and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings.
A voluntary appearance of the defendant shall be equivalent
to personal service of the summons upon him.
TITLE IV.
Of the Pleadings in Actions of Lazo.
SY. Forms of pleading inconsistent with this act abolished.
38. What pleadings are allowed.
SEC. 87. All the forms of pleading her6tofore existing in actions at law, inconsistent with the provisions of this act, are abolished; and hereafter the forms of pleading, and the rules by which the sufficiency of the pleadings is to be determined, shall be those pre- scribed by statute. 
SEC. 38. The only pleadings on the part of the plaintifff shall be: 1. The complaint; 2. The demurrer; or
3. The reply.
And on part of the defendant:
1. The demurrer; or
2. The answer.
TITLE V.
THe Complaint.
39. First pleading to be complaint.
40. Complaint what to contain.
SEC. 89. The first pleading on the part of the plaintifff shhlll be the complaint. SEC. 40. The complaint shall contain: 1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court, and the name of the county in which the action is brought, and the names of the parties to the action, plaintifff and defendant.
2. A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, without .u- n*n ecessary repetition. 8 3. A demand of the relief which the plaintifff claims. If the re- covery of money or damages be demanded, the amount thereof shall be stated.
TITLE VI.
The Demurrer.
1. When defendant may demur.
42. Demurrer must specify ground of objection to complaint.
43. How to proceed if complaint be amended.
44. Objection when taken by answer.
45. Objecition when domed waived.
SEC. 41. The defendant may demur to the complaint within the
time required in the summons to answer, when it appears upon the
face thereof; either:
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or the subject of the action;, or
2. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue; or
3. That there is another action pending between the same, parties
for the same cause; or
4- That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant; or
5. That several causes of action have been improperly united; or 6. That the complaint does not state facts isufficient to constitute
a cause of action. N
SEC. 42. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds of
objection to the complaint, unless it does so it may be disregarded.
It may be taken to the whole complaint, or to any of the alleged causes of action stated therein. 
SEC. 43. If the complaint be amended, a copy thereof shall be
served on the defendant or his attorney of record, and the defendamended.
ant shall answer the same within such time as may be prescribed
by the court, and if ho omit to do so, the ylaintiff may proceed to
obtain judgment as in other cases of failure to answer.
SEc. 44. When any of the matters enumerated in section fortywhen
one do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may
be taken by answer.
SEC. 45. If no objection be taken, either by demui'rer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, excepting
only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and the objection
that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action.
TITLE VII.
The Answer.
46. Answer what to contain.
47. May sot forth as many grounds of defense as exist.
48. Demurrer as to some causes of action, and action as to others.
49. Sham defenses to be stricken out.
SEC. 46. The answer of the defendant shall contain:
1. A specific denial of each material allegation of the complaint
controverted by the defendant, according to his knowledge, infora
mation or belief, or of any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a belief.
2. A plain and cotcise statement of any new matter constituting
a defense or set-off without unnecessary repetition.
SEc. 47. The defendant may set forth by answer as many denees
fences as he may have. They shall each be separately stated, and
refer to the causes of action which they are intended to answer, in
any manner by which they may be intelligibly distinguished.
SEC. 48. The defendant may demur to one or more of several causes of actions stated in the complaint, and answer the residue.
SEC. 49. Sham and irrelevant answers and defenses may be
stricken out on motion, and upon such terms as the court may in
its discretion impose.
TITLE VIII.
Of the Reply.
8E0. 50. Reply, when put in, what to contain.
51. When defendant may move for judgment on answer.
52. Demurrer to reply.
SEC. 50. When the answer contains new matter constituting a defense or set-off, the plaintifff may, within ten days, reply to such new matter, denying specifically each allegation controverted by him according to his knowledge, information or belief, or any knowledge
or information thereof sufficient to form a belief, and he may
allege, in a plain and concise manner, without unnecessary repetition,
any ncw matter, not inconsistent with the complaint, constituting
a defense to such new matter in the answer; or he may demur
to the same for insufliciency, stating in his demurrer- the
grounds thereof, and the plaintifff may demur to'one or more of
several defenses or set-offs in the answer, and reply to the residue.
SEC. 51. If the answer contain a statement of new matter consti- a defense, and the plaintifff fails to reply or demur thereto within the time prescribed by law, the defendant may move in court for such judgment as he shall be entitled to upon such statement,
and if the case require it, a writ of inquiry of damages may
be issued.
SEC. 52. If a reply of the plaintifff to any defense set up by the answer of the defendant 'be insufficient, the defendant may demur thereto, and shall state the grounds thereof.
TITLE IX.
General Rules of Pleading.
58. No pleading but complaint, answer, reply and demurrers.
54. VerifIcation of pleadings.
55. How to state an account in pleadings.
56. Pleadings to be construed liberally.
57. Irrelevant and redundant matter to be stricken out.
58. Judgments how to be pleaded.
59. Conditions precedent, how to be pleaded.
60. Private statutes, how to be pleaded.
61. Libel and slander, how stated in complaint.
62; Answer in such cases.
63. Aiswer in actions to recover property distrained.
04. When several causes of action may be united in same complaint.
05. Allegation not denied; when to be doomed true.
66. Nature of a material allegation.
SEC. 53. Every pleading shall be subscribed by the party or his attorney, and, except a demurrer, shall also be verified by affidavit,
as set forth in the next section.
SEC. 54. The verification shall be to the effect that the same is true to the knowledge of the person making it, except as to matters stated on information and belief, and as to those mattrs that he
believes it to be true. The affidavit shall be made by the party, or if there be several parties united in interest, and pleading together,
by one of such parties if he be within the county in which the action
is brought, and capable of making the affidavit, unless the
action or defense be founded upon a written instrument for the
payment of money only, and such instrument be irr the possession
of the agent or attorney, or if all the materihl allegations of the
pleading be within the personal knowledge of the agent or attorney,
in which case the affidavit may also be made by such agent or
attorney. If the party pleading shall not be within the county in
which the action is brought, such pleading may be verified by the
party,. his agent or attorney, or by any person having a knowledge
of the facts, and when the affidavit shall be made by any other person
than the party, he shall set forth in it his knowledge, or the
grounds of his belief on the subject, and the reason why it is not
made by the party. When a corporation is a party, the verification
may be made by any officer thereof; and when the territory,
or any officer thereof in its behalf is a party, the verification may
be made by any person acquainted with the facts. The verification
may be omitted when an admission of the truth of the allegations
might subject the party to prosecution for felony. And no
pleading shall be used in a criminal prosecution against the party,
as proof of a fact admitted or alleged in such pleading.
SEC. 55. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading, a copy of the instrument of writing, or the items of an
account therein alleged, but unless he file a verified copy thereof
with such pleading, and serve the same on the adverse party, he
shall within ten days after a demand thereof in writing, deliver to
the adNverse party, a copy of such instrument of writing, or the
items of an account, verified by his own oath, or that of his agent
or attorney, to the effect that he believes it to be true; or be preeluded
from giving evidence thereof. The court, or a judge thereof
may order a further account when the one delivered is defective,
and the court may in all cases order a bill of particulars of the
claim of either party to be furnished. I
SEC. 56. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of deenotrtermining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with
a view of substantial justice between the parties.
SEC. 67. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleadmatter
ing, it may be stricken out on motion of any person aggrieved there- by; and when the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or uncertain that the precise nature of the charge or defense is not apparent,
the court may require the pleading to be made definite and
certain by amendment.
SEC. 58. In pleading a judgment or other determination of a
court or officer of special jurisciction, it shall not be necessary to
state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination
maybe stated to have been duly given or made. If such
allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to
establish on the trial the facts conferring jurisdiction.
SEC. 59. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in
a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such
performance, but it may be stated generally that the party duly performed
all the conditions on his part; and if such allegation be
controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish on the
trial the facts showing such performance. In an action or defense
founded upon an instrument for the payment of money only, it shall
be sumfficient for the party to give a copy of the instrument, and to
state that there is due to him thereon from the adverse party a spe- cific sum which he claims.
SEc. 60. In pleading a private statute, or a right'derived there- it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title and the day of its passage, and the court shall thereupon take judicial
notice thereof.
SEc. 61. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary state in -the complaint any extrinsic facts, for the purpose of showing the application to the plaintifff of the defamatory matter out of which the cause of action arose; but it shall be sufficient to
state generally that the same was published or spoken concerning
the plaintifff; and if such allegation be controverted, the plaintifff
shall be bound to establish on trial that it was so published or
spoken.
SEc. 62. In the actions mentioned inithe last section, the defend. ant may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged
as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances, to reduce the
amount of damages; and whether he prove the justification or not,
he may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.
SEc. 63. In an action to recover the possession of property, dis- trained doing damage, an answer that the defendant or person by command he acted, was lawfully possessed of the real pro- upon which the distress was made, and that the property dis- trained was at the time doing damage thereon, shall be good, without
setting forth the title to such real property.
SEC. 64. The plaintifff may unite several causes of action in the complaint when they all arise out of 1. Contract, express or implied; or,
2. Injuries, with or without force, to the person; or,
3. Injuries, -with or without force, to property; or,
4. Injuries to character; of,
5. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages for
withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the same; or,
6. Claims to recover personal property, with or without damage
for the withholding thereof ; or,
7. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by operation
of law.
But the causes of action so united, must all belong to one only of
these classes, and must affect all the parties to the action, and not
require different places of trial, and must be separately stated.
SEC. 65. Every material allegation of the complaint, not speci- fically controverted by the answer, and every material allegation of new matter in the answer, not specifically controverted by the re- ply, shall, for the purposes of the action, be taken as true; but the
allegation of new matter in a reply shall not in any respect conclude
the defendant, who may on the trial countervail it by proofs, either
in direct denial or by way of avoidance.
SEC. 66. A material allegation in a pleading is one essential to the claim or defense, and which could not be stricken from the pleading without leaving it insufficient.
TITLE X.
Mistakes in Pleadings and Amendments.
So. 67. Mtaterial variances, bow provided for.
68. Immaterial variances, how provided for.
G0. What to be deemed a material variance.
10. Amendments of course.
71. When a party may plead over, after decision on demurrer.
72. Amendments by the court.
13. Amendments after demurrer.
14. Suing a party by a fictitious name, when allowed.
75. No error or defect to be regarded unless it affects substantial riglts.
70. Supplemental complaint, answer or reply.
SEc. 67. No variance between the allegation in a pleading and
the proof shall be deemed material, unless it have actually misled
the adverse party to his prejudice, in maintaining his action or dena.
fence upon the merits. Whenever it shall be alleged that a party
has been so misled, that fact shall be proved to the satisfaction of
the court, and in what respect he has been misled; and thereupon
the court may order the pleading to be amended upon such terms
as shall be just.
SEc. 68. When the variance is not material, as provided in the te my tefc beoudo
last section, the court may direct the fact to be found according to
the evidence, or may order an immediate amendment, without
costs.
SEc. 69. When, however, the allegation of the cause of action or
defense to which the proof is directe is unproved, not in some particular
or particulars only, but in its entire scope and meaning, it
shall not be deemed a case of variance within the two last- sections,
but a failure of proof.
SEc. 70. Any pleading may be once amended by the. party of
course, without costs and without prejudice to the proceedings already
had, at any time before the period for answering it shall expire;
in such case, a copy of the amended pleading shall be served
on the adverse party.
SEC. 71. After the decision upon a demurrer, if it be overruled,
and it appears that such demurrer was interposed in good faith, the
court may in its discretion allow the party to plead over upon such
terms as may be proper. If the demurrer be sustained, either party
may amend any pleading demurred to, upon such terms as may be
just, and he shall serve a copy of the same as amended, on the adverse.
party, within such time as may be prescribed by the court.
SEC. 72. The court may, before or after judgment, in furtherance
of justice, and on such terms as may be proper, amend any pleading
or proceeding, by adding or striking out the name of any party,
or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in
any other respect, or by inserting other allegations material to the
case, when the amendment does not change substantially the claim
or defense, by conforming the pleading or proceeding to the facts
proved.
SEC. 73. The court may likewise in its discretioiand upon such
ejs,'lwrpyb.id te
terms as may be just,'allow an answer or reply to lidiade, or other
act to be done after the time limited by this act, ciry arh order enlarge
such time; and may also, in its discretion, and ulpon such
terms as may be just, at any time within one year after notice thereof, relieve a party froni a judgment, order, or other proceeding
taken against him through his mistake, inadvertnce, surprise, or
excusable neglect.
SEC. 74. When the plaintifff shall be ignorant of Lhe name of a defendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name; and when his true name shall be discov ered, the p leading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.
SEC. 75. The court shall, in every stage of an action, disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which shall not afect the substantial rights of the adverse party; and no judgment shall be reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect.
SEC. 76, The plaintifff and defendant respectively, may be allowed motion, to make a supplemental complaint, answer, or reply, al- leging facts material to the case, occurring after the former coMCo- plaint, answer, or reply. 
TITLE XI.
Provisional Remedy by .Arrest and Bail.
Sec. 17. Arrest on civil process.
'8. When defendant may be arrested ;n civil action.
19. Order of arrest, by whom made.
80, Affidavits to obtain order.
81. Security by plaintifff before order of arrest.
82. Order, when mado, and its form. ,
83. Affidavit and order, to be delivered to sheriff, and copy to defendants.
84. Arrest, how made.
85. Defendant to be dis charged on bail or deposite.
86. Bail, how given.
87, 88. Surrender of defendant.
89. Bail, how proceeded against.
90. Bail, how exonerated.
91. Sheriff, when to file order of arrest and undertaking. Plaintiff must except to
undertaking within ten days.
992&. Notice of justification. New undertaking, if other baiL
93. Qualifications of bail.
94, 95. Justification and allowance of bail.
96. Deposit of money with sheriff.
97. Payment of money by sheriff into court.
08. Substituting bail for deposit.
99. Money deposited, how applied, or disposed of.
100. Sheriff, when liable as bail; and his discharge from liability.
101. Proceedings on judgment against sheril
102. Bail liable to sheriff.
103. Foes of shoriff for keeping prisoner; and liability of plaintifff therefore.
104. Prisoner may be discharged on plaintifff neglecting after demand, to pay sheriff's
fees.
105. Motion to vacate order of arrest, or reduce bail; and affidavits on motion.
100. Order of arrest when vacated; bail when reduced.
SEC. 77. No person shall be arrested in an action at law, except as prescribed by this act, but this provision shall not apply to pro- ceedings for contempt.
SEC. 78. The defendant may be arrested as hereinafter prescribed in the following cases: 1. In an action for the recovery of damages on a cause of action not arising out of contract, when the defendant i. not aresident of
the territory, or is about.to remove therefrom, or when' the action
is for a willful injury to person or to property, the defendant knowing
the property to belong to another.
2. In an action for the recovery of money, or damages on a cause
of action arising upon contract, express or implied, when the 'defendant
is about to depart freun the territory, with intent to defraud
his creditors.
3. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money or property
embezzled, or fraudulently mishpplied, or converted to his own use
by a public officer or officers of a corporation, or an attorney, factor,
broker, agent or clerk, in the course of his employment as such; or
by any other person in a fiduciary capacity, or for misconduct or
neglect in office, or in a professional employment.
4. In an action to recover the possession of personal property
unjustly detained, when the property, or any part thereof has been
concealed, removed, or disposed of, so that it cannot be found or
taken by the sheriff, and with intent that it.should not be so found
or taken, or with the intent to deprive the plaintifff of the benefit
thereof.
5. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting
the debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought,
or in concealing or disposing of the property, for the taking, detention,
or conversion of which the action is brought.
6. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his property,
or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors.
But no female shall be arrested in any action, except for a willful
injury to person or property.
SEC. 79. An order for the arrest of the defendant shall be ob- tained from a judge of any district court in this territory.
SEC. 80. The order may be made when it shall appear to the
judge, by the affidavit Qf the plaintifff, or any other person, that a
sufficient cause of action exists, and that the case is one of those
mentioned in section seventy-eight, which affidavit shall be sup.
ported by the additional affidavit of some other disinterested person,
that the case is one of those mentioned in section seventyeight.
The affidavits shall be either positive, or upon information
or belief, they shall state the-facts upon which the information and
belief are founded. If an order of arrest be made, the affidavits
shall be filed with the clerk of the court in which the action is
brought.
SEc. 81. Before making the order the judge shall require a written
undertaking on the part of the plaintifff with or without sureties,
to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff
will pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all
damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceed.'
ing the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least
two hundred dollars. If the undertaking be executed by the plaintifff
without sureties, he shall annex thereto an affidavit that he is a
resident and householder, or freeholder within the territory, and
worth double the sum specified'in the undertaking, over all his
debts and liabilities.
SEC. 82. The order may be made to accompany the summons, or
at any time afterwards before judgment. It shall require the
sheriff of the county where the defendant may be found forthwith
to arrest him and hold him to bail in a specified sum, and to return the order at a time therein mentioned to the clerk of the court in
which the action is pending.
SEC. 83. The affidavit and order of arrest shall be delivered to the sheriff, who upon arresting the defendant shall deliver to him a copy thereof.
SEC. 84. The sheriff shall execute the order by arresting the de- fendant, and keeping him in custody until discharged by law.
SEc. 85. The defendant at any time bef7o re execution,> shall be discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail, or upon de- positing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest as provided in
this act.
SEC. 86. The defendant may give bail, by causing a written un- dertaking to be executed in favor of the plaintifff by two or more
sufficient sureties, stating their places of residence, to the effect that
he defendant shall at all times render himself amenable to the process
of the court, duiring the pendency of the action, and to such as
may be issued to enforce the judgment therein, or if he be arrested
for the cause mentioned in the fourth subdivision of section seventyeight,
an undertaking to the same effect as that provided by section
one hundred and twelve.
SEC. 87. At any time before a failure to comply with the under. taking, the bail may surrender the defendant in their exoneration, or he may surrender himself to the sheriff of the county where he
was arrested, in the following manner:
1. A certified copy of the bail shall be delivered to the sheriff,
who shall detain the defendant in his custody thereon as upon an
order of arrest, and shall by a certificate in writing acknowledge the
surrender.
2. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking and sheriff's
certificate, a judge of the district court may upon a notice to the
plaintifff of eight days, with a copy of the certificate, order that the
bail be exonerated, and on filing the order and the papers used on
said application, they shall be exonerated accordingly. But this section shall not apply to an arrest for cause mentioned in the
fourth subdivision of section seventy-eight, so as to discharge the
bail from an undertaking given to the effect. provided by section
one hundred and twelve.
SEC. 88. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail at any time and place, before -they are finally charged, may themselves
arrest him, or by a written authority, indorsed on a certified
copy of the undertaking, may empower the sheriff or any other
person of suitable age amid discretion to do so.
SEC. 89. In case of the failure to. comply with the undertaking the bail may be proceeded against by action only. 

SEC. 90. The bail may be exonerated either by the death of the or his imprisonment in the penitentiary, or by his legal discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the
process, or by his surrender to the sheriff of ihe county where he
was arrested, in execution thereof, within twenty days after the
commencement of the action against the bail, or within such further
time as may be granted by the court.
SEC. 91. Within the time limited for that purpose, the sheriff
shall file the order of arrest in the offlce of the clerk of the court
in which the action is pending, with his return indorsed thereon,
together with a certified copy of the undertaking of the bail; or if
the defendant be arrested, and bail be not given, he shall file a certoundertatified copy of the order of arrest, with his return indorsed thereon.
The plaintifff, within ten days thereafter, may serve upon the sheriff notice that he does not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to
have accepted it, and the sheriff shall be exonerated from liability.
If no notice be served within ten days, the original undertaking
shall be filed with the clerk of the court.
SEC. 92. Within ten days after the receipt of notice, the sheriff
or defendant may give to the plaintifff, or his attorney, notice of the
justification of the same, or other bail (specifying the places of residence
of the latter,) before a judge of the district court, or the clerk
of the court in which the action is pending, at a specified time and
place, the time to be not less than five nor more than ten days
thereafter, except by consent of parties. In case other bail be
given, there shall be a new undertaking in the form prescribed in section eighty-six.
SEc. 93. The qualifications of bail shall be as follows:
1. Each of them shall be a resident of the territory; but no
counsellor or attorney at law, sheriff, clerk of the district court, or
other officer of such court, shall be permitted to become bail in any
action.
2. Each of them shall be worth the amount specified in the order
of arrest, or the amount to which the order may be reduced as
provided in this act, over and above all debts and liabilities, and
exclusive of property exempt from execution; but the judge or
clerk of the court on justification may allow more than two sureties
to justify severally in amounts less than that expressed in the
order, if the whole justification be equivalent to that of two sufficient
bail.
SEc. 94. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail shall
attend before the judge or clerk of the court, at the time and place
mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on oath, on the
part of the plaintifff, touching his sufficiency, in such manner as the
judge or clerk in his discretion may think proper. The examination,
shall be reduced to writing and subscribed by the bail, if required
by the.plaintifff.
SEC. 95. If the judge or clerk find the bail stifficient, lie shall
annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse his allowance
thereon, and cause them to be filed with the clerk of the court in
which the action is brought; and the sheriff shall thereupon be
exonerated from liability.
SEC. 96. The defendant may at the time of his arrest, instead of
giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned in the
order. If the amount of the bail be reduced as provided in this
act, the defendant may deposit such amount instead of giving bail.
In either case the sheriff shall give the defendant a certificate of
the deposit made, and the defendant shall be discharged out of
custody.
SEC. 97. The sheriff shall immediately after the deposit pay the
same into court, and take from the clerk receiving the same two
certificates of such payment, the one of which he shall deliver or transmit to the plaintifff or his attorney, and the other to 'the defendant.
For any default in making such payment, the same proceedings
may be had on the official bond of the sheriff to collect
the um deposited, as in other cases of delinquency.
SEc. 98. If money be deposited, as provided in the last two sections, bail may be given and justified upon notice, as prescribed in section eighty-six, at any time before judgment, and on the filing
of the undertaking and justification with the clerk, the money
deposited shall be refunded by such clerk to the defendant.
SEC. 99. When money shall have been so deposited, if it remain on deposit at the time of an order or judgment for the payment of money to the.plaintifff, the clerk shall, under the direction of the
court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and after satisfying
the judgment shall refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant.
If the judgment be in favor of the defendant, the clerk shall refund
to him the whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied.
SEC. 100. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or be rescued, the sheriff shall be liable as bail; but he may discharge himself from such liability by the giving and justification of bail at any time before judgment.
SEC. 101. If a judgment be recovered figainst the sheriff upon his liability as bail, aid an execution thereon be returned unsatis- fled, in whole or in part, the same proceedings may be had on his
official bond for the recovery of the whole or any deficiency, as in
other cases of delinquency.
SEC. 102. The bail taken upon the arrest, shall, unless they justify, or other bail be given or justified, be liable to the sheriff by action for any damages which he may sustain by reason of such
omission.
SEC. 103. The fees which shall be allowed to the sheriff for the food and maintenance of any defendant arrested under the pro- of this act, shall be at the rate of one dollar and twenty-five
cents per day for every day that the defendant shall remain in
custody; and the plaintifff shall be liable in the first instance for
such fees, and if required by the sheriff, shall pay the same weekly
in advance; and such fees so paid shall be added to the costs
taxed or'accruing in the case, and be collected as other costs.
SEC. 104. If the plaintifff shall neglect to pay the fees mentioned in thfe last preceding section for three days after a demand of pay. ment, the sheriff may discharge the defendant out of custody. 

SEC. 105. A defendant arrested may, at any time before the justification of bail, apply to the judge who made the order, or the court in which the action is pending, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, to vacate the order of arrest, or reduce the amount of bail.
If the application be made upon affidavits on part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits or other proofs, in addition to those on which the order of arrest
was made.
SEC. 106. If, upon such application, it shall satisfactorily appear that there was not sufficient cause for the arrest, the order shall be vacated; or if it satisfactorily appear that the bail was fixed too high, the amount shall be reduced.
TITLE XII.
Provisional Remedyfor the Claim aznd Delivery of Personal Property,
107. Delivery of personal property, when it may be claimed.
108. Affidavit and its requisites.
109. Requisition to sheriff, to take and deliver the property.
110. Security on part of the plaintifff and justification.
111. Exception to sureties and proceedings thereon, or on failure to except.
112. Defendant when entitled to redelivery.
113. Justification of defendant's sureties.
114. Qualification and justification of sureties.
115. Property, how taken.when concealed in building or enclosure.
116. Property, how kept.
117. Claim of property by third person.
118. Notice of affidavit, when and where to be filed.
SEc. 107. The plaintifff in an action to recover the possession of
personal property, may at the time of issuing the summons, or at
any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of -such pro- perty as provided in this chapter.
SEc. 108. When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be made
by the plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, showing:
1. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed, (particularly
describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the possession
thereof by virtue of a special property therein, the facts in respect
to which, shall be set forth.
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant.
3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, acecording to his
best knowledge, information and belief.
4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment or
fine, pursuaint to a statute, or seized under an execution or attachment
against the property of the plaintifff, or if so seized, that it is
by statute, exempt from such seizure; and,
5.' The actual value of the prolierty.
SEC. 109. The plaintifff may thereupon, by an indorsement in
writing upon the affidavit, require the sheriff of the county, where
the property claimed may be, to take the same from the defendant and deliver it to the plaintifff.
SEC. 110. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and niotice, with a
written undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties,
approved by the sheriff, to the effect that they are bound in double
the value of theeproperty as stated in the affidavit, for the prosecu- tion of the action, for the return of the property to the defendant,
if return thereof be adjudged, and foi the payment to him of such
sum as.may, for any cause, be recovered against the plain tiff, the
sheriff shall forthwith take the property described in the affidavit,
if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain
it in his custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the defendant
a copy of the affidavit, notice and undertaking, by delivering
the same to him personally, if he can be found, or to his agent
from whose possession the property is taken; or, if neither can be
found, by leaving them-at the usual place of abode of either, with
some person of suitable age and discretion; or, if neither have any
known place of abode, by putting them in the post office,. directed
to the defendant at the post office nearest to him.
SEc. 111. The defendant may, within three days after the ser- vice of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the sheriff that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fail I to do so, he shall be deemed to have waived all objectiop to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify on notice in like manner as upon bail on arrest. And the sheriff shall-be re. sponsible for the sufficiency of the sureties, until the objection to
them is either waived, as above provided, or until they shall justify;
or new sureties shall be substituted and justify.. If the defendant
except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the prbperty as
provided in the next section.
SEc. 112. At any time before the delivery of the property to the plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of plaintifff, require the return thereof upon giving to the sheriff written undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, to
the effect that they are bound in double the value of the property,
as stated in the affidavit of the plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to
the plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to
him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against the
defendant. If a return of the property be not so required within.
three days after the taking and service of notice to the defendant,
it shall be delivered to the plaintifff, except as provided in section
on6 hundred and seventeen.
SEc. 113. The defendant's sureties, upon a notice to the plaintiffl or his attorney of not less than two, nor more than six days, shall before a judge of the district court, or the clerk of the court in which the action is pending, in the same manner as upon bail on
arrest; upon such justification, the sheriff shall deliver the property
to the defendant. The sheriff shall be responsible for the defendant's
sureties until they justify, or until justification is completed
or expressly waived, and may retain the property until that time;
but if they or others in their place fail to justify at the time and
place appointed, he shall deliver the property to the plaintifff.
SEC. 114. The qualification of suicties and their justification shall be as prescribed by sections ninety-three and ninety-four in respect bail upon an order of arrest 
SEC. 115. If the property or any part thereof be concealed in building or enclosure, the sheriff shalt publicly demand its delivery If it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken open, and take the property into his possession; and, if necessary, he may call to his aid the power of his county.
SEC. 116. When the sheriff shall have taken property, as.in this chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to the party, entitled thereto upon receiving his lawful fees for
taking, and his necessary expenses for keeping the same.
SEC. 117. If the property taken be claimed by any other person than, the defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title thereto, or his right to the possession thereof, stating the
grounds of such title or right, and serve the same upon the sheriff
before the delivery of the property to the plaintifff, the sheriff shall
not be bound to keep the property, or deliver it to the plaintifff,
unless the plaintifff; on demand of him or his agent, shall indemnify
the sheriff against such claim by an undertaking, -executed by two
sufficient sureties, accompanied by their affidavits that they are
each worth double the value of the property as specified in the affidavit
of the plaintifff, over and abovo their debts and liabilities, exclusive
of property exempt from execution, and freeholders or
householddrs of the county.. And no claim to such property by
any other person than the defendant or his agent, shall be valid
against the sheriff unless made as aforesaid; and notwithstanding
such claim, when so made, he may retain the property a reasonable
time to demand such indemnity.
SEC. 118. The sheriff shall file the notice and affidavit, with his
proceedings thereon, with the'clerk of the court in which the action
is pending, within twenty days after taking the property mentioned
therein; or, if the clerk reside in another county, shall mail or forward
the same within that time.
TITLE XIII,
Provisional Remedy by Attachment.
110. When plaintifff may have property attached.
120. Writ of attachment, when and by whom granted.
121. Affidavit to be attached to writ: undertaking by plaintifff.
122. Writ, to whom directed and what to contain.
123. What property may be attached. 124. Writ, how executed.
125. Proceedings when real estate is attached.
1.20. Third persons having property, &c., of defendant in their possession, when
liable to plaintifff.
121. When certain persons must designate defendant's interest in corporation, to
sheriff.
128. Perishable property must be sold: other property retained to answer judgment.
129. When sheriff may deliver property to defendant.
130. Action upon undertaking when a defense.
131. Sheriff, when to summon a jury to try the right of property.
132. Order of examination, when to issue to persons not parties to suit.
133. When plaintifff may exhibit interrogatories to garnishee.
134. Garnishee to answer plaintifff's interrogatories under oath.
135. Judgment against garnishee, not final until final judgment against defendant.
136. Plaintiff may except to garnishee's answer. Answer, on what terms
amended.
137. Denial of answer by plaintifff: trial of issue: answer, when doomed true if
not excepted to or denied.
138. When judgment may be given against garnishee, although his answer be not
excepted or denied.
139. How garnishee may discharge himself. from liability.
140. Debts not due defendant may be attached.
141. Costs between plaintifff and garnishee the same as in other actions.
142. Claimant of attached property may be examined.
143.. Judgment, how satisfied.
144. Satisfaction of attachment and return of property.
145. Judgment for defendant and return of property,
146. Discharge by undertaking of attachment, and return of property..
141. Nature of undertaking by defendants.
148. Defendant may move to vacate attachment.
149. Plaintiff may oppose motion by affidavit.
150. Sheriff when to return writ.
SEC. 119. In an action for the recovery of money, the plaintifff,
te of issuing the summons, or at any time afterwards, may
at the timeofisigtesm osoraan ieatrw dmy
have the property of the defendant attached in the manner herein- after prescribed, as a security for the satisfaction of such judgment
as he may recover.
SEC. 120. A writ of attachment shall be issued by the clerk of the court in which the action is brought, whenever the plaintifff,
his agent or attorney shall make affidavit that a cause of action exists against such defendant, specifying the amount of such claim over and above all legal set-offs, and the nature thereof, and that as the aiant verily believes, the defendant is either,
1. A foreign corporation; or
2. That he is not a resident of this territory, or has departed
therefrom with the intent to delay or defraud his creditors, or to
avoid the service of a summons; or
3. That he has assigned, secreted, or disposed of, or is about to
assign, secrete, or dispose of his property, or any part thereof, with
the intent to delay or defraud his creditors; or
4. That the debt was fraudulently contracted.
SEC. 121. The affidavit required by the last section shall be attached to the writ upon issuing the same. Before executing such writ, the sheriff to whom it is directed shall require a written
undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with one or more sureties, in a sum not less than two hundred dollars nor exceeding the amount claimed by the plaintifff, to the effect that if the defendant
recover judgment, the plaintifff will pay all costs that may be
awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain
by reason of the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in
the undertaking.
SEc. 122. The writ shall be directed to the sheriff of any county in which property of such defendant may be, and shall require him to attach and safely keep all the property of such defeidant within his county not exempt from execution, or so much thereof
as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's demand, the amount of
which shall be stated in conformity with the complaint, together
with costs and expenses. Several writs may be issued at the same
time to the sheriffs of different counties.
SEc. 123. The rights or shares which the defendant may have in the stock of any corporation or company, together with the ini- terest and profits thereon, all debts due such defendant, and all other property, real or personal, in this territory, of such defendant, not exempt from execution, may be attached, and if judgment be
recovered against him, be sold or collected to satisfy the judgment
and execution.
SEc. 124. The shSeErCif.1f2 t4oo Twwheshohoemimff thhee wwirt it is directed and delivered, shall execute the same without delay, as fos ldlioecwtds : an deive e, 1. Real property shall be attached by leaving with the occupant
thereof, or if there be no occupant, in a conspicuous place thereon,
a copy of the writ and affidavit certified by the sheriff,
, 2. Personal property capable of manual delivery to the sheriff,
shall be attached by taking it into his custody.
3. Stock or shares, or interest in stock or shares of any corporation
or company, shall be attached by leaving with the president
or other head of the same, or the secretary, cashier, or managing
agent thereof, a copy of the writ and affidavit, and a notice that the
stock or interest of the defendant is attached in pursuance of isuch writ.
4. Debts and credits, and other personal property not capable of
manual delivery, shall be attached by leaving with the person
owing such debts, or having in his possession or under his control
such credits, or other personal property, a copy of the writ- and
affidavit, and a notice that the debts owing by him to the defendant,
or the credits and other personal property in- his possession or
under his control belonging to the defendant, are attached in pursuance
of such writ.
The sheriff shall note on the writ the day, month and year when
the attachment was made, and shall make a full inventory of the
property attached, and return the same, together with the undertaking
of the plaintiff, with the writ of attachment.
SEC. 125. If real estate be attached by virtue of any writ of
attachment, the sheriff shall make a certified copy of said writ and
Of his return thereon, and deliver'it within ten days'from the time
of making such attachment, to the recorder of the county in which
such real estate is situated, who shall file and record the same in a
book to be kept for that purpose in the recorder's office.. When
so filed' within ten days, the same shall be and continue a lien from
the time of making the attachment, otherwise it shall be and continue
a lien from the time it is filed, on all real estate mentioned or
described in the return of the sheriff in such county, until the same
shall be discharged; and when the said lien shall be discharged by
the order of the court in which the action is pending, or by satisfaction
of the judgment rendered in the suit, it shall be the duty of the
recorder, when requested, to record the satisfaction piece, or transcript
of the record of such order, in a book to be kept for recording
such liens, and he shall enter on the margin of the page or
pages where the said writ and return are so recorded, a minute of
such discharge or satisfaction.
SEC. 126. All persons having in their possession or under their
rcontrol, any credits or other personal property belonging to the
defendant, or owing any debts to the defendant at the time of
service upon-them of a copy of the writ, affidavit and notice, as
provided in section one hundred and twenty-four, shall, unless such
property be delivered up or transferred, or such debts be paid to
the sheriff, be liable to the plaintifff for the amount of such credits,
property or debts, until the attachment be discharged, or any judgment
recovered by him be satisfied.
SEC. 127. When the sheriff, with a writ of attachment against
the defendant, shall apply to any person mentioned in the third and fourth subdivisions of section one hundred and twenty-four, for the
purpose of attaching the property mentioned therein, such person
shall furnish him with a certificate designating the number of shares
of th6 defendant in the stock of the corporation or .company, with
any dividend or encumbrance thereon, or the amount and description
of the property or credits held by such corporation, company,
or person for the defendant, or the debt owing to the defendant.
If such person refuse to do so, or if his certificate or statement be
unsatisfactorv to the plaintifff, he may be required by an order of
the court in which the action is brought, or a judge thereof,.to attend
before such court or judge, and be examined on oath concerning
the same, as hereinafter prescribed in this chapter; and disobedience to the order may be punished as a contempt.
SEC. 128. If any of the property attached be perishable, the
sheriff shall sell .the same in the manner in, which property is sold- on execution. The proceeds thereof, and other property attached,
shall be retained by him to answer any judgment that may be re- in the action, unless it be delivered over as prescribed in the next section, or unless sooner subjected to execution upon another
judgment, recovered previous to the issuing of the writ of attachment.
Debts and credits attached may be collected by the sheriff,
if the same'can be done without suit, and his receipt shall be a sufficient
discharge for the amount paid.
SEc. 129. The sheriff may deliver any of the property attached to the defendant, or to any other person claiming it and in whose possession it was attached, upon his giving a written undertaking therefore, executed by two'or more sufficient sureties, engaging to
re-deliver it, or pay the value thereof to the sheriff, to whom execution
upon a judgment obtained by the plaintifff in that action may
be issued.
SEc. 130. If an action be brought upon such undertaking against the principal or his sureties, it shall be a defense that the property for which the undertaking was given, did not at the exe- cution of the writ of attachment, belong to the defendant against
whom it was issued.
SEC. 131. If any personal property attached, be claimed 'by a person as his property, the sheriff may summon a jury to try the validity of such claim, and the same proceedings shall be had thereon with the like effect, as in case of seizure upon execution. 

SEc. 132. Whenever the sheriff with a writ of attachment against the defendant, shall apply to any person mentioned in section one ,hundred and twenty-four, for the purpose of attaching the personal property therein mentioned, and elh person shall deny that he has
any personal property of the defendant, or shall refuse to give the
certificate required in section one hunched and twenty-seven, or if
such certificate be unsatisfactory to the plaintifff, he may be required
by an order of the court in which the action-is brought, or a judge
thereof, to attend before such court, or judge at a time therein
stated, not less than ten days thereafter, and be examined on oath
concerning the same.
SEC. 133. At any time after the allowance of such order, and before such person shall be required to atgend,. the plaintifff Myrico may exhibit written allegations and interrogatories touching the property,
stock or credits of the defendafit, in the possession of or held
by such person as garnishee, or debts owing to the defendant by
him, and such garnishee shall be required to make full, direct and
true answers to the same on oath.
SEC. 134. On the day when the garnishee shall be required to attend before the court or judge, he shall exhibit on oath his answer to the allegations and interrogatories of the plaintifff, unless for good
cause shown a further time shall be allowed; in default of such answer,
the plaintifff may take judgment by default against him, or the
scourt or judge may upon motion compel him to answer by attachment
of his body.
SEc. 135. Such judgment by default may be proceeded on to final judgment, in like manner as in actions against defendants, but final judgment shall be rendered against the garnishee until there
shall be final judgment against the defendant, and in no case for. a
greater amount than that sworn to by the plaintifff with interest and
costs.
SEC. 136. The plaintifff may except to the, answer of any garnieisee'
shee for insufficiency, and if the same shall be adjudged insufficient,
the court.or judge.may allow the garnishee to amend his answer, in
such time and on such terms as shall be just, or the plaintifff may
take judgment by default, or move the court or judge to attach the
body of the garnishee to compel a sufficient answer.
SEC. 137. The plaintifff may deny the answer of the garnishee,
in whole or in part, and the issues shall be tried as ordinary issues
between plaintifff and defendant. If the answer be not excepted to
or denied, in such time as the'court or judge may deem proper, it
shall be taken to be true and sufficient.
SEC. 138. If by the answer not excepted to, nor denied, or if
upon trial it shall appear that the garnishee is possessed of property
or effects of the defendant, or is indebted to the defeudant, the value
of such property or effects, or if the debt, being ascertained, judgment
-may be rendered against the garnishee for the proper amount
in money, and in such case the court may make him a reasonable
allowance for his trouble in answering, to be paid out of the fund
confessed in his hands.
SEC. 139. Whenever any property, effects, money or debts, be- longing or owing to the defendant, shall be confessed or found by
the court, judge or jury, to be in the possession of the garnishee, he
may at any time before final judgment, discharge himself by delivering
the same to the sheriff.
SEC. 140. Debts not yet due to the defendant may be attached,
but no execution shall be awarded against the garnishee for such
debts until they shall become due.
SEC. 141. In all cases of controversy between the plaintifff and
garnishee, the partiesmay be adjudged to pay or recover costs, as
in ordinary cases between plaintifff and defendant.
SEC. 142. The defendant or claimant may be required to attend
before the court judge or urfor the proeof giving ayneceseomined."
sary information respecting the property attached, and may be
thereupon examined on oath concerning the same.
SEc. 143. If judgment be recovered by the plaintifff against the
defendant in such action, the sheriff shall satisfy the same out of
the property attached by him, if it be sufficient for that purpose:
1. By paying to the plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of perishable
1sroolpde brtyy him, or of any debts or credits collected by.
him, or so much as shall be necessary to satisfy the judgment.
2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall, have been
issued on the judgment, he shall sell under the execution, so much
of the property, real or personal, as may be necessary to satisfy the
balance, if enough for that purpose remain in his hands; and in
case of the sale of any rights or shards in the stock of a corporation
or company, the sheriff shall execute t he purchaser a certificate
of the sale, and the purchaser a certificate of the sale, and the purchaser
shall thereupon have all the rights and privileges in respect
thereto which were had by the defendant. Notices of the sales
shall be given, and the sales conducted as in other cases of sales on execution.
SEc. 144. If, after selling all the property attached by him re. maining in his hands and applying the proceeds to the payment of judgment and costs, any balance shall remain due, the sheriff shall proceed to collect such balance as upon an execution in other
cases. Whenever the judgment and all the costs of the proceedings
shall have been paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable demand,
shall deliver over to the defendant the residue of the attached property,
or the proceeds thereof.
SEC. 145. If the defendant recover judgment against the plain- any undertaking received in the action, all the proceeds of sales, money collected by the sheriff; and all the- property attached remaining in the sheriff's hands, shall be delivered to the defendant
or his agent, and'the order of attachment shall be discharged.
SEc. 146. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in the action, he may apply, upon reasonable notice, to the plaintifff to the or judge for an order to discharge the attachment upon the execution of the undertaking mentioned in the next section; and if the application be granted, all the proceeds of sales, and monies
collected by the sheriff, and all the property attached remaining in
his hands, shall be released from the attachment and delivered to
the defendant.
SEC. 147. UIon such application, the defendant shall deliver to the court or judge an undertaking executed by at least two sure- ties, approved by the court or judge, to the effect that the sureties
will, on demand, pay to the plaintifff the amount of the judgment'
that may be recovered against the defendant in the action. The
sureties may be required to justify, on application to the court or
judge, and the property attached shall not be released from the attachment
without their justificatibn, if it be required.
SEc. 148. The defendant may also, at any time before the time for answering expires, apply on motion to the court or judge to discharge the attachment, on the ground that the writ was impro- perly issued.
SEC. 149. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of . the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to those on which the writ of attachmhent was issued. If upon such application it shall
satisfactorily appear that such writ was improperly issued, it shall
be discharged.
SEc. 150. When the writ of attachment shall be fully executed or discharged, the sheriff shall return the same, with his proceed- ings thereon, to the court in which the action was brought.
CHAPTER I.
OF THE TRIAL AND JUDGMENT IN ACTIONS AT LAW, ISSUES AND
THE MODE OF TRIAL.
TITLE I. Of Issues.
TITLE II. Trial by Jury.
TITLE III. Of the Verdict.
TITLE IV. Of Trial by the Court.
TITLE V. Of D -a I by -Referees.
TITLE V. Of Exceptions.
TITLE VI. New Tial.
TITLE VIII. Of General Provisions.
TITLE IX. Of Judgments in General.
TITLE X. Of Judgment upon failure toAnswer.
TITLE XI. Of Judment by Confessi .
TITLE XII. Of Submitting a Controversy without Action.
TITLE XIII. Of the -21anne f giving and en i Jdgment.
TITLE I.
Of Issues.
SEO. 1. The different kinds of issues.
2. Issue of law.
3. Issue of fact.
4. On issues both law and fact, the issue of law to i.e first law.
5. Issues how tried.
6. Motion to postpone trial, on the absence of witnesses how made.
SEC. 1. Issues arise upon the pleadings when a fact or conclusueos..
sion of law is maintained by the one party, and controverted by the
other. They are of two kinds:
1. Of law; and,
2. Of fact.
SEC. 2. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint,
answer, or reply, or to some part thereof.
SEC. 3. An issue of fact arises.
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, controverted by
the answer; or
2. Upon new matter or a set-off controverted by the reply; or
3. Upon new matter in the reply.
SEC. 4. Issues, both of law and of fact may arise upon differtrica.
sent parts of the pleadings in the same action. In such cases the
issues of law shall be first tried, unless the court otherwise direct.
SEC. 5. An issue of law shall be tried, by the court, unless retried.
ferred upon consent as provided by statute. An issue of fact shall
be tried by a jury, unless a jury tribl be waived, or a reference be
ordered as provided by statute..
SEC. 6. A motion to postpone a trial on the ground of the abpostpone
hl e ~' h
s0110 Of evidence, shall only be made upon afidavit showing the
materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained, and what dilihow
gence has been used to procure it, and also the name and residence
of the witness or witnesses. The court may also require the mov- ing party to state upon affidavit, the. evidence which he expects to
obtain, and if the adverse party thereupon admit that such eridence
would be given, and that it be considered as actually given
on the trial, or offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall
not be postponed.
TITLE II.
Of Trial by Jury.
7. Jurors how chosen.
8. Challenges how made.
9. Challenge for cause, for what taken.
10. Challenge for cause, to be tried by court. .
* 11. Oath or affirmation to be administered to jurors.
1. Ballots when to be returned to the box.
1'. Power of court over jurors.
14. When juror is taken sick, court how to proceed.
15. When jury retire under charge of an officer; duties of officer having charge
of jury.
16. Papers which the jury may refer to.
17. Jury may return to court for information.
SEC. 7. When the action is called for trial, the clerk shall pre- pare separate ballots, containing the names of the jurors summoned who have appeared and not been excused, and deposit them in a
box. He shall then 6raw from the box twelve names, and the
persons whose names are drawn shall constitute the jury. If the
ballots become exhausted before the jury is complete, or if from
any cause a juror or jurors be excused or discharged, the sheriffi
under the direction of the court, shall summon from the bystanders
or citizens of the county, so many qualified persons as may be necessary
to complete the jury. The jury shall consist of twelve persons,
unless the parties consent to a less number. The parties may
consent to any number not* less than three, and such consent shall
be entered by the clerk on the m'autes of the trial.
SEC. 8. Either party may challenge the jurors, but when tbere are several parties on either side, they shall join in a challenge before
it can be made. The challenges shall be to individual jurors,
and shall be peremptory, or for cause. Each party shall be entitled
to three peremptory challenges.
SEc. 9. Challenges for cause may be taken on one or more of the following grounds: 1. A want of any-of the qualifications prescribed by statute to
render a person competent as a juror:
2. Consanguinity or affinity within the thirdi degree to either
party :
3. Standing in the, relation of guardian and ward, master and
servant, eniployer and clerk, or principal and agent to either party;
or being a member of the family of either party; or a partner in
business with either party;. or being security on any undertaking
or obligation for either party :
4. Having served as a juror, or been a witness on a previous
trial between the same parties for the same cause of action:
5. Interest on the part of the juror in the event of the action, or
in the main question involved in the action:
6. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief
as to the merits of the action:
7. The existence of a state of mind in the juror evincing enmity
against either party.
SEc. 10. Challenges for cause shall be tried by the court. The
uror challenged, and any other person as a witness, may be examined
on the trial of the challenge.
SEC. 11. As soon as the jury is completed, an oath or affirmation
shall be administered to the jurors in substance that they, each of
them, will well and truly try the matter in issue between the
plaintifff and the defendant, and a true verdict give according to
the evidence.
SEC. 12. When the jury is completed and sworn, the ballots
containing the names of the jurors sworn shall be laid aside till the
jury so sworn is discharged, and then they shall be returned to
the box; and every ballot drawn containing the name of a juror
not so sworn, shall be returned to the box as soon as the jury is
completed.
SEC. 13. The jurors may be kept together in charge of a proper ' officer, or may, in the discretion of the court, at any time befor e the
submission of cause to the jury, be permitted to separate; in either
case they may be admonished by the court that it is their duty
not to converse with any other person, or among themselves, on
any subject connected with the trial, or to express any opinion
thereon until the case is finally submitted to them.
SEC. 14. If, after the impanneling of the jury, and before a vercharged;
dict, a juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform his duty,
the court may order him to be discharged. In that case, unless
the parties agree to proceed.with the other jurors, a new juror may
be sworn and the trial begin anew; or the jury may be discharged,
and a new jury then or afterwards impanneled.
SEC. 15. After hearing the charge of the court, the jury may
either decide in the court room or retire for deliberation. If they
retire, they shall be kept together in a room provided for them,
or some other convenient place, under the charge of one or more
Officers, until they agree upon their verdict or are discharged.
The officer shall, to the utmost of his ability, keep the jury together,
separate from other persons; he shall not suffer any communication
to be made to them, or make any himself, unless by
order of the court, except to ask them if they have agreed upon
their verdict; and he shall not, before the verdict is rendered,
communicate to any person the state of their deliberations, or the
verdict agreed upon..
SEC. 16. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury may take with
them the pleadings in the cause, and all papers (except depositions)
which have been received as evidence on the trial, or copies of
such parts of public records or private documents given in evidence
as ought not, in the opinion of the court, to be taken from
the person having them in possession. They may also take with
them notes of the testimony or other proceedings on the trial taken
by themselves, or any of them; but none taken by any other person,
except by consent of the parties.
SEC. 17. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there be
a disagreement between them as to any part of the testimony, or if they desire to be informed of any point of law arising in the
cause, they may require the officer to conduct them into court.
Upon their being brought into court, the information required
shall be given in the presence of, or after notice to the parties or
counsel.
TITLE III.
Of the Vercdct.
Sec. 18. Verdict is either general, or special.
19. Verdict in action to recover personal property.
20. When jury may render special or general verdict.
21. When special verdict controls general verdict.
22. In action for the recovery of money, jury when to assess damages.
23. Informal verdict how corrected.
SEC. 18. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general verdict is that by which the jury pronounce generally upon or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintifff or defendant.
A special verdict is that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment to the court.
SEC. 19. In an action for the recoVry of specific personal pro- perty, if the property have not been delivered to the plaintifff or the defendant by his answer claim a returh thereof, the jury shall asAss the value of the property, if their verdict be in favor of the
plaintifff, or if they find in favor of the defendant, and that he is
entitled to a return thereof, and may at the same time assess the
damages, if any are claimed in the complaint or answer, which the
prevailing party has sustained by reason of the detention, or taking
and withholding such property.
SEC. 20. In every action for the recovery of money only, or specific real property, the jury, in their discretion, may render a general or special verdict. In all other cases the court may direct jury to find a special verdict in writing upon all or any of the issues; and in all cases may instruct them, if they render a general
verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in
writing, and may direct a written finding thereon. The special
verdict or finding shall be filed with the clerk and entered upon
the minutes.
SEC. 21. When a special finding of facts shall be inconsistent the general verdict, the former shall control the latter, and the court shall give judgment accordingly. SEC. 22. When a verdict is found for the plaintifff in an action for recovery of money, or for the defendant when a set-off for the recovery of money is established beyond the amount of the plaintifff's clailh rs established, the jury shall also assess the amount recovery; they may also, under the direction of the court, assess
the amount of the recovery when the court give judgment for the
plaintifff on the answer.
SEC. 23. If the verdict be informal, it may be corrected by the jury under the advice of the court, or the jury may be again sent out. When rendered, the verdict shall be entered by the clerk on his minutes.
TITLE IV.
Z'dal by the Court
24. Trial by jury may be waived.
25. When question of fact is tried by court, decision when and how given.
SEC. 24. Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to
an issue of fact, in actions on contract, and with the assent of the
court in other actions, in the manner following:
1. By failing to appear at the trial;
2. By written consent, in person, or by attorney, filed with the
clerk;
3. By oral corisent in open court, entered in the minutes.
SEC. 25. Upon the trial of an issue of fact by the court, its decision shall be given ill writing and filed with the clerk within
twenty days after the court at which the trial took place. In. giving
the decision, the facts found, and the conclusions of law shall.
be separately stated. Judgment upon the decision shall be catered
accordingly.
TITLE V.
Trial by Referees.
SEO. 20. All trials referable by consent.
27. When reference may be compulsorily ordered.
28. Number of referees, and how chosen.
29. Qualification of referees chosen by court.
30. Trial by reforees, how conducted, report of referees, &c.
SEc. 20. All or any of the issues in the action, whether of fact
or law, or both, may be referred upon the written consent of the
parties.
SEC. 27. When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon
the application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in
h
the following cases:
1. When the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination
of a long account on either side, in which case the referees
may be directed to hear ind decide the whole issue, or to report
upon any specific question of fact involved therein; or
2. When the taking of an account shall be necessary for the information
of the court, before judgment upon an issue law, or for
carrying a judgment or order into effect; or
3. When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, shall
arise, unon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action; or
4. When it is necessary for the information of the court in a
special proceeding.,
SEc. 28. A reference may be ordered to any person or persons, not exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If the parties do
not agree, the court or judge may appoint one or more, not exceeding
three, who reside in the county in which the action is brought
or the proceeding is triable.
SEC. 29. When the appointment of referees is made by the court
or judge, each referee shall be:
1
1. Qualified as a juror as provided by statute;
2. Competent as a juror between the parties.
SEC. 30. The trial by referees shall be conducted in the same manner as a trial by the court. They shall have the same power
to administer oaths to witnesses and to grant adjournments, as the court upon such trial. They shall state the facts found, and the conclusions of law separately,. and their decision shall be given, and may be excepted to and reviewed in like manner. The report of the referees upon the whole issue, shall stand as the decision of
the court, and judgment may be entered thereon in the same manner
as if the action had been tried by the court. When the reference
is to report the facts, the report shall have the effect of a
special verdict.
TITLE VI.
Of Exceptions.
31. Nature of an exception; must be material.
32. Exceptions how stated.
33. Exceptions require no particular form.
34. Report of referees when deemed excepted to, without special notice of exception.
SEC. 31. An exception is an objection taken at the trial to a de. cision upon matter of law, whether such trial be by jury, court, or referees, and whether the decision be made during the formation of a jury, or in the admission of evidence, or in the charge to the jiry,
or at any other time from the calling of the action for trial to the
rendering of the verdict or decision. But no exception shall be
regarded on a motion for a new trial, or on an appeal, unless the
exception be material, and affect the substantial rights of the parties.
SEC. 32. The point of the exception shall be particularly stated, and may be delivered, in writing, to the judge, or entered in his
minutes, and at the time or afterwards, be corrected until made
conformable to the truth.
SEC. 33. No particular form of exception shall be required. The objection shall be stated, with so much of the evidence or other mntter as is necessary to explain it, but no more.
SEC. 34. When a cause has been tried by the court, or by refer- ees, and the decision or report is not made immediately after the of the testimony, the decision or report shall be deemed to on a motion for a new trial, or on appeal, without any special notice that an exception is taken thereto.
TITLE VII.
Of New Trial.
5. Definition of new trial.
30. New trial, when granted.
37. Application for new trial, when to be on affidavit.
38. Motion for new trial, how made, and when heard.
39. Affidavits for now trials, may be refuted by counter affidavits.
SEC. 35. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of fact in the same court, after a trial and decision by a jury, court, or re- ferees.
SEC. 36. The former verdict or other decision may be vacated,
and a new trial granted on the application of the party aggrievel;
for any of the following causes, materially affecting the substantial
rights of such party:
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or adverse
party, or any order of the court, or abuse of discretion by which
such party was prevented from having a fair trial;
2. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party;
3. Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against;
4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the
application, which he could not with reasonable diligence have dis.
covered and produced at the trial;
5. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the
1ni.nsf luence of passion or prejudice;
6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, or that it is against law;
7. Error in law occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the
party making the application.
SEC. 37. When the application is made for a cause mentioned in the first, second, third and fourth subdivisions of the last section,
it shall be upon affidavit, setting forth the facts upon which such
application is based, which affidavit shall be filed with the clerk.
SEc. 38. If, upon the giving of a verdict, or other decision, either
party shall move fo' a new trial, the reasons for the same, and the
affidavits, if any, in support thereof, shall be filed as soon as practicable,
and the motion shall be heard when the parties shall have
had a reasonable time to prepare therefore.
SEC. 39. If the motion be supported by affidavits, counter affidaaaits.
vits may be offered by the adverse party; and'if the cause be newly
discovered evidence, the affidavits of any witness or witnesses
showing what their testimony will be,, shall be produced, or good
reasons shown for their non-production; and in the consideratibn
of any motion for a new trial, reference may be had to any proceedings
in the case, prior to the verdict, or other decision sought to be
aet aside.
TITLE VIII.
Of General Provisions.
40. Conclusions of law and fact, how submitted.
41. Provisions respecting trials by jury are applicable to trials by referoes.
SEc. 40. Any party may, and if required by the court shall,
when the evidence is closed, submit in distinct and concise proposit.
sitions, the conclusions of fact which he claims to be established, or
the conclusions of law which he desires to be adjudged, or both.
They may be written and handed to the court, or at the option of
the court, oral, and entered in the judge's minutes; but in either
case'they. shall be entered with any exceptions that may be taken
by either party.
SEC. 41. The provisions of this chapter respecting trials by jury
shall be applied, so far as they are in their nature applicable, to
trials by the court or referees, and in the same manner the provi- sions respecting trials by the court shall apply to trials by refereesr. 
TITLE IX.
Judgment i General.
. 42. Definition of judgment.
43 & 44. Judgntent may be for or against any of the parties.
45. When an action may be dismissed; or new suit entered.
40. Judgment when to be rendered on the merits.
SEC. 42. A judgment is the final determination of the rights of the parties in the action. 
SEC. 43. Judgment may be given for or against one or more of several plaintifffs, and for or against one or more of several defend- ants; and it may, when the justice of the case requires it, deter- the ultimate rights of the parties on each side as between
themselves.
SEC. 44. In an action against several defendants the court may, in its discretion, render judgment Against one or more of them,
whenever a several judgment is proper, Icaving the action to proceed.
against the others.
SEC. 45. An action may be dismissed, or a judgment of non-suit entered in the following cases: 1. By the plaintifff himself at any time before trial, unless set- off be interposed as a defense. If the defendant shall have been
arrested, or his property delivered to, or attached by, the plaintifff,
by firtuc of a provisional remedy which has been allowed, the
undertaking shall thereupon be delivered by the clerk to the defeAdant,
who may have his action thereon;
2. By either party, upon the written consent of the other;
3. By the court, when the plaintifff fails to appear on the trial,
and the defendant appears and asks for the dismissal;
4. By the court, when upon the trial and before the final submission
of the case, the plaintifff abandons it;
5. By the court upon motion of the defendant, when upon the
trial the plaintifff fails to prove a sufficient cause for the jury.
SEC. 46. In every case, other than those mentioned in the last section, the judgment shall be rendered on the merits. 
TITLE X.
Judgment upon Failure to Answer.
SEo. 47. Judgment when it may be had, on proof of service and complaint.
SEc. 47. Judgment may be had on proof of the service of the summons and complaint, if the defendant fail to answer the coin- plaint, as follows:
1. In an action arising upon contract for the recovery of money
only, if no answer be filed with the clerk of the court within the
time prescribed by law, or such further time as may have been
granted, the court upon'the application of the plaintifff, shall direct
the clerk to enter the default of the defendant, and imlediately
thereafter enter judgment for the amount mentioned in the summons,
including the costs against the defendant, or against one or
more of several defendants, in the cases provided for in section
thirty-four of the last chapter.
2. In other actions, if no answer be filed with tbC clerk of the
court within the time prescribed by law, or such further time as
may have been granted, the court shall in like manner, direct the
clerk to enter the default of the defendant, and thereafter the
plaintifff may apply at that, or any subsequent term of the court,
for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking of an account
or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court to
give judgment or to carry the judgment into effect, the court may
take the account or hear the proof; or may in its discretion, order
a reference for that -purpose. And when the action is for the recovery
of damages only or of specific real or personal property,
with damages for the holding thereof, the court may order the
damages to be assessed by a jury, or if to determine the amount of
damages, the examination of a long account be necessary, by a reference
as above provided;
3 In actions when the service of the summons shall be by publication,
the plaintifff may in like manner, apply for judgment, and
the court shall thereupon require proof to be made of the demand.
mentioned in the complaint, and if the defendant be not a resident
of the territory, shall require the plaintifff or his agent, to be examined
on oath respecting any payments that have been made to
the plaintifff or to any one for his use on account of such demand,
and may render judgment for the amount which he is- entitled to
recover. Before rendering judgment, the court may, in its derction,
require the plaintifff to cause to be filed, satisfactory secuity
to abide the order of the court, touching the restitution of any property
collected or received under the judgment, in case the defendant
or his representatives shall be admitted to defend the action,
and succeed In the defense.
4. The court may in its discretion, before final judgment, set
aside any default upon affidavit showing good and sufficient cause,
and upon such terms as may be deemed reasonable.
TITLE XI.
Judgnent by Confession.
48. Judgment by confession of claim in action.
49. Judgment by confession of claih not in action.
50. Statement in writing what to contain.
51. Filiig statement and entering judgment.
52. Executions bow issued.
SEC. 48. Any defendant in an action pending in the district court,
may personally appear before the clerk of such court, either in term
time or in vacation, and with the assent of the plaintifff, or his attorney,
confess judgment for the amount admitted to be due,
whereupon judgment shall be entered accordingly by the clerk.
SEC. 49. A judgment by confession may also be entered without
action, in term time or in vacation, either for money due, or to become
due, or to secure any person against contingent liability on
behalf of the defendant, or both, in the manner prescribed in the next two sections.
SEc. 50. A statement in writing shall be made, signed by the de- fIndant, and verified by his oath, to the following effect: 1. It shall authorize the entry of judgment for a particular sum;
2. If it be for money due, or to become due,, it shall state concisely
the facts out of which it arose, and shall show that the sum
confessed is justly due, or to become due*
3. If it be for the purpose of securing &e plaintifff against a contingent
liability, it shall state concisely the facts constituting the
liability, and shall show that the sum confessed therefore does not
exceed the same.
SEC. 51. The statement shall be filed with the clerk of the district in which the judgment is to be entered, who shall indorse upon it and enter in the judgment book a judgment for the amount confessed, with five dollars cost. The statement and affidavit, with
the judgment indorsed, shall thereupon become the judgment roll.
SEC. 52. Executionsmay be issued on judgments by confession as in other cases, and when such judgment is payable in instal- ments, the execution may issue for such instalments as have become
due, with interest thereon and the costs of judgment; and
whenever any other instalments become due, execution may in like
manner be issued for the collection and enforcement of the same.
TITLE XII.
&bmitting Controversy without Action.
53. Controversy how submitted without action.
54. Judgment the same as other cases, but without costs.
55. Judgment may be enforced or appealed froni as in an action.
SEc. 53. Parties to a question in difference, which niight be the subject of an action at law, may without action agree upon a case containing the facts upon which the controversy depends, and pre- sent a submission of the same to any court which would have jurisdiction
if an action had been brought. But it must appear by
affidairit that the controversy is real, and the proceedings in good
faith, to determine the rights of the parties; the court shall thereupon
hear and determine the case, and render judgment thereon as
if an action were depending.
SEC. 54. -Judgment shall be entered in the judgment book as in other cases, but without costs for any proceeding prior to the trial. The case,' the submission, and a copy of the judgment, shall consti- tute the judgment roll.
SEc. 55. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if it had been rendered in an action, and shall in the same manner be subject to appeal. 
TITLE XIII.
Manner of giving and entering Judgment.
56. Judgments in trial byjury, when entered.
57. Case reserved for argument, how brought before the court.
58. When judgment shall be given for defendant.
59. Judgments in action for the recovery of personal property.
G0. Clerk to keep "judgment" book.
61. Judgment roll, and what constitutes it.
62. Judgment when docketed and when a lien on real property.
63. Judgment lien docket.
64. Satisfaction when to be entered in lien docket.
SEC. 56. When a trial by jury has been -had, judgment shall be
entered by the clerk, in conformity to the verdict, within four days
after the rendition thereof, unless an affidavit or statement of
grounds for a new trial shall be filed, or unless the court order the
case to be reserved for argument or further consideration, or grant
a stay of proceedings.
SEC. 57. When the case is reserved for argument or further conargunent
sideration, as mentioned in the last section, it may be brought by
either party before the court for argument, at the first special term
thereafter.
SEc. 58. If a set-off established at the trial exceed the plaintifff's
demand so established, judgment for the defendant shall be given
for the excess; or if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any
other affirmative relief, judgment shall be given accordingly.
SEC. 59. In an action to recover the possession of personal property, judgment for the plaintifff may be for the possession, or
the value thereof, in case a delivery cannot be had, and damages
for the detention. If the property have been delivered to the plaintifff
and the defendant claim a return thereof, judgment, for the-defendant
may be for a return of the property, or the value thereof,
in case a return cannot be had, and damages for taking and withholding
the same.
SEc. 60. The clerk shall keep among the records of the court a
book for the entry of judgments, to be called-the "judgment book,"
in which each judgment shall be entered, and shall specify clearly
the relief granted, or other determination of the action.
SEc. 61. Immediately after entering the judgment, the clerk shall
attach together, and file the following papers, which shall constitute
the judgment roll:
1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant, the
summons and complaint, or copies thereof, with the proof of service,
and memorandum, indorsed on the complaint, that the default
of the defendant in not ankwering was entered, and a copy of the
judgment;
2. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings or copies thereof,
and a copy of the judgment, with any verdict or report, the offer
of the defendant, bill of exceptions, and all orders- relating to a
change of parties, or in any ivay involving the merits and necessarily affecting the judgment.
SEc. 62. On filing a judgment-roll, judgment shall be docketed
by the clerk of the court in the county where it shall be rendered,
and in any other county, upoii filing with the clerk of the district
court of such county, a transcript of the original docket, and thereupon
it shall become a lien on, all the real property of the judgment
debtor, not exeinpt froif execution, in any county where it
shall be docketed, such lien shall extend to all the real. property of
the judgment debtor, owned by him at the time of docketing the
judgment, or which he may afterwards acquire until the lien expires, such lien shall continue for five years from the time of the rendition of the judgment, unless it be previously satisfied.
SEc. 63. The docket mentioned in the last section, is a book which the clerk shall keep in his office, to be called the "judgment lien docket," with each page divided into.eight columns, and headed
as follows: Judgment debtors; judgment creditors; araount of
judgment; time of entry; when entered in judgment book; appeals
when taken; judgment of appellate court; satisfaction when
entered. The names of the judgment debtors shall be entered in
the docket in alpbabetical order.
SEC. 64. Satisfaction of a judgment shall be entered by the clerk in the judgment lien. docket, when an execution shall be returned satisfied, or upon an acknowledgment of satisfaction filed with the clerk, made in the manner of an acknowledgment of a conveyance
of real property, or made in the presence of the clerk, or within
two years after the judgment by the attorney of record, unless a
revocation of his authority be previously filed. Whenever a judgment
shall be satisfied in fact, otherwise than upon an execution, it
shall be the duty of. the party or attorney to give such acknowledgement,
and upon motion the court may compel it, or may order
the entry of satisfaction to be made without it.
CHAPTER III.
EXECUTIONS.
TITLE I. The Execution.
TITLE H.. Proceedings Suppementary to the Execution.
TITLE I.
The Execution.
Smc. 1. Execution may issue in fivo years.
2. Execution after five years, to be issued on the leave of court.
3. Other judgments how enforced.
4. Different kinds of executions.
5. Writ of execution; to whom directed, what to contain.
6. Execution may be issued to any county in territory.
7. To be returnable in sixty days.
8. Execution against the person, in what cases and when.
9. Arrest on execution; plaintifff when liable for costs.
10. Property liablo to execution.
11. Propbrty exempt from execution.
12. Sheriff, when to summon jury, to try right of property.
13. Verdict, to be in writingwhen an indemnity to the sheriff.
14. Fees of sheriff jury, and witnesses, by whom paid.
15. Withdrawal of claim by claimant before verdict.
10. Sheriff may sell, notwithstanding verdict for claimant, if indemnified.
17. 'Return of undertaking and prosecution thereof, by claimant.
18. Notice of sale of real and personal property.
19. Penalty for selling without, or defacing notice.
20. Sales how made.
21. Whed defendant may retain personal property levied on.
22. When sheriff may postpone sale.
28. Delivery of property topurehaser.
24. Real property when and where not subject to redemption.
25. Who may redeem.
. 20. When and on what terms, judgment debtor, or lien creditor redeemcd.
27. Redemption after redemption.
28. Purchaser, when entitled to deed; deed to be approved by the court.
29. Payment for redemption and tender thereof to whom made.
30. Redemption by lien creditors; mode of procedure.
31. Order to prevent wasto until time of redemption expired.
32. Purchaser and redemptioner when entitled to rents,
33. Liability of judgment creditor to purchaser in case of eviction.
34. Contribution among judgment debtors.
SEc. 1. The party in whose favor judgment is given, may at any
time within five years after the entry thereof; issue a writ of execution
for its enforcement as prescribed by statute.
SEc. 2. After the lapse of five years from the entry of judgment,
au execution can be issued only by leave of the court, upoli motion, with personal notice to the adverse party, unless he be absent or
non-resident, or cannot be found to make such service, in which
case such service may be made by publication, or in such other
manner as the court shall direct. Such leave shall not be given
unless it be established by the oath of the party, or other satisfactory
proof that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains unsatisfied
and due. When the judgment shall have been rendered
in a justice's court, and docketed in the office of the clerk of the district
court, sui application for leave to issue an execution shall be
to the district court of the county where the judgment was -rendered.
SEC. 3. When a judgment requires the payment of money or the
dei 1ma h n in~ very of real or personal property, the same may be enfo in
those respects by execution, as provided in this chapter. When it
requires the performance of any other act, a certified copy of the
judgment may be served on the party, against whom it is given, or
the person or officer who is required thereby or by law, to obey
the same, and his obedience thereto enforced. If he refuse he may
be punished by the court as for a contempt.
SEc. 4. There shall be three kinds of' executions: one against
the property of the judgment debtor; another against his person;
and the third for the delivery of the possession of real or personal
property, or such delivery with damages for withholding the same.
SEc. 5. The writ of execution shall be issued in the name of the
United States, sealed with the seal of the court, and subscribed by
the clerk, and shall be directed to the sheriff, or coroner when the
sheriff is a party or interested, and shall intelligibly refer to the
jedgmcnt, stating the court, the county where the judgment roll is
filed? the names of the parties, the amount of the judgment, if it be
for money, and the amount actually due thereon, and shall require
the sheriff substantially as follows:1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it shall
require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment with interest, out of the
personal property of such debtor, and if sufficient personal property
cannot be found, out of the real property belonging to him on the
day when the judgment was docketed in the county, or at any time
thereafter;
2. If it be against real or personal property, in the hands of personal
representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property
or trustees, it shall require.the sheriff to satisfy the judgment
with interest out of such property;
3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it shall re- quire the sheriff to arrest such debtor and commit him to the jail
of the county until he shall pay the judgment with interest, or be
discharged according to law;
4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal
property, it shall require the sheriff to deliver the possession of the
same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and
may, at the same time, require the sheriff to satisfy any costs,
charges, damages or rents and profits recovered by the same judgmont,
out of the personal property of the party against whom it
was rendered, and the value of the property for which the judgmont
was recovered to be specified therein, if a deivery thereof
cannot be had, and if sufticient personal property can; u be fbund,
then out of the real property belonging to him on the day when
the judgment was docketed in the county, or. at any time thereafter.
SEC. 6. When the execution is against the property of the judg. meat debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff of any county in this territory. When it requires delivery of real or personal property, it be issued to the sheriff of the county where the property or
some part thereof is situated. Executions nmay be issued at the same
time to different counties.
SEC. 7. The sheriff shall indorse upon a writ of execution, the time when liereceived the same, and such execution shall be re- turnable, within sixty days after its receipt by the sheriff to the
clerk with whom the judgment roll is filed.
SEc. 8. If the action be one in which the defendant might have been arrested as provided by statute, an execution against the per- son of the judgment debtor, may be issued to any county within the jurisdiction of the court, after the return of the execution
against his property, unsatisfied in whole or in part.
SEc. 9. A person arrested on execution shall be imprisoned within the jail or the liberties thereof, and kept at his own expense
until satisfaction of the execution, or his legal discharge, but the
plaintifff shall be liable, in the first instance, for such expense as in
other cases of arrest, in the same manner and to the same extent
as prescribed in sections 103 and 104 of chapter one.
SEc. 10. All property, real and-personal, of the judgment debtor, not exempt by law, and which is liable to an attachment, shall be
liable to execution. Until a levy, property shall not be affected
by the execution.
SEC. 11. The following property shall be exempt from execution, * * * except as herei otherwise specially provided:- 1. All wearing apparel of overy person or family;
2. The miscellaneous library and school-books of every individual
and family, not exceeding in value one hundred and fifty dollars,
and all family pictures.
3. To each household, ten'sheep with their fleeces and. the yarn or cloth manufactured therefrom, two cows, five swine, and pro- vision and fuel for the comfortable subsistence of such householder and family for six months.
4. To each householder all household goods, furniture and utensils,
not exceeding in value three hundred dollars;
5, The tools, implements, material, stock, apparatus, team, Vehicle,
horses, harness, library or other things, to enable any person
to carry on the profession, trade, occupation or business in which
such person may be wholly or principally engaged, not excceding
in value four hundred dollars the word team in this subdivision
shall he construed to mean either one yoke of oxen, or a pair of
horses or mules, as the case may be;
6. A sufficient quantity of hay, grain, and feed for keeping for
three months, the animals mentioned in the several subdivisions
of this section as exempted from execution. But no article of property
mentioned in this section shall be exempt from an execution
issued on a judgment, recovered for its price, or upon a mortgage
thereon.
SEC. 12. When personal property shall be seized by virtue of
any execution, and any person other than the defendant, shall
claim such property or any part thereof, and shall give notice thereof
in writing, the sheriff may summon from his county six persons,
qualified as jurors between the parties, to try the validity of the
claim, giving five days' notice of the time and place of the trial to
the plaintifff in the execution or his attprney.
SEc. 13. The sheriff at the request of either party, shall sunnon witnesses and compel them to attend and give testimony, and he
Shall administer the necessary oaths to the jurors and witnesscs.
On the trial the defendant and the claimant may be examined by
the plaintifff as witnesses, and the verdict of such jury being rendered
in writing, and signed by the foreman, shall be a full indemnity
to the sheriff, proceeding in accordancetherewith.
SEC. 14. The sheriff, jury and witnesses shall be allowed the like
fees, as for similar cases in the district court, and shall be paid by
the claimant if the verdict is against him, otherwise by the plaintiffl,
and the sheriff may levy all such costs, upon the goods and chattels
of the party made liable to pay them, as on execution.
SEc. 15. If at any time before the jury return, the claimant with- draw his claira, the trial shall proceed no further, and the claimant
shall pay the costs of such unfinished trial.
SEC. 10. Notwithstanding the verdict of the jury be for the claimundertaking.
ant, yet the sheriff shall proceed to sell the property seized in satisfaction
of the execution, if the plaintifff tender to him a written undertaking,
executed by two or more good and sufficient sureties,
residents of the county, in double the value of the property, to the
effect that he will indemnify the sh eriff against all damagcs and
costs, which he may sustain in consequence of the seizure and sale
of such property, and moreover, that he will pay to any person or
persons claiming title to such property, all danmages which he or
they may sustain in consequence of such seizure and sale.
SEC. 17. If such undertaking be given, it shall be returned by
the sheriti, together with the execution, and filed with the clerk who issued the execution, and the claimant may prosecute his suit
upon such undertaking, and recover such damages as a jury may
assess.
SEC. 18. Before the sale of property on execution, notice thereof shall be given as follows:
1. In ease of personal property, by posting written or printed
notice of the time and place of sale, in three public places of the
county where thc sale is to take place, not less than ten Clays sue- cessively;
2. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice, particularly
describing the property, for four weeks successively, in three
public places of the county, where the property is situated, and
also where the property is to be sold, and publishing a copy
thereof once a week, for the same period, in a newspaper of the
county, if there be one, or if there be none, then in a newspaper
published nearest to the place of sale;
SEC. 19. Any officer selling without the notice prescribed by the last section, shall forfeit one hundred dollars to the party aggrieved, addition to his actual damages, and a person willfully taking down, or defacing the notice posted, if done before the sale or
satisfaction of the execution, and without the consent of the parties,
shall forfeit fifty dollars to the party aggrieved, but the validity of
the sale shall not be affected by either act.
SEc. 20. All sales of property under execution shall be made by auction, between nine o'clock in the morning and sunset. After sqfficient property has been sold to satisfy the execution, no more
shall be sold. Neither the officer holding the execution, nor his
deputy, shall become a purchaser or be interested in any purchase
at such sale. When the sale is of personal property capable of
manual delivery, it shall be within view of those who attend the
sale, and be sold in such parcels as are likely to bring the highest
price, and when the sale is of real property, and consisting of
soveral known lots or parcels, they shall be sold separately, or
when a portion of such real property is claimed by a third person,
and he requires it to be sold separately, such portion shall be thus
sold. Sales of real property shall be made on the premises, if occupied
by the defendant or any person holding under him, otherwise
such sales shall be made at the house door.
SEC. 21. When the sheriff shall levy upon personal jroperty by virtue of an execution, he may. ~p~e rmi.t the defendant to retain th same, or any part thereof in his possession until the day of sale, upon the defendant executing a written undertaking to the sheriff with sufficient surety, in double the value of such property, to the
effect that it shall be delivered to the sheriff at the time and place
of sale, and for non-delivery thereof, an action may be maintained
upon such undertaking by the sheriff or the plaintifff in the
execution.
SEC. 22. If at the time appointed for the sale, the sheriff should prevented from attending at the place appointed, or being pres- ent should deem it for the advantage of all concerned to postpone
the sale for want of purchasers, or other sufficient cause, he-.may
postpone the sale not exceeding one week, next after the day appointed,
and so from time to time for the like cause, giving notice of
every adjournment by public proclamation, made at the same time.
SEC. 23. When the purchaser of any personal property capable of manual delivery, shall pay the purchase money, the sheriff shall deliver to him the property, and if desired shall give him a
certificate of the sale and payment. When such personal property
shall not be capable of manual delivery, the sheriff shall execute
and deliver-to the purchaser a certificate of sale and payment.
SEc. 24. Upon a sale of real property, when the estate is less
than a leasehold of two years' unexpired term, the sale shall be absolute. In all other cases the real property shall be subject to reredemption.
demption, as provided in this chapter. The sheriff shall give to
the purchaser a certificate of the sale, containing:
1. A particular description of the property sold;
2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel;
3. The whole price paid;
4. When subject to redemption, it shall be so stated, a duplicate
of which certificate shall be filed by the sheriff with thorecorder
of deeds of the county.
SEc. 25. Property sold subject to redemption, as provided in the
last section, or any part sold separately, may be rodeemed in the
manner hereinafter provided by the following persons or their subcessors
in interest:
1. The judgment debtor, or his successor in interest, in the
whole, or any part of the property;[1]
2. A creditor having a lien by judgment, mortgage or otherwise
in the property sold, or on some share or part thereof, subsequent
to that on which the property was sold.
The persons mentioned in the second subdivision of this section,
after having redeemed the property, are termed rodemptioners.
SEc. 26. The judgment debtor or lien creditor may redeem the
property from the purchaser within three months after tho day of
sale, on paying him the amount of his purchase with ten per cent.
thereon in addition, together with the amount of any'taxes which
the purchaser may have paid thereon after the purchase, and if the
purchaser be also a creditor, having a lien prior to that of the redemptioner,
the amount of such lien with interest.
SEc. 27. If the property be so redeemed by a red6mptioner, either the judgment debtor -or any other lien creditor may within
sixty days after the last redemption, again redeem it on paying
the sum paid on the last redemption with interest, and the amount
of taxes which the last redemptioner may have paid thereon, and
unless his lien be prior to that of such last rodermptioner, the
amount of such lien with interest. The property may be again,
and as often as the judgment debtor, or any lien creditor or redemptioner
is disposed, redeemed from the last previous redemptioner,
within sixty days after the last redemption, on paying the
sum paid on the last previous redemption, with interest, and the
amount of any taxes paid thereon by such last redemptioner, and the
amount of any lieis held by such last redemptioner, prior to his
own, with interest. Notice of redemption shall in all cases be
given to the sheriff.
SEC. 28. If no redemption be made within three months after
the sale, the purchaser shall be entitled to a conveyance; or if so
redeemed, whenever sixty days shall have elapsed, and io other
redemption has been made, and notice thereof given, the time for
redemption shall have expired, and the last redemptioner shall be
entitled to a sheriff's deed. If the judgment debtor redeem, at any
time before the time for redemption expires, the effects of the sale
shall be terminated, and he be restored to his estate. The sheriff before delivering a deed to any purchaser or redemptioner, shall
submit the same to the district court for the county in which they
lie, for its approval, and if there be no irregularity in the proceed.
ing, concerning the sale, such court shall indorse thereon its approval,
and thereupon the sheriff shall deliver such, and to the
person entitled to the same.
SEc. 29. The payment for the redemption of property may be made to the purchaser or redemptioner, as the case may be, or for him to the officer who made the sale; and the tender of the money shall be equivalent to payment.
SEc. 30. A lion creditor, seeking to redeem property, shall pro- duce to the officer or person from whom he seeks to redeem, and serve with his notice to the sheriff:
1. A copy of the docket of the judgment under which he claims
the right to redeem, certified by the clerk of the court of the
county where the judgment is docketed; if he redeem upon a
mortgage or other lieu, a note of the record thereof, certified by
the recorder;
2. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish his claim,
verified by the affidavit of himself, or of a subscribing witness
thereto; and
3. An affidavit by himself, or his agent, showing the amount
then actually due on the lien.
SEC. 31. Until the expiration of the time allowed for redemption, the-colirt may restrain the commission of waste on the property, by order granted with or without notice, on the application of the purchaser or judgment creditor, but it shall not be deemed waste
for the person in possession of the property at the time of sale, or
entitled to possession afterwards, during the period allowed for
redemption, to continue to use it in the samen manner in which it
was previously used; or to use it in the ordinary course of husbandry;
or to make the necessary repairs to buildings thereon;
or to use wood or timber on the property therefore; or for the repair
of fences; or for fuel in his family while he occupies the
property.
SEC. 32. The purchaser from the time of sale until a redemption, and a redomptioner from the time of his redemption- until another shall be entitled to receive from the tenant in posses- sion the rents of the property sold, or the value of the use and occupation thereof.
SEc. 33. If the pinchaser of real property sold on execution, or .s . . IJudgment his successor in interest, be evicted therefom in consequence of irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale, or of the rever- sal or discharge of the judgment, he may recover the price paid with interest, from the judgment creditor. If the recovery be in
consequence of the irregularity of the proceedings concerning the
sale, the judgment may, by order of the court, upon notice to the
debtor, be revived, and a new execution issued for the price paid
on the sale with interest. Such judgment shall be a lien on the
real estate of a judgment debtor, only from the time of its revival.
SEc. 34. When property liable to 'an execution against several is sold thereon, and more thair a due proportion of the
judgment is levied upon the property of one of them, or one of
them pays without a sale, more than his proportion, he may compel
contributions from the others; and when a judgment is against
several, and is upon an obligation or contract of one of them as
security for another, and the surety pays the amount, or any part
thereof either by sale of his property or before sale, he may compel
re-payment from the principal. In such cases, the person so paying
or contributing, shall be entitled to the benefit of the judgment to
enforce contribution or re-payment, if within thirty days aftei' his
payment, he file with the clerk of the court where the judgment
was rendered, notice of his payment and claim to contribution or
re-payment; upon filing such notice, the clerk shall make an entry
thereof in the margin of the docket where the judgment is entered.
TITLE II.
Proceedings Supplementary to the Execution.
. 35. Order to examine judgment debtor.
36. Examination ofjudgment debtor.
37. When judge may issuo warrant to arrest debtor.
38. Sheriffs receipt, whou a discharge to debtor of judgment dobtor.
30. When garnishoo may be summoned to appear and answer.
40. Creditor may exhibit allegations to garnishee.
41. Answer of garnishee, consequence of default.
42. Judgment against garnishee.
43. When creditor may except to garnishee's answer.
44. Creditor may deny such answer, and issue thereon.
45. Judgment against garnishoo: his allowance for trouble.
40. When garnishee may dischargo himself,
47. Examination of judgment debtor or claimant.
48. Costs ofjudgment creditor and karnish.e.
49. Execution, how issued against garnishee.
50. Certain earnings of judgment debtor exempt.
51. Public officors not liable to answer as garnishee.
SEC. 35. After the issuing of an execution against property, and
upon proof by affidavit of a party, or otherwise, to the satisfaction
of the district court, or any judge thereof that the judgment debtor
has property or effects which he unjustly refuses to apply towards
the satisfaction of the judgment, such court or judge may, by an
order, require the judgment debtor to appear and answer under
oath concerning the same, before such court or judge, or before a
referee appointed by such court or judge, at the time and place
specified in the order, the place to be within the county in which
the judgment debtor residesi and disobedience to such order may
be punished as for a contempt.
SEC. 36. The judgment -debtor on his appearance, may be examined
on oath concerning his property, and his answers reduced
to writing, and filed with the clerk of the court, by whom the execution
was issued. Either party may also examine witnesses in
his behalf, and if during such examination, any property, rights or
credits of such judgment debtor, not exempt by law be discovered,
they may be levied upon by execution.
SEc. 37. Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the
judgment debtor, as provided in the last two sections, the court
or judge may, upon proof-by affidavit of a party or otherwise, to
his satisfaction, that there is danger of the debtor leaving the
territory, or concealing himself, and that there is reason to believe he has property which he unjustly refuses to apply to such judgment,
issue a warrant requiring the sheriff of any'county where
such debtor may be, to arrest him and bring him before the court
or judge; upon being brought before the court or judge, lie may
be examined on oath, and if it then appear that there is danger
of the debtor leaving the territory, and that he has property which
he has unjustly refused to apply to such judgment, he may be
ordered to enter into an undertaking with one or more sureties,
that he will from time to time attend before the court or judge as
may be directed, and that he will not, during the pendency of the
proccedings, dispose of any portion of his property not exempt
from execution. In default of entering into such undertaking, he'
may be committed to prison by warrant of the judge.
SEc. 88. After the issuing of execution against property, any
person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the execution, and the sheriff's receipt shall be a sufficient
discharge for the amount so paid.
SEC. 39. After the issuing or return of an execution against pro- perty of a judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same judgment, and upon an affidavit that any person or cor- poration has property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to in an amount exceeding twenty-five dollars, the district court, or any judge thereof, may by an order require such person or corp6ration,
or any officer or member thereof to appear at a specified
time and place, before such court or judge, or a reibree appointed
by such court or judge, and answer concerning the same. If before
a referee, the examination shall be taken by the reforee and
certified to the court or judge. Tihe court or judge inay, also, in
their discretion, require notice of such proceeding to be given to
any party to the action, in such. manner as may seem to him
proper. A
SEc. 40. At any timo after the making of such order, the judg. mont creditor may exhibit written allegations and interrogatories touching the property, stock or credits of the judgment debtor in the possession of, or held by such person or corporation as garnishoe,
or debts owing to the judgment debtor by him or it, and
such garnishee, shall be required to make full, direct and true
answers to the same on oath.
SEC. 41. On the day when the garnishee shall be required to attend before the court, judge or referee, he shall exhibit on oath his answer to the allegations and interrogatories of the judgment
creditor, unless for cause shown a further time shall be allowed;
in deftult of such answer the judgment creditor may take judgment
by default against him, or the court or judge may punish
him as for contempt.
SEC. 42. Such judgment by default may be -proceeded on to final judgment, in like manner as actions against defendants, but
no final judgment shall be rendered against the garnishee for a
greater amount than that specified in the execution.
SEC. 43. The judgment creditor may except to the answer of any garnishee for insufficiency, and if the same shall be judged
insufficient, the court or judge may allow the garnishee to amend
his answer, in such time and upon such terms as shall be just, or
the judgment creditor may take judgment by default, or move the
court or judge to attach the body of the garnishee to compel a
sufficient answer.
SEC. 44. The judgment creditor may deny the answer of the garnishee in whole or in part, and the issue shall be tried as ordinary
issues between plaintifff and defendant. If the answer of
the garnishee be not excepted to or dcenied in such time as the court
or judge may deem proper, it shall be taken to be true and suficient.
SEc. 45. If by the answer not excepted to nor denied, or if upon
trial it shall appear that the garnishee is possessed of property or
effects of the judgment debtor, or is indebted to him, the value of
such property or effects, or of the debt, being ascertained, judgment
may be rendered against the garnishee for the proper amount
in money, but if such debt be not yet due, execution shall not be
awarded against the garnishee until it becomes due; and in such
cases the court may make him a. reasonable allowance for his
trouble in answering, to be paid out of the fund in his hands.

SEC. 46. Whenever any property, effects money or debts be- mayanpopyeecs , cetnisch
longing or owing to the judgment debtor, shall be confessed or
found by the court, judge, referee or jury, to be in the possession
of the garnishee, he may at any time before final judgment, discharge
himself by delivering the same to the sheriff.
SEC. 47. The judgment debtor or claimant may be required to
attend before the court, judge or jury, for the purpose of giving
any necessary informiation respecting the property or effects alleged
to be in the possession of the garnishee, and may be thereupon
examined on oath concerning the same.
SEc. 48. In all cases of controversy between the judgment credi- tor and garnishee, the parties may be adjudged to pay or recover
costs as in ordinary cases between plaintill and defendant.
SEc. 49. Execution may be issued to collect any judgment ronn
dered against a garnishee, as in ordinary cases of judgment against
defendants.
SEc. 50. The earnings of a judgment debtor for personal services,
at any time within sixty days next preceding the judgment against
a garnishee, shall not be included in such judgment, when it shall
be made to appear by the affidavit of the judgment debtor, or
otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for the use of a family,
supported wholly or partly by his labor.
SEc. 51. No territorial or county treasurer, sheriff, constable, or
other public officer, shall be liable to answer as garnishee for moneys i his possession as such public officer, belonging to, or claimed
by any judgment debtor.
CHAPTER IV.
OF EVIDENCE.
TITLE I. Of the Competency of T71itnesses.
TME II. Qf the Manner of Compelling the Attendance of Tlitnesses.
TITLE III. Of Examination of Titnesses.
TrITLE IV. Of Depositions taken in the Territory.
TITLE V. O.fD epositions taken out of Territory.
TITLE VI. Of Proceedings to Perpetuate Testimony.
TITLE VII. Of Provisiois Relating to Records, Documents and other
Writings.
TITLE I.
Of the Conipetency of Titnesses.
Sa. 1. Want of religious belief not to disqualify.
2. But belibf in Supreme Doing, who will punish perjury, necessary.
3. No person to be excluded on account of interest.
4. To whom last soction inapplicable.
5. Conviction for crime to affet credibility only.
(. Persons incompetent to testify.
7. Certain persons not to be examined.
SEc. 1. No person if otherwise competent, shall be disqualified
from being a witness on account of the want of religious belief.
SEc. 2. Every person believing in the existence of a Supreme Being, who will punish falso swearing, if otherwise competent, may be a witness in any action or proceeding
SEC. 3. No person offered as a witness shall be excluded from giving evidence by reason of his interest in the event of the action. 
SEc. 4. The last section shall not apply to a party to the action, nor to any person for whose immediate benefit it is prosecuted or defended. When an assignor of a thing in action or contract is examined as a witness on behalf of any person deriving title
through or from him, the adverse party may offer himself as a witness
to the same matter in his own behalf, and he shall be so received.
But such assignor shall not be admitted to be examined
in behalf of any person deriving title through or from him, against
any excoutor or administrator. a
SEC. 5. No person offered as a witness shall be excluded from giving evidence, by reason of conviction for crime, but such con- viction may be shown to affect his credibility. 
SEc. 6. The following persons shall not be competent to testify 1. Those who are of unsound mind, or intoxicated at the time of their production for examination ; 2. Children under ten years of age, who appear incapable of receiving
just impressions of the facts respecting which they are examined,
or of relating them truly;
4. Negroes, mulattocs and Indians, or persons one half or more
of Indian blood, in an action or proceeding to which a white person
is a party.
SEc. 7. In order to encourage confidence, and to preserve it in- violate, the following persons shall not be examined as witnesses:
1. A husband shall not be examined for or against his wife, nor
a wife for or against her husband; ior can either, during marriage
or 'afterwards, be, without the consent of the other, examined as to
any communication made by one to the other during marriage.
But this exception shall not apply to a civil action or proceeding
by one against the other; nor to a criminal action or proceeding
for a crime committed by one against tle other;
2. An attorney or counsellor shall not, without the consent of
his client, be examined as to any communication made by the
client to him, or his advice given thereon in the course of professional
employment;
. A clergyman or priest shall not, without the consent of the
perSOIL making the confession, be examined as to any confession
made to him in his professional character, in the course of discipline
enjoined by the church to which lie belongs;
4.' A regular physician or surgeon shall not, without the consent
of his patient, be examined in a civil action as to any information
acquired in attending such patient, which was necessary to enable
him to prescribe or act for the patient;
5. A )ublic officer shall not be examined as to communications
male to him in official confidence, wv'hcn the public interest would
stiffer by the disclosure.
TITLE II.
fanner of Compelling the Attundance of Witnesses,
Sec. S. Witnesses not compolled to attend.
9. Subpoenn, its requisites.
10. Subpowna, how issued.
11. Subpuna, how served.
12 & 13. Persons in court may be conpelled to testify.
i4. Penalty for disregarding subipeia.
15. Attachment, when to issue.
16. Order to exnmino a prisoner.
17. Order, how obtained.
SEC. 8. No person shall be obliged to attend as a witness before
any court of record, judge, justice of the peace, commissioner, referee,
or other officer, in any civil action out of the county in which
he resides, unless his residence be within twenty miles of such
court, judge, justice. of the peace, coimissioner, ieferee or other
officer. And no person shall be compelled to attend as a witness
in any civil action or proceeding, unless the fees be paid or tendered
to him, which are allowed by law for one day's attendance as a
witness, and for travelling to and returning from the place where
he is required to attend, provided such fees be demanded by him
at the time of service of the subpoena.
SEC. 9. The subpoena may require not only the personal attendance
of' the person to whom it is directed, at a particular time and
place to.testify as a witness, but may also require him to bring
with him any books, documents, or other things under his control.
SEc. 10. The subpcona shall be issued as fdllows :
1. To require attendance before a court of record, or at the trial
of an issue therein, it shall be issued in the name of the United
States, and be under the seal of the court, before which the attend- ance is required, or in which the issue is pending.
2. To require attendance out of such a court, before a judge, justice
of the peace, commissioner, referee, or other officer, authorized
to administer oaths, or take testimony in any matter under the
laws of this territory, it shall be issued by such judge, justice of the
peace, commissioner, referee, or other officer before whom the attendance
is required:
3. To require attendance before a commissioner appointed to take
testimony by a court of any other state, territory or country, it may
be issued by any judge, or justice of the peace, in places within
their respective jurisdictions.
SEC. 10. Such subpoena may be served by any white person over eighteen years of age, by exhibiting and reading it to the witness,
or by giving him a copy thereof, or by leaving such copy at the
place of his abode.
SEC. 11. A person present in court or before a judical officer, may be required to testify in the same manner as if he were in at- tendance upon a subpcona issued by such court or officer. 
SEc. 12. If any person duly served with a subpoena, and obliged to attend as a witness shall fail so to do, without any reasonable cx- cuse, he shall be liable to the aggrieved party for all damages oc- casioned by such failure, to be recovered in a civil action.
SEc. 13. Such failure to attend, as required by the subptona,
shall also be considered a contempt, and upon due proof of the service.
thereof, the witness may be punished by a fine not exceeding
fifty dollars.
SEc. 14. The court, judge, justice of the. peace or other officer, in such case, may issue an attachmenit to bring such witness before
them, to answer for the contempt, and also to testify as a witness
in the cause in which lie was subpcenved.
SEC. 15. If the witness be a prisoner confined in a jail or prison within this territory, an order for his examination in prison, upon deposition, or for his temporary removal and production before a
court or officer, for the purpose of being orally examined, may be
issued.
SEc. 16. Such order can only be made upon affidavit, showing the nature of the action or proceeding the testimony expected from the witness, and its materiality. md
TITLE III.
Examination of Parties.
SEO. 11. A party may examine his adversary.
18. Plaintill' may file interrogatories for discovery.
19. Answer to interrogatories to be filed.
20. Interrogator may examine adverse party.
21. Rebutting testimony. . .
22. Effect of refusal to testify.
23. Testimony by a party not responsive to the inquiries, may be robutted by the
qath of the party calling him.
24. Person for whom action is brought or defended, may be examined.
SEC. 17. A party to an action or proceeding, may be examined as a witness, at the instance of the adverse party, or of one of several
adverse parties, and for that purpose may be compelled in the same
manner, and subject to the same rules of examination as any other
witness, to testify at the trial, or he may be examined on a com- - mission.
SEc. 18. Instead of the examination being had at the trial as pro- vided by the last section, the plaintifff at the time of filing his complaint
or afterwards, and the defendant at the time of filing his
answer, or afterwards, may file in the clerk's office, interrogatories
for the discovery of facts and documents material to the support or
defense of the action, to be answered on oath by the adverse party.
SEc. 19. Such interrogatories shall be answered, and such answers filed in the clerk's office, within twenty days after the same
served on the party interrogated, unless for cause shown a further
time be allowed by the court, or judge thereof.
SEC. 20. A party to an action having filed interrogatories fo be
answered by the adverse party, as prescribed by the last two seeverse
tions, shall not thereby be precluded from examining such adverse
party as a witness at the trial.
SEc. 21. The testimony of a party either upon an examination the trial, or upon interrogatories filed, may be rebutted by adverse
testimony.
SEc. 22. If a party refuse to attend, and testify at the trial, or to examined upon a commission, or to answer any interrogatories
filed, his complaint, answer or reply, may be stricken out and judgment
taken against him, and he may also in the discretion of the
court, be proceeded against as in other cases for a contempt.
SEC. 23. A party examined by an adverse party, as in this chapna
ter provided, may be examined on his own behalf in respect to any
thetotesse ifo m ne
matter pertinent to the issue. But if he testify to any new matter,
not responsive to the inquiries put to him by the adverse party, or
necessary to explain or qualify his answer t hereto; or to discharge
when his answer would charge himself, such adverse party may
offer himself as a witness on his own behalf in respect to such new
matter, and shall be received.
SEC. 24. A person for whose immediate benefit the action is
prosecuted or defended, though not a party to the action, may be
examined as a witness in the same manner, and subject to the samc
rules of examination as if lie were named as a party.
TITLE IV.
Of Depositions taken in the Territory.
. 25. Depositions when taken.
20. Depositions before whom taken; notice to be given.
27. Oath and examination of witnesses.
28. Deposition how taken.
29. Deposition to whon sent.
30. Deposition how received in evidence.
31. Deposition when not to be used.
32. When deposition taken in one action may be used in another action.
33. Deposition in court below, may be used in appellate court.
34. When person may be compelled to give deposition.
SEC. 25. The testimony of a witness in this territory, may be
taken by deposition, to be read in evidence in any action, suit or
proceeding commenced and pending in any court in this territory, in the following cases:
1. When the witness resides out of the county, and more than
twenty miles from the place of trial;
2. When the witness is about to leave the county and go more
than twenty miles from the place of trial, and there is a probability
that he will continue absent when the testimony is required;
8. When the witness is sick, infirm or aged, as to make it probable
that he will not be able to attend at the trial.
SEc. 26. Either party may have the deposition of a witness taken in this territory, before any judge of the district court, jus- tice of the peace, clerk of the supreme or district courts, master in
chancery, mayor of a city or notary public, on serving upon the
adverse party, or his attorney of record, previous notice of the
time and place of examination. Such notice shall be at least three days, and in addition one day, Sundqys excepted, for every twenty miles of the distance of the place of examination, from the residence
of the person to whom notice is given, unless for a cause shown, a
judge of the district court prescribe a shorter time. When a
shorter time is prescribed, a copy of the order shall be served with
the notice.
SEc. 27. Before proceeding to the examination, the witness shall be sworn by the officer taking the deposition, to testify the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, relating to the cause
for which such deposition is taken; he shall then be examined by
the parties, or their attorneys, if they shall think fit, or by the
officer, either upon verbal or written interrogatories, on all the
points which they shall deem material.
SEC. 28. The deposition shall be written by the officer taking the same, or by the witness, or by some disinterested person in the presence and under the direction of such officer. When completed
it shall be carefully read to, or by the witness, corrected if desired,
and subscribed by him, and certified by the officer substantially as
follows:
Territory of Oregon, }
County of f '
I, A. B., justice of the peace, in and for the said county, (or judge, clerk, &c., as the case may be,) do hereby certify that the above deposition was taken before me, and
reduced to writing by myself (or witness, &c., as the case may be,)
at - in said county, on the - day of -- , 18-, at
- o'clock, in pursuance of notice, that the above-named witness,
before examination, was sworn (or affirmed) to testify the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, and that the said deposition
was carefully read to (or by) said witness, and then subscribed
by him.
Dated at , the day of - , 18-.
A. B., Justice of the Peace.
SEc. 29. The deposition shall be enclosed and sealed by the officer taking the same, and directed to the clerk of the court, arbi- trators, referees, or justice of the peace, before whom the action is
pending, or to such person as the parties in writing may agree
upon, and either delivered to the clerk of the court, or other person,
or transmitted through the mail or by some private opportunity.
SEC. 30. Such deposition my be used by either party, upon the
trial or other proceeding against any party giving or receiving the
notice, subject to all legal exceptions, to the competency or credibility
of the witness, or the manner of taking the deposition. But
if the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form
of an interrogatory shall be made At the trial, unless the same was
taken at the time of the examination.
SEC. 31. No deposition shall be used if it shall appear that the
reason for taking it no longer exists; provided however, that if the
party producing the deposition in such case, shall show any sufficient
cause then existing for using such deposition, it may be
admitted.
SEC. 32. When the plaintifff in any action shall discontinue it, or when it shall be dismissed for any cause, and another action
shall afterwards be commenced for the same cause, between the
same parties or their respective representatives, all depositions
lawfully taken in the first action, may be used in the other, in the
same manner and subject to the same conditions and objections as
if originally taken for such action; provided, that the deposition
shall have been duly filed in the court where the first action was
pending, and shall remain in the custody of the court, from the
termination of the first action until the commencement of the
other.
SEC. 33. When an action shall have been appealed from one court to another, all depositions lawfully taken to be used in the
court below, may be used in the appellate court in the same manner,
and subject to such exceptions for informality or irregularity,
and none other, as were taken to such depositions in writing in the
court below.
SEC. 34. Any witness may be subpoenaed and compelled by any
Officer authorized to take depositions, to appear and give his deposition
at any place within twenty miles of the abode of such witness,
in like manner and under the same penalties as he may be
subpcened and compelled to attend as a witness in any court.
TITLE V.
Of Depositions taken out of the Territory.
. 85. Depositions may be taken out of Territory.
36. Commission how to issue.
37. Interrogatories, how settled.
38. Authority of commissioner.
39. Trial not to be postponed by reason of commission not returned, except &a.
SEC. 35. The testimony of a witness out of this territory may be
taken by deposition, to be read in evidence in any action, suit or
proceeding pending in any court in this territory.
SEC. 36. The deposition of a witness out of the territory, shall
be taken upon a commission issued by the clerk under the seal of
the court, upon an order of the court, or a judge thereof, which
order may be made on the application of either party, upon giving
to the adverse party ten days' previous notice in writing, together with a copy of the interrogatories intended to be put to such witness.
It shall be issued to a person or persons, not exceeding three
in number, agreed upon by the parbies, or if they do not agree, to
any judge, justice of the peace, notary public, or other competent
person selected by the court or judge granting the order for the
commission. I
SEC. 37. Such proper interrogatories, as well on part of the plain- as on part of the defendant, as the respective parties may pre- pare, to be settled if they disagree as to form, by the court or
judge thereof granting the order for the commission, shall be annexed
to the commission; or where the parties agree .to that mode,
the examination may be without written interrogatories.
SEC. 38. The commission shall authorize the commissioner or commissioners to administer an oath to the witness, and to take
his deposition in answer to the several interrogatories annexed to
such commission, or when the examination is to be without interrogatories
in respect to the question in dispute; to certify the deposition
to the court; and to direct it to the clerk of the court, or
such other person designated or agreed upon, and forward it to
him by mail or other usual channel of conveyance.
SEC. 39. A trial or other proceeding shall not be postponed by reason of a commission not returned, except upon affidavit or other evidence satisfactory to the court, that the testimony of the witness is necessary, and that proper diligence has been used to obtain it. 
TITLE VI.
Of Proceedings to Perpetuate Testimony.
. 40. Tostimony how perpetuated.
41. Proceedings of court preparatory to hearing application.
42. Commission, when to issue.
43. Deposition, how taken.
44. Deposition, where filed, where used.
SEc. 40. When any person shall be desirous to perpetuate the testimony of any witness, he shall make a statement in writing, setting forth briefly and substantially his, title, claim, or,interest in or to the subject concerning which he desires to perpetuate the
evidence, and the names of all persons interested or supposed to be
interested therein; and also the name of the witness proposed to
examined, which statement shall be under oath and filed in the
district court. If the subject of the proposed deposition relate to
real estate within this territory, the statement shall be filed in the
county where the lands, or any part thereof lie, otherwise in the
county wyhere the 'parties, or some of them, reside. Upon such
statement, an application may be made to such court, or a judge
thereof1 to allow the examination of such witness.
SEC. 41. The court or judge shall appoint a time and place for hearing such application, and shall order notice thereof, and of the statement to be served on all persons mentioned therein, as adverse- ly interested in the matter. The notice shall be served personally
on all those living in the territory, at least twenty days before
the time of hearing the application. Upon those who are not
residents of the territory, it shall be served by publication,' or
otherwise, in the same manner as a summons is served upon a nonresident.
SEc. 42. If upon such hearing of the parties, or of the applicant
alone, should no adverse party appear, the court or judge shall be
satisfied that there is sufficient cause for taking the deposition, an
order shall be made, allowing the examination of the witness; and
such court or judge shall direct a commission to issue therefore, in
like manner as a commission to take the testimony of witnesses in
other cases.
43Th
SEc. 43. The deposition of such witness, whother residing in
this territory or not, shall be taken upon written interrogatories,
filed by the applicant, and cross interrogatories filed by any party
adversely interested, if he shall think fit; and it shall be taken and
returned substantially in the same manner as if taken upon commission,
to be used in any cause pending in the same court.
SEc. 44. The deposition, when returned, shall be filed in the
office of the clerk of the court by whom the commission was issued,
and if a trial be bad between the person at whose request the deposition
was taken, and the persons named in the statement, or
any of them, or their successors in interest, upon proof of the death
or insanity of the witness, or of his inability to attend the trial, by
reason of age, sickness or settled infirmity, the deposition, or a
certified copy thereof, may be used by either party, subject to all
legal objections. But if the parties attend at the examination, no
objection to the form of the interrogatory shall be made at the
trial, unless the same were taken at the time of the examination.
TITLE VII.
Prom'sions relating to Records, Documents, and ofter WrIitings.
SEo. 45. Inspection of documents how obtained.
40. Alterations in written instruments to be explained.
47. Records of foreign courts how to be authenticated.
48. Certified copies of deeds, &c., when received in evidence.
49. Copies of papers in certain territorial offices, when evidence.
50. Certificate of residence, when evidence.
51. Seal of office how nffixed.
52. Foreign Statues when evidence.
SEC. 45. Any court in which an action is pending, or a judge
thereof, may, upon notice, order either party to give to the other
within a specified time, an inspection and copy, or permission to
take a copy of any book, document or paper in his possession, or
under his control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the
action or the defense therein. If compliance with the order be
refused, the court may exclude the book, document, or paper from
being given in evidence; or if wanted as evidence, by the party
applying, may direct the jury to presume it to be such as he alleges
it to be; and the court may also punish the party refusing -as for
a contempt. This section shall not be construed to prevent a
party from compelling another to produce books, papers or documents,
when he is examined as a witness.
SEC. 46. Any party producing a writing as genuine, which has
been altered or appears to have been altered after its execution, in
a part material to the question in dispute, and such alteration is not noted in the writing, shall account for the appearance or alteration.
He may show that the alteration was made by another without his
concurrence, or was made with the consent of the parties affected
by it, or otherwise properly or innocently made. If he do that, he
may give the writing in evidence, but not otherwise.
SEC. 47. The records and proceedings of any court of the United States, or of any state or territory, shall be admissible in evidence, in all cases in this territory, when authenticated by the attestation
of the clerk, prothonotary or other officer having charge of the records
of such court, with the seal of such court annexed.
SEC. 48. Whenever any deed, conveyance, mortgage, bond or other writing, shall have been recorded or filed in pursuance of law, copies of such deed, conveyance, mortgage, bond or other writing,
duly certified by the officer having the lawful custody thereof, with
the seal of office annexed, shall be received in evidence to all intents
and purposes, as the originals themselves.
SEC. 49. Copies of all papers on file in the offices of the survey- or-general, of Oregon, secretary of Oregon territory, territorial treasurer, territorial auditor, and any county treasurer, or any matter recorded in either of the said offices, duly certified.by the
respective officers, with the respective seals of office annexed, shall
be evidence in all the courts of this territory.
SEC. 50. Any certificate of residence and cultivation upon the public lands, issued by the surveyor-general of Oregon in pursu- ance of law, shall be evidence in all courts in this territory.
SEC. 51. A seal of a court or public office, when required to any writ, process or proceeding, or to authenticate a copy of any record, or document, may be affixed by making an impression directly on
the paper, which shall be as valid as if made upon a wafer or on wax.
SEC. 52. Printed copies of the statute laws of any state, territory, or foreign government, if purporting to have been published under the authority of the respective governments, or if commonly admitted
and read as evidence in their courts, shall be admitted in all
courts in this territory, and on all other occasions as presumptive
evidence of such laws.
CHAPTER V.
WRITS OF ERROR.
88. 1. What judgments re-examinable on writs of error.
2. Time for prosecuting such writ.
3. Writ of error when deemed to have been issued.
4. Notice by clerk to defendant.
5. Notice how served.
G. Transcript, what to contain.
1. Time of assigning errors, and filing joinders.
8, Judgment may be set aside, reversed, alflirmed, or modified.
9. Additional undertaking to pay judgment damages, &c.
10. Form of undertaking.
11. Proceedings in case of death, &c., of parties, after filing undertaking,
12. Persons who may prosecute writ of error.
13. Sale of land in certain cases, not to be affected by reversal, &e.
14. Supreme court when equally divided, cause to stand over.
15. Special verdict when directed.
SEC. 1. Every final judgment, order or decision of a district court
except in chancery, may be re-examined upon a writ of error; in
the same court for error in fact, and in, the supreme court for error
in law.
SEC. 2. Every such writ shall be prosecuted within two years and
not after. But if the party entitled to have such writ, shall be absent
from the territory, and shall not have been personally served
with process, nor appeared to the action, or if such party be an infant,
married woman or imprisoned or insane, then such writ may
be prosecuted within two years from the removal of such disability
and not after; provided that the absence from the territory shall
not entitle the party to a longer time than five years; the time
limited shall include the day on which the judgment is rendered
or the order or decision is made, or on which the disability ceases.
SEC. 3. A writ of error shall be deemed to have issued on the
day on Which the plaintifff in error shall file in the office of the
clerk, of the district court, when the record is a written undertaking,
executed by two sureties, to be approved by the clerk for the
payment of all the costs of such proceeding; and it shall not be necessary
in any stage of the proceedings, actually to sue out the writ
of error.
SEC. 4. On the filing of such undertaking, the clerk shall issue a
notice to the defendant in error, under the seal of the court, speci- fying the court in which, and the time when he is to appear to protect
his interests: and if the priecipe direct the writ of error to be
made returnable to the supreme court, lie shall send thither a tianscript
of the record under the seal of the court. Such notice may
be as nearly as applicable, in the following form:
Territory of Oregon,
County of f'
To C- DForm
You are hereby notified that A. B. has sued out a writ of error
from .the supreme court, to recover the judgment of the district
court of said county, given in your favor against the said A. B., at
the term of 18- ; and unless you appear in the said
supreme court on the - Monday of - - , 18-, the
cause will be heard in your absence.
Witness the seal of the said district court, the[SEAL.] day of , 18-.
E. F., Clerk.
SEC. 5. The notice may be served on the defendant in error or
his attorney of record, by any sheriff within his county, and shall
be by delivering him a copy thereof, or it may be served by any
other disinterested person; and the return of the sheriff indorsed
thereon, or the affidavit of such other disinterested person shall be
evidence thereof, and if served. ten days before the return day, the
cause may be heard at that term. If returned not found, the court
of error may make such order for the service or publication of nocation.
tice, as shall appear most likely in the particular case, to convey a
knowledge of the proceeding to the defendant in error, and may
then proceed as if the notice had been personally served.
SEC. 6. The transcript shall contain a copy of the writ, and re- turn, the pleadings, the journal entries and bills of exception, the execution and return, and such other matters as the court or judge
shall have ordered to be made part of the record. Either party may have a certiorari to supply any diminution of the record.
SEC. 7. The court of error may affix the time for assigning errors and filing joinders. If errors in law be assigned, no joinder shall necessary. One or more errors in fact may be assigned, and the
defendant may put in the common joinder as a demurrer thereto,
or may traverse or confess, and avoid the facts assigned for error,
and a separate issue shall be made on each.
SEc. 8. The judgment, or other matter complained of, may be affirmed, or may be reversed or set aside in whole or in part, or may be modified, or a different judgment or order may be substi- tuted for that complained of, and the cause may be remitted to the
district court, for such further proceedings as the supreme court by
mandate shall direct, Execution may issue from the supreme court,
or its judgments may be executed by the district court on a mandate
for that purpose. 
SEc. 9. If the undertaking for costs contain an additional under- taking to pay the judgment, if affirmed, and damages, or any new or modified judgment that may be given against the plaintifff in error,
then all further proceedings by way of executing the judgment,
shall forthwith cease ubtil the further order of the court of error.
In such case, if the judgment be affirmed or modified, or any new
judgment be given against the plaintifff in error, damages may be awarded to the defendant in error, not exceeding ten per cent., upon the amount of the judgment, exclusive of interest and costs,
if it manifestly appears that the proceeding was without probable
cause, and merely for delay. And in cases where judgment is ren- dered against the plaintifff in error, judgment shall also be rendered against the sureties in the undertaking, to the extent of their liabil- ity, and execution shall issue against them accordingly.
SEC. 10. The undertaking for a writ of error may be in the following
form:
As District Court, County of - - . Judgment
0.. at -- term, 18-.
We promise to pay all costs that may be awarded against A. B. on his writ of error in this cause, (and also the judgment if affirmed, and the damages, or any new or modified judgment that may be
given against him.)
E. F.
G. I.
SEc. 11. If after the undertaking be filed, either party shall die, or being a single woman shall marry, the proper persons may on motion be made parties, and the cause shall proceed to j udgment.
SEC. 12. Any person who may be a party or privy in any judg ment, order or decision, may prosecute a writ of error to reverse the same, and the reversal shallinure to the benefit of all parties and privies therein; and no other party or privy shall afterwards
prosecute a writ of error for the same cause.
SEC. 13. The reversal of a judgment, order or decision shall not
affect the title of property sold upon an execution issued upon
such judgment, order or decision, if such property be purchased at the sale by a stranger, the plaintifff but if purchased by the judgment creditor, in error may' bring an action for the recovery thereof,
and the court may award restitution or render such other judgment
as justice shall require.
SEc. 14. When the supreme court shall be equally divided in
opinion, the cause shall stand continued until all the judges are
present.
SEC. 15. Whenever on the trial of an action at law in the dis- .
trict court, it shall be found to turn on important or doubtful principles
of law, the court may direct a special verdict to be found;
and in all cases the parties may agree upon the facts, and such
agreementu in writing, signed by the parties or their attorneys, shall
be made part of the record; and all questions of law arising on
special verdicts, agreed cases, motions for new trials, and all others
in any manner arising in the district courts, in law or equity, may
be adjourned into the supreme court for decision; and the supreme
court may give judgment, or remand the cause, or make any order
according to the law and justice of the case.
CHAPTER VI.
OF MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS IN ACTIONS AT LAW.
. 1. Definition of an order and motion.
2 & 3. Motions and orders how and when made.
4. When notice is necessary it must be ten days before hearing.
5 & 6. Notice and other papers how served.
I & 8. Service by mail, how made.
9. When papers need not be served on defendant.
10. Service when party resides out of territory.
ii. Party, under this chapter not liable to contempt.
12. Afildavits, &c., defectively entitled, valid.
13. Time how computed.
14. Debts barred by lapse of timosin other states.
SEC. 1. Every direction of a court or judge made or entered in
writing and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order.
Au application for an order is a motion.
EC. 2. Motions may be made to the court at term, or to a judge
in vacation, unless otherwise provided by statute.
SEC. 3. Motions shall be made within the district in which the
action is triable. Orders made out of court, without notice, may
be made by a judge of the court in which the action is brought in
any part of the territory. No order to stay proceedings for a
longer time than twenty days, shall be granted by a judge out of
court, except upon previous notice to the adverse party.
SEC. 4. When a notice of a motion is necessary, it shall be
served ten days before the time appointed for hearing; but the
court or judge may, by an order to show cause, prescribe a shorter
time.
SEC. 5. Notice shall be in writing, and notices and other papers
may be served on the party or attorney, in the manner precoribed in the next three sections, where not otherwise provided by statute. 
SEC. 6. The service may be personal, by delivery to the party or attorney on whom the service is required to be made, or it may be
as follows:
1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence from his office, by leaving the notice or other papers with his clerk
therein, or with a person having charge thereof; or where there
is no person in the office, by leaving them between the hours of
six iii the morning and nine in the evening, in a conspicuous place
in the office, or if it be not open, so as to admit of such service,
then by leaving them at the attorney's residence, with some person
of suitable age and discretion;
2. If upon a party, it, may be made, by leaving the notice or other papers at his residence, between the hours of six in the morning, and nine in the evening, with some person of suitable
age and discretion.
SEC. 7. Service by mail may be made, where the person making the service, and the person on whom it is to be mitde, reside in different places between which there is a regular communication
by mail.
SEC. 8. In case of service by mail, the notice or other paper shall be deposited in the post office, addressed to the person on whom it is to be served, at his place of residence, and the postage
paid; and in such case, the time of service shall be double that
required in case of personal service.
SEC. 9. Where a defendant shall not have demurred, answered, given the plaintifff or his attorney written notice of his appear- ance, service of notice or papers in the ordinary proceedings in an action, need not be made upon him, unless he be imprisoned for
want of bail.
SEC. 10. Where a plaintifff or a defendant who has demurred, answered, or given notice of his appearance, resides out of the terri- tofy, and has no attorney in the action, the service may be made by mail, if his residence be known, if not known, on the clerk for
the party.
SEC. 11. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the service of a summons, or other process, or of any paper to bring a into contempt.
SEC. 12. An affidavit, notice, or other paper, without the title of the action or proceeding in which it is made, or with a defective shall be as valid and effectual for every purpose as if duly en- titled, if it intelligibly refer to the action or proceeding in which it
is made.
SEc. 13. The time within which an act is tobe done, as provided in this chapter, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
SEc. 14. When a cause of action has arisen in another state or territory, or in a foreign country, and by the laws thereof, an action thereon cannot there be maintained against a person, by reason of lapse of time, an action shall not be maintained against him in this
territory, except in favor of a citizen thereof, who has held the cause
of action from the time it accrued.
CHAPTER VII.
OF SET-OFF IN ACTIONS AT LAW.
SEO. 1. Set-ofis, when allowed.
2. Against plaintifff or assignor of contract.
3. Against assignor of bills of exchange.
4. Against persons beneficially interested.
5. Set-offin actions brought by executors, &a.
G. Proceedings when balance is found for defendant.
7. Set-offs by trustees, &c.
8. Defendant must plead setof.
9. When set-ofrs equal or exceed plaintifff's demand.
10. Judgment when to be rendered against plaintifff.
SEC. 1. In the following cases, and under the following circumstances,
a defendant, in an action at law, may set off demands which.
he has against the plaintifff:
1. It must be a demand arising upon judgment, or upon contract, express or implied, whether such contract be written or unwritten,
sealed or without seal; and if it be founded upon a bond or other
contract having a penalty, the sum equitably due, by virtue of its condition only siall be set off;
2. It must be due to him in his own right, either as being the
original creditor or payee, or as being the assignee or owner of the
demand;
3. It must be a demand for property sold, for money paid, or for
services done; or if it be not such a demand; the amount must be liquidated, or be capable of being ascertained by calculation;
4. It must have existed at the time of the commencement of the action, and must then have belonged to the defendant;
5. It shall be allowed only in actions founded upon demands
which could themselves be the subject of set-off; according to law;
6. If there be several defendants the demands set off must be due
to all of them jointly;
7. It must be a demand existing against the plaintifff in the action, unless the action be brought in the name of a plaintifff who
has no real interest in the contract upon which the action is founded;
in which case no set-off of a demand against the plaintifff shall
be allowed, unless as hereinafter specified.
SEc. 2. If the action be founded upon a contract, other than a
negotiable promissory note, or bill of exchange which has been assigned
to the plaintifff; a demand existing against such plaintifff, or
any assignor of such contract at the time of the assignment thereof,
and belonging to the defendant in good faith before notice of such
assignment, may be set off to the amount of the plaintifff's debt, if the
demand be such as might have been set off against such assignor,
while the contract belonged to him.
SEC. 3. If the action be upon a negotiable promissory note, or
bill of exchange assigned to the plaintifff after it became due, a setoff
to the amount of the plaintifff s debt may be made of a demand
existing against'any person or persons who shall have assigned or
transferred such note or bill after it became due, if the demand be
such as might have been set off against the assignor while the note
or bill belonged to him.
SEC. 4. If the plaintifff be a trustee for any other, or if the action be in the name of a plaintifff who has no real interest in the contract
upon which the acion is founded, so much of a demand exist- ing against those whom the plaintifff represents, or for whose benefit the action is brought, may be set off, as will satisfy the plaintifffs debt, if the same might have been set off in an action brought by
those beneficially interested.
SEC. 5. In actions brought by executors and administrators, demands against their testators or intestates, and belonging to de- fendant at the time of their death,may be set off by the defendant, in the same manner as if the action had been brought by, and in the name of the deceased.
SEc. 6. When 4 set-off shall be established in an action brought by 'executors or administrators, and a balance found due to the defendant, the judgment rendered therefore against the plaintifffs,
shall have the same effect as if the action had been originally commenced.
by the defendant.
SEc. 7. In actions against executors and administrators, and against trustees and others sued in their representative character, the defendants may set off demands belonging to their testators or
intestates, or those whom they represent, in the same manner as
the persons so represented would have been entitled to set off the
same, in an action against them.
SEC. 8. To entitle a defendant to a set-off he must set the same forth in his answer.
SEC. 9. If the amount of the set-off, duly established, be equal to the plaintifff's debt or demand, judgment shall be entered that the plaintifff take nothing by his action: if it be less than the plain. debt or demand, the plaintifff shall have judgment for the
residue only.
SEC. 10. If there be found a balance due from the plaintifff in the action, to the defendant, judgment shall be rendered in favor of the defendant for the amount thereof; but no such judgment
shall be rendered against the plaintifff, when the contract which is
the subject of the action, shall have been assigned before the commencement
of such action, nor for any balance due from any other
person than the plaintifff in the action.
CHAPTER VIII.
OF COSTS IN ACTIONS AT LAW.
. 1. Allowance, when termed costs.
2. Costs, when allowed of course to plaintifff.
3. Costs, when several actions are brought on one contract
4. Costs, when allowed defendant.
6. When to one or more of several defendants.
6. Amount of costs allowed to either party.
7. Disbursements, in addition to costs.
8. Referee's fees.
9. Costs on postponement of trial.
10. Costs not allowed when tender has been made.
11. Plaintit' when to pay costs from time of deposit, &c., by defendant.
12. Appellant from decision of a justico,'when to pay costs.
Sec. 13. Guardian responsible for costs.
14. Costs by and against executors, &c.
15. Costs against assigneo.
10. Costs against territory or county.
17. Costs on appeal in special pleading.
18 & 19. Costs, when in discretion of court.
20. Costs may be re-taxed on application.
21. When security for costs may be required by defendant.
22. Affidavit by sureties on undertaking.
23. Timo this act takes oflect.
SEC. 1. The measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and
counsellors shall be left to the agreement, express or implied, of
the partics ; but there may be allowed to the prevailing party upon
the judgment, certain sums by way of indemnity for his expenses
in the action, which.allowances are termed costs.
SEC. 2. Costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintifff upon a
judgment in his favor, in the following cases:
1. In an action for the recovery of real property, or when a claim
of title to real property arises on the pleadings, or is certified by
the court to have come in question at the trial;
2. In an action to recover the possession of personal property,
when the value of the property amounts to fifty dollars or more;
such value shall be determined by the jury, court or referee by
whom the action is tried;
3. In an action for the recovery of money or damages, when the
plaintifff shall recover fifty dollars or more;
4. In the actions of which a justice of the peace has not jurisdiction
; but in ant action for assault, battery, false imprisonment, libel,
slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversation, or seduction,
in which a justice of the peace-has not jurisdiction, if the plaintifff
recover less than fifty dollars damages, he shall recover no more
costs than damages.
SEC. 3. When several actions are brought on one bond, under.
t'aknking, promissory note, bill of exchange or other instrument in
writing, or in any other case for the same cause of action against
several parties who might have been joined as.defendants in the
same action, no costs shall be allowed to the plaintifff in more than
one of such' actions, which may be at his election, if the parties pro.
ceeded against in the other actions were, at the commencement of
the previous action, openly within this territory; but the disbursements
of the plaintifff shall be allowed in each action.
SEc. 4. Costs shall be allowed of course to the defendant in the actions mentioned in the second section, unless the plaintifff be entitled to costs therein.
SEC. 5. In all actions where there are several defendants not
united in interest, and making separate defenses by separate answers, and the plaintifff fails to recover judgment against all, the
court may award costs to such of the defendants as have judgment
in their favor, or any of them.
SEC. 6. \When allowed to either party, costs shall be as follows: 1. In all actions settled before issue is joined, five dollars; 2. In all actions when judgment is rendered without a jury, ten
dollars;
3. In all actions when judgment is rendered after empanneling
jury, fifteen dollars;
4. In all actions removed to the supreme court, and settled be. fore argument, ten dollars;
5. In all actions when judgment is rendered in the supreme
court, after argument, fifteen dollars.
SEc. 7. The prevailing party, in addition to the allowances for as provided in the last section, shall also be allowed for all necessary disbursements, including the fees of officers allowed by law, the fees of witnesses, the necessary expenses of taking deposi
tions by commission or otherwise, the compensation of referees, and
the expense of printing the papers upon an appeal. The disbursements
shall be stated in detail, and verilied by etfidavit, which shall
be filed with the clerk of the court.
SEc. 8. The fees of referees shall be four dollars to each for every day spent in the business of the reference, but the parties may agree in writing upon any other rate of compensation, and thereupon
such rate shall be allowed.
SEc. 9. When an application shall be made to a court or referees to postpone a trial, the payment to the adverse party of a sum not exceeding ten dollars, besides the fees of witnesses, may be imposed.trial.
as the condition of granting the postponement.
SEc. 10. When in an action for the recovery of money only, the alleges in his answer that, before the commencement of the action, he tendered to the plaintifff the full amount to which be
was entitled, in such specie as by agreement ought to be tendered,
and thereupon brings into court for the plaintifff, if in money, the
amount so tendered, and the allegation be found true, the plaintifff
shall not recover costs, but shall pay them to the defendant.
SEC. 11. If the defendant in any action pending, shall at any time deposit with the clerk of the court for the plaintifff the amount which he admits to be due, together with all costs that have ac- crued, and notify the plaintiffV thereof, and such plaintifff shall refuse
to accept the same in discharge of the action, and shall not
afterwards recover a larger amount than that deposited with the
clerk, exclusive of interest and cost, he shall pay all costs that may
accrue from the time such money was so deposited.
SEC. 12. In all civil actions tried before a justice of the peace, in which an appeal shall be taken to the district court, and the party appellant shall not recover a more favorable judgment in the dis. trict court, than before the justice of the peace, such appellant shall pay all costs accruing after the appeal.
SEC. 13. When costs are adjudged against an infant plaintifff, the guardian by whom he appeared in the action, shall be respon- therefore, and plyment thereof may be enforced by attachment.
SEC. 14. In an action prosecuted or defended by ai executor, administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly by statute, costs shall be recovered, as in an action by
or against a person prosecuting or defending in his own right, but
such costs shall be chargeable only upon, or collected off the
estate, fund or party represented, unless the court shall direct the
same to be paid by the plaintifff or defendant personally, for mismanagement
or bad faith in such action or defense.
SEC. 15. When the cause of action after the commencement of
the action by assignment, or in any other manner, becomes. the
property of a person not a party thereto, and the prosecution or
defense is thereafter continued, such person shall be liable for
the costs, in the same manner as if he were a party, and payment
thereof may be enforced by attachment.
SEC. 16. In all actions prosecuted in the name, and for the use
of the territory, or in the name and for the use of any county, the
territory or county shall be liable for costs in the same cases and
to the same extent as private parties,
SEc. 17. When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdiction in an action of special proceeding, is brought before the supreme
court, or a district court for review, such proceedings shall, for
purposes of costs, be deemed an action at issue upon a question of
law, from the time the same is brought into the supreme court or
district court, and costs thereon may be awarded and collected in
such manner as the court shall direct according to the nature of
the case.
SEC. 18. In the following cases the costs of an appeal to the supreme court, shall be in the discretion of the court:
1. When a new trial shall be ordered;
2. When a judgment shall be affirmed in part and reversed in
part.
SEC. 19. In all other actions and proceedings than those men- ti.oned iin this chapter, where no provision is made for the recovery
of costs, they may be allowed or not, and if allowed may be apportioned
between the parties, in the discretion of the court.
SEC. 20. Any party aggrieved by the taxation of costs by the clerk of the court, may, upon application, have the same re-taxed
by the court in which the action or proceeding is had.
SEC. 21. When the plaintifff in an action resides out of the terriaty
ritory, or is a foreign corporation, security for the costs and charges
nedbYw hich may be awarded against such plaintifff, may be required by
the defendant. When required, all proceedings in the action shall
be stayed, until an undertaking, executed -by two or more persons
be filed with the clerk, to the effect that they will pay such costs
and charges as may be awarded against the plaintifff by judgment,
or in the progress of the action, not exceeding the sum of two
hundred dollars. A new or an additional undertaking may be
ordered by the court or judge, upon proof that the original undertaking
is insufficient security, and proceedings in the action stayed
until such nev or additional undertaking be executed and filed.
SEC. 22. Each of the sureties on the undertaking mentioned in
the last section, shall annex to the same an affidavit that he is a
resident of \the county, and worth double the amount specified in
the undertaking, over and above all his just debts and liabilities,
exclusive of property exempt from execution. The plaintifff may
deposit with the clerk the sum of two hundred dollars in lieu of an
undertaking, as required by the last section.
SEC. 23. This act shall take effect, and be in force from and after
the first day of May next. Passed Jan. 7th, 1854.

CHAPTER I.
ACTIONS TO RECOVER THE POSSESSION OF REAL PROPERTY.
TITE I. Of Actions to Recover the Possession of Real Properiy.
TITLE II. Of Actions for N~uisances, 1raste and Trespasses on Real
Property.
TITLE I.
Of Actions to Recover the Possession of Real Property.
Sec. 1. Who may be plaintifffs for the recovery of real property.
2. Substitution of landlord for tenant.
3. Proceedings against a non-resident.
4. Complaint, what to contain.
5. Answer, what to contain.
6. Judgment against tenant, when conclusive against landlord.
7. When plaintifff entitled to damages.
8. Judgment when plaintifff's right of property expires before trial.
9. Whon improvements may be set off against damages.
10. Order to survey property.
11. Order, what to contain.
12. Alienations by defendant nqt to prejudice action.
13. Mortgage not convoyance.
14. Stay of proceedings on payment of rent, &c., by tenant.
SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the Territory Of Oregon, Any person having a valid subsisting interest in real pro- perty, and a right to the possession thereof, may recover the same by action, which may be brought against any person acting as owner, landlord or tenant of the property claimed. 
SEc. 2. Whenever it appears that the defendant is only a tenant, the landlord may be substituted after tcn days' notice to him that such action is pending, or upon such further notice as the court or
judge thereof may think proper.
SEC. 3. When the defendant is a non-resident, service of the summons may be made upon his agent for the property residing in this territory, with the like effect as though made upon the
principal, or service may be made by publication as in other cases.
SEC. 4. The plaintifff in his complaint shall state that he is en- titled to the possession of the property, particularly describing it;
the interest he claims therein; and that the defendant unlawfully
keeps him out of the possession, and the damages, if any, which
he claims for withholding the property.
SEC. 5. The answer of the defendant shall set forth under what claim of right, if any, he holds possession, and if as tenant, the
name and residence of his landlord shall be given, and if he does
not defend for the whole of the property, he shall specify for what
particular part he does defend.
SEC. 6. In an action against a tenant, the judgment shall be conclusive against a landlord who has receiv6d notice as hereinbe- providd.
SEC. 7. If the plaintifff prevail in an action for the recovery of
real property, he shall also in the same action be entitled to recover
damages for withholding the property.
SEC. 8. If the right of the plaintifff to the possession of the proprolert
perty expire after the commencement of the action, and before the
trial, the verdict shall be returned according to the fact, and judgment
shall be entered only for the damages and costs.
SEC. 9. When damages are claimed for withholding the property
recovered, upon which permanent improvements have been made
by the defendant, or those under whom he claims, holding under
color of title adversely to the claims of the plaintifff in good faith,
the value of such improvements shall be allowed as a set-off
against such damages.
SEC. 10. The court or judge thereof, on motion, and after notice
to the opposite party, may, for cause shown, grant an order allowing
the party applying therefore to enter 'upon the property in controversy,
and make survey and admeasurement thereof, for the
purposes of the action.
SEC. 11. The order shall describe the property, and a copy
thereof shall be served upon the owner or occupant, and thereupon
the party may enter upon the property, and make such survey and
admeasurement, but if any unnecessary injury be done to the
premises, he shall be liable therefore.
SEC. 12. An action for the recovery of real property against a
person in possession, cannot be prejudiced by any alienation made
by such person, either before or after the commencement of the
action.
SEC. 13. A mortgage of real property shall not be deemed a conveyance, so as to enable the owner of tbe.mortgage to recover
possession of the real property without a foreclosure dind sale according
to law.
SEC. 14. When in case of a lease of real property, and the failpyet
ure of the tenant to pay rent, the landlord has a right to re-enter
for such failure, be may bring an action to recover possession of
the property, but if at any time before judgment in such action,
the lessee or his successor in interest pay to the plaintifff, or bring
into court the amount of rent then in arrear with interest, and the
costs of the action, and perform the other covenants or agreements
on the part of the lessee, he shall be entitled to the possession, according
to the terms of the lease.
TITLE II.
Actions for Yuisances, WlFaste and Tres passes on .?eal Property.
. 15. Actions for nuisance, by whom brought.
16. Triple damages when in certain cases of waste.
17. Triple damages in certain cases of trespass.
18. Exceptions of certain cases.
19. Liability of tenant in possession to purchaset on execution.
SEC. 15. Anything which is injurious to health or indecent, or
offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property,
so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property,
is a nuisance, and the subject of an action. Such action may
be brought by any person whose property is injuriously affected, or whose personal enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance, and by the
judgment the nuisance may be enjoined or abated, as well as
damages recovered.
SEC. 16. If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint tenant or tenant in common of real property, commit waste thereon, any per- son injured by the waste may bring an action against him therefore, in which action there may be judgment for treble damages.
SEC. 17. Every person who shall willfully cut down, girdle, or . . . , I otherwise injure any tree, timber or shrub on the land of another person, or in the street or highway in front of any person's house, village or city lot, or cultivated grounds, or on the commons or public grounds of any city, or town, or on the street or highway thereof, without lawful authority, shall be liable to the owner of
such land, or to such city or town, for treble the amount of damages
which may be assessed therefore, in an action in any court having
jurisdiction. ,
SEc. 18. If upon the trial of such action, it shall appear that the trespass was casual or involuntary, or that the defendant had pro- bable cause to believe that the land on which such trespass was
committed, was his own, or that of the person in whose service, or
by whose direction the act was done, or that such tree or timber
was taken for the purpose of making or repairing any public highway
or bridge, judgment shall be given for only the single damages
assessed in the action.
SEC. 19. When real property shall have been sold on execution, the purchaser thereof, or any person who may have succeeded to his interest, may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover dam- ages for injury to the property by the tenant in possession after the
sale, and before possession is delivered under the conveyance.
CHAPTER II.
ACTIONS FOR THE PARTITION OF REAL PROPERTY.
SEO. 1. Who may apply for partition and to what court.
2. Complaint, what to contain.
3. Persons having liens, when to be parties.
4. Summons, how directed.
6. Publication of summons to unknown or absent parties.
0. Answer of defendant, what to contain.
7. Rights of the several parties in issue: ascertainment of title in case of sale.
8. Plaintiff to produce certificate of recorder, and clerk of district court.
9. Persons having liens, &e., to be made parties.
10. Service of notice on persons holding liens, not parties.
11. Order of sale, when made; when partition ordered.
12. Oath of referees to be filed.
13. Partition, how made.
14. Report of referees.
15. Setting aside report, &c. Judgment on report.
16. Persons and cases not affected.
17. Expenses of referees.
18. Lfons, on an undivided interest, how assigned.
19. Set-off of estate for life, &c., in case of partial sale.
. 20. Proceeds of incumbered property, how applied.
21. Marshalling securities of lien creditors.
22. Proceeds of sale, how distributed.
23. Proceeds if paid into court, action to continue.
24. Sale by referees, how made.
25. Sale may be on credit
20. Mortgages, &c., how to be taken.
27. Estate for life or years, how disposed of.
28. Compensation to tenant in case of sale.
29. Investment when no consent is given.
SO. Rights of unknown tenants how protected.
31. Contingent and future rights how provided for.
32. Termsof sale to be made known.
33. Referees not to purchase.
34. Referees to report sale.
35. Order to convey.
36. Rteceipt of encumbrancer, &c., to referees.
37. Conveyances when recorded, a bar to, &c.
38. Proceeds of sale for unknown non-residents, when invested.
39. Security for proceeds, &c., how taken.
40. Security, to be taken in name of parties and filed with clerk.
41. Clerk, to collect interest on securities, &e.
42. Partition made equal, by compensation.
43. Proceeds when paid guardian of infant.
44. Shares of insane, &c., person.
45. Consent to partition by guardian.
46. Costs of partition how allowed.
47. When court may appoint one referee.
48. This Act when to take offect.
SEC. 1. When several persons hold and are in possession of real property as joint tenants, or tenants in common, in which one or ST; ofte fihrtne r a more of them have an estate of inheritance or for life or years, an
action may be brought by one or more of such persons, in the district court of the proper county, for a partition thereof according t to the respective rights of the persons interested therein, and for a
sale of such property or a part of it, if it appear that a partition
cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners.
SEC. 2. The interest of all persons in the property, whether such
persons be known or unknown, shall be set forth in the complaint,
specifically and particularly as far as known to the plaintifff, and if
one or more of the parties, or the share or quantity of interest of
any of the parties, be unknown to the plaintifff, or be uncertain or
contingent, or the ownership of the inheritance depend upon an
executory devise, or the remainder be a contingent remainder, so
that such parties cannot be named, that fact shall be set forth in
the complaint.
SEc. 3. No persons who have or claim any liens upon the prowheni
perty, by mortgage, judgment or otherwise, need be made parties
the action, unless such liens be matters of record.
SEC. 4. The summons shall be directed to all the joint tenants and tenants in common, and all persons having any liens of record,
by mortgage, judgment or otherwise, upon the property or upon any particular portion thereof, and generally to all persons unknown,
who have or claim any interest in the property.
SEC. 5. If a party having a share or interest be unknown, or any
of the known parties reside out of the territory, or cannot be found
therein, and such fact is made to appear by allidavit, the summons
may be served on such unknown or absent party, by publication
as in other cases. When publication is made, the summons as published,
shall be accompanied by a brief description of the property, which is the subject of the action.
SEc. 6. The defendants shall set forth in their answers, fully and particularly, the nature and extent of their interest in the property, and if such defendants claim a lien upon the property by mortgage,
judgment or otherwise, they shall state the date of the same, and
the amount remaining due thereon, and whether the amount has
been secured in any other way or not, and if so secured, the nature
and extent of the security, or they shall be deemed to have waived
their rights to such lien.
SEC. 7. The rights of the several parties, plaintifffs as well as de- fendants, may be put in issue, tried and determined by such action, and where a sale of the premises is necessary, the title shall be ascertained
by proof to the satisfaction of the court, before the judgment
of sale shall be made, and when service of the complaint shall
have been made by publication, like proof shall be required of the
rights of the absent or unknown parties, before spch judgment shall
be rendered, except that when there are several unknown persons
having an interest in the property, their rights may be considered
together in the action, and not as between themselves.
SEC. 8. The plaintifff shall produce to the court-on the hearing of the case, the certificates of the recorder and the clerk of the district
court, where the property is situated, showing whether there were
or were not any liens of record upon the property or any part
thereof, at the time of the commencement of the action.
SEc. 9. If it appear by the certificate of the recorder or the clerk that there were liens of record at the time of the commencement ot action, and the persons holding or claiming such liens, be not made parties to the action, the court shall either order such parties
to be brought in by an amendment or supplemental complaint, or
appoint a referee to ascertain whether their liens have been paid,
or if not paid what amount remains due, and the date of their liens,
and whether the amount remaining due thereon has been secured
in any way, and if secured, the nature and extent of the security.
SEc. 10. The plaintifff shall cause a notice to be served a rea- sonable time previous to the day for appearance before the referee appointed, as provided in the last section, on each person having
liens of record, who is not a party to the action, to appear before
the referee at a specified time and place, to make proof by his own
affidavit or otherwise of the true amount due, or to become due
contingently or absolutely thereon. In case such person be absent
or his residence be unknown, service may be made by publication
or notice to his agents, under the direction of the court or judge
thereof, in such manner as may be proper. The report of the
referee thereon shall be made to the court, and shall be confirmed,
modified or set aside, and a new reference ordered as the justice of
the case may require.
SEC. 11. If it be alleged in the complaint and established by evidence, or if it appear by the evidence without such allegation in the complaint, to the satisfaction of the court, that the property or
any part of it, is so situated that partition cannot be made without
great prejudice to the owners, the court may order a sale thereof,
and.for that purpose may appoint one or more referees. Otherwise
upon the requisite proofs being made, it shall order a partition according
to the respective rights of the parties as ascertained by the
court, and appoint three referees therefore, and shall designate the
portion to remain undivided, for the owners whose interests remain
unknown or not ascertained.
SEC. 12. The referees before proceeding to the discharge of their
duties, shall be sworn or affirmed before some officer competent to
administer oaths, honestly and impartially to execute the trust reposed
-in them, which oath or affirmation shall be filed with the
clerk of the court.
SEC. 13. In making the partition, the referees shall divide the
property and allot the several portions thereof to the respective
parties, quality and quantity relatively considered, according to
the respective rights of the parties as determined by the court,
designating the several portions by proper land marks, and may
employ a surveyor with the necessary assistants to aid them
therein.
SEC. 14. The referees or a majority of them shall make a report
of their proceedings, specifying therein the manner of executing
their trust, describing the property divided and the shares allotted
to each party, with a particular description of each share.
SEC. 15. The court may confirm or set aside the report, and if
necessary appoint new referees. Upon the report being confirmed,
judgment shall be rendered that such partition be effectual forever, which judgment shall be binding and conclusive:
1. On all parties named therein, and their legal representatives
who have at the time any interest in the property divided, or any
part thereof as owners in fee, or as tenants for life or for years, or
as entitled to the reversion, remainder or the. inheritance of such
property or any part thereof, after the termination of a particular
estate therein, and who by any contingency may be entitled to a
beneficial interest in the property, or who have an interest in any
undivided share thereof, as tenants for years or for life;
2. On all persons interested in the property, who may be unknown,
to whom notice shall have been given of the application
for partition by publication, as directed by section five; and
3. On all other persons claiming from such parties or persons, or
either of them.
SEC. 16. But such judgment and partition shall not affect any
tenants for years or for life to the whole of the property which is
the subject of partition ; nor shall such judgment and partition
preclude any person, except such as are specified in the last section,
from claiming title to the property in question, or from controverting
the title of the parties between whom the partition shall have
been made.
SEC. 17. The expenses of the referees, including those of a surveyor
and his assistants, when employed, shall be ascertained and
allowed by the court, and the amount thereof, together with the
fees allowed by law to the referees, shall be paid by the plaintifff,
and may be allowed as part of the charges.
SEC. 18. When a lien is on an undivided interest or estate of
any of the parties, such lien, if a partition be made, shall thereafter
be a charge only on the share assigned to such party; but such
share shall be first charged with its just proportion of the costs of the partition in preference to such lien.
SEc. 19. When a part of the property only is ordered to be sold, if there be an estate for life, or years, in an undivided share of the whole property, such estate may be set off in any part of the pro- perty not ordered to be sold.
SEC. 20. The proceeds of the sale of the incumbered property, shall be applied under the direction of the court, as follows: 1. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the action: 2. To pay the costs of the reference;
2. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens in their order
of priority, by payment of the sums due, and to become due; the
amount remaining due to be verified by affidavit at the time of
payment:
4. The residue among the owners of the property sold, according
to their respective shares.
SEc. 21. Whenever any party to the action who holds alien upon the property or any part thereof, has other securities for the pay- ment of the amount of such lion, the court may, in its discretion,
order such securities to be exhausted before a; distribution of the
proceeds of sale, or may order a just deduction to be made from the
amount of the lien on the property on account thereof.
SEc. 22. The proceeds of sale, and the securities taken by the referees, or any part thereof, shall be distributed by them to the persons entitled thereto, whenever the court so directs. But if no
direction be given, all such proceeds and securities shall be paid
into court, or deposited therein, or as directed by the court. *
SEc. 23. When the proceeds of sales of any shares or parcel be. longing to persons who are parties to the action, and who are known, are paid into court, the action may be continued as between
such parties, for the determination of their respective claims thereto,
which shall be ascertained and adjudged by the court. Further
testimony may be taken in court, or by a referee at the discretion
of the court, and the court may, if necessary, require such parties to
present the facts or law in controversy, by pleadings as in original
actions.
SEc. 24. All sales of real property made by referees under this chapter, shall be made by public auction to the highest bidder, upon notice published in the manner required for the sale of real property
on execution. The notice shall state the terms 6f sale, and if the
property, or any part of it is to be sold, subject to a prior estate,
charge or lien, that shall be stated in the notice.
SEc. 25. The court shall, in the order of sale, direct the terms of credit which may be allowed for the purchase-money of any portion of the premises, of which it may direct a sale on credit; and for
that portion of which the purchase-money is required by the provisions
hereinafter contained, to be invested for the benefit of unknown
owners, infants, or parties out of the territory.
SEC. 26. The referees may take separate mortgages, and other se- curities for the whole, or convenient portions of the purchase. money, on such parts of the property as are directed by the court to
be sold on credit, in the name of the clerk of the district court, and
his successor in office; and for the shares of any known owner of
full age, in the Dame of such owner; and for the shares of an infant,
in the name of the guardian of such infant.
SEC. 27. When the estate of any tenant for life or years, in any
undivided part of the property in question, shall have been admitted
by the parties, or ascertained by the court to be existing at
the time of the order of sale, and the person entitled to such estate
shall have been made a party to the action, such estate may be first
set off out of any part of the property, and a sale made of such parcel,
subject to the prior unsold estate of such tenant therein; but if
in the judgment of the court, a due regard to the interest of all the
parties require that such estate be also sold, the sale may be so
ordered.
SEc. 28. Any person entitled to an estate for life or years in any
undivided part of the property, whose estate shall have been sold,
shall be entitled to receive such sum in gross as may be deemed
upon principles of law applicable to annuities, a reasonable satisfaction
for such estate, and which the person so entitled shall consent
to accept instead thereof, by an instrument in writing, filed with the
clerk of the court. Upon the filing of such consent, the clerk shall
enter the same in the minutes of the court.
SEc. 29. If such consent be not given, filed and entered, as pro.
vided in the last section, before the report of sale by the referees,
the court shall ascertain and determine what proportion of the proceeds
of the sale, after deducting expenses, will be a just and reasonable
sum to be invested for the benefit of the person entitled to
such estate for life or years, and shall order the same to be paid to
such party or deposited in court for him as the case may require.
SEC. 30. If the persons entitled to such estate for life or years be
unknown, the court shall provide for the protection of their rights,
in the same manner as far as may be, as if they were known and
had appeared.
SEC. 31. In all cases of sales in partition, when it shall appear
that any person has a vested or contingent future right, or estate in
any part of the property sold, the court shall ascertain and settle
the proportional value of such contingent or vested right or estate,
according to the principles of law applicable to annuities and survivorship,
and shall direct such proportion of the proceeds of sale
to be invested, secured or paid over in such manner, as to protect
the rights and interests of the parties.
SEc. 32. In all cases of sales of property, theterms shall be made
known at the time; and if the premises consist of distinct farms or
lots, they shall be sold separately.
SEc. 33. Neither of the referees, nor any person for the benefit of
either of them, shall be interested in any purchase; nor shall the
guardian of an infant party be interested in the purchase of any real
property, being the subject of the action, except for the benefit of
the infant. All sales contrary to the provisions of this section, shall
be void.
SEc. 34. After completing a salp of the property, or any part
thereof ordered to be sold, the referees shall report the same to the
court, with a description of the different parcels of land sold to each
purchaser; the name of the purchaser; the price paid or secured;
the terms and conditions of the sale; and the securities, if any taken.
The report shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the district court, in the county where the property is situated.
SEC. 35. If the sale be confirmed by the court, an order shall be directing the referees to execute conveyances and take securities
pursuant to such sale, which they are hereby authorized to
do. Such order may also give directions to them respecting the
disposition of the proceeds of the sale.
SEC. 36. When a party entitled to a share of the property, or an encumbrancer entitled to have his lion paid out of the sale, be- a purchaser, the referees may take his receipt for so much
of the proceeds of the sale as belongs to him.
SEc. 37. The conveyances shall be recorded in the county where the premises are situated, and shall be a bar against all persons interested in the property in any way, who shall have been named
as parties in the action, and against all such parties and persons
as were unknown, if the summons have been served by publication,
and against all persons claiming from them or either of them.
SEc. 38. When there are proceeds of a sale belonging to an un- known owner, or to a person without the territory, who has no representative within it, the same shall be invested in securities
on interest, for the benefit of the persons entitled thereto.
SEc. 39. When the security for the proceeds of sale is taken, or when an investment of any such proceeds is made, it shall be done, except as herein otherwise provided, in the name of the
clerk of the district court of the county where the papers are filed,
.and his successors in office, who shall hold the same for the use and
benefit of the parties interested, subject to the order of the court.
SEC. 40. When security is taken by the referees on a sale, and the parties interested in such security by an instrument in writing under their hands, delivered to the referees, agree upon the shares and proportions to which they are respectively entitled; or when
shares and proportions have been previously adjudged by the
court, such securities shall be taken in the names of and payable
to the parties respectively entitled thereto; and shall be delivered
to such parties upon their receipt therefore. Such agreement and
receipt shall be returned and filed with the clerk.
SEC. 41. The clerk, in whose name a security is taken, or by whom an investment is made, and his successors in office, shall receive
the interest and principal as it becomes due, and apply and
invest the same as the court may direct; and shall file in his office
all securities taken, and keep an account in a book provided and
kept for that purpose in the clerk's office, free for inspection by all
persons, of investments and monies received by him thereon, and
the disposition thereof.
SEC. 42. When it appears that partition cannot be made equal between the parties, according to their respective rights, without to the rights and interests of some of them, the court may adjudge compensation to be made by one party to another,
on account of the inequality of partition; but such compensation
shall not be required to be made to others by owners unknown,
nor by infants, unless in case of an infant it appear that lie has
personal property sufficient for that purpose, and that his interest
will be promoted thereby.
SEc. 48. When the share of an infant is sold, the proceeds -of
the sale may be paid by the referees making the sale to his general
guardian, or the special guardian appointed for him in the action,
upon giving the security required by law, or directed by order of
the court.
SEc. 44. The guardian who may be entitled to the custody and
management of the estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged
incapable of conducting his own affairs, whose interest in
real property shall have been sold, may receive, in behalf of such
person, his share of the proceeds of such real property from the
referees, on executing with sufficient sureties, an undertaking, approved
by a judge of the district court, that he will faithfully discharge
the trust reposed in him, and will render a true and just
account to the person entitled, or to his legal representative. .
SEC. 45. The general guardian of an infant, and the guardian
entitled to the custody and management-of the estate of an insane
person, or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own
affairs, who is interested in real estate held in joint tenancy, or in
common, or in any other manner, so as to authorize his being
made a party to an action for the partition thereof, may consent
to a partition without action, and agree upon the.share to be set
off to such infant or other person entitled, and may execute a release
in his behalf to the owners of the shares of the parts to which
they may respectively be entitled, upon an order of the court. I
SEC. 46. The costs of partition, including fees of referees and
other disbursements, shall be paid by the parties respectively entitled
to share in the lands divided, in proportion to their respective
interests therein, and may be included and specified in the
judgment. In that case they shall be a lien on the several shares,
and the judgment may be enforced by execution 'against such
shares, and against other property held by the respective parties.
When however a litigation arises between some of the parties only,
the court may require the expense of such litigation to be paid by
the parties thereto, or any of them.
SEc. 47. The court, with the consent of the parties, may appoint
a single referee, instead of three referees, in the proceedings under
the provisions of this chapter; and the single referee when thus
appointed, shall have all the powers, and perform all the duties
required of the three referees.
SEC. 48. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after
the first day of May next.

OFFICE OR FRANCHISec.
CHAPTER I.
ACTIONS IN PLACE OF SCIRE FACIAS, QUO WARRANTO, AND OF INFORMATIONS
IN THE NATURE OF QUO WARRANTO.
. 1. &irefacias and quo warranto abolished.
2. Action by prosecuting attorney to vacate charter.
3. Action to annul a corporation.
4. Leave how obtained.
6. Action upon information or complaint.
6. Action to vacate letters patent.
l. Relator, when to be joined as plaintifff
8. Complaint and action for usurping office.
9. Judgment in suci action.
10. Assumption of office, &c., by relator.
11. Damages how recovered.
12. Action against several persons claiming office.
13. Penalty for usurping office.
14. Judgment of forfeiture against a corporation.
15. Costs against corporation.
16. Appointment of a receiver.
17. Copy ofjudgment roll where to be filed.
18. Act when to take effect.
SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the Ter- ritory of Oregon, That the writ of scire facias, the writ of quo war- ranto, and proceedings by information in the nature of quo war- ranto are abolished, and the remedies herctUobre obtainable in those
forms, may be obtained by actions at law under the provisions of
this chapter.
SEc. 2. An action may be brought into the district court by the prosecuting attorney of the district, in the name of the territory, whenever the legislative assembly shall so direct, against a corporation,
for the purpose of vacating or annulling the act of incorporation,
or an act renewing its corporate existence, on the ground
that such act or renewal was procured upon some fraudulent suggestion,
or concealment of a material fact, by the.persons incorporated
or some of them, or with their knowledge and consent.
SEC. 3. An action may be brought by such prosecuting attorney, in the name of the territory, on leave granted by the district court or a judge thereof, for the purpose of vacating the charter or an. nulling the existence of a corporation other than municipal, when- ever such corporation shall:
1. Offend against any of the provisions of the act or acts creating,
altering or renewing such corporation; or
2. Violate the provisions of any law by which such corporation
shall have forfeited its charter by abuse of its powers; or
3. Whenever it shall have forfeited its privileges or franchises
by failure to exercise its powers; or
4. Whenever it' shall have done or omitted any act which
aniounts to a surrender of its corporate rights, privileges and franchises;
or
5. Whenever it shall exercise a franchise or privilege not bonferred
upon it by law. And it shall be the duty of such prosecuting
attorney, whenever he shall have reason to bcligve that any
of these acts or commissions can be established by proof, to apply
foi leave, and upon leave granted, to bring the action in every
case of public interest, and also in every other case, in which satisfactory
security shall be given to indemnify the territory against
the costs and expenses to be incurred thereby.
SEC. 4. Leave to bring the action may be granted upon the
application of the prosecuting attorney; and the district court or
judge may, in their discretion, direct notice of such application to
be given to the corporation or its officers, previous to granting such
leave, and may hear the corporation in opposition thereto.
SEC. 5. An action may be brought by the prosecuting attorney
of the district in the name of the territory, upon his own informato
tion, or upon the complaint of a private party against the party
offending, in the following cases:
1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully
hold, or exercise any public office, civil or military, or any franchise
within this territory, or any office in a corporation created
by the authority of this territory; or
2. When any public officer, civil or military, has done or suffered
an act, which by the provisions of the law makes a forfeiture
of his office; or
3. When any association or number of persons act within this
territory as a corporation, without being duly incorporated. And
it shall be the duty of the prosecuting attorney to bring the action,
whenever he shall have reason to believe that any of these acts
can be proven, or when he shall have been directed to do so by a
judge of the district court.
SEc. 6. An action may be brought by,the prosecuting attorney
of the district in the name of the territory, for the purpose of vacating
or annulling letters patent, granted by the territory, in the
following cases:
1. When he shall have reason to believe that such letters patent
were obtained by means of some fraudulent suggestion or concealment
of a material fact, made by a person to whom the same were
issued or made, or with his consent or knowledge; or
2. When he shall have reason to believe that such letters patent
were issued through mistake, or in ignorance of a material fact; or
3.. When he shall have reason to believe that the patentee or
those claiming under him have done, or omitted an act in violation
of the terms and conditions on which the letters patent were
granted, or have by any other means forfeited the interest acquired
under the same.
SEC. 7. When an action shall be brought by the prosecuting
attorney by virtue of this chapter, on the relation or information
of a person having an interest in the question, the name of such
person shall be joined with the territory as plaintifff.
SEC. 8. Whenever such action shall be brought against a person
for usurping an office, the prosecuting attorney, in addition to the
statement of the cause of action, may also set forth in the complaint
the name of the person rightfully entitled to the office, with a statement of his right thereto, and in such case, upon proof by affidavit that the defendant has received fees or emoluments belonging to the
office, and by means of his usurpation thereof. an order may be
granted by a judge of the district court for the arrest of such defendant
and holding him to, bail, and thereupon he shall be arrested
and held to bail in the same manner, and with the same effect,
and subject to the same rights and liabilities, as in other actions at
law where the defendant is subject to arrest.
SEC. 9. In every such case judgment shall be rendered upon the right of'the defendant, and also upon the right of the party so al- leged to be entitled, or only upon the right of the defendant as justice
shall require.
SEC. 10. If judgment shldl be rendered upon the 'right of the person so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office, and executing such official
bond as may be required by law, to take upon himself the execution
of the office.
SEC. 11. If judgment be rendered upon the right of the person so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may recover
by action the damages which lie may have sustained by reason of
the usurpation of the office by the defendant.
SEC. 12. When several persons claim to be entitled to the same office or franchise, an action may be brought against all such per- sons, in order to try their respective rights to such office or fran. 
SEC. 13. When a defendant, whether a natural person or a cor- poration, against whom such action shall have been brought, shall adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully
holding or exercising any office, franchise or privilege, judgment
shall be rendered that such defendant be excluded from such office,
franchise or privilege, and also that the plaintifff recover costs
against such defendant. The court may also, in its discretion, fine
such defendant a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars, which
fine when collected shall be paid into the territorial treasury.
SEC. 14. If it shall be adjudged that a corporation, against which an action shall have been brought, pursuant to this chapter, has by neglect, abuse, or surrender, forfeited its corporate rights, privileges and franchises, judgment shall be rendered that the corporation be
excluded from such corporate rights, privileges and franchises, and
that the corporation be dissolved.
SEC. 15. If judgment be rendered in such action against a corporation,
or against persons claiming to be a corporation, the court may cause the costs therein to be collected, by execution, against
the persons claiming to be a corporation, or by attachment or pro.
coss against the directors or other officers of such corporation.
SEC. 16. When such judgment shall be rendered against a corporation,
the court shall have the same power to restrain the cor- to appoint a receiver of its property, and take an account, and make distribution thereof among its creditors, as a court of
chancery possesses, and it shall be the duty of the prosecuting
attorney, immediately after the rendition of such judgment, to institute
proceedings for tljat purpose.
SEc. 17. Upon the rendition of such judgment against a corporation, or for the vacating or annulling of letters patent, it shall be
the duty of the prosecuting attorney, to cause a copy of the judgroll
ment roll to be forthwith filed in the office of the secretary of the
territory.
SEC. 18. This act shall take effect and be in force, from and after
the first day of May next.


CHAPTER I.
OF THE WRIT OF MANDAMUS.
TITLE I. Wri7s of Mfandamus.
TITLE II. Writs of Prohibition.
TITLE I.
Writs of Alandamus.
Sec. 1. Writ of mandamus to whom issued.
2. When to issue.
3. Nature of mandamus.
4. When peremptory mandamus may be allowed.
5. Proceedings.
6. Answer on return of writ.
7. If no answer, peremptory writ allowed.
8. Pleadings.
9. Issue when tried.
10. Issue where tried.
11. Trial, as in -civil action.
12. Damages for plaintifff.
13. Court may fine or imprison.
14. Jurisdiction of district court.
SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the Territory of O ,.e ,nrn,, eise n b
Oregon, That the writ o mandamus may be issued to any inferior
tribunal, corporation, board or person to compel the performance
of an act, which the law specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from
an office, trust or station, or to compel the admission of a party to
the use and enjoyment of a right, or office to which he is entitled,
and from which he is unlawfully precluded by such inferior tribunal,
corporation, board or person.
SEc. 2. This writ shall only be issued in cases where there is not
a speedy and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of
law. It shall be issued upon affidavit on the application of the
party beneficially interested.
SEc. 3. The writ shall be either alternative or peremptory. The
alternative writ shall state concisely the facts, showing the obligation
of the party to whom it is directed to perform the act, and his
omission to perform iz, and command him that immediately after
the receipt of the writ, or some other specified time, he do the act
required to be performed, or show cause before the court out of which the writ issued, at a specified time and place, why he has
not done so, and that he then and there return the writ with his
certificate of what .he has done. The peremptory writ shall be in
a similar form, except that the words, requiring the party to show
cause why he has not done as commanded, shall be omitted.
SEc. 4. When the right to require the performance of the act clear, and it is apparent that no valid excuse can be given for not performing it, a peremptory mandamus may be allowed in the
first instance; in all other cases the alternative writ shall be
first issued.
SEC. 5. The motion for the writ, the allowance and the service thereof and the enforcement of obedience thereto, shall be such as the court may direct.
SEC. 6. On the return day of the alternative writ or such fur- ther day as the court may allow, the party on whom the writ shall have been served, may show cause by answer under oath, made
in the same manner as an answer to a complaint in an action at
law.
SEc. 7. If no answer be made, a peremptory mandate shall be allowed against the party on whom the writ shall have been served. If an answer be made containing new matter, the same shall not conclude the applicant, who may on the trial or other
proceedings avail himself of any valid objection to its sufficiency,
or may countervail it by proof, either in direct denial or by way
-of avoidance.
SEc. 8. No other pleading or written allegation, shall be allowed than the writ and answer, and these pleadings shall have the same
effect, and be construed and amended in the same manner, as proceedings
in an action at law; and the issues thereby joined shall
be tried, and the further proceedings had in the same manner as in
an action at law.t
SEc. 9. Issues of fact joined in the case of a writ of mandamus issued out of the supreme court, shall be tried as provided in the next section.
SEC. 10. When the parties consent thereto, the court may try the issues of fact arising upon the pleadings of the parties, or the
same may be referred as in actions at law in the district court;
but when either party shall refuse to consent to a trial, other than
a trial by jury, the supreme court may order a jury of twelve men,
possessing the qualifications for jurors, in the district court, to be
summoned to appear forthwith before the court to try such issue;
and in case any of the jurors so summoned, should for any cause
be rejected or be disqualified to act as a juror in the case, the
court may order others to be summoned until a jury shall be
obtained.
SEC. 11. When a jury shall be impanneled, the same proceed- ings shall be had as in the trial of an action at law in the. district court.
SEC. 12. If judgment be given for the applicant, he shall recover the damages which he shall have sustained, to be ascertained by the court or. jury, or by referees, as in an action at law, together
with his. costs and charges: and for such damages, costs and
charges an execution may be issued; and a peremptory ma-adamus
shall also be awarded without delay.
SEC. 13. Whenever a peremptory mandamus has been issued and
directed to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board or person commanding
the performance of any public duty, specially enjoined by
law, if it appear to the court that any meiber of such inferior tribunal,
corporation, or board, or such person upon whom the writ
has been personally served, has without just excuse refused or
neglected to perform the duty so enjoined, the court may impose
on him a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars. Such fine when
collected, shall be paid into the territorial treasury. In case of persistence
in a refusal of obedience, the court may order the party to
be imprisoned for a period not exceeding three months, and may
take any orders necessary and proper for the complete enforcement
of the writ.
SEC. 14. The several district courts of this territory shall have
original jurisdiction in cases of mandamus, except in cases when
such writ is directed to one of the judges of the district court, in
his official capacity, and the said court shall proceed upon all sich
cases in the same manner as in an action at law, unless otherwise
provided by statute.
TITLE I.
Writs of Prohibition.
. 15. Writs of prohibition to be issued from supreme court only.
16. Service and return of yrit.
17. Proccedings upon return orwrit.
18. Judgment when and how rendered by court.
19. Act when to take effect.
SEC. 15. Writs of prohibition shall only be issued out of the su.
preme court, and such writs shall be applied for, upon affidavits,
by motion to the court or a judge thereof in vacation, in the same
manner as writs of mandamus; and if the cause shown shall appear
to the court or judge to be sufficient, a writ shall be thereupon
issued, which shall command the court and party, or officer to
whom it shall be directed, to desist, and refrain from any further
proceedings in the suit, or matter specified therein, until the next
term of the supreme court, or the further order of the court thereon;
and to show cause at the next term of the said court, or some day
to be named in the same term, at the option of the court, if issued
in term time, why they should not be absolutely restrained from
any further proceeding in such action or matter.
SEC. 16. Such writ shall be served upon the court and party, or
officer to whom it shall be directed, in the same manner as a writ
of mandamus; and a return shall in like manner be made thereto
by such court or officer, which may be enforced by attachment.
SEC. 17. The court and party or officer on whom the writ shall
have been served, may by the return or answer under oath, show
cause why they should not be restrained as mentioned in the writ
of prohibition; and the person prosecuting such writ may take
issue or demur to the matters relied on in the return or answer by
such court and party or officer; and the like proceedings shall be
had for the trial of such issues of law or fact, joined between the parties, and for the rendering of judgment thereon as in a mandamus.
SEc. 18. The court after hearing the proofs and allegations of the parties, shall render judgment, either that a prohibition absolute restraining the said court and party or officer from proceeding in such action or matter, do issue, or authorizing the court and party
or officer to proceed in such action or matter in question; and may
make and enforce such order in relation to costs and charges, and
the amount thereof as may be deemed just. I
SEc. 19. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after
the first day of May next.

CHAPTER I.
ACTIONS ON OFFICIAL SECURITIES, AND FOR FINES AND FORFEITURES.
Szo. 1. Official bond how construed.
2. Who may bring an action thereon.
3. Leave how granted.
4. One judgment not to preclude a second action, on other delinquencios.
5. Amount recovered not to exceed undertaking.
0. Execution to be first enforced against principal.
7. Securities when and how apportioned.
8. Actions for fines and forfeitures, who may prosecute.
9, Amount recovered when penalty is limited.
10. Effects of recovery by collusion.
11. Certain fines to be paid into the treasury.
SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Lcgislativ Assembly of the Terre- tory of Oregon, That the official bond or other security of a public
officer to the territory, whether with or without securities, shall
be construed as security to the territory, and also to all persons
severally for the official delinquencies, against which it is intended
to provide. If it be to a county, city, village or other municipal
body, it shall, in like manner, be construed severally to all persons
intended to be secured, as well as to the body politic named
therein.
SEC. 2. When a public officer, by official misconduct or neglect of duty shall forfeit his official bond, or render his sureties liable upon an official security, any person injured thereby, or who is by
law entitled to the benefit of the security, may bring an action
thereon, in his own name, against the officer and his sureties to
recover the amount to which he may he entitled, by reason of the
delinquency.
SEC. 3. Before an action can be brought by the plaintifff, other than the territory or body politic named in the security, leave
shall be obtained of the district court, or a judge thereof,-within
the district or county where the action is triable; and leave shall
only be granted on a production of a copy of the bond, and an
affidavit showing the delinquency, and if the delinquency be such
as that if established on the trial, it would entitle the party apply.
ing to recover in the action, leave shall be granted.
SEC. 4. A judgment in favor of a party for one delinquency,
shall not preclude the same or another party from an action on
the same security for another delinquency.
SEc. 5. If it appear in an action against a surety in an official
security, that he has already been obliged, by reason of prior recoveries
against him on the same, to pay amounts which, in the
aggregate, are equal to the extent of his undertaking, or that by
reason of the insolvency of his principal he will be obliged to pay
to that extent on judgments already recovered against the surety,
the recovery against a surety shall in all such cases, be limited by
the amount of his undertaking, except as otherwise provided by
law.
SEC. 6. Upon the execution issued on a judgment recovered
upon the official security of a public officer against him and a
surety, there shall be indorsed a direction to the officer to whom
the execution shall be delivered, to collect the same out of the property
of the principal, if sufficient can be found, and if not, then to
collect it out of the property of the surety.
SEC. 7. If there te several judgments on which executions are
at the same time in the sheriff's hands against a public officer and
his sureties, amounting in the aggregate to a sum greater than
that for which the sureties are liable, the court shall on their application,
limit the amount to be collected from them to the amount
of their respective liabilities, and may cause the same to be applied
on the judgments or executions in proportion to their amounts.
SEC. 8. Actions for fines and forfeitures may be prosecuted by
the officers or persons to whom they are by law given, or those
who by special provision of law are authorized to recover them;
and whether prosecutea by public officers or private persons, shall
be governed by the same rules as other civil actions, except as
otherwise specified in this chapter.
SEC. 9. When an action shall be brought for a penalty, which
is limited by law not to exceed a certain amount, the action may
be brought for that amount, and upon the trial, the amount recovered
shall be determined in proportion to the offense.
SEC. 10. A recovery of a judgment for a penalty or forfeiture
by collusion between the parties, with intent to save the defendant
from the consequences contemplated by law, in case where the
penalty or forfeiture is given wholly or partly to the prosecutor,
shall not prevent the recovery of the same by another person.
SEC. 11. Fines and forfeitures not specially granted or approto
ritdb.
printed by law, shall be paid into the territorial treasury; and
whenever by the provision of law any property, real or personal,
shall be forfeited to the territory, or to any officer for its use, an
action for the recovery of such property, alleging the grounds of
the forfeiture, may be brought by the proper officer in the district
court of any county where such property may be.
CHAPTER II.
ACTIONS BY AND AGAINST CERTAIN PUBLIC OFFICERS, AND PUBLIC
BODIES.
 1. Who may sue in official capacity.
2 In what cases official persons oay sue.
3. When special department of corporation sues.
4 & 5. How actions may be brought.
6 & 7. When judgment against county to be presented to commissioners, and
how satisfied.
8. Payment of judgment by county treasurer.
9. Execution not to issue, except on leave.
10. Act when to take effect.
SEC. 1. The following officers may prosecute actions in their of- ficial capacity: 1. The board of county commissioners of a county; 2. The directors of a school district;
3. Any organized department of a municipal corporation, having
a board of officers in charge of a particular branch of public
service, and specially authorized by statute to prosecute. In such
action the plaintifffs may be designated by their official name, or
the action may be brought in the name of the body in whose behalf
the action is brought.
SEC. 2. Every such action shall be either: 1. On a contract made with such officers in their official capa- city; or
2. To enforce a liability or a duty enjoined by law in favor of
such officers, or the body represented by them; or
3. To recover a penalty or forfeiture given to such officers or
body; or
4. To recover damages for an injury to their official rights or
property.
SEC. 3. When an organized department of a municipal corpora. is authorized by statute to sue, it shall, for purposes of the actionbe deemed the real party in interest, though the corpora.
tion, of which it is the department, be the party to be ultimately
benefitted by the action, or responsible for any costs incurred
therein.
SEC. 4. An action may be brought against the officers, mentioned in section one, in their official capacity, or against the body they represent, either upon a contract made by such officers in their official
capacity, and within the scope of their authority; or for an
injury to the rights of the plaintifff, arising from some act or omission
of such officers, or of the body represented by them.
SEC. 5. The actions authorized by this chapter, may be brought by or against the officers mentioned in section one, upon a cause of
action which accrued during the term of their predecessors, as well
as during their own term of office, and when brought may be continued
by, or against their successors in office, whose names may
for that purpose be substituted in the action.
SEC. 6. If judgment for the recovery of money be rendered
against a county, or the board of commissioners of a county, on
account of the liability of such county, and the judgment be not
satisfied, or proceedings thereon stayed by appeal or otherwise,
before the next regular meeting of the board of commissioners of
the county, a certified copy of the docket of the judgment may be
presented to the board of commissioners at such, or at any subsequent
regular meeting.
SEC. 7. The board of commissioners shall thereupon cause the
amount due on the judgment, with interest from the time of the recovery,
to be added to the tax of the county for whose liability the
same was recovered, and the same shall be collected as other contingent
charges of the county.
SEc. 8. The treasurer of a county against which, or against
whose officers a judgment has been recovered for a liability of the
county, the execution of which has not been stayed upon appeal,
shall upon demand and delivery to him of a certified copy of the
docket of the judgment, pay the amount due thereon, if there be
sufficient money of the county in his hands not otherwise specifically
appropriated. If he fail to do so, he shall be personally liable
for the amount, unless the collection thereof be afterwards stayed
upon appeal.
SEC. 9. Execution shall not be issued on a judgment rendered
against a county or its officers, without leave of the court; nor shall
leave be granted until the court is satisfied that payment has been
demanded of the proper county officers, as provided in the last two sections, and that the board of commissioners have wrongfully
omitted to include the amount in the tax list, as provided in section
seven; when execution is issued, the property of the county
only is liable thereon.
SEC. 10. This act shall take effect and be in force, from and
after the first day of May next.

CHAPTER I.
MECHANICS AND LABORERS' LIENS.
TITLE I. Lien on Buildings.
TITLE II. Liens on Personal Property.
TITLE I.
Lien on Buildings.
Sec. 1. Lion on buildings.
2. Notice of lien to be filed.
3. How Ion! such lion exists.
4. Complaint what to contain.
5. Summons how served.
Sec. 6. Proceedings to enforce lien. 7. Mechanics' liens, when preferred to other liens.
8. Lion against buildings, when to extend to lot.
9. Several may join: claims how stated.
10. Satisfaction of lion must be entered.
11. Notice of sub-contractor's claim.
12. Claim recovered by sub-contractor may be set ofragainst contractor's demand.
SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Legilative Assembly of the Territory of Oregon, That any person who shall hereafter by virtue of any con. tract with the owner of any building, or with the agent of such
owner, perform any labor upon, or furnish any materials, engine
or machinery for the construction or repairing of such building,
shall, upon filing the notice prescribed in the next sectioi, have a
lien upon such building, and the lot of ground upon which the
same is situated, for such labor done; or materials, engine or
machinery furnished, when the amount shall exceed twenty
dollars.
SEC. 2. Any person wishing to avail himself of the provisions of this chapter, whether his claim be due or not, shall file in the recorder's office of the county in which such building is situated,
at 'any time within three months after the completion of such
building or repairs, a notice of his intention to hold a lien upon
such building for the amount due, or to become due, specifically
setting forth such amount, and containing a description of the
building upon which the labor was performed, or for which the
materials, engine or machinery were furnished; which notice shall
be recorded by the recorder in a book to be kept for that purpose.
SEC. 3. Such lien shall cease to exist at the expiration of one year after the completion of the building or repairs, unless before that time an action to enforce the same shall have been commenced
in the district court of the county in which the premises are situated;
by the person having such lien against the owner with whom
or with whose agent the contract was made, unless such claim be
not due at the expiration of one year after such completion, in
which case the action shall be commenced within three months
after the same shall have become due.
SEC. 4. The complaint of the plaintifff shall contain a brief st'ate- ment of the contract on which the claim is founded, the amount due thereon, the time when the notice was filed with the recorder,
the time when the building was completed, if it be completed, with
a description of the premises, and any other material facts, and
shall pray that the premises may be sold, and the proceeds of the
sale be applied to the discharge of the lien.
SEC. 5. The summons shall be served as in other cases, or in- stead of service by publication, it may be made by delivering a copy thereof to the person in possession of the premises. If the
defendant shall have sold or disposed of the premises before the
service of the summons, the court shall direct notice of the proceedings
to be served on the purchaser or his agent for the premises,
who may thereupon, if ho desire it, be made a party defendant
in the action.
SEC. 6. The proceedings in an action to enforce Such lien, Shall be the same as in other actions, except as otherwise provided in this chapter; and if judgment be rendered for the plaintifff, he may
have an execution issued thereon to sell the premises, and thereupon
the sheriff shall proceed as upon other executions for the sale
of real property; and the owner or any lien creditor shall have the
same rights of redemption after a sale.
SEC. 7. The liens created in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, shall have precedence over all other liens, after the comother
mencement of the building, and if upon a sale of the premises by
execution, the proceeds be insufficient to pay all such liens, the
court shall order them to be paid in proportion to the amount respectively
due to each, and any other property of the defendant
not exempt from execution, may be sold to satisfy such execution.
SEC. 8. The liens against any building shall also extend to the
lot of ground upon which such building is erected, not exceeding
one-half of an acre in extent, if the land shall have been, at the
time of erecting such building, the property of the person who
shall have caused the same to be erected. The metes and bounds
of such lot may be determined by the parties, or if they cannot
agree upon the same, the court at any time after the rendition of
judgment, may appoint one or more referees to determine such
boundaries.
SEC. 9. All, or any number of persons having liens on the same
building, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, may joinin one
action, but their claims shall be stated distinctly, as in a separate
action, and the judgment shall show the amounts to which they are
respectively entitled.
SEc. 10. Whenever any person having a lien, by virtue of the
provisions of this chapter, shall have received satisfaction for his
claim and the costs of his proceedings thereon, he shall, upon the
request of any person interested, and upon the payment or tender
of the costs of entering satisfaction, within six days after such payment
or tender, enter satisfaction of his demand in the office where
the same is recorded, and upon failure to do so, he shall forfeit fifty
dollars to the party aggrieved, and all damages which he may have
sustained in consequence of such failure or neglect.
SEc. 11. Any sub-contractor, journeyman, or laborer employed
in the construction or repairing of any building, or in furnishing
any materials or maohinery for the same, may give the owner
thereof notice in writing, particularly setting forth the amount of
his claim, and the service rendered, for which his employer is indebted
to him, and that he holds the owner responsible for the same,
and the owner of the building shall be liable for such claim if indebted
to the employer to the amount; if not, then for the amount
due from him to said employer at the time such notice was served,
which claim or amount may be recovered by an action against the
owner, if brought within one year after the completion of the building,
or the repairs.
SEc. 12. Whenever any sub-contractor, journeymen, or laborer
contrac-suhuidn te
Shall recover any such claim from the owner of the building the
same may be set off by such owner, in any action brought against
him by the person who otherwise would be entitled to recover the
same under the contract.
TITLE II. Liens on personal property.
Sec. 13. Lien of laborer.
14. Lien of common carrier, grazier, herdsman, &c.
15. Sale, &c., satisfaction of lien.
16. Foregoing provisions not to interfore with special agreements.
SEc. 13. Any person who shall make, alter, repair, or bestow on any article of personal property, at the request of the
owner or lawful possessor thereof, shall have a lien on such property
so made, altered, or repaired, or upon which labor has been
bestowed, for his just and reasonable charges for the labor he has
performed, and the materials he has furnished; and such person
may hold and retain possession of the same, until such just and
reasonable charges shall be paid.
SEC. 14. Any person who is a common carrier, or who shall at request of the owner or lawful possessor of any personal prop- erty, carry, convey, or transport the'same from one place to another; and any person who shall safely keep or store any personal
property at the request of the owner or lawful possessor
thereof; and any person who shall depasture or feed any horses,
cattle, hogs, sheep, or other live stock, or bestow any labor, care or
attention upon the same, at the request of the owner or lawful
possessor thereof, shall have a lien upon such property, for his just
and reasonable charges for the labor, care, and attention lie has
bestowed, and the food he has furnished, and he may retain the
possession of such property until such charges be paid.
SEC. 15. If such just and reasonable charges be not paid within months after the care, attention and labor shall have been performed or bestowed, or the materials or food shall have been
furnished, the person having such lien may proceed to sell, at public
auction, the property mentioned in the last two sections, or a part
thereof. sufficient to pay such just and reasonable charges. Before
selling, he shall give notice of such sale by advertisement for three
weeks in some newspaper published in the county, if there be one,
or if there be no sueh paper, then by posting up notice of such sale
in three of the most public places in the city or township for three
weeks before the time of such sale; and the proceeds of such sale
shall be applied, first to the discharge of such lien, and the costs
and exponses of keeping and selling such property, and the remainder,
if any, shall be paid over to the owner thereof.
SEC. 16. The provisions of the last three sections shall not inter- fere with any special agreement of the parties. 
CHAPTER II.
OF PROCEEDINGS TO ENFORCE LIENS ON BOATS AND VESSELS.
. 1. Lions on boats and vessels.
2. As to the priority of liens.
3. Action may be against owner, &e., or vessui.
4. Complaint to be filed and its requisites.
. 5. Warrant of seizure, when to be issued.
6. Proceedings on return of warrant.
I.. As to who may answer complaint.
8. Judgment, how rendered.
9. Undertaking and discharge of vessel.
10. Deposit in lieu of undertaking.
11. Order of sale, what to require.
12. Judgment on undertaking.
13. Bill of sale by whom executed.
.14. Action against vessel by other parties after sale.
25. Proceeds of sale how distributed.
16. Order of sale when modified.
17. Jurisdiction of justice of the peace.
18. Proceedings by justice.
19. Warrant of justice when returnable.
20. Justice may grant continuance.
21. Fees of officers.
22. Appeal from justice's court.
23. Time for commencing actions.
24. Act when to take efloet.,
SEC. 1. Every boat or vessel used in navigating the waters of
this territory, shall be liable and subject to a lion:
1. For wages due to persons employed, for work done or services
rendered on board of such boat or vessel;
2. For all debts contracted by the master, owner, agent or consS ignec thereof, on account of labor done or materials furnished by
mechanics, tradesmen or others in the building, repairing, fitting
out, furnishing or equipping such boat or vessel, or on account of
stores and supplies furnished for the use thereof;
3. For all sums due for wharfage, anchorage or towage of such
boats or vessels within thiis territory;
4. For all demands or damages accruing from the non-performance
or mal-performance of any contract of affreightment, or of
any contract touching the transportation of persons or property,
entered into by the master, owner, agent or consignee of the boat
or vessel, on which such contract is to be performed, and for
damages or injuries done to persons or property by such boat or
vessel.
SEC. 2. The classes of claims above specified, shall have pri. ority according to the order in which they are above enumerated,
and the liens under this act shall have precedence of all other liens
and claims against such boat or vessel.
SEC. 3. Any person having a demand as aforesaid, instead of
proceeding for the recovery thereof against the master, owner, agent or consignee of the boat or vessel, may at his option commence
an action against such boat or vessel by name.
SEC. 4. Any person wishing to commence an action againsi a boat or vessel, shall file his complaint against such boat or vessel
by name, with the clerk of the district court of the county in which
such boat or vessel may lie or be. The complaint shall set forth
the plaintifff's demand in all its particulars, and on whose account
the same accrued, and shall be verified by the plaintifff or some
creditable person for him.
issSuEe c. 5. Whenever such complaint shall be filed, the clerk shall a warrant thereon, commanding the sheriff to seize the boat
or vessel mentioned in the complaint, with her tackle, apparel and
furniture, and retain the same until discharged from such custody by due course of law.
SEc. 6. Upon the return of any warrant issued as prescribed in the last section, proceeding'shall be had in the district court against the boat or vessel seized, in the same manner as if the action had
been commenced against the person on whose account the demand
accrued.
SEC. 7. The. master, owner, agent or consignee of the boat or vessel may appear on behalf of such boat or vessel, and answer complaint.
SEC. 8. If in any action commenced under the provisions of this chapter, the master, owner, agent or consignee shall not appear
and answer the complaint, the plaintifff may proceed to take judgment
in the same manner and under the same restrictions, as in a
civil action against a natural. person; if an issue of fact be joined,
the same proceedings shall be had as in other actions.
SEC. 9. If the 'master, owner, agent or consignee shall before final judgment in any action, commenced in pursuance of the pro- visions of this chapter, enter into an undertaking in favor of the plaintifff, with sufficient security to be approved by the judge or
clerk of the court in which the action is pending, conditioned to
satisfy the amount which shall be adjudged to be due and owing
to the plaintifff, on the determination of the action, together with all
costs accruing, such boat or vessel with its tackle, apparel and
furniture shall be discharged from further detention by the sheriff.
SEC. 10. Such master, owner, agent or consignee may in lieu of the undertaking specified in the last section, deposit in court such an amount of money as the judge or clerk shall direct, being sufficient
to pay the demand of the plaintifff and the costs of suit,
which are likely to accrue in such action. If judgment be for
the defendant, such deposit shall be returned to the person making
the same, or if a balance remain after satisfying any judgment
in favor of the plaintifff and costs of suits, such balance shall be so
returned.
SEC. 11. If judgment be rendered against any boat or vessel in favor of the'plaintifff, the court shall make an order directed to the shcrilY commanding him to sell such boat or vessel, together with
its tackle, apparel and furniture to satisfy the judgment and costs
which may have accrued in the cause, which order shall be executed
and returned in the same manner as other executions.
SEC. 12. If an undertaking with. surety shall have been given according to the ninth section of this chapter, and judgment shall have been rendered in favor of the plaintifff, a judgment shall also
be rendered upon the undertaking, and execution shall be issued
for the amount of judgment and costs in favor of the plaintifff,
against the principal and security in such undertaking.
SEC. 13. When any boat or vessel shall be sold inl pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, the officer making the sale shall ex- to the purchaser a bill of sale therefore, and such boat or vessel
shall in the hands of the purchaser and his assigns, be free and
discharged from all previous lions and claims under this chapter.
SEC. 14. Any other person having or claiming a lien against any boat or vessel in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, may
at any time after the sale upon execution, and before payment over
of any surplus in the hands of the sheriff, commence an act
against such boat by name as if the same had not been sold, and
serve notice thereof upon the former master, owner, agent or consignee.
While such action is pending, the sheriff shall not pay over
any surplus that may be in his hands to such master, owner, agent
or consignee.
SEc. 15. In the distribution of the proceeds of sale, claims of a
prior class shall be paid entire before any payment shall be made
upon claims of a subsequent class; and when the money to be applied
to any class shall be insufficient to pay all the claims of that
class, it shall be apportioned rateably among the claims of such
class.
SEC. 16. If it shall appear to the court in which the action is
pending, or the judge thereof, that the liens against such boat or
vessel, can be satisfied by a sale of the tackle, apparel and furniture,
or a part thereof, or a fractional share in such boat or vessel, such
court or judge may modify the order of sale accordingly. If in
pursuance of such order, a sale be made of a fractional share in
such boat or vessel, the purchaser shall hold such share jointly
with the other owners.
SEc. 17. Justices of the peace within their respective counties,
shall have cognizance of all cases arising under this chapter, when
the demand claimed shall not exceed the jurisdiction of a justice of
the peace.
SEc. 18. In-all their proceedings, justices of the peace shall conbyjustico.
form to the provisions of the law governing justice's courts, and as
near as may be to the provisions of this chapter, as they apply in
the district court.
SEC. 19. Each warrant issued by a justice of the peace under
this chapter, shall be returnable forthwith; and upon the return of
such warrant, it shall be the duty of the justice of the peace to hear
and determine the complaint of the plaintifff in a summary manner.
SEC. 20. Upon good and sufficient cause shown by the master,
r, owner, agent or consignee of any boat or vessel seized under the
provisions of this chapter, the justice of the peace may grant a continuance
of the cause, but no such continuance shall be granted to
the plaintifff.
SEC. 21. Sheriffs, constables, and other officers, shall receive the
same fees and compensation for their services under this chapter, as
are allowed to them in proceedings by attachment.
SEC. 22. In all cases arising under this chapter, before justices of
the peace, the plaintifff or the master, owner, agent, or consignee,
may appeal to the district court, but if the plaintifff appeal, the constable
or other officer shall not detain the boat or vessel in his custody,
after the payment of such judgments as shall be rendered in
favor of the plaintifff, by the justice of the peace.
SEC. 23. All actions against a boat or vessel, under the proviaction.
sions of this chapter, shall be commenced within one year after the
cause of action shall have accrued.
SEC. 24. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after
the first day of May next.
CHAPTER I.
ARBITRATIONS.
. 1. Controversies that may be submitted.
2. When submission not to be made.
3. Submission how made.
4. Agreement to submit, what to contain.
5. Submission not to be revoked.
G. Arbitrators to appoint a time of hearing.
1. Oath of arbitrators.
8. Time of making award.
9. Award to be in writing.
10. Award to be delivered to clerk,
11. Cognizance thereor by court.
12. Award may be accepted, rejected or re-committed.
13. Grounds for vacating award.
14. Grounds for correcting award.
15. Award when to be returned to court.
16. Judgment costs.
17. Record ofjudgment, what to contain.
18. Effects of judgment.
19. Arbitrators may award costs in certain cases.
20. Courts may inforce judgment.
21. Power of arbitrators.
22. This act when to take effect.
SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the erritory of
Oregon, That all controversies which might be the subject of a personal action at law, or of a suit in equity, may be submitted to the decision of one or more arbitrators, in the manner provided in this chapter. h
SEC. 2. No such submission shall be made respecting the claim of any person to any estate in fee or 0 for life to any real estate, but any claim to an interest for a term of years, or for one year or
less in real estate, and controversies respecting the partition of
lands between joint tenants or tenants in common, or concerning
the boundaries of lands, or concerning the admeasurement of dower,
may be submitted to arbitration; but nothing in this chapter contained,
shall preclude the submission and arbitrament of controversies
according to the common law.
SEC. 3. The parties may appear in person or by their lawful agents, or attorneys, before any justice of the peace or clerk of the district court, and there sign and acknowledge an agreement in
substance as follows:
"Know all men that A. B., of , and C. D., of
have agreed to submit the demand, a statement whereof is hereto
annexed, (and all other demands between them, as the case may
be,) to the determination of , and ; the award
of whom, or the greater number of whom being made and reported
within days from this date, to the district court for the
county of , shall be final; and if either of the parties
shall neglect to appear before the arbitrators, after due notice
given them of the time and place appointed for hearing, the other
parties may proceed in his absence.
Dated this day of , A. D. 185 A. B.
C. D."
And the justice or clerk shall subjoin to the said agreement his
certificate, in substance as follows:Territory of Oregon, 8
County of
Personally appeared before me, the above-named A. B. and
0. D., (or personally appeared the above-named. A. B., and the
said 0. D., by his attorney, as the case may be,) and
acknowledged the above instfument by them signed, to be their
free act.
Dated this day of 185
J. P., Justice of the Peace.
SEc. 4. If any specific others, demand be submitted to the exclusion of the demand submitted shall be set forth in the statement
annexed to the agreement of submission, otherwise it shall not be
necessary to annex any statement of a demand, and the words in
the agreement relating to such statement may be omitted, and the
submission may then be of all demands between the parties, or of
all demands which either of them has against the other, or the
submission may be varied in this respect, in any other manner, according
to the agreement of the parties.
SEC. 5. Neither party shall have power to revoke a submission, made as herein provided, without the consent of the other; and if
either of them shall neglect to appear before the arbitrators, after
due notice, the arbitrators may, nevertheless, proceed .to hear and
determine the cause upon the evidence, produced by the other
party, as provided in the agreement of submission.
SEC. 6. The arbitrators thus selected shall appoint a time and place for the hearing, and shall adjourn the same from time to time, as may be necessary; and on the application of either party,
and for good cause, they may postpone such hearing to a time, not
extending beyond the day fixed in such submission, for rendering
their award.
SEc. 7. Before proceeding to hear any testimony, the arbitrators
shall be svorn by any officer, authorized to administer oaths, faithfully
and fairly to hear and examine the matters in controversy,
and to make a just award according to law and evidence, to the
best of their understanding.
SEC. 8. The time, within which the award shall be made and reported, may be taried according to the agreement of the parties';
and no award made after the time so agreed qpon, shall have any
legal effect or operation, unless made upon a re-commitment of the
award by the court to which it is reported. SEC. 9. To entitle any award to be enforced according to the
provisions of this chapter, it must be in writing, and subscribed by
the arbitrators making the same.
SEC. 10. The award shall be delivered.by one of the arbitrators
to the clerk of the district court, designated in the agreement of
submission, or shall be inclosed and sealed by them and transmitted
to the clerk, and shall remain sealed, until opened by such
clerk.
SEC. 11. The court to which the award is returned, shall have cognizance thereof in the same manner, and the same proceedings shall be had thereon, as if it had been made by referees, appointed by a rule of the same court.
SEc. 12. The award may be rejected by the court for any legal and sufficient reason, or it may be re-committed to the same arbl- trators, for a re-hearing by them; and when an award is accepted and confirmed by the court, judgment shall be rendered thereon, in
the same manner as upon a like award made by referees appointed
by a rule of the court, and execution shall issue accordingly.
SEc. 13. Any party complaining of such award may move the court, designatbd in such submission, to vacate the same upon either of the following grounds:1. That such award was procured by corruption, fraud, or other undue means; 2. That there was evident partiality or corruption in the arbitra tors or either of them; 3. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct in refusing to
postpone the hearing upon sufficient cause shown, or in refusing to
hear evidence pertinent and material to the controvers , or other
misbehavior by which the rights of such party shall have been
prejudiced;
4. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers, or that they so imperfectly executed them, that a mutual, final, and definite award on the subject matter submitted was not made; 5. That the award was contrary to law and evidence.
SEc. 14. Any party to such submission may also move the court, therein, to modify or correct such award in the follow- ing cases:1. When there is an evident miscalculation of figures, or an evi. dent mistake in the description of any person, thing or property,
referred to in such award;
2. Where the arbitrators shall have awarded upon some matter not submitted to them, nor affecting the merits of the decision upon the matters submitted;
3. Where the award shall be imperfect in some matter of form
not affecting the merits of the controversy, and where if it had been
a verdict, such defect could have been amended or disregarded by
the court, according to the provisions of law.
SEc. 15. The award may be returned at, any term or session of the court, that shall be held within the time limited in the submis- sion; and the parties shall attend at every such term or session,
without any express notice for that purpose, in like manner, as if
an action for the same cause were pending between them in the
same court; but the court may require actual notice to be given to
either party, when it shall appear to them necessary or proper,
before they proceeded to act upon the award.
SEC. 16. Upon such award being confirmed or modified, the court shall render judgment in favor of the party, to whom any sum of
money or damages shall have been awarded, that he recover the
same, and if the award shall have ordered any act to be done by
either party, judgment shall be entered that such act be done ac- cording to such order. The costs of proceedings shall be taxed as
in suits, and if no provision for the fees and expenses of the arbitrators
shall have been made in the award, the court shall make a
suitable allowance.
SEC. 17. A record of such j udgment shall be made, commencing
with a memorandum reciting the submission, then stating the hearing
before the arbitrators, their award, the proceedings of the court
thereupon, in modifying or confirming such award, and the judgment
of the court for the recovery of the debt or damages awarded,
or other act to be done, and that the parties perform the acts
ordered by the award, and for the recovery of the costs allowed.
SEC. 18. Such record shall he filed and docketed as records of
judgments in other cases; shall have the same force and effect in
all respects; be subject to all the provisions of law in relation to
judgments in actions, and may in like manner be moved and reversed
by writ of error or appeal, and execution shall issue thereSEC. 19. If there be no provision in the submission concerning
ino tawtardwad' n
the costs of the proceedings, the arbitrators may make such award
respecting the costs as they shall judge reasonable, including thierein
a compensation for their own services; but the court may reduce
the sum charged for the compensation of the arbitrators, if it shall
appear to them unreasonable.
SEc. 20. Where by such judgment any party shall be required
to perform any act, other than the payment of money, the court
rendering such judgment shall enforce the same by rule; and the
party, refusing or neglecting to perform and execute such act,~ or
any part tereof shall be subject to all the penalties of contemning
an order of such court.
SEc. 21. The arbitrators shall hear andrenc eive the testimony of seter party under oath; and shall have full power to adminster
all necessary oaths to parties, or witnesscs appearing before them
and any such party or witnesses swearing willfully and corruptly
false, on any such hearing or examination, shall be deemed guilty
of perjury.
SEc. 22. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after
the first day of May next.

CHAPTER I.
OF HABEAS CORPUS.
S.1.Who may prosecute hmabea8 corpus.
Application for writ how and to whom made.
E.iProof reuired when application made in another county.
.Petition for writ, what to state.
r e When writ to be granted; and without delay. .
G. Frm of writ of habeas corpus.
n When writ sufficient.
8. Pepalty on officers for refusing writs.
. l nec. Return to writ, its contents when to be sworn to.
10. Body of prisoner to be brought up on habeas corpus. 11. Proceedings on disobedience of writ.
12. Proceedings against sheriff for neglect.
13. Prisoner to be produced before judge.
14. Officer executing attachment may call power of the county.
15. Proceedings on return of writ.
16. Prisoner when to be discharged.
17. When to be remanded.
18. Prisoner on civil process when to be discharged.
19. Legality of certain commitments not to be inquired into.
20. Proceedings in irregular criminal commitments.
21. Proceedings when prisoner is not discharged or bailed.
22. Custody of prisoner between judgment and return thereon.
23. Notice when to be given.
24. Notice to prosecuting attorney.
25. Return may be controverted.
26. Proceeding in case of sickness of prisoner.
27. Obedience to writ and order how enforced.
28. Officer not liable to action for obeying writ.
29. Persons once discharged cannot be re-imprisoned.
30. Penalty for re-committing person discharged.
31. Penalty for concealing prisoner, &c., after writ allowed.
32. When warrant may issue to take person illegally confined.
33. When to take person confining him.
34. Warrant how executed, proceedings thereon.
35. Proceedings against person detaining prisoner.
36. Penalty for refusing copy of process to prisoner.
37. Habeas corpus how to be made returnable.
38. Allowance to be indorsed; how signed.
39. Habeas corpus how served; when fees and bond required.
40. Mode of serving writ of habeas corpus.
41. How served when person conceals himself, &c.
42. When and how fees allowed to persons not officers.
43. Time allowed for making return to writ.
44. This act when to take effect.
SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Oregon, That every person imprisoned or otherwise restrained of his liberty, may prosecute a writ of habeas corpus, according to the provisions of this chapter, to obtain relief from such imprisonment
or restraint if it shall prove to be unlawful.
SEC. 2. Application for such writ shall be made by petition, signed by the party for whose relief it is intended, or by some person in his behalf; to any judge.of the supreme or district court
being within the county where the prisoner is detained, or if there
be no judge within such county, or if he be absent, or for any
cause be incapable of acting, or having refused to grant such
writ, then to any other judge of the supreme or district court most
convenient to the place where such prisoner is detained.
SEC. 3. Whenever application for any such writ shall be made such judge, not being within the county where the prisoner is detained, he shall require proof by the oath of the applicant or other sufficient evidece, that there is no judge in such county
authorized to grant the writ; or if there be one, that he has refused
to grant it; or for some cause to be specially set forth, is incapable
of acting; and if such proof be not produced, the application
shall be denied.
SEc. 4. The petition shall state in substance: 1. That the person in whose behalf the writ is applied for, is imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, the officer or person by
whom heis so confined or restrained, and the place where, naming
all the parties, if their names be known, or describing them if they
be not;
2. The cause or pretense of such confinement or restraint, according
to the best of the knowledge and belief of the applicant;
3. If the confinement or restraint be by virtue of any warrant,
order or process, a copy thereof shall be annexed, or it shall be
averred that by reason of the prisoner being removed or concealed
before the application, a demand of such copy could not be made;
or thatsuch demand was made, and the legal fees therefore tendered
to the officer or person, having such prisoner in his custody and
that such copy was refused.;
4. If the imprisonment be alleged to be illegal, the petition shall
also state in what the alleged illegality consists;
5. It shall be verified by the oath of the applicant, or sofie other
competent person.
SEC. 5. Any judge empowered to grant any writ applied for
under this chapter, to whom such petition shall be presented, shall
grant such ivrit without delay, unless it appear from the petition
itself, or the documents annexed, that the party can neither be
discharged, admitted to bail, nor in any other manner relieved
under the provisions of this chapter.
SEC. 6. Every writ of habeas corpus shall be substantially in the
following.form:
"In the name of the United States.
To the sheriff of, &c., (or to A. B.)
You are hereby commanded to have the body of
C. D., by you imprisoned and detained, as it is said, together with
the time and cause of such imprisonment and detention, by whatsoever
name the said C. D. shall be called or charged before E. F.,
judge of the district court (or supreme court) at, &c. -, on
the - day, &c., (or immediately after the receipt of this writ,) to
do, and receive what shall then and there be considered concerning
the said C. D. And have you then and there this writ.
Witness, &c."
SEC. 7. Such writ of habeas corpus shall not be disobeyed for
any defect in form. It shall be sufficient:
1. If the person having the custody of the prisoner be designated
either by his name of office-if he.have any, or by his own name,
or if both such ndmes be unknown or uncertain, he may be described
by an assumed appellation, and any one who may be
served with the writ, shall be deemed the person to whom it is
directed, although it may be directed to him-by a wrong name or
description, or to another person;
2. If the person, who is directed to be produced, be designated
by name, or if. his name be uncertain or unkiown, he may be
described in any other way, so as to designate the person intended.
SEC. 8. If any judge authorized by the provisions of this chapter,
to grant writs of habeas corpus, shall willfully refuse to grant such
writ when legally applied for, he shall forfeit for every such
offense to the party aggrieved, one thousand dollars.
SEc. 9. The person upon whom any such writ shall have been duly served, shall state in his return, plainly and unequivocally: 1. Whether he have or have not the party in his custody or power or under his restraint, and if he have not, whether he has
had tbe party in his custody, or under his power or restraint at any,
and w hat time prior or subsequent to the date of the writ;
2. If he have the party in his custody or power, or under his restraint,
the authority and true cause of such imprisonment or restraint,
setting forth the same at large;
3. If the party be detained by virtue of any writ, warrant or
other written authority, a copy thereof shall be annexed to the return,
and the original shall be produced, and exhibited on the return
of the writ, to the judge, before whom the same is returnable;
4. If the person upon whom such writ shall have been served,
shall have had the party in his power or custody, or under his restraint
at any time prior or subsequent to the date of the writ, but
has transferred such custody or restraint to another, the return shall
state particularly to whom, at what time, for what cause, andby what
authority such transfer took place. The return shall be signed by 0 the person making the same, and except where such person shall be a sworn public officer, and shall make his return in his official
capacity, it shall be verified by oath.
SEC. 10. The person or officer on whom the habeas corpus shall been served, shall also bring the body of the person in his custody, according to the command of such writ, except in the case of the sickness of such person, as hereinafter provided.
SEc. 11. If the person upon whom such writ shall have been duly served, shall refuse or neglect to obey the same by producing the party named in such writ, and making a full and explicit return
to every such writ within the time required by the provisions of
this chapter, and no sufficient excuse shall bo shown for such refusal
or neglect, it shall be the duty of the judge before whom such
writ shall have been made returnable, upon due proof of the service
thereof, forthwith to issue an attachment against such person,
directed to the sheriff of any county in this territory, and commanding
him forthwith to apprehend such person and bring him immediately
before such judge; and on such person being so brought,
he shall be committed to close custody in the jail of the county in
which such judge shall be, until he shall make return to such writ,
and comply with any order that may be made by the judge in
relation to the person for whose relief such writ shall have been
issued.
SEC. 12. If a sheriff of any county shall have neglected to return such writ, the attachment may be directed to any coroner or other person to be designated therein, who shall have full power to execute
the same, and such sheriff upon being brought up, may be
committed to the jail of any county other than his own.
SEC. 13. The judge, by whom any such attachment shall be is- sued, may also, at the same time, or afterwards, issue a precept to the sheriff or other person to whom such attachment shall have been
directed, commanding him to bring forthwith, before such judge,
the party for whose benefit such writ shall have been allowed, who
shall thereafter remain in the custody of such sheriff or person, un11
til he shall be discharged, bailed, or remanded, as the judge shall
direct.
SEC. 14. In the execution of such attachment or precept, or either
of them, the sheriff or other person to whom they shall be directed,
may call to his aid the power of the county as in other cases.
SEc. 15. The judge, before whom the party shall be brought on such writ, shall immediately after the return thereof, proceed to examine into the facts contained in such return, and into the cause of
the confinement or restraint of such party, whether the same shall
have been upon commitment for any criminal or supposed criminal
matter, or not.
SEC. 16. If no legal cause be shown for such imprisonment or
restraint, or for the continuation thereof, the judge shall discharge
such party from the custody or restraint under which he is held.
SEc. 17. It shall be the duty of the judge forthwith to remand
such party, if it shall appear that he is legally detained in custody,
either
1. By virtue of process issued by any court or judge of the
United States, in a case where such court or judge has conclusive
jurisdiction; or,
2. By virtue of the final judgment or decree of any competent
court of civil or criminal jurisdiction, or of any execution issued
upon such judgment or decree; or jugmn decree;hcom 3. For any contempt, specially and plainly charged in the commitment,
by some court officer or body having authority to commit
for the contempt so charged; and
4. That the time during which such party may be legally detained, has not expired.
SEC. 18. If it appear on the return that the prisoner is in custody
by virtue of civil process of any court legally constituted, or
issued by an officer, in the course of judicial proceeding before him,
authorized by law, such prisoner shall only be discharged in one of
thofollowing cases:
1. When the jurisdiction of such court or officer has been exceeded,
either as to matter, place, sum or person;
2. When, though the original imprisonment was lawful, yet by
some act, omission or event which has taken place afterwards, the
party has become entitled to be discharged;
3. When the process is defective in some matter of substance required by law, rendering such process void;
4. When the process, though in proper form, has been issued in
a case not allowed by law;
5. When the person having the custody of the prisoner under
such process, is not the person empowered by law to detain him ; or
6. When the process is not authorized by any judgment or decree
of any court, nor by any provision of law.
SEC. 19. But no judge, on the return of any habeas corpus issued
under this chapter, shall have power to inquire into the legality or
justice of any judgment, decree or execution specified in section
seventeen.
SEc. 20. If it appear that the party has been legally committed
for any criminal offense, or if he appear by the testimony offered
with the return, upon the hearing thereof, to be guilty of such an
offense, although the commitment be irregular, the judge, before whom such party shall be brought, shall proceed to let such party
to bail, if the case be bailable, and good bail be offered, or if not,
shall forthwith, remand such party.
SEc. 21. If the party be not entitled to his discharge, and be not bailed, the judge shall remand him to the custody, or place him under the restraint from which he was taken, if the person under
whose custody or restraint he was, be legally entitled thereto; if
not so entitled, he shall be committed by such judge to the custody
of such officer or person as by law is entitled thereto.
SEc. 22. Until judgment be given upon the return, the judge before whom such party shall be brought, may either commit such
party to the custody of the sheriff of the county in which such
judge shall be, or place him in such care, or under such custody,
as his age and other circumstances may require.
SEc. 23. When it appears from the return of any such writ, that the party named therein is in custody on any process under which any other person has an interest in continuing his imprisonment or
restraint, no order shall be made for his discharge, until it shall
appear that the party so interested, or his attorney, if he have one
to be found within the county, shall have had sufficient notice of
the time and place at which such writ shall have been made returnable.
SEc. 24. When it shall appear from the return that such party is detained upon any criminal accusation, such judge shall make no order for the discharge of such party, until sufficient notice ofige the time and place at which such writ shall have been returned, or shall be made returnable, shall be given to the prosecuting attorney
of the county in which such judge shall be, if to be found
within the county.
SEc. 25. The party brought before any judge on the return of any writ of habeas corpus, may deny any of the material facts set forth in the return, or allege any fact to show either that his im- prisonment or detention is unlawful, or that he is entitled to his discharge, which allegations or denials shall be on oath; and thereupon
the judge shall proceed in a summary way to hear such allegations
and proofs, as may be produced ia support of such imprisonment
or detention, or against the same, and to dispose of such
party as the justice of the case may require.
SEC. 26. Whenever from sickness or infirmity of the person di. rected to be produced by any writ of hbeas corpus, such person cannot without danger be brought before the judge before whom
the writ is made returnable, the party in whose custody he is, may
state the fact in his return to the writ, verifying the same by his
oath, and if the judge be satisfied of the truth of such allegation,
and the return be otherwise sufficient, he shall proceed to decide
upon such return, and to dispose of the matter, and if it appear that
the person detained is illegally imprisoned, confined or restrained
of his liberty, the judge shall grant a writ of discharge, commanding
those having such pr;son in their custody, to discharge him
forthwith; and if it appear that such person is legally detained,
imprisoned or confined, and is not entitled to be bailed, such judge
shall cease from all further proceedings thereon.
SEC. 27. Obedience to any writ of discharge or to any order for
the discharge of any prisoner, granted pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter, may be enforced by the judge issuing such writ, or
granting such order by attachment, in the same manner as herein
provided for a neglect to make a return to a writ of habeas corpus,
and with the like effect in all respects; and the person guilty of
such disobedience, shall forfeit to the party aggrieved one thousand
dollars, iii addition to any special damage such party may have sustained.
SEC. 28. No sheriff or other officer shall be liable to any action at law for obeying any such writ or order of discharge, and if any
action shall be brought against such officer for suffering any person
committed to his custody to go- at large, pursuant to any such writ
or order, he may set up the same in answer in bar of the action.
SEC. 29. No person who has been discharged by the order of
any judge, upon a habeas corpus, issued pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter, shall be again imprisoned, restrained or kept custody for the same cause; but it shall not be deemed the same
cause:
1. If he shall have been discharged from a commitment on a
criminal charge, and be afterwards committed for the same offense
by legal order or process of the court wherein he shall be bound
by recognizance to appear, or in which he shall be indicted or convicted
for the same offense; or
2. If after a discharge for defective proof, or for any material
defect in the commitment in a criminal case, the prisoner be again
arrested on sufficient proof, and committed by legal process for the
same offense; or
3. If in a civil action the party has been discharged for any illeaction.
gality in the judgment or process hereinbefore specified, and is
afterwards imprisoned by legal process for the same cause of action;
or
4. If in any civil action he shall have been discharged from com- dicagd3 rmcm mitment on process, and shall be afterwards committed on execution
in the same cause, or on mesne process in any other cause,
after such first action shall have been discontinued.
SEc. 30. If any person shall knowingly re-commit, imprison, or restrain of his liberty, or cause to be committed, imprisoned, or
restrained of his liberty, for the same cause, except as provided in
the last section, any person so discharged, or shall knowingly aid
or assist therein, he shall forfeit to the party aggrieved one thousand
dollars.
SEC. 31. Any one having in his custody, or under his power, any person for whose relief a writ of habeas corpus shall have been, or is about to be duly issued, pursuant to this chapter, who, with
the intent to elude the service of such writ, or to avoid the effect
thereof, shall transfer such prisoner to the custody, or place him
under the power or control of another, or conceal him, or change
the place of his confinement, and every person who shall knowingly
aid or assist in so doing, shall forfeit to the party aggrieved
five hundred dollars.
SEC. 32. Whenever it shall appear by satisfactory proof that any person is held ;A illegal confinement, or custody, and that there is
good reason to believe that he will be carried out of the territory, or suffer some irreparable injury before he can be relieved by the issuing
of a habeas corputs, any judge authorized to issue such writs,
may issue a warrant reciting the facts, and directed to any sheriff,
constable, or other person, commanding such officer or person to
take such prisoner, and forthwith to bring him before such judge,
to be dealt with according to law.
SEc. 33. When the proof mentioned in the last section, shall also be sufficient to justify an arrest of the person having such pris- oner in his custody, as for a criminal offense, committed in the
taking or detaining of such prisoner, the warrant may also contain
an order for the arrest of such person for such offense.
SEC. 34. Any officer or person to whom such warrant shall be directed, shall execute the same by bringing the prisoner therein and the person who detains him, if so commanded by the
warrant, before the judge issuing the same; and thereupon the person
detaining such prisoner shall make a return in like manner, and
the like proceedings shall be had as if a writ of habeas corpus had
been issued in the first instance. SEc. 35. If the person having such prisoner in his custody, shall be brought before the judge as for a criminal offense, he shall be examined, committed, bailed or discharged by the judges in like manner as in other criminal cases of the like nature.
SEC. 36. Any officer or other person, refusing to deliver a copy any order, warrant, process or other authority, by which he shall detain any person, to any one who shall demand such copy, and
tender the fees therefore, shall forfeit two hundred dollars to the
person so detained.
SEC. 37. Every writ of habeas corpus may be made returnable at a day certain or forthwith, as the case may require.
SEc. 38. Every such writ shall be indorsed with a certificate that the same has been allowed, and with the date of such allowance,
which indorsement shall be signed by the judge allowing the writ.
SEC. 39. Writs of habeas corpus shall only be served by an elcc- tor of some county within this territory; and the service thereof shall not be deemed complete, so as to require the prisoner to be
brought up before the judge issuing the same, unless the party
serving the same, shall tender to the person in whose custody the
prisoner may be, if such person be a sheriff coroner, constable or
marshal, the fees allowed by law for bringing up such prisoner;
nor unless he shall also enter into an undertaking to such sheriff,
coroner, constable or marshal, as the case may be, in a penalty
double the amount of the sum for which such prisoner may be de.
tained, if he be detained for any specific sum of money; and if not,
then in such a sum as the judge granting the writ shall direct, not
exceeding one thousand dollars, conditioned that such person shall
pay the charges for carrying back such prisoner if he shall be remanded,
and that such prisoner will not escape by the way, either in
going to or returning from the place to which he is to be taken.
If such fees be not paid, or such security be not tendered, the
officer to whom the writ is directed, shall make return thereto, in
the manner required by section nine of this chapter, and thereupon,
thejudge granting the writ, may proceed as if the prisoner were
before him, or he may order him to be brought up notwithstanding.
SEC. 40. Every writ of habeas corpus, issued pursuant to this chapter, may be served by delivering the same to the person to
whom it is directed; if he cannot be found, it may be served
by being left at thejail or other place in which the prisoner may be
confined with any under officer, or other person of proper age,
having charge for the time of such prisoner.
SEC. 41. If the person on whom the writ ought to be served, at ttmtn
sceornvcee atlh eh ismams eI,f , or. refuse admittance to the party attempting to it may be served by affixing the same in some conspicuous
place on the outside, either of his dwelling-house or of the
place where the party is confined.
SEC. 42. The judge, allowing a writ of habeas corpus, directed
to any other than a sheriff, coroner, constable or marshal, may, in
his discretion, require as a duty to be performed, in order to render
the service thereof effectual, that the charges of bringing up such
prisoner, shall be paid by the applicant, and in such case, be shall,
in the allowance of the writ, specify the amount of such charges
so to be paid, which shall not exceed the fees allowed by law to
sheriffs for similar services.
SEC. 43. If the writ be returnable at a day certain, such return shall be made, .and such prisoner produced at the time and place
specified therein; if it be returnable forthwith, and the place be
within twenty miles of the place of service, such return shall be
made, and such prisoner shall be produced within twenty-four
hours; and the like tinie sball be allowed for every additional
twenty miles.
SEC. 44. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after
the first day of May next.

CHAPTER I.
QUALIFICATIONS AND EXEMPTION OF JURORS.
. 1. Qualifications ofjurors.
2. Persons exempt from acting as jurors.
S. When persons may be excused from acting as jurors.
niame. 
SEc. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the Territory of
Oregon, That a person shall not be competent to act as a juror, unless
he be:
1. A citizen of the United States;
2. An elector of the county in which he is returned;
3. Over twenty one and under sixty years of age; and
4. In possession of his'mental faculties;
5. Nor shall any person be competent to act as a juror who has
been convicted of a felony or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
SEc. 2. A person shall be exempt from liability to act as a juror, if he be: 1. A judicial officer;
2. Any other civil officer of this territory or of the United States,
whose duties at the same time are inconsistent with his attendance
as a juror;
3. An attorney or counsellor;
4. A minister of the gospel, or a priest of any denomination;
5. A teacher in a college, academy or school;
6. A practising physician;
7. An officer, keeper or an attendant of an alms-house, poorhouse,
hospital, asylum or other charitable institution, created by
or under the laws of this territory;
8. The captain, mate, or other officer or any person employed on
board of a steamer, vessel or boat navigating the waters of this
territory; also, ferrymen, millers and supervisors of roads.
SEC. 3. A person may be excused from acting as a juror, when any reason his interests or those of the public, will be materi- ally injured by his attendance, when his own health or the sickness
or death of a member of his family requires his absence.
CHAPTER II.
MANNER OF FORMING JURY LIST.
. 1. County commissioners when and how to form jury list.
2. Persons to be selected as jurors.
3 & 4. Jury list; what to contain.
5. Clerk to keep jury box, ballots how deposited.
SEC. 1. The county commissioners of each county shall at their first session of each year, or, in case of omission or neglect, then at any following session, make from the assessment roll of the county,
a list containg the names of persons to serve as jurors, until new
lists be returned.
SEC. 2. In preparing the jury list, the names of those persons only shall be selected who are known or believed to be possessed of the qualifications prescribed in this act, and not entitled to exemption.
SEC. 3. The jury list shall contain the names of one hundred and fifty persons, if there are that number of qualified jurors within the county. They shall be apportioned among the different sections of
the county, according to the number of persons on the assessment
roll.
SEc. 4. The jury lists shall contain the chrigtian and surname at length, and the place -of residence and occupation of each person
named therein, and shall be certified by the county commissioners
and filed with their clerk.
SEC. 5. The said clerk shall keep in his office a sufficient box, in which he shall prepare and deposit separate ballots, containing the
names of all the jurors on the list. Each ballot shall be folded so
that the name cannot be seen.
CHAPTER III.
MANNER OF DRAWING AND SUMMONING JURY.
SEo. 1. Clerk to draw ballots; who to assist him,.
2. Drawing when and where to take place.
3. Drawing, how to be conducted.
4. Trial jury; where and how to be drawn.
5. Clerk, &o., to sign the minutes of drawing.
6. Certilied list of trial and grand jurors to be given to sheriff.
7. Sheriff when and how to summon grand jurors.
8. Sherilf to return list of jurors summoned.
9. Jurors, when and how punished for failing to appear.
10. Number of jurors to constitute grand jury ; deliciencles how filled.
SEC. 1. The clerk of the board of commissioners shall call to his assistance the sheriff or his depfity, or a justice of the peace, and
proceed to draw the ballots as hereinafter provided.
SEC. 2. The drawing shall take place at the office of the said
clerk, not less than ten nor more than thirty days before the holdshal
ing of each regular term of court, provided that when any judge
shall appoint a district court for the indictment and trial of any
person, the drawing may take place at any time ordered by the
judge, and the jurors for such appointed court shall be summoned
forthwith by the sheriff.
SEC. 3. The drawing shall be conducted as follows:
1. The clerk shall shake the box containing the ballots so as to
mix them as much as possible;
2. He shall then draw out of the box twenty-three ballots, which
said twenty-three ballots first drawn shall constitute the grand
Jury;
3. A minute of the drawing shall be kept, in which shall be endawndtoe
tered the name contained on every ballot drawn, before any other
shall be drawn.
SEC. 4. After the grand jury is complpted, the clerk shall pro- ceed to draw twenty-four ballots, which shall constitute the trial
jury.
SEC. 5. The minutes of the drawing shall then be signed by the clerk and the attending officer, and forthwith filed in the office of
the clerk of the board of commissioners.
SEc. 6. A list of the names of persons drawn as grand jurors, and
a list of the names of persons drawn as trial jurors, shall then be Cil5 'i
made, and certified by the clerk, and delivered to the sheriff of the
county without delay.
SEC. 7. At least five days before the opening of the court, the
sheriff shall summon the persons named in the lists delivered to
him, to attend the court, by giving written notice to each of them
personally, or by leaving the same at his place of residence, with
some person of suitable age and discretion.
SEC. 8. The sheriff shall also return the lists to the district court
at its opening, specifying the persons summoned, and the manner
in which each was summoned.
SEC. 9. Every person who shall fail to appear when lawfully
summoned as a grand or petit juror, without having a reasonable
excuse, shall be considered as being guilty of a contempt, and shall be fined by the court in any sum not exceeding twenty dollars, for.
the use of the county, unless good cause be shown for such default,
at or before the next term of said court; and it shall be the duty
of the clerk of the district court, when directed by the court, to
issue a summons against such delinquent, when such person shall
not come in without process, to show cause at the next term of court
why he should not be fined for such contempt; Provided, that the
oath or affli-mation of any such delinquent, shall at all times be received
as evidence in his favor.
SEc. 10. When of the persons summoned as grand jurors, six- teen or any number over shall attend, they shall constitute the grand jury. If any number less than sixteen shall attend, they
shall be placed upon the grand jury, and the court shall order the
sheriff to summon from the body of the county a sufficient number
of persons to make up the deficiency. If the grand jury shall be
diminished by challenge, or disqualifications, the panel may be
filled in like manner.
CHAPTER IV.
FORMATION OF JURIES.
. 1. Jury how drawn.
2. When court may order sheriff to summon more jurors.
3. Clerk's certificate of juror's fees: fees how paid.
4. Privilege ofjurors.
5. Act when to take effect,
SEC. 1. The clerk of the district court, shall prepare separate folded ballots, containing the names of the petit or trial juries, and deposit them in a box. He shall -then draw from the box twelve
names, and the persons drawn shall form a jury unless some are
rejected by challenge, disqualification, or otherwise, in which case
the clerk shall continue to draw until the panel is complete.
SEC. 2. If necessary, the court may order the sheriff to summon persons from the body of the county to fill up the trial jury. 
SEC. 3. It shall be the duty of the clerk of' the district court at the close of each term of said court, to make out a list of the grand and petit juries, certifying the number of days of attendance, and
amount of compensation due to each one; which certificate shall
be presented to the board of county commissioners and allowed as
other demands against said county; Provided, that no juror shall
be paid out of the county treasury for any day's attendance as a
juror in the district court of the territory, for which he may have
received, or be entitled to receive pay as a juror of the district
court of the United States.
SEC. 4. All grand'and petit jurors shall be privileged from arrest, in all cases, except for breach of the peace, treason, felony, and other criminal offenses, during their attendance at said court,
going to and returning from the same; Provided, that when any
grand jury shall make presentment of one of their own body, he
shall be liable to be proceeded against in the usual form.
SEC. 5. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after
the first day of May next.

CHAPTER I.
LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
So. 1. Time of commencing actions in general.
2. Within twenty years.
3. Within ten years.
4. Within six years.
5. Within three years.
G. Within two years.
7. Within one year.
8. Actions for penalties, &c., by any person who will sue, when to be brought.
9. Actions for relief not before provided for.
10. T.hon cause of action accrued, in an action upon a current account.
11. Actions by the territory subject to the same limitation.
12. When action deemed to have been commenced.
13. Attempt to commence deemed equivalent to commencement of action.
14. Exception when defendant is out of territory or concealed.
15. Exceptions as to persons under disabilities.
16. Provisions where person entitled, dies before limitation expires.
17. In actions by aliens, time of war to be deducted.
18. Time of stay, by injunction, or statutory prohibition, to be deducted.
10. Provision when judgment has been reversed.
20. Disability must exist, when right of action accrued.
21. Where several disabilities, limitation does not attach, till all removed.
22. Acknowledgments or new promise must be in writing.
23. Limitation to commence from time of partial payment.
24. No cause of action barred by statute of state where it accrued, is actionable.
25. This chapter not to extend to actions already commenced.
26. Act when to take effect.
SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the rlritory
of Oregon, That actions shall only be commenced within the periods
prescribed in this chapter, after the cause of action shall have
accrued, except when in special cases a different limitation is prescribed
by statute. But in the district court the objection that the
action was not commenced within the time limited, can only be
taken by answer. ,
SEC. 2. The periods prescribed in the preceding section for the
6commencement of actions, shall be as follows:
1Vithin twenty years:
1. Actions for the recovery of real property, or for the recovery
of 'the possession thereof; and no action shall be maintained for
such recovery, unless it appear that the plaintifff his ancestor, predecessor
or grantor, was scised or possessed of the premises in
question, within twenty years before the commencement of the
action.
SEc. 3. Within ten years:
1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of the
United States, or of any state or territory within the United
States;
2. An action upon a sealed instrument. 
SEC. 4. Within six years: 1. An action upon a contract or liability, express or implied, excepting those mentioned in the last section; 2. An action upon a liability created by statute, other than a
penalty or forfeiture;
3. An action for waste or trespass upon real property;
4. An action for taking, detaining or injuring personal property, including an action for the specific recovery thereof ;
5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other injury
to the person or rights of another, not hereinafter enumerated.
6. An action for relief on the ground of fraud in cases cognizable
in a court of chancery; the cause of action in such case not
to be deemed to have accrued, until the discovery by the aggrieved
party of the facts constituting the fraud.
SEC. 5. Within -three years: 1. An action against a sheriff, coroner or constable, upon a la- bility incurred by the doing of an act in his official capacity, and in virtue of his office; or by the omission of an official duty; including
the non-payment of money collected upon an execution.
But this section shall not apply to an action for an escape.
2. Au action upon a statute for penalty or forfeiture, where the action is given to the party aggrieved, or to such party and the
territory, except where the statute imposing it prescribes a different
limitation.
SEC. 6. Within two years: 1. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or false impri- sonment.
2. An action upon a statute for a forfeiture or penalty to the
territory.
SEC. 7. Wlithin one-year: An action against a sheriff or other officer, for the escape of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process.
SEC. 8. An action upon a statute for a penalty given in the whole or in part to the person who will prosecute for the same, shall be commenced within one year after the commission of the offense; and if the action be not commenced within one year by a
private party, it may be commenced within two years thereafter,
in behalf of the territory, by the district attorney of the county
where the offense was committed.
SEC. 9. An action for relief not hereinbefore provided for, shall be com enced within ten years after the cause of action shall have accrued.

SEc. 10. In an action brought to recover a balance due upon a mutual, open, and current account, where there have been recipro- cal demands between the parties, the cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued from- the time of the last item proved in the account
on either side.
SEc. 11. The limitations prescribed in this chapter, shall apply to actions inite actions brought in the name of the territory, or for its benefit, in the same manner as to actions by private parties, 
SEc. 12. An action shall be deemed commenced as to each de.
fendant, when the summons is served on him, or on a co-defendant
who is a joint contractor, or otherwise united in interest with him.
SEC. 13. An attempt to commence an action shall be deemed
equivalent to the commencement thereof, within the meaning of
this chapter, when the summons is delivered, with the intent that
shall be actually served to the sheriff or other officer of the
county in which the defendants or one of them usually or last resided;
or if a corporation be defendant, to the sheriff or other officer
of the county in which such corporation was established by
law, or where its general business was transacted, or where it kept
an office for the transaction of business. But such an attempt shall
be followed by the first publication of the summons, or the service
thereof within sixty days.
SEc. 14. If when the cause of action shall accrue against any
person, who shall be out of the territory, or concealed, such action
may be commenced within the terms herein respectively limited,
after the return of such person into the territory, or the time of
his concealment; and if, after such cause of action shall have acdo.
crued, such person shall depart from and reside out of this territory, or conceal himself, the time of his absence or concealment shall not
be deemed or taken as any part of the time limited for the commencement
of such action.
SEC. 15. If a person entitled to bring an action mentioned in
this chapter, except for a penalty or forfeiture, or against aerlif
or other officer for an escape, be, at the time the cause of action
accrued, either:
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or
2. Insane; or
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under the
sentence of a criminal court for a term less than his natural life; or
4. A married woman;
The time of such disability shall not be a part of the time limited
for the commencement of the action.
SEC. 16. If a person entitled to bring an action, die before the
xpiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and
the cause of action survive, an action may be commenced by his - representatives after the expiration of Ohe time, and wiLhini one
year from his death. If a person against whom an action may be
brought, die before the expiration of the time limited for the commencement
thereof, and the cause of action survives, an action may
be commenced against his representatives after the expiration of
that time, and within one year after the issuing of letters testamentary
or of administration.
SEc. 17. When a person shall be an alien subject or citizen of a
country at war with the United Stateg, the time of the continuance
of the Wr shall not be a part of the period limited for the commencement
of the action.
SEC. 18. When the commencement of an action is stayed by injunction or a statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance' of
the injunction or prohibition, shall not be a part of the time limited
for the commencement of the action.
SEC. 19. If an action shall be commenced within the time preme
scribed therefore, and a judgment therein for the plaintifff be reversed on appeal, the plaintifff or if he die, and the cause of action survives, his heirs or representatives, may commence a new action within one year after the reversal. 
SEc. 20. No person shall avail himself of a disability unless it existed-when his right of action accrued. 
SEC. 21. When two or more disa'ilities stall co-exist at the time the right of action accrues, the limitaion shall not attach until they all be removed. 
SEC. 22. No acknowledgment or promise shall be sufficient evi- dence of a new or continuing contract, whereby to take the case out of the operation of this chapter, unless the same is contained in some writing, signed by the party to be charged thereby; but this section shall not alter the effect of any payment of principal or interest.
SEc. 23. Whenever any payment of principil or interest has been or shall be made upon an existing contract, whether it be bill of exchange, promissory note, bond or other evidence of in- debtedness, if such payment be made after the same shall have
become due, the limitation shall commence from the time the
last payment was made.
SEc. 24. When the cause of action has arisen in another state, territory or country, between non-residents of this territory, and by the la, s of the state, territory or country where the cause of action arose, an action cannot be maintained thereon by reason of the lapse of time, no action shall be maintained thereon in this territory.
SEC. 25. This chapter shall not extend to actions already com- menced, but the statutes now in force shall be applicable to such cases, according to the subject of the action, and without regard to nor shall any cause of action, barred by the statutes now in force, be revised by the provisions of this chapter.
SEC. 26. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after
the first day of May next.

CHAPTER I.
SUITS IN EQUITY.
TITLE I. Proceedings in Equity.
TITLE II. Of lVrits of Ne .eat.
TITLE III. Of the Granting of Injunctions.
TITLE IV. Of the Foreclosure of Afortgages.
TITLE V. AHiscellaneous Provisions.
TITLE I.
Proceedings in Equity.
. 1. Exclusive juri: iction of district court in equity.
2. Suits in equity where brought.
3. 'romplaint, how addressed and what to contain.
4. Pleadings of defendant.
5. Exceptions for insufficioney abolished, allegations doomed true unless denied.
Sc G. Complaint and answer, how verified.
7. Rule irequiring answer to be overcome, by two witnesses, &c., abolished.
- 8. Examination of parties, consequence of parties refusing to be examined.
9. AdmEssions of fraud &c., not to be used except for relieC
10. In suits for recovery of money, set-offs, how to be allowed.
11. Subpoena, how to issue and when returnable.
12, Subpoenas, when several defendants reside in different counties.
13. Service, how made.
14, Copy of bill to accompany subptona.
15, Notice of suit by order, when and how given to non-residents.
10. Notice of suit by order when defendant cannot be found by sheriff.
17. When names of parties are unknown to defendant.
18. Order against non-resident, absent or unknown defendant, how published.
19. When complainant may serve copy of bill out of territory.
20. Delivery, in such case how made.
21. Proceedings when several absent defendants have not been served.
22. Time allowed defendant to plead after service of aubpocna.
23. Proceedings when defendant neglects to plead.
24. Defendant may exhibit interrogatories to complainant.
25. Complainant's answer evidence.
2G. Complainant, when required to -answer cross bill.
27. Rules by consent to be entered.
28. Amendments, how allowed.
29. Cause, when deemed at issue.
30. Issue of fact, how tried.
31. Rules for taking depositions.
32. Bill, when dismissed.
33. Proceedings if defendant does not appear.
34. Complainant to give bond after decree and before issue of process against
absent defendant
35. When defendant may have the decree opened.
30. Rights of bona fide purchaser protected.
37. Effects of linal decree.
38. Decree, when to'be considered executed.
39. Decree, how enforced.
40. Certain duties not to abate.
41. Proceedings by surviving parties.
42. Bill of revivor not necessary to revive suits against representatives, &c.
43. Service of order of revival, &c.
41 & 45. Proceedings in such cases, if no answer or disclaimer.
46 & 47. Husband, how made a party, and his privileges as such.
SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the Territory of
Oregon, that the district courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction
of all suits in equity.
SEC. 2. A suit in equity shall be brought in the county in which
an action at law might be brought for a like purpose.
SEc. 3. The bill of the complainant shall be addressed " to the
District Court of the county of - ," and shall consist of a statement
of the facts constituting the cause of action, and a prayer for
specific relief; upon which any relief may be given applicable to
the facts stated; the charges and interrogatories, the confederacy
and jurisdiction clauses, and the prayers for -answer, for process,
and for general relief shall be omitted.
SEC. 4. The defendant may disclaim, demur, plead or answer as
heretofore, om1itting all savings, protestations, prayers for disaissal,
and other matters of mere form.
SEC. 5. Exceptions for insufficiency are hereby abolished, and
every allegation in the bill not directly denied by the answer, or
denied on belief, shall be taken to be true until disproved.
SEC. 6. The bill of the complainant, as well as the answer of the
defendant, shall be verified by oath, to the effect that the same is
true to the knowledge of the person making it, except as to matters
stated on information and belief, and as to those matters that he believes it to be true.
SEc. 7. The rule requiring the answer to be overcome by two witnesses, or their equivalent, is hereby abolished, and the credibil- ity and effect of the answer, as evidence, shall be judged of as the statement of a witness in the same situation. SEC. 8. Either party may examine the adverse party as a wit- ness, and his refusal to testify, shall be taken as a confession of the bill or answer, as the case may be, saving the privilege of declining
to answer questions which might subject the party to prosecution
for felony; but an improper refusal to answer, under pretense of
privilege, and other evasion in testifying, shall be taken as proof
of the particular fact sought to be established.
SEc. 9. No person shall be privileged from disclosing his fraudu- lent conveyances, confessions of judgment, or other fraudulent, ille- gal, or improper acts or omissions, affecting the rights of others, but his admissions shall not be used against him except for the relief of
the injured party.
SEc. 10. In suits for the payment, or recovery of money, set-off shall be allowed in the same manner, and with the like effect, as in
actions at law.
SEc. 11. Upon the filing of the bill the clerk shall issue a subpmna, returnable to the next term of the court, and directed to the sheriff of the county in which the defendant resides, requiring
him to summon the defendant to appear and answer the bill.
SEC. 12. When there are several defendants residing in different counties, a separate subpcona shall be issued to each county, includ. ing all the defendants residing therein. 

SEC. 13. Every subpoena or process for appearance shall be served on the person to whom it is directed, by giving him a copy thercof or if he be not found, by leaving a copy with some white
person of the family above the age of fourteen years, at the dwellinghouse or usual place of abode of the defendant.
SEC. 14. A copy of the bill shall accompany the subpona and be delivered to the defendant, or left at the dwelling-house or place of abode of the defendant. If there be more than one defendant,
such copy shall be given to the defendant, who shall be first served
with the subpoena.
SEc. 15. If any complainant or any person for him, shall file with his bill an affidavit, stating that part or all the defendants are non- residents of the territory, the clerk shall make an order directed to the non-residents, notifying them of the commencement of the suit,
and stating briefly the object and general nature of the bill, and
requiring them to appear on a day to be named therein, (allowing
sufficient time for publication) to appear nd answer the bill, or that
the same will be taken as confessed.
SEC. 16. When a subpana shall be issued against any defendant, the sheriff to whom it is directed, shall make return that the defendant cannot be found, the court being first satisfied that process
cannot be served, shall make an order as is required in the
preceding section in the case of non-resident defendants.
SEc. 17. If any complainant shall allege in his bill that there are, or that he verily believes there are persons ionet erieasmteesd in the subject
matter of the bill, whose names he cannot insert therein liecause
they are unknown to him, and shall describe the interest of such
persons, and how derived so far as his knowledge extend,, and
shall verify such allegations by affidavit to his bill annexed, the
court, or in vacation, the judge or clerk thereof, shall make an order
as in case of non-residents, reciting moreover all allegations in relation
to the interest of such unknown parties.
SEC. 18. Every order against non-resident, absent, or unknown
defendants, shall be published in some newspaper printed in this
territory, for eight weeks successively, the last insertion to be at
least four weeks before the commencement of the term at which the
defendants are required to appear.
SEC. 19. The complainant may cause a copy of the bill with a
notice of the suit, to be delivered to any known defendant residing
or being out of this territory, atany place within the United States
or their territories, two months before the commencement of the
term at which such defendant is required to appear.
SEc. 20. Such delivery may be made by any white person above
the age of twenty-one years, who is a competent witness in the
cause, and being proved by the affidavit or depositicn of such person,
shall be as eectual as the service of the subpcona, and the delivery
of a copy of the bill in this territory.
SEc. 21. When there are several defendants, some of whom have not been served with process, and do not appear, the complainant
may proceed against those, if any, who do appear, unless the court
for good cause shall otherwise direct; or he may continue the
cause, and proceed to bring in the other defendants by process or
publication, as the case may require.
SEC. 22. If the subpoena shall have been served thirty days
before the return day thereof, the defendant shall file his plea,
demurrer or answer to the bill, on or before the third day of the term at which the process is returnable. If it shall have been
served less than thirty days before such return day, the defendant
shall file his plea, demurrer or answer within thirty days next after
such return day. In either case the court may for just cause, allow
the defendant further time to file the same.
SEC. 23. If the defendant shall not file his plea, demurrer or
answer within the time prescribed by the last section, the bill may
be taken as confessed, and the court may thereupon, at its discretion,
render a decree thereon, or order the complainant to prove
the allegations in his bill, or examine him on oath, touching such
allegations, and such decree shall then be made, as the court shall
deem just and equitable.
SEC. 24. The defendant, after he shall have filed his answer,
may exhibit interrogatories to the complainant, which shall be
answered by him on oath or affirmation, unless excepted to, and
the exception allowed; and if the complainant shall not answer
such interrogatories within the time appointed by the court, his
bill may be dismissed with costs.
SEC. 25. The answer of the complainant to such interrogatories, shall be evidence in the cause, in the same manner as the answer
of the defendant.
SEC. 26. If a cross-bill be filed by the defendant, he shall put in his answer to the complainant's bill before the complainant shall be required to put in his answer to such cross-bill. 
SEc. 27. All rules, common or special, by consent of the parties or their solicitors, shall be entered of course with the clerk, whe- ther in term time or vacation.
SEc. 28. All proper amendments shall be made with or without and on such equitable terms as the court may direct; and the court shall have the same power to allow amendments or the
correction of mistakes, supply omissions or defects, extend the
time within which an act may be done, and relieve a party from a
judgment, decree, order or other proceeding taken against him
through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect,
and to allow any proceeding to be conformed to the provisions of
the statute as in actions at law.
SEC. 29. Every cause in a court of chancery shall be deemed to at issue on filii2g a replication, or at the expiration of the time therefore, if none be filed, nor further time allowed, and it shall
not be necessary to issue a subpoena, or enter a rule to rejoin.
SEC. 30. If there be an issue of fact which shall render the inter- vention ofL a jury necessary, the court may direct an issue for the trial of the same, and the verdict shall be entered of record, and
may be used on the hearing of the cause. In other cases, the
court may order a reference to take and report the proofs and
evidence in the cause, or take them in open court in term time or
in vacation.
SEc. 31. Depositions may be taken in cases in chancery, in the same manner as is provided in actions at law; and the rules of evidence shall be the same in chancery as at law.
SEC. 32. If the complainant shall not attend at the time ap- pointed for the hearing of the cause, his bill may be dismissed with costs.
SEc. 33. If the defendant shall not attend at the time appointed for the hearing of the cause, the bill, answer, replication, documents proofs shall be read, the witnesses examined, and the court shall thereupon make such decree as it shall deem equitable and
just, or dismiss the complainant's bill.
SEC. 34. In cases where a decree shall be made upon any bill equity against an absent defendant, the court, before issuing process to compel the performance of such decree against such absent defendant, may require the complainant to give bond with
such security and in such sum as it may direct, to abide such decree
or order touching the restitution of the property of such absent
defendant, or the re-payment of any sum of money which the complainant
may receive by virtue of such decree, but-which shall
afterwards be made to appear as hereinafter provided not to have
been due to him; and in case no security shall be given, no process
or execution shall issue to compel the performance of the decree
so made against such absent defendant; but the property of
such absent defendant may, by order of the court, be sequestered
under the direction of the court, to abide such order as it may think
just and proper respecting the same.
SEC. 35. in case any such absent defendant, against whom a
decree shall be made, his heirs, devisees, executors, administratom
or assigns, as the case may require, shall, within one year after
notice be given to him of such decree, or within three years after
such decree shall have been made, if no notice as aforesaid shall
have been given, petition the court touching the matter of such
decree, and pay or secure, or cause to be paid, such costs as the
court may think reasonable to order and direct; then, and in such
case, the person aforesaid petitioning, may be permitted to appear
and answer the complainant's bill, and thereupon such proceedinga
shall be had, as if such absent defendant had appeared in due
season, and no decree had been made;. or such absent defendant.
may, within the times aforesaid, file his bill of review in the said
court for an account and settlement of the amount which was,
really due, and owing to the complainant at the time of the decreer
to compel the complainant to refund what he may wrongfully
have recovered and received, together with the interest from the
time of the receipt thereof, with costs of suit, the former decree
against such absent defendant notwithstanding; but in case no
petition shall be presented, or bill filed as before provided for,
within one year from the time of notice as aforesaid shall be givent
due proof thereof being made, or within three years from the de,
cree, such decree shall be adjudged to be confirmed, which confirmation
shall have relation to the time of making such decree;
and the decree shall be executed and performed as in cages where
the defendant had duly appeared,
SEC. 86. The title to any real or personal property which shall
have passed into the hands of a bona fide purchaser, by virtue of the former decree, shall not be affected byany proceedings under
the last section.
SEC. 37. A final decree of a court of chancery shall have the
same operation, force and effect from the time of signing the same,
as ajudgment at law.
SEC. 38. When a decree shall be made for a conveyance, reoxecuted
lease, or acquittance in any court of chancery, and the party against
whom any such decree shall pass, fails to comply therewith by the
time appointed, such decree shall be considered and taken in all
courts of law and equity, to have the same operation and effect,
and be as available as if the conveyance, release or acquittal had
been executed conformably to such decree.
SEC. 39. A court of chancery, or a judge thereof in vacation, shall have power to enforce its decrees, orders and injunctions by
attachment, sequestration, or by such process against the real or
personal property, or against the person of any defendant, as the
usages of chancery allow; and such process shall be obeyed, executed
and returned by the sheriff or other officer to whom the
same shall be directed, in like manner and under the same penalties
as is provided in cases of process issuing from a court of law.
SEC. 40. When the cause of action shall survive, no suit in chan- Cery shall abate by the death of one or more of the complainants or
defendants; but upon satisfactory suggestion to the court, the
cause shall proceed in favor of or against the surviving parties.
SEc. 41. When one or more of the complainants or defendants
shall die, and the cause of action shall not survive, the suit shall
abate only as to the person or persons so dying, and the surviving parties may proceed without reviving the suit.
SEc. 42. No bill of revivor shall be necessary to revive a suit the representatives of a deceased defendant, but the court may, by order, direct the same to stand revived upon the petition
of the complainant.
SEC. 43. A copy of such order shall be served upon the repre- against whom the revival is ordered, who shall be allowed thirty days after service, or such further time as the court
may allow to appear and answer, or disclaim.
SEC. 44. If they shall not within the time prescribed in the last appear an'd answer or disclaim, the court, upon due proof of the service of such order, may cause their appearance to be entered,
and in such case, the answer of the deceased party shall be
deemed the answer of such representatives.
SEC. 45. If no answer have been filed by the deceased party, the court may order the bill to be taken as confessed against such representatives,
or compel them to answer by attachment or otherwise.
SEC. 46. If a female party to a suit marry at any time before a final decree, her husband may, on his application, be made a coM- plainant or defendant with her, on the order of the court, in which
the suit is -pending, or the judge thereof, to be granted on due proof
of 'the marriage, and after notice to such female party, and the
other paities to the suit.
SEC. 47. Such husband may also be made a party with his on the application of any other party to the suit, by petition, upon proof of the marriage, and notice to such husband and wife,
and file other parties to the suit. In such cases the husband may
contest all facts in the same manner as if he had originally been
made a party.
TITLE II.
Writs of Ne Exeat.
. SEU. 48. 1e exeat, by whom granted.
49. Proceedings to obtain ne exeat.
50. When ne exeat may be discharged.
SEc. 48. The district court, as a court of chancery, or any judge thereof in vacation, may grant writs of ne exeat, to prevent any per- son from going out of the territory, until he shall give security.
SEC. 49. No writ of ne exeat shall be granted, but upon bill or pe- tition filed, and affidavit of the complainant, or some other person, of the truth thereof; and the court or judge granting the writ, shall
direct to be indorsed thereon, the amount of the security to be
given to the defendant.
SEC. 50. If the defendant shall, by answer or otherwise, satisfy the court or judge granting such writ of ne exeat, that there is no for his restraint, or shall give security for the performance of whatever decree may be made in the premises, the writ may be
discharged.
TITLE III.
Of Granting Injunctions.
. 51. Injunction, when to issue.
52. How granted.
53. Not to stay proceedings at law unless undertaking be given.
54. Proceedings when injunction for recovery of money has been dissolved.
55. Proceedings of sheriff, when execution debtor obtains injunction.
SEC. 51. No writ of injunction shall be issued in any case, but
upon bill or petition filed, verified by the oath of the person applying
for such injunction, or by some competent witness.
SEC. 52. Writs of injunction may be granted by the court or a
judge thereof in vacation; but no injunction shall issue in any case,
until the complainant shall execute a bond or undertaking, with
one or more sureties, in such sum as the court or judge shall deem
sufficient, conditioned that the complainant will abide the decision
which shall be made thereon, and pay all sums of money, damages
and costs that may be adjudged against him if the injunction should
be dissolved.
SEc. 53. No injunction shall operate to stay proceedings at law,
before or after judgment, until the party obtaining the same shall
kingivabodr
give a bond or undertaking with sufficient security, to be approved
by the clerk of the court, in the amount required by the court or
judge granting such injunction, for the payment of all monies and
costs due, or to become due from the complainant in such action,
or judgment at law, and all monies and costs that may be decreed
against him in case such injiunction shall be dissolved.
SEC. 54. In all cases where an injunction shall be allowed to
stay proceedings at law in an action for the recovery of money
only, upon the dissolution of the injunction and dismissal of the
bill, the court shall render a decree in favor of the defendant (plain- tiff at law) for the debt, or damages, interest and costs accruing in
chancery, together with five per centum penalty on the amount
of debt or damages and interest.
SEC. 55. When a sheriff or other officer has received the whole or any part of the money for the collection of which an execution
has issued, and the person against whom such execution has isjunction.
sued, his executors or administrators shall obtain an injunction to
stay the proceedings under such execution, the sheriff or other
officer shall repay to the person against whom such execution issued,
his executors, -administrators or attorney of record, the
money so received, or such part thereof as maybe enjoined, retain
ing sufficient to pay the costs of the collection by execution; Provided,
the money has not been paid over to the plaintifff, his executors,
administrators or attorney of record.
TITLE IV.
Of the Foreclosure of Mortgages.
. 56. When sale of premises may be decreed.
57. Payment of balance due after sale may be decreed.
58. No proceedings to be had at law during pendency of suit.
59. Payment of balance by surety of mortgagee may be decreed.
60. Proceedings at lav to be stated in bill.
Sec. 61. In certain case, execution at law must have been returned. 62. Sales of mortgaged premises, when, and by whom to be made.
63. Rights of redemption by mortgagor, or lien creditor after sale.
64. Sheriff's deed, its effect, &e.
65. Proceeds of sale, how applied.
66. Surplus, when to be invested.
67. Defendant may dismiss bill, on paying portions, &c., due.
68. Proceedings if payment made after decree of sale.
69. Proceedings if no payment made; when part of premises to be sold.
10. Proceedings to collect subsequent instalments.
71. In what cases the whole of mortgaged premises to be sold.
12. Proceeds of sale, in such cases, how applied.
SEc. 56. Whenever a bill shall be filed for the foreclosure or of a mortgage, the court shall have power to decree a sale of the mortgaged premises, or such part thereof as may be sufficient
to discharge the amount due on the mortgage and costs of
suit.
SEc. 57. When a bill shall be filed for the foreclosure or satis- faction of a mortgage, the court shall have power not only to de- cree and compel the delivery of the possession of the premises to purchaser thereof, but on the coming in of the report of sale,
the court shall have power to decree and direct the payment
by the mortgagor of any balance of the mortgage debt that may remain
unsatisfied after a sale of the premises, in the cases in which
such balance is recoverable at law; and for that purpose may is- the necessary executions, as in other cases, against other pro- perty of the mortgagor.
SEc. 58. After such bill shall be filed, while the same is pending, after a decree rendered thereon, no proceeding whatever shall be had at law for the recovery of the debt secured by the mortgage, any part thereof; unless authorized by the court.
SEC. 59. If the mortgage debt be secured by the obligation or 0 0 other evidence of debt of any person other than the mortgagor, the complainant may make such other person a party to the bill, and the court may decree payment of the balance of such debt remaining
unsatisfied after a sale of the mortgaged premises, as well
against such other person as the mortgagor, and may enforce such
decree as in other cases.
SEc. 60. Upon filing a bill for the foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage, the complainant shall state whether any proceedings have been had at law for the recovery of the debt secured thereby, or any part thereof, and whether such debt, or any part thereof
has been collected or paid.
SEc. 61. If it appear that any judgment has been obtained in a suit at law for the monies demanded by such bill, or any part thereof, no proceedings shall be had in such case, unless to an exe- cution against the property of the defendant in such judgment, the
sheriff shall have returned that the execution is unsatisfied in whole
or in part, and that the defendant has no property whereof to satisfy
such execution, except the mortgaged premises.
SEC. 62. All sales of mortgaged premises under the decree of a court of chancery, shall be made by the sheriff in the county where the premises, or some part of them are situated, unless otherwise directed in the decree of sale.
SEc. 63. Sales of mortgaged premises shall be made by the
sheriff or other officer, in the same manner as other sales of. real
property on execution, unless otherwise directed by the court; and
the mortgagor, or any lien creditor shall have the same rights of
redemption after a sale. 
SEC. 64. After the right of redemption shall have passed, deeds
shall be executed by the sheriff or other officer, which shall vest in
the purchaser the same estate, and no other or greater than would have vested in the mortgagee if the equity of redemption had been
foreclosed; and such deeds shall be as valid as if executed by the
mortgagor and mortgagee, and shall be an entire bar against either
of them, and against all parties to the suit in which the decree for
such sale was made, and against their heirs respectively, and all
persons claiming under such heirs.
SEC. 65. The proceeds of every such sale made under a decree
in chancery, shall be applied to the discharge of the.debt adjudged
by such court to be due, and of the costs awarded; and if there'
be any surplus, it shall be brought into court for the use of the
defendant, or of the person entitled thereto, subject to the order of
the court.
SEC. 66. If such surplus, or any part thereof, shall remain in the
said court for the term of three months without being applied'for,
the district judge may direct the same to be put out at intere3t,
subject to the order of the court for the benefit of the defendant,
his representatives or assigns, to be paid to them by the order of 'the
court.
SEC. 67. Whenever a bill shall be filed for the satisfaction or fore- closure of any mortgage upon which there shall be due any interest, or any portion or instalment of the principal, and there shall
be other portions or instalments to become due subsequently, the
bill shall be dismissed, upon the defendant's bringing into court, at
any time before the decree of sale, the principal and interest, with
costs.
SEC. 68. If after a decree of sale entered against a defendant in
such case, he shall bring into court the principal and, interests due,
with costs, the proceedings in the suit shall be stayed, but the court
shall enter a decree of foreclosure and sale, to be enforced by a
further order of the court upon a subsequent default in the payment
of any portion or instalment of the principal, or any interest
thereafter to grow due.
SEC. 69. If the defendant shall not bring into court the amount
due, with costs, or if for any other cause a decree shall pass for the
complainant,'the court may direct a reference to a master to ascertain
and report the situation of the mortgaged premises, or may determine
the same on oral or other testimony: and if it shall appear
that the same can be sold in parcels without injury to the interests
of the parties, the decree shall direct so much of the mortgaged
premises to be sold as will be sufficient to pay the amount then due
on the. mortgage, with costs: and such decree shall remain as security
for any subsequent default.
SEC. 70. If, in the case mentioned in the preceding section, there
shall be any default subsequent to such decree, in the payment of
any portion or instalment of the principal, or of any interest due
upon such mortgage, the court may, upon petition of the complainant, by a further order founded upon such first decree, direct a sale of so much of the mortgage premises to be made under such decree,
as will be sufficient to satisfy the amount so due, with the costs of
such petition, and the subsequent proceedings thereon: and the
same proceedings may be had as often as a default shall happen.
SEC. 71. If in any of the foregoing cases, it shall appear to the court that the iortgaged premises are so situated that a sale of the whole will be raost beneficial to the parties, the decree shall in the first
instance, be entered for a sale of the whole premises accordingly. SEc. 72. In such case the proceeds of such sale shall be applied as well to the interest portion or instalment of the principal due, as towards the whole, or residue of the sum secured by such mortgage
and not due and payable at the time of such sale; and if such residue
do not bear interest, then the court may direct the same to be
paid, with a deduction of the legal interest for the time during
which such residue shall not be due and payable, or the court may
direct the balance of the proceeds of such sale, after paying the sum
due.with costs, to be put out at interest for the benefit of the complainant,
to be paid to him as the instalments or portions of the
principal, or the interest may become due, and the surplus for the
benefit of the defendant, his representatives or assigns, to be paid
to them on the order of the court.
TITLE V.
.scellaneous Provsions.
8&0. 13. MRster in chancery, how appointed, his powers, compensation.
74. Receiver not to be appointed until after notice given.
15. Supreme court may prescribe rules for court of chancery.
76. Appeals from chancery to supreme court.
? v. Act when to take effect.
SEc. 73. Whenever it shall be deemed necessary, the court may appointa master in chancery; such master shall be sworn and give bond if required, for the faithful performance of the duties assigned and shall have power to administer oaths in any proceeding
before him, and shall receive for his services such reasonable compensation
as the court may allow.
SEc. 74. No receiver shall be appointed in any cause commenced or pending in chancery, until after notice is given to the adverse party.
SEc. 75. It shall be lawful for the supreme court from time to time, to make, alter or amend, or revoke any rule of practice, so as to obviate doubts, advance.justice and expedite suits in the courts of chancery, so that the same be not contrary to the provisions of
any statute.
SEC. 76. Any person aggrieved by the final decision in a suit in equity, may appeal to the supreme court within the same time and under the same regulations as are prescribed for prosecuting writs of error at law, so far as the same mity be applicable, but without
impairing the geneial discretionary powers of courts of equity in
cases of appeal.
SEc. 77. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after the first day of May next.

