‘of action at law, for the enforcement of private rights or the redress

of private wrongs.

SEC. 2. In such action the party complaining shall be known as
the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant,

TITLE II.

Of the time of their commencement.

Sac. 3. Time of commencing actions in general. 16. Exception when defendant is out of state,

4. Within twenty years. or concealed.

5. Within ten years. 17. Exceptions as to persons under disabilties.
. Withiii six years. 18. Provisions where person entitled, dies be. Within three years. fore limitation expires.

. Within two years. 19. In actions by aliens, time of war to be
. Within one year. deducted.
. Actions for penalties, &c., by any per- 20. Time of stay, by injunction, or statutory
son who will sue, when to be brought. prohibition, to be deducted.
. Actions for relief not before provided 21. Provision when judgment has been reversed.
for. 22. Disability must exist. when right of action
. When cause of action accrued, in an accrued.
action upon acurrent account. 23. Where several disabilities, limitation does
. Actions by the state, subject to the notattach, till all removed.
same limitation. 24. Acknowledgments or new promise must be
. When action deemed to have been com- in writing.
menced. ' 25. Limitation to commence from time of par. Attempt to commence deemed equiva- tial payment.
lent to commencement of action. 26. N 0 cause of action barred by statute of
state where it accrued, is actionable.

SEC. 3. Actions at law shall only be commenced within the periods
prescribed in this title, after the cause of action shall have accrued;
except where, in special cases a different limitation is prescribed by
statute. But the objection that the action was not commenced within
the time limited, shall only be taken by answer, except as otherwise

provided in section 66.

SEC. 4. The periods prescribed in the preceding section for the
commencement of actions, shall he as follows:

Within twenty years:
1. Actions for the recovery of real property, or for the recovery

of the possession thereof; and no action shall be maintained for such
recovery, unless it appear that the plaintifff, his ancestor, predecessor
or grantor, was seized or possessed of the premises in question, within
twenty years before the commencement of the action. 2

SEC. 5. Within ten years:

1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any courtiof the
United States, or of any state or territory within the United States;
2. An action upon a sealed instrument.

SEC. 6. Within six years:

1. An action upon a contract or liability, express or implied, '

excepting those mentioned in section 5;

2. An action upon a liability created by statute, other than a
penalty or forfeiture;

3. An action for waste or trespass upon real property; _

4. An action for taking, detaining or injuring personal property,
‘including an action for the specific recovery thereof;

5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other injury to
the person or rights of another, not arising on contract, and not hereinafter enumerated.

SEC. 7. Within three years:

1. An action against a sheriff, coroner or constable, upon a liability incnrred by the doing of an act in his ofiicial capacity, and in
virtue of his odice; or by the omission of an oiiicial duty; including
the non-payment of money collected upon. an execution. But this

section shall not apply to an action for an escape;
2. An action upon a statute for penalty or forfeiture, Where the

action is given to the party‘ aggrieved, or to such party and the state;
except where the statute imposing it prescribes a diiibrent limitation.

SEC. 8. Within two years:
1. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or false imprisonment;
2. An action upon a statute for a forfeiture or penalty to the state.

SEC. 9. \Vithin one year:
An action against a sheriff or other officer, for: the escape of a

prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process..

SEC. 10.. An action upon a statute for apenalty given in the Whole
or in part to the person who will prosecute for the same, shall be commenced within one year after the commission of the offense; and if
the action be not commenced within one year by a private party, it
may be commenced within two years thereafter, in behalf of the state,
by the district attorney of the county where the offense was committcd, or is triable.

SEC. 11. An action for any cause not hereinbefore provided for;.

shall be commenced within ten years after the cause of action shall
have accrued.

Sac. 12. In an action brought to recover a balance due upon a
mutual, open, and current account, where there have been reciprocal
demands between the parties, the cause of action shall be deemed to
have accrued from the time of the last item proved in the account on
either side; but whenever a period of more than one year shall elapse,
between any of a series of items or demands they are not to be deemed
such an account.

SEC. 13. The limitations prescribed in this chapter, shall apply to
actions brought in the name of the state, or any county or other
public corporation therein, ‘or for its benefit, in the same manner as to
actions by private parties.

Sac. 14. An action shall be deemed commenced as to each defendant, when the complaint is filed and the summons served on him, or
on a co-defendant who is a joint contractor, or otherwise united in
interest with him.

SEC. 15. An attempt to commence an action shall be deemed
equivalent to the commencement thereof, within the meaning of this
title, when the complaint is filed, and the summons delivered, with the
intent that it shall be actually served, to the sheriff or other oiiicer of
the county, in which the defendants or one of them usually or last
resided; or if a corporation be defendant, to the sheriff or other officer
of the county in which such corporation was established by law, or
where its general business was transacted, or where it kept an office
for the transaction of business. But such an attempt shall be followed
by the first publication of the summons, or the service thereof within
sixty days.

SEC. 16. If when the cause of action shall accrue against any person, who shall be out of the state, or concealed therein, such action
may be commenced within the terms herein respectively limited, after
the return of such person into the state, or the time of his concealment; and if, after such cause of action shall have accrued, such person shall depart from and reside out of this state, or conceal himself,
the time of his absence or concealment shall not be deemed or taken
as any part of the time limited for the commencement of such action.

SEC. 17. If a person entitled to bring an action mentioned in this
title, except for a penalty or forfeiture, or against a sheriff or other

o$eer for an escape, be, at the time the cause of action accrued, either:

1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or

2. Insane; or

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under the
sentence of a court for a term less than his natural life; or

4. A married woman;

The time of such disability shall not be a part of the time limited
for the commencement of the action, but the period within which the
action shall be brought, except the actions mentioned in section 4,
shall not be extended more than five years by any such disability,
except infancy; nor shall it be extended in any case longer than one
year after the disability ceases. 2

SEC. 18. If a person entitled to bring an action, die before the
expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the

cause of action survive, an action may be commenced by his personal
representatives after the expiration of the time, and within one year
from his death. If a -person against whom an action may be brought,
die before the expiration of the time limited for the commencement
thereof, and the cause of action survives, an action may be commenced
against his personal representatives after the expiration of that time,
and within six months after the issuing of letters testamentary or of
administration.

SEC. 19. When a person shall be an alien subject or citizen of a
country at war with the United States, the time of the continuance of
the war shall not be a part of the period limited for the commencement of the action.

SEC. 20. ‘When the commencement of an action is stayed by injunction or a statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance of the
injunction or prohibition, shall not be a part of the time limited for
the commencement of the action.

SEC. 21." If an action shall be commenced within the time prescribed therefore, and a judgment therein for the plaintifff be reversed
on appeal, the plaintifff, or if he die, and the cause of action survives,
his heirs or personal representatives, may commence a new action
within one year after the reversal.

SEC. 22. No person shall avail himself of a disability unless it
existed when his right of action accrued.
SEC. 23. \Vhen two or more disabilities shall co-exist at the time

the right of action accrues, the limitation shall not attach until they
all be removed. '

SEC. 24. No acknowledgment or promise shall be sufiicient evidence of a new or continuing contract, whereby to take the case out
of the operation of this chapter, unless the same is contained in some
writing, signed by the party to be charged thereby; but this section
shall not alter the effect of any payment of principal or interest.

SEO. 25. Whenever any payment of principal or interest has been
or shall be made upon an existing contract, whether it be bill of exchange, promissory note, bond or other evidence of indebtedness, if
such payment be made after the same shall have become due, th_.e_
limitation shall commence from the time the last payment was made.

Size. 26. When the cause of action has arisen in another state,
territory or country, between non-residents of this state, and by the
laws of the state, territory or country where the cause of action arose,

an action cannot be maintained thereon by reason of the lapse of time,
no action shall he maintained thereon in this state..‘

TITLE III.
Of the parties tlzeretet.

SIC. 27. Action to be prosecuted in the name of '34. Who may prosecute for seduction of daugh

the real party in interest. tar or ward,
28. Assignment of thing in action not to 35. When unmarried female may sue for her»
prejudice defense. own seduction.

29. Executor, or trustee may one without 36. Different parties to commercial paper, or
the person benehcially interested. other obligation may be suedin one action.

30. When a married woman is a party, 37. When action not. to-abate;
actions by and against. 38. When action for wrong not to abate.

31. Infant to appear by guardian.  When third person may be substituted. in-.

32. Guardian how appointed. place of defendant.

33. Who may prosecute for injury or death 40. When court to decide controversy. or order
of a child. ' other defendantsto [be] brought in.

SEC. ‘.27. Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of‘ the real
party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section ‘.29, but this
section shall not be deemed‘ to authorizae the assignment‘ of ‘ a thing in
action not arising out of contract.

SEC. 28. In the case of‘ an assignment of athing in action, the
action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-off or
other defense existing at the time of, or before notice of the assignmeat: but this section shall not apply to a negotiable promissory note
or bill of exchange transfered in good faith and upon good considers»

tion before due.

Site. 29. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express
trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute may sue without
joining with him the person for whose bcnedt the action is prosecuted.
A person with whom, or in whose name a contract is made for the
benefit of another, is a trustee of an express trust within the meaning
of this section.

Sac. 30. \\'hen a married woman is a party, her husband shall be
joined with her, except that,

1. When the action concerns her separate property she may sue
alone.

2. “'hen the action is between herself and her husband, she
may sue or be sued alone; and in no case need she prosecute or
defend by a guardian or next friend.

SEC. 31. \\'l1en an infant is a party, he shall appear by guardian,
who may be appointed by the court in which the action is brought,
or by ajudge thereof, or a county judge.

SEC. 32. The guardian shall be appointed as follows:

1. \Vheu the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of the
infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years; or if under that age, upon
the application ofa relation or friend of the infant.

:2. \Vhen the infant is defendant, upon an application of the
infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within fifteen
«lays after the service of the summons; if he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply. then upon the application of any other
party to the action, or of a. relation or friend of the infant.

SEC. 33. A father, pr in case of the death or desertion of his family,
the mother, may maintain an action as plaintifff for the injury or death
ofa child, and a guardian for the injury or death of his ward.

Sec. 34. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his family,
the mother may maintain an action as plaintifff, for the seduction of a
daughter, and the guardian Efor the seduction of a ward, though the
daughter or ward be not living with, or in the service of the plaintifff
at the time of the seduction or afterwards, and there be no loss of
service.

SEC. 35. An unmarried female over twenty-one years of age may

10 scrmllsruvncouatserasueaa.

msiutainanaetiouasplsistifforhbr-ovnseduetion,audreecver
thereinsuchdamsgesasmaybeassessedinher favor; but the prosecution of an action to judgment by the father, mother, or guardian,
as prescribed in section 84,shallbe a bar toanaction bysuch unmarried female.

See. 86. Persons severally liable upon the same ebliption or
insaumsut, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory
notesmay,alloranyofthem,beineludediuthe same action, at the
option of the plaintifff.

See. 87. No actionshall abate by thedeath, marrisgeer otherdisability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the
causeofactionsurviveoreoutinne. In case ofthe death, marriage,
or other disability of a party, the court may, at any time within one
year thereaner, on motion, allow the action to be continued by or

against his personal nepresentativesor successor in interest.

Size. 88. An action for a wrong, shall not abate by the death of
any party, after a verdict has been given therein, but the action shall
proceed thereafter in the same manner as in cases where the cause of
action survives.

Sec. 39. In any action for the recovery of specihc personal property, if a third person demand of the defendant the same property, the
court in its discretion, on motion of the defendant, and notice to such
person and the adverse party, may, before answer, make an order discharging the defendant from liability to either party, and substitute
such person in his place as defendant. Such order shall not be made
but on the condition that the defendant deliver the property or its
value to such person as the court may direct, not unless it appears
from the affidavit of the defendant, filed with the clerk by the day he
is otherwise required to answer, that such person_makes such demand
without collusion with the defendant. The affidavit of such third

person as to whether he makes such demand of the defendant may be
read on the hearing of the motion.

Sec. 40. The court may determine any controversy between parties
before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of

others, or by saving their rights; but when a complete determination
of the controversy, cannot be had without the presence of other parties,

the court shall cause them to be brought in.

TITLE IV.
Of the place of trial.

Ste. 41. What actions to be tried where the 45. -Same subject.

subject, or some part is situated. 46. Transcript and papers to be sent to clerk
42. What actions to be tried where the ' of court to which cause is transferred.
cauce,,or some part, arose. , 47. Who to pay costs, same not to be taxed.
43. What actions to be tried where the 48. \Vbcn. if transcript not transmitted, court
defendant resides, or may be found. may vacate order. ’

44. When court may change place of trial. 49. When change of venue deemed complete.

SEC. 41. Actions for the following causes shall be commenced and
tried in the county in which the subject of the action, or some part
thereof is situated: ‘ A 1

1. For the recovery of real property, or an estate or interest
therein, or for injuries to real property;

2. For the recovery of any personal property distrained for any
cause.

SEC. 42. Actions for the following causes shall be commenced and
tried in the county Where the cause, or some part thereof, arose:

1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute;
except that when it is imposed for an offense committed on a lake,
river, or other stream of water, situated in two or more counties, the
action may be commenced and tried in any county bordering on such
lake, river, or stream, and opposite to the place where the offense was
committed:

2. Against a public officer or person specially appointed to execute his duties for an act done ‘by him in virtue of his office; or against
a person who, by his command, or in his aid, shall do anything touching the duties of such oiiicer.

SEO. 43. In all other cases, the action shall be commenced and
tried in the county in which the defendants or either of them reside,

or may be found, at the commencement of the action; or if none of ‘

the parties reside in this state, the same may be tried in any county
which the plaintifff may designate in his complaint.

SEC. 44. The court may change the place of trial, on the motion
of either party to the action, when it appears from the aiiidavit of
such party; either,

1. That the action has not been commenced in the proper
county; or,
2. That the judge is a party to, clirectlyinterested in the event

of the action, or connected by consanguinity or amnity within the
third degree, with the adverse party, or those for whom he prosecutes
or defends; or,

3. That the judge or the inhabitants of the county are so prejudiced against the party making the motion, that he cannot expect
an impartial trial before said judge, or in said county as the case
may be; or,

1 4. That the convenience of witnesses and the parties would be
promoted by such change; and,

5. That the motion is not made for the purpose of delay.

SEO. 45. The motion for a change of the place of trial, cannot be
made, or allowed in any action, until after the cause is at issue on a
question of fact only. If the motion be allowed, the change shall be
made to the county where the action ought to have been commenced,
if it be for the cause mentioned in subdivision one of section 44, and
in other cases to the most convenient county where the cause alleged
does not exist. Neither party shall be entitled to more than one
change of the place of trial, except for causes not in existence when
the first change was allowed.

Size. 46. When the place of trial has been changed the clerk shall
forthwith transmit to the clerk of the proper court, a transcript of the
proceedings in such cause with all the original papers filed therein,
having first made out and filed in his own oiiice authenticated copies

of all such original papers.

SEC. 47. The costs of such change of venue shall be paid by the
applicant therefore, and not taxed as a part of the costs of the case, and
the clerk may require payment of such costs before the transcript and
',papers shall be transmitted as aforesaid.

SEO. 48. If such transcript and papers, be not transmitted to the

-clerk of the proper court within the time prescribed in the order

allowing the change, and the delay be caused by the act or omission

of the party procuring the change; the adverse party, on motion to
the court or judge thereof, may have the order vacated, and thereafter

no other change of the place of trial shall be allowed to such party.

SEO. 49. Upon the filing of the transcript and papers with the
clerk of the court to which the cause is transferred, the change of
venue shall be deemed complete, and thereafter ‘the action shall prooceed as though it had been commenced in that court.

TITLE V.
0f the manner of their commencement.

kc. '50. How actions commenced. 56. Publication how made, personal service out
51. Summons, requisites of, when defend- of the State equivalent thereto.
ant to appear and answer. 57. When defendant may be allowed to defend
52. Summons to contain notice of what after judgment.
plaintil’ demands. 58. When the summons is returned not found.
53. Summons, by whom served and when how plain?-33' may proceedand where returned. 59. When summons not served on all the defen-54. Summons, how served, and upon dants.
whom. 60. Proof of service of summons.
55. When order for publication of snm- 61. When court acquires jurisdiction.
mons may be made.

SEC. 50. Actions at law shall be commenced by filing a complaint‘
with the clerk of the court, and the provisions of sections 14 and 15,
shall only apply to this subject for the purpose of determining whether
an action has been commenced within the time limited by this code.
At any time after the action is commenced the plaintifff may cause a
summons to be served on the defendant.

Sec. 51. The summons shall contain the name of the court in

which the complaint is filed, the names of the parties to the ‘action,
and the title thereof. It shall be subscribed by the plaintifff or his

attorney, and directed to the defendant, and shall require him to:
appear and answer the complaint, or judgment for want thereof will‘.

be_ taken against him.

1. If the defendant be served within the county in which theaction is commenced, ten days before the term of court next following.‘

such service, or if in any other county in the state twenty days before

such term, he shall appear and answer the complaint, on the first day:

thereof.

2. If he be served less-than ten days before the term of court.
next following such service, within the county in which the action is.

commenced, or less than twenty days in any other county, he shall;
appear and answer the complaint on the first day of the second term.
next following such service.

SEC. 52. There shall also be inserted in the summons a notice, in.
substance as follows: '
1. In any action for the recovery of money or damages only, that."
the plaintifff will take judgment for a sum specified therein, if thedefendant fail to answer the complaint.

2. In other actions, that if the defendant "fail to answer the com:
plaint, the plaintifff will apply to the court for the relief demanded
therein. '

SEC. 53. The summons shall ‘be served by the sheriff of the county
where the defendant is found, or by his deputy, or bya person specially appointed by him, or by the court or judge thereof, in which the
action is commenced. The summons shall be returned to the clerk
with whom the complaint is filed, by the first day of the next term
after its delivery to the oiiicer or other-- person for service, with proof
of such service, or that the defendant cannot be found. Vlfhen served
out of the county in which the action is commenced, the summons
may be returned by mail. The sherif, or other person to whom the
summons is delivered, shall endorse thereon the date of such delivery.
_ SEC. 54. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy
thereof, together with a copy of the complaint prepared and certified
by the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, as follows:

1. If the action be against a private corporation, to the president
or ‘other head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, or managing agent
thereof; ‘

2. If against any county, incorporated town, school district, or
other public corporation in this state, to the clerk of such county,
incorporated town, school district, or other public corporation; A

3. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such
minor personally, and also to his father, mother or guardian; or if
there be none within this state, then to any person having the care
or control of such minor, or with whom he resides, or in whose service
he is employed;

-1. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind,
or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and for whom a guardian
has been appointed, to such guardian and to the defendant personally.

5. ' In all other cases to the defendant personally, or if he be not
found, to some white person of the family, above the age of fourteen
years, at the. dwelling house or uiual place of abode of the defendant.

SEC. 55. When service of the summons cannot be made as pre- p

scribed in the last preceding section, and the defendant after due
diligence cannot be foundwithin the state, and when that fact appears
by affidavit to the satisfaction of -the court or judge thereof, and it in
like manner appears that a cause of action exists against the defendant, or that he is a proper party’ to an action relating to real property

in this state, such court or judge may grant an order that the service
be made by publication of a summons in either of the following cases:

1. When the defendant is a foreign corporation, and has property
withinthe State, or the cause of actionarose therein;

2. When the defendant being ‘a resident of this state, has departed therefrom with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the
service of a summons, or shall keep himself concealed therein with
the like intent ;. .

_3. When the defendant is not a resident of the state but has
property therein, and the ‘court has jurisdiction of the subject of the
action.

Size. 56 The order shall direct the publication to be made in a
newspaper published in -the county where the action is commenced,
and if there be no newspaper published in the county, then in a newspaper to be designated as most likely to give notice to the person to
be served, and for such length of time as may be deemed reasonable,
not less than once a week for six weeks. In case of publication, the
court or judge shall also direct a copy of the summons and complaint
to be forthwith deposited in the post office, directed to the defendant
at his place of residence, unless it shall appear that such residence is
neither known to the party making the application, nor can with
reasonable diligence be ascertained by him. When publication is
ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons and complaint out
of the state, shall be equivalent to publication. and deposit in the post
oilice. In either case, the defendant shall appear and answer by the
that day of the term following the expiration of the time prescribed in
the order for publication, and if he does not, judgment may be taken
against him for want thereof. In case of personal service out of the
state, the summons shall specify the time prescribed in the order for
publication.

SEO. 57. The defendant against‘ whom publication is ordered, or
his personal representatives, on application and suliicient cause shown,
at any time before judgment, shall be allowed to defend the action;
and, the defendant against whom publication is ordered, or his representatives may in like manner,- upon good cause shown and upon such
terms as may be proper, be allowed to defend after judgment, and
within one year after the entry of such judgment on such terms as
may be just, and if the defense be successful, and the judgment or any
part thereof have been collected or otherwise enforced, such restitution

may thereupon be compelled as the court shall direct. But the title

to property sold upon execution issued on such judgment, to a purchaser in good faith, shall not be thereby affected.

Size. 58. Whenever it shall appear by the return of the sheriff, his
deputy, or the person appointed to serve a summons, that the defendant is not found, the plaintifff may deliver another summons to be
served, and so on until service be had; or the plaintifff may proceed
by publication as in this title provided, at his election.‘

SEC. 59. When the action is against two or more defendants, and
the summons is served on one or more, but not all of them, the plaintifff
may proceed as follows : i

1. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted upon a
contract, he may proceed against the defendants served, unless the
court otherwise direct; and if he recover judgment, it may be entered
against all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it
may be enforced against the joint property of all and the separate
property of the defendant served, and if they are subject to arrest
against the persons of the defendants served; or

2. If the action be against the defendants severally liable, he may
proceed against the defendants served, in the same manner as if ‘they
were the only defendants.

3. If all the defendants have been served, judgment may be
taken against any or either of them severally, when the plaintifff would
be entitled to judgment against such defendant, or defendants, if the
action had been against them, or any of them alone.

SEC. 60. ‘Proof of the service of the summons, or of the deposit
thereof in the post-office, shall be as follows:
1. If the service, or deposit in the post office, be by the sheritl‘ or
his deputy, the certificate of such sheriff or deputy; or,
2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or
3. In case of publication, the aiiidavit of the printer or his foreman or his principal clerk, showing the same; or,
4. The written admission of the defendant. In case of service,
otherwise than by publication, the certificate, affidavit or admission
must state the time and place of service; and in case of deposit in the

post oiiice, the time and place thereof.

SEO. 61. From the time of the service of the summons, or the
allowance of a provisional remedy, the court shall be deemed to have

wqui;-ed jurisdiction, and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings. A voluntary appearance of the defendant shall be equivalent to personal service ofthe summons upon him. '

TITLE-VI.
Oftlieplcadings.
§c.t|2. Ifh7 hwwue& I O. l'@'enlhe-pltdlhelmud

8:0. 62. All the forms of pleading heretofore existing in actions at
law, are abolished; and hereafter the forms of pleading in courts of
record, and the rules by which the sumciency of the pleadings is to be
determined, shall be those prescribed by this code. ‘ ‘ _

Sec. 68. Theonlypleadingson the partof the plaintiffehall be:

1. The complaint: 2. The demurrer; or

8. The reply. r

And on part of the defendant:
1. The demurrer; or
2. The answer.

TITLE vn.
Ofthe coutplaint.

Bee.“ i‘lrstpleading,tebeeomplslnt. I I5. Whateonplahttoecntain.

Sac. 64. The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff, shall be the
complaint.
Sec. 65. The complaint shall contain:
1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court, and

the nanres of the parties to the action, plaintiff and defendant.
‘ 2 A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting the

cause of action, without unnecessary repetition.
3. A demand of the relief which the plaintiff claims. If the
recovery of money, or damages he demanded, the amount thereof

shall be stated.

TITLE VIII.
Of the demurrer.

83¢. G. Wheathe defeathntnay dean:-,and G. Howtoproeeedifeonplaintheunended.

for what. GIL Objection when taken by answer.
67. Deuarrer neat specify ground of ob- 70. Objection when deemed waived.
jeetlon to complaint.

Sac. 66. The defendant may demur to the complaint within the
time required by law to appear and answer, when it appears upon the
face thereof, either:

1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or the subject of the action; or

2. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue ; or

8. That there is another action pending between the same parties
for the same cause; or

4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant; or

5. That several causes of action have been improperly united; or

6. That the complaint does not state facts sutlieient to constitute
a cause of action.

7. That the action has not been commenced within the time
limited by this code.

SEC. 67. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds of
objection to the complaint, unless it does so it may be disregarded. It

may be taken to the whole complaint, or to any of the alleged causes
of action stated therein.

SEC.‘ 68. If the complaint be amended, a copy thereof shall be
served on the defendant or his attorney, and the defendant shall
answer the same within such time as may be prescribed by the court,
and if he omit to do so, the plaintifff may proceed to obtain judgment
as in other cases of failure to answer. .

SEC. 69. V\'hen any of the matters enumerated in section 66 do not
appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be taken by
answer.

SEC. 70. If no objection be taken, either by demurrer or answer,
the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, excepting
only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and the objection
that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action.

TITLE IX.

Of the answer.

Sec. 71. What the answer shall contain. 7 3. Defendant may demur to one or more of sev7'2. Nature of counterclaim. and how eral causes of action, and answer the rest.
stated. 74. Sham and irrelevant answer stricken out

on motion.

SEC. 71. The answer of the defendant shall contain:
1. A specific denial of each material allegation of the complaint
controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or information

thereof sullicient to form a belief.
2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense or
counterclaim, in ordinary and concise language without repetition.

SEC. 72. The counterclaim mentioned in section 71, must be one
existing in favor of a defendant, and against a plaintifff, between whom
a several judgment might be had in the action, and arising out of one
of the following causes of action: A

1. A cause of action arising out of the contract, or transaction
set forth in the complaint, as the foundation of the plaintifff's claim ;

2. ,In an action arising on contract, any ether cause of action
arising also on contract, and existing at the commencement of the
action;

The defendant may set forth by answer, as many defenses and
counterclaims as he may have. They shall each be separately stated,
and refer to the causes of action which they are intended to answer, in
such manner that they may be intelligibly distinguished.

SEC. 73. The defendant may demur to one or more of several
causes of actions stated in the complaint, and answer the residue.

Sec. 74. Sham, frivolous and irrelevant answers and defenses may
be stricken out on motion, and upon such terms as the court may in
its discretion impose.

TITLE X.
Of the rqvlg/.

Sec. 75. Reply, when made, and whattocontain. 77. When defendant may move for judgment

76. When plaintifff may domur to new on answer.
mane; in answer, 78. \Vhen defendant may demnr to reply.

SEC. 75. - When the answer contains new matter, constituting a

defense or counterclaim, the plaintifff may reply to such new matter,
denying specifically each allegation controverted by him, or any
knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a belief; and he
may allege in ordinary and concise language, without repetition, any
new matter not inconsistent with the complaint, constituting a defense
to such new matter in the answer.

SEC. 76. The plaintifff may demur to an answer containing new
matter, when it appears upon the face thereof, that such new matter
does not constitute a defense or counterclaim, or he may for like
cause demur to one or more of such defenses or counterclaims, and
reply to the residue.

SEC. 77. If the answer contain a statement of new matter constituting a defense or counterclaim, and the plaintifff fail to reply or
demur thereto within the time prescribed bylaw, the defendant may
move the court for such judgment as he is entitled to on the pleadings,
and if the ease require it, he may have a jury called to assess the
damages.

SEC. 78. The defendant may demur to any new matter contained
in the reply, when it appears upon the face thereof, that such new
matter is not a sufiicient reply to the facts stated in the answer.
Sham, frivolous and irrelevant replys, may be stricken out, in like
manner, and on the same terms, as like answers and defenses.

T

TITLE XI.
General rules of pleading.
SEC. 79. Verification of pleadings. ~ 88. Libel or slander, how pleaded.

80. When verification may be omitted. 89. VVhat may be pleaded in answer in such
81. \Vhen pleadings filed, or motion to cases. _

strike out. 90. Answer in action to recover the posses82. Manner of pleading an account. sion of property destrained.
83. How pleadings construed. 91. What causes of action may be united in
84. Irrelevant and redundant matter may same complaint.

be stricken out. 92. Material allegation not denied,when deemed
85. Judgments how pleaded. true.
86. Conditions precedent, how pleaded. 93. What is a material allegation.

87. Private statute, how pleaded.

.SEC. 79. Every pleading shall be subscribed by the party or his
attorney, and, except a demurrer, shall also be verified by the party,
his agent or attorney, to the effect that he believes it to be true. The
verification must be made by the affidavit of the party, or, if there be

several parties united in interest and pleading together, by one at least
of such parties, if such party be within the county and capable of
making the affidavit ; otherwise the affidavit may be made by the
agent or attorney of the party. The affidavit may also be made by the
agent or attorney, if _ the action or defense be founded on a written
instrument for the payment of money only, and such instrument be
in the possession of the agent or attorney, or if all the material allegations of the pleading be within the personal knowledge of the agent
or attorney. \Vhen the affidavit is made by the agent or attorney, it
must set forth the reason of his making it. \Vhen a corporation is a
party, the verification may be made by any officer thereof, upon whom
service of a summons might be made, and when the state or any oilicer
thereof in its behalf is a party, the verification maybe made by any
person to whom all the material allegations of the pleading are known.

SEC. 80. \Vhen in the judgment of the‘ court, an answer to an
allegation in any pleading, might subject the party answering to a
prosecution for felony, the verification of the answer to such allegation
may be omitted.

SEC. 81. The answer or demurrer to the complaint, shall be filed
with the clerk by the time required to answer, and thereafter each
pleading shall be filed in like manner, within one day from the filing
of the pleading to which it is a reply or demurrer. A motion to strike
out a pleading for want of verification or subscription, or because
several causes of action, or defense therein are not pleaded separately,
or for other cause, or a sham,‘ frivolous or irrelevant pleading, or
irrelevant or redundant matter therein, shall be made within the time

prescribed for answering such pleading.

SEC. 82. A party may set forth in a pleading the items of an
account therein alleged, or file a copy thereof with the pleading,
verified by his own oath, or that of his agent or attorney, if within the
personal knowledge of such agent or attorney, to the effect that he
believes it to be true. If he do neither, he shall deliver to the adverse
party, within five days after a demand thereof in writing, a copy of the
account, verified as in this section provided, or be precluded from
giving evidence thereof. The court or judge thereof may order a
further account when the one filed or delivered is defective.

SEC. 83. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose, of
determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with
a view of substantial justice between the parties.

SEC. 84. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading, it may be stricken out on motion of the adverse party; and when
the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or uncertain that the
precise nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the court may
require the pleading to be made definite and certain by amendment.

SEC. 85. In pleading a judgment or other determination of a court
or oiiicer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the
facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may
be stated to have been duly given or made. If such allegation be
controvcrted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish on the

trial the facts conferring jurisdiction.

SEC. 86. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a
contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such
performance, but it may be stated generally that the party duly performed all the conditions on his part; and if such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish on the trial
the facts showing such performance.

SEC. 87. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom,
it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title and the day of
its passage, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof.

SEC. 88. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary
to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts, for the purpose of showing
the application to the plaintifff of the defamatory matter out of which
the cause of action arose; but it shall be sufiicient to state generally
that the same was published or spoken concerning the plaintifff; and
if such allegation be eontroverted, the plaintifff shall be bound to
establish on trial that it was so published or spoken.

SEC. 89. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged
as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances, to reduce the amount
of damages; and Whether he prove the justincation or not, he may
give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.

Sec. 90. In an action to recover the possession of property, distrained doing damage, an answer that the defendant or person by
whose command he acted, was lawfully possessed of the real property
upon which the distress was made, and that the property distrained
was at the time doing damage thereon, shall be good, without setting

forth the title to such real property.

SEC. 91. The plaintifff may unite several causes of action in the

same complaint when they all arise out of
1. Contract, express or implied; or,
2. Injuries, with or without force, to the person ; or,
3. Injuries, with or without force, to property; or,
4. Injuries to character; or,
5. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages for
the withholding thereof; or,
6. Claims to recover personal property, with or without damage
for the withholding thereof; or,
7. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by operation of law.
But the cause of action so united, must all belong to one only of
these classes, and must affect all the parties to the action, and not
require different places of trial, and must be separately stated.

SEC. 92. Every material allegation of the complaint, not speeificall y
controverted by the answer, and every material allegation of new
matter in the answer, not specilieally controverted by the reply, shall,
for the purpose of the action, be taken as true; but the allegation of
new matter in a reply, is to be deemed controverted by the adverse
party as upon a direct denial or avoidance, as the case may require.

SEC. 93. A material allegation in a pleading is one essential to the
claim or defense, and which could not be stricken from the pleading
without leaving it insufficient.

TITLE XII.

Of mistakes in pleading/3, and amendments.

Ste. 94. \Vhen variance deemed material. 101. \Vben defendant may be sued by tic-ti:ious
95. When variance not material. name.
96. What deemed a failure of proof. 102. Amended pleadings before trial, to be no N
97. \Vhat pleading may be amended of pleadings.
course. 103. Pleading not verified, or containing sever93. Amendments and pleading over after al causes of action or defense, not 80:] demurrer. rately stated, may be stricken out.

99. Amendments allowed by court before 104. No error to be regarded, unless it affect
trial or submission. substantial rights.

100. Court may enlarge time to plead, or l 105. Supplemental pleadings.
relieve party from judgment. l

SEC. 94 No variance between the allegation in a pleading and the

proof shall be deemed material, unless it have actually misled the
adverse party to his prejudice, in maintaining his action or defense
upon the merits. Whenever it shall be alleged that a. party has been
so misled, that fact shall be proved to the satisfaction of the court, and
in what respect he has been misled: and thereupon the court may
order the pleading to be amended upon such terms as shall be just.
SEC. 95. \Vhen the variance is not material, as provided in the last
section, the court may direct the fact to be found according to the
evidence, or may order an immediate amendment, without costs.

SEC. 96. VVhen, however, the allegation of the cause of action or
defense to which the proof is directed is unproved, not in some particular or particulars only, but in its entire scope and meaning, it shall
not be deemed a case of variance within the two last sections, but a
failure of proof.

SEC. 97. Any pleading may be once amended by the party of
course, without costs and without prejudice to the proceedings already
had, at any time before the period for answering it shall expire; in
such case, a copy of the amended pleading shall be served on the
adverse party before the expiration of said period.

SEC. 98. After the decision upon a demurrer, if it. be overruled,
and it appears that such demurrer was interposed in good faith, the
court may in its discretion allow the party to plead over upon such
terms as may be proper. If the demurrer be sustained, the court. may
in its discretion, allow the party to amend the pleading demurred to,
upon such terms as may be proper.

SEC. 99. The court may at any time before trial, in furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, allow any pleading or
proceeding to be amended, by adding the name of a party, or other
allegation material to the cause, and in like manner and for like
reasons, it may at any time before the cause is submitted, allow such
pleading or proceeding to be amended, by striking out the name of
any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a 1nistake in any other respect, or when the amendment does not substantially change the cause of action or defense, by conforming the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved.

SEC. 100. The court mav likewise i11 its discretion, and 11 ion such
1 . 1

terms as may be just, allow an answer or reply to be made, or other

act to be done after the time limited by this code, or by an order

enlarge such time; and may also, in its discretion, and upon such
termsas may be just, at anytime within one year after notice thereof,
relieve a party from a judgment, order, or other proceeding taken
against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.

SEC. 101. When the plaintifff‘ shall be ignorant of the name of a
defendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name; and when his true name shall be discovered,
the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.

SEC. 102. When any pleading or proceeding is amended before
trial, mere clerical errors excepted, it shall be done by filing a new
pleading, to be called the amended complaint or otherwise, as the
case may be. Such amended pleading shall be complete in itself,
without reference to the original or any preceding amended one.

SEC. 103. Any pleading not duly verified and subscribed may, on
motion of the adverse party, be stricken out of the case. VVhen any
pleading contains more than one cause of action or defense, if the
same be not pleaded separately, such pleading may, on motion of the
adverse party be stricken out of the case. VVhen ,a motion to strike
out is allowed, the court may upon sucl1 terms as may be proper,
allow the party to file an amended pleading, or, if the motion be
disallowed, and it appear to have been made in good faith, the court
may upon like terms allow the party to plead over.

SEC. 104. The court shall, in every stage of an action, disregard
any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which shall not
affect the substantial rights of the adverse party.

SEC. 105. The plaintifff and defendant respectively, may be allowed
on motion, to make a supplemental complaint, answer, or reply,
alleging facts material to the case, occurring after the former complaint,
answer, or reply.

TITLE XIII.
Of arrest and bail.

Ste. 106. When defendant may be arrested. 109. Bail, how given.
107. Proceeding to obtain arrest. ll0. Surrender of defendant.
108. Defendant may be discharged on bail 111. Same subject.
or dcpositc. 112. Bail, how proceeded against.

SEC, 113. Bail, how exonerated. 122. Depoaite, how applied, or disposed of‘.
114, How and when, sheriff to deliver to 1'23. When sheriff‘ liable as bail, and how displaintiffl‘ copy of undertaking of the charged “Om wcll liability.
bail. When plaintifff‘ must except. 124. Judgment against sheriff‘ on bail.
115. Notice of jnsliication of bail. 125. When bail liable to sheriff.
116. Qualifications of bail. 1536. Plaintiff liable in the first instance for the
117. J notification of baiL - maintenance of defendant in arrest.
118. Allowance of bail, 1'27. \Vhen sheriff may discharge defendant, for
ll.9. Deposite of money in lieu of hail. non payment of maintenance.
]20, Payment, by gherilf of depogiw (,0 128. Motion to vacate order allowing writ Of
clerk. arrest.
121. Bail may be given, and dcposite re- 199- Pl‘08G<'|l|»iDg thereonfunded.

SEC. 106. No person shall be arrested in an action at law, except as
provided in this section. The defendant may be arrested in the
following cases :

1. In an action for the recovery of money or damages on a cause
of action arising out of eont.ract, when the defendant is not a resident
of the state, or is about to remove therefrom, or when the action is for
an injury to person or character, or for injuring or wrongfully taking,
detaining, or converting property.

2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or on a promise to marry,
or for money received, or property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or converted to his own use, by a public officer, or by an attorney, or by an officer or agent of a corporation in the course of his
employment as such, or by any factor, agent, broker, or other person
in a fiduciary capacity, or for any misconduct or neglect in office, or in
a professional employment.

3. In an action to recover the possession of personal property
unjustly detained, when the property or any part thereof has been concealed, removed, or disposed of, so that it cannot be found or taken by
the sheriff, and with intent that it should not be so found or taken, or
with the intent to deprive the plaintifff of the benefit thereof.

4. VVhen the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting
the debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought,
or in concealing or disposing of the property, for the taking, detention,
or conversion of which the action is brought.

5. ‘When the defendant has removed or disposed of his property,

‘ or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors.

But no female shall be arrested in any action, except for an injury to

person, character or property.

SEC. 107. The mode of proceeding to obtain the arrest of the

defendant for any of the causes specified in section 106, shall be as
provided in this section.

1. At any time after the commencement of an action at law, and
before judgment, an order, allowing a Writ of arrest to issue therein,
may be made by any circuit court, county court, or judge thereof of
the state, when it shall appear to such court or judge, by the affidavit
of the plaintifff or other person, that a sufficient cause of action exists,
and that the case is one of those mentioned in section 106.

2. The affidavit may be either positive, or upon informationeand
belief, but if the latter, it shall state the nature and sources of the
information upon which the belief is founded. The order shall prescribe the amount of the bail, the amount of the undertaking of the
plaintifff, and whether the latter shall be given with or without sureties.
The amount of the undertaking shall not be less than one hundred
dollars, and shall be equal to the amount for Which the plaintifff
demands judgment.

_ 3. Upon filing the order and affidavit with the clerk of the. court
where the action is pending, the plaintifff shall be entitled to have the
writ issue, as soon thereafter as he shall file with the clerk his undertaking in conformity with the provisions of the order, and to the effect,
that the plaintifff will pay all costs that may be adjudged to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, if
the same be wrongful or without sufticient cause, not exceeding the
sum specified in the undertaking.

4. If the undestaking be executed without sureties, the plaintifff
shall file therewith, his affidavit that he is a resident and householder
or freeholder within the state, and worth double the sum specified in
the undertaking, over all his debts and liabilities. If it be executed
with sureties, the plaintifff shall file therewith, the affidavits of such
sureties that they are residents within the state; from which affidavits
it must appear that such sureties taken together, are worth double the
amount of the sum specified in the undertaking, over all debts and
liabilities, and property exempt from execution. No person not qualified to become bail upon an arrest, is qualified to become surety in an
undertaking for an arrest.

5. The writ of arrest shall be issued by the clerk, and shall
require the sheriff of any county where the defendant may be found,
forthwith to arrest him and hold him to bail in the amount specified in
the order, and that in default thereof, he keep him in custody until discharged by law, and to return the writ to the clerk from whom it
issued, with his doings endorsed thereon, when required by the plaintifff at any time before the defendant may be arrested, or afterwards,
whenever the defendant shall have been discharged from the arrest on

bail or otherwise.

6. The plaintifff shall deliver or cause to be delivered to the
sheriff with the writ, a copy of the affidavit upon which the order was
made, subscribed by himself or attorney. The sheriff upon the delivcry of the writ shall endorse thereon the date of the receipt, and upon
the arrest of the defendant, shall deliver to him a copy of the writ, and
such copy of the aiiidavit. The sheriff shall execute the writ, by
arresting the defendant and keeping him in custody, until discharged
by law.

SEC. 108. The defendant at any time before execution, shall be
discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail, or upon depositing
the amount mentioned in the Writ of arrest as provided in this title.

SEC. 109. The defendant may give bail, by causing a written undertaking to be executed in favor of the plaintifff by two or more sufiieient
sureties, stating their places of residence, to the effect that the defendant shall at all times render himself amenable to the process of the
court, during the pendency of the action, and to such as may be issued
to enforce the judgment therein, or if he be arrested for the cause
mentioned in the third subdivision of section 106, an undertaking to
the same effect as that provided by section 135.

SEC. 110. At any time before a failure to comply with the undertaking the bail may surrender the defendant in their exoneration, or
he may surrender himself to the sheriff of the county where he was
arrested, in the following manner:

1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail shall be delivered to the sheriff, who shall detain the defendant in his custody
thereon as upon a writ of arrest, and shall by a certificate in writing
acknowledge the surrender.

2. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking and sheriff"s
certificate, the judge of the court may upon a notice to the plaintifff of
eight days, with a copy of the certificate, order that the bail be exonerated, and on filing the order and the papers used on said application,
with the clerk of the court where the action is pending, they shall be
exonerated accordingly. But this section shall not apply to an arrest
for cause mentioned in the third subdivision of section 106, so as to discharge the bail from an undertaking given to the effect provided by
section 135.

SEC. 111. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail
at any time and place, before they are finally charged, may themselves
arrest him, or by a written authority, indorsed on a certified copy of
the undertaking, may empower the sheriff or any other person of
suitable age and discretion to do so.

SEC. 112. In case of the failure to comply with the undertaking,
the bail may he proceeded against by action only.

SEC. 113. The bail may be exonerated either by the death of the
defendant, or his imprisonment in the penitentiary, or by his legal discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the process,
or by his surrender to the sheriff of the county where he was arrested,
in execution thereof, within twenty days after the commencement of
the action against the bail, or Within such further time as may be

granted by the court.

SEC. 114. \Vithin five days from the execution of the undertaking
of the hail, the sheriff shall deliver to the plaintifff or his attorney, if
either of them reside within the county Where the arrest was made, or
otherwise to such person within said county as the plaintifff may direct,
a certified copy of the undertaking, with the date of the arrest endorsed
thereon. In any other case the sheriff may mail such copy, within the
same time to the plaintifff or his attorney, within the State, or to either
of them as the plaintifff may direct. The plaintifff Within ten days
from the delivery of such copy, or fifteen days from the mailing of the
same, if sent by mail, may serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does
not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to have accepted it, and the
sheriff shall be exonerated from liability. If no notice be served
within ten days, the original undertaking shall be filed with the clerk
of the court where the action is pending.

SEC. 115. On the receipt of such notice, the sheriff’ or defendant
may, Within ten days thereafter, give to the plaintifff or his attorney
notice of the justification of the same or other bail, specifying the
places of residence and occupation of the latter, before a judge of the
circuit court, or county court, or clerk of the court where the action is
pending, at a specified time and place; the time to be not less than
five, nor more than ten days thereafter. In case neither the plaintifff
or his attorney reside within the county where the arrest is made, the

notice may be served upon the person and in the manner provided for
serving the copy of the undertaking in section 114. In case other bail
be given there shall be a new undertaking in the form and to the effect
prescribed in section 109.

SEC. 116. The qualifications of bail shall be as follows:

1. Each of them shall be a resident and householder or freeholder within the state; but no counsellor or attorney at law, sheriff,
clerk of any court, or other officer of any court, shall be permitted to
become bail in any action.

2. Each of them shall be worth the amount specilied in the writ
of arrest, or the amount to which the same may be reduced as provided
in this title over and above all debts and liabilities, and exclusive of
property exempt from execution; but the judge or clerk on justification may allow more than two sureties to justify severally in amounts
less than that expressed in the writ, if the whole justification be equivalent to that of two sufiicient bail.

SEC. 117. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail shall
attend before the judge or clerk, at the time and place mentioned in the
notice, and may be examined on oath, on the part of the plaintifff,
touching his sufficiency, in such manner as the judge or clerk in his
discretion may think proper. The examination shall be reduced to
writing and subscribed by the bail, if required by the plaintifff.

SEC. 118. If the judge or clerk find the bail sufficient, he shall
annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse his allowance
thereon, and cause them to be filed with the clerk of the court in
which the action is pending; and the sheriff shall thereupon be
exonerated from liability. '

SEC. 119. The defendant may at the time of his arrest, instead of
giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned in the writ.
Thereupon the sheriff shall give the defendant a certificate of the
deposit made, and the defendant shall be discharged out of custody.

SEC. 120. The sheriff shall within four days after the deposit pay
the same into court, and take from the clerk receiving the same two
certificates of such payment, the one of which he shall deliver to the
plaintifff or his attorney, and the other to the defendant. For any
default in making such payment, the same proceedings may be had on
the official bond of the sheriff to collect the sum deposited, as in other
cases of delinquency.

SEC. 121. If money be deposited, as provided in the last two
sections, bail may be given and justified upon notice, as prescribed in
section 109, at any time before judgment, and on the tiling of the
undertaking and justincation with the clerk, the money deposited shall
be refunded by such clerk to the defendant.

SEC. 122. When money shall have been so deposited, if it remain
on deposite at the time of an order or judgment for the payment of
money to the plaintifff, the clerk shall, under the direction of the court,
apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and after satisfying the judgment shall refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant. If the
judgment be in favor of the defendant, the clerk shall refund to him
the whole sum deposited and ‘remaining unapplied.

SEO. 123. If, after being arrested the defendant escape, or be

rescued, or bail be not given, or justified, or a deposite be not made
instead thereof, the sheriff himself shall be liable as bail ; but he may

discharge himself from such liability, by the giving and justification
of bail, as provided in sections, 115, 116, 117 and 118, at any time
before process against the person of the defendant, to enforce an order

or judgment in the action.

SEC. 124. If a judgment be recovered against the sheriff upon his
liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfied, in
whole or in part, the same proceedings may be had on his oihcial bond
for the recovery of the whole or any deficiency, as in other cases of
delinquency.

SEC. 125. The bail taken upon the arrest, shall, unless they justify,

or other bail be given or justified, be liable to the sheriff by action for
any damages which he may sustain by reason of such omission.

SEC. 126. The fees which shall be allowed to the sheriff for the

food and maintenance of any defendant arrested under the provisions‘

of this act, shall be as provided by law and the plaintifff shall be liable
in the first instance for such fees, and if required by the sheriff, shall
pay the same weekly in advance; and such fees so paid shall be added
to the disbursements taxed or accruing in the case, and be collected as
other disbursements.

SEC. 127. If the plaintifff shall neglect to pay such fees for three
days after a demand of payment, the sheriff may discharge the defendant out of custody. SEC. 128. A defendant arrested may at any time before judgment,

apply on motion to the judge who made the order, or to the court or
judge thereof, in which the action is pending, upon notice to the
plaintifff to vacate the order allowing the writ of arrest, except where
the cause of arrest and the causes of action are the same.

SEC. 129. If a motion be made upon affidavits or other proofs on
the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose
the same by affidavits or other proofs, in addition to those on which
the order was made. If upon the hearing of such motion, it shall
satisfactorily appear that there was not sufficient cause to allow the
writ, the order shall be vacated.

TITLE XIV.
Of the recovery of personal property.

SEC. 130. When delivery may be claimed, in an 136. J ustilication of sureties on defendant's unaction for the possession of person- dertaking.

all property. 137. Qualification and juatidcation of sureties.
131. Affidavit therefore, what it must show. 138. Power of sheriff when property concealed
132. Indorsement thereon requiring sher- in building or enclosure.

iii‘ to take property. 139. Property how kept, and when delivered
133. Undertaking to sheriff on the part of to plaintifff.

the plaintifff. 140. Proceedings, when claimed by third per134. Exception to snreties by defendant, sons.

proceedings thereon. R 141. Return of atildavit by sheriff.
135. How, and when defendant entitled to

re-delivery.

SEC. 130. In an action to recover the possession of personal property, the plaintiff, at any time after the action is commenced and
before judgment, may claim the immediate delivery of such property,
as provided in this title.

SEC. 131. When a delivery is claimed, an af‘f1davit shall be made
by the plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, showing:

1. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed (particularly describing it), or is lawfully entitled‘ to the possession thereof
by virtue of a special property therein, the facts in respect to which,
shall be set forth.

2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant.

3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his
best knowledge, information and belief.

4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment or

fine, pursuant to a statute, or seized under an execution or attachment
against the property of the plaintifff, or if so seized, that it is by
statute, exempt from such seizure ; and, ~

5. The actual value of the property.

SEC. 182. The plaintifff may thereupon, by an indorsement in
writing upon the aiiidavit, require the sheriff of the county, Where the
property claimed may be, to take the same from the defendant and
deliver it to the plaintifff.

SEC. 133. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and indorsement
thereon, with a written undertaking, executed by two or more
sufficient sureties, approved by the sheriff, to the effect that they are
bound in double the value of the property as stated in the aihdavit, for
the prosecution of the action, for the return of the property to the
defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him
of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against the plaintifff,
the sheriff shall forthwith take the property described in the affidavit,
if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain it in
his custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the defendant a
copy of the affidavit, indorsement thereon and undertaking, by delivering the same to him personally, if he can be found, or to his agent
from whose possession the property is taken: or, if neither can be
found, by leaving them at the usual place of abode of either, with
some person of suitable age and discretion; or, if neither have any
known place of abode, by putting them in the post office, directed to
the defendant at the post office nearest to him. '

SEC. 134. The defendant may, within three days after the service
of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the sheriff

that he excepts to the sufiiciency of the sureties. If he fail to do so,
he shall be deemed to have waived all objection to them. When the
defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify on notice in like manner
as upon bail on arrest. And the sheriff shall be responsible for the
sufficiency of the sureties, until the objection to them is either Waived,
as above provided, or until they shall justify, or new sureties shall be
substituted and justify. If the defendant except to the sureties, he
cannot reclaim the property as provided in the next section.

SEC. 135. At any time before the delivery of the property to the
plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the
plaintifff, require the return thereof upon giving to the sheriff a written

undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, to be approved
by the sheriff, to the effect that they are bound in double the value of
the property, as stated in the affidavit of the plaintifff, for the delivery
thereof to the plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against
the defendant. If a return of the property be not so required within
three days after the taking and service of a copy of the affidavit and
undertaking on the defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintifff;
except as provided in section 139.

Size. 136. The defendant's sureties, upon a notice to the plaintifff
or his attorney of not less than two, nor more than six days, shall
justify before a judge of the circuit or county court, or the clerk of the
court in which the action is pending, in the same manner as upon bail
on arrest; upon such justification, the sheriff shall deliver the property
to the defendant. The sheriff shall be responsible for the defendant’s
sureties until they justify, or until justification is completed or expressly
waived, and may retain the property until that time; but if they or
others in their place fail to justify at the time and place appointed, he
shall deliver the property to the plaintifff.

SEC. 137. The qualification of sureties and their justification shall

be as prescribed by sections 116 and 117 in respect to bail upon an order
of arrest.

SEC. 138. If the property or any part thereof be concealed in a
building or inclosurc, the sheriff shall publicly demand its delivery.
If it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be
broken open, and take the property into his possession; and, if necessary, he may call to his aid the power of his county.

SEC. 139. VVhen the sheriff shall have taken. property, as in this
title provided, he shall keep it in a secure place’, and deliver it to the
party entitled thereto upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and
his necessary expenses for keeping the same.

SEC. 140. If the property taken be claimed by any other person
than the defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his
title thereto, or his right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds
of such title or right, and serve the same upon the sheriff before the
delivery of the property to the plaintifff, the sheriff shall not be bound
to keep the property, or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff,
on demand of him or his agent, shall indemnify the sheriff against

such claim by an undertaking, executed by two sufficient sureties,
accompanied by their affidavits that they are each worth double the
value of the property as specified in the afhdavit of the plaintifff, over
and above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt
from execution, and freeholders or householders of the county. And
no claim to such property by any other person than the defendant or
his agent, shall be valid against the sheriff unless made as aforesaid;
and notwithstanding such claim, when so made, he may retain the
property a reasonable time to demand such indemnity.

SEC. 141. The sheriff shall file the affidavit, with his proceedings
thereon, including an inventory of the property taken, with the clerk
of the court in which the action is pending, within twenty days after
taking the property mentioned therein; or, if the clerk reside in
another county, shall mail or forward the same within that time.

TITLE XV.
Of attachment.

Sac. 142.. When plaintifff may have property of 156. If judgment not recovered by plaintifff,

defendant attached. property to be returned to defendant.
143. Writ of attachment by whom issued, 157. How defendant may have an order for the
and for what causes. return of the property.
144. Undertaking of plaintifff, to be filed 158. Undertaking of the defendant, upon such
before writ issues. order.
145. Writ to whom directed. and what it 159. When defendant may move to discharge
shall require. the attachment.
146. What property may be attached. 160. When writ to be returned.
147. Writ how executed. 161. What order upon garnisbee shall require.
148-. Effect of attachment as to third per- 162. When plaintifff may serve interrogatories
sons. on garnishee.
149. When real property attached, eertifi- 163. Answer of the garnishee.
cats of sheriff. 164. Plaintiff may have judgment for want of
150. When third persons must furnish cer- answer, or garnishee may be compelled
tiicate to sherid‘. to answer.
151. Perishable property may be sold. 165. Exceptions to answer.
152. When sheriff may deliver property to 166. Reply to answer, and trial of issue thereon.
defendant. 167. Judgment against the garnishee, upon
153. Defence to action upon such undsr- answer or trial.
taking. 168. Execution against garnishee, witnesses on
154. When sherid‘ to summon jury, to try trial.
the right of property. ' 169. When restraining order may be allowed
155. If judgment recovered by plaintifff, against garuishee.
sheriff to apply property upon ex- 170. What proceedings known as provisional
ecution, remainder to be delivered remedies.
to defendant.

Sue. 142. 1n an action for the recovery of money or damages, the

plaintifff at any time after the commencement of the action, and before
judgment, may have the property of the defendant attached in the
manner hereinafter prescribed, as a security for the satisfaction of such
judgment as he may recover.

SEC. 143. A writ of attachment shall be issued by the clerk of the
court in which the action is pending, whenever the plaintifff or any one
on his behalf shall make and file an affidavit, that a cause of action
exists against the defendant, and the grounds thereof‘, and that the
defendant is either:

1. A foreign corporation ; or, o

2. That he is not a resident of this state, or has departed therefrom with intent to delay or defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps himself concealed therein with the like
intent; or,

3. That he has removed, or is about to remove any of his property from this state with intent to delay or defraud his creditors ; or,

4. That he has assigned, secreted, or disposed of any of his property, or is about to assign, secrete or dispose of it, with intent to delay
or defraud his creditors; or,

5. That the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting
the debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought.

The affidavit may be either positive, or upon information and belief,
but if the latter, it shall state the nature and sources of the information
upon which the belief is founded.

SEC. 144. Upon filing the affidavit with the clerk, the plaintifff shall
be entitled to have the writ issue, as soon thereafter as he shall file
with the clerk his undertaking, with one or more sureties, in a sum
not less than one hundred dollars, and equal to the amount for which
the plaintifff demands judgment, and to the effect that the plaintifff will
pay all costs that may be adjudged to the defendant, and all damages
which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, if the same be
wrongful or without suilicient cause, not exceeding the sum specified
in the undertaking. With the undertaking the plaintifff shall also file
the affidavits of the sureties, from which affidavits it must appear that
such sureties are qualified, and that taken together they are worth
double the amount of the sum specified in the undertaking, over all
debts and liabilities, and property exempt from execution. No person
not qualified to become bail upon an arrest, is qualified to become
surety in an undertaking for an attachment.

SEC. 145. The writ shall be directed to the sheriff of any county in
which property of such defendant may be, and shall require him to
attach and safely keep all the property of such defendant within his
county not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be sutiicient to satisfy the plaintifff's demand, the amount of which shall be
stated in conformity with the complaint, together With costs and
expenses. Several writs may be issued at the same time to the sheriffs
of different counties.

SEC. 146. The rights or shares which such defendant may have in
the stock of any association or corporation, together with the interest,
and profits thereon, and all other property in this state of such defendant, not exempt from execution, shall be liable to be attached. The
sheriff shall note upon ‘the writ the date of its delivery to him, and
shall make a full inventory of the property attached, and return the
same with the writ.

Sec. 147. The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered
shall execute the same without delay, as follows :

1. Real property shall be attached, by leaving with the occupant
thereof, or if there be no occupant, in a conspicuous place thereon, a
copy of the writ certified by the sheriff;

2. Personal property capable of manual delivery to the sheriff,
and not in the possession of a third person shall be attached by taking
it into his custody.

3. Other personal property shall be attached, by leaving a certitied copy of the Writ, and a notice specifying the property attached,
with the person having the possession of the same, or if it be a debt,
then with the debtor, or if it be rights or shares in the stock of an
association or corporation or interest, or profits thereon, then with such
person or officer of such association or corporation as this code authorizes a summons to be served upon.

Sec. 148. From the date of the attachment, until it be discharged
or the Writ executed, the plaintifff as against third persons, shall be
deemed a purchaser in good faith and for a valuable consideration, ‘of
the property real or personal attached, subject to the conditions prescribed in the next section as to real property. Any person, association
or corporation mentioned in subdivision 3 of section 147, from the
service of a copy of the writ and notice as therein provided, shall,
unless such property, stock, or debts, be delivered, transferred, or paid
to the sheriff, be liable to the plaintifff for the amount thereof, until the

attachment be discharged or any judgment recovered by him be satisfied.

SEC. 149. If real property be attached, the sheriff shall make a certificate, containing the title of the cause, the names of the parties, a
description of such real property, and a statement that the same has
been attached, at the suit of the plaintifff, and the date thereof‘. Within
ten days from the date of the attachment, the sheriff shall deliver such

certificate to the county clerk of the county in which such real property is situated, who shall file the same in his office, and record it in a
book to be kept for that purpose. VVhen such certificate is so filed for
record, the lien in favor of the plaintifff shall attach to the real property
described in the certificate from the date of the attachment; but if
filed afterwards, it shall only attach, as against.third persons, from the
date of such subsequent filing. Whenever such lien shall be discharged, it shall be the duty of the county clerk, when requested, to
record the transcript of any order, entry of satisfaction of judgment,
or other proceeding of record, whereby it appears that such lien has
been discharged, in the book mentioned in this section. The clerk
shall also enter on the margin of the page, on which the certificate is
recorded, a minute of the discharge, and the page and book where
recorded.

SEC. 150. Whenever the sheriff with a writ of attachment against
the defendant, shall apply to any person or officer mentioned in subdivision 3 of section 147, for the purpose of attaching any property
mentioned therein, such person or oilicer shall furnish him with a
certificate, designating the amount and description of any property in
his possession belonging to the defendant, or any debt owing to the
defendant, or the number of rights or shares of the defendant in the
stock of the association or corporation, with any interest, or profits, or
encumbrance thereon. If such person or oiiicer refuse to do so, or if
the certificate when given be unsatisfactory to the plaintifff, he may be
required by the court or judge thereof where the action is pending to
appear before him, and be examined on oath concerning the same, and
disobedience to such order may be punished as contempt.

Sec. 151. If any of the property attached be perishable, the sheriff
shall sell the same in the manner, in which property is sold on execution. The proceeds thereof and other property attached, shall be
retained by him to -answer any judgment that may be recovered in the
action, unless sooner subjected to execution upon another judgment.
Personal property mentioned in subdivision 3 of section 147, may be

delivered, transferred, or paid to the sheriff, Without suit, and his
receipt therefore shall be a sufficient discharge accordingly.

SEC. 152. The sheriff may deliver any of the property attached to
the defendant, or to any other person claiming it, upon his giving a
Written undertaken therefore, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, engaging to re-deliver it, or pay the value thereof to the sheriff,
to Whom execution upon a judgment obtained by the plaintifff in that
action may be issued.

SEC. 153. If an action be brought upon such undertaking against
the principal or his sureties, it shall be a defense that the property for
which the undertaking was given, did not at the excution of the writ
of attachment, belong to. the defendant against Whom it was issued.

SEC. 154. If any personal property attached, be claimed by a third
person as his property, the sheriff may summon a jury to try the
validity of such claim, and the same proceedings shall be had thereon
with the like effect, as in case of seizure upon execution.

SEC. 155. If judgment be recovered by the plaintifff, and execution
issue thereon, the sheriff shall apply the property attached by him or
the‘ proceeds thereof upon the execution, and if there be any of such
property or proceeds remaining after satisfying such execution, he
shall upon demand deliver the same to the defendant.

SEC. 156. If judgment be not recovered by the plaintifff, all the
property attached, or the proceeds thereof, or the undertaking therefore,
shall be returned to the defendant, upon his serving upon the sheriff,
a certified copy of the order discharging the attachment.

SEC. 157. Wlienever the defendant shall have appeared in the
action he may apply upon notice to the plaintifff to the court or judge
where the action is pending, or to the clerk of such court, for an order
to discharge the attachment upon the execution of the undertaking
mentioned in the next section; and if the application be allowed, all
the procceeds of sales, and property remaining in his hands, shall be
released from the attachment and delivered to the defendant, upon his
serving a certified copy of the order on the sheriff.

SEC. 158. Upon such application, the defendant shall deliver to the
court or judge to whom the application is made, an undertaking executed by one or more sureties, resident householders or freeholders of
this state, to the effect that the sureties will pay to the plaintifff the
amount of the judgment that may be recovered against the defendant

in the action. If the plaintifff demand it, the sureties shall be required
to justify in the same manner as bail upon an arrest.

SEC. 159. The defendant may at any time before judgment, except
where the cause of attachment and the cause of action are the same,
apply to the court or judge thereof, where the action is pending, to
discharge the attachment, in the manner and with the effect, as provided in sections 128, 129, for the discharge of a defendant from arrest.

SEC. 160. When the writ of attachment shall be fully executed or
discharged, the sheriff shall return the same, with his proceedings
endorsed thereon, to the clerk of the court where the action was

commenced.
SEC. 161. The order provided for in section 150, shall require such

person or officer, to appear before such court or judge at a time and
place therein stated. In the proceedings thereafter upon such order,
such person or association or corporation, shall be known as the

garnishee.

SEC. 162. After the allowance of the order, and before such garnishce or officer thereof shall be thereby required to appear, or within a
time to be specified in the order, the plaintifff may serve upon such garnishce or officer thereof, written allegations and interrogatories touching
any of the property liable to attachment as the property of the defendant as provided in subdivision 3, of section 1-17, and as to which such
garnishce or oiiicer thereof is required to give a certificate as provided
in section 150.

SEC. 163. On the day when the garnishce or officer thereof, shall
be required to appear before the court or judge thereof, he shall return
the allegations and interrogatories of the plaintifff, to the court or
judge, with his written answer thereto, unless for good cause shown a
further time be allowed. Such answer shall be on oath, and shall
contain a full and direct response to all the allegations and interrogatories.

SEC. 164. If the garnishce or officer thereof fail to answer, the
court or judge thereof on motion of the plaintifff, may compel him to
do so, or the plaintifff may, at any time after the entry of judgment
against the defendant in the action, have judgment against the garnishce for want of such answer. In no case shall judgment be given

against the garnishce for a greater amount, than the judgment against

the defendant in the action.
SEC. 165. The plaintiffmay except to the answer of the garnishce

or officer thereof for insuiiiciency, within such time as may be prescribed or allowed, and if the same be adjudged insufficient, such
garnishee or ofricer may be allowed to amend his answer, on such
terms as may be proper, or judgment may be given for the plaintifff as
for want of answer, or such garnishee or oiiicer may be compelled to
make a sufficient answer. —

SEC. 166. The plaintifff may reply to the whole or a part of the
answer within such time as may be prescribed or allowed, and the
issues arising thereon shall be tried as ordinary of issues of fact
between plaintifff and defendant. If the answer be not excepted, or
replied to within the time prescribed or allowed, it shall be taken to
be true and sufficient.

SEC. 167. If by the answer it shall appear, or if upon trial it shall
be found, that the garnishee, at the time of the service upon ‘him or
the officer thereof, of the copy of the writ of attachment and notice,
had any property of the defendant's liable to attachment as provided in
subdivision 3 of section 147, and as to which such garnishee or officer
thereof is required to give a certificate as provided in section 150,
beyond the amount admitted in the certificate, or in any amount if
the certificate was refused, judgment may be given against ‘such garnishee for the value thereof in money. ‘The garnishee may at any
time before judgment discharge himself by delivering, paying or transferring the property to the sheriff.

SEC. 168. Executions may issue upon judgments against a garnishee
as upon ordinary judgments between plaintifff and defendant, and
costs and disbursements shall be allowed and recovered in like manner.
Witnesses, including the defendant and garnishee or officer thereof,
may be required to appear and testify upon such proceeding against
a garnishee, as upon the trial of an issue of fact.

SEC. 169. The court or judge thereof in its discretion may, at the
time of the application of the plaintifff for the order provided for in
section 150, and at any time thereafter before judgment against the
garnishee, by order restrain the garnishee from paying, transferring,
or in any manner disposing of, or injuring, any of the property of the
defendant, alleged by the plaintifff to be in the garnishee’s possession,
control, or owing by him to the defendant, and disobedience to such
order may be punished as a contempt.

SEC. 170. The proceedings provided for in titles XIH., XIV. and
XV. shall be known as provisional remedies. '

CHAPTER II.

TITLE I.——0f issues and the mode of trial.

TITLE II.—0f the formation of the jury.

TITLE III.—C’onduct of the trial by jury.

TITLE IV.—0f the verdict.

TITLE V.— Trial by the court.

TITLE VI.— Trial by referees.

TITLE VII.—-—0f Exceptions.

TITLE VIII.—0f new trial.

TITLE 1X.—General provisions.

TITLE X.—-Of judgment in general.

TITLE XI.-Of judgment of non-suit.

TITLE XII.—0f judgment on failure to answer.
TITLE XIII.—0f judgment by confession.

TITLE XIV.——0f submitting controverw without action.
TITLE XV .-—0f the manner of giving and entering judgment.
TITLE XVI.—Lien of judgment, and final record.

TITLE I.
Of issues and the mock of trial.

Sac. 171. The different kinds of issues. 175. Trial delined.
172. Issue of law. 176. Issues how tried.

173. Issue of fact. 177. Motion to postpone trial, on account of 919- _

174. When both issue of law and fact sent evidence.
arise, issue of law to be first tried.

SEC. 171. Issues arise upon the pleadings when a fact or conclusion of law is maintained by the one party, and controverted by the
other. They are of two kinds:

1. Of law; and
2. Of fact.

SEC. 172. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint,
answer, or reply, or to some part thereof.

SEC. 173. An issue of fact arises:

1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, controverted by

the answer; or

2. Upon new matter in the answer controverted by the reply; or

3. Upon new matter in the reply, except an issue of law is joined
thereon.

SEC. 174. Issues both of law and of fact may arise upon different
parts of the pleadings in the same action. In such cases the issues of
law shall be first tried, unless the court otherwise direct.

SEC. 175'. A. trial is the judicial examination of the issues between
the parties, whether they be issues of law or of fact.’

SEC. 176. An issue of law shall be tried by the court, unless
referred as provided in title VI. of chapter II. An issue of fact shall
be tried by a jury, unless tried by the court or referred as provided in
titles V. and VI. of chapter II.

SEC. 177. A motion to postpone a trial on the ground of the
absence of evidence, shall only be made upon affidavit showing the
materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained, and what diligence
has been used to procure it, and also the name and residence of the
Witness or Witnesses. The court may alsoirequire the moving party
to state upon affidavit, the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if
the adverse party thereupon admit that such evidence would be given,
and that it be considered as actually given on the trial, or offered and
overruled as improper, the trial shall not be postponed. The court
when it allows the motion, may impose such conditions or terms upon

the moving party as may be just.
TITLE II.

Of the formation of the jury.
Ste. 178. How jury formed, and what number 187. Either party may challenge. Who must

- shall constitute. join. Number of peremptory challenges
179. Challengenot allowed to the panel, allowed.
€59-110089 d°nll°d- 188. Challenge £1-st taken by defendant.
180. Peremptory challenge defined. when taken,
181. Challenge for cause defined. 139, order of chQl]en8g_
182. General causes of challenge. 'l90. Challenge may be excepted to or denied
183. Particular $8608 Of 01181161180.  gdvgg-pg pg;-ty’  -go, gouft, to de.
184. Causes of challenge for implied bias. tgrmine it. .
185. Causes of challenge for actual bias. 191. Proceedings on the trial of a challenge.

135- Exemption, not cause of challenge. 192. Proceedings may be oral. Judge to note
' substance of in his minutes.

193. Oath of jury.
SEC. 178. Trial juries shall be formed as follows:

Wlien the action is called for trial the clerk shall draw from the
trial jury box of the court, one by one, the ballots containing the
names of the jurors until the jury is completed, or the ballots are
exhausted. If the ballots become exhausted before the jury is complete, the sheriff under the direction of the court, shall summon from
the bystanders, or the body of the county, so many qualified persons
as may be necessary to complete the jury. Whenever as in this
section provided, the sheriff shall summon more than one person at a
time from the bystanders or the body of the county, he shall return
a list of the persons so summoned to the clerk. The clerk shall write
the names of such persons upon separate ballots, and depositc the
same in the trial jury box, and then draw such ballots therefrom, as in
the case'of the panel of trial jurors for the term. The jury shall
consist of twelve persons unless, the parties consent to a less number.
Such consent shall be entered in the journal.

SEC. 179. N o challenge shall be made or allowed to the panel. A

challenge is an objection to a particular juror and may be either :'
1. Peremptory; or

2. For cause.

SEC. 180. A peremptory challenge, is an objection to a juror for

which no reason need be given, but upon which the court shall
exclude him.

Sec. 181. A challenge for cause is an objection to a juror, and may
be either:
1. General; that the juror is disqualified from serving in any
action; or I
2. Particular; that he is disqualified from serving in the action
on trial.

SEC. 182. General causes of challenge are:

1. A conviction for a felony.

2. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by law for
a juror. '

3. Unsoundness of min_d, or such defect in the faculties of the
mind, or organs of the body, as renders him incapable of performing
the duties of a juror.

0

SEC. 183. Particular causes of challenge are of two kinds:
1. For such a. bias as, when the existence of the facts is as ascertained, in judgment of law disqualifies the juror, and which is known
in this code as implied bias.

2. For the existence of a state of mind on the part of the juror,
in reference to the action, or to either party, which satisfies the trier,
in the exercise of a sound discretion, that he cannot try the issue
impartially, and without prejudice to the substantial rights of the party
challenging, and which is known in this code as actual bias.

SEC. 184. A challenge for implied bias may be taken for any or all
of the following causes, and not otherwise.

1. Consauguinity or aiiinity within the fourth degree to either
party.

2. Standing in the relation of guardian and Ward, attorney and
client, master and servant, or landlord and tenant, to the adverse party;
or being a member of the family of, or a partner in business with, or
in the employment for wages of the adverse party, or being surety or
bail in the action called for trial, or otherwise, for the adverse party.

3. Having served as a juror on a previous trial in the same action,
or in another action between the same parties for the same cause of
action, or in a criminal action by the state against either -party, upon
substantially the same fact or transaction.

4. Interest on the part of the juror in the event of the action, or
the principal question involved therein.

SEC. 185. A challenge for actual bias may be taken for the cause .

mentioned in the second subdivision of section 183. But on the trial
of such challenge, although it should appear that the juror challenged
has formed or expressed an opinion upon the merits of the cause from
what he may have heard or read, such opinion shall not of itself be
sufficient to sustain the challenge, but the court must be satisticd from
all the circumstances, that the juror cannot disregard such opinion,
and try the issue impartially.

SEC. 186. An exemption from service on a jury shall not be cause
of challenge, but the privilege of the person exempted.

SEC. 187. A peremptory challenge, or a challenge for cause may be
taken by either party. When there are two or more parties plaintifffs
or defendants, they must join in the challenge, or it cannot be taken.
Either party shall be entitled to three peremptory challenges and

no more.
SEC. 188. All challenges shall be taken lirst by the defendant and

then by the plaintff, and the defendant shall exhaust his challenges to
a particular juror before the plaintifff begins. All challenges shall be
taken to each juror as he is drawn and appears, and before another
juror is drawn, unless the court for good cause shown shall permit a

challenge to be taken afterwards and before the number of the jury
is completed.

SEC. 189. The challenges of either party shall be taken separately
in the following order, including in each challenge all the causes of
challenge belonging to the same class :

1. For general disqualification.

2. For implied bias.

3. For actual bias.

4. Peremptory ; but either party may take peremptory challenge
at any time before his right of challenge ceases.

SEC. 190. The challenge may be excepted to by the adverse party for
insutliciency, and if so, the court shall determine the sutlicieney thereof,
assuming the facts alleged therein to be true. The challenge may be
denied by the adverse party, and if so, the court shall try the issue,
and determine the law and the fact.

SEC. 191. Upon the trial of a challenge, the rules of evidence
applicable to testimony offered upon the trial of an ordinary issue of
fact, shall govern. The juror challenged, or any other person otherwise competent, may be examined as a witness by either party. If a
challenge be determined to be sufficient, or found to be true, as the
case may be, it shall be allowed, and the juror to whom it was taken
excluded. But if determined or found otherwise, it shall be disallowed.

SEC. 192. The challenge, the exception‘ and the denial, may be
made orally. The judge of the court shall note the same upon his
minutes, and the substance of the testimony on either side.

SEC. 193. As soon as the number of the jury has been completed,
an oath or affirmation shall be administered to the jurors in substance,
that they and each of them, will well and truly try the matter in issue
between the plaintifff and defendant, and a true verdict give according
to the law and evidence as given them on the trial.

TITLE III.
Conduct of the trial by jury.

SEC. 194. Order of proceedings on the trial. 905- when 110W trial may 50 bad» if 501')’ 359‘
195. When a View may be ordered. °h31'8¢d195_ Mame, of keeping jm.y_ 206. Court deemed open until jury give verdict
197. When juror taken sick, how to pro- 01' di80h8l'L.'0d0084- 207. If juror absent when jury return, jury to
198. The charge to the jury. , be digchal-ged_
199. When juror may be made witness. Q03_ Manner of giving ye}-dict,
200- HOW 5111'! IND‘? Whih d0m>°l'8l-5|lR- 209. Jury may be polled, or insumeient. verdict
Officer to be sworn. con-Qct¢d_
901- F°°d and 1°db'ln8 Of .l“l'°T3- 210. When verdict complete, and jury dis202. What papers jury may take. A charged, verdict to be in writing and
203. When jury may return forinformation. , amend on the journal.
204. When jury may be discharged without giving verdict.

SEC. 19-1. When the jury has been completed and sworn the trial
shall proceed in the order prescribed in this section, unless the court
for special reasons otherwise direct:

1. The plaintifff shall state briefly his cause of action, and the
issue to be tried; the defendant shall then in like manner state his
defense, or counterclaim.

2. The plaintifff shall then offer the evidence on his part, and
when he has concluded, the defendant shall do the same.

3. The parties may then respectively offer rebutting evidence
only, unless the court for good reason, and in furtherance of justice,
permit them to offer evidence upon the original cause of action or
defense.

4. N ot more than two counsel shall be allowed to address the
jury on behalf of the plaintifff or defendant. The whole time occupied
on behalf of either shall not exceed one hour.

5. When the evidence is concluded, unless the case is submitted
to the jury on both sides Without argument, the plaintifff shall commence and conclude the argument to the jury. The plaintifff may
waive the opening argument, and if the defendant then argue the case
to the jury, the plaintifff shall have the right ’ to reply to the argument
of the defendant, and not otherwise.

6. The court may then charge the jury.

SEC. 195. VVhenever in the opinion of the court, it is proper that
the jury should have a view of real property which is the subject of
the litigation, or of the place in which any material fact occurred, it

may order the jury to be conducted in a body, in the custody of a
proper officer, to the place, which shall be shown to them by the

judge, or by a person appointed by the court for that purpose. While
the jury are thus absent, no person, other than the judge or the person
so appointed, shall speak to them on any subject connected with the
trial.

SEC. 196. The jurors may be kept together in charge of a proper
officer, or may, in the discretion of the court, at any time before the
submission of the cause to them, be permitted to separate; in either
case they may be admonished by the court that it is their duty not to
converse with any other person, or among themselves, on any subject
connected with the trial, or to express any opinion thereon, until the
case is iinally submitted to them.

SEC. 197. If, after the formation of the jury, and before verdict, a
juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform his duty, the court
may order him to be discharged. In that case unless the parties agree
to proceed with the other jurors, a new juror may be sworn, and the
trial begin anew; or the jury may be discharged, and a new jury then
or afterwards formed.

SEC. 198. In charging the jury, the court shall state to them all
matters of law which it thinks necessary for their information in giving
their verdict, and if it presents the facts of the case, it shall also inform
them that they are the exclusive judges of all questions of fact.

SEC. 199. A juror may be examined by either party as a witness.
if he be otherwise competent. If he be not so examined, he shall not
communicate any private knowledge or information that he may have
of the matter in controversy, to his fellow jurors, nor be governed by

the same in giving his verdict.

SEC. 200. After hearing the charge, the jury may either decide in
the jury box, or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they must be
kept together in a room provided for them, or some other convenient
place, under the charge of one or more officers, until they agree upon
their verdict, or are discharged by the-court. The oiiieer shall, to the
utmost of his ability, keep the jury thus together separate from other
persons, without drink, except water, and without food, except ordered
by the court. He must not suffer any communication to be made to
them, nor make any himself, unless by the order of the court, except
to ask them if they have agreed upon their verdict, and he shall not,

before the verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the state of
their deliberations or the verdict agreed on. Before any officer takes
charge of a jury, this section shall be read to him, and he shall be then
sworn, to conducthimself according to its provisions, to the utmost of
his ability.

SEC. 201. If, while the jury are kept together, either during the
progress of the trial or after their retirement for deliberation, the court
order them to be provided with suitable and sufiicient food and lodging,
they shall be so provided by the sheriff, at the expense of the county.

SEC. 202. Upon returning for deliberation, the jury may take with
them the pleadings, in the cause, and all papers which have been
received as evidence on the trial, (except depositions;) or copies of
such parts of public records or private documents given in evidence as
ought not, in the opinion of the court to be taken from the person
having them in possession. They may also take with them notes of
the testimony or other proceedings on the trial taken by themselves,
or any of them, but none taken by any other person.

SEC. 203. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there be a
disagreement between them as to any part of the testimony, or if they
desire to be informed of any point of law arising in the case, they may
require the‘ officer having them in charge to conduct them into court.
Upon their being brought into court, the information required shall be
given in the presence of, or after notice to the parties or their attornies.

SEC. 204. Except as provided in sections 197 and 207, or in case of
some accident or calamity requiring their discharge, the jury shall not
be discharged after the cause is submitted to them, until they have
agreed upon a verdict, and given it in open court, unless by the
consent of both parties entered in the journal, or unless at the expiration of such_period as the court deem proper, it satisfactorily appears,
that there is no probability of an agreement.

SEC. 205. In all cases Where a jury are discharged, or prevented
from giving a verdict, by reason of accident or other cause, during the
progress of the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, the action
may be again tried immediately, or at a future time, as the court
directs.

SEC. 206. \Vhi1c the jury are absent, the court may adjourn from
time to time, in respect to other business, but it is nevertheless to be
deemed open, for every purpose connected with the cause submitted

to the jury, until a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged. A final
adjournment of the court discharges the jury.

SEC. 207. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict, they shall
be conducted into court by the oiiieer having them in charge. Their
names shall then be called, and if all do not appear, the rest shall be
discharged without giving a verdict.

Sec. 208. If the jury appear, they shall be asked by the court or
the clerk, whether they have agreed upon their verdict;° and if the
foreman answer in the aliirmative, he shall, on being required, declare
the same.

SEC. 209. When a verdict is given, and before it is filed, the jury
may be polled on the request of either party ; for which purpose each
shall be asked whether it be his verdict; if any juror answer in the
negative, the jury shall be sent out for further deliberation. If the
verdict be informal or insuilicient, it may be corrected by the jury under
the advice of the court, or the jury may be again sent out.

SEC. 210. When the verdict is given, and is such as the court may
receive, and if no juror disagree, or the jury be not again sent out, the
clerk shall file the verdict. The verdict is then complete, and the
jury shall be discharged from the case. The verdict shall be in
writing, and under the direction of the court shall be substantially
entered in the journal as of the day’s proceedings on which it was
given.

TITLE IV.
Of the verdict.

Size. 210.’ De-llnition of verdict, general or 212. When jury may give general or special

special. verdict.
211. In actions for the recovery of specilic 213. Special verdict to control general.
personal property. 214. When counterclaim pleaded in the answer.

SEC. 210.’! The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A
general verdict is that by which the jury pronounce generally upon all
or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintifff or defendant. A

special verdict is that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the
judgment to the court.

SEC. 211. In an action for the recovery of specific personal property, if the property have not been delivered to the plaintifff, or the
defendant by his answer claim a return thereof, the. jury shall assess
the value of the property, if their verdict be in favor of the plaintifff,
or if they find in favor of the defendant, and that he is entitled to a
return thereof, and may at the same time assess the damages, if any
are claimed in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing party has
sustained by reason of the detention, or taking and withholding
such property. .

SEC. 212. In every action for the recovery of money only, or specitic real property, the jury,  their discretion, may render a general
or special verdict. In all other cases the court may direct the jury to
iind a special verdict upon all or any of the issues; and in all cases
may instruct them, if they render a general verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in writing. The special verdict
or iinding shall be med with the clerk and entered in the journal, as
provided in title HI, of this chapter.

SEC. 213. When a special iinding of facts shall be inconsistent with
the general verdict, the former shall control the latter, and the court
shall give judgment accordingly.

SEC. 214. When a verdict is found for the plaintifff in an action for
recovery of money, or for the defendant when a counterclaim for the
recovery of money is established beyond the amount of the plaintifff's
claim as established, the jury shall also assess the amount of recovery;
they may also, under the direction of the court, assess the amount of
the recovery when the court give judgment for the plaintifff on
the answer.

. TITLE V.
Trial by the court.

Ste. 215. Trial by jury how waived. 217. Order of proceedings, and effect of find216. Decision of the court how made, and ing.
when filed.

SEC. 215. ' Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to an
issue of fact, in actions on contract, and with the assent of the court in
other actions, in the manner following:

1. By failing to appear at the trial;

2. By written consent, in person, or by attorney, filed with
the clerk;
3. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.

SEC. 216. Upon the trial of an issue of fact by the court, its decision shall be given in writing and filed with the clerk during the term,
or within twenty days thereafter. The decision shall state the facts
found, and the conclusion of law separately, without argument or reason therefore. Such decision shall be entered in the journal and judgment entered thereon accordingly. The court may deliver any argument or reason in support of such decision, either orally, or in writing

separate from the decision and file the same with the clerk.

Sec. 217. The order of proceedings on a trial by the court, shall
be the same as provided in trials by jury. The finding of the court
upon the facts shall be deemed a verdict, and may be set aside in the

same manner and for the same reasons as far as applicable, and a new
trial granted.

TITLE VI.
Trial by referees.
Ste. 218. Thetrialofanylssuenay [be] re» 223. Proeeedings,semeasinu-ialbyoourt.

fen-ed by consent. 224. What report to contain. Evidence to ac2l9. When reference may be ordered by company it.

the court. — £5. lotion to set aside report, or for judgment
%. Number of referees and how chosen. thereon.
221. When chosen by the court, qualinca- 226. Proceedings thereon.

tions of.
@. Right and mode of challenge to
referees, when chosen by the court.

SEC. 218. All or any of the issues in the action, whether of fact or
law, or both, may be referred upon the written consent of the parties.

81:0. 219. When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon
the application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in
the following cases:

1. When the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination of a long account on either side, in which case the referees may
be directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or to report upon any

specific question of fact involved therein; or
2. When the taking of- an account shall be necessary for the

information of the court, before judgment upon an issue of law, or for
carrying a judgment or order into effect; or
8. When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, shall
arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action; or
4. When it is necessary for the information of the court in a
special proceeding. '
Sec. 22. A reference may be ordered to any person or persons, not

exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If the parties do not
agree, the court or judge may appoint one or more, not exceeding three.

SEC. 221. When the appointment of referees is made by the court

or judge, each referee shall be:
1. Qualified as a juror as provided by statute ;

2. Competent as a juror between the parties.

SEC. 222. When the referees are chosen by the court, each party
shall havethe same right of challenge, as to such referees, to be made
and determined in the same manner and with like effect, as in the

formation of juries, except that neither party shall be entitled to a
peremptory challenge.

SEC. 223. Subject to the limitations and directions prescribed in
the order of reference, the trial by referees shall be conducted in the
same manner as a trial by the court. They shall have the same power
to grant adjournments, administer oaths, to preserve order and punish
all violations thereof upon such trial, and to compel the attendance of
witnesses, and to punish them for non-attendance, or refusal to be

sworn or testify as is possessed by the court.

SEC. 224. The report of the referees shall state the facts found, and
when the order of reference includes an issue of law, it shall state the
conclusions of law separately from the facts. The referees shall file
with their report the evidence received upon the trial. If evidence
offered by either party shall not be admitted on the trial, and the party
offering the same except to the decision rejecting such evidence at the
time, the exception shall be noted by the referees, and they shall take
and receive such testimony, and file it with the report. Whatever
judgment the court may give upon the report, it shall, when it appears
that such evidence was frivolous or inadmissible, require the party
at whose instance it was taken and reported, to pay all costs and
disbursements thereby incurred.

Sec. 225. The report shall be filed with the clerk. If it be filed in

term time, either party may within such time as may be prescribed by
the rules‘ of the court, or by special order, move to set the same aside
or for judgment thereon, or such order or proceeding as the nature
of the case may require. If the report be filed in vacation the like
proceedings may be had at the next term following. '

SEC. 226. The court may affirm or set aside the report either in
whole or in part. If it affirm the report, it shall give judgment
accordingly. If the report be set aside either in whole or in part, the
court may make another order of reference, as to all, or so much of
he report as is set aside, to the original referees, or others, or it
may find the facts and determine the law itself, and give judgment
accordingly. Upon a motion to set aside a report the conclusions
thereof shall be deemed and considered as the verdict of a jury.

TITLE VII.
Of exceptimw.

SEC. 227. Definition of exception, must be 1113- 229. No particular form required.
terial. 230. To be signed by the judge and filed. When
228. Exceptions how stated and settled. exceptions need notbe taken or allowed.

SEC. 227. An exception is an objection taken at the trial to a
decision upon matter of law, whether such trial be by jury, or court,
and whether the decision be made during the formation of a jury, or
in the admission of evidence, or in the charge to the jury, or at any
other time from the calling of the action for trial to the rendering of
the verdict or decision. But no exception shall be regarded on a
motion for a new ‘trial, or on an appeal, unless the exception be
material, and affect the substantial rights of the parties.

SEC. 228. The point of the exception shall be particularly stated,
and may be delivered, in Writing, to the judge, or entered in his
minutes, and at the time or afterwards, be corrected until made

conformable to the truth.

SEC. 229. No particular form of exception shall he required. The
objection shall be stated, with so much of the evidence or other matter
as is necessary to explain it, but no more.

Sac. 230. The statement of the exception when settled and allowed,
shall be signed by the judge and filed with the clerk, and thereaiter it

shall be deemed and taken to be a part of the record of the cause. No
exception need be taken or allowed to any decision upon a matter of
law, when the same is entered in the journal, or made wholly upon
matters in writing and‘ on file in the court.

TITLE VIII.
Of new trial.
-‘cl-ti‘ ‘ .. '1 L  i‘ .‘ T"'i‘
8;c.',  llleiinition of new trial. 235. Motion must state the grounds 
2%. New trial, for what causes granted. when supported by affidavits.
’ '%. Motion for, when filed, and deter- 3 236. When counter affidavits allowed.‘ ‘
234. Upon trial by the court. and decision
in vacation.

SEC. 231. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of factiin the

same court, after a trial and decision or verdict by a court or jury.
SEC. 232. The former verdict or other decision may be set aside
and a new trial granted on the motion of the party aggrieved, for any
of the following causes, materially affecting the substantial rights of
such party: _ A
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or adverse
party, or any order of the court, or abuse of discretion by which such
party was prevented from having a fair trial; '
2. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party; V
3. Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against; . A _ j
4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the
application, which he could not with reasonable diligence have dis- covered and produced at the trial;
5. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the '

iniluence of passion or prejudice;

6. Insuiiiciency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other
decision, or that it is against law;

7. Error in law occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the
party making the application.

SEC. 233. A motion for a new trial, with the affidavits, if any, in

support thereof, shall be filed within one day after giving the verdict
or other decision sought to be set aside. When the adverse party is

entitled to oppose the motion by counter affidavits, he shall file the

same within one day after the filing of the motion. The motion shall
be heard and determined during the term, unless the court continue
the same for advisement, or want of time to hear it. When not so
heard and determined, or continued, it shall be deemed withdrawn,
and may be disregarded.

Sac. 234. Upon a trial by the court when the decision is given in
vacation, a motion for a new trial shall be filed within twenty days
from the time of filing such decision. If the next regular term of said
court shall commence within less than twenty days from the time of
filing such decision, then such motion shall be filed by the first day of '
said term. In either case the adverse party may within four days
after the filing of the motion, file counter aiiidavits, where the same
are allowed.

SEC. 235. In all cases of motion for a new trial, the grounds thereof
shall be plainly specihed, and no cause of new trial not so stated, shall

‘be considered or regarded by the court. When the motion is made

for a cause mentioned in the first, second, third and fourth subdivisions
of section 232, it shall be upon affidavit, setting forth the facts upon
which such motion is based.

SEC. 236. If the motion be supported by affidavits, counter affidavits may be offered by the adverse party; and if the cause he newly
discovered evidence, the affidavits of any witness or witnesses showing
what their testimony will he, shall be produced, or good reasons shown
for their non-production; and in the consideration of any motion for
a new trial, reference may be had to any procedings in the case, prior
to the verdict, or other decision sought to be set aside.

TITLE IX.

General provisions.

Ste. 237. Questions of law and fact, how sub- 239. Questions of law, and what of fact to be
mitted, and when. decided by the court.
238. Questions of fact to be decided by the

Jury.

SEC. 237. Any party may, when the evidence is closed, submit in
distinct and concise propositions, the conclusions of fact which he
claims to be established, or the conclusions of law which he desires to
be adjudged, or both. They may be written and handed to the court,

or at the option of the court, oral, and entered in the judge’s minutes.

SEO. 238. All questions of fact other than those mentioned ‘in section 289, shall be decided by the jury, and all evidence thereon
addressed to them. Sac. 239. All questions of law including the admissibility of testimony, the facts preliminary to such admission, and the construction of
statutes and other writings, and other rules of evidence, are to be
decided by the court, and all discussions of law addressed to it. And
whenever the knowledge of the court, is by this code, ‘made evidence
of a fact, the court is to declare such knowledge to the jury, who are

bound to accept it as conclusive.

TITLE X.
Of judgment in general.

Sac. 240. Deluition of judgment. 242. When judgment may be given against one
24]. Judgment may begiven for or against or more defendants, and action remain
any of the parties. pending as to others.
Sac. 240. A judgment is the iinal determination of the rights of
the parties in the action.

Sac. 241. Judgment may be given for or against one or more of
several plaintifffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants;
and it may, when the justice of the case requires it, determine the
ultimate rights of the parties on each side as between themselves.

Sac. 242. In an action against several defendants the court may,
in its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, whenever a several judgment is proper, leaving the action to proceed against

the others.

TITLE XI. ,
Of judgment of non-suit.
Sac. 243. When judgment of non-suit may be 244. What is a cause not sumcient to be subgiven. mitted to the jury.

245. Etfect of judgment of non-suit.

830. 243. A judgment of non-suit may be given against the
plaintifff as provided in this title.

1. On motion of the plaintifff, at any time before trial, unless a
counterclaim has been pleaded as a defense.

2. On motion of either party, upon the written consent of the
other filed with the clerk.

3. On motion of the defendant, when the action is called for
trial, and the plaintifff fails to appear, or when after the trial has begun
and before the final submission of the cause, the plaintifff abandons it,
or when upon the trial the plaintifff fails to prove a cause sufhcient to
be submitted to the jury.

SEC. 244. A cause not sufhcient to be submitted to the jury, is one,
where it appears, that if the jury were to find a verdict for the plaintifff,
upon any or all of the issues to be tried, the court ought if required,
set it aside for want of evidence to support it.

Size. 245. When a judgment of non-suit is given, the action is dismissed; but such judgment shall not have the effect to bar another

action for the same cause.

TITLE XII.
Of judgment on failure to answer.

Sac. 246. When judgment may be given for want of answer.

SEC. 246. When the time for answering the complaint has expired,
and it appears that the defendant, or one or more of several defendants, in the cases mentioned in section 59, has been duly served with
the summons, and has failed to answer the complaint, the plaintifff
shall be entitled to have judgment against such defendant or defendants.

1. When it appears that the action is upon a contract, and for the
recovery of money or damages only, the plaintifff, on motion, shall
have judgment immediately for the amount stated in the summons.

2. In other actions, the plaintifff on motion, shall have judgment
immediately for the amount stated in the summons or the relief
demanded in the complaint,-unless it be necessary to enable the court
to give judgment, or carry the same into effect, to take proof of any
matter or fact, in which case the court may order the entry of judgment
to be delayed until such proof be taken. The court may hear the
proof itself, or make an order of reference, or that a jury be called to
inquire thereof.

3. When the defendant has answered and admits the plaintifff ‘a
claim, but sets up a counterclaim amounting to less than the plaintiil"s
claim, the plaintifff, on motion, shall have judgment for the excess of
his claim over such counterclaim, as for want of answer thereto.

4. When in any action the service of the summons appears to
have been made by publication, the court may in its discretion order
the entry of judgment to be delayed, until the plaintifff file with the
clerk an undertaking with one or more sureties, to be approved by the
clerk, in an amount equal to the sum for which judgment may be
given, upon the condition that the plaintifff will abide by and perform

any order of the court requiring restitution to be made to the defendant or his representative, in case either of them shall afterwards be
admitted to defend the action. The sureties in the undertaking shall

have the qualifications of bail, and justify before the clerk as provided
in section 116.

TITLE XIII.
Of judgment by confession.

Sac. W. Judgment by confession, where action 250. Confession to be in writing, how judgment
pending. given. 248. Who to make confession. 251. Judgment by confession without action.
249. When judgment may be given against 252. How confession made in such cases.
severaldefendants on the confession 253. Same subject. Execution when judgment
of one. for installments.

SEC. 247. On the confession of the defendant, with theassent of
the plaintifff or his attorney, judgment may be given against the
defendant in any action, before or after answer, for any amount or
relief, not exceeding or different from that demanded in the complaint.

Sec. 248. When the action is against the state, a county or other
public corporation therein, or a private corporation, or a minor, the
confession shall be made by the person who at the time sustains the
relation to such state, corporation, county or minor, as would authorize
the service of a summons upon him, or in the case of a minor, if a
guardian for the action has been appointed, then by such guardian.

In all other cases the confession shall be made by the defendant
in person.

SEC. 249. When the action is upon a contract and against one or
more defendants jointly liable, judgment may be given on the confession of one or more defendants against all the defendants thus jointly
liable, whether such defendants have been served with the summons

or not, to be enforced, only against their joint property, and against the
joint and separate property of the defendant making the confession.

SEC. 250. The confession and assent thereto, shall be in writing
and subscribed by the parties or their attornies making the same, and
acknowledged by each before some officer authorized to take acknowledgments of deeds; but such acknowledgement is not required, when
the parties or their attornies, shall appear in court when the judgment
is given, or before the clerk in vacation by whom the judgment is
entered. In all cases the confession and assent thereto, and the

acknowledgement if any, shall be filed with the clerk.

Sac. 251. On the confession of any person capable by this code of
being made a party defendant to an action at law, judgment may be
given against such person, without action, in term time or vacation in
favor of any one; either, for money due or to become due, or to secure
any person against contingent liability, on behalf of the defendant in
such judgment, or both, if it be in favor of the same person.

SEC. 252. The confession shall be made, assented to, and acknowledged, and judgment given in the same manner, as a confession in an
action pending; besides which, the confession shall be verified by the
oath of the party making it, and shall authorize a judgment to be
given for a particular sum. If it be for money due, or to become due,
it shall state plainly and concisely the facts out of which such indebtedness arose and shall shew that the sum confessed therefore is justly due
or to become due.

SEC. 253. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintifff in the
judgment against a contingent liability, it shall state plainly and concisely the facts constituting such liability, and shall shew that the sum
confessed therefore, does not exceed the same. When judgment is
given so as to "be payable in installments, executions may issue to
enforce the payment of such installments as they become due.l

TITLE XIV.

Of submitting controversy without action.
820. 254. Controversy, may be submitted with- 256. Statement to be filed with the clerk. J ariaout action. diction of court.
255. Statement of the case, and verilication thereof.

Sac. 254. Parties to a question in controversy, which might be the
subject of an action at law in a court of record, with such parties

plaintifffs or defendants; may submit the same to the determination of
such court Without action, as in this title provided.

SEC. 255. The parties as plaintifff and defendant, shall state in
Writing, a case containing the facts upon which the controversy
depends, and subscribe the same in person or by their attornies. Such
statement shall be veriiied by the oaths of the parties, or Where there
is more than one plaintifff or defendant, by at least one of each, to the
effect that the controversy is real, and the proceeding is taken in good
faith to determine the rights of the parties. Where either party to the
controversy is the state, a county or other public corporation therein,
or a. private corporation or minor, the statement of the case may be
subscribed and veriiied by any person who at the time sustains the
relation to such state, corporation, county or minor, as would authorize
the service of a summons upon him. ‘

SEC. 256. The statement shall be filed with the clerk, and from
the date of such filing, the court shall have jurisdiction of the controversy, as if the same were an action pending, after a special verdict
found, and shall proceed to hear and determine the same accordingly.

TITLE XV.

0f the manner of ge'r2'ng and entering judgment.
Sec. 257. Judgment to be entered in journal, 5281. Judgment on demurrer.

manner of entry. 262. When entry of judgment made.
258. If counterclaim exceeds plaintifffs 263. Judgment notwithstanding the verdict.

demand, judgment for defendant. ‘.264. When entry of judgment made, after
259. Judgment in actions for the recov- motion for new trial decided in vacation.

3;-y of personal property. 265. Entry of judgment alter the- time pre260. What entry to state in judgment for scribed.

want of answer.

SEC. 257. All judgments shall be entered by the clerk, subject to

the direction of the court, in the journal; and shall specify clearly the
amount to be recovered, the relief granted, or other determination of

the action. If entered in vacation, the entry shall be entitled and
dated substantially as follows:

STATE or OREGON, g
COUNTY or ————— Court for the County of ————. In vacation, after the
————Term, A. D., 186-. ———— the ———— A. D., 186-,

as the fact may be, and such entry shall have the same effect, as if '

entered in term time.

See. 258. If a counterclaim established at the trial exceed the
plaintifff‘ ’s demand so established, judgment for the defendant shall be
given for the excess; or if it appear that the defendant is entitled to
any other afiirmative relief, judgment shall be given accordingly.

SEC. 259. In an action to recover the possession of personal property, judgment for the plaintifff may be for the possession, or the value
thereof, in case a delivery cannot be had, and damages for the detention thereof. If the property have been delivered to the plaintifff, and
the defendant claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant
may be for a return of the property or the value thereof, in case
a return cannot be had, and damages for taking and withholding

the same.

SEC. 260. When judgment _is given for want of answer, the entry
shall state substantially, that the defendant has been duly served with
the summons, and has failed to answer the complaint. When judgment is given on confession with or without action, on the report of
referees, or on a controversy submitted without action, the entry shall
state in like manner, the confession and assent thereto, the report of
the referees, or agreed ease, as the case may be.

SEC. 261. When a decision has been made sustaining or overruling
a demurrer, unless the party against whom the decision is made, be
allowed to amend or plead over, judgment shall be given for the
plaintifff or defendant as the case may be, for such amount, or relief,
or to such effect, as it appears from the pleading he is entitled to ; but,
if the cause is otherwise at issue upon a question of fact, the court
may order the entry of judgment to be delayed, until such issue he
tried or otherwise disposed of.

SEC. 262. VVhen judgment is given in any of the cases mentioned
in sections 260 and 261, unless otherwise ordered by the court, it shall
be entered by the clerk within the day it is given. Except as in‘ this
section hereinafter provided, when a trial by the court has been had,
judgment shall be entered by the clerk in conformity with the decision,
within two days from the time the same is*filed ; or if the trial he by
jury, judgment shall be given by the court in conformity therewith,
and entered by the clerk within two days from the time the verdict
has been received and in either case within the term at which such
judgment is given:

1. Wllen the court is in doubt what judgment ought to be given,

it may order the question to be reserved for argument or further consideration, and thereupon the entry of judgment shall be delayed, until
judgment be given.

2. When within the time allowed to file a motion for new trial,
either party shall nle a motion for a particular judgment or for judgment
notwithstanding the verdict or decision ; or,

3. When a motion for new trial is filed within the time prescribed,
the entry of judgment shall be thereby delayed until the motion is
disposed of.

4. When upon a trial by the court, its decision is filed in vacation,
the entry of judgment shall be delayed, until the expiration of the
time prescribed, to file a motion for a new trial.

SEC. 263. VVhen it appears from the pleadings, that the court has
not jurisdiction of the subject of the action, or the person of the defendant, or that the facts stated in the pleadings of the plaintifff or defendant as the case may be, do not constitute a cause of action or defense
thereto, and that such objection has not been taken by demurrer or
answer; on motion, judgment shall be given for the plaintifff or defendant as the case may be, notwithstanding the verdict or decision.

SEC. 264. When a motion for new trial, for a particular judgment,
or for a judgment notwithstanding the verdict, is decided in vacation,
the decision shall be in writing, and filed with the clerk. Within tlie
day of such filing, judgment shall be entered by the clerk in conformity
with the decision.

Sec. 265. \Vhen the clerk is unable or omits to enter judgment
within the time prescribed in this title ; if the judgment has been given
in vacation, it may be entered at any time thereafter, of- the date which
it is actually entered; if it has been given in term time, it may be
entered at any time during the term, of the day’s proceedings on which
it should have been entered, or on motion of the party entitled, at any
subsequent term, of the day on which it is actually entered.

TITLE XVI.

Lion of judgment and final record.

8:0. 266. Judgment to be lien from time of 268. Judgment roll.
docketing. 269. When final record ordered.
267. Expiration of lien. when revived.

SEC. 266. Immediately after the entry of judgment in any action,

the clerk shall docket the same in the judgment docket. At any time
thereafter, while an execution might issue upon such judgment, and
the same remains unsatisfied in whole or in part, the plaintifff or in
case of his death his representative may file a certified transcript of the
original docket in the office of the county clerk of any county in this
state. Upon the filing of such transcript, the clerk shall docket the
same in the judgment docket of his office. From the date of docketing
a judgment as in this title provided or the transcript thereof, such judgment shall be a lien upon all the real property of the defendant, within
the county or counties where the same is docketed, or which he may

afterwards acquire therein, during the time an execution may issue
thereon. '

SEC. 267. Whenever, after the entry of judgment a period of five
years shall elapse, without an execution being issued on such judgment,
the lieu thereof shall expire. If afterwards, leave is given to issue
execution thereon, a transcript of the docket of order allowing the
same may be docketed in any other county in the state, in the same
manner as a judgment. From the date of docketing such order or a
transcript thereof, the lieu of the judgment shall begin anew and continue in all respects, as upon the first docketing the same.

SEC. 268. A conveyance of real property or any portion thereof or
interest therein, shall be void as against the lieu, of a judgment, unless
such conveyance be recorded at the time of docketing such judgment,
or the transcript thereof as the case may be, or unless it be recorded
within the time after its execution, provided by law, as between conveyances for the same real property.

SEC. 269. After docketing the judgment, and before the next regular term'of the court, the clerk shall prepare and file in his office the
judgment roll as provided in this ‘section :

1. If the complaint has not been answered by any defendant, he
shall attach together in the order of their filing issuing and entry, the
complaint, summons and proof of service, and a copy of the entry of
judgment. 2

2. In all other cases he shall attach together in like manner the
summons and proof of service, the pleadings, bills of exceptions, all
orders relating to a change of parties, together with a copy of the
entry of judgment, and all other journal entries or orders in any way
involving the merits, and necessarily affecting the judgment.

3. In all cases the clerk shall attach upon the outside of the

judgment roll, a blank sheet of paper, upon which he shall endorse,
the name of the court, the term at which judgment was given, the
names of the parties to the action and the title thereof, for whom

judgment was given, the amount or nature thereof, and the date of
its entry and docketing.

Snc. 270. Instead of the judgment roll prescribed in section 269,
there shall be a final record made of the cause, as provided in
this section: a

1. When in any action, it shall appear that the title to real property or any interest therein, or any easement, franchise or right in or
to the same, is directly determined or aifected by the judgment therein,
on motion of either party, the court shall order that a final record be
made of the cause, and the expense of such record shall be taxed as
other disbursements of the action.

2. In all other actions, on motion of either party, the court shall
order that a final record be made of the cause, at the cost of the party
moving for the same. .

VVhen a final record is ordered, it shall be made by the clerk
within the time prescribed to prepare a judgment roll, by recording
the papers and journal entries, required in such roll, in the order
prescribed therefore.

Sec. 271.

272.
273.

W-I.
L7 5.

276.

§

8%

I.

:§5§:§i§5§§

CHAPTER III.

TITLE I.—0f the emecution.
TITLE ]I.—-Proceedz'ngs after execution.

TITLE '1.
Of the execution.

When judgment may be enforced by
execution.
Diderent kinds of executions.
Ily whom issued. what to contain,
and require.
To what county writ may issue.
How endorsed by sheriff and when
returnable.
When execution issued against the
person.
How person arrested on execution,
imprisoned.

. Execution against property may issue

after death of judgment debtor. except.

. What property liable to execution

and what exempt.
Execution against property how executed.
Same subject.
When garnishee gives sheriff cert.ihcate, how sheriff to proceed.
When personal property claimed by
third person.
Proceedings on such claim.
Same subject.
If indemnified, sheriff shall sell notwithstanding verdict.
When sherifi‘ may leave personal

property in possession of judgment

debtor.

288. Notice of sale on execution, how given.

289. Sales how and where made.

290. When sheriti‘ may adjourn sale.

291. Bill of sale and delivery by slxeritf of personal property.

292. When execution not to issue except by
leave of the court, and how leave obtained.

Conhrmation of sale of real estate, and
proceedings thereon.

294. Who liable for purchase money in case of
eviction of purchaser.

Contribution among joint judgment
debtors.

Real property, sale of, when absolute. and
when subject to redemption.

297. Who may redeem.

298. When lien creditor may redeem from

purchaser.

299. When lien creditor may redeem from redemptioner.

300. When judgment debtor may redeem.

301. Purchaser or redemptiouer, when entitled

to conveyance.

302. Mode of proceeding to redeem.

303. Court may restrain .waste prior to conveyance. '

304. Who entitled to possession from time of

sale to conveyance.

293.

.§

.§

SEC. 271. The party in whose favor a judgment is given, which
requires the payment of money, the delivery of real or personal property, or either of them, may at any time after the entry thereof have a
writ of execution issued for its enforcement, as provided in this title.

SEC. 272. There shall be three kinds of executions; one against

the property of the judgment debtor, another against his person, and
the third for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property,
or such delivery with damages for withholding the same.

SEC. 273. The writ of execution shall be issued by the clerk, and
directed to the sheriff. It shall contain the name of the court, the
names of the parties to the action and the title thereof, it shall substantially describe the judgment, and if it be for money, shall state the
amount actually due thereon, and shall require the sheriff substantially
as follows : .

1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it shall
require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment with interest, out of the
personal property of such debtor, and if suilicient personal property
cannot be found, out of the real property belonging to him on the day
when the judgment was docketed in the county, or at any time
thereafter;

2.’ If it be issued after the death of the judgment debtor, and be
against real or personal property, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy
the judgment with interest out of any property in the hands of the
debtors, [debtor’s ?] personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees,
tenants of real property, or trustees as such.

3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it shall
require the sheriff to arrest such debtor and commit him to the jail of
the county until he shall pay -the judgment with interest, or be
discharged according to law;

4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal
property, it shall require the sheriff to deliver the possession of the
same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and may,
at the same time, require the sheriff to satisfy any costs, charges, damages or rents and profits recovered by the same judgment, out of the
personal property of the party against whom it was rendered, and the
value of the property for which the judgment was recovered to be
specified therein, if a delivery thereof cannot be had ; and if sufficient
personal property cannot be found, then out of the real property, as
provided in the first subdivision of this section, and in that respect it
is to be deemed an execution against property.

SEC. 274. When the execution is against the property of the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff of any county in this state.
When it requires delivery of real or personal property, it shall be
issued to the sheriff of the county where the property or some part

thereof is situated. Executions may be issued at the same time to
different counties.

SEC. 275. The sheriff shall indorse upon a writ of execution, the
time when he received the same, and such execution shall be returnable, within sixty days after its receipt by the sheriff to the clerk's
office from whence it issued. SEC. 276. If the action be one in which the defendant might have
been arrested as provided by section 106, an execution against the
person of the judgment debtor, may be issued to any county within
the state after the return of the execution against his property,

unsatisfied in whole or in part as follows:
1. When it appears from the record that the cause of action is

also a cause of‘ arrest as prescribed in section 106, such execution may

issue of course.
2. When no such cause of arrest appears from the record, such

execution may issue for any of the causes prescribed in section 106,
that may exist at the time of the application therefore, upon leave of

the court or judge thereof.
3. VVhen the defendant has been provisionally arrested in the

action, or an order has been made allowing such arrest, and in either
case the order has not been vacated, such execution may issue

of course.
4. When execution is issued against the person of the defendant

by leave of the court, it shall be applied for and allowed in the manner
provided in section 107 for allowing a writ of arrest, except that the
undertaking need not be for an amount exceeding the judgment. A
defendant arrested on execution, who has not been arrested provisionally, may at any time be discharged from such arrest for the
causes and in the manner provided in sections 128 and 129 for the

discharge of a; defendant who has been provisionally arrested.

SEC. 277. A person arrested on execution shall be imprisoned in
the county jail, and kept at his own expense until satisfaction of the
execution, or his legal discharge, but the plaintifff shall be liable in the
first instance, for such expense as in other cases of arrest, in the same
manner and to the same extent as prescribed in sections 126 and 127.

SEC. 278. Notwithstanding the death of a party after judgment,
execution thereon against his property, or for the delivery of real or
personal property, may be issued and executed in the same manner,

and with the same effect, as if he were still living; but such execution
shall not issue within six months from the granting letters testamentary or of administration upon the estate of such party without
leave of the county court, or judge thereof. '

SEC. 279. All property or right or interest therein of the judgment
debtor, shall be liable to an execution, except as in this section provided.
The following property shall be exempt from execution, if selected and
reserved by the judgment debtor or his agent, at the time of the levy,
or as soon thereafter before sale thereof as the same shall be known

to him, and not otherwise.
1. Books, pictures, and musical instruments, owned by any

person to the value of seventy-five dollars.

2. Necessary wearing apparel owned by any person to the value
of one hundred dollars, and if such person be a householder, for each
member of his family to the value of fifty dollars.

3. The tools, implements, apparatus, team, vehicle, harness or
library, necessary to enable any person to carry on the trade, occupation or profession, by which such person habitually earns his living
to the value of four hundred dollars. Also, sufficient quantity of food
to support such team, if any, for sixty days. The word team in this
subdivision, shall not be construed to include more than one yoke of
oxen, or a pair "of horses or mules, as the case may be.

4. The following property if owned by a householder and in
actual use, or kept for use, by and for his family, or when being
removed from one habitation to another on a change of residence:
Ten sheep, with one year’s fleece, or the yarn or cloth manufactured
therefrom, two cows and five swine ;—household goods, furniture and
utensils, to the value of three hundred dollars. Also food sufficient to
support such animals, if any, for three months, and provisions actually
provided for family use, and necessary for the support of such householder and family for six months.

5. The seat or pew occupied by a householder, or his family, in
a place of public worship.

-6. All property of the state, or any county, incorporated city,
town, or village therein, or of any other public or municipal corpora121011 of like character.

7. No article of property, or if the same has been sold or
exchanged, then neither the proceeds of such sale, or the article

received in exchange therefore shall be exempt from execution, issued
on a judgment recovered for its price.

S130. 280. When the writ of execution is against the property of
the judgment debtor, it shall be executed by the sheriff as follows:

1. If property has been attached, he shall endorse on the execution, and pay to the clerk forthwith, the amount, if any, of the proceeds of sales of perishable property, or debts due the defendant
received by him, sufhcient to satisfy the judgment.

2. If the judgment is not then satisfied, and property has been
attached and remains in his custody, he shall sell the same or sufficient
thereof to satisfy the judgment.

3. If then any portion of the judgment remains unsatisfied, or if
no property has been attached or the same has been discharged, he
shall levy on the property of the judgment debtor suilicient to satisfy
the judgment.

4. Property shall be levied on in like manner, and with like effect,
as similar property is attached, as provided in sections 147, 148 and
150, omitting the filing of the certificate provided for in section 149.

5. Until a levy, property shall not be affected by the execution.
When property has been sold or debts received by the sheriff on execution, he shall pay the proceeds thereof, or sufficient to satisfy the

judgment, to the clerk by the day which the writ is returnable.

6. When property has been attached, and it is probable that such
property will not be sufficient to satisfy the judgment, the execution
may be levied on other property of the judgment debtor, without
delay. If after satisfying the judgment, any property or the proceeds
thereof, remain in the custody of the sheriff, he shall deliver the same
to the judgment debtor. °

SEC. 281. In the case of property in the possession of, or owing
from any gamishee, mentioned in section 150 the sheriff shall proceed

as follows:
1. If it appear from the certificate of the garnishee, that he is

owing a debt to the judgment debtor which is then due, if such debt
is not paid by such garnishee to the sheriff on demand, he shall levy
on the property of the garnishee for the amount thereof, in all respects
as if the execution was against the property of the garnishee. But if
such debt he not then due, the sheriff shall sell the same according to
the certificate as other property.

2. If in like manner, it appear that the judgment debtor has

rights or shares in the stock of the garnishee as provided in section
150, the sheriff shall sell the same according to the certificate as
other property.

3. If in like manner, it appear, that the garnishee has other personal property of the judgment debtor in his possession, and the same
has not been bailed to such garnishee for a period then unexpired,
unless the same be delivered to the sheriff on demand, he shall levy
upon the same wherever he may find it. But if such property is in the
possession of such garnishee upon a bailment then unexpired, the
sheriff shall sell the same, or the interest of the judgment debtor
therein according to the certificate as other property.

SEC. 282. When a sheriff with an execution levies upon any of the
personal property mentioned in subdivision 3, of section 147, and if
the same is not delivered, paid, or transferred to him at the time, and
the garnishee furnish him the certificate required in section 150, he
shall proceed thereafter in reference to such property as provided in
section 281. Such property may be delivered paid or transferred to
the sheriff at the time of levy or suiiicient thereof to satisfy the execution, and the sheritl"s receipt to the person, association or corporation
as the case may be shall be a sufficient discharge therefore.

SEC. 283. When personal property shall be seized by virtue of any
execution, and any person other than the defendant, shall claim such
property or any part thereof, and shall give notice thereof in Writing,
the sheriff may summon from his county six persons, qualified as jurors
between the parties, to try the validity of the claim, giving five days’
notice of the time and place of the trial to the plaintifff in the execution or his attorney.

SEC. 284. The sheriff, at the request of either party, shall subpoena
witnesses and compel them to attend and give testimony, and he shall
administer the necessary oaths to the jurors and witnesses. On the
trial the defendant and the claimant may be examined by the plaintifff
as witnesses, and the verdict of such jury being rendered in Writing,
and’ signed by the foreman, shall be a full indemnity to the sheriff;
proceeding in accordance therewith, but shall not preclude the claimant
from maintaining an action at law for the recovery of the possesion of
such property, or for damages for taking the same.

' SEC. 285. The claimant at any time before the jury retire, may Withdraw his claim, or the plaintifff in the writ, may within the same time
direct the sheriff to discharge the property from the execution, and

thereupon, the trial shall proceed no further. The costs and disbursements of the trial shall be paid by the party against whom the verdict
is given, or if no verdict be given, as in this section provided, then by
the party who withdrew his claim, or directed the property to be discharged, as the case may be. The sheriff shall collect all such costs
and disbursements, if not paid immediately, by levying on the property of the party liable for them, as on execution, and pay the same,
to the jurors, witnesses and others entitled to receive them.

SEC. 286. Notwithstanding the verdict of the jury be for the
claimant, yet the sheriff shall proceed to sell the property seized in
satisfaction of the execution, if the plaintifff tender to him a written
undertaking, excecuted by two or more good and sufficient sureties,
residents of the state, and householders or freeholders therein, in
double the value of the property, to the effect that he will indemnify
the sheriff against all damages and costs, which he may sustain in
consequence of the seizure and sale of such property, and moreover,
that he will pay to the claimant of such property, all damages which
he may sustain in consequence of such seizure and sale. If such
undertaking be given it shall be returned by the sheriff with the
execution.

SEC. 287. When the sheriff shall levy upon personal property by
virtue of an execution, he may permit the judgment debtor, to retain
the same, or any part thereof in his possession until the day of sale,
upon the defendant executing a written undertaking to the sheriff
with sufficient surety, in double the value of such property, to the
effect that it shall be delivered to the sheriff at the time and place of
sale, and for non-delivery thereof, an action may be maintained upon
such undertaking by the sheriff or the plaintifff in the execution; but
the sheriff shall not thereby be discharged from his liability to the
plaintifff for" such property.

SEC. 288. Before the sale of property on execution, notice thereof
shall be given as follows : .

1. In case of personal property, by posting written or printed
notice of the time and place of sale, in three public places of the county
where the sale is to take place, not less than ten days successively;

2. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice, particularly describing the property, for four weeks successively, in three
public places of the county, where the property is to be sold, and

publishing a copy thereof once a week, for the same period, in a newspaper of the county, if there be one, or if there be none, then in a
newspaper published nearest to the place of sale; or in the newspaper
published by the state printer.

SEC. 289. All sales of property upon execution shall be made by
auction, between nine o’c1oek in the morning andfour o'clock in the
evening. After sufficient property has been sold to satisfy the execution, no more shall be sold. Neither the officer holding the execution,
nor his deputy, shall become a purchaser or be interested in any
purchase at such sale. When the sale is of personal property capable
of manual delivery and not in the possession of a third person, association, or corporation, it shall be within view of those who attend the
sale, and be sold in such parcels as are likely to bring the highest
price, and when the sale is of real property, and consisting of several
known lots or parcels, they shall be sold separately or otherwise as is
likely to bring the highest price, or _when a portion of such real
property is claimed by a third person, and he requires it to be sold

separately, such portion shall be sold separately. Sales of real prop-"'

erty shall be made at the court house door.

SEC. 290. If at the time appointed for the sale, the sheriff’ should
be prevented from attending at the place appointed, or being present
should deem it for the advantage of all concerned to postpone the sale
for want of purchasers, or other suilieient cause, he may postpone the
sale not exceeding one week, next after the day appointed, and so from
time to time for the like cause, giving notice of every adjournment by
public proclamation, made at the same time. The sheriff for like
causes, may also 'adjourn the sale from time to time, not exceeding

thirty days beyond the day at which the writ is made returnable, with
the consent of the plaintiff endorsed upon the writ.

SEC. 291. W'hen the purchaser of any personal property capable of
manual delivery, and not in the possession of a third person association

or corporation, shall pay the purchase money, the sheriff shall deliver‘

to him the property, and if desired shall give him a bill of sale containing an acknowledgment of the payment. In all other sales of personal
property, the sheriff shall give the purchaser a bill of sale with the
like acknowledgement.

SEC. 292. WheneV'er, after the entry of judgment, a period of five
years shall elapse, without an execution being issued on such judgment

thereafter an execution shall not issue except as in this section provided:
1.‘ The party in whose favor a judgment is given, shall file a

motion with the clerk of the court where the judgment is entered, for
leave to issue an execution. The motion shall state the names of the

parties to the judgment, the date of its entry, and the amount claimed
to be due thereon,_or the particular property-of which the possession
was thereby adjudged to such party. remaining undelivered. The
motion shall be subscribed and verified in like manner as a complaint
in an action at law.

2. At any time after nling such motion, the party may cause a
summons to be served on the judgment debtor in like manner and with
like effect, as in an action at law. In case such judgment debtor be
dead, the summons may be served upon his representatives, by publication as in case of a non-resident, or by actual service of the summons.

3. The summons shall be substantially the same as in an action
at law, but instead of the notice therein required, it shall state the
amount claimed or the property sought to be recovered, in the manner
prescribed in subdivision 1 of this section.

4. The judgment debtor, or in case of his death, his representatives, may file an answer to such motion, within the time allowed to
answer a complaint in an action at law, alleging any defense to such
motion which may exist. If no answer be filed within the time prescribed, the motion shall be allowed of course. The moving party may
demur or reply to the answer. The party opposed to the motion may
demur to the same or the reply. The pleadings shall be subscribed
and verified, and the proceedings conducted as in an action at law.

5. The word representatives in this section, shall be deemed to
include, any or all of the persons mentioned in subdivision 2 of section
273, in whose possession property of the judgment debtors, may be,
which is liable to be taken and sold or delivered in satisfaction of the
execution, and not otherwise.

6. The order shall specify the amount for which execution is to
issue, or the particular property, possession of which is to be delivered;
it shall be entered in the journal and docketed as a judgment and a
roll thereafter prepared and filed, or a final record made of the proceedings, as the case may be, in the same manner as a judgment.

SEC. 293. Whenever real property is sold on execution, the previsions of this section shall apply to the subsequent proceedings:
1. The plaintifff in the writ of execution shall be entitled, on

motion therefore, to have an order confirming the sale, at the term
next following the return of the execution, or if it be returned in term
time then at such term; unless the judgment debtor, or in case of his
death his representative, shall file with the clerk ten days before such
term, or if the writ be returned in term time, then five days after the
return thereof, his objections thereto.

2. If such objections be filed, the court shall notwithstanding
allow the order confirming the sale, unless on the hearing of the
motion it shall satisfactorily appear, that there were substantial irregularities in the proceedings concerning the sale, to the probable loss or
injury of the party objecting. In the latter case the court shall disallow the motion,'and direct that the property be resold in whole or
in part as the case may be, as upon an execution received of that date.

3. Upon the return of the execution, the sheriff shall pay the
proceeds of the sale to the clerk, who shall then apply the same, or so
much thereof as may be necessary, in satisfaction of the judgment. If
an order of resale be afterwards made and the property sell for a

greater amount to any person, other than the former purchaser, the a

clerk shall first repay to such purchaser, the amount of his bid, out of

the proceeds of the latter sale.
4. Upon a resale, the bid of the purchaser at the former sale,

shall be deemed to be renewed and continue in force, and no bid shall
be taken except for a greater amount. If the motion to confirm be
not heard and decided at the term at which it is made it may be continued and heard and determined before the judge, or at any term
thereafter. An order confirming a sale, shall be a conclusive determination, of the regularity of ‘the proceedings concerning such sale,
as to all persons, in any other action, suit or proceeding whatever.

5. If after the satisfaction of the judgment, there be any proceeds
of the sale remaining, the clerk shall pay such proceeds to the judgment debtor, or his representative, as the case may be, at any time
before the order is made, upon the motion to confirm the sale, provided
such party file with the clerk a waiver of all objections made or to be
made to the proceedings concerning the sale; but, if the sale be confirmed, such proceeds-shall be paid to such party of course, otherwise
they shall remain in the custody of the clerk, until the sale of the
property has been disposed of.

SEC. 294. If the purchaser of real property sold on execution, or
his successor in interest, be evicted therefrom in consequence of the

reversal of the judgment, he may recover the price paid with interest
and the costs and disbursements of the suit by which he was evicted,

from the plaintifff in the writ of execution.

SEC. 295. When property liable to an execution against several persons is sold thereon, and more than a due proportion of the judgment
is levied upon the property of one of them, or one of them pays without a sale, more than his proportion, he may compel contributions from
the others; and when a judgment is against several, and is upon an
obligation or contract of one of them as security for another, and the
surety pays the amount, or any part thereof, either by sale of his property or before sale, he may compel re-payment from the principal. In
such cases, the person so paying or contributing, shall be entitled to
the benefit of the judgment to enforce contribution or re-payment, if
within thirty days after his payment, he file with the clerk of the court
where the judgment was rendered, notice of his payment and claim to
contribution or re-payment; upon filing such notice, the clerk shall
make an entry thereof in the margin of the docket where the judgment
is entered.

SEC. 296. Upon a sale of real property, when the estate is less than

a leasehold of two , years unexpired term, the sale shall be absolute.
In all other cases such property shall be subject to redemption, as hereinafter provided, in this title. At the time of sale the sheriff shall
give to the purchaser, a certificate of the sale, containing:

1. A particular description of the property sold.

2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel.

3. The whole price paid.

4. When subject to redemption, it shall be so stated. The matters contained in such certificate shall be substantially stated in the
sheriff’ s return of his proceedings upon the writ.

SEC. 297. Property sold subject to redemption, as provided in the
last section, or any part thereof separately sold, may be redeemed by
the following persons or their successors in interest:

1. The judgment debtor, or his successor in interest, in the
whole or any part of the property separatelysold.

2. .A creditor having a lien by judgment, decree, or mortgage
on any portion of the property, or any portion of any part thereof,
separately sold; subsequent in time to that on which the property
was sold.

The persons mentioned in the 2d subdivision of this section, after
having redeemed the property are to be termed redemptioners.

SEC. 298. A lien creditor may redeem the property within sixty
days from the date of the order confirming the sale, by paying the
amount of the purchase money with interest at the rate of two per
cent. per month thereon from the time of sale, together with the
amount of any taxes which the purchaser may have paid thereon, and
if the purchaser be also a creditor having a lien prior to that of the
redemptioner, the amount of such lien with interest.

SEC. 299. Iflthe property be so redeemed, any other lien creditor
may within sixty days from the last redemption, again redeem it on
paying the sum paidmn the last redemption with interest at the rate
of two per cent. per month thereon from the date of the last preceding
redemption in addition, together with the amount of any taxes, which
the last redemptioner may have paid thereon, and unless his lien be
prior to that of such redemptioner, the amount of such lien with
interest. The property may be again, and as often as any lien creditor
or redemptioner is disposed, redeemed from the last previous redemptioner, within sixty days from the date of the last redemption, on paying the sum paid on the last previous redemption, with interest at the

rate of two per cent. per month thereon, from the date of such previous
redemption, together with the amount of any taxes paid thereon by
such last redemptioner, and the amount of any liens held by such last
redemptioner, prior to his own with interest.

SEC. 300. The judgment debtor or his successor in interest may
redeem the property at any time prior to the coniirmation of sale, on
paying the amount of the pure ase money, with interest at the rate of
two per cent. per month thereon from the date of the sale, together
with the amount of any taxes which the purchaser may have paid
thereon after the purchase. But if the judgment debtor do not redeem
until after the confirmation of the sale, thereafter he shall redeem
within the time and upon the terms allowed to a lien creditor, and not

otherwise.

SEC. 301. If no redemption be made within sixty days from the
confirmation of the sale, the purchaser shall be entitled to a conveyance from the sheriff, or if so redeemed, whenever sixty days shall
have elapsed, and no other redemption has been made, the time for
redemption shall have expired, and the last redemptioner shall be

entitled to a conveyance from the sheriff. If the judgment debtor
redeem" at any time before the time for redemption expires, the effects
of the sale shall be terminated, and he shall be restored to his estate.

Sac. 302. The mode of redeeming shall be as provided in this
section: '

1. The person seeking to redeem, shall give the purchaser or
redemptioner, as the case may be, two days notice of his intention to
apply to the sheriff for that purpose. At the time and place specified
in such notice, such person may redeem by paying to the sheriff the
sum required. The sheriff shall give the person redeeming a certificate as in case of sale on execution, adding therein the sum paid on
redemption, from whom redeemed, and the date thereof. A party
seeking to redeem shall submit to the sheriff the evidence of his right
thereto, as follows:

1. Proof that the notice required by this section, has been given
to the purchaser or redemptioner or waived.

2. If he be a lien creditor, a copy of the docket of the judgment,
or decree under which he claims the right to redeem, certified by the
clerk of the court where such judgment or decree is docketed, or if he
seek to redeem upon a mortgage, the certificate of the record thereof.

' 3. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish his claim,
verified by the allidavit of himself or agent. An affidavit by himself
or agent showing the amount then actually due on the judgment,
decree or mortgage.

4. If the redemptioner or -purchaser, have a lien prior to that of
the lien creditor seeking to redeem, such redemptioner or purchaser
shall submit to the sheriff the like evidence thereof and of the amount
due thereon, or the same may be disregarded.

When two or more persons apply to the sheriff to redeem at the
same time, he shall allow the person having the prior lien to redeem
first and so on. The sheriff shall immediately pay the money over to
the person from whom the property is redeemed, if he attend at the
redemption, or if not at any time thereafter when demanded. Where
a sheriff shall wrongfully refuse to allow any person to redeem, his
right thereto shall not be prejudiced thereby, and upon the submission
of the evidence and the tender of the money to the sheriff as herein
provided, he may be required by order of the court or judge thereof to

allow such redemption.

SEC. 303. Until the expiration of the time allowed for redemption,

the court or judge thereof may restrain the commission of waste on
the property, by order granted with or without notice, on the application of the purchaser or judgment creditor, but it shall not be deemed
waste for the person in possession of the property at the time of sale,
or entitled to possession afterwards, during the period allowed for
redemption, to continue to use it in the same manner in which it was
previously used; or to use it in the ordinary course of -husbandry; or
to make the necessary repairs to buildings thereon; or to use wood or
timber on the property therefore; or for the repair of fences; or for
fuel in his familywhile he occupies the property.

Size. 304. The purchaser from the day of sale, until a resale, or a
redemption, and a redemptioner from the day of his redemption until
another redemption shall be entitled to the possession of the property

purchased or redeemed, unless the same be in the. possession of a
tenant holding under an unexpired lease, and in such case, shall be
entitled to receive from such tenant, the rents or the value of the use

and occupation thereof, during the same period.

_ TITLE II.
Proceedings after execulion.

Sac. 315. Order to examine judgment debtor. 309. Order to examine garnishee, and proceed306. Examination of judgment debtor, ings thereon.

and proceedings thereon. 310. What earnings of a judgment debtor ex307. Restraining order against judgment empt.

debtor. 511. What odicers not liable to answer as gar-l
308. When judgment debtor may be 9.1- nishee.

rested.

SEC. 305. After the issuing of an execution against property, and
upon proof by the affidavit of the plaintifff‘ in the writ, or otherwise,
to the satisfaction of the court or judge thereof, that the judgment
debtor has property liable to execution, which he refuses to apply
towards the satisfaction of the judgment, such court or judge may by
an order require the judgment debtor to appear and answer under
oath concerning the same, before such court or judge, or before a
referee, appointed by such court or judge, at a time and place specified
in the order.

SEC. 306. On the appearance of the judgment debtor, he may be
examined on -oath concerning his property. His examination if

required by the plaintifff in the writ, shall be reduced to writing, and
filed with the clerk by whom the execution was issued. Either party
may examine witnesses in hisibehalf, and if by such examination it
appear, that the judgment debtor has any property liable to execution,
the court or judge before whom the proceeding takes place, or to
whom the report of the referee is made, shall make an order requiring
the judgment debtor to apply the same in satisfaction of the judgment,
or that such property be levied on by execution, in the manner and
with the effect, as provided in title  of this chapter; or both, as may
seem most likely to affect the object of the proceeding.

SEC. 307. At the time of allowing the order prescribed in section
305 or at any time thereafter pending the proceeding, the court or
judge may make an order restraining the judgment debtor from selling,
transferring or in any manner disposing of any of his property liable
to execution, pending the proceeding. Disobedience to any order or
requirement authorized by sections 305, 806, and 307 on the part of
the judgment debtor may be punished as for a contempt.

SEC. 308. Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the
judgment debtor, as provided in the last two sections, the court or
judge may, upon proof by affidavit of a party or otherwise, to his
satisfaction, that there is danger of the debtor leaving the state, or
concealing himself therein, and that there is reason to believe he has
property which he unjustly refuses to apply to such judgment, issue a
warrant requiring the sheriff of any county where such debtor may be,
to arrest him and bring him before the court or judge; upon being
brought before the court or judge, he may be examined on oath, and
if it then appear that there is danger of the debtor leaving the state,
and that he has property which he has unjustly refused to apply to
such judgment, he may be ordered to enter into an undertaking with
one or more sureties, that he will from time to time attend before the
court or judge as may be directed, and that he will not, during the
pendency of the proceedings, dispose_ of any portion of his property
not exempt from execution. In default of entering into such undertaking, he may be committed to the jail of the county by warrant
of the judge.

SEC. 309. Whenever the sheriff with an execution against the

property of the judgment debtor shall apply to any person or officer
mentioned in subdivision 3 of section 147, for the purpose of levying
on any property therein mentioned, such person or officer shall forthwith give to the sheriff a certificate in the manner prescribed in section
150. If such person or officer refuse to do so, or if the certificate be
unsatisfactory to the plaintifff in the writ, he may in like manner, have
the order prescribed in such section against such person or oilicer.
Thereafter the proceeding upon such order shall be conducted in the

manner prescribed in title XIV. of chapter I. from section 160 to section 169 inclusive.

SEO. 310. The earnings of a judgment debtor for personal services,
at any time Within thirty days next preceding the judgment against
a garnishee, shall not be included in such judgment, when it shall be
made to appear by the aiiidavit of the judgment debtor, or otherwise,

that such earnings are necessary for the use of a family, supported
wholly or partly by his labor.

SEC. 311. No state or county treasurer, sheriff, clerk, constable, or
other public officer, shall be liable to answer as garnishee for monies
in his possession as such public oilicer, belonging to, or claimed by
any judgment debtor.

CHAPTER IV.

Of actions at law in particular cases.

SEC. 312. The mode of proceeding in the actions provided for in
this chapter, from the commencement to the determination thereof,
and thereafter until satisfaction of the’ judgment be had, shall be
according to the general provisions of this code upon the subject of
actions at law, except as herein otherwise or specially provided.

mi

TITLE I.—Aetions to recover the possession of real property.
TITLE II.—Aetions for nuisance, waste, and trespass on real property.

TITLE III_.—Aetions on ojicial undertakings, and for fines and forfeitures.
TITLE IV .—Actions by and against public corporations and ojicers.
TITLE V.—Aetions to vacate charters, and letters patent, and to determine

the right to an ojice or franchise.
TITLE VI.—Aetions by and against executors and administrators.

TITLE I.

Actions to recover possession of real property.

SEC. 313. Who may bring such action, and 3220. Orderto make survey of the property.

against whom. 321. Same subject.
314. When landlord may he made del'end- 322. Action not to be prejudiced by alienation
ant in place of tenant. of person in possession.
315. What to he pleaded in complaint. 323. Mortgages cannot maintain action against
316. Defendant not to be allowed to give mortgagor.
in evidence certain matters unless 324. Action by tenant in common or for dower,
pleaded in the answer. Judgment what must be shown.
against conclusive against landlord. 3525. Action against lessee, on failure to pay
317. What the jury shall find by their ver- 1'80?»dict. 326. When judgment conclusive, and upon
318. What damages may be recovered, W110!!!and when the value of pg,-mane“; 327. Possession not to be affected by order alimprovements may be set off 1°“'i“£5 new U53]against such damages. 328. Admeasuremeut of dower after judgment.

319. Verdict, when right of possession expires after commencement of action.

SEC. 313. Any person who has a legal estate in real property, and

a present right to the possession thereof, may recover such possession,
with damages for withholding the same by an action at law. Such
action shall be commenced against the person in the actual possession
of the property at the time, or if the property be not in the actual
possession of any one, then against the person acting as the owner
thereof.

SEC. 314. A defendant who is in actual possession, may for answer
plead, that he is in possession only as tenant of another, naming him,
and his place of residence, and thereupon, the landlord if he apply
therefore, shall be made defendant in place of the tenant, and the action
shall proceed in all respects as if originally commenced against him.
If the landlord do not apply to be made defendant within the day the
tenant is allowed to answer, thereafter he shall not be allowed to, but.
he shall be made defendant if the plaintifff require it. If the landlord
be made defendant on motion of the plaintifff he shall be required to
appear and answer, within ten days from notice of the peudency of the
action and the order making him defendant, or such further notice as
the court or judge thereof may prescribe.

SEC. 315. The plaintifff in his complaint, shall set forth the nature
of his estate in the property, whether it be in fee, for life, or for a term
of years, and for whose life, or the duration of such term, and that he
is entitled to the possession thereof, and that the defendant wrongfully
withholds the same from him to his damage such sum as may be
therein claimed. . The property shall be described with such certainty
as to enable the possession thereof to be delivered, if a recovery be had.

SEC. 316. The defendant shall not be allowed to give in evidence
any estate in himself, or another in the property, or any license or
right to the possession thereof unless the same be pleaded in his
answer. If so pleaded the nature and duration of such estate, or

license or right to the possession, shall be set forth with the certainty
and particularity required in a complaint. If the defendant does

not defend for the whole of the property, he shall specify for what
particular part he does defend. In an action against a tenant the
judgment shall be conclusive against a landlord, who has been made
defendant in place of the tenant, to the same extent as if the action

had been originally commenced against him.

SEC. 317. The jury by their verdict shall find as follows:
1. If the verdict be for the plaintifff, that he is entitled to the

possession of the property described in the complaint, or some part
thereof, or some undivided share or interest in.either, and the nature
and duration of his estate in such property, part thereof, or undivided
share or interest in either, as the case may be. ~

2. If the verdict be for the defendant, that the plaintifff‘ is not
entitled to the possession of the property described in the complaint,
or to such part thereof, as the defendant defends for, and the estate in
such property or part thereof, or license or right to the possession of
either, established on the trial by the defendant, if any; in effect as
the same is requiredto be pleaded. .

SEC. 318. The plaintifff shall only be entitled to recover damages
for withholding the property for the term of six years next preceding
the commencement of the action, and for ‘any period that may elapse
from such commencement, to the time of giving a verdict therein,
exclusive of the use of permanent improvements made by the defends
ant. When permanent improvements have been ~made upon the
property by the defendant, or those under whom he claims, holding
under color of title adversely to the claim of the plaintifff, in good faith,
the value thereof at the time of trial, shall be allowed as a set-off
against such damages. ‘

SEC. 319. If the right of the plaintifff to the possession of the
property expire after the commencement of the action, and before the
trial, the verdict shall be given according to the fact, and judgment
shall be given only for the damages.

SEC. 3:20. The court or judge thereof, on motion, and after notice
to the adverse party, may, for cause shown, grant an order allowing
the party applying therefore to enter upon the property in controversy,
and make survey and admeasurement thereof, for the purposes of the

action.

SEC. 321. The order shall describe the property, and a copy thereof
shall be served upon the defendant, and thereupon the party may enter
upon the property, and make such survey and admeasurement, but if
any unnecessary injury be done to the premises, he shall be liable

therefore.

SEC. 322. An action for the recovery of the possession of real
property against a person in possession, cannot be prejudiced by any
alienation made by such person, either before or after the commencement of the action; but if such alienation be made after the commencement of the action, and the defendant do not satisfy the judgment
recovered for damages; for withholding the possession, such damages
may be recovered by action against the purchaser.

SEC. 323. A mortgage of real property shall not be deemed a conveyance, so as to enable the owner of the mortgage to recover possession of the real property without a foreclosure and sale according

to law.

Sec. 324. In an action for the recovery of dower before admeasurement, or by a tenant in common of real property against a co-tenant,
the plaintifff shall show in addition to the evidence of his right of
possession, that the defendant either denied the plaintifffs right, or did
some act amounting to such denial.

SEC. 325. When in case of a lease of real property, and the failure
of tenant to pay rent, the landlord has a subsisting right to re-enter
for such failure, he may bring an action to recover the possession of
such property, and such action is equivalent to a demand of the rent,
and a re-entry upon the property. But, if at any time before judgment
in such action, the lessee or his successor in interest,‘ as to the whole
or a part of the property, pay to the plaintifff, or bring into court the
amount of rent then in arrear with interest, and the costs of the action,
and perform the other covenants or agreements on the part of the
lessee, he shall be entitled to continue in the possession, according to
the terms of the lease.

SEC. 326. In an action to recover the possession of real property
the judgment therein, shall be conclusive as to the estate in such
property and the right to the possession thereof, so far as the same is
thereby determined, upon the party against whom the same is given,
and against all persons claiming from, through, or under such party,
after the commencement of such action, except as in this section
provided. When service of the summons is made by publication and
judgment is given for want of answer, at any time within two years
from the entry thereof, the defendant or his successor in interest as to
the whole or any part of the property, shall upon application to the
court or judge thereof, be entitled to an order vacating the judgment
and granting him a new trial, upon the payment -of the costs of

the action.

SEC. 327. If the plaintifff has taken possession of the property
before the judgment is set aside and a new trial granted as provided in

section 326, such possession shall not be thereby affected in any way,
and if judgment be given for the defendant in the new trial, he shall
be entitled to restitution by execution in the same manner as if he
were plaintifff.

SEC. 328. In an action to recover the possession of real property by
a tenant in dower, or his successor in interest, if such estate in dower
has not been admeasured before the commencement of the action, the
plaintifff shall not have execution to deliver the possession thereof,
until the same be admeasured, as follows:

1. At any time after the entry of judgment in favor of the
plaintifff, he may upon notice to the adverse party, move the court for
the appointment of referees, to admeasure the dower out of the real
property, of which the possession is recovered by the action. The
court shall allow such motion, unless it appear probable on the hearing
that a partition of such property cannot-be made without prejudice to
the interests of the other owners. In the latter case, the court shall
disallow the motion, and thereafter the plaintifff shall only proceed for
partition or sale of such real property as provided in title V. of
chapter V.

2. If the court allow the motion‘, thereafter the proceedings shall
be conducted as provided in such title.

At any time after the confirmation of the report of the referees, the

‘ plaintifff may have execution for the delivery of the possession of the
property according to the admeasurement thereof, and for the damages

recovered, if any, for withholding the same, if such damages remain
unsatisfied.

3. If the motion for admeasurement, be made at the term at
which judgment was given, the notice thereof shall be served on the

adverse party such time as the court by general rule, or special order
may prescribe.

SEC. 329. In an action at law for the recovery of the possession of
real property, if either party claim the property as a donee of the
United States, under the act of Congress, approved, .September
27th, A. D., 1850, commonly called the Donation law, or the acts
amendatory thereof, such party from the date of his settlement
thereon, as provided in said acts, shall be deemed to have a legal
estate in fee in such property, to continue upon the condition ‘that he
perform the conditions required by such acts, which estate is unconditional and indefeasible after the performance of such conditions. In

such action, if both plaintifff and defendant claim title to the same
real property, by virtue of settlement under such acts, such settlement
and the performance of the subsequent conditions, shall be conclusively
presumed, in favor of the party having or claiming under the elder
patent certificate, or patent as the case may be, unless it appear upon
the face of such certificate or patent, that the same is absolutely void.

TITLE II.

Actions for nuisance, waste, and trespass on real property.

Size. 330. Private nuisance, and action therefore. ‘ 333. Sureties an undertaking when to justify.
When warrant allowed to abate it. 334. Action for waste. and judgment therein.
331. How warrant issued, and mode of 335. Actions for trespass in particular cases,

proceeding under. and of judgment therein.
332. When defendant may have stay of 336. Same subject.
warrant.

SEC. 330. Any person vvhose property is affected by a private
nuisance, or Whose personal enjoyment thereof, is in like manner
thereby alfected, may maintain an action at law for damages therefore.
If judgment be given for the plaintifff in such action, he may, in
addition to the execution to enforce the same, on motion, have an
order, allowing a warrant to issue to the sheriff, to abate such nuisance.
Such motion must be made at the term at which judgment is given,
and shall be allowed of course, unless it appear on the hearing that
the nuisance has ceased, or that such remedy is inadequate to abate or
prevent the continuance of the nuisance, in which latter case the
plaintifff may proceed in equity to have the defendant enjoined.

SEC. 331. If the order be made, the clerk shall thereafter at any
time- Within six months, when requested by the plaintifff, issue such
Warrant directed to the sheriff, requiring him forthwith to abate the
nuisance at the expense of the defendant, and return the Warrant as
soon thereafter as may be, with his proceedings endorsed thereon.
The expense of abating the nuisance may be levied by the sheriff on
the property of the defendant, and in this respect the warrant is to be

deemed an execution against property.

SEC. 332. At any time before the order is made or the warrant
issues, the defendant may on motion to the court or judge thereof,

have an order to stay the issuing of such Warrant, for such period as
may be necessary not exceeding six months, to allow the defendant to
abate the nuisance himself, upon his giving an undertaking to the
plaintifffin a sufficient amount, with one or more sureties to the satisfaction of the court or judge thereof, that he will abate it within the
time and in the manner specified in such order.

SEC. 333. If the plaintifff is not notified of the time and place of
the application for the order provided for in section 332, the sureties
therein provided for, shall justify as bail upon arrest, otherwise such
justification may be omitted unless the plaintifff require it. If such
order be made and undertaking given, and the defendant fails to abate
such nuisance within the time specified in such order, thereafter, at
any time Within six months, the warrant for the abatement of the
nuisance, may issue, as if the same had not been stayed.

SEC. 334. If a guardian, tenant in severalty or in common for life
or for years, of real property, commit waste thereon, any person
injured thereby, may maintain an action at law for damages therefore,
against such guardian or tenant; in which action there may be judgment, for treble damages, forfeiture of the estate of the party committing or permitting the waste, and of eviction from the property. But
judgment of forfeiture and eviction shall only be given in favor of the
person entitled to the reversion, against the tenant in possession, when
the injury to the estate in reversion, is determined in the action, to be
equal to the value of the tenant’s estate or unexpired term,-er to have

been done or suffered in malice.

SEC. 335. Wlienever any person shall cut down, girdle or otherwise
injure, or carry off, any tree, timber, or shrub on the land of another
person, or on the street or highway, in front of any person’s house,
village, town or city lot, or cultivated grounds, or on the commons, or
public grounds, of any village, town, or city, or on the street or highway in front thereof, without lawful authority, in an action by such
person, village, town or city against the person committing such
trespasses or any of them, if judgment be given for the plaintifff, it
shall be given for treble the amount of damages claimed, or assessed

therefore, as the case may be. 3

SEC. 336. If upon the trial of such action, it shall appear that the
trespass was casual or involuntary, or that the defendant had probable
cause to believe that the land on which such trespass was committed,

was his own, or that of the person in whose service, or by whose
direction the act was done, or that such tree or timber was taken from
uninclosed woodland, for the purpose of repairing any public highway
or bridge, upon the land or adjoining it, judgment shall only be given
for single damages.

. TITLE III.
Actions on ojicial undertakings, and for fines and forfeitures.

880. 337. Omcial undertakings, to whom 341. Judgment cannot be given against surety

deemed a security. for more than the amount of the pen1%. “'ho may maintain action thereon. alty. or so much thereof as remains an339. When leave must be obtained before recovered.

action can be commenced. 342. Who may maintain action for lines and
340. Judgment no bar toaction for another forfeitures.

delinquency.

SEC. 337. The official undertaking, or other security of a public
oiiicer to the state, or to any county, city, town or other municipal or
public corporation of like character therein, shall be deemed a security
to the state, or to such county, city, town, or other municipal or
public corporation as the case’ may be, and also, to all persons severally
for the omcial delinquencies, against which it is intended to provide.

SEC. 338. When a public oiiicer by oiiicial misconduct or neglect
of duty, shall forfeit his official undertaking or other security, or
render his sureties therein liable upon such undertaking or other
security ; any person injured by such misconduct or neglect, or who is
by law entitled to the benefit of the security, may maintain an action at
law thereon in his own name, against the officer and his sureties, to
recover the amount, to which he may by reason thereof, be entitled.

S120. 339. Before an action can be commenced by a plaintiii‘, other
than than the state, or the municipal or public corporation named in

the undertaking or other security, leave shall be obtained of the court
or judge thereof where the action is triable. Such leave shall be
granted upon the production of a certified copy of the undertaking or
other security, and an atiidavit of the plaintifff or some person on his
behalf, showing the delinquency. But if the matters set forth in the
aiiidavit, be such, that if true, the party applying would clearly not be

entitled to recover in the action, the leave shall not be granted. If it
does not appear from the complaint that the leave herein provided for
has been granted, the defendant on motion shall be entitled to judgment of non-suit, if it does, the defendant may controvert the allegation, and if the issue be found in his favor, judgment shall be given
accordingly.

SEC. 340. A judgment in favor of a party for one delinquency shall

not preclude the same or another party from maintaining another action
on the same undertaking or other security for another delinquency.

SEC. 341. In an action upon an official undertaking or other security, if judgments have already been recovered against the surety
therein, other than by confession, equal in the aggregate to the penalty
or any part thereof of such undertaking or other security, and if such
recovery be established on the trial, judgment shall not be given
against such surety for an amount exceeding such penalty, or such
portion thereof as is not already recovered against him.

SEC. 342. Fines and forfeitures may be recovered by an action at
law in the name of the officer or person to whom they are by law
given, or in the name of the oiiicer or person who by law is authorized
to prosecute for them.

SEC. 343. When an action shall be commenced for a penalty, which
by law is not to exceed a certain amount, the action may be commenced for that amount, and if judgment be given for the plaintifff, it
may be for such amount or less in the discretion of the court, in
proportion to the offense.

SEC. 344. A recovery of a judgment for a penalty or forfeiture by
collusion between the plaintifff and defendant, with intent to save the
defendant, wholly or partially, from the consequences contemplated by
law, in case when the penalty or forfeiture is given wholly or partly to
the person who prosecutes, shall not bar the recovery of the same by
another person.

SEC. 345. Fines and forfeitures not specially granted or otherwise
appropriated by law, when recovered, shall be paid into the treasury
of the _propcr county. Whenever by the provisions of law, any property real or personal shall be forfeited to the state, or to any oliicer
for its use, the action for the recovery of such property may be commenced in any county where the defendant may be found, or where
such property may be.

TITLE IV.
Actions by and against public corporations, and ojiccrs.

‘Sac. 346.‘ How actions may be maintained as How pleadings or public corporations veragainst public corporations and for . itied.

whgg cgngeg, , ‘ 349. How judgment against public corporation
347. Actions against public corporations. satisfied:

and what causes. 350. Actions by and against public oilleers,

when maintained, and for what causes.

SEC. 346. An action at law may be maintained by any county,
incorporated town, school district, or other public corporation of like
character in this state, in its corporate name, and upon a cause of
action accruing to it, in its corporate character, and not otherwise, in‘
either of the following cases: 1. Upon a contract made with such public corporation. .

2. Upon a liability prescribed by law in favor of such public
corporation. '

3. To recover a penalty or‘ forfeiture given to such public
corporation.

4. To recover damages for an injury to the corporate rights or
property of such public corporation.

Sac. 347. An action may be maintained against a county or other
of the public corporations mentioned or described in section 346, either
upon a contract made by such county or other public corporation in its
corporate character, and within the scope of its authority, or for an
injury to the rights of the plaintifff, arising from some act or omission
of such county or other public corporation.

SEC. 348. In such actions the pleadings of the public corporation,
shall be verified by any of the officers representing it in its corporate
capacity, in the same manner as if such officer were a defendant in the
action, or by the agent or attorney thereof, as in ordinary actions.

SEC. 349. If judgment be given for the recovery of money or
damages against a county or other public corporation, mentioned or
described in section 346, no execution shall issue thereon for the
collection of such money or damages, but such judgment in such
respect, shall be satisfied as follows:

1. The party in whose favor such judgment is given, may, at any
time therea&er, when an execution might issue on a like judgment
against a private person, present a certified transcript of the docket
thereof, to the officer of such county or other public corporation, who
is authorized to draw orders on the treasurer thereof.

¢

2. On the presentation of such transcript, such officer shall draw
an order on such treasurer for the amount of the judgment, in favor
of the party for whom the same was given. Thereafter such order
shall be presented for payment, and paid, with like eEect and in like
manner, as other orders upon the treasurer of such county or other
public corporation.

3. The certified transcript herein provided for, shall not be
furnished by the clerk, unless at the time an execution might issue on
such judgment if the same were against a private person, nor until
satisfaction of the judgment in respect to such money or damages be
acknowledged as in ordinary cases. The clerk shall include in the
transcript a memorandum of such acknowledgment of satisfaction and
the entry thereof. Unless the transcript contain such memorandum
no order upon the treasurer shall issue thereon.

SEC. 350. An action at law may be maintained by and against any
public officer in this state in his otlicial character, when as to such
cause of action, such officer does not represent any of the public corporations mentioned or described in section 346, for any of the causes
specified in such section and section 147. If judgment be given
against any such officer in such action, it may be enforced against him
personally, and the amount thereof shall be allowed to him in his

otlicial accounts.

TITLE V.

Actions to avoid charters, letters patent, and to prevent the usurpation of cm
ojice or franchise, and determine the right thereto.

Sec. 351. Scire facias and quo warrauto abol- 357. Duty of prosecuting attorney as to comished. mencing actions.
352. Action against public or private cm» 358. When relatot-’s right may he pleaded and
poration, to be commenced on the determined by the action.
direction of Governor. ' 359. If judgment be given in favor of relator,
353. Action to annul the existence of eor- what he may do.
pomdon. 360. Relator after judgment, may have action
354. Action for the usurpation of oice or for damages.
franchise. 351- A¢“0l|l Igtinst several persons claiming
355. Action to vacate or annul letters oilice or franchise.
patent. ' 13$. Judgment against usnrper. Court may
356. Who to prosecute actions, pleadings tine him.

by whom verified, how leave grant- 363. Judgment against corporation.
ed, and who deemed coplaintifff 364. How judgments enforced.

with state.
SEC. 351. The writ of scire facias, the writ of qua warranto, and

proceedings by information in the nature of qua warranto are abolished,
and the remedies heretofore obtainable under these forms may be
obtained by action at law in the mode prescribed in this title.

SEC. 352. An action at law may be maintained in the name of the
state, whenever the governor thereof shall so direct, against a corporation either public or private for the purpose of avoiding the act of
incorporation, or the act of renewing or modifying its corporate
existence, on the ground that such act or either of them was procured
upon some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a material fact by
the persons incorporated, or some of them, or with their knowledge
and consent, or for annulling the existence of such corporation, when
the same has been formed under any general law of this state therefore,
on the ground that such incorporation, or any renewal or modification
thereof, was procured in like manner.

SEC. 853. An action at law may be maintained in the name of the
state against a corporation, other than a public one, on leave granted
by the court or judge thereof where the action is triable, for the
purpose of avoiding the charter‘ or annulling the existence of such
corporation, whenever it shall:

1. O&'end against any of the provisions of the acts, or either of
them, creating, renewing or modifying such corporation, or the provisions of any general law under which it became incorporated; or,

2. Violate the provisions of any law, by which such corporation
forfeits its charter, by abuse of its powers; or i A

3. Whenever it has forfeited its privileges or franchises, by

failure to exercise its powers; or
4. Whenever it has done or omitted any act which amounts to

a surrender of its corporate rights, privileges, and franchises; or
5. Whenever it exercises a franchise or privilege not conferred

upon it by law.

Sac. 354. An action at law may be maintained in the name of the
state, upon the information of the prosecuting attorney, or upon
the relation of a private party against the person offending, in the
following cases:

1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully
hold, or exercise any public office, civil or military, or any franchise
within this state, or any office in a corporation either public or private,
created or formed by or under the authority of this state; or

2. When any public oiiicer, civil or military, has done, or suffered
an act‘ which, by the provisions of law, makes a forfeiture of his
oiiice; or

3. When any association or number of persons act within this

state, as a corporation, without being duly incorporated:

Sm. 355. An action at law may be maintained in the name of the
state for the purpose of vacating or annulling letters -patent,‘ issued by
the state, against the person to whom the same were issued, or those
claiming under him, as to the subject matter thereof, in the following
cases:

1. When such letters patent were issued by means of some
fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a material fact by the person
to whom the same were issued, or with his knowledge and consent; or

2. When such letters patent were issued through mistake, or in
ignorance of a material fact; or

3. When the patentee, or those claiming under him, have done
or omitted an act, in violation of the terms and conditions on which
the letters patent were issued, or have by any other means forfeited
the interest acquired under the same.

830. 356. The actions provided for in this title, shall be_ commenced and prosecuted by the prosecuting attorney of the district
where the same are triable. When the action is upon the relation of
a private party, as allowed in section 354, the pleadings 'on,bel_1alf of
the state shall be verified by» such relator, as if he were the plaintifff in
the action, or otherwise as provided in section 79, in all other cases such
pleadings shall be verified by the prosecuting attorney in like manner,
or otherwise as provided in such section. When an action can only
be commenced by leave as provided in section 353, such leave shall be
granted when it appears by aiiidavit that the acts or omissions in such
section specified have been done or suffered by such corporation.
When an action is commenced on the information of a private person
as allowed in section 354, having an interest in the question, such
party for all the purposes of the action, and as to the effect of any
judgment that may be given therein, shall be deemed a co-plaintifffwith

the state.

SEC. 357. When directed by the Governor as prescribed in section
352, it shall be the duty of the prosecuting attorney to commence the
action therein provided for accordingly. In all other actions provided
for in this title it shall be the duty of the proper prosecuting attorney

to commence such action, upon leave given where leave is required, in
every case of public interest, Whenever he has reason to believe that a
cause of action exists and can be proven, and also for like reasons in
every case of private interest only, in which satisfactory security is
given to the state to indemnify it against the costs and expenses that
may be incurred thereby.

SEC. 358. ‘Whenever an action is brought against a person for any
of the causes specined in subdivision 1 of section 354, the prosecuting
attorney, in addition to the statement of the cause of action, may also
separately set forth in the complaint the name of person rightfully
entitled to the oiiice or hanchise, with a statement of the facts constituting his right thereto. In such case judgment may be given upon
the right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the person, so
alleged to be entitled, or only upon the right of the defendant, as
justice may require.

SEC. 359. If judgment be given upon the right of the person, so
alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such person, he
shall be entitled to the possession and enjoyment of such franchise, or
to take upon himself the execution of such oiiice, after qualifying
himself therefore as required by law, and to demand and’ receive the
possession of all the books, papers and property of whatever nature
belonging thereto.

SEC. 360. If judgment be given upon the right, and in favor of the
person, so alleged to be entitled, he may afterwards maintain an action
to recover the damages which he may have sustained by reason of the
premises. In such action the defendant may be arrested and held to
bail in the same manner and with like effect as in other actions at law
where the defendant is subject to arrest.

SEC. 361. Several persons may be joined as defendants in an action
for the causes specified in subdivision 1 of section 354, and in such
action their respective rights to. such office or franchise may be
determined.

SEC. 362. When a defendant whether a natural person or a
corporation, against Whom an action has been commenced for any of
the causes specified in subdivision 1 of section 354, is determined to
be guilty of usurping, or intruding into, or unlawfully holding or
exercising any oiiice or franchise, judgment shall be given that such
defendant be excluded therefrom. The court may also in its discretion

impose a fine upon the defendant not exceeding two thousand dollars,

SEC. 363. If it be determined that a corporation, against which an
action has been commenced pursuant to this title, has forfeited its
corporate rights, privileges and franchises, judgment shall be given

that such corporation be excluded therefrom, and that the corporation
be dissolved.

SEC. 364. If judgment be given against a corporation, the effect of
which is,-that such corporation ceases to exist, or whereby any letters
patent are determined to be vacated or annulled, it shall be the duty
of the prosecuting attorney to cause a copy of the judgment roll to be
filed in the office of the Secretary of State.

SEC. 364. A judgment given in any action provided for in this
title, in respect to costs and disbursements may be enforced by execution as a judgment which requires the payment of money, and in all
other respects obedience thereto may be enforced by attachment of the
body of the defendant, or if the defendant be a corporation the body

of any or all of the officers or members of such corporation refusing
or neglecting obedience thereto.

TITLE VI.
Actions by and against executors or administrators.

Ste. 365. What causes of action do not survive. 371. Executor of his own wrong not liable, as

 

366. What canon‘ of aetiondo survive. such.
36?’. When death ensues from an injury. 372. Executor of executor no authority over
368. Representatives regarded as one per- estate. .
son in an action. 33. When actions may be commenced.

369. Judgment on failure to answer, when 374. Claim must be drst presented to executor
evidence of assets. or administrator.

370. Inventory as evidence, and how it 375. When provisional remedies allowed
may be contradicted or avoided. against executors or administrator.

 

SEC. 365. A cause of action arising out of an injury to the person,
dies with the person of either party, except as provided in section 367.
But the provisions of this title shall not be construed so as to abate:

the action mentioned in section 38, or to defeat or prejudice the right
of action given by section 33;

SEC. 366. All other causes of action, by one person against another,
whether arising on contract or otherwise, survive to the personal
representatives of the former, and against the personal representatives

of the the latter. Where the cause of action survives as herein provided, the executors or administrators may maintain an action at law
thereon against the party, against whom the cause of action accrued,
or after his death against his personal representatives.

SEC. 367. When the death of a person is caused by the wrongful
act or omission of another, the personal representatives of the former
may maintain an action at law therefore against the latter, if the former
might have maintained an action, had he lived, against the latter, for
an injury caused by the same act or omission. buch action shall be
commenced within two years after the death, and the damages therein
shall not exceed five thousand dollars, and the amount recovered, if
any, shall be administered as other personal property of the deceased

person.

830. 368. In an action against several executors or administrators,
they shall all be considered as one person representing their testator
or intestate, and judgment may be given and execution issued against
all of them who are defendants in the action, although the summons
be served only on part of them, in the same manner and with like
effect as if served on all, except as provided in the next section.

SEC. 369. ‘When a judgment is given against an executor or
administrator for want of answer, such judgment is not to be deemed
evidence of assets in his hands, unless it appear, that the complaint
alleged assets, and that the summons was served upon him.

SEC. 370. In an action against executors or administrators, in which
the fact of their having administered the estate of their testator or
intestate, or any part thereof, is put in issue, and the inventory of the
property of the deceased returned by them, is given in evidence, the
same may be contradicted or avoided by evidence:

1. That any property has been omitted in such inventory, or was
not returned therein at its full value, or that since the return thereof
such property has increased in value:

2. That such property has perished or been lost, without the
fault of such executors or administrators; or that it has been fairly
and duly sold by them, at a less price than the value so returned; or
that, since the return of the inventory, such property has deteriorated
in value. In such action the defendants cannot be charged for any
things in action, specified in their inventory, unless it appear that they
have been collected, or with due diligence might have been.

SEC. 372. No person is liable to an action as executor of his own
wrong, for having taken, received, or interfered with the property of a
deceased person; but is responsible to the executors or administrators
of such deceased person, for the value of all property so taken or
received, and for all injury caused by his interference, with the estate
of the deceased.

SEC. 372. An executor of an executor, has no authority as such to
commence or maintain an action or proceeding, relating to the estate
of the testator of the first executor, or to take any charge or control

thereof.

SEC. 373. An action may be commenced against an executor or
administrator at any time after the expiration of six months from the
granting of letters testamentary or of administration, and until the
final settlement of the estate and discharge of such executor or administrator from the trust, and not otherwise.

SEC. 374. Such action shall not be commenced until the claim of
the plaintifff has been duly presented to such executor or administrator, and by him disallowed. If such claim is presented after the
expiration of such period of six months, the executor or administrator
in an action therefore, shall only be liable to the extent of the assets in
his hands at the time the summons is served upon him.

SEC. 375. In an action against an executor or administrator as
such, the provisional remedies of arrest and attachment shall not be
allowed, on account of the acts of his testator or intestate; but for his
own acts as such executor or administrator, such remedies shall be
allowed for the same causes, in like manner, and with like effect as in
actions at law generally.

CHAPTER V.

General provisions.

Sac. 376. For what causes a suit in equity may 384. Change of place of trial.

he maintained. 385. What provisions of chapter I . shall apply
377. Mode of proceeding in a suit. to suits. ' '
378, Limitati.on of units, _ 386. Service of the summons.
379, In whom namg suit to be prosecuted, 387. Service of the summons by publication.
380, Plaintiffs and defendants, who may 388. What objections if not taken by demurrer
be. - or answer may be made on the trial.’
38!. Same subject. 389. Counter claim of defendant.
382. What sections of title III. of chapter 390. What causes of suit ma)’ be united
I. shall apply to suits. 391. Arrest and bail in suits.

383. Where suits commenced and tried.

TITLE I.—0f issues, their trial, and the mode thereof.

TITLE II.— Of the mode of enforcing a decree.

TITLE III.—Injunction.

TITLE IV .——Qf the foreclosure of liens upon real or personal property.
TITLE V.—-Suits for the partition of real property.

TITLE VI.—Suits by and against executors, administrators, legatees, heirs,

, or devisees.
TITLE VII.—Suits to declare void, or dissolve the marriage contract.
TITLE  to determine adverse claims to real property, and to
cancel a patent wrongfully issued therefore.

SEC. 376. The enforcement or protection of a private right, or the
prevention of, or redress for an injury thereto, shall be obtained by a
suit in equity, in all cases Where there is not a plain, adequate and
complete remedy at law; and may be obtained thereby, in all cases
where courts of equity have been used to exercise concurrent jurisdiction With courts of law, unless otherwise specially provided in this
chapter. In a suit the party complaining shall be known as the

-plaintifff and the adverse party as the defendant.

SEC. 377. Bills of Revivor and bills of review of whatever nature,
cross bills, exceptions for insulhciency, impertinencc, or irrclevancy are
abolished; but a decree in equity may be impeached and set aside,
or suspended or avoided, or carried into execution, by an original suit.

The mode of proceeding in a suit from the commencement to the
determination thereof, and thereafter until satisfaction or performance
of the decree be had, shall be as provided in this chapter and not
otherwise. _

SEC. 378. A suit shall only be commenced within the time limited
to commence an action as provided in title. II. of chapter I. of this
code. A. suit for the determination of any right or claim to, or
interest in real property, shall be deemed within the limitation provided for actions for the recovery of the possession of real property.
In a suit upon a new promise, fraud or mistake, the limitation shall
only be deemed to commence from the making of the new promise, or
the discovery of the fraud or mistake.

SEC. 379. Every suit shall be prosecuted in the name of the real
party in interest, except as in this section otherwise provided. An
executor or an administrator, a trustee of an express trust, or a person
expressly authorized to sue by statute, may sue without joining with
him the person for whose benefit the suit is prosecuted. A trustee of
an express trust within the meaning of this section, shall be construed
to include a person with Whom, or in whose name a contract is made
for the benefit of another.

SEC. 380. All persons having an interest in the subject of the suit
and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintifffs,
except as in this chapter otherwise provided. Any person may be
made a defendant, who has or claims an interest in the controversy
adverse to the plaintifff, or who is a necessary party to a complete

determination or settlement of the questions involved therein.

SEC. 381. Of the parties to the suit, those who are united in
interest must be joined as plaintifffs or defendants; but if the consent
of any one who should have been joined as plaintifff, cannot be
obtained, he may be made a defendant the reason thereof being stated
in the complaint; and when the question is one of a common or

general interest of many persons, or when the parties are very numerous, and it may be impracticable to bring them all before the court,
one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of the whole.

SEC. 382. Sections 28, 30, 31, 32, 36, 37, 39, and 40, of title III. of
chapter I., shall apply to suits in equity.

SEC. 383. Suits in equity in the following cases shall be commenced and tried in the-country where the subject of the suit or some

part thereof is situate:

1. For the partition of real. piopeny.

2. For the foreclosure of alien frfvén‘ real property.

3. For the determination of an adverseicflaim, estate, or interest
in real property, or the specific performance an agreement in relation thereto.  ' f In all other cases, the suit shall be commenced and ;’tried_ in the
county in which the defendants or either of them reside, or; may: be
found at the commencement of the suit, or if none of the defendants
reside in this state, the same may be commenced and tried in {any
county in the state, which the plaintiff may designate in his complaint.

Sac. 384. The court may change the place of trial on the motion
of either party to the suit, where it appears from the affidavit of such
party; either, '
1. That the suit has not been commenced in the proper county ; or,
2. That the judge.is a party to, or directly interested in the event

of the suit; and, '
3. That the motion is not made for the purpose of delay.

Such change may be taken at any time before answer and not otherwise, and in the manner, and with like effect as in an action.

SEC. 385. The provisions of chapter I from and inclusive of title
V. of such chapter, to and inclusive of title XIII. thereof, shall apply to

and govern the mode of proceeding in suits except as otherwise or

specially provided in this chapter.

SEC. 386. When there is more than one defendant in the suit,
service of the summons may be made by serving only one copy of
the complaint on such of the defendants as the plaintifff may designate by a direction endorsed on such copy.

Site. 387. In addition to the cases enumerated in the subdivisions
of section 55, service of the summons may be made by’ publication in
the following cases:

1. When the subject of the suit is real or personal property in this
state, and the defendant has, or claims a lien or interest actual or contingent therein, or the relief demanded consists Wholly or partly in
excluding the defendant from any lien or interest therein ;

'2. When the suit is for divorce, in the cases provided for in title
VII. of this chapter. SEC. 388. The objection to the jurisdiction of the court, or that the
complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of suit, it
ot taken by demurrer or answer may be made on the trial.

Sec. 389. The counterclaim of. thevdefendant shall be one upon
which a suit might be maint.ainec_l,by the defendant against the plaintifff
in the suit; and in adgl_iti'gn,to the cases specified in .the subdivisions
of section 72, it is sufhcient if it be connected with the subject of the
suit. Sections.-.§§;_.8_.9-, 90, and 91, shall not apply to suits in equity.

SEC. _890.:°3_'.l2h°e. plaintiff in a suit may unite several causes of suit in
the sa's3:e_bbmplaint, when they all arise out of:

"L ' The same transaction, or transactions connected with the same
subject of suit. .
' 2. Contract express or implied, or
3. Injuries with or without force to property.
4. Claims to real property, or any interest therein, with or without an account for the rents and profits thereof‘. 5. Claims to personal property or any interest therein, with or
without an account for the use thereof. .
6. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract, or by operation
of law. '

But the causes of suit so united, must all belong to one of these
classes, and must affect all the parties to the suit, and not require different places of trial, and shall be separately stated.

SEC. 391. The writ of ne exeat-is abolished, and instead thereof the
plaintifff in a suit, may have the defendant arrested and held to bail in

like manner and with like effect as provided in title XIII. of chapter I.
of this code. A cause of arrest in a suit, shall be the same as those

‘ specified in section 106, so far as the same may exist, and not otherwise.

TITLE I.
Of issues, their trial, and the mode thereof.

Sec. 392. Title I. of chapter II. shall apply to 398. Decree of dismissal before trial, and ofsuits. When jury may be formed. feet thereof.
393. How and when testimony taken. 399. Same subject aner trial. '
394. Conduct of the trial. 400. Titles XII., XIII. and XIV. of chapter
395. Objections to depositions when and II. shall apply to suite.

how made. 401. When decree may be given in vacation.
396. Same subject. The entry, roll and final record thereof.
397. Titles VI. and X. of chapter II. shall

apply to suits. '

SEC. 392. The provisions of title I. of chapter II. of this code shall
apply to suite, except as in this title otherwise or specially provided.

Both issues of law and fact shall be tried by the court, unless referred.
°Whenever it becomes necessary or proper to inquire of any fact by the
verdict of a jury, the court may direct a statement thereof, and that a
jury be formed to inquire of the same. The statement shall be tried
as an issue of fact in an action, and the verdict may be read as evidence,
on the trial of the suit.

SEC. 393. As soon as the pleadings are completed, and if the suit
be at issue on a question of fact, the partiesmay take the -depositions
of witnesses to be offered in evidence on the trial. N o deposition shall
be taken after the expiration of three months from the filing of -the
last pleading, unless by order of the court or judge thereof‘, enlarging
the time therefore, and such court or judge may by order prescribe a
shorter time than three months for the taking of testimony. The testimony of a witness shall not be heard except by‘ deposition, unless for
special reasons by order of the court orjudge thereof, naming the witness and made within the time allowed to take his deposition.

SEC. 394. When the suit is called for trial, the trial shall proceed
in the order prescribed in subdivisions 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, of section 194,
unless the court for special reasons otherwisedirects.

Sec. 395. Upon the trial either party may object to the reading of
a deposition or any part thereof, when offered by the other, because
the witness is incompetent, or the testimony is so, or irrelevant and not
otherwise. All other objections to depositions, shall be taken by written exceptions filed with the clerk within ten days from the closing of
the testimony and before the first day of the term next following
thereto, and may be heard and decided by the court or judge thereof
at any time thereafter, before the trial of the suit.

SEC. 396. When it appears from the deposition that a party was
present at the examination of a witness, such party shall not be heard
to object to anything in or concerning _ such deposition not excepted to
at the time of taking the same, except the objections allowed to be
taken on the trial as provided in section 393. When any part of the
examination of a witness is excluded for any reason, so much of the
cross examination as relates to the same matter is excluded also.

SEC. 397. The provisions of title VL and X. of chapter II. of this
code shall apply to suits, but the final determination of the rights of
the parties thereto, is called a decree, and any intermediate determination is called an order.

SEC. 398. A decree dismissing a suit, may be given against the
plaintifff in any of the cases specified in subdivisions 1, 2 and 3 of
section 243, except the last clause of such subdivision 3. Such decree
is a determination of the suit, but shall not have the eifect to bar
another suit for the same cause, or any part thereof.

Size. 399. Whenever upon the trial it is determined that the plaintifff is not entitled to the relief claimed or any part thereof, a decree
shall be given dismissing the suit, and such decree shall have the eifect
to bar another suit for the same cause or any part thereof‘, unless such
determination be on account of a failure of proof on the part of the
plaintiii‘, in which case, the court may’ on motion of such plaintifff,
give such decree without prejudice to another suit by the plaintifff for
the same cause or any part thereof.

8120. 400. The provisions of title XII, also of title XIII. of chapter
II. of this code, from and inclusive of section 247, to and inclusive of
section 250, shall apply to suite. The provisions of title XIV. of such

chapter, shall apply to controversies which might be the subject
of a suit.

SEC. 401. When upon the submission of a suit, the court is unadvised as to what decree oughtto be given therein, it may reserve the
case for further consideration, and may decide the same and give such
decree in vacation, by nling the same with the clerk. When a decree
is given in a suit, unless otherwise ordered by the court, it shall be
entered by the clerk within the day it is given. Sections 257, 258,
260, 261 and 265 of this code shall apply to suits. The provisions of

title XVI. of chapter II. of this code shall apply to decrees and the
iinal record or roll thereof.

TITLE II.
Of the mode of enforcing a decree.

Ste. 402. When decree requiring the fperform- 403. Chapter III. shall apply to suits, so far as
ance of a particular act, equivalent applicable.
thereto. When order or decree may

be enforced by punishment of party.

SEC. 402. A decree requiring a party to make a conveyance,
transfer, release, acquittance, or other like act within a period therein

specified, shall, if such party do not comply therewith, be deemed and

taken to be equivalent thereto. The court or judge thereof may enforce
an order or decree in a suit, other than for the payment of money, by

punishing the party refusing or neglecting to comply therewith, as for
a contempt.

SEC. 403. The provisions of chapter III. of this code shall apply
to the enforcement of decrees, so far as the nature of the decree may
require or admit of it; but the mode of trial of an issue of fact in a
proceeding against a garnishee shall be according to the mode of trial
of such issue in a suit.

TITLE III.
I7y'unctz'on.

SIG. 404. Definition of. and how permanent in- 407. When defendant may be restrained during
junction enforced. the pendency of the suit.
405. Allowance of injunction. 408. Allowance of injunction after answer.
' 406. Service of the order allowing the in- . 409. Motion to vacate or modify injunction.
junction. ‘

SEC. 404. An injunction is an order requiring a defendant in a suit
to refrain from a particular act; it is only allowed as a provisional
remedy, and when a decree is given enjoining a defendant, such decree
shall be effectual and binding on such defendant without other proceeding or process, and may be enforced if necessary as provided in
section 402.

SEC. 405. An injunction may be allowed by the court or judge
thereof at any time after the commencement of the suit and before
decree. Before allowing the same, the court or judge, shall require of
the plaintifff an undertaking with one or more sureties, to the effect
that he will pay all costs and disbursements that may be decreed to
the defendant, and such damages, not exceeding an amount therein
specified, as he may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the same
be wrongful or without sufficient cause.

SEC. 406; The‘ undertaking and affidavits, if any, upon which the
injunction is allowed, shall be filed with the clerk. The order may be
served as a summons, and returned to the clerk, with the proof of
service endorsed thereon; except, that the service shall be made upon
the defendant personally. The order may be filed with the clerk at
once, and shall be deemed to be served upon the defendant from the

date of its allowance, if it appear therefrom, that the defendant
appeared before the- court or judge at the allowance thereof.

SEC. 407. When it appears by the complaint that the defendant is
entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part thereof‘,
consists in restraining the commission or continuance of some act, the
commission or continuance of which, during the litigation, would
produce injury to the plaintifff; or when it appears by affidavit that
the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring
or suffering to be done, some act in violation of the plaintifffs rights,
concerning the subject of the suit, and tending to render the decree
ineffectual; or when it appears by affidavit, that the defendant
threatens, or is about to remove or dispose of his property or any part
thereof with intent to delay or defraud his creditors; an injunction
may be allowed to restrain such act, removal, or disposition.

SEC. 408. An injunction shall not be allowed after the defendant
has answered, except upon notice, but in such case the defendant may
be restrained until the decision of the court or judge allowing; or
refusing the injunction ; and before answer, if the court or judge deem
it proper that the defendant should be heard before allowing an
injunction, an order may be made requiring the defendant to shew
cause at a specified time and place why the injunction should not be
allowed ; and in the meantime the defendant may be restrained.

SEC. 409. If the injunction be allowed without notice, the defendant may, at any time after answer and before trial, apply, upon notice,
to the court or judge thereof to vacate or modify the same. The
application may be made upon affidavits in addition to the answer, and
if so the plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits or other evidence,
in addition to those upon which the injunction was allowed. If upon
the hearing of the motion it satisfactorily appears that the injunction

should not have been allowed, either in whole or in part, it shall be .

vacated or modified accordingly.

TITLE IV.

Of the foreclosure of liens upon real or personal property.

Ste. 410. Liens upon real or personal property, 411. In such suit, who must be made defendhow foreclosed. Decree in case ants, and who may be at the option of
personal obligation given for the the plaintiffl',or by the order of the court.

debt.

Ste. 412. Where two or more liens upon the 417. Nature of decree where debt payable in

same property, nature of decree. instalments, some of which not due.
413. How decree enforced. 418. If before sale defendant pay to the clerk
414. Property sold upon a decree of [ore amount of debt and costs proceedings to

closure, how redeemed. cease. Court to determine value of in-,
415, when proceeds of sale not claimed, stalments not due. Provisions of this

to be put at interest. title not to afect other remedy in regard
416. Suit. for foreclosure cannot be main- to P0130031 P1'°P°1"Ytained, during pendency of action

for the debt.

SEC. 410. A lien upon real or personal property, other than that
of a judgment or decree, Whether created by mortgage or otherwise
shall be foreclosed and the property adjudged to be sold to satisfy the
debt secured thereby, by a suit. In such suit in addition to the decree
of foreclosure and sale, if it appear that a promissory note or other
personal obligation for the payment of the debt, has been given by the
mortgagor or other lien debtor, or by any other person as principal or
otherwise, the court shall also decree a recovery of the amount of such
debt against such person or persons as the case may be, as in the case
of an ordinary decree for the recovery of money.

SEC. 411. Any person_ having a lien subsequent to the plaintifff
upon the same property or any part thereof, or who has given a
promissory note or other personal obligation for the payment of the
debt or any part thereof, secured by the mortgage or other lien which
is the subject of -the suit, shall be made a defendant in the suit, and
any person having a prior lien may be made defendant at the option
of the plaintifff, or by the order of the court when deemed necessary.

SEC. 412. When it is adjudged that any of the defendants have a
lien upon the property, the court shall make a like decree in relation
thereto, and the debt secured thereby as if such defendant were a
plaintifff in the suit; and when a. decree is given foreclosing two or
more liens upon the same property or any portion thereof in favor
of different persons not united in interest. Such decree shall determine and specify the order of time, according to their priority, in
which the debts secured by such liens shall be satisfied out of the
proceeds of the sale of the property.

SEC. 413. The decree may be enforced by the execution as _an
ordinary decree for the recovery of money except as in this section

otherwise or specially provided :
1. When a decree of foreclosure and sale is given, an execution

may issue thereon against the property adjudged to be sold. If the
decree is in favor of the plaintifff only, the execution may issue as in
ordinary cases, but if it be in favor of different persons, not united in
interest, it shall issue upon the joint request of such persons, or upon
the order of the court or judge thereof on the motion of either of them.

2. "When the degree is also against the defendants or any one of
them in person, and the proceeds of the sale of the property upon
which the lien is foreclosed is not suiiicient to satisfy the decree, as the
sum remaining unsatisfied, the decree may be enforced by execution
as in ordinary cases. Vfhen in such cases the decree is in favor of
different persons not united in interest, it shall be deemed a separate
decree as to such persons and may be enforced accordingly.

SEC. 414. A decree of foreclosure shall have the effect to bar the
equity of redemption, and property sold on execution issued upon a.
decree may be redeemed in like pianner and with like effect, as property sold on an execution issued on a judgment, and not otherwise.

SEC. 415. 4 When any of the proceeds of the sale remains with the
clerk unclaimed by the person who is entitled to the same for the
period of two months, the court or judge thereof shall direct that the
same be put at interest by the clerk, subject to the order of the court,

for the benefit of such person, his representatives, or assigns.

SEC. 416. During the pendency of an action at. law, for the recovery of a debt secured by any lien mentioned in section 410, a suit cannot be maintained for the foreclosure of such lien, nor thereafter,
unless judgment be given in such action that the plaintifff recover such
debt or some part thereof, and an execution thereon against the property of the defendant in the judgment, is returned unsatisfied in whole

or in part.

8150. 417. 4 VVhen a suit is commenced to foreclose a lien, by which
any debt is secured, which debt is payable in instalments either of
interest or principal, and any of such instalments is not then due, the
court shall decree a foreclosure of the lien, and may also decree a sale
of the property for the satisfaction of the whole of such debt, or so
much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the instalment then due
with costs of suit; and in the latter case the decree of foreclosure as
to the remainder of the property, may be enforced by an order ‘of sale
in whole or in part, whenever default shall be made in the payment of
the instalments not then due.

SEC. 418.‘ If beforea decree is given the amount then due with the
costs of suit is brought into court and paid to the clerk, the suit shall
be dismissed, or if the same be done after decree and before sale, the
effect of the decree as to the amount then due and paid, shall be terminated, and the execution if any have issued be recalled by the clerk.
When an instalment not due is adjudged to be paid, the court shall
determine and specify in the decree what sum shall be received in satisfaction thereof, which sum may be equal to such instalment or otherwise, according to the present value thereof. The provisions of this
title, as to liens upon personal property, are not to be construed, so as
to exclude a person having such , lien, from any other remedy or right,

in regard to such property.

1 TITLE V.
Suits for the partition of real property.

Ste. 419. Who may maintain a suit for par- 435. In case such liens exist court to appoint

' tition. referee, to ascertain the amount due
no. 3 Complaint, what it shall contain. thereon.
4.21. What lien creditors may be made de- 436. Plaintiff to serve notice on such lien credfendants, and upon what share lien itors to appear before referee, and make
‘continues after partition. proof in relation thereto
4%.: 8_u1nmons,l1ow directed. 487. Duties of such referee.
423. Upon whom summons may be served i 438. 3 ‘Report of such referee may be excepted
- by publication. ' to, notice to absent or unknown lien
4%. Answer, what to contain. creditors.
.425 ,Bights of the parties may be put in 439. Effect of confirmation of report of such
issue, and in case of sale, title first referee.
A to be ascertained. 440. Distribution of the proceeds of sale, how
426. _ When order of sale may be made, in- decreed.
stead of decree of partition. 441. When party to the suit may be required
427. How referees to make partition. ‘ to exhaust other securities before dis498. ‘Court may set aside or confirm, re- ‘ tribution of proceeds of sale.
. _port of referees; when confirmed, 442. Proceedings to determine amount of
J"eH‘ect of. liens, and rights of parties to funds paid
 7Who not affected thereby. into court, not to delay or affect certain
41!}. Expenses of referees. parties.
431. when order of sale may be made, 443. Proceeds of sale to be distributed by
‘upon report of referees. referees if directed by the court, other432. In case of partial sale, how estate Wise t0 be paid int0 court.
_, for life of years set-off. 444. When suit to continue after payment of
433; ‘Before making order of sale, lien proceedsinto court, and proceedings
' creditors to be made parties. ' th0|‘0iD434. When reference ordered to ascertain 445- S813 by 1‘°f°1‘¢35 130“? Widelien creditors by judgment 0; ae. 446. Court may direct sale to be made on credit

CF68.

447. Mortgages and other securities, how 458. When party entitled to a share, or an intaken by referees. cumbrancer becomes purchaser, receipt
448. Estate for life or years how dis- may be taken for the amount.

posed of. 459. When and what proceeds of sale to be in449. Compensation for such estate in case vested.

of mile. 460. In whose name securities taken or invest450. If consent not given, court to deter- mom, made.

mine the value of such estate. 461. Same subject.
451. Rule for the determination of the 4&1. When clerk to keep an account of securiVIIIIG Of Ouch 08f«8t-0- ties and investments and receive interest
452. Rights of unknown tenants for life the;-eon.

01' Yea?!» W b0 P1’°'B¢t0d- 463. When equal partition cannot be made,
43. lnchoate OI‘ contingent interests, lIOW can-t may decpoo oompongation to be

provided for. _ mde_
454. Terms of sale to be made known at 454, when proceed. of sale paid to guardian of

the time of sale. inf“;-,_
455- 30597609. 001' 9-0)’ P9509 f0" "1031: When paidto guardian of insane person.
305 W PlJ|'°h83°- When guardian may consent to partition.

456' mm” °f ”l° by ’°f°"°°‘2 Vb“ '0 46?’. Costs of partition how apportioned.
contain.

457. Report may be excepted to. Effect of.
order of oolirmation.

ii?

SEC. 419. When several persons hold and are in possession of real
property as tenants in common, in which one or more of them have
an estate of inheritance, or for life or years, a suit may be maintained
by one or more of such persons, for a partition thereof according to
the respective rights of the persons interested therein, and for a sale
of such property or a part of it, if it appear that a partition cannot be
made without great prejudice to the owners.

SEC. 420. The interest of all persons in the property, whether such
persons be known or unknown, shall be set forth in the complaint,
specifically and particularly as far as known to the plaintifff, and if one
or more of the parties, or the share or quantity of interest of any of
the parties, be unknown to the plaintifff, or be uncertain, or contingent, or the ownership of the inheritance depend upon an executory devise, or.the remainder be a contingent remainder, so that such
parties cannot be named, that fact shall be set forth in the complaint.

SEC. 421. The plaintifff may at his option, make creditors having a
lien upon the property or any portion thereof, other than by judgment
or decree, defendants in the suit. When the lien is upon an undivided interest or estate of any of ' the parties, such lien, if a partition
be made, is theuceforth alien only on the share assigned to such party;
but such share shall be first charged with its just proportion of the

costs of the partition, in preference to such lien.

SEC. 422. The summons shall be directed by name to all the
tenants in common, who are known, and in the same manner to all
lien creditors who are made parties to the suit, and generally to all
persons unknown, having or claiming an interest or estate in the
property.

SEC. 423. If a party having a share or interest in, or lien upon the
property be unknown, or either of the known parties reside out of the
state or cannot be found therein, and such fact be made to appear by
affidavit, the summons may be served on such absent or unknown
party, by .publication, directed by the court or judge as in ordinary
cases. When service of the summons is made by publication, it must
be accompanied by a brief description of the property, which is the
subject of the suit.

SEC. 424. The defendant shall set forth in his answer the nature
and extent of his interest in the property, and if he be a lien creditor,
how such lien was created, the amount of the debt secured thereby,
and remaining due, and whether such debt is secured in any other
way, and if so the nature of such other security.

SEC. 425. The rights of the several parties, plaintifffs as well as
defendants, may be put in issue, tried and determined in such suit,
and where a defendant fails to answer, or where a sale of the property
is necessary, the title shall be ascertained by proof to the satisfaction
of the court, before the decree for partition or sale is given. '

SEC. 426. If it be alleged in the complaint and established by
evidence, or if it appear by the evidence without such allegation in the
complaint, to the satisfaction of. the court, that the property or any
part of it, is so situated that partition cannot be made without great
prejudice to the owners, the court may order a sale thereof, and for
that purpose may appoint one or more referees. Otherwise upon the
requisite proofs being made, it shall decree a partition according to
the respective rights of the parties as ascertained by the court, and
appoint three referees therefore, and shall designate the portion to
remain undived, for the owners whose interests remain unknown or
not ascertained. _

SEC. 427. In making the partition, the referees shall divide the
property and allot the several portions thereof to the respective parties,
quality and quantity relatively considered, according to the respective
rights of the parties as determined by the court, designating the

several portions by proper land marks, and may employ a surveyor
with the necessary assistants to aid them therein. The referees shall
make 'a report of their proceedings, specifying therein the manner of
executing their trust, describing the property divided and the shares
allotted to each party, with a particular description of each share.

SEC. 428. The court may confirm or set aside the report in whole
or in part, and if necessary appoint new referees. Upon the report
being confirmed, a decree shall be given that such partition be effectual
forever, which decree shall be binding and conclusive:

1. On all parties named therein, and their legal representatives
who have at the time any interest in the property divided, or any part
thereof as owners in fee, or as tenants for life or for years, or as entitled
to the reversion, remainder, or inheritance of such property or any
part thereof‘, after the termination of a particular estate therein, or who
by any contingency may be entitled to a beneficial interest in the property, or who have an interest in any undivided share thereof‘, as tenants
for years or for life;

2. On all persons interested in the property, who may be
unknown, to whom notice shall have been given of the application for
partition by publication, as directed by section 423 ; and

3. On all other persons claiming from such parties or persons, or
either of them.

SEC. 429. But such decree and partition shall not affect any tenants,
for years or for life of the whole of the property which is the subject
of partition ; nor shall such decree and partition preclude any person,
except such as are specified in the last section, from claiming title to
the property in question, or from controverting the title of the parties
between whom the partition shall have been made.

SEC. 430. The expenses of the referees, including those of a surveyor and his assistants, when employed, shall be ascertained and
allowed by the court, and the amount thereof, together with the fees
allowed by law to the referees, shall be paid by the plaintifff, and may

be allowed as part of the charges.
SEC. 431. If the referees report to the court, that _the property, of

which partition shall have been decreed, or any seperate portion thereof,
is so situated, that a partition thereof’ cannot be made, without great

prejudice to the owners; and the court is satisfied that such report is '

correct, it may thereupon, by an order, direct the referees to sell the
property or seperate portion thereof, so situated.

SEC. 432-. When a part of the property only is ordered to be sold,
if there be an estate for life or years in an undivided share of the property, the whole of such estate may be set off in any part of the property not ordered to be sold.

SEC. 433. Before making an order of sale, if lien creditors, other
than those by judgment or decree, have not been made parties, the
court on motion of either party shall order the plaintifff to file a supplemental complaint, making such creditors parties defendant to the suit.

SEC. -434. _ If an order of sale be made, and before a distribution of

-the proceeds thereof, the plaintifff shall produce to the court the certificate of the clerk of the county where the property is situated, showing
the liens remaining unsatisfied, if any, by judgment or decree upon
the property or any portion thereof, and unless he do so, the court
shall order a reference to ascertain them.

SEC. 435. If it appear by such certificate, or reference, in case the
certificate is not produced, that any such liens exist, the court shall
appoint a referee to ascertain what amount remains due thereon, or
secured thereby respectively, and the order of priority in which they
are entitled to be paid out of the property.

SEC. 436. The plaintifff must cause a notice to be served at least ten
days before the time for appearance on each person having such lien
by judgment or decree, to appear before the referee at a specified time
and place, to make proof by his own afridavit or otherwise, of the true
amount due, or to become due contingently or absolutely on his judgment or decree.

SEC. 437. The referee shall receive the evidence, and report the
names of the creditors whose liens are established, the amounts due
thereon, or secured thereby, and their priority respectively, and whether
contingent or absolute. He shall attach to his report the proof service
of the notices and the evidence before him.

SEC. 438. The report of the referee may be excepted to, by either
party to the suit, or to the proceedings before the referee in like
manner and with like effect as in ordinary cases. If a lien creditor be
absent from thestate, or his residence therein be unknown, and that
fact appear by affidavit,‘the court or judge thereof may by order direct

that service of the notice may be made upon his agent or attorney of

record, or by publication thereof, for such time and in such manner as
the order may prescribe.

SEC. 439. If the report of the referee be confirmed, the order of
confirmation is binding and conclusive upon all parties to the suit and
upon the lien creditors who have been duly served with the notice to
appear before the referee as provided in section'486.

SEC. 440. The proceeds of the sale of the incumbcred property,
shall be distributed by the decree of the court, as follows :
1. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the suit;
2. To pay the costs of the reference;
3. To satisfy the several liens in their order of priority, by payment of the sums due, and to become due, according to the decree.
4. The residue among the owners of the property sold, according
to their respective shares.

SEC. 441. VVhenever any party to the suit who ‘holds a lien upon
the property or any part thereof, has other securities for the payment
of the amount of such lien, the court may, in its discretion, order such
securities to be exhausted before a distribution of the proceeds of sale,
or may order a just deduction to be made from the amount of the lien
on the property on account thereof.

SEC. 442. The proceedings to ascertain the amount of the liens,
and to determine their priority as above provided, or those hereinafter
authorized to determine the rights of parties to funds paid into court,
shall not delay the sale, nor affect any other party, whose rights are not
involved in such proceedings.

SEC. 443. The proceeds of sale, and the securities taken by the
referees, or any part thereof, shall be distributed by them to the persons entitled thereto, whenever the court so directs. But if no such
direction be given, all such proceeds and securities shall be paid into
court, or deposited as directed by the court.

SEC. 444. When the proceeds of sales of any shares or parcel
belonging to persons who are parties to the suit and who are known,
are paid into court, the suit may be continued as between such parties,
for the determination of their respective claims thereto, which shall be
ascertained and adjudged by the court. Further testimony may be
taken in court, or by a referee at the discretion of the court, and the
court may, if necessary, require such parties to present the facts or law
in controversy, by pleadings as in an original suit.

SEC. 445. All sales of real property made by the referees shall be
made by public auction to the highest bidder, in the manner required

for the sale of real property on execution. The notice shall state the
terms of sale, and if the property, or any part of it is to be sold, subject to a prior estate, charge or lien, that shall be stated in the notice.

SEC. 446. The court shall, in the order of sale, direct the terms 01

credit which may be allowed for the purchase money of any portion 01
the premises, of which it may direct a sale on credit; and for that

portion of which the purchase money is required by the provisions
hereinafter contained, to be invested for the benefit of unknown owners, infants, parties out of the state.

SEC. 447. The referees may take separate mortgages, and other

securities for the whole, or convenient portions of the purehasemoney,
of such parts of the property as are directed by the court to be sold on
credit, in the name of the clerk of the court, and his successor in
office ; and for the shares of any known owner of full age, in the name
of such owner.

SEC. 448. When the estate of any tenant for life or years, in any
undivided part of the property in question, shall have been admitted
by the parties, or ascertained by the court to be existing at the time of
the order of sale, and the person entitled to such estate shall have been
made a party to the suit, such estate may be first set off out of any
part of the property, and a sale made of such parcel, subject to the
prior unsold estate of such tenant therein; but if in the judgment of
the court, a due regard to the interest of all the parties require that
such estate be also sold, the sale may be so ordered.

SEC. 449. Any person entitled to an estate for life or years in any
undivided part of the property, whose estate shall have been sold,
shall be entitled to receive such sum in gross as may be deemed upon
principles of law applicable to annuities, a reasonable satisfaction for
such estate, and which the person so entitled shall consent to accept
instead thereof, by an instrument duly acknowledged or proved in
the same manner as deeds for the purpose of record, and filed with
the clerk.

SEC. 450. If such consent be not given, as provided in the last
section, before the report of sale the court shall ascertain and determine
what proportion of the proceeds of the sale, after deducting expenses,
will be a just and reasonable sum to be invested for the benefit of the
person entitled to such estate for life or years, and shall order the same
to be deposited in court for that purpose.

SEC. 451. The proportion of the proceeds of the sale to be invested
as provided in section 450, shall be ascertained and determined in the
several cases as follows:

1. If an_ estate in dower be included in the order of sale, its
proportion shall be one-third of the proceeds of the sale of the property, or of the sale of the undivided share in such property, upon
which the claim of dower existed;

2. If an estate by the curtesy or other estate for life or years, be
included in the order of sale, its proportion shall be the whole proceeds of the sale of the property, or of the sale of the undivided share
thereof in which such estate may be.

And in all cases, the proportion of the expenses of the proceedings
shall be deducted from the proceeds of thesale.

SEC. 452. If the persons entitled to such estate for life or years be
unknown, the court shall provide for the protection of their rights,
in the same manner as far as may be, as if they were known and
had appeared.

SEC. 453. In all cases of sales in partition, when it appears that a
married Woman has an inchoate right of dower in any of the property
sold, or that any person has a vested or contingent future right, or
estate therein the court shall ascertain and settle the proportional
value of such inchoate, contingent or vested right or estate, according
to the principles of law applicable to annuities and survivorship, and
shall direct such proportion of the proceeds of sale to be invested,
secured or paid over in such manner, as to protect the rights and
interests of the parties. ‘

SEC. 454. In all cases of sales of property, the terms shall be made
known at the time; and if the premises consist of distinct farms or
lots, they shall be sold separately, or otherwise if the court so directs.

SEC. 455. g Neither of the referees, nor any person for the benefit of
either of them, shall be interested in any purchase; nor shall the
guardian of an infant party be interested in the purchase of any real
property, being the subject of the suit except for the benefit of the
infant. All sales contrary to the provisions of this section, shall
be void.

SEC. 456. After completing the sale, the referees shall report the
same to the court, with a description of the different parcels of land
sold to each purchaser; the name of the purchaser; the price paid or

secured; the terms-and conditions of the sale; and the securities, if
any taken. The report shall be filed with the clerk.

SEC. 457. The report of sale may be excepted to by any party
entitled to a share of the proceeds, in like manner and with like effect
as in ordinary cases. If the sale be confirmed the order of confirmation shall direct the referees to execute conveyances and take
securities pursuant to such sale, which acts they are hereby authorized
to do. Such order shall have the effect to discharge the property of
the estate or interest of every person mentioned in section 428 and of
tenants for life or years of the property sold, and shall be binding and
conclusive upon all such persons, as if the same were a decree for the
partition of such property, and upon all persons whomsoever as to the
regularity of the proceedings concerning such sale, except as provided

in section 455.

SEC. 458. When aparty entitled to a share of the property, or an
encumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of the sale, becomes a
purchaser, the referees may take his receipt for so much of the proceeds of the sale as belongs to him.

SEC. 459. When there are proceeds of sale belonging to an
unknown owner, or to a person without the state, who has no legal
representative Within it, or when there are proceeds arising from the
sale of an estate, subject to the prior estate of a tenant for life or years,
which are paid into court, or otherwise deposited by order of the
court, the same shall be invested in securities on interest for the
benefit of the persons entitled thereto.

SEC. 460. When the security for the proceeds of sale is taken, or
when an investment of any such proceeds is made, it shall be done,
except as herein otherwise provided, in the name of the clerk [of the]
court, and his successors in office, who shall hold the same for the use
and benefit of the parties interested, subject to the order of the court.

SEC. 461. When security is taken by the referees on a sale, and the
parties interested in such security by an instrument in writing under
their hands, delivered to the referees, agree upon the shares and proportions to which they are respectively entitled; or when shares and
proportions have been previously adjudged by the court, such
securities shall be taken in the names of, and payable to the parties
respectively entitled thereto, and shall be delivered to such parties

upon their receipt therefore. Such agreement and receipt shall be
returned and filed with the clerk.

SEC. 462. The clerk, in whose name a security is taken, or by
whom an investment is made, and his successors in office, shall receive
the interest and principal as it becomes due, and apply and invest the
same as the court may direct; and shall file in his oiiice all securities
taken, and keep an account, in a book provided and kept for that
purpose in the clerk's office, free for inspection by all persons, of

investments and monies received by him thereon, and the disposition
thereof. '

SEC. 463. When it appears that partition cannot be made equal
between the parties, according to their respective rights, without
prejudice to the rights and interests of some of them, the court may
adjudge compensation to be made by one party to another, on account
of the inequality of partition; but such compensation shall not be
required to be made to others by owners unknown, nor’ by infants,
unless in case of an infant it appear that he has personal property
suiiicient for that purpose, and that his interest will be promoted
thereby.

SEC. 464. When the share of an infant is sold, the proceeds of the
sale may be paid by the referees making the sale to his general
guardian, or the special guardian, appointed for him in the suit, upon
giving the security required by law, or directed by order of the court.

SEC. 465. The guardian who may be entitled to the custody and
management of the estate of an insane person, or other person
adjudged incapable of conducti¥ his own affairs, whose interest in
real property shall have been sold, may receive, in behalf of such
person, his share of l the proceeds of such real property from the
referees, on executing with suilicient sureties, an undertaldng,
approved by the judge of the court, that he will faithfully discharge
the trust reposed in him, and will render a true and just account to
the person entitled, or to his legal representative.

SEC. 466. The general guardian of an infant, and the guardian
entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an insane
person, or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own
affairs, who is interested in real estate held in common, or in any
other manner, so as to authorize his being made a party to an action
for the partition thereof, may consent to a partition without suit, and

agree upon the share to be set on‘ to such infant or other person
entitled, and may execute a release in his behalf to the owners of the
shares of the parts to which they may respectively be entitled, upon
an order of the court.

SEC. 467. The costs of partition, including fees of referees and
other disbursements, shall be paid by the parties respectively entitled
to share in the lands divided, in proportion to their respective interests
therein, and may be included and specified in the decree. In that
case they shall be a lien on the several shares, and the decree may be
enforced by execution against the parties separately. When however
a litigation arises between some of the parties only, the court may
require the expense of such litigation to be paid by the parties thereto,

or any of them.

TITLE VI.

Suits by and against executors, administrators, legatees, heirs or devisees.

Sac. 468. Title, VI. of chapter IV. shall apply 475. Heirs, or devisees liable for the debts of

to suits, what causes of suit sur- their ancestor or testator.
vive to and against the personal 476. In what casesandtowhat extent not liable.
representatives. 477. Section 476 not to affect a case, where
469. Suit against next of kin by creditor debt charged upon real estate by will.
of the estate. 478. Preference of debts, and definition thereof.
470. Each liable for the whole amount 115- 479. How decree against heir or devises enceived. forced.
471. Nextof kin may maintain suit to com- 480. When heirs or devisees personally liable.
pel contribution. 481. Decree against several heirs or devisees,
472. Suit against legatees by creditor of jointly, to be apportioned among them.

the testator. 482. Devisees not liable when there are assets.
473. Apportionment of costs in suit against 483. Liable for deficiency only.
next of kin or legatees. 484. Sections 482 and 483, not to affect, a case
474. Payment of the amount recovered where the debt is charged upon the real
against any one, satisiies the decree property by the will.
as to such person.

SEC. 468. The provisions of title VI. of chapter IV. of this code
shall apply to suits by and against executors and administrators,
except as in this title otherwise or specially provided. Sections 365,
366, and 367, of such title shall not so apply. All causes of suit, by
one person against another however arising, survive to the personal
representatives of the former and against the personal representatives
of the latter. When the cause of suit survives as herein provided,
the executors or administrators may maintain a suit in equity thereon,

against the party, against whom the cause of suit accrued, or after his
death against his personal representatives.

SEC. 469. The next of kin of a deceased person are liable to a suit
in equity by a creditor of the estate to recover the distributive shares,
received out of such estate, or to so much thereof as may be necessary
to satisfy his debt. The.suit may be against all of the next of kin
jointly, or against any one or more of them severally. ‘

SEC. 470. In such suit, the plaintifff may recover the value of all
the assets received by all the defendants in the suit if necessary to
satisfy his debt; and the amount of the recovery shall be apportioned
among the defendants, in proportion to the value of the assets received
by each; and no allowance or deduction shall be made from such
amount, on account of there being other next of kin to Whom assets
have also been delivered.

SEC. 471. Any one of the next of kin, against whom a recovery is

had pursuant to section 470, may maintain a suit against all the other
next of kin of the deceased person, to whom any such assets have been
delivered, jointly, or against any of them separately, for a just and
equal contribution, and may recover of each defendant such an amount
as shall be in the same proportion to the whole sum collected of the
plaintifff, as the value of the assets delivered to such defendant bore
to the value of all the assets delivered to all the next of kin of
the deceased.

SEC. 472. Legatees are liable to a suit in equity by a creditor of
the testator to recover the value of any legacy received by them. The
suit may be maintained against all the legatees jointly, or against any
one or more of them severally. In such suit the plaintifff shall not
recover unless he shows:

1. That no assets were delivered by the executor or administrator of the testator, to his next of kin: or

2. That the value of such assets has been recovered by some
other creditor‘:

3. That such assets are not sutiicient to satisfy the demand of
the plaintifff. ‘

And in the last case he shall recover only the deficiency. The
Whole amount which the plaintifff shall recover, shall be apportioned
among all the legatees of the testator, in proportion to the value of their

legacies respectively, and his proportion shall only be recovered of
each legatee.

SEC. 473. In a suit against several next of kin or legatees jointly,
for assets delivered to them, if a recovery be had against such next of
kin or legatees, the cost of such suit shall be apportioned among the
several defendants, in proportion to the amount recoved against each

of them,

SEC. 474. A decree against several next of kin or legatees, shall be
satisfied as to any one of them, by the payment or satisfaction of the
amount recovered against such defendant.

SEC. 475. Heirs and devisees are liable to a suit by a creditor of a
deceased person, to recover the debt of their ancestor or testator to the
extent of the value of any real property inherited by, or devised to,
them. If such suit be against the heirs, all the heirs who are liable
shall be made parties to the suit.

SEC. 476. But the heirs are not liable for the debt, unless it appear
that the personal assets of the deceased were insufiicient to discharge
it, or that after due proceedings the creditor has been unable to collect
the debt from the personal representatives of the deceased, or from his
next of kin or legatees. If the personal assets were suilicient to pay a
part of the debt, or in case a part thereof shall have been collected, the
heirs of such deceased persori are liable for the residue. '

SEC. 477. Section 476.shall not affect the liability of heirs for a
debt of their ancestor, where such debt was, by his will expressly
charged exclusively on the real property descended to such heirs, or
where such debtis by the will expressly directed to be paid out of the
real property descended before resorting to the personal property.

SEC. 478. In cases where the next of kin, legatees, heirs, and
devisees, are liable for the debts of their ancestors, as herein provided,
they shall be liable therefore without other priority or preference than
such ansestors would be. The word debt as used in this title shall be
construed to include all claims for the payment of money whether
liquidated or otherwise, which survive against the personal representatives of the deceased as provided in section 468.

SEC. 479. A decree against an heir or devisee on account of the

debt of his ancestor or tcstator, may be enforced by execution against
the real property shown to have descended to the heir or devisee, and

not otherwise. Such decree shall have preference as a lien on such
real property to any judgment or decree obtained against such heir or
devisee on account of a debt or demand due in his own right.

SEC. 480. When it appears in the suit, that before the commencement thereof, the heir or devisee has aliened the real property
descended to him, or any part thereof, he shall be personally liable
for the value of the property so aliened, and a decree may be given
against him therefore, to be enforced by execution, as if the decree
were for his own debt. No real property aliened in good faith and
for a valuable consideration by an heir or devisee before suit commenced against him, is liable to an execution for the debt of his
ancestor or testator, or in any manner affected by a decree therefore

against such heir, or devisee.

SEC. 481. In a suit against several heirs jointly, or several devisees
jointly, the amount which the plaintifff recovers, must be apportioned
among all the heirs of the ancestor, or devisees of the testator, in proportion to the value of the real property descended or devised, and
such proportion only can be recovered of each heir or devisee.

SEC. 482. A devisee shall not be liable to the creditor of his
testator, unless it appear that the personal assets of the testator, and
the real property descended to his heirs were insutiicient to discharge
the debt, or unless it appear that after due proceedings the creditor has
been unable to recover the debt or any part thereof from the personal
representatives of the testator, or from his next of kin, legatees,
or heirs.

SEC. 483. In either of the cases specified in section 482, the
amount of the deficiency of the personal assets, and of the real
property descended, to satisfy the debt of the plaintifff, or the amount
which such plaintifff may have failed to recover from the personal
representatives of the testator, his next of kin, legatees and heirs, may
be recovered of the devisees of such testator, to the extent of the
value of the real property devised to them respectively.

SEC. 484. Sections 482 and 483 shall not affect the liability of
devisees, for a debt of their testator, where such debt was by his will
expressly charged exclusively upon the real property devised, or by
the terms of the will made payable by the devisee. or out of the real
property devised, before resorting to the personal property or to any
other real property descended or devised.

TITLE VII.
Suits for the dissolution of the marriage contract.

Ste. 485. Husband and wife may maintain suit 494. When the defendant may admit the charge

to dissolve marriage contract or de- of the plaintiff, and plead in bar of the
clare the same void. Bull486. What marriages absolutely void. 495. When marriage declared void or dissolved,

487. What marriages void from the time effect of upon the real property of either
they are so declared. P3|‘iY- '

433. when man-133. may be aocm-ed 496. What the court may order during-the
void from the beginning, at the pendency of the suit and before decree
suit of either party, effect of con- lvh¢1'¢ingmauon the;-gof, 497. When a marriage declared void or dis489. At whose suit marriage may be de- solved, what the court may further declared. void for the causes specided cree.
in section 487. 498. Power of the court to modify the decree

490. Suit to declare marriage valid. after it is given and in what particulars.

491_ For what, came, and at whose gun, 499. When marriage declared void or dissolved,
mama mgybedgclu-edaiggolved, it terminates the marriage as to both

492. In a suit to declare marriage void, Pmlaa but Millie!‘ 3811 0000103 marplaintifff must be an inhabitant of "l38’° "N" l-13° P°"l°d f°" “PP?” 1138 01'
the State, and when defendant also. Pina493. When suit can be maintained to dissolve the marriage contract.

Sitc. 485. A husband orwife may maintain a suit against the other

for dissolution of the marriage contract, or to have the same declared
void, as provided in this title.

See. 486. All marriages which are prohibited by law, on account
of consanguinity between the parties, or on account of either of them
having a former husband or wife then living or on account of either

of them being of one fourth or more of negro blood, shall if solemnized
Within this state be absolutely void. '

SEC. 487. When either of the parties to a marriage shall he incapable of making such contract or assenting thereto, for want of legal age,
or sufficient understanding, or when the consent of either party shall
be obtained by force or fraud, such marriage shall be void, from the

time it-is so declared by the decree of a court having jurisdiction
thereof.

Sec. 488. A marriage may be declared void from the beginning
at the suit of either party, for any of the causes specified in section
486, and Whether so declared or not, shall be deemed and held to be
void in any action, suit or proceeding whatever in which the same. may

come in question; but a marriage once declared to be valid by the l

decree of a court having jurisdiction thereof in a suit for that purpose,
cannot afterwards be questioned for the same cause directly or
otherwise.

SEC. 489. A marriage shall not be declared void for any of the
causes specified in section 487, except at the suit or claim of the party
laboring under the disability, or upon whom the force or fraud was
imposed or practiced; nor at the suit or claim of such party, if it
appears that the parties freely cohabited together as husband and wife
after the party had arrived at legal age, acquired suiiicient understanding, been restored to reason, freed from the force, or discovered the
fraud, as the case may be.

SEC. 490. When either husband or wife shall claim or pretend
that the marriage is void or voidable as provided in sections 486 and
487, the same maybe declared valid and lawful at the suit of the
other; and in such suit the court shall have power, if the pleadings
and proofs authorize it, to declare such marriage void from the beginning, or from the time of the decree or that it is valid and lawful and
binding on the parties thereto.

SEC. 491. A dissolution of the marriage contract may be declared

at the suit or the claim of the injured party for either of the following
causes:

1. Impotency, existing at the time of the marriage, and con-'

tinuing to the commencement of the suit.
2. Adultery.
3. Conviction of a felony. ,
4. Habitual gross drunkenness, contracted since marriage, and

continuing for two years prior to the commencement of the suit.
5. Wilful desertion for the period of three years.

6. Cruel and inhuman treatment, or personal indignities rendering life burdensome. _-.

SEC. 492. When a marriage has been solemnized in this state, a
suit may be maintained to declare it void, if the plaintiff is an inhabitant of the state at the commencement of the suit. If the marriage
has not been solemnized in this state such suit can only be maintained

when both the parties are inhabitants thereof at the commencement
of the suit, and the plaintifff for one year prior thereto.

SEC. 493. A suit for the dissolution of the marriage contract, can
only be maintained, when the plaintifff is an inhabitant of this state at

the commencement of the suit, and has been for one year prior thereto,
and when, either the marriage contract was solemnized in this state;
or the defendant is also an inhabitant thereof, and the cause of suit
arose in this state, or during a removal thereto, and subsequently to
the parties being domiciled in any other state, territory or country.

S130. 494. In a suit for the dissolution of the marriage contract on
account of adultery, the defendant may admit the adultery and show
in bar of the suit: either, '

1. That the act was committed by the procurement, or with the
connivance of the plaintifff; or,

2. That the act has been expressly forgiven, or impliedly so, by
the voluntary cohabitation of the parties after knowledge thereof; or,

3. That the plaintifff has been guilty of adultery also, without
the procurement or connivance of the defendant, and not forgiven as
provided in subdivision 2 of this section; or

4. That the suit has not been commenced within one year after
the discovery of the act by the plaintifff.

When the suit is for any of the causes specified in subdivisions 8, 4,
5 or 6 of section 491, the defendant may admit the charge and show
in bar of the suit, that the act complained of was committed by the
procurement of the defendant, [plaintifff '3] or that it has been
expressly forgiven, or that the suit has not been commenced within
one year after the right of suit accrued.

SEC. 495. Whenever a marriage shall be declared void or dissolved,
the real property of the husband or wife shall be discharged from any
claim of the other to any estate therein, or right to the possession or
profits thereof‘, except as in this section specially provided: If the

marriage is declared dissolved on account of the adultery, or convic- '

tion of a felony of either party, the adverse party shall be entitled as
tenant in dower, or by the curtesy as the case may be, in the real
property of the other, the same as if the party convicted of felony or

committing the adultery were dead.

SEC. 496. After the commencement of a suit and before a decree
therein, the court or judge thereof may in its discretion, provide by

order as follows:
1. That the husband pay or secure to be paid to the clerk of the

court, such an amount of money as may be necessary to enable the
wife to prosecute or defend the suit as the case may be.

2. For the care, custody, and maintainance of the minor children
of the marriage during the pendency of the suit.

3. For the freedom of the wife from the control of the husband
during the pendency of the suit.

SEC. 497. Whenever a marriage shall be declared void or dissolved,
the court shall have power to further decree as follows :,

1. For the future care and custody of the minor children of the
marriage, as it may deem just and proper, having due regard to the
age and sex of such children, and unless otherwise manifestly improper,
giving the preference to the party not in fault. 2. For the recovery of the party, in fault, and not allowed the
care and custody of such children, such an amount of money, in gross
or in instalments, as may be just and proper for such party to contribute towards the nurture and education thereof.

3. For the recovery of the party in fault, such an amount of
money, in gross or in instalments, as may be just and proper for such
party to contribute to the maintainance of the other.

4. For the delivery to the wife, when she is not the party in fault,
of her personal property in the possession or control of the husband
at the time of giving the decree. .

5. For the appointment of one or more trustees, to collect,
receive, expend, manage or invest, in such manner as the court shall
direct, any sum of money decreed for the maintainance of the wife, or
the nurture and, education of minor children committed to her care

and custody.
6. To change the name of the wife when she is not the party in

fault.
-Snc. 498. At. any timeafterza decree is. given, the court or judge

thereof, upon the motion of either party, shall have power to set aside.

alter or modify so much of the decree as may provide for the appointment of trustees, for the care and custody of the minor children, or
the nurture and education thereof, or the maintainance of either party
to the suit.

181:0. 499. A decree declaring a marriage void or dissolved. at the
suit or claim of either party shall have the effect to terminate such
marriage as to both parties, except that neither party shall be capable
of contracting marriage with a third person, and if he or she does so
contract, shall be liable therefore as if such decree had not been given;

until the suit has been heard and determined on appeal, or if no appeal
be taken, the expiration of the period allowed by this code to take

such appeal. . ‘

TITLE VIII.

Suits to determine adverse claims to real property, and to cancel a patent
wrongfully issued therefore.

SIC. 500. Snitto determine adverse claim by 501. Suit to cancel patent wrongfully issued.
party in possession. [

SEC. 500. Any person in possession, by himself or his tenant, of
real property, may maintain a suit in equity against_ another, who
claims an estate or interest therein adverse to him, for the purpose of
determining such claim, estate or interest.

SEC. 501. Whenever any person claims real property as a donee of
the United States, by virtue of a settlement thereon under the act of
Congress approved September 27, A. D., 1850, commonly called the
donation law, or the acts amendatory thereof, and the patent for such
property or any portion thereof shall have been wrongfully issued to
another; such person may maintain a suit in equity against the person
to whom the patent may issue or those claiming under him, for the
purpose of having such patent canceled, and the estate or interest of
the plaintifff in the property ascertained and established. In such suit
the party entitled to, and making the settlement under such acts of
Congress, and complying with the subsequent conditions thereby
required, shall be taken and deemed to have a legal estate in fee in the
property, although the patent therefore has issued to another.

CHAPTER VI.

General pro'vz'sz'ons.

Ste. 502. Thischaptertoapply toboth action: 506. When court has jurisdiction of natural

and suits. P930“sos. If original paper or pleading be lost, 507. When court has jurisdiction of corporacopy may be filed. 500504. When successive actions or units may 503- W53‘ .i“1'i5di°i5°n °°“''l- 133)’ e‘9|'¢l9°
be maintained upon the same cou- When it 5“ .l‘“'l3di°‘i°n 0f “*0 P9-"‘-3°‘
mm; 0,. tnmacgiom 519. When majority of referees or other per505. When actions or suite may be consol- 9°05 "13! 3°‘;dm,ed_ when deemed pend;,,g_ 510. Computation of time for the publication of

legal notices or other acts.

SEC. 502. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the proceedings in both actions and suits, except as herein otherwise or
specially provided.

SEC. 503. If an original paper or pleading be lost or withheld by

any person, the court or judge thereof may order a copy thereof to be
filed and used instead of the original.

SEC. 504. Successive actions or suits may be maintained upon the
same contract or transaction, whenever after the former action or suit,
a new cause of action or suit arises therefrom.

SEC. 505. Whenever two or more actions or suits are pending at
one time, between the same parties, and in the same court, upon causes
which might have been joined, the court may upon the motion of the
defendant order the same to be "consolidated. An action or suit is
deemed to be pending from the commencement thereof, until its final
determination upon appeal, or until the expiration of the period
allowed to take an appeal.

SEC. 506. No natural person is subject to the jurisdiction of 9.
court of this state, unless he appear in the court, or be found within
the state, or be a resident thereof, or have property therein; and in
the last case only to the extent of such property at the time the
jurisdiction attached. But this section is not to be construed to limit
the power of the courts of this state to declare a marriage void or a
dissolution thereof, when the defendant is a non-resident of the state,
in the cases provided for in title VII. of chapter V.

SEC. 507. No corporation is subject to the jurisdiction of a court of
this state, unless it appear in the court, or have been created by, or

under the laws of this state, or have an agency established therein for
the transaction of some portion of its business, or have property
therein; and in the last case only to the extent of such property at the
time the jurisdiction attached.

SEC. 508. When the court has jurisdiction of the parties, it may
exercise it, in respect to any cause of action or suit, wherever arising,
except for the specific recovery of real property situated without this

state, or for an injury thereto.

SEC. 509. Whenever there is more than one referee, all must meet,
but a majority of them may do any act which might be done by all,
and Whenever any authority is conferred on three or more persons it
may be exercised by a majority of them, upon the meeting of all unless
expressly otherwise provided.

SEC.‘ 510. The time Within which an act is to be done, as provided

in this code, shall be computed by excluding the first day and
including the last, unless the last day fall upon Sunday, Christmas,
or other non-judicial day, in which case the last day shall also be
excluded. The time for the publication of legal notices, shall be
computed so as to exclude the first day of publication, and to include
the day on which the act or event of which notice is given, is to
happen, or which completes the full period required for publication.

TITLE I.—0j'er to compromise and the inspection of wrz't2'n_qs.
TITLE II.—Motions and orders. _

TITLE I[I.—JV‘otz'ces, and service and jiling of papers.
TITLE IV.-—.Appeals.

TITLE V.— Costs and disbursements.

TITLE VI.—Records and files of the court.

TITLE 1.
Qfer to compromise and the inspection of writings.

Bzc. 511. Offer to compromise, how accepted, 512. Order for the inspection or copy of books

and effect thereof. or papers, and effect of refusal or neglect
to obey the name.

Size. 511. The defendant may at any time before trial serve upon

the plaintifff an offer to allow judgment or decree to be given against
him for the sum, or the property, or to the effect, therein specified.
If the plaintifff accept the offer, he shall by himself or attorney endone
such acceptance thereon, and file the same with the clerk, before trial
and within three days from the time it was served upon him; and
thereupon judgment or decree shall be given accordingly as in caseof a confession. If the offer be not accepted and filed within the time
prescribed, it shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given in
evidence on the trial; and if the plaintifff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment or decree, he shall not recover costs, but the defendant
shall recover of him, costs and disbursements from the time of the

service of the offer.

SEC. 512. The court or judge thereof, while an action or suit is
pending may order either party to give the other, within a specified
time, an inspection and copy, or permission to take 9. copy, of any
book, document, or paper in his possession, or under his control,
containing evidence or matters relating to the merits of the action or
suit, or the defense therein. If obedience to the order be neglected
or refused, the court may exclude the book, document or paper from
being given in evidence, or if wanted as evidence by the party applying therefore, may direct the jury to presume it to be such as he alleges
it to be; and the court may also punish the party so neglecting or
refusing as for a contempt. This section is not to be construed to
prevent a party from compelling another to produce books, documents
or papers, when he is examined as a witness.

TITLE II.
Motions and orders.

Ste. 513. Order and motion, delinition of. 515. Notice of motion, time of, and when
514. Motions. to whom, and when made. necessary.

SEC. 513. Every direction of a court or judge made or entered in
Writing and not included in a judgment or decree, is denominated an
order. An application for an order is a motion.

SEC. 514. Motions shall be made to the court or judge as provided
in other parts of this code. They shall be made within the circuit
where the action or suit is triable, except when made to a judge of the

court before ‘Whom the action is pending and without notice, in which
case, an order may be made by such judge in any part of the state.

SEC. 515. When a notice of a motion is necessary, it shall be served
ten days before the time appointed for the hearing; but the court or
judge thereof may prescribe by order endorsed upon the notice a
shorter time. Notice of a motion is not necessary except when this
code requires it, or when directed by the court or judge in pursuance

thereof.

TITLE III.
Notices, and service and filing of papers.

Sac. 516. Notices to be in writing. 521. When party absent from the state how
517. Notices and other papers how served, service made-. If there be an attorney
and upon whom. service must be made upon him and not
518. When service may be made. by mail, the party.
time allowed for distance. 522. Foregoing provisions not to apply to the
519. How copy deposited, and when serv- _ ' service of a summons.
ice deemed to be made. 523. Notice is valid, though defective in form.
520. Appearance how made. Defendant 524. All papers to be filed, how Sled, and when
not to he heard before appearance clerk may decline to ale them.

' except to give undertakings.

SEC. 516. Notices shall be in writing, and notices and other papers
shall be served on the party or attorney in the manner prescribed in
this title, where not otherwise provided by this code.

SEC. 517. The service, or deposit in the post office when served by
mail, may be made by any person other than the party himself. The
proof of service shall‘ be the same as the proof of service of a summons,
and shall be returned with the original notice or other paper of which
service is made at the time and place therein prescribed for the hearing or other proceeding to be had thereon. The servicemay be personal, by delivery of a copy of the notice or other paper to the party

or attorney on whom the service is required to be made, or it may be
as follows :

1. If upon an attorney it may be made during his absence from
his office by leaving the copy with his clerk therein, or with a person
having charge thereof; or when there is no person in the onice, by
leaving it between the hours of six in the morning and.nine in the
evening in a conspicuous place in the office, or if it be not open to

admit of such service, then by leaving it at the attorney’s residence
with some person of suitable age and discretion.

2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the copy at his
residence, between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the
evening with some person of suitable age and discretion.

SEC. 518. Service by mail may be made, when the person for whom
the service is made, and the person on whom it is to be made, reside
in different places between which there is a communication by mail,
adding one day to the time of service for every fifty miles of distance
between the place of deposit and the place of the address.

SEC. 519. In case of service by mail, the copy must be deposited in
the post office addressed to the‘ person on whom it is to be served, at
his place of residence and the postage paid. The service shall be
deemed to be made on the first day after the deposit in the post office,
that the mail leaves the place of deposit for the place of the address,

and not otherwise.

SEC. 520. A defendant appears in an action or suit, when he answers
demurs, or gives the plaintifff written notice of his appearance, and
until he does so appear, he shall not be heard in such action or suit, or
in any proceeding pertaining thereto, except the giving of the undertakings allowed to the defendant in the provisional remedies of arrest,
attachment, and the delivery of personal property. When the defendant has not appeared, notice of a motion or other proceeding need not
be served upon him, unless he be imprisoned for want of bail, or unless
directed by the court or judge thereof in pursuance of this‘code.

SEC. 521. “Then a party is absent from the state, and has no
attorney in the action or suit, service may be made by mail if his
residence be known, if not known on the clerk for him. But when a
party has an attorney in the action or suit, service of notice or other
papers, shall be made upon the attorney if he reside in the county
where the action or suit is pending, instead of the party and not
otherwise.

SEC. 522. The foregoing provisions do not apply to the service of a
summons or other process, nor so much thereof as allows service to be
made of any notice or other paper to bring a party into contempt,
otherwise than upon such party personally.

SEC. 5%. A notice or other paper is valid and effectual, although
defective, either in respect to the title of the action or suit in which it

is made, or the name of the court or the parties, if it intelligibly refer
to such action or suit.

SEC. 524. All undertakings, affidavits or other papers required by
or provided for in this code shall be filed with the clerk, except when
this code otherwise specially provides. A pleading or paper shall
be filed by delivering the same to the clerk at his office, who shall
endorse upon it the day of the month and the year and subscribe his
name thereto. The clerk shall not be required to receive for filing
any paper unless the name of the court, the title of the cause and the
paper, and the names of the parties, and the attorney, if there be one,
is intelligibly endorsed on the back of it, nor unless the contents
thereof can be read by a person of ordi-nary skill.

TITLE IV.
Appeals.

Sac. 525. How judgment or decree reviewed, 531. Transcript when filed, what. to contain, if
and when order to be deemed a not filed appeal deemed abandoned.
judgment or decree. 532. Rule upon clerk to further certify as to

526. Who may appeal, and how parties omissions in the transcript.
' known. 533. Judgment only to be reviewed upon ques527. How appeal is taken and perfected. tions of law, but on appeal from decree
528. Undertaking for the appeal, and wit to be tried anewfurthep one for 53,3)! of pg-oceedingg_ 534. POWBP Of 3pp8llBtO C0lll't t0 afllrm, 
5&9. Notwithstanding stay of proceedings, 01' 1'°V31‘5‘3s audit? 39°93”? °1'de1' 9- “CW
perishable property may be sold. MR1further undertaking. When pro- When Peititmion dil‘6°l’«8dxvhep court, may dispense with 535. Intermediate order may be reviewed, and
ceedings stayed upon undertaking 536. How decision of the appellate court given

for appeal only. and enforced.
53o_ yvhen respondent, may enforce judg. 537. W-“hen damages given’ for delay, and the
ment or decree, notwithstanding amount thereof.

stay of proceeding.

SEC. 525. A judgment or decree may be reviewed as prescribed in
this title and not otherwise. An order affecting a substantial right,
and which in effect determines the action or suit so as to prevent a
judgment or decree therein, or a final order affecting a substantial
right and made in a proceeding after judgment or decree, for the
purpose of being reviewed shall be deemed a judgment or decree.

SEC. 526. Any party to a judgment or decree, other than a judgment or decree given by confession or for want of answer, may appeal

therefrom. The party appealing is known as the appellant, and the
adverse party as the respondent, but the title of the action or suit is
not changed in consequence of the appeal.

SEC. 527. An appeal shall be taken and perfected in the manner
prescribed in this section, and not otherwise.

1. The appellant shall cause a notice to be served on the adverse
party and file the original, with proof of service endorsed thereon,
with the clerk where the judgment or decree is entered. Such notice
shall state that the appellant appeals from the judgment or decree or
some specified part thereof, and shall contain the certi’dcate of an
attorney of the court to the effect, that he has examined the judgment
or decree and that the same is substantially erroneous and in what
particulars.

2. Within ten days from the service of notice of the appeal the
appellant shall file with the clerk an undertaking as hereinafter

provided. Within five days thereafter the adverse party shall except‘
to the sufiiciency of the sureties in the undertaking, or he shall be

deemed to have waived his right thereto.

3. The qualifications of sureties in an undertaking on an 'appeal,
shall be the same as in bail on arrest, and if excepted‘ to, they shall
justify in like manner.

4. From the expiration of the time allowed to except to the
sureties in the undertaking, or from the justification thereof, if excepted
to, the appeal shall be deemed perfected. When a party in good faith
gives due notice of an appeal from a judgment or deeree, and thereafter omits through mistake to do any other act necessary to perfect
the ‘appeal, or to stay proceedings, the court or judge thereof may
permit an amendment, or performance of such act, on such terms as
may be just. , ‘

5. An appeal to the supreme court shall be taken by serving and
filing the notice of appeal, within one year from the entry of the
judgment or decree appealed from or to the circuit court within six
months after such entry, and not otherwise.

SEC. 528. The undertaking of the appellant shall be given with
one or more sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay all damages, costs and disbursements which may be awarded against him on
the appeal; but such undertaking does not stay the proceedings, unless
the undertaking further provides to the effect following:

1. If the judgment or decree appealed from be for the recovery

of money, or of personal property, or the value thereof; that if the
same or any part thereof be arliirnred, the appellant will satisfy it so

far as &rmed.
2. If the judgment or decree appealed from be for the recovery

of the possession of real property, for a partition thereof, or the foreclosure of a lien thereon; that during the possession of such property
by the appellant he will not commit, or suffer to be committed any
waste thereon, and that if such judgment or decree or any part thereof

be amrmed, the appellant will pay the value of the use and occupation ‘

of such property so far as adirmed, from the time of the appeal until
the delivery of the possession thereof, not exceeding a sum therein
specined, to be ascertained and fixed by the court or judge thereof.

a 3. If the decree appealed from require the transfer -or delivery of
any personal property, unless the things required to be transferred or
delivered, be brought into court or placed in the custody of such officer
or receiver as the court may appoint; that the appellant will obey the
decree of the appellate court. The amount of such undertaking shall
be specified therein, and be fixed by the court or judge thereof.

4. When the decree appealed from is for the foreclosure of a lien,
and also against the person for the amount of the debt secured thereby,
the undertaking shall also be to the effect that the appellant will pay
any portion of such decree, remaining unsatisfied after the sale of the
property, upon which the lien is foreclosed.

W'hen the decree appealed from requires the execution of a conveyance or other ipstmment, execution of the decree is not stayed by the
appeal, unlessfthe instrument is executed and deposited with the clerk,
within the time allowed to file the undertaking, to abide the decree of

the appellate court.

SEC. 529. When the proceedings are stayed, if perishable property
has been seized to satisfy or secure the judgment or decree, or has been
directed to be sold thereby, the court or judge thereof may order the

property to be sold, as if the proceedings were not stayed, and the proeeeds thereof to be deposited or invested to abide the decision of the
appellate court. The court or judge thereof in its discretion may dispense with or limit the further undertaking required by subdivisions 1,
2, 3 and 4 of section 528, when the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other person acting in another’s right. In cases not

provided for in such subdivisions, when an appeal is perfected, with an

undertaking for the appeal only, proceedings shall be stayed as if the
further undertaking therefore had been given.

SEC. 530. If the judgment or decree has been given in an action or
suit upon a contract, notwithstanding an appeal, and undertaking for
the stay of proceedings, the respondent may proceed to enforce such
judgment or decree, if within ten days from the time the appeal is perfected, he file with the clerk an undertaking with one or more sureties,
to the effect, that if the judgment or decree be reversed or modiiied,
the respondent will make such restitution as the appellate court may
direct. Such undertaking may be excepted to by the appellant in like
manner and with like effect as the undertaking of an appellant, and
the sureties therein shall have the same qualifications.

SEC. 581. Upon the appeal being perfected, the appellant shall
within twenty days thereafter if the appeal be to the supreme court,
or if to the circuit court within ten days thereafter, file with the clerk
of the appellate court the transcript of the cause, as provided in this
section and thereafter the appellate court has jurisdiction of the cause,
and not otherwise.

1. The transcript is a copy, certified by the clerk, of the roll or
iinal record, or the pleadings, orders, papers and journal entries that
constitute such roll or record, together with a copy of the notice of
appeal and any order enlarging the time to file the transcript, and a
statement of the filing of the undertaking, whether by the appellant
or respondent, the names of the sureties therein, the amount thereof
if the same is specified, and if given by the appellant whether the
undertaking is given for an appeal only, or a stay of proceedings also.

2. If the appeal is from a decree, the clerk shall attach together
the depositions and other papers on file in his office, containing the
evidence heard or offered on the trial in the court below, and append
thereto his certificate to that e&'ect, and deliver them to the appellant
with the transcript, taking therefore his receipt in duplicate, one of
which he shall file in his office and deliver the other to the respondent
when so requested. For the purpose of acquiring jurisdiction by the
appellate court, such evidence shall be deemed a part of the transcript,

~ and shall be filed therewith.

3. If the transcript is not filed with the clerk of the appellate
court within the time provided, the appeal is to be deemed abandoned
and the effect thereof terminates, but the court or judge thereof, may
upon notice to the respondent and such terms as may be just, by order

enlarge the time for filing the same, but such order shall be made
within the time allowed to file the transcript, and shall not extend it
beyond the term of the appellate court next following the appeal.

4. If the appeal be abandoned as provided in subdivision 3 of
this section, thereafter the judgment or decree so far as it is for the
recovery of money may be enforced against the sureties in the undertaking for a stay of proceedings as if they were parties to such judgment or decree.

SEC. 532. “Then it appears by affidavit to the satisfaction of the
court, that the transcript is incomplete in any particular substantially
affecting the merits of the judgment or decree appealed from, on
motion of the respondent the court shall make a rule upon the clerk
of the court below, requiring him to certify as to such alleged
omission, and if true, to transmit to the appellate court a certified
copy of the pleading, entry, order or other paper, omitted in the
transcript; or, in such case the respondent may move to dismiss the
appeal, and the court shall allow such motion, unless, on the cross
motion of the appellant it makes a rule upon the clerk concerning such
omission as provided in this section upon such terms as may be just.
At any time before the hearing or trial, the court, on motion of the
appellant, may dismiss the appeal; and thereupon the court shall affirm
the judgment or decree appealed from as a matter of course.

SEC. 533. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the same shall only
be reviewed as to questions of law appearing upon the transcript, and
shall only be reversed or modified for errors substantially affecting the
rights of the appellant; but, upon an appeal from a decree the suit
shall be tried anew upon the transcript and evidence accompanying it.

SEC. 534. Upon an appeal the appellate court may affirm, reverse,
or modify the judgment or decree appealed from, in the respect mentioned in the notice, and not otherwise; as to any or all of the parties
joining in the appeal, and may include in such decision any or all of
the parties not joining in the appeal, except a co-defendant of the
appellant, against whom a several judgment or decree might have
been given in the court below; and may if necessary and proper order

a new trial.
SEC. 535. Upon an appeal the appellate court may review any

intermediate order involving the merits, or necessarily affecting the
judgment or decree appealed from; and when it reverses or modifies

such judgment or decree may direct complete restitution of all
property and rights lost thereby.

SEC. 536. The decision of the appellate court shall be given and
enforced as provided in this section,

1. Upon an appeal to the supreme court its decision shall be
entered in the journal, and the cause remitted by mandate to the court
below for further proceedings as therein directed. If a new trial be
ordered, upon .the receipt of the mandate by the clerk of the court
below, the decision and order shall be entered in the journal, and
thereafter the cause shall be deemed pending and for trial in such
court, according to the directions of the appellate court.

2. If a new. trial is not ordered, upon the receipt of the mandate
by such clerk,.a judgment or decree shall be entered in the journal
and docketed in pursuance of the direction of the appellate court, in
like manner and with like effect as if the same was given in the court
below.

3. Upon an appealto the circuit court, its decision shall be given,
entered, docketed and enforced in like manner and with like effect as
if the cause had been commenced in that court; unless a new trial is
ordered, in which case, the order may be in the discretion of the court,
either, that the cause be remitted to the court below, or that the new
trial be had in the circuit court.

4. If judgment or decree be given against the appellant, it shall
be entered against his sureties also, in like manner and with like effect,
according to the nature and. extent of their undertaking. An appeal
shall not discharge the lieu of a judgment or decree, and unless the
same be reversed, the lien thereof shall be merged. and continue in the
athrmed or modified judgment or decree given on appeal, from the
time of the entry and docketing of the same in the court below.

SEC. 537. Whenever a judgment or decree is affirmed on appeal,
and the same be for the recovery of money or personal property or the
value thereof, the judgment or decree shall be given for ten per cent.
on the amount thereof for damages for the delay, unless it appear
evident to the appellate court, that there was probable cause for taking
the appeal.

TITLE V.

Costs and disbursements.

8:6. 538. Costs, definition of. 549. Fees of referees.
539. When costs allowed to plaintifff. 550. Costs on postponement, or granting other
540. Costs, when several actions are application on terms.
brought on same cause of action. 55}. Plea of tender, and effect of as to costs.
541. Costs, when allowed to defendant. 552. Guardian of infant plaintifff liable as
549. Amount of costs. phintif for costs. .
543. Disbursements what constitute, and 553. Costs where person sues or defends in the
when allowed. right of another. '
544. Cost and disbursementsin a suit. 554. On review of decision of a court of in545. Who liable for fees of oliicers, what ferlor jurisdiction.
disbursements collected on execu- 555. Costs, where state or public corporation
tion. therein a party, or where natural per546. Clerk to tax costs and disbursements, ‘ son joined as plaintifff, or ‘the action is
verilled statement thereof to be upon the inmrmation of such person.
filed. May be excepted to by ad- 556. Security for costs when plaintifff non-reei—
. verse party. dent, or foreign corporation.
547. When objections made clerk to de- 557. Sure subject. "‘.-."’
cide, appeal therefrom to court. 558.. Costs on motion, and in cases not other548. Effect of such appeal. wise provided for.

SEC. 538. The measure and mode of compensation of attorneys
shall be left to the agreement express or implied of the parties; but
there may be allowed to the prevailing party in the judgment or
decree, certain sums by way of indemnity for his attorney fees in
maintaining the action or suit or defense thereto, which allowances are
termed costs.

SEC. 539. Costs are allowed of course to the plaintifff upon a judgment in his favor in the following cases:

1. In an action for the recovery of the possession of real property, or where a claim of title or interest in real property, or right to
the possession thereof arises upon the pleadings, or is certified by the
court to have come in question upon the trial.

2. In actions for fines and forfeitures, and the actions provided
for in titles IV. and V. of chapter IV. of this code.

3. In an action involving an open mutual account, where it
appears to the satisfaction of the court that the sum total of suchaccounts of both parties, exceeds one hundred and. fifty dollars.

4. In an action for the recovery of personal property.

5. In any action not hereinbefore specified. for. the recovery of’

money or damages, when the plaintifff shall" recover fifty dollars.
or more.

But in an action for assault, battery, false imprisonment, libel,
slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversation, seduction, or
breach of promise of marriage; if the plaintifff recovers less than
nfty dollars damages, he shall recover no more costs and disbursements than damages; and in an action to recover the possession of
personal property, if the plaintifff recover property or the value thereof,
as established on the trial, and damages for'the detention of the same,
in all less than fifty dollars, he shall recover no more costs and disbursements, than the sum of such value and damages.

SEC. 540. When several. actions shall be prosecuted for the same
cause of action against several parties who might have been joined as
defendants in the same action, disbursements shall be allowed the
plaintifff in each action if he prevail therein, but costs shall not be
allowed such plaintifff in more than one of such actions which shall be
at his election; unless the party or parties prosecuted in such other
action or actions shall at the time of the commencement of the previous action have been without this ‘state or secreted therein.

SEC. 541.. Costs are allowed of course to the defendant in the
actions mentioned in section 539 unless the plaintifff be entitled to costs
therein; and when there are several defendants not united in interest
and making separate defenses by separate answers, costs shall be
allowed or not to each of such defendants as if the action were commenced against him separately.

SEC. 5422. Costs when allowed to either party are as follows:

1. In the supreme court, on an appeal, to the prevailing party
fifteen dollars.

2. In the circuit court, to the prevailing party, when judgment
is given without trial of an issue of law or fact, or uponAan appeal
five dollars; when judgment is given after trial of an issuéibf law or
fact ten dollars. '

_ 3. In the county court 'one half the‘ amount allowed in the
circuit court. I I " ' '

But when on an appeal to the supreme or circuit court a new trial
is ordered, or a decision given modifying the judgment‘ appealed from,
the costs on appeal shall be allowed or not, in the disdletion of the

appellate court.

SEC. 543. A party entitled. to costs, shall also be allowed for all
necessary disbursements, including the fees of officers and witnesses,

the necessary expenses of taking depositions by commission or otherwise, the expense of the publication of the summons or notices, and

the postage where the same are served by mail, the compensation of

referees and the necessary expense of copying any public record,
book or document used as evidence on the trial. ' '

SEC. 544. In a suit costs and disbursements shall be allowed to a
party in whose favor a decree is given, in like manner and amount as
an action, without reference tothe amount recovered, or the value of
the subject of the suit, unless the court otherwise. directs.

SEC. 545. Every officer, witness or other person, required to do or

- perform any act or service, for any party to any action, suit or proceeding whatever, shall be entitled to demand and receive from such
party the compensation which the law allows therefore in advance; and
if he omit to do so, the compensation for such act or service is a debt

due from such party, to such officer, witness or person,’ and cannot be
collected by execution upon the judgment or decree, given in the

"action, suit, or proceeding, in which such act or service was done or

performed. The costs and disbursements which a party is entitled to
recover, after being allowed as hereinafter provided, may be collected
by execution as a part of the judgment or decree, and none other.—

SEC. 546. Costs and disbursements shall be taxed and allowed by
the clerk. No disbursements shall be allowed any party, -unless he
shall within three days from the entry of judgment or decree, file with
the clerk, and serve a copy thereof upon the adverse party or his attorney, a verified statement of the same in detail. The statement of disbursements, thus filed, and costs shall be allowed of course unless the
adverse party within two days from the time allowed to file the same,
shall file his objections thereto, stating the particulars of such objections.

SEC. 547. When objections are made to the claim for costs and
disbursements, the clerk shall forthwith pass upon the same, and
endorse upon the verified statement or append thereto, the charges
allowed or disallowed. Any party aggrieved by the decision of the
clerk in the allowance of costs or disbursements, may appeal from such
decision to the court within five days from the date of such decision,
by serving a notice of such appeal, and in what particulars upon the
adverse party or his attorney, which appeal shall be heard and determined by such court or judge thereof as ‘soon thereafter as convenient.

SEC. 548. Such appeal shall stay the proceedings as to the costs and

disbursements to which the appeal is taken or relates, unless the
respondent file with the clerk an undertaking, with one or more sureties, to the effect, that if the decision of the clerk be reversed or modified, he will make such restitution as the court or judge may direct.
The sufliciency of the sureties in the undertaking may be excepted to
by the appellant, and they be required to justify in like manner and
with like effect as in an ordinary undertaking for an appeal.

SEC. 549. The fees of referees shall be four dollars per day, to each,
for every day spent in the business of the reference, but the parties
may agree in writing upon any other rate of compensation, and thereupon such rate shall be allowed.

SEC. 550. Upon an application to postpone a trial, the payment to
the adverse party of a sum not exceeding ten dollars as costs may be
imposed by the court as a condition of granting the postponement and
in all cases where this code authorizes a court or judge to allow a party
to do any act in an action, suit or proceeding upon terms, such court
or judge may as a condition of such allowance, impose upon such party

the payment of a like sum as costs.

SEC. 551. When in any action or suit for the recovery of money
or damages only, the defendant shall allege in his answer that before
the commencement thereof, be tendered to the plaintid’ a certain
amount of money in full payment or satisfaction of the cause of
action or suit, and now brings the same into court and deposits it with
the clerk for the plaintifff; if such allegation of tender be found true,
and the plaintifff do not recover a greater sum than the amount so
tendered, he shall not recover costs off the defendant, but the defendant shall recover them off him.

Sac. 552. When costs or disbursements are adjudged against an
infant plaintifff, the guardian by whom he appeared in the action or
suit, shall be responsible therefore, as if he were the actual plaintifff in

such action or suit, and payment thereof may be enforced against him
accordingly.

SEC. 553. In an action or suit prosecuted or defended by an
executor, administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a per[son ?]
expressly authorized by statute to prosecute or defend therein, costs
shall be recovered as in ordinary cases, but such costs shall only be

chargeable upon, or collected off, the estate, fund, or party represented,
unless the court or judge thereof shall order the same to be recovered

off the plaintifff or defendant personally for mismanagement or bad
faith in such action or suit, or the defense thereto.

SEC. 554. When the decision of any officer, tribunal, or court of
inferior jurisdiction, is brought before a court for review, such review,
shall for all the purposes of costs or disbursements be deemed an
appeal to such court upon errors in law, and costs therein shall be
allowed and recovered accordingly.

SEC. 555. In all actions or suits prosecuted or defended in the name
and for the use of the state, or any county or other public corporation
therein, the state, or public corporation shall be liable for and may
recover costs, in like manner and with like effect as in the case of
natural persons. VVhen a natural person is joined with the state as
plaintifff, or the action is upon the information of such natural person,
he shall be liable in the first instance for the defendant’s’costs; and
such costs shall not be recovered from the state, until after execution
issued therefore against such person and returned unsatisfied in whole
or in part.

Size. 556. The attorney of a plaintifff who resides out of the state,
or is a foreign corporation, against whom costs are adjudged in favor
of a defendant, is liable to such defendant therefore; and if he neglect
to pay the same, upon the information of such defendant shall be punished as for a contempt. The attorney may relieve or discharge himself
from such liability, by filing an undertaking, at the commencement of
the action or suit or at any time thereafter before judgment or decree,
for the payment to the defendant of the costs and disbursements that
may be adjudged to him, executed by one or more sufficient sureties.

SEC. 557. The sureties in such undertaking shall possess the qualifications of sureties in an undertaking for bail on arrest, and their
sufficiency may be excepted by the defendant at any time Within five
days from notice of filing the same, and if so, they shall justify in an
amount not less than two hundred dollars in like manner and with like
effect as such sureties for bail on arrest. Until the time for excepting
to the sufficiency of the sureties has expired, or if excepted to, until
they be found sufiicient the attorney is liable as if no undertaking had
been given. A deposit of two hundred .dollars or other sum, which
the court or judge may direct, with the clerk, may be made in lieu of
such undertaking.

SEC. 558. A/‘sum not exceeding live dollars as costs, may be allowed

to the prevailing party on a motion, in the discretion of the court, and
may be absolute, or directed to abide the event of the action or suit.
In any action suit or proceeding, as to which the allowance and recovery of costs may not be provided for in this title, or elsewhere in this
code; costs may be allowed or not, according to the measure herein

prescribed, and apportioned among the parties in the discretion of
the court.

TITLE VI.
Records and fihs‘ of court.

SEC. 559. Records of court, what constitute. 566. Jury-book, how kept.

560. Register, how kept. 567. Files of the court, what are.

561. Journal, what to be entered therein. 568. Custody of the records and files, and
562. Judgment docket, how arranged. when they maybe taken out of the
563. Execution docket, how kept. clerk's office.

564. Fee-book, whatto be entered therein. 569. Search and examination of records and
565. Final record, what to be recorded . files.

therein.

SEC. 559. The records of the circuit and county courts are a Register, Journal, Judgment docket, Execution docket, _Fee-book, Jurybook and Final record. And the records of the supreme court are the

Register, Journal and Fee-book only; but this section does not include

the books and records of the county court, pertaining  probate and
county business. 5

SEC. 560. j The register is a book wherein the clerk shall enter by
its title every action suit or proceeding, commenced in, or transferred
or appealed to, the court whereof he is clerk, according to the date of
its commencement transfer or appeal; and therealizer until the entry of
judgment, note therein according. to the date thereof, the tiling or

return of any paper or process, or the making of any order, rule, or
other direction, in or concerning such action, suit, or proceeding.

SEC. 561. The journal is a book wherein the clerk shall enter the

proceedings of the court during term time, and such proceedings in
vacation as this code specially directs.

SEC. 562. The judgment docket, is ‘a book wherein judgments and
decrees are docketed as elsewhere provided in this code. Each page
thereof shall be divided into eight columns and headed as follows:

Judgment Debtors; Judgment Creditors; Amount of Judgment;

Date of entry in Journal; When Doeketed; Appeal when taken;
Decision on Appeal; Satisfaction when entered.

SEC. 563. The execution docket, is a book wherein the clerk shall
note under the title of every cause the issue and return of execution,
and generally the filing or return of any paper or process, or the
making of any order, rule, or other direction therein, from and after
the entry of judgment or decree, until satisfaction or performance
thereof.

SEC. 564. The fee-book, is one wherein the clerk shall enter under
the title of every cause, against the party to whom the service is rendered, the clerk’s fees earned and received or not received, and none
other, except as specially directed by this code.

SEC. 565. The nnal record, is a book wherein the clerk shall record

the papers pleadings and proceedings in a cause as elsewhere provided
in this code.

SEC. ' 566. The jury-book, is one wherein the clerk shall enter the
names of the persons attending upon the court at a particular term as
grand or trial jurors, the time of the attendance of each, and when
discharged or excused, and the amount of fees and mileage earned

by each.

SEC. 567. The files of the court are all papers or process filed with
or by the clerk of the court, in any action, suit, or proceeding therein,
or before the judge thereof.

SEC. 568. The records and files of the court are to be kept in the
clerk’s ofliee in the custody of the clerk, and he is responsible for them.
They shall not be taken out of the oiiice by any one, except by the
judge of the court or an attorney thereof, when allowed by special
order of the court or judge, or some general rule therefore prescribed
by the court and entered in the journal..

SEC. 569. Whenever requested the clerk shall furnish to any person

- a certified copy of any portion of such records or files, and no person

other than such clerk is entitled to make such copy or to the use of the
records or files for such purpose. Whenever requested the clerk shall
search such records and files and give a certificate thereof according to
the nature of the inquiry, and no other person other than such clerk,
or an attorney of the court, shall be entitled to search and examine
such records or files unless he be a party in interest ‘as appears of
record, concerning the matter sought to be examined or inquired of.

CHAPTER VII.

Preliminary provisions.

Ste. 570. Parties to special proceeding, how 571. In judgment, order and motion in, dodgiknown. tion of.

SEC. 570. The party prosecuting a special proceeding shall be
knoWn'as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

SEC. 571. A judgment in a special proceeding is the final determination of the rights of the parties therein. The definition of a

motion and an order in an action are applicable to similar acts in a
special proceeding.

TITLE I.- The writ of reriettr.

TITLE II.—— The writ of mandamus.
TITLE III.— The writ of habeas corpus.
TITLE IV .— The punzlshment of contempts.

 

TITLE I.

The writ of rer:iew.

Szc. 572. Writ or certiorari, to 1,.’ known as 578. Stay of proceedings, when writ made

writ of review. returnable, and may be tried in vacation.
573. Who may prosecute writ of review. 579. “When and by whom writ issued. How
574. By whom allowed, and how applied served and proof thereof.

for, 580. Incomplete return. Limitation of writ.
575_ vvhen allowed, 581. Power of court of review. its judgment
576. Undertaking of plaintiil", when no- maybe appealed from.

the to adverse party.

577. To whom the writ directed, and return thereto. Stay of proceedings.

SEC. 572. The writ heretofore known as the writ of eertiorari, is
known in this code as the writ of review.

SEC. 573. Any party to any process or proceeding before or by
any inferior court, officer or tribunal, may have the decision or determination thereof reviewed for errors therein as in this title prescribed,
and not otherwise. Upon a review. the court may review any intermediate order-, involving the merits and necessarily affecting the
decision or determination sought to be reviewed.

SEC. 574. The writ shall be allowed by the circuit court or judge
thereof, of the county wherein the decision or determination sought. to
be reviewed was made, upon the petition of the plaintifff, describing
the same with convenient certainty, and setting forth the errors alleged
to have been committed therein. Such petition shall be signed by the
plaintifff or his attorney, and verined by the certificate of an attorney
of the court, to the effect that he has examined the process or proceeding, and the decision or determination therein, and that the'same is
erroneous as alleged in said petition.

SEC. 575. The writ shall be allowed in all cases, where there is no
appeal, or other plain, speedy and adequate remedy, and where the
inferior court officer or tribunal in the exercise of judicial functions,
appears _ to have exercised such functions erroneously, or to have
exceeded it or his jurisdiction, to the injury of some substantial right
of the plaintifff, and not otherwise.

SEC. 576. Before allowing the writ, the court or judge shall require
the plaintili, to give an undertaking to its approval with one or more
sureties in the sum of one hundred dollars, to the effect that he will
pay all costs and disbursements that may be adjudged to the defendant
on the review. Such court or judge may allow such undertaking to
be given in a sum not less than fifty dollars, when it is probable that
such sum will be suiiicient, and may also require notice of the application for the writ to be given to the adverse party, or may allow the
same without notice.

SEC. 577. The writ -shall be directed to the court, officer or tribunal
whose decision or determination is sought to be reviewed, or to the
clerk or other person having the custody of its records or proceedings,

requiring it or him, to return said writ to the circuit court from whence
the same issued, within a time therein specified, with a certilied copy

of the record or proceedings in question annexed thereto, that the
same may be reviewed by such circuit court, and requiring the defendant to desist from further proceedings in the matter to be reviewed.

SEC. 578. The words in the writ requiring a stay of proceedings
may be inserted or omitted in. the discretion of the court or judge,
and the proceedings shall he stayed or not accordingly. The writ may
be made returnable at the nextterin of the circuit court, or in vacation, and if the latter, the same may be tried and judgment given
therein, by the judge thereof, in like manner and with like effect as
in term time.

SEC. 579. Upon the filing of the order allowing the Writ and the
petition and undertaking of the plaintifff, the clerk shall issue the Writ
according the direction of the order. The writ shall be served by
delivering the original according to the direction thereof, and may be
served by any officer or person authorized to serve a summons. The
proof of service shall be the certificate or affidavit as in case of the
service of a summons, of the officer or person making the service, filed

with the clerk.

SEC. 580. If the return to the writ be incomplete, the court may
order a further return to be made. In no case shall the Writ be allowed
unless the application thereforebc made within six months from the
date of the decision or determination complained of.

SEC. 581. Upon the review the court shall have power to affirm,
modify, reverse or annul the decision or determination reviewed, and
if necessary. to award restitution to the plaintifff, or by mandate direct
the inferior court, officer or tribunal, to proceed in the matter rcxiewed
according to its decision. From the judgment of the circuit court on
review, an appeal may be taken to the supreme court in like manner
and with like effect, as from a judgment of such circuit court in an
action. '

TITLE II.

The writ of mamlamus. '

Sec. 582. Mandamus to be known as in this I 589. If defendant fail to shew cause, peremptitle. tory mandamus to issue.

583. To whom writ may issue, not to con- 590. I’le.uliugs and mode of proceeding therein.
trol judicial discretion. 591. Recovery of damages.

584. How writ applied for and [to] whom 592. Recovery of damages, 3 bar to other anallowcd and issued. tiou or suit.

585. How directed, by whom and how 593. When court may impose fine upon defendserved, and proof thereof. ant.

586. VVrit either alternative or perempto- 594. What court has jurisdiction of the prory, what to contain. ceediug by mandamus.

587. When peremptory writ shall be is- 595. How tried in the circuit and supreme
sued in first instance. court.

588. \Vhen defendant may shew cause, 596. Appeal may be taken from judgment of
and how. circuit court.

I

SEC. 582. The writ of mandamus is known in this code as prescribed and regulated in this title, and not otherwise.

SEC. 583. It may be issued to any inferior court, corporation, board,
officer, or person to compel the performance of an act, which the law
specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from an office, trust _or station.
But though the writ may require such court, corporation, board officer
or person to exercise its or his judgment, or proceed to the discharge
of any of its or his functions, it shall not control judicial discretion.
The writ shall not be issued in any case, where there is a plain, speedy,
and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of the law.

SEC. 584. The writ shall be allowed, by the court or judge thereof
upon the petition, verified as a complaint in an action, of the party
beneficially interested. It may be allowed with or without notice to
the adverse party as in the case of a writ of review. Upon the filing
of the petition and order of allowance, the writ shall be issued by the

clerk in accordance therewith.

SEC. 585. The writ shall be directed to the court, corporation, -board
officer or person mentioned or designated in the order of allowance,
and may be served thereon, by any officer or person authorized to
serve a summons, by delivery of the original to such officer or person,
or to any member of such court, or to any officer of such corporation
upon whom this code authorizes a summons to be served. The proof
of service shall be the same as in a writ of review, and obedience to
the writ may be enforced in such manner as the court or judge thereof
shall direct.

Sac. 586. The writ is either alternative or peremptory: when in
the alternative, it shall state concisely the facts, according to the petition, showing the obligation of the defendant to perform the act, and
his omission to perform it, and command him, that immediately after
the receipt of the writ, or at some other specified time, he do the act
required to be performed, or shew cause before the court or judge
thereof by whom the ,writ was allowed,‘ at a time and place therein
specified, why he has not done so; and that he then and there return
the writ, with his certificate annexed of having done as he is commanded, or the cause of his omission thereof. When peremptory the
writ shall be in a similar form, except that, the words requiring the defendant to shew cause why he hasjnot done as commanded, and to
return the cause therefore, shall be omitted.

SEC. 587. 'Whcn the right to require the performance of the act is
clear, and it is apparent, that no valid excuse can be given for not performing it, a peremptory mandamus shall be allowed in the first instance ; in all other cases, the alternative writ shall be first issued.

S150. 588. On the return day of the alternative writ, or such further
day as the court or judge thereof may allow, the defendant on whom
the writ shall have been served, may show cause by demurrer or answer to the writ, in the same manner as to a complaint in an action.

SEC. 589. If the defendant do not shew cause by demurrer or answer, a peremptory mandamus shall be allowed against him. If the
answer contain new matter the same may be demurred or replied to by
the plaintifff within such time as the court or judge may prescribe. If
the replication contain new matter, the same may be demurred to by
the defendant within such time as the court or judge may prescribe, or
he may countervail such matter on the trial or other proceedings by
proof, either in direct denial or by way of avoidance. ‘

SEC. 590. The pleadings in the proceeding by mandamus are those

mentioned in sections 588 and 589, and none other are allowed. They
are to have the same effect, and to be construed and may be amended,
in the same manner as pleadings in an action. Either party may move
to strike out, or be allowed to plead over, after motion or demurrer allowed or disallowed, and the issues joined shall be tried and the further proceedings thereon had in like manner and with like effect as in
an action.

SEC. 591. If judgment be given for the plaintifff he shall recover
the damages which he shall have sustained by reason of the premises,
to be ascertained in the same manner as in an action, together with

costs and disbursements, and a peremptory mandamus shall be awarded
without delay. ‘

SEC. 592. A recovery of damages by virtue of this title against a
party who shall have made a return to a writ of mandamus, is a bar to
any other action or suit against the same party, for the same cause.

SEC. 593. Whenever a peremptory mandamus is directed to a public officer or body commanding the performance of any public duty,
specially enjoined by law, if it appear to the court or judge thereof
that such officer, or any member of such body, has without just excuse, refused or neglected to perform the duty so enjoined, the court
or judge may impose a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars upon
every such officer or member of such body ; and the payment thereof
is a bar to any action for any penalty incurred by such oiiicer or memher, by reason of his refusal or neglect to perform the duty so enjoined.

SEC. 594. The circuit court or judge thereof of the county wherein
the defendant, if a public officer or body, exercises his or its functions,
or if a private person or corporation, wherein such person resides or
may be found, or such private corporation might be sued in an action,
shall have exclusive jurisdiction of the proceeding herein prescribed,
except that, the supreme court shall have jurisdiction of such proceeding in all cases arising in the state Where it may be necessary or proper
to enable such court to maintain its appellate jurisdiction.

SEC. 595. In the circuit court the writ may be made returnable,
either in term time or vacation, and if the latter, may be tried and determined before the judge thereof in like manner and with like effect
as in term time. In the supreme court, the writ may be allowed by
the court or any judge thereof, but shall only be tried and determined
by the court; and all issues of either fact or law therein, shall be tried
by the court.

SEC. , 596. From the judgment of the circuit court or judge thereof
refusing to allow a mandamus, or directing a peremptory mandamus,
an appeal may betaken to the supreme court in like manner and with
like effect as in an action.

TITLE III.

The acre’! of lmbcas corpus.

Sec. 597'. Definition of, and who may prose- 607. Ifsheriffiieglects,towhoui warranttoissue.
cute it. ' 608. Precept to sheriff.
598. Who not entitled to prosecute it. 609. When cause of imprisonment to be in599. Who allowed by, and application quired int-o.
therefore, 610. If no legal cause shown, discharge granted.
600. Petition for writ, what it shall con- 611. When party to be remanded.
tain. (312. In certain cases, when party discharged.
601. Writ to beallowed withoutdelay.un- 613. Legality of certain judgments and proless it appear that plaintifff not en- eess not to be inquired into.
titled to prosecute, clerk to iggue 614. Oncommitment for criminal offense, how
writ.  proceed.
609.. What the writ shall contain, 615. Until judgment given how party kept
603. Writ not to be disobeyed for want of 616. When notice to be given to third party.
form. What is gutlicient. 617. Notice, whengiven to the district attorney.
604. What the return shall contain. 618. Return may he controverted.
605. Person to be produced. 619. Return may be demurred to, and answer
606. Warraxnt to issue, in case of neglect may be also or controverted. Pleador refusal to obey the writ. ' ings effect of.

Sec. 620. When production of person dis- 629. Penalty for refusing copy of order or pro, pensed with. cess.
621, Judgment, of discharge, or digmiml 630. When district attorney may apply for writ.
of the proceeding 631. Writ, by whom served. Tender of fees,
62%. Precept requiring the production of and undertaking.
the person. 632--633. Writ, how served.
623. Obedience to judgment of discharge, 634. Duty to obey writ.
how enforced. _ 635. When charges for producing party, may
624. Person once discharged, not again be ordered paid. '
imprisoned. 636. Proof of service of writ.
6:25. When warrant to issue in lieu of 637. W'ithin what time return to be made.
babcas corpus. 638. What court has jurisdiction of the pro526. Arrest of the person having the ceeding by habeaes corpus.
custody of the party. , 639. Appeal from judgment in hubeas corpus.
6'27. Watrrant how executed, and pro- Question once determined on habeas
ceedings thereon. corpus not to be reexamined.
628. Person arrested to be committed or
bailed.

SEC. 597. The writ of habeas corpus ad subjz'cz'endum is the writ
herein designated; and every other writ of habeas corpus is abolished.
Every person imprisoned or otherwise restrained of his liberty, within
this state, under any pretense whatsoever, except in the cases specified
in the next section, may prosecute a writ of habeas corpus according
to the provisions of this title, to inquire into the cause of such imprisonment or restraint; and if illegal to be delivered therefrom.

SEC. 598. The following persons shall not be allowed to prosecute
the Writ:

1. Persons imprisoned or restrained by virtue of process issued
by a court of the United States, or a judge, or commissioner or other
officer thereof, in cases where such courts, or judges or officers thereof
have exclusive jurisdiction under the laws of the United States; or
have acquired exclusive jurisdiction by the commencement of actions,
suits or other proceedings in such courts, or before such commissioner
or other officer thereof.

2. Persons imprisoned or restrained by virtue of the judgment
or decree of a competent tribunal of civil or criminal jurisdiction, or
by virtue of an execution issued upon such judgment, or decree.

SEC. 599. The writ shall be allowed by the court or judge thereof
upon the petition of the party for whose relief it is intended, or by
some other person in his behalf, signed and verified by the oath of the
petitioner, to the effect that he believes it to be true.

SEC. 600. The petition shall state in substance :

1. That the party in whose behalf the writ is applied for, is
imprisoned, or restrained of his liberty, the place where and officer or
person by whom he is imprisoned or restrained, naming both parties if
their names be known, or describing them, if not known.

2. That such person is not imprisoned or restrained, by virtue of

any order judgment, decree, or process specified in section 598.

3. The cause or pretense of such ‘imprisonment or restraint,
according to the best knowledge or belief of the petitioner.

4. If the imprisonment or restraint be in virtue of any order
warrant, or process, a copy thereof shall be annexed to the petition, or
it must be alleged, that by reason of the removal or concealment of the
party before the application, a demand of such copy could not be made,
or that such demand was made, and the legal fees therefore tendered to
the person having the party in his custody, and that a copy was refused.

5. If the imprisonment or restraint be alleged to be illegal, in
what the alleged illegality consists.

6. That the legality of the imprisonment or restraint has not
been already adjudged, upon a prior writ of habeas corpus to the
knowledge or belief of the petitioner.

SEC. 601. The court or judge, to whom the petition is presented
must allow the writ without delay, unless it appears from the petition
itself or from the documents annexed thereto, that the person for
whose relief it is intended, is by the provisions of this title, prohibited
from prosecuting the writ. Upon the filing of the petition and the
order of allowance with the clerk, the clerk shall issue the writ immediately in accordance therewith.

SEC. 602. The writ shall command the defendant to produce the
person imprisoned or restrained, by whatsoever name he may be called
or charged, and certify and return therewith the time and cause of his
imprisonment or restraint, before the court or judge allowing the writ
at a time and place therein specified, or immediately after the receipt
of the writ, to do and receive what shall then and there be considered
concerning the person so imprisoned or restrained; or when it appears
by the petition and documents thereto annexed, that the cause, or offense for which the person is imprisoned or restrained is not- bailable,
the production of the party may be dispensed with though such production be prayed for in the petition, and the writ issued accordingly.

SEC. 603. The writ shall not be disobeyed for any defect of form.
It is sullicient:

1. If the onicer or person having the custody of the party imprisoned or restrained, be designated either by his name of oiiice, if he
have any, or by his own name, or if both such names be unknown or
uncertain, he may be described by an assumed appellation; and any
one who may be served with the writ, is to be deemed the officer or
person to whom it was directed, although it may be directed to him by
a wrong name or description, or to another person:

2. If the person who is directed to be produced, be designated
by name, or if his name be uncertain or unknown, he may [be] described
in any other way, so as to designate the person intended.

SEC. 604. The oiiicer or person upon whom ‘the Writ shall have

been duly served, shall state in his return, plainly and unequivocally:

1. W'hether he have or have not the party in his custody or power

or under his restraint, and if he have not, whether he has had the party

in his custody, or under his power or restraint at any, and what time
prior or subsequent to the date of the writ;

2. If he have the party in his custody or power, or under his restraint, the authority and true cause of such imprisonment or restraint,
setting forth the same at large;

3. If the party be detained by virtue of any writ, warrant or other
written authority, a copy thereof shall be annexed to the return, and
the original shall be produced, and exhibited on the return of the writ,
to the court or judge, before whom the same is returnable;

4. If the person upon whom such writ shall have been served,
shall have had theparty in his power or custody, or under his restraint
at any time prior or subsequent to the date of the writ, but has transferred such custody or restraint to another, the return shall state particularly to whom, at what time, for what cause, and by what authority
such transfer took place. The return shall be signed by the person
making the same, and except where such person shall be a sworn public oliicer, and shall make his return in his official capacity, it shall be

verified by oath.

SEC. 605. The person or officer on whom the habeas‘ corpus shall
have been served, shall also bring the body of the person in his custody, according to’the command of such writ, except in the case of the
sickness of such person, as hereinafter provided.

SEC. 606. If the person upon whom such writ shall have been duly
served, shall refuse or neglect to obey the same by producing the party

named in such writ, and making a full and explicit return thereto with
in the time required, and no sufiicient excuse be shown therefore, i1
shall be the duty of the court or judge before whom such writ shali
have been made returnable, upon due proof of the service thereof
forthwith to issue a warrant against such person, directed to the sheriil
of any county in this state, and commanding him forthwith to apprehend such person and bring him immediately before such court 0]
judge; and on such person being so brought, he shall be committed to
close custody in the jail of the county in which such judge shall be,
until he shall make return to such writ, and comply with any order
that may be made in relation to _the person for whose relief such writ

shall have been issued.

-830. 607. If a sheriffof any county shall have neglected to return
such writ, the warrant may be directed to any coroner or other person
to be designated therein, who shall have full power to execute the
same, and such sheriff upon being brought up, may be committed to
the jail of any county other than his own. '

SEC. 608. The court or judge, by whom any such warrant shall be
issued, may also, at the same time, or afterwards, issue a precept to the
sheriff or other person to whom such warrant shall have been directed,
commanding him to bring forthwith, before such court or judge, the
party for whose benefit such writ shall have been allowed, who shall
thereafter remain in the custody of such sheriff or person, until
discharged or remanded.

SEC. 609. The court or judge, before whom the party shall be
brought on such writ, shall immediately after the return thereof, proceed to examine into the facts contained in such return, and into the
cause of the imprisonment or restraint of such party, whether the same
shall have been upon commitment for any criminal or supposed criminal matter or not. '

SEC. 610. If no legal cause be shown for such imprisonment or restraint, or for the continuation thereof, the court or judge shall discharge such party from the custody or restraint under which he is held.

SE0. 6]]. It shall be the duty of the court or judge forthwith to
remand such party, if it shall appear that he is legally detained in custody, either:

1. By virtue of process issued by any court or judge or commissioner or other oiiicer thereof’ ofthe United: States, in a case where

such judge or court or officer thereof have conclusive jurisdiction; or

2; By virtueof the judgment or decree of any competent court
of civil or criminal jurisdiction, or of any execution issued upon such
judgment or decree ; or

3. For any contempt, ‘specially and plainly charged in the commitment, by some court, officer or body having authority to commit for
the contempt so charged; and

4. That the time during which such party may be legally
detained has not expired.

SEC. 612. If it appear on the return that the prisoner is in custody
by virtue of an order or civil process of any court legally constituted,
or issued by an officer, in the course of judicial proceedings before him,
authorized by law, such prisoner shall only be discharged in one of the

following cases : _
1. \Vhen the jurisdiction of such court or oiiicer has been

exceeded, either as to matter, place, sum or person; i

2. "When, though the original imprisonment was lawful, yet by
some act, omission or event which has taken place afterwards, the party
has become entitled to be discharged;

3. When the order or -process is defective in some matter of
substance required by law, rendering such process void;

4. When the order or process, though in proper form, has been
issued in a case not allowed by law; I 5. When the person having the custody of the prisoner under
such order or process, is not the person empowered by law to detain
him; or

6. Vv'hen the order or process is not authorized by any judgment
or decree of any court, nor by any provision of law.

SEC. 613. But no court or judge, on the return of a writ of habeas
corpus, has power to inquire into the legality or justice of any order
judgment or process speeitied in section 598, nor into the justice, propriety or legality of any commitment for a contempt made by a court
officer or a body, according to law, and charged in such commitment,
as provided in this code.

SEC. 614. If it appear that the party has been legally committed
for a criminal offense, or if he appear by the testimony offered with

the return, or upon the hearing thereof, to be probably guilty of such
offense’; although the commitment be irregular, he shall forthwith be

remanded to the custody, or placed under the restraint from
which he was taken, if the officer or person under Whose custody or
restraint he was, be legally entitled thereto : if not so entitled, he shall
be committed to the custody of the officer or person so entitled.

SEC. 615. Until judgment be given upon the return, the party may
be either committed to the custody of the sheriff of the county or
placed in such care, or under such custody as his age and other circumstances may require.

SEC. 616. .\Vhen it appears from the return to the writ, that the
party named therein is in custody on an order, or process under which
an other person has an interest in continuing his imprisonment or restraint, no. order shall be made for his discharge, until it shall appear
that the party so interested, or his attorney, shall have had notice of
the time and place at which such writ shall have been made returnable‘.

SEC. 617. When it appears from the return, that the party is imprisoned or restrained on a criminal accusation, the court or judge
shall make no orderfor his discharge until notice of the return is given
to the district attorney of the county, where the party is imprisoned or
restrained.

SEC. 618. The plaintifff in the proceeding on the return of the writ
may, by replication, verified as in an action, controvert any of the material facts set forth in the return, or he may allege therein any fact, to
show, either that his imprisonment or restraint is unlawful, or that he
is entitled to his discharge; and, thereupon, the court or judge shall
proceed in a summary way to hear such evidence as may be produced
in support of . the imprisonment or restraint, or against the same, and
to dispose of the party, as the law and justice of thecase mayrequire.

SEC. 619. The plaintifff may demur to the return, or the defendant
may demur to the .new matter, if any, set forth in the replication of
the plaintifff, or by proof controvert the same, as upon a direct denial
or avoidance. The pleadings herein provided for shall be made Within
such time as the court or judge shall direct, and they shall be construed
and have the same effect as in an action.

SEC. 620. VVhenever from the sickness or infirmity of the party,
he cannot, Without danger, be produced, the oiiicer or person in whose
custody he is, may state that fact in his return to the Writ, and if satisfied of the truth of the allegation, and the return be otherwise suiiicient, the court or judge shall proceed to decide on the return, and to

dispose of the matter in the same manner  if the party had been
produced. '

Size. 621. If it appear that the party detained is illegally imprisoned
or restrained, judgment shall be given that he be forthwith discharged;
otherwise judgment shall be given that the proceeding be dismissed
and the party remanded. ~

SEC. 622. Notwithstanding the issuing of the writ without requiring the production of the person, the court or judge before whom the
same was returnable, may. before final decision, issue a precept to the
officer or other person to whom the writ was directed, requiring the
production of the person.

SEC. 623. Obedience to a judgment, for the discharge of a person
imprisoned or restrained, pursuant to the provisions of this title may
be enforced by the court or judge, by proceedings for a contempt. No
officer or other person is liable to any action or proceeding, for obeying
such judgment of discharge.

SEC. 624. No person who has been iinally discharged, upon a proceeding by habeas corpus, pursuant to the provisions of this title, shall
be again imprisoned, restrained or kept in custodyfor the same cause;
but it is not to be deemed the same cause:

1. If he have been discharged from a commitment on a criminal
charge, and be afterwards committed for the same offense, by the legal
order or process of the court, wherein he is bound, by recognizance
or undertaking to appear, or in which he is indicted or convicted for
the same offense; or

' 2. If, after a judgment of discharge for a defect of evidence, or
for a material defect in the commitment, in a criminal case, the party
he again arrested, on suihcient evidence, and committed by legal
process, for the same offense; or, ,

3. If, in a civil action or suit the party have been discharged for
any illegality in the judgment, decree or process herein before specified,
and be afterwards imprisoned for the same cause of action or suit; or,

5. If, in a civil action or suit, he have been discharged from commitment on a writ of arrest, and be afterwards committed on execution,
in the same action or suit, or on a writ of arrest in another action or
suit, aiter the dismissal of the first one.

Sac. 625. Whenever it appears by satisfactory evidence that any
person is illegally imprisoned or restrained and that there is good reason to believe that he will be carried out of the state or suffer some
irreparable injury before he can be relieved by the issuing of a habeas
corpus, any court or judge authorized to issue such writ, may issue a
warrant reciting the facts, and directed to any sheriff, or other person,
therein designated, commanding such oiiicer or person to take such
person, and forthwith to bring him before such court or judge, to be

dealt with according to law.

SEC. 626. When the proof mentioned in the last section, shall also
be sutiicient to justify an arrest of the person having the party in his
custody, as for a criminal offense, committed in the taking or detaining
of such party, the warrant may also contain an order for the arrest of
such person for such offense.

Sac. 627. Any oliicer or person to whom such warrant shall be

directed, shall execute the same by bringing the party therein named,
and the person who detains him, if so commanded by the warrant, before the court or judge issuing the same; and thereupon the person
detaining such party shall make a return in like manner, and the like
proceedings shall be had thereon as if a writ of habeas corpus had
been issued in the first instance.

SEC. 628. If the person having such party in his custody, be
brought before the court or judge as for a criminal offense, he shall be
examined, committed, bailed or discharged by the court or judge in
like manner as in other criminal cases of the like nature.

Sac. 629. Any oiiicer or other person, refusing to deliver a copy of
any order, warrant, process or other authority, by which he shall detain
any person, to any one who shall demand such copy, and tender the
fees therefore, shall forfeit two hundred dollars to the person so detained.

SEC. 630. Whenever a writ of habeas corpus is required, in any
action, suit or proceeding, civil or criminal, to which the state is a party,
the application therefore may be made by the district attorney having
charge thereof, and whenever so issued, the court or judge shall state
in the order of allowance that it was issued on such application.

SEC. 631. A writ of habeas corpus may be served by the sheriff of
any county in the state,‘ within his county, or by any other person
therein designated in any county within the state, and the service
thereof, shall not be deemed complete, so as to require the prisoner to
be brought up before the court or judge issuing the same, unless the

party serving the same, shall tender to the person in whose custody the

prisoner may be, if such person be a sheriff, or other officer, the fees
allowed by law for bringing up such prisoner‘; nor unless he shall also
enter into an undertaking to such sheriff, or other officer, as the case
may be, in a penalty double the amount of the sum for which such
prisoner may be detained, 'if he be detained for any specific sum of
money; and if not, then in such a sum as the judge granting the writ
shall direct, not exceeding one thousand dollars, to the effect that such
person shall pay the charges for carrying back such prisoner if he shall
be remanded, and that such prisoner will not escape by the way, either
in going to or returning from the place to which he is to be taken. If
such fees be not paid, or such security be not tendered, the ethcer to
whom the writ is directed, shall make return thereto, in the manner
required by section 604, and shall state therein the reason why such
prisoner is not produced, and thereupon the court or judge granting
the Writ, may proceed as if the prisoner were produced. But this section from and inclusive of the words “and the service thereof,” does
not apply to a case wherein the writ is issued on the application of the
district attorney.

SEC. 632. The writ of habeas corpus may be served by delivery of
the original to the officer or person to Whom it is directed, or if he
cannot be found by leaving it at the jail or other place in which the
partyis imprisoned or restrained, with any under oilicer or other person having charge for the time of such party.

SEC. 633. If the officer or person on whom the writ ought to be
served, conceal himself, or refuse admittance to the person attempting
to serve it, it may be served by ailixing it in some conspicuous place
on the outside, either of his dwelling house or the jail or other place
where the party is confined.

SEC. 634. It is the duty of every sheriff or other officer upon whom
a. writ of habeas corpus has been served, whether such Writ be directed
to him or not, upon payment or tender of the fees allowed by law, and
the delivery or tender of the undertaking herein prescribed, to obey
and return the writ according to the exigency thereof; and it is the
duty of every other person, upon whom the writ is served, having the
custody of the person, for whose benefit it is‘i‘ssued to obey and return
it in like manner, without requiring the payment of any fees, unless
the payment of such fees has been required by the court or judge
allowing such Writ. ’ '

SEC. 635. Every court or judge allowing a writ of habeas corpus
directed to a person other than a sheriff or other officer, may, in its
discretion, require in order to render the service etfectual, that the
charges of producing the party be paid by the applicant; and in such
case the court or judge shall, in the order allowing the writ, specify
the amount of such charges, which shall not exceed the fees allowed
by law to sheriffs for similar services.

SEC. 636. The proof of service of the writ of habeas corpus shall
be the same as in the service of a summons, except that the same shall
be endorsed upon a copy of the writ made by the officer or person
serving it, and returned to the clerk who issued the writ.

SEC. 637. Ifthe writ be returnable at a certain time, such return
shall be made, and the party produced if required, or there be no
valid excuse therefore, as herein provided, at the time and place specified therein, if it be returnable forthwith, and the place of return be
within twenty miles of the place of service-, the return must be made
and the party produced within twenty-four hours, and the same time
is allowed for every additional twenty miles.

SEC. 638. The circuit court of the judicial district wherein the
party is imprisoned or restrained, shall have exclusive jurisdiction of
the proceeding by habeas corpus herein provided for: except that, the
county court of the county wherein the party is imprisoned. or
restrained, may allow the writ or the warrant in lieu thereof provided for
in section 6:25, and in such case such writ or warrant shall be made
returnable before the circuit court, at the next term thereof for such
county. At any time after the allowance of such writ or warrant by
the county court or judge, the plaintifff therein, or the person applying
therefore on his behalf, may give notice thereof to the judge of such
circuit court, and thereupon if necessary to avoid delay, such judge
shall by order require that the return he made, and the party produced
before him at such ‘time and place within the.dist.rict as may be
convenient.

SEC. 639. Any party to a proceeding by habeas corpus, including
the state when the district attorney appears ‘therein, may appeal from

' the judgment of the circuit court refusing to allow_s11el1 writ, or any
' nnal judgment therein, either in term time or vacation, to the supreme

court, in like manner and with like effect as in an action. No ques- tion once finally determined upon a proceeding by habeas corpus, shall

be re-examined upon another or subsequent proceeding of the same
kind.

TITLE IV.
The pzmishment of contempts.
Sec. 640. Contempts defined. " , 648. Return of warrant, and proceedings on
641. Punishment for contempt. appcannce of put’,

642. In presence of court, how puniehed. 649. Determination and nonsense,
643. In other cases, mode of proceeding. 650. Judgment may also be given to indemnity

644. If defendant imprisoned, may he puny injured,
M00853 09- 651. When party maybe imprisoned. until he
645. State is plaintiff, when district at- pg;-fog-mg,
tomey may prosecute. 65?. Person also liable to indictment.
646. Warrant to direct, whether defend "653. If party do not appear, proceedings
ant shall be bailed or not, how ;],.no._ ,
warrant executed. w. Appeal from judgment,

647. Bail how given.

SEC. 640. The following acts, or omissions, in respect to a court of
justice, or proceedings therein, are deemed to be contempts of the

authority of the court:
1. Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior toward the

judge ‘While holding the court, tending to impair its authority, or to
interrupt the due course of a trial, or other judicial proceeding;

3. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial
proceeding:

3. Misbehavior in oiiice, or other willful neglect or violation of
duty, by an attorney, clerk, sheriff, or other person appointed or selected
to perform a judicial or ministerial service;

4. Deceit, or abuse of the process or proceedings of the court, by
a party of an action, suit or special proceeding; '

5. Disobedience of any lawful judgment, decree, order or process of the court;
6. Assuming to be an attorney or other officer of the court, and

acting as such without authority in a particular instance ;
7. Rescuing any person or property in the custody of an officer

by virtue of an order or process of such court;
8. Unlawfully detaining a witness orparty to an action, suit or
proceeding, while going to, remaining at, or returning from the court,

Where the same is for trial ;

9. Any other unlawful interference with the process or proceedings of a court;

10. Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be
sworn or answer as a witness; _

11. When summoned as a juror in a court, improperly conversing
with a party to an action, suit or proceeding to be tried at such court,
or with any other person in relation to the merits of such action, suit
or proceeding, or receiving a communication from a party or other
person in respect to it, without immediately disclosing the same to
the court;

12. Disobedience by an inferior tribunal, magistrate, or officer of
the lawful judgment, decree, order or process of a superior court, or
proceeding in an action, suit, or proceeding contrary to law, after such
action, suit or proceeding shall have been removed from the jurisdiction
of such inferior tribunal, magistrate, or officer.

The conduct specined in subdivisions 1 and 2 of this section, when
committed before a judicial officer, or disobedience of the lawful order
or process of such officer, made in the cases specified in section 890, is
also to be deemed a contempt of the authority of such officer.

SEC. 641. Every court of justice, and every judicial officer, has
power to punish contempts: by fine or imprisonment, or both. But
such line shall not exceed three hundred dollars, nor the imprisonment
six months ; and when the contempt is not one of those mentioned in
the first and second subdivisions of the last section, or in the first subdivision of section 890, it must appear that the right or remedy of a
party to an action, suit or proceeding was defeated or prejudiced
thereby, before the contempt can be punished otherwise than by a fine
not exceeding one hundred dollars.

SEC. 642. “Then a contempt is committed in the immediate View
and presence of the court or officer, it may be punished summarily, for
which an’ order must be made reciting the facts as occurring in such
immediate view and presence, determining that the person proceeded
against, is thereby guilty of a contempt, and that he be punished as
therein prescribed.

SEC. 643. In cases other than those mentioned in section 642,

before any proceedings can be taken therein, the facts constituting the
contempt must be shown by an affidavit presented to the court or
judicial officer, and thereupon such court or oiiicer, may either make
an order upongthe person charged to show cause why he should not be

arrested to answer, or issue a warrant of arrest to bring such person to
answer in the first instance.

SEC. 644. If the party charged be in the custody of an officer, by
virtue of a legal order or process, civil or criminal, except upon a.
sentence for a felony, an order may be made for the production of such
person by the officer having him in custody, that he may answer and
he shall thereupon be produced and held, until an order be made for

his disposal. _

SEC. 645. In the proceeding for a contempt, the state is the plaintifff. In all cases of public interest the proceeding may be prosecuted
by the district attorney on behalf of the state and in all cases where

the proceeding is commenced, upon the relation of a private party,
such party shall be deemed a co-plaintifff with the state.

SEC. 646. \Vhenever a warrant of arrest is issued, pursuant to this
title, the court or judicial officer shall direct therein, whether the person charged may be let to bail for his appearance upon the warrant, or
detained in custody without bail, and if he may be bailed, the amount
in which he may be let to bail. Upon executing the warrant of arrest,
the sheriff must keep the person in actual custody, bring him before

-the court or judicial officer, and detain him until an order be made in

the premises, unless the person arrested entitle himself to be discharged,
as provided in section 647.

SEC. 647. The defendant shall be discharged from the arrest, upon
executing and delivering to the sheriff, at any time before the return
day of the warrant, an undertaking, with two sufficient sureties, to the
effect that the defendant will appear on such return day, and abide the

order or judgment of the court or ofiieer thereupon, or pay, as may be
directed, the sum specified in the warrant. ‘

SEC. 648. The sheriff shall return the warrant of arrest, and the
undertaking, if any, given him by the defendant, by the return day
therein specified. \Vhen the defendant has been brought up or
appeared, the court or judicial oiiicer, shall proceed to investigate the
charge by examining such defendant, and witnesses for or against him,
for which an adjournment may be had from time to time, if necessary.

SEC. 649. Upon the evidence so taken, the court or judicial officer
shall determine whether or not the defendant is guilty of the contempt
charged, and if it be determined that he is so guilty, shall sentence
him to be punished as provided in this title. 6

SEC. 650. If any loss or injury to a party in an action, suit or proceeding, prejudicial to his rights therein, have been caused by the contempt, the court or judicial officer, in addition to the punishment
imposed for‘ the contempt, may give judgment that the party aggrieved recover off the defendant a sum of money sufficient to indemnify him, and to satisfy his costs and disbursements, which judgment,
and the acceptance of the amount thereof, is a bar to any action, suit
or proceeding by the aggrieved party for such loss or injury.’

SEC. 651. When the contempt consists in the omission or refusal
to perform an act which is yet in the power of the defendant to perform, he may be imprisoned until he shall have performed it, and in
such case the act must be specified in the warrant of commitment.

SEC. 652. Persons proceeded against, according to the provisions of
this title, are also liable to indictment for the same misconduct, if it
be an indictable offense, but the court before which a conviction is had
on the indictment in passing sentence, shall take into consideration the
punishment before inflicted.

SEC. 653. When the warrant of arrest has been returned served, if
the defendant do not appear on the return day, the court or judicial
officer may issue another Warrant of arrest, or may order the under-‘
taking to be prosecuted, or both. If the undertaking be prosecuted,
and the aggrieved party join in the action, and the sum specified
therein be recovered; so much thereof as will compensate such party
for the loss or injury sustained by reason of the misconduct for which
the warrant was issued, shall be deemed to be recovered for such party

exclusively.

SEC. 654. Either party to a judgment in a proceeding for a contempt, may appeal therefrom, in like manner, and with like effect as
from a judgment in an action, but such appeal shall not have the effect
to stay the proceeding, in any other action, suit or proceeding, or upon
any judgment, decree or order therein, concerning Which, orfwherein
such contempt was committed. ' Contempts of justices’ courts are
punishable in the manner specially provided in the procedure before

them.

CHAPTER VIII.
General de_/initions.

Sec. 655. Definition of evidence and proof. I am. Definition of indirect evidence.
656. Deiinition of law of evidence. 664. Deiinition of primary evidence.
657. The degree of certainty necessary to 665. Dednition of partial evidence.
establish a fact. ' 666. Dednition of satisfactory evidence.
658. Kinds of evidenee,.fonr in number. 667. Dehnition of indispensable evidence.
659. Degrees of evidence. 66& Definition of conclusive evidence.
660. Definition of original evidence. 669. Detinition of cumulative evidence.
66!. De6nition of secondary evidence. 670. Dehnition of corroborative evidence.

662. Definition of direct evidence.

SEC. 655. Judicial evidence is the‘means, sanctioned by law, of
ascertaining in a judicial proceeding the truth respecting a question of
fact. Proof is the effect of evidence, the establishment of a fact by
evidence.

Sec. 656. The law of evidence which is the subject of this chapter
and chapters IX. and X. is a collection of general rules established by
law :
1. For declaring what is to be taken as true without proof ;

2. For declaring the presumptions of law, both those which are
disputable and those which ‘are conclusive; and ' 3. For the production of legal evidence;
. 4. For the exclusion of whatever is not legal;
5. For deterniining in certain cases the value and effect of
evidence.

Sac. 657. The law does not require demonstration, that is, such a
degree of proof as, excluding possibility of error produces absolute
certainty ; because such proof is rarely possible. Moral certainty only
is required, or that degree of proof, which produces conviction in an
unprejugliced mind. .

Sac.‘ 658. There are four kinds of evidence:

1.. The knowledge of the court;

2. The’ testimony of witnesses;

3. Writings;

4. Other material objects presented to the senses.

SEC. 659. There are ‘several degrees of evidence:

1. Original and secondary ;
2. Direct and indirect;

3. Primary, partial, satisfactory, indispensable and conclusive.

SEC. 660. Original evidence is an original writing or material
object introduced in evidence.

SEC. 661. Secondary evidence is a copy of such-o1fi_ginal',wr_iti.ng or
object or oral evidence thereof‘. _ p  . _ . 3;.) 
SEC. 662. Direct evidence is that which proves the fact in ilispute,
directly, without an inference or presumption, and which in itself, if
true, conclusively establishes that fact. For example: If the fact in
dispute be an agreement, the evidence of a witness’ who was préisent

and witnessed the making of it, is direct.

SEC. 663. Indirect evidence is that which tends to establish the
fact in dispute by provinganother, and which, though true, does not

of itself, conclusively establish that fact, but which affords an inference or presumption of its existence. For examplei A witness proves
an admission of the party to the fact in dispute. This proves a fact,
from which the fact in dispute is inferred.

SEC. 664.. Primary evidence is that, which suffices for the proof of
a particular fact, until contradicted and overcome by other evidence.
For example, the certificate of a recording ofheer  primary evidence
of a record; but it may be afterwards overcome upon proof that there
is no such record. '

SEC. 665. Partial evidence is that, which goes to establish a
detached fact, in a series tending to the fact in dispute. It may be
received, subject to be rejected as incompetent, unless connected with
the fact in dispute, by proof of other facts. For example, on an issue
of title to real property, evidence of the continued possession of a
remote occupant is partial, for it is of a detached fact, which may or
may not be afterwards connected with the main fact in dispute. -' ‘

SEC. 666. That evidence is deemed satisfactory, which ordinarily
produces moral certainty, or conviction in an unprejudiced .mind.
Such evidence alone will justify a verdict. Evidence less than this is
denominated insuiiicient evidence.

SEC. 667. Indispensable evidence is that, without which a particular
fact cannot be proved.

SEC. 668. Conclusive or unanswerable evidence is that, which the
law does not permit to be contradicted. For example, the record
of a court of competent jurisdiction cannot be contradicted by the
parties to it.

SEC. 669. Cumulative evidence is additional evidence of the same

character, to the same point.

SEC. 670. Corroborative evidence. is additional evidence of a different character, to the same point.

Sac.

TITLE
TITLE
TITLE
TITLE
TITLE
TITLE
TITLE
TITLE

III.— Witnesses.

V.—Pnblz’c u:rz7t2'ng.3.

TITLE I.

IV.— Wrz'tz.’n_qs in general.

I.—0f the general principles qf evidence.
II.—-Of the lcnozcledge of the court.

VI.—PI‘e't*hte writinfjs and material olgjects.
VII.—Ind¢'rect evidence; inferences and presumptions.
VIII.—Indt'spensable evidence.

 the general prz'ncz'ples of e2n'(lc7lcc.

671. One witness sufiicieut to prove a
fact.

672. Testimony confined to p e rs o n a 1
knowledge,‘ and upon oath or aftirmation.

673. Witness presumed to speak the truth.

How presumption overcome.

One person not prejudiced by acts of
another, unless by virtue of a particular relation.

675. Acts of predecessor in title evidence.

676. Acts which are part of the transaction.

67?’. Evidence relating to third persons.

68. Evidence of pedigree.

679. Declarations of deceased persons,
when evidence against his success674.

or in interest.

680. \VlIen part of a transaction proved,
the whole is admissible.

68!. Contents of a writing, how proved.

682. An agreement reduced to writing, to
be deemed to include all its terms.

683. Construction of language, relates to
place where instrument executed,
unless otherwise expressed.

G8-4. Construction of statutes and instruments, general rule.

685.

686.
1

I ass.
l

690.’

691.

692.‘

693.

694.
l
l
! 695.
l

696.

Intention to govern, particular provision
to control general one.

In the construction of an instrument the
circumstances under which it was made
may be considered.

Terms of a writing to be construed in
their general acceptation, unless sbewn
otherwise.

\Vritten words control printed ones.

Persons may testify to decipher characters
or to translate language unknown to the
court.

Of two constructions of an instrument,
which preferred.

VVritten notice construed according to ordinary acceptation.

Statute to be construed in favor of natural
right.

Material allegation only to be proved.

Evidence confined to material allegations.
When court may allow inquiry as to a
collateral fact.

Afiirmative allegation only to be proved,
unless negative essential to cause of action or defense.

Facts which may be proved on trial.

SEC. 671. The direct evidence of one witness,-who is entitled to
full credit, is suiiieient for proof of any fact, except usage, peljury
and treason.

SEC. 672. A witness can be heard only upon oath or affirmation,
and he can testify of those facts only which he knows of his own
knowledge, that is, which are derived from his own perceptions;
except in those few express cases, in which his opinions, or inferences
or the declarations of others, are admissible. I

SEC. 673. A witness is presumed to speak the truth. This presumption, however, may be overcome by the manner in which he
testifies, by the character of his testimony, or by evidence affecting his
character or motives, or by contradictory evidence; and where the
trial is by the jury, they are the exclusive judges of his credibility.

SEC. 674. The rights of a party cannot be prejudiced ‘by the
declaration, act or omission of another, except by virtue of a particular
relation between them.

SEC. 675. \Vhere, however, one derives title, to real property from
another, the declaration, act or omission of the latter, while holding
the title, in relation to, the property is evidence against the former.

SEC. 676. \Vhere, also, the declaration, act or omission, forms part
of a transaction, which is itself the fact in dispute or evidence of that
fact, such declaration, act or omission, is evidence as part of the
transaction.

SEC. 677. And where the question in dispute between the parties,
is the obligation or duty of a third person, whatever would be evidence
for or against such person, is’ primary evidence between the parties.

SEC. 678. The declaration, act or omission of a member of a family,
who is deceased, or out of the state, is also admissible as evidence of

common reputation, in cases where, on questions of pedigree, such
reputation is admissible.

SEC. 679. The declaration, act or omission of a deceased,,person,
having sutiicient knowledge of the subject, against his pecuniary
interest, is also admissible as evidence to that extent, against his
successor in interest. ,

SEC. 680. \Vhen part of an act, declaration, conversation or

writing, is given in evidence by one party, the whole, on the same
subject, may be inquired into by the other; when a letter is read the

answer may be given; and when a detached act, declaration, conversation or writing is given in evidence, any other act, declaration, eonversation or writing, which is necessary to make it understood, may
also be given in evidence.

SEC. 681. There shall be no evidence of the contents of a writing,
other than the writing itself, except in the following cases: '

1. When the original is in the possession of the party against
whom the evidence is offered, and he withholds it under the circumstances mentioned in section 749;

2. When the original cannot be produced, by the party by whom
the evidence is offered, in a reasonable time, with proper diligence,
and its absence is not owing to his neglect or default;

3. When the original is a- record, or other document, in the
custody of a public officer;

4. When the original is a record or other document, of which a
certified copy is expressly made evidence by this code or some other
statute of the state ;

5. VVhen the originals consist of numerous accounts, or other
documents, which cannot be examined in court, without great loss of
time, and the evidence sought from them, is only the general result of
the whole.

In the cases mentioned in subdivisions 3 and 4 a copy of the original
shall beproduced; in those mentioned in subdivisions 1 and 2, either
a copy or oral evidence of the contents.

SEC. 682. When the terms of an agreement have been reduced to
writing by the parties, it is to be considered as containing all those
terms, and thereforee there can be, between the parties and their
representatives, or successors in interest, no evidence of the terms of
the agreement, other than the contents of the writing, except in the
following cases: ‘

1. VVhere a mistake or imperfection of the writing is put in
issue by the pleadings;

2. Where the validity of the agreement is the fact in dispute.
But this section does not exclude other evidence of the circumstances
under which the agreement was made, or to which it relates, as defined
in section 686, or to explain an ambiguity, intrinsic or extrinsic, or to
establish illegality or fraud. The term agreement includes deeds "and
wills, as well as contracts between parties.

SEC. 683. The language of awriting is to be interpreted, according
to the meaning it bears in the place of its execution, unless the parties

have reference to a diiferent place.

SEC. 684. In the construction of a statute or instrument, the office

of the judge is simply to ascertain and declare, what is, ‘in terms or in
substance, contained therein, not to insert what has been omitted, or
to omit what has been inserted; and, where there are several provisions or particulars, such construction is, if possible, to be adopted. as

will give effect to all.

SEC. 685. In the construction of ‘a. ‘statute, the intention of thelegislature, and in the construction of an instrument, the intention of!’

the parties, is to be pursued if possible ; and when. a general and particular provision are inconsistent, the latter is paramount to the former.
So a particular intent shall control a general one, that is inconsistent

with it.

SEC. 686. For the proper construction of an instrument, the circumstances under which it was made, including the situation of the
subject of the instrument, and of the parties to it, may also be shown,
so that the judge be placed in the position of those, whose language
he is to interpret.

SEC. 687. The terms of a writing are presumed.to- have been used
in their primary and general acceptation, but evidence is nevertheless
admissible, that they have a. technical, local, or otherwise peculiar
signification, and were so used‘ and understood in the particular
instance, in which case the agreement shall be construed accordingly.

SEC. 688. When an instrument consists partly of written words,
and partly of a printed form, and the two are inconsistent, the former
controls the latter.

SEC. 689. Wlien the characters, in which an instrument is Written,
are difficult to be deeyphered, or the language of the instrument is not
understood by the court, the evidence of persons skilled in deciphering
the characters, or who understand the language, is admissible to declare

the characters or the meaning of the language.

SEC. 690. \Vhen the terms of ‘an agreement have been intended‘
in a different sense by the different parties to it, that sense is to prevail,
against either party, in which be supposed the other understood it;
and when different constructions of a provision are otherwise equally

proper, that is to be taken which is most favorable to the party, in
whose favor the provision was made.

SEC. 691. A written notice, is to be construed according to the
ordinary acceptation of its terms. Thus a notice to the drawers or
endorsers of a bill of exchange or promissory note, that it has been
protested for want of acceptance or payment, shall be held to import
that the same has been duly presented for acceptance or payment, and
the same refused, and that the holder looks for payment, to the person

to whom the notice is given.

SEC. 692. Where a statuto is equally susceptible of two interpretations, one in favor of natural right, and the other against it, the
former is to prevail.

SEC. 693. None but a material allegation need be proved.

SEC. 694. Evidence shall correspond with the substance of the
material allegations and be relevant to the questions in dispute. Collateral questions shall thereforee be avoided. It is however within the
discretion of the court to permit inquiry into a collateral fact, when
such fact is directly connected with the question in dispute, and is
essential to its proper determination, or when it affects the credibility

of a witness.

SEC. 695. Each party shall prove his own afiirmative allegations.
'Ex'idence need ‘not be given in support of a negative allegation, except
when such negative allegation is an essential part of the statement of
the right or title, on which the cause of action or defense is founded,

I nor even in such case when the allegation is the denial of the existence

of a document, the custody of which belongs to the adverse party.

Sac. 696. In conformity with the preceding provisions, evidence
may be given on the trial, of the following facts:

1. The precise fact. in dispute; ,

2. The declaration, act or omission of a party as evidence against
sucll party ; _

3. A declaration or act of another, in the presence and within
the observation of a party, and his conduct in relation thereto ;

4. The declaration or act, verbal or written, of a deceased person,
in respect to the relationship, birth, marriage or death of any person
related by blood or marriage to such deceased person ; the declaration
or act of a deceased person, made or done against his interest in respect
to his real property; and also in criminal actions, the declaration or

act of a dying person, made or done under a sense of impending death,
respecting the cause of his death;

5. After proof of a partnership or agency, the declaration or act
of a partner or agent of the party, within the scope of the partnership
or agency, and during its existence; the same rule applies to the declaration or act of a joint owner, joint debtor or other person jointly
interested with-the party;

6. After proof of a conspiracy, the declaration or act of a conspirator against his co-conspirator, and relating to the conspiracy:

7. The declaration, act or omission forming part of the transaction, as explained in section 676. , A

8. The testimony of a witness, deceased, or out of the state, or
unable to testify, given in a former action, suit or proceeding, or trial
thereof between the same parties, relating to the same matter":

9. The opinion of a witness respecting the identity or handwriting of a person, when he has knowledge of the person or handwriting; his opinion on a question of -science, art or trade, when he is
skilled therein; . i

10. The opinion of a subscribing witness to a writing, the validity
of which is in dispute, respecting the mental sanity of the signer, and
the opinion of an intimate acquaintance, respecting the mental sanity
of a person, the reason for the opinion being given;

11. Common reputation, existing previous to the controversy,
respecting facts of a public or general interest, more than thirty years

old, and in cases of pedigree and boundary;
12. Usage, to explain the true character of an act, contract or

instrument, where such true character is not otherwise plain, but .

usage is never admissible except as a means of interpetration; . p . p

13. Monuments and inscriptions in public places, as evidence of
common reputation, and entries in family bibles or other family books
or charts, engravings on rings, family portraits, and the like as evidence of pedigree; ' _

14. The contents of a writing when oral evidence thereof is
admissible; ,

15. Any other facts from which the facts in issue are presumed,

or are logically inferrable;
16. Such facts as arve to shew the credibility of’ a witness, as

explained in section 673.

TITLE II.
Knowledge of the Cburt. ,

SIC. 697. Certain facts, sssumedto be true. I 698. Specification of such facts.

See. 697. There are certain facts of such general notoriety, that
they are assumed to be already known to the court. Of those facts
evidence need not be produced. ' '

SEC. 698. The following facts are assumed to be thus known:

1. The true signification of all English words and phrases, and
all legal expressions ;

2. Whatever is established by law ;

3. Public and ‘private oiiicial acts of the legislative, executive,
and judicial departments of this state and of the United States;

4. The seals of all the courts of this state and of the United
States; .

5. The accession to otiiee, and the ofiicial signatures and seals of
oiiice, of the principal officers of government, in the legislative,
executive and judicial departments of this state, and _of the United
States;

6. The existence, title, national hag and seal of every state or
sovereign recognized by the executive power of the United States;

7. The seals of courts of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
and of notaries public;

8. The laws of nature, the measure of time, and the geographical
divisions and political history of the World;

In all these cases, the court may resort for its aid to appropriate
books or documents of reference.

TITLE III.
Witnesses.
‘B30. 699. ‘VIIMOOB dedned. 702. Persons in certain relstionsto parties.
700. Who may be witnesses. 703. What deemed a consent by the party to
101. '-Who cannot be witnesses. the examination of privileged persons.

SEC. 699. ‘A witness is a person Whose deglaration under oath or

afiirmafion is received as evidence for any purpose, whether such
declaration be made on oral examination, or by deposition or affidavit.

Sec. 700. All persons without exception, except as otherwise

provided in this title, who, having organs of sense can perceive, and
perceiving can make known their perceptions to others, may be
witnesses. Therefore neither parties, nor other persons who have an
interest in the event of an action, suit oriproeeeding, are excluded;
nor those who have been convicted of crime; nor persons on account
of their opinions on matters of religious belief; although in every
case, except the latter, the credibility of the witness may be drawn in
question, as provided in section 673.

SEC. 701. The following persons are not admissible:

1. ' Those of unsound mind at the time of their production for
examination ;

2. Children under ten years of age, who appear incapable of
receiving just impressions of the facts, respecting which they are
examined, or of relating them truly.‘

Size. 702. There are particular relations, in which it is the policy of
the law to encourage confidence, and to. preserve it inviolate ; thereforee,
a person cannot be examined as a Witness in the following cases:

‘I. A husband shall not be examined, for or against his wife,
without her consent, nor a wife, for or against her husband, Without
his consent, nor can either, during the marriage or afterwards, be,
Without the consent of the other, examined, as to any communication
made by one to the other during the marriage, But the exception
does not apply to a civil action, suit or proceeding, by one against the
other, nor to a criminal action or proceeding for a crime committed by
one against the other;

2. An attorney shall not, without the consent of his client, be
examined, as to any communication made by the client to him, or his
advice given thereon, in the course of professional employment;

3. A priest, or clergyman shall not, without the consent of the
person making the confession, be examined as to any confession made
to him in his professional character, in the course of discipline, enjoined
by the church to which he belongs;

4. A regular physician or surgeon shall not, without the consent
of his patient, be examined in a civil action, suit or proceeding, as to
any information acquired in attending the patient, which was necessary
to enable him to prescribe or act for the patient.

5. A public officer shall not be examined as to communications
made to him in official confidence, when the public interests would
suffer by the disclosure.

SEC. 703. If a party to the action suit or proceeding offer himself
as a Witness, that is to be deemed a consent to the examination also,
of a Wife, husband, attorney, clergyman, physician or surgeon on the
same subject within the meaning of the first four subdivisions of the
last section.

TITLE IV.
Writings in general.

Etc. 704. Writings public and private. 706. What are private.
705. Public writings dedned.

SEC. 704. Writings are of two kinds:
1. Public; and,
2. Private.

SEC. 705. Public writings are:

1. The written acts, or records of the acts, of the sovereign
authority, of omcial bodies and tribunals, and of public officers,
legislative, judicial and executive, whether of this state, of the United
States, of a sister state, or of a foreign country.

sac. 706. All other writings are private.

T

TITLE V.

Public writings.
Sec. 707. Every citizen entitled to inspect pub- 719. Judicial record, defined.
lic writings. - 720. Record of this state, the United States, or
708. Public officers to give copies on de- a sister state. how proved.
mand and payment of fees. 721. Record of a foreign country how proved.
709. Four kinds of public writings. - 722. Record of a foreign country, how proved
710. Laws, either written or unwritten. by oral evidence.
711. Written laws defined. 7%. Effect of judicial record of this state or
712. Written law of this state. the United States.
713. Public and private statutes denned. 724. Same subject.
714, Unwritten law defined. 725. When parties are to be deemed the same.
715. Books containing laws of other states, 796- what 599319‘! W59 determined '3! 3 f°!'m*?
presumed to be correct. .l“d8m°nl716. Public seal to a copy of a written 727- When principal bound. by judgment
law authenticates it. “Sam” 3“i'°'vY717. Evidence of unwrittenlaw of other 793- Eire“ Of .l“did3l T000111 0f 8 Slate!‘ Slatemm 729. Record of a foreign court of admiralty.

718. Recitals in a statute, how far concln- 730- E5309 0‘ 3 f°"°i8n.i“d8m°"'5,3“ .‘.idenc,,_ 731. How judicial record impeached.

Sac. 732. Jurisdiction necessary to sustain a n 736. Justice's judgment in other states, how

 
 

record. proved.

733. Manner of proving other ofllcial doc- 7 . Same subject.
uments. 738. Othcisl certilicates, what to contain.

734. Public record of 3 private writing, 7 . Provisions of this title applicable to sister
how proved. states, also applicable to public writings

735. Entries in omcial books, primary of district of Columbia or a territory of
evidence. , j the United States.

SEC. 707. Every citizen of this state has a right to inspect any

public Writing of this state, except as otherwise expressly provided by
this code or some other statute.

SEC. 708. Every public officer, having the custody of a public
Writing, which a citizen has a right to inspect, is bound to give him on
demand, a certified copy of it, on payment of the legal fees therefore,
and such copy is primary evidence of the original writing.

SEC. 709. Public Writings are divided into four classes:
1. Laws;
2. Judicial records; .

3. Other oflieial documents;
4. Public records, kept in this state, of private Writings;

SEC. 710. Laws Whether organic or ordinary, are either written or
unwritten.

SEC. 711. A written law is that which is promulgated in writing,
and of which a record is in existence.

SEC. 712. The organic law is the constitution of the United States
and of this state, and is altogether written. Other written laws are
denominated statutes. The written law of this state is thereforee contained in its constitution and statutes, and in the constitution and
statutes of the United States.

SEC. 713. Statutes are public or private. A private statute, is one
which concerns only certain designated persons, and affects only their

private rights. All other statutes are public, in which are included,
statutes creating or affecting corporations.

Site. 714. Unwritten law is the law not promulgated and recorded,
as mentioned in section 711, but which is nevertheless observed and
administered in the courts of the state. It has no certain repository ;

but is collected from the reports of the decisions of courts and the
treatises of learned men.

SEC. 715. Books, printed or published, under the authority of a

sister state, or foreign country, and purporting to contain the statutes,
code, or other written law, of such state or country, or proved to be
commonly‘ admitted in the tribunals of such state, or country, as
evidence of the written law thereof, are admissible in this state, as

evidence of such law.

SEC. 716. The public seal of the state or county, affixed to a copy
of a Written law, is also admissible as evidence of such law or writing.

SEC. 717. The oral testimony of witnesses skilled. therein, is
admissible as evidence of the unwritten law, of a sister state or foreign
country, as are also printed and published books of reports ofdeeisions
of the courts of such state, or country, or proved to be commonly
admitted in such courts.

SEC. 718. The recitals in a public statute, are conclusive evidence of
the facts recited for the purpose of carrying it into effect, but no
further. The recitals in a. private statute, are conclusive - evidence of
the facts recited, between parties who claim under its provisions, but

nocfurther.

SEC. 719. A judicial record, is the record, official entry or files of
the proceedings in a court of justice, or of the oiiicialact of a judicial
officer, in an action, suit or proceeding.

SEC. 720. A judicial record of this state or of the United States,
may be proved by the production of the original, or by aeopy thereof,
certified by the clerk, or other person having the legal custody thereof,
with the seal of the court affixed thereto, if there be a seal. That of
a sister state may be proved by the production of a copy thereof,
certified by the clerk or other person having the legal custody of the
record, with the seal of the court affixed thereto, if there be a. seal,
together with the certificate of the chief judge, or presiding magistrate
that the certificate is in due form and made by the clerk or other
person having the legal custody of the original.

SEC. 721. A judicial record of a foreign country, may be proved
by the production of a copy thereof, certified by the clerk or other
person having the legal custody of the record, with the seal of the
court affixed thereto, if there be a seal, together with the certificate of
the chief judge, or presiding magistrate that the certificate is in due
form and made by the clerk or other person having the legal custody
of the original, and also, together with the certificate of tlie Secretary
of State or other officer of the government, having the custody of the

great or principal seal of such government, to the effect that the court
or officer, whose judicial act or proceeding is certified, had jurisdiction
to perform the same, specifying generally the nature of the jurisdiction
and verifying the signature of the clerk or other legal keeper of the
record, and also the signature of the chief judge or presiding
magistrate.

SEC. 722. A copy of the judicial record of a foreign country is

also admissible in evidence upon proof:
1. That the copy offered has been compared by the witness with

the original, and is an exact transcript of the whole of it;

2. That such original was in the custody of the clerk or other
legal keeper of the same ; and

3. That the copy has affixed to it a seal, which is proved to be
the seal of the court Where the original record remains, or if there be
no such seal, the signature of the legal keeper of the record.

See. 723. The effect of a judgment, decree or final order, in an
action suit or proceeding, before a court or judge thereof of this state
or of the United States, having jurisdiction to pronounce the same, is
as follows : _

1. In case of a judgement, decree, or order, against a specific
thing, or in respect to the probate of a will or the administration of
the estate of a deceased person, or in respect to the personal, political,
or legal condition or relation of a particular person, the judgment,
decree, or order, is conclusive upon the title to the thing, the will or
administration, or the condition or relation of the person ;

2. In other cases, the judgment, decree, or order is, in respect to
the matter directly determined conclusive between the parties and
their representatives and successors in interest by title subsequent to
the commencement of the action suit or proceeding, litigating for the
same thing, under the same title, and in the same capacity.

SEC. 724. Other judicial orders of a court or judge thereof of this
state or of the United States, create a disputable presumption concerning the matter directly determined, between the same parties and their
representatives and successors in interest by title subsequent to the
commencement of the action suit or proceeding, litigating for the same
thing, under the same title, and in the same capacity. .

SEC. 725. The parties are deemed to be the same, when those,
between whom the evidence is offered, were adverse to each other in

the former case, and a judgment, decree or other determination, could
in that case have been made between them alone, though other parties
were joined with both oreithcr. ‘

SEC. 726. That only is deemed to have been determined by a
former judgment, decree or order, which appears upon its face to have
been so determined, or which was actually and necessarily included
therein, or necessarily thereto.

SEC. 727. Wlienever, pursuant to the last four sections a party is
bound by a record, and such party stands in the relation of surety for
another, the latter is also bound, from the time that he has notice of
the action suit or proceeding, and a request from the surety to defend

against the same.

SEC. 728. The effect of a judicial record of a sister state, is the
same in this state as in the state where it was made, except that it can
only be enforced here by an action, suit or proceeding, and except
also, that the authority of a guardian or committee, or of an executor
or administrator, does not extend beyond the jurisdiction of the government, under which he Was invested with his authority.

SEC. 729. The effect of the judicial record of a. court of admiralty
of a foreign country, is the same as if it were the record of a court of
admiralty of the United States.

SEC. 730. The effect of the judgment, decree or final order of any
other tribunal of a foreign country, having jurisdiction to pronounce
the same, is as follows :

1. In case of a judgment, decree or order against a specific
thing, the same is conclusive, upon the title to the thing;

2. In case of a judgment, decree or order against a person, the
same creates a. disputable presumption of a right, as between the.
parties, and their representatives -and successors in interest by title
subsequent, and can only be overcome by evidence of a want of jurisdiction, want of notice to the party, collusion, fraud, or clear mistake
of law or fact.

SEC. 731. Any judicial record may be impeached, and the presumption arising therefrom overcome, by evidence of a want of jurisdiction in the court or judicial oiiicer, or collusion between the
parties, or of fraud in the party offering the record, in respect to the
proceedings.

SEC. 732. The jurisdiction suilicient to sustain a record, is jurisdiction over the cause, over the parties, and over the thing when a specific
thing is the subject of the determination.

SEC. 733. Other official documents may be proved as follows:

1. Acts of the executive or administrative departments of this
state and of the United States by the records of such departments,
certified by the heads thereof respectively; they may also be proved
by public documents, prepared or printed by order of the legislative
assembly, or Congress, or either house thereof;

2. The proceedings of the legislative assembly of this state, or
of Congress, by the journals of those bodies respectively, or either
house thereof‘, or by statutes or resolutions, published by their order,
or by copies thereof, certified by the clerk or other legal keeper of the
originals.

3. The acts of the executive or administrative departments or
the proceedings of the legislature, of a sister state, in the same
manner; '

4. The acts of the executive or administrative departments, or
the proceedings of the legislature, of a foreign country, by journals,
statutes or resolutions, published by their authority respectively, or
commonly received in that country as such, or by a copy thereof‘,
certified under the great or principal seal of "such country or the
sovereign thereof, or by a recognition thereof, in or by some public act
of the executive of the United States;

5. Acts of a public corporation of this state, or of a board or
department thereof, by a copy certified -by the legal keeper thereof, or

by a printed copy published by the authority of such corporation or
department thereof.

6. Documents of any other-class in this state, or the United
States, by the original, or by a -copy certified by the legal keeper
thereof. . »

7. Documents of any other class in a sister state, by the original
or by a copy certified by the legal keeper thereof, together with the
certificate of the Secretary. of State, judge of a court of record or
mayor of a city, of such state, that the copy is duly certified by the
officer having the legal custody of the original;

8. Documents of any other class in a foreign country, by the
original, or by a copy certified by the legal keeper thereof, together
with a certificate under the great or principal seal of the country or

sovereign thereof, that the document is a valid and subsisting document of such country, and that the copy is duly certified by the officer
having the legal custody of the original.

SEC. 734.’ A public record of a private writing, may be proved by
the original record, or, by a copy thereof certified by the legal keeper
of the record. '

SEC. 735. Entries in public, or other official books or records,
made in the performance of his duty, by a public oilieer of this state,
or of the United States, or by another person in the performance of a
duty specially enjoined by the law of either, are primary evidence of
the facts stated therein.

SEC. 736. A transcript from the record or docket of a justice of
the peace of a sister state, of a judgment given by him, of the
proceedings in the action or proceeding before the judgment, and
subsequent thereto, if any, verified in the manner prescribed in the
next section, is primary evidence of the facts stated therein.

SEC. 737. There shall be attached to the transcript, a certificate of
the justice, having the legal custody of the record or docket, that the
transcript is in all respects correct and complete, and that the justice
who gave the judgment had jurisdiction of the action, together with
the certiheate of the clerk of the county, having official cognizance of
the fact, in which the justice resided at the time of giving the judgment, under the seal of his ofliee, that the person certifying the
transcript was at the date thereof a justice of the peace in the county,
and that the signature is genuine. ‘

SEC. 738. VVhenever a copy of a writing is certified to be used as
evidence, the certificate shall state that the copy has been compared
by the cl:-rtifying officer with the original, and that it is a correct
transcript therefrom, and of the whole of such original, or of a
specified part thereof. The ofiicial seal, if there be any, of the certifying officer, shall also be affixed to such certificate or any other
certificate except when the certificate of a clerk of a court is used in
the same court or before an oilicer thereof.

SEC. 739. The provisions of this title, applicable to the public
writings of a sister state, are in like manner applicable to the public
writings of the District of Columbia or a territory of the United
States.

TITLE VI.

Private writings and material olgjccls.

SIP. .' E“ l'’.}\'..‘..- xx‘.-":'.i*-.1 --laL~~-EEC.--i. ' TC”. \‘.'r7.'i1t:f t".;Tl<::l E7-1‘ 1:127‘. i::~p<'--‘t.-.l. 11r.':"I.7 I. -1
Til. .~4..:.1 .1. :1..- .1. lw r-Hvr‘*-'~l31-: ‘..1.,..,.,..- ._.«' .,]_-\I-_,-_,.. ‘.1_ 7.3!. 1':-m. 1', u'E:«-1'»-r iiJe.'I'-.' i.-‘ it .~«I1'::.~.t.':'i':I1:1_.'._' \\".:il iii. HI‘:li. f‘ll.l“.'i Ill‘ 1” 5"?"
T" I l. i‘:.\q.:‘.:fi.:_1"i~I.. \\'J lfi[t'.: ri:-T'-.'.:.'=l. :"."- “""“'”l”""’l- ‘””‘1"“Y"ll"“'\\'l'L!n".‘4r4:'9.
" ". \~‘''t-..-+1.. —.."~.'. ..r r -1 »~- '15-‘ Ifrii. \\"..--1: \‘-'I'l7.‘I'.‘." in 1i:=_' U1:-'1--'l\' Hi‘ 2'.Il\~'l'I‘-'7'
l I1. . IL I '-4 -1 --‘- v I -"- In " \_ ' '" \-fr‘ .-:1r ...-"ml ....i ;-:*.:'t*.' H1‘ l I--~ l”"-’3‘- i=‘l-T=*“""i l'_‘' ]3“‘'-T  1.2357. 'al'1l':"'1‘ H-:'T';IIT'.‘ l.-:1‘. in I.li/”1.‘.‘J-.- I--'  I.\'i~‘l|'l:|‘1‘¢|i llitllil \\'['llll13—f1‘ H L]. “E I T 1 i 1],‘. “film. :..'._J_ ii)‘1'n[;|[.;'r]_-4n|;ui ll:.Iltl \‘.'l'lllll_L{r4H5.
‘:11. ' : ._..Il i I
- i‘ <1 f- - i1;.1» ...:.-. 4 .‘._.'.|\ .1 3.3}. lCI1!'.‘,v:— ml’ i'|‘i‘:~'i'1i1:*- Il-:r'v:1.~wl U1‘ MU. bl" '.l.r.; 4_ _ , "1l. l,. __ 5.. .' l . ' .
x
4. l U: ' ~ m:i:+.-‘-. \\I lww I11 t\l ‘t'
1 1., 3.1‘ \\"m.-:.- --:'.|:'x' i.—= re.-1.7.7-Ii ;;I llw I111‘.-* Ii‘ -1.1
|..l’i r.’_', ' l-- . . 1 rig: {)5-i..'|:I..t1 VI 1-'.;'.Hr 7., 1|“ ,'.‘[.,_¢i_..|‘.l.l‘t. trlmlncluru. in .‘.rl:.’.lE-1.

. _ , , *‘t 1. ' .. .  4. '- -‘me $‘,;\\‘l1+'H HI I-:..~...-~.~'!.;.tl ..‘ :|.1\'.=:.~..- am‘. llwri iu_. |:;.m11.tl Hl'_. M“ "lul-| J L-1

[,m.[}._ \\'I1li1I_'___"-1.

SEC. 740. Private writings are either,
1. Sealed; or
2. Unsealed.

SEC. 741. A seal is a particular sign, made to attest in the most
formal manner, the execution of an instrument.

SEC. 742. A public seal in this state is a stamp or impression made
upon Wax, wafer, paper, or any other like substance, upon which a
visible and permanent impression can be made. A private seal may
be made in the same manner, or it may be made without an impression, by a Wafer or Wax attached to the instrument, or by a paper
attached to it by an adhesive substance. A scroll or other sign made
in a sister state, territory of the United States, district of Columbia or
a foreign country, and there recognized as a seal, shall be so regarded
in this state, except so far as the same may affect any interest in real
property, in this state.

SEO. 7 43. The seal affixed to a writing is primary evidence of a consideration. In other respects there is no difference between sealed or
unsealed writings, except as to the time of commencing actions or suits
thereon. A writing under seal may thereforee be modified, or discharged, by a writing not under seal or by an oral agreement otherwise valid.

SEC. 744. The execution of a writing is the subscribing and
delivering it, with or without aiiixing a seal.

SEC. 745. An agreement in Writing, without a seal, for the compromise or settlement of a debt or controversy, is as obligatory, as if a’

seal were atfixed.

SEC. 746. The last three sections shall not be construed to dispense
with a seal to a deed or other writing, where the same is required by
any statute of this state.

SEC. 747. A subscribing witness, is one who sees a writing executed,
or hears it acknowledged, and at the request of the party, thereupon
signs his name-as a witness.

SEC. 748. Historical works, books of science or art, and published
maps or charts, when made by persons indifferent between the parties,
are primary evidence of facts of general notoriety and interest.

SEC. 749. ' The original writing shall be produced and proved except
as provided in section 681. If the writing be in the custody of the
adverse party he must first have reasonable notice to produce it. If he
then fail to do so, the contents of the writing may be proved as in case
of its loss. But the notice to produce it, is not necessary where the
writing itself is a notice, or where it has been wrongfully obtained or
withheld by the adverse party.

SEC. 750. Though a Writing, called for by one party, is produced
by the other, and is thereupon inspected by the party calling for it, he
is not obliged to offer it as evidence in the case.

SEC. 751. If there be a subscribing witness to a writing, offered in
evidence, its execution shall be proved by him, if he be living and
within the state, and can testify. If there be more than one subscribing witness the evidence of one is sufiicient. If all the subscribing
witnesses be dead, or out of the state, or incapable of testifying, the
handwriting of one of them, and that of the party shall be proved.

SEC. 752. If the subscribing witness denies, or does not recollect,
the execution of the writing, its execution may then be proved by
other evidence.

SEC. 753. VVhere however, evidence is given that the party, against
whom the writing is offered, has at any time admitted its execution,
no other evidence of the execution need be given, if the instrument
be one mentioned in section 756, or one produced from the custody of
the adverse party, and has been acted upon by him as genuine.

SEC. 754. The handwriting of a person may be shown, by any one

who believes it to be his, and who has seen him write, or has seen
writing purporting to have been his, upon which he has acted or been
charged, and who has thus acquired a knowledge of his hand writing.

SEC. 755. Evidence respecting the handwriting may also be given,
by a comparison, made by a witness skilled in such matters, or the
jury, with writings, admitted or treated as genuine by the party
against whom the evidence is offered.

SEC. 756. VVhen a writing" is more than twenty years old, the
comparision may be made with writings, purporting to be genuine,
and generally respected and acted upon as such, by persons having an
interest in knowingthe fact.

SEC. 757. The entries or other writings of a like character of a
person deceased, or without the state, made at or near the time of the
transaction, and in a positioif to know the facts stated therein, may be
read, as primary evidence of the facts stated therein, in the following
cases:

1. When the entry was made against the interest of the person
making it; or _

2. “Then it was made in a professional capacity, and in the
ordinary course of professional conduct; or

3. VVhen it was made in the performance of a duty specially
enjoined by law.

SEC. 758. “Then an entry is repeated, in the regular course of

business, one being copied from another, at or near the time of the
transaction, all the entries are equally regarded as originals.

SEC. 759. “Whenever an object, cognizable by _‘the senses, has such a
relation to the fact in dispute, as to afford reasonable grounds of belief
respecting it, or to make an item in the sum of the evidence, such
object may be exhibited to the jury, or its existence, situation and
character may be proved by witnesses. The exhibition of such object

to the jury shall be rugulated by the sound discretion of the court.

TITLE VII.

Indirect eviclence ; inferences and presumptions.

Ste. 760. Indirect evidence of two kinds. 764. Presumption may be controverted, when.
761. Inference defined. 765. Specification of conclusive presumptions.
762. Presumption delined. 766. Specification of certain disputable pro7623. Upon what an interest is founded smnptions.

SEC. 760. Indirect evidence is of two kinds:
1. Inferences; and
2. Presumptions.

SEC. 761. An inference is a deduction, which the reason of the
jury makes from the facts proved, without an express direction of law
to that effect.

SEC. 762. A presumpsion is a deduction, which the law expressly
directs to be made from particular facts.

SEC. 763. An inference must be founded:
1. On a fact legally proved ; and,
2. On such a deduction from that tact as is warranted by a consideration of the usual propensities or passions of men, the particular
propensities or passions of the person whose act is in question, the
course of business, or the course of nature.

SEC. 764. A presumption, unless declared by law to be conclusive,
may be overcome by other evidence, direct or indirect; but unless so
overcome, the jury are bound to find according to the presumption.

SEC. 765. The following presumptions and no others, are deemed

conclusive:

1. An‘ intent to murder, from the deliberate use of a deadly
weapon, causing death within a year.

2. A malicious and guilty intent from the deliberate commission
of an unlawful act, for the purpose of injuring another.

3." The truth of the facts recited from the recital in a Written
instrument, between the parties thereto, their representatives or
successors in interest, by a subsequent title; but this rule does not
apply to the recital of a. consideration.

4. Whenever a party has, by his own declaration, act or omission,
intentionally, and deliberately led another to believe a particular thing
true, and to act upon such belief, he shall not, in any litigation arising
out of such declaration, act or omission, be permitted to falsify it.

5. A tenant is not permitted to deny the title of his landlord at
the time of the commencement of the relation.

6. That the issue of a wife cohabiting with her husband, who is
not impotent, is legitimate.

7. The judgment, decree or order of a court, when declared by
this. code to be conclusive; but such judgment, decree or order shall

be pleaded, if there be an opportunity to do so; and if there be no
such opportunity it may be used as evidence with like effect.

8. Any other presumption which by statute, is expressly made
conclusive.

SEC. 766. All other presumptions are satisfactory, unless overcome.
They are denominated disputable presumptions, and may be controverted by other evidence. The following are of that kind:

1. That a person is innocent of crime or wrong;

2. A That an unlawful act was done with an unlawful intent;

3. That a person intends the ordinary consequence of his
voluntary act.

4. That a person takes ordinary care of his own concerns.

5. That evidence willfully suppressed would be adverse to the
party suppressing. it, if produced.

6. That higher evidence would be adverse, from inferior being
produced.

7. That money paid by one to another, was due to the latter.

8. That a thing delivered by one to another, belonged to

the latter.
9. That an obligation, delivered up to the debtor, has been paid.

10. That former rent, or instalments of a debt have been paid
when a receipt for later is produced.

11. That things in the possession of a person, are owned by him.

12. That a person is the owner of property, from exercising acts
of ownership over it, or from common reputation of his ownership.

13. That a person in possession of an order on himself, for the
payment of money, or the delivery of a thing, has paid the money, or

delivered the thing accordingly.
14. That a person acting in a public office, was regularly

appointed to it.
15. That official duty has been regularly performed.

16. That a court or judge acting as such, whether in this state,
or any other state or country, was acting in the lawful exercise of his
jurisdiction.

17. That a judicial record, when not conclusive, does still correctly
determine, or set forth the rights of the parties.

18. That all matters, within an issue, were submitted to theury,

and passed upon by them.
19. That private transactions have been fair and regular.

20. That the ordinary course of business has been followed.

21. That a promissory note or bill of exchange, was given or
indorsed for a sufficient consideration.

22. That an indorsement of a negotiable promissory note or bill
of exchange, was made at the time and place of making the note
or bill.

23. That a writing is truly dated.

24. That a letter duly directed and mailed, was received in the
regular course of the mail.

25. Identity of person, from identity of name.

26. That a person not heard from in seven years is dead.

27. That acquiescence followed from a belief, that the thing
acquiesced in was conformable to the right or fact.

28. That things have happened, according to the ordinary course
of nature, and the ordinary habits of life.

29. That persons acting as copartners, have entered into a
contract of copartnership. ,

30. That a man and woman, deporting themselves as husband
[and] wife, have entered into a lawful contract of marriage.

31. That a wife, acting with her husband, in the commission of
a felony other than murder, acted by coercion and without guilty
intent.

32. That a child born in lawful wedlock, there being no divorce
from bed or board, is legitimate.

33. That a thing once proved to exist, continues as long, as is
usual with things of that nature.

34. That the law has been obeyed. _

35. That a document or writing, more than twenty years old, is
genuine, when the same has been generally acted upon as genuine, by
persons having an interest in the question, and its custody has been
satisfactorily explained.

36. That a printed and published book, purporting to be printed
and published by public authority, was so printed or published.

37. That a printed and published book, purporting to contain
reports of cases determined in the tribunals of the state or country,
where the book is published, contains. correct reports of such cases.

38. That an uninterrupted, adverse possession of real property
for twenty years, or more, has been held pursuant to a written
conveyance.

39. That a trustee or other person, whose duty it was to convey
real property to a particular person, has actually conveyed it to him,
when such presumption is necessary to perfect the title of such person
or his successor in interest. I

40. ' Every sale of personal property, capable of immediate
delivery to the purchaser, and every assignment of such property, by
way of mortgage or security, or upon any condition Whatever, unless
‘the same be accompanied by an immediate delivery, and be followed
by an actual and continued change of possession, creates a presumption of fraud as against the creditors of the seller or assignor, during
his possession, or as against subsequent purchasers in good faith and
for a valuable consideration, disputablc only, by making it appear on
the part of the person claiming under such sale or assignment, that
thesame was made in good faith, for-a sufficient consideration, and
without intent to defraud such creditors or purchasers. But the
presumption herein specified, does not existlin the case of mortgage
duly filed or recorded as provided by law.

41. When two persons perish in the same calamity, such as a
Wreck, a battle, or a eonflagration, and it is not shown who died first,
and there are no particular circumstances from which it can be inferred,
survivorship is presumed, from the probabilities resulting from the
strength, age, and sex, according to the following rules :

First. If both those who have perished were under the age of fifteen years, the older is presumed to have survived;

Second. If both were above the age of sixty years, the younger is
presumed to have survived.

Third. If one be under fifteen and the other above sixty years, the
former‘ is presumed to have survived. “

Fourth. If both be over fifteen and under sixty years, and the sexes
be different, the male is presumed to have survived; if the sexes be
the same then the older.

Fifth. If one be under fifteen or over sixty years, and the other
between those ages, the latter is presumed to have survived.

TITLE VIII.

Indispensable cvz'den.ce.

Ste. 767. Indispensable evidence, what. 769. Evidence to prove will.
763_ Evidence to prove ugage’perjury and 770. Evidence of alteration or revocation.
u-anon, 77!. Evidence of sale or transfer of real property.

Stc. 772. Last section not to affect certain 775. Agreement not in writing, when void.
- (uses. 776. Evidence of representations as to third
773. Evidence of sale or transfer of vessel. persons.
774. Evidence of authority to execute
sealed instrument.

SEC. 767. Certain evidence is necessary to the validity of particular
acts, or the proof of particular facts.

SEC. 768. Usage, perjury and treason shall be proved by the testimony of more than one witness; usage by the testimony of at least
two witnesses; treason by the testimony of two witnesses to the same
overt act; and perjury by the testimony of two witnesses, or one Witness and corroborating circumstances.

SEC. 769. A last will and testament, except when made by a soldier,
in actual military service, or by a mariner at sea, is invalid, unless it
be in writing, and executed with such formalities as are required by
law. Evidence, thereforee‘, of such will shall not be received, other
than the written instrument itself, or secondary evidence of its contents,
in the cases prescribed by law.

SEC. 770. A written will cannot be revoked or altered, otherwise
than by another written will, or another writing of the testator, declaring such revocation or alteration, and executed with the same formalities required by law for the will itself; or unless the :Will be burnt,
torn, cancelled, obliterated, or destroyed, with the intent and for the
purpose of revoking the same, by the testator himself, or by another
person, in his presence, by his direction and consent; and when so
done by another person, the direction and consent of the testator, and
the fact of such injury or destruction, shall be proved by at least two

witnesses.

SEC. 771. No estate or interest in real property other than a lease
for a term not exceeding one year, nor any trust or power concerning
such property, can be created, transferred or declared otherwise than
by operation of law, or by a conveyance or other instrument in writing
subscribed by the party creating, transferring or declaring the same, or
by his lawful agent, under written authority, and executed with such
formalities as are required by law.

SEC. 772. The last section shall not be construed to affect the power
of a testator, in the disposition of his real property by a last will and
testament, nor to prevent a trust from arising or being extinguished by
implication or operation of law, nor to affect the power of a court, to compel speciiic performance of an agreement in relation to such property.

See. 773. A sale or transfer of a vessel is not valid, unless it be in
writing, and signed by the party making the transfer.

SEC. 774. The authority to execute a sealed instrument for another,
shall be under seal, if the sealing of the instrument be essential to its
validity.

SEC. 775. In the following cases the agreement is void, unless the
same, or some note or memorandum thereof, expressing the consideration, be in writing and subscribed by the party to be charged, or by
his lawfully authorized agent; evidence thereforee of the agreement
shall not be received other than the writing, or secondary evidence of
its contents, in the cases prescribed law:

1. An agreement that, by its terms, is not to be performed within
a year from the making thereof.

2. An agreement to answer for the debt, default, or miscarriage
of another.

3. An agreement by an executor or administrator to pay the
debts of his testator or intestate out of his own estate.

4. An agreement made upon consideration of marriage, other
than a mutual promise to marry.

5. An agreement for the sale of personal property, at a price not
less than fifty dollars, unless the buyer accept and receive some part of
such personal property, or pay at the time some part of the purchme
money; but when the sale is made by auction, an entry by the
auctioneer, in his sale-book, at the time of the sale, of the kind of
property sold, the terms of the sale, the price, and the names of
the purchaser and person on whose account the sale is made, is a
sufficient memorandum.

6. An agreement for the leasing, for a longer period than one
year, or for the sale of real property or of any interest therein.

7. An agreement concerning real property, made by an agent of
the party sought to be charged, unless the authority of the agent be
in writing. SEC. 776. No evidence is admissible to charge a person upon a
representation, as to the credit, skill, or character of a third person,
unless such representation, or some memorandum thereof, be in
writing, and either subscribed by, or in the handwriting of, the party
to be charged.

CHAPTER DI.

TITLE I.—By whom eezllenee to be produced.

TITLE II.—-Jllecms of the production of credence.

TITLE III.—JlIode of taking the testimong, ff ufitizcsses.
TITLE IV.—A_jz'tIat.'z'ts.

TITLE V.—DeposZtz'ons.

TITLE VI.—Manner qf ta/a'n_q depositimts out of the state.
TITLE VII.—.WIanner of taking (lepose't2'o72s in the state.
TITLE VIII.—General rules of c.2:amz'2zatz'on.

TITLE, IX.—0f the efeet of erfelenc-e.

TITLE X.—-Of the rights and duties of witnesses.

TITLE I.

By whom evidence to be produced.

Site. 777. Evidence to be produced by party i 778. Alteration in writing, whotoexplain.
having the alilrmative. 1

$150. 777. The party having the affirmative of the issue shall
produce the evidence to prove it. Therefore the burden of proof lies

on the party, who would be defeated, if no evidence were given on

either side.

SEC. 778. The party producing a writing, as genuine, which has been
altered, or appears to have been altered, after its execution or making,
in a part material to the question in dispute, shall account for the
appearance or alteration. He may show that the alteration was
made by another without his concurrence, or was made with the
consent of the parties affected by it, ‘or otherwise properly or
innocently made, or that the alteration did not change the meaning
or language of the instrument. If he do that he may give the writing
in evidence, but not otherwise.

TITLE II.
Meavzs of the production of ericlmcc.

Ssc. 779. Subpama for witness defined. 785. When witness obliged to attend.
780. Subpmua, how and by whom issued. 786. Person present, compelled to testify.
781. Subpoena, when and to whom issued 787. Subpmna, disobedience to, how punished.

in blank. 788. Forfeiture therefore.
7'82. Subpmna, how served. 789. \‘Vhen warrant may issue to bring witness.
783. How served if witness concealed. 790. Warrant of arrest or commitment.
784. Proof of service, same as in case of 791. If witness be a prisoner, how produced or
summons. examined.

SEC. 779. The process by which the attendance of a witness is
required, is a subpoena. It is a writ directed to a person, and requiring
his attendance, at a particular time and place, to testify as a witness in
a particular action, suit or proceeding therein specified, on behalf of a
particular party therein mentioned. It may also require him to bring
with him any books, documents, or other things under his control,
which he is bound by law to produce in evidence.

SEC. 780. The subpoena is issued as follows:

1. To require attendance before a court of record, or at the trial
of an issue therein, or out of such court in an action suit or proceeding
pending therein, by the clerk of such court.

‘.3. To require attendance before a commissioner, appointed to
take testimony, by a court of the United States, or a territory thereof,
a sister state, or any foreign countr ', by any clerk of a court of record,
in places within the jurisdiction of such court.

3. To require attendance before a judge, justice of the peace or
other person authorized by law to take the testimony or affidavit of
another, by such judge, justice of the peace or other person, in places
-within their respective jurisdiction.

SEC. 781. The subpoenas authorized by subdivisions 1 and 2 of the
last section, upon the request of a party or an attorney of the court
shall be issued by the clerk in blank and delivered to such party or
attorney, who may thereafter fill up such blank with the name of the
witness or witnesses that he may desire to be subpoenaed and cause the
same to be servcdas in this title required.

See. 782. A subpoena may be served by the party or any other
person over eighteen years of age. The service is made by reading
and showing the original and delivering a copy or ticket containing

its substance, to the witness personally, giving or offering to him at the
same time, the fees to which he is entitled, for travel to and from the
place designated, and one day’s attendance there. Such service must
be made, so as to allow the witness a reasonable time, for preparation and travel to the place of attendance.

SEC. 783. A sheriff, his deputy, or some person specially appointed
by him, but none other, is authorized and required to break into any
building or vessel in which a witness may be concealed, so as to prevent
the service of a subpoena, and serve the same upon such witness.

SEC. 784. Proof of service of a subpoena shall be made in the same
manner as in the service of a summons.

SEC. 785. A witness is not obliged to attend for oral examination
or otherwise, at a place outside of the county in which he resides, or
in which he may be served with the subpoena, unless his residence be
within twenty miles of such place; except that, in an action, suit or
proceeding, pending in a court of record, the court or judge thereof
upon the atiidavit of the party or some one on his behalf, showing that
the testimony of the witness is material, and his oral examination
important and desirable, may endorse upon the subpoena an order for
the attendance of the witness ; the service of such subpoena and order,

and the payment of double fees to the witness, are suflieient to require
his attendance if he be served within the state, in the same manner as

if he resided in the county.

SEC. 786. A person present in court or before a judicial oiiicer, may
be required to testify, in the same manner, as if he were in attendance

before such court or officer upon a subpoena.

SEC. 787. Disobedience to a subpoena, or a refusal to be sworn, or
to answer as a witness, or to subscribe an affidavit or deposition when
required, may be punished as a contempt by the court or oiiicer before
whom he is required to attend or the refusal takes place, and if the
witness be a party, his complaint, answer or reply may be stricken out.

SEC. 788. A witness disobeying a subpcnna duly served shall also
forfeit to the party requiring his attendance the sum of ' fifty dollars,
and all damages which he may sustain, by the failure of the witness to
attend ; which forfeiture and damages may be recovered by an action

at law.
SEC. 789. In case of the failure of a witness to attend, the court or

officer before whom he is required to attend, upon proof of the due
service of the subpoena and the failure of the witness may issue a
warrant to the sheriff of the county, requiring him to arrest the
witness, and bring him before the court or officer where his attendance

was required.

SEC. 790. Every warrant of commitment, issued by a court or
officer, pursuant to this title, shall specify thcreinthe cause of the
commitment and if it be for refusing to answer a question, such question shall be stated“ in the Warrant. A warrant to arrest or commit a
witness shall be directed to the sheriii" of the county in ‘ivhich the
witness is attending, or is required to attend.‘ '

SEC. 791. If the vritness be a prisoner, confined in a prison within
this state, an order for his examination in the prison upon deposition,
or for his temporary rcmoral and production, before a court or officer,
for the purpose of being orally examined, may be made as follows:

1. By the court or judge thereof in which the action, suit or
proceeding is pending, unless it be a court of a justice‘ of the peace.

2. By any judge of a court of record, when the action, suit or
proceeding is pending in a justlcc’s court, or when the witness’
deposition, affidavit, or oral examination is required before a judge or
other person out of court. '

3. Such order shall only be made upon the affidavit of the party
desiring the order or some one on his ‘behalf, showing the nature of
the action, suit or proceeding, the testimony expected from the witness
and its materiality. '

; 4. If the witness be imprisoned in the county where the action,
suit or proceeding is pending, and for a cause other than a sentence for
felony», his production may be required; in all other‘ cases his examination shall be taken by deposition.

“

TITLE III.
Jlfodc of taking the !cs(z'mon3/ of 2cz'h2cssrs.

SEC. 702. Testimony, taken in three modes. J 796. Atiidavit or deposition, bow taken.
793. Afiidavit, definition of. ' 797. How authenticated, if taken in other state

794. Depositions, definition of. or country.
795. Oral examination, definition of. '

SEC. 792. The testimony of a witness is taken in three modes :.

1. By affidavit;
, 2. By deposition;
3. By oral examination.

SEC. 793. Ah affidavit is a written declaration under oath, made
vn'thout notice to the adverse party. ' '

SEC. 794. A deposition is a written declaration under oath, made
upon notice to the adverse party for the purpose of enabling him to
attend and crossiexamine. ” ' ‘

SEC. 795.. An oral examination, is an examination in presence of
the jury or tribunal, whichis to decide the fact, or act'upon it, the
testimony being heard by the jury, from the mouth of the witness.

SEC. 7 96. In all atiidavits and depositions, the witness must be
made to speak in the first person. _ Depositions shall be taken in the
form of question and answer, unless the parties agree to a different
mode.

Sec. 797. An aE.davit or deposition taken in another state of the
United States, or a territory thereof, the district of Columbia, or in a
foreign com1try,.otherwise than upon commission, must be authenticated as follows, before it can be used in this state:

1. It must be certified by at commissionen appointed by the
governor of this state to take atiidavits and depositions .in such.other
state, territory, district or country; or, . . . .

2. It must be certified, by a judge of a court having a clerk and
a seal to have been taken and subscribed before him, at a time and
place therein specified, and the existence of the court, the fact that
such judge is a. member thereof, -and the genuineness of his signature,
shall be certified by the clerk of the court, undc.r.the seal thereof.

I
It

TITLE IV.
Ajidavits.

SEC. 798. Aflidavit, when may be used. 800. Proof of publication, may be made by
799. Wllell deponent to be produced for affidavit.
crossexumhaation. 801. Where affidavit may be filed, and effect
thereof, or of a copy.

SEC. 798. An atiidavit may be used to prove the service of a summons, notice, or other paper in an action, suit or proceeding, to obtain
a provisional remedy, the examination of a witness, or a stay of proceedings, or upon a motion, and in any other case expressly provided
by this code or other statute of the state, except as provided in the
next section.

SEC. 799. Whenever a provisional remedy, has been allowed upon
affidavit, the party against whom it is allowed, may serve .upon the
party by whom it was obtained, a notice requiring the person making
the affidavit to be produced before some officer authorized to administer oaths, therein named, for cross-examination. Thereupon the
party to whom the remedy was allowed, shall lose the benefit of the
affidavit and all proceedings founded thereon, unless within eight days,
or such other time as the court or judge thereof may direct, upon a
previous notice to his adversary of at least three days, he produce the
deponent for examination, before the officer mentioned in 'the notice,
or some other of like authority provided for in the order of the court
or judge. Upon such production, the deponent may be examined by
either party ; but a party shall not be obliged to produce A witness for
examination as in this section provided except within the county
where the provisional remedy was allowed. ' I

SEC. 800. Proof of the publication of a ,document or notice
required by laws, or by an order of court or a judge, to bepublished in
a newspaper, may be made by the affidavit of the printer of the newspaper or his foreman or principal .clerk,,. annexed to a copy of the
document or potiee, specify_ing the times when, and the paper in
which, the publication was made. But such affidavit must‘ be made
within six months after the last day of publication.

Sec. 801. If such affidavit be made in an action, suit or proceeding
pending in 9, court, it may be filed with the clerk thereof, if not so
made, it may be filed with the clerk of the county where the newspaper is printed. In either case the original affidavit or if the same
be filed with the clerk, a copy thereof duly certified, is primary
evidence of the facts stated therein.

\

TITLE V.
Deposition.

Sac. 802. Dgposition, when used. 804. In same case, in the state, when taken.
803. Testimony of witness out of the 805. In suit in equity. '

state, when taken in an action at
law or proceeding.

Sec. 802. In all cases other than those mentioned in section 798

where a written declaration under oath is used, it must be a deposition
as prescribed by this code.

SEC. 803. The testimony of a witness out of the state, may be
taken by deposition in an action at law, at any time after the service of
the summons or the appearance of the defendant, and in a special procecdin g, at any time after a question of fact has arisen therein.

SEC. 804. The’ testimony of a witness in this state may be takenby deposition, in an action at law, at any time, after the service of the
summons or the appearance of the defendant, and in a special proceeding, after a question of fact. has arisen therein, in the following cases:

1. Wlien the witness is a party to the action or proceeding by
the adverse party.

2. When the witness’ residence is such that he is not obliged to
attend in obedience to a subpoena as provided in section 785.

3. VVhen the witness is about to leave the county and go more
than twenty miles beyond the place of trial.

4. ‘When the witness otherwise liable to attend the trial, is nevertheless too infirm to attend. °

5. When the testimony is required upon-a motion, or in any
other case where the oral examination of the witness is not required.

SEC. 805. The testimony .of a witness in a suit in equity,-is taken
by deposition, as elsewhere provided in this code, and in the manner
provided in this chapter, unless the court makes an order, as it is hereby

empowered to, of reference, to take the testimony in the cause and
report the same to the court. In such case the witness shall be examined before the referee, and his testimony reduced to writing and subscribed in the same manner as in ordinary cases of reference. .

-2--2‘

TITLE VI.
Mariner of taking depositions out of the state.

Size. 806. Testimony of a witness out of the 810. Trial, when postponed therefore.
state, how taken. ' " 811. Deposition taken out of state before com807. Commission, how and by when . missioner on notice to adverse party.
issued, 812. Either party may attend, or require writ808. Interrogatories may be annexed. ten interrogatories.

809. Contents of commission.

SEC. 806. The deposition of a witness out of the state, may be
taken upon commission issued from the court, or without commission,

before a commissioner appointed by the governor of this state to take
depositions in other states or countries.

SEC. 807. The commission may be issued by the clerk of the court,
or by a justice of the peace in a cause in his own court, on the application of either party upon five days’ previous notice to the other. It
shall be issued to a person agreed upon by the parties, or if they do
not agree, to a judge, justice of the peace, notary public, or clerk of a
court, selected by the officer issuing 

SEC. 808. Such interrogatories, direct and cross, as the respective
parties may prepare, to be settled by the clerk or justice in a summary
manner as to the form thereof, if the parties disagree, may be
annexed to the commission, or when the parties agree to that mode,
the examination may be without Written interrogatories.

SEC. 809. The commission shall authorize the commissioner, to
administer an oath to the witness, and to take his deposition in answer
to the interrogatories, or when the examination is to be without them,
in respect to the question in dispute, and to certify the deposition to
the court, in, a sealed envelope directed to the clerk or justice who
issued the commission, or other person designated and agreed upon,
and forwarded to him, by mail, or other usual channel of conveyance.

SEC. 810. A trial or other proceeding shall not be postponed by
reason of a commission not being returned, except it appear by atiidavit
that the testimony of the witness is material and necessrry, and that
proper diligence has been used to obtain it.

SEC. 811. The deposition of a witness out of this state and in any
other of the United States, a territory thereof, or the District of
Columbia, may also be taken before a commissioner, appointed by the
Governor of this state to take depositions in such other state, territory
or district, upon giving to the adverse party eight days’ notice of -the
time and place of examination, the name of the commissioner and the
witness, if the distance of the place of exmnination from the place
where the testimony is to be used do not exceed fifty miles, and one
day in addition for every additional twenty-live miles.

SEC. 812. Either party may attend upon such examination, and
examine the witness upon oral interrogatories, but if either party by
written notice to the other, within three days from the service of the
original notice, require it, it. shall be taken upon written interrogatories, to be settled, if not agreed upon, by the same officer, and in

the same manner as in case of deposition upon commission; and in
such case the deposition shall be taken, certified and directed by the
commissioner in the same manner, as a deposition upon commission.

TITLE VII.
Marzmr of taking clepositions in the state.

SEC. 813. Deposition in the state,wben taken, 8|7. Once taken, may be used by either

and notice thereof. party. Objections to relevancy or form.
814. How taken, either party may at- 818. Deposition under subdivisions 2, 3, or 4,
tend. proof before used. When taken upon
815. Clertiticate of o$cer. insufficient notice.
816. Deposition how and to whom deliv- 819. Once taken may be read at any time. Exered or forwarded. clnsion of any portion of deposition.

SEC. 813. Either party may take the testimony of a witness in this
state by deposition, in the cases allowed by this code, before a clerk of
a court of record or other person authorized to administer oaths, on
giving the adverse party, previous notice of the time and place of
examination, the name of the ofH‘eer' and the witness. -Such notice
shall be at least. three days, if the distance of the place [of] examination
from the residence of the person to whom the notice is given, do not
exceed twenty-five miles, and one day in addition for every additional
twenty-five miles, unless the courtor judge thereof by order prescribed
a shorter time. VVhen a shorter time is prescribed, the order shall be
served with the notice.

SEC. 814. Either party may attend upon such examination and
examine the Witness upon oral interrogatories. The deposition shall
be written by the officer taking the same, or by the witness, or by some
disinterested person in the presence and under the direction of such
officer. \Vhen completed it shall be read to, or by the witness, and
subscribed by him. Before subscribing it, the witness shall be allowed,
if he desire it, to correct or explain any statement in the deposition,
but such statement although corrected and explained, shall remain a
part of the deposition.

SEC. 815. The officer taking the deposition» shall append thereto
his certificate, under his seal of oiiice, if there be a seal, to the effect,
that the deposition was taken before him, at a place mentioned,
between certain hours of a day or days mentioned, and reduced to
writing by a person therein named. That before proceeding to the

examination the witness was duly sworn to tell the truth, the whole
truth and nothing but the truth, that the deposition was read to or by
the witness, and then by him subscribed.

SEC. 816. The oilicertaking the deposition shall enclose the same
in a sealed envelope, directed to the clerk of the court or justice of the
peace before whom the actio11 suit or proceeding is pending, or such
other person as may by writing be agreed upon, and deliver or forward
the same accordingly by mail or other usual channel of conveyance.

SEC. 817. A deposition taken pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter may be used by either party upon the trial or proceeding,
against. any patty giving or receiving the notice, subject to all legal
exceptions. But no objections can be made atv the trial to the
relevancy of the testimony or the form of the interrogatory, unless the
same appears by the deposition or written interrogatories to have been
taken at the time of the examination or the settling of such interrogatories. Section 814, except the first sentence thereof, and sections
815 and 816 shall apply to depositions taken out of the State upon oral
interrogatories. ' '

SEC. 818. If a deposition be taken under the 2, 3 or 4, subdivisions
of section 804, before the same can be used, proof shall be made that
the witness did reside beyond the service of a supbeena, or that he
still continues absent or infirm, as the case may be. A deposition
taken, whether in the state or without, upon insufiicient notice or
otherwise not substantially in conformity withthe provisions of this
chapter may be excluded from the ease unless such insufficient notice,
or other omission has been waived by the consent or conduct of the
adverse party.

SEC. 819. VVhen a deposition has been once taken, it may be read
in any stage of the same action, suit or proceeding or in any other
action, suit or proceeding between the same parties, or their representatives upon the same subject and is then to be deemed the evidence
of the party reading it. When any portion of a deposition is excluded

from a case, so much of the adverse examination as relates thereto, is
excluded also.

TITLE VIII.

General rules of e:ramz'nalz'on.

Sec. 890. Order of proof, how regulated. 828. Party producing witness not allowed to
8:21. Witnesses not under examination. impeach his credit, by evidence of bad
may be excluded. character.
8‘.2‘J. Interpreter sworn, when. 8539. Vlfitnes -, how re-examined, when once ex823. Court may control mode of interrogw i unlined.
tion. ' 830. How witness impeached.
824. Direct and cross-examination defined. 831. Same sub jcct.
825. Leading questions defined. 832. Evidence of good character, when allowed.
8:26. When witness nm_v testify or refresh l 333- writing 8l‘0“'" W “'iU"-‘$9: ma)’ be ill‘
his memory from writing. spected by adverse party.
321 (:1-ogg.exgmiu.;:iou, ug to what, is ex. 834. Judge or juror may be called as a witness.
tends.

SEC. 820. The order of proof shall be regulated by the sound discretion of the court. Ordinarily the party, beginning the case, shall
exhaust his evidence before the other begins. '

SEC. 8:21. If either party require it, the judge may exclude from the
court room any witness of the adverse party not at the time under
examination, so that he may not hear the testimony of other witnesses.

SEC. 8:22. \Vhen a witness does not understand and speak the English language, an interpreter shall be sworn to interpret for him.

SEC. 828. The court may exercise a reasonable control over the
mode of interrogation, so as to make it as rapid, as distinct, as little
annoying to the witness, and as effective for the extraction of the truth,
as may be, but subject to this rule, the parties may put such legal and
pertinent questions as they see tit. The court, however, may stop the
production of further evidence, upon any particular point, when the
evidence upon it is already so full as to preclude reasonable doubt.

SEC. 824. The examination of a witness by the party producing
him, is denominated the direct examination ; the examination of the
same witness, upon the same matter, by the adverse. party, the ('I‘()ssexamination. The direct cxamination, must be completed before the
cross-examination begins, unless the court otherwise direct.

SEC. -92:’. A question which suggests to the witness the answer
which the examining party desires, is denominated a leading or suggestive question. ()n a direct examination, leading questions are not
allowed, unless merely formal or preliminar ’, except in the sound diseretion of the court, under special circumstances, making it appear
that the interests of justice require it.

SEC. 826. A witness is allowed to refresh his memory, respecting
a fact, by anything written by himself, or under his direction, at the
time when the fact occurred or immediately thereafter, or at any other
time when the fact was fresh in his memory, and he knew that the
same was correctly stated in the writing. But in either case the writing
must be produced, and may be inspected by the adverse party, who
may, if he choose, cross-examine the witness upon it, and may read it
to the jury. So also, a witness may testify from such a writing,
though he retain no recollection of the particular facts; but such

evidence shall be received with caution.

SEC. 827. The adverse party may cross-examine the witness, as to
any matter stated in his direct examination, or connected therewith,
and in so doing, may put leading questions, but if he examine him, as
to other matters, such examination is to be subject to the same rules as

a direct examination.

SEC. 828. The party producing a witness, is not allowed to impeach
his credit by evidence of bad character, but he may contradict him by
other evidence, and may also show that he has made at other times
statements inconsistent with his present testimony, as provided in

section 830.

SEC. 829. A witness once examined, shall not be re-examined as to
the same matter, without leave of the court; but he may be re-examined as to any new matter, upon which hehas been examined by the
adverse party. After the examinations on both sides are concluded,
the witness shall not be recalled without leave of the court. Leave is
granted or withheld, in the exercise of a sound discretion.

SEC. 830. A witness may be impeached by the party against whom
he was called, by contradictory evidence, or by evidence that his general reputation for truth is bad, or that his moral character is such as
to render him unworthy of belief, but not by evidence of particular
wrongful acts ; except that it may be shewn by the examination of the
witness, or the record of the judgment, that he has been convicted

of a crime.
SEC. 831. A witness may also be impeached, by evidence that he

has made, at other times, statements inconsistent with his present testimony; but before this can be done, the statements must be related

to him, with the circumstances of times, places, and persons present;
and he shall be asked whether he has made such statements, and if so,
allowed to explain them. If the statements be in writing, they shall
be shown to the witness, before any question is put to him
concerning them.

SEC. 832. Evidence of the good character of a party, is not admissible in a civil action, suit or proceeding, unless the issue therein
involve his character, nor of a witness in any action, suit or proceeding
until the character of such witness has been impeached.

SEC. 833. Whenever a writing is shewn to a witness it may be
inspected by the adverse party, and if proved by the witness, shall be
read to the jury before his testimony is closed, or it shall not be read,
except on recalling the witness.

SEC. 834. The judge himself or any juror may be called as a witness
by either party, but in the former case it is in the discretion of the
court or judge to order the trial to be postponed or suspended, and
to take place before another judge.

TITLE IX.
Of the cfect of evidence.

SIC. 835. Jury, judges of the effect. of evidence, to be instructed on certain points.

SEC. 835. The jury subject to the control of the court in the cases
specified in this code, are the judges of the effect or value of evidence
addressed to them, except when it is thereby declared to be conclusive.
They are however to be instructed by the court, on all proper
occasions : g

1. That their power of judging of the effect of evidence is not
arbitrary, but to be exercised with legal discretion, and in subordination
to the rules of evidence.

2. That they are not bound to iind in conformity with the declarations of any number of witnesses, which do not produce conviction in
their minds, against a less number, or against a presumption or other
evidence satisfying their minds;

3. That a witness, false in one part of his testimony, is to be
distrusted in others ;

4. That the testimony of an accomplice ought to be viewed with

distrust, and the oral admissions of a party with caution ;
5. That in civil cases the affirmative of the issue shall be proved,

and when the evidence is contradictory, the finding shall be according
to the preponderance of evidence; that in criminal cases, guilt shall

shall be established beyond reasonable doubt.
6. That evidence is to be estimated, not only by its own intrinsic

weight, but also according to the evidence which it is in the power of
one side to produce, and of the other to contradict, and thereforee,

7. That if weaker and less satisfactory evidence is offered, when
it appears that stronger and more satisfactory was within the power of
the party, the evidence offered should be viewed with distrust.

TITLE X.
Of the rights and duties of witnesses.

Szc. 836. Witness bound to attend when sub- . Right of witness to protection.

paanaed. 839. When witness protected from arrest.
83?. What questions witness bound to 840. To make ntlidavit if arrested.
answer. 841. Court may discharge witness from arrest.

SEC. 836. It is the duty of a witness, duly served with a subpoena,
to attend at the time appointed, with any papers, books, documents,

or other thing under his control, required by the subpoena, to answer
all pertinent and legal questions, and unless sooner discharged, to
remain till the testimony is closed. But a witness at the end of each

day’s attendance, may demand of the party or his attorney the payment of his legal fees for the next following day, and if not then paid,
he is not obliged to remain longer in attendance.

SEC. 837. A witness shall answer questions legal and pertinent to
the matter in issue, though his answer may establish a claim against
himself. But he need not give an answer, which will have a direct
tendency to subject him to punishment for a felony, or to degrade his
character, unless, in the latter case, it be as to the very fact in issue,
or to a fact from which the fact in issue would be presumed. This
privilege is the privilege of the witness, and the objection cannot be
made by a party or his attorney; but a witness must answer as to the

fact of his previous conviction for felony. _
SEC. 838. It is the right of a witness to be protected from irrelevant,

insulting or improper questions, and from harsh or insulting demeanor;
to be detained only so long as the interests of justice require it; to be
examined only as to matters legal and pertinent to the issue.

SEC. 839. Every person who has been in good faith, served with a
subpoena to attend as a witness before a court, judge, commissioner,
referee or other oiiicer, is exonerated from arrest, in a civil case, while
going to the place of attendance, necessarily remaining there, and
returning therefrom. The arrest of a witness contrary to this section
is void, and when willfully made is a contempt of the court; and the
oiiicer making it, is responsible to the witness arrested, for double the
amount of the damages which may be assessed against him therefore,
and is also liable to an action at the suit of the party serving the witness with the subpmna, for the damages sustained by him in
consequence of the arrest.

SEC. 840. But the officer making the arrest is not liable in any way
therefore, unless the person claiming the exemption make, if required,
an affidavit, stating:

I. That he has been served with a subpcnna, to attend as a witness
before a court, judge or other officer, specifying the same, the place of
attendance, and the action, suit, or proceeding in which the subpoena
was issued; and,

2. That he has not been thus served by his own procurement,
with the intention of avoiding an arrest.

The affidavit may be taken by the officer, and exonerates him from
liability for not making the arrest or for discharging the witness when
_arrested.

SEC. 841. The court, judge or officer, before whom the attendance

of the witness is required, may discharge a witness from an arrest
made in violation of section 839. ‘

CHAPTER X.

TITLE I.—Evz'dencc in particular cases.

TITLE II.—Proceed2'7igs to perpetuate testimony.
TITLE III.—0atl2s and ajirmations.

TITLE I.

Evidence in particular cases.

SEC. 842. An offer in writing equivalent to 845. Rules for construing description of real

tender. property.

843. Whoever pays or delivers, entitled 816. Offer of compromise not an adrnisslombut
to receipt. - particular facts admitted may be shown.

844. Objections to tender must be spec- 817. Confession of adultery in suit for d'nsoluilied. tion of marriage contract.

SEC. 842. An offer in writing, to pay a particular sum of money,
or to deliver a written instrument or specific personal property, is, if
not accepted, equivalent to the actual production, and tender of the
money, instrument or property.

SEC. 843. \Vhoever pays money or delivers an instrument or
property, is entitled to a receipt therefore, from the person to whom the
payment or delivery is made, and may demand a proper signature to
such receipt as a condition of the payment or delivery.

SEC. 844. The person to whom a tender is made, shall at the time
specify any objection he may have to the money, instrument or property, or he must be deemed to have waived it; and if the objection be
to the amount of money, the terms of the instrument, or the amount
or kind of property, he must specify the amount, terms or kind which
he requires, or be precluded from objecting afterwards.

SEC. 845. The following are the rules, for construing the
descriptive part of a conveyance of real property, when the construction is doubtful, and there are no other sufficient circumstances
to determine it:

1. Where there are certain definite and ascertained particulars
in the description, the addition of others, which are indefinite,
unknown, or false, does not frustrate the conveyance, but it is to be

construed by such particulars, if they constitute a suiiicient description, to ascertain its application.

2. When permanent and visible, or ascertained boundaries or
monuments, are inconsistent with the measurement, either of lines,
angles or surfaces, the boundaries or monuments are paramount;

3. Between different measurements, which are inconsistent with
each other, that of angles is paramount to that of surfaces, and that
of lines paramount to both ;

4. When a road or a stream of water not navigable, is the
boundary, the rights of the grantor to the middle of the road, or the
thread of the stream, are included in the conveyance, except where
the road or bed of the stream is held under another title;

5. When tide water is the boundary, the rights of the grantor
to low Water mark are included in the conveyance, and also the right
of this state between high and low Water mark;

6. When the description refers to a map, and that reference is
inconsistent with other particulars, it controls them, if it appear that
the parties acted with reference to the map; otherwise the map is
subordinate to other definite, and ascertained particulars.

SEC. 846. An oifer of compromise is not an admission that anything is due, but admissions of particular facts, made in negotiation

for compromise, may be proved, unless otherwise specially agreed at
the time.

SEC. 847. In a suit for the dissolution of the marriage contract on
the ground of adultery, a confession of adultery, whether in or out of
the pleadings, is not of itself sufficient to justify a decree of dissolution.

TITLE II.
Proceedings to perpetuate testimony.

Sec. 848. Evidence may be perpetuated. 85?. Papers filed with deposition, primary
849. Order for examination, bow obtained. evidence, what. of.
850. Service of the order and notice, in 853. \Vhen the deposition may be used.
case of non residents, by whom 854. How objected to, when produced.
taken. 855. Power and duty of the officer taking the
851. How taken and where filed. deposition.

SEC. 848. The testimony of a witness may be taken conditionally
and perpetuated, as provided in this title.
SEC. 849. The order for taking ‘the testimony may be made by any

judge of the circuit or supreme courts upon the application of the
party desiring it, when it appears from the petition of such party
verified as a complaint:

1. That the applicant is a party or expects to be a party to an
action, suit or proceeding in a court in this state, or that he has an
interest i11 real property or some easement or franchise therein, about
which a controversy may arise, which would be the subject of such an
action, suit or proceeding;

2. That the testimony of a witness, whose name and place of
residence is stated, is material to the prosecutionor defense as the case
may be, of such action, suit or proceeding, or possible controversy, and
generally the question involved therein, and the facts expected to be
proved by the witness

3. The names and residence of the adverse parties or persons
adversely interested, so far as the applicant knows or can ascertain them.

The judge may thereupon in his discretion make an order, allowing
the examination, prescribing therein the place thereof, and how long
before the examination the order and notice of the time and place
therefore shall be served.

SEC. 850. If it appear that the adverse parties or persons adversely
interested or any of them reside out of the state or are unknown, the
judge shall direct, that as to such parties or persons, service of the
order and notice shall be made by publication, in the same manner as
a summons. Upon proof of the service, the deposition may be taken

conditionally, by the judge who made the order of examination, or by
any other officer or person therein designated.

SEC. 851. Every interrogatory or answer or declaration of the witness shall be taken down, unless the parties otherwise agree. The
deposition, when completed, shall be carefully read to, and subscribed
by the witness, and then certified by the judge or other oiiicer or person taking the same, and immediately thereafter filed in the office of
the clerk of the county where it was taken together with the order for
the examination of the witness, the petition on which the same was
granted, the notice, and the proof of service of the order and notice.

SEC. 852. The papers filed with the deposition as required by the
last section, or certified copy thereof, are primary evidence of the facts
stated therein, to show compliance with the provisions of this title.

SEC. 858. If t.hercafter a trial be had, between the persons named

in the petition as parties actual, expectant, or possible, or their representatives or successors in interest, upon proof of the death or insanity
of the witness, or that he is beyond the state and his residence
unknown, or of his inability to attend the trial by reason of age, sickness, or settled infirmity, the deposition or a certified copy thereof,
may be given in evidence by either party, but in a trial in a suit in
equity it may be given in evidence without such proof.

SEC. 854. The deposition so taken, when produced in evidence
may be objected to as if it was the oral testimony of the witness ;
except that the form of the interrogatory shall not be objected to.

SEC. 855. The judge, officer or other person taking the deposition, shall control the examination, to the end that the whole truth
may be declared by the witness, and if no one appears other than the
applicant, he shall prevent leading and suggestive interrogatories by
such applicant, except when the same may be necessary or merely
formal, and shall himself cross examine the witness, concluding with
the general interrogatory to the effect, whether the witness knows
anything further in relation to the matter which would be of benefit

to either party.

TITLE III.
Oaths and ajirmatz'on.s'.

Ste. 856. \\'ho authorized to take testimony 858. Form maybe varied to suit witness’ belief.
and administer oaths. 859. Same subject.

857. Form of oath, usual. 860. Who may affirm.

SEC. 856. Every court, judge, clerk of a court, justice of the peace
or notary public is authorized to take testimony in any action, suit or
proceeding, and such other persons in particular cases as this code
elsewhere authorizes. Every such court or officer is authorized to
administer oaths and affirmations generally, and every such other
person in the particular case authorized.

SEC. 857. An oath may be administered as follows: The person,
who swears, holds up his hand while the person adniinistering the
oath, thus addresses him: “You do solemnly swear that the evidence
you shall give in the issue [or matter] now pending between

and —-— shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the i

9’ '
u

truth, so help you Go , if the oath be administered to any other
than a witness, the same form and manner may he used.

SEC. 858. VVl1enever the court or officer before which a person is
offered as a witness, is satisfied/that he has a peculiar mode of swearing, connected with or in additition to the usual form of administration
which, in his opinion, is more solemn or obligatory, the court. or officer
may, in its discretion, adopt that mode.

S130. 859. When a person is sworn who believes in any other than
the Christian religion, he may be sworn according to the peculiar
ceremonies of his religion, if there be any such.

SEC. 860. Any person who has conscientious scruplcs against
taking an oath may make his solemn affirmation, by assenting, when
addressed, in the following manner‘. “You do solemnly affirm that,"
&c., as in section 857.

SEC. 861. "Whenever, by any p1‘0\'lsi0n of this code, an oath is
required, an affirmation as prescribed in the last sc.ction, is to be
deemed equivalent thereto, and a false affirmation is to be deemed
perjur *, equally with a false oath.

OHAPTER XI.

TITLE I.—T/ze supreme court.
TITLE II.— The circuit courts.

TITLE III.— The county courts.
TITLE IV.—Justtces courts.

TITLE V.—I7zcz'dental pozrcrs and duties of the courts of justice
and the juda'ciul ojicers tlicrcqf.

TITLE VI.—Scals of the courts of justice.

TITLE VII.—]lIiscclItmcous prozisions, rcspcctmg courts and judicial ojiccrs. '

TITLE I.

The supreme court.

0
SEC. 862. Organization and jurisdiction of, num- 863. Appointment of its officers, mode of payber of judges to do business. ment.

S120. 862. The supreme court is created and organized, and its
jurisdiction limited and defined, by the organic law of the state, Art.
VII., Con. The mode of bringing a cause into this court, and the
mode of proceeding therein, is elsewhere provided in this code. The
presence of a majority of all the judges of the court is necessary for
the transaction of any business therein, but any less number may meet
and adjourn from day to day or for the term with the same effect as if
all were present. .

Size. 8623. The court in ‘term or a majority of the judges thereof in
vacation, shall appoint a clerk of the court, who shall hold his office
during the pleasure of such court or judges. The executive ofiticer of
the court is the sheriff for the time being of the county, in which the
court is being held. The court may appoint a crier and such number
of lmiliffs for the term as may be necessary. The legal fees of such
clerk, sheriff, crier and bailiffs for attendance on the court, shall be
ascertained by the court, and directed to be paid by an order of the
‘court. The amount of such fees so ascertained and ordered are payable out of the state treasury, and it is the duty of the proper officer on
the presentation of a certified copy of such order, to draw his warrant
on such treasury therefore.

TITLE II.
The circuit courts.

Size. 864. Organization andjurisdiction of. 866. Appointment of its officers, and mode of
865. When term appointed by judge, !I18'.l- payment.
ner and effect. of.

SEC. 864. The circuit courts are created and organized and their
several jurisdictions limited and defined by the organic law of the
state, Art. VII., Con. The terms of the court are either those
appointed by law, or others, appointed by the judge of the court.

Sine. 865. VVhcn a term of the court is appointed by a judge, it
shall be done by a general order to that effect, made and entered in the
journal during term time, or by a special order, made and filed in vacation, for the trial of a particular cause or the transaction of certain
business therein specified ; a certified copy of which latter order, shall
be served on the parties to the cause or business specified, ten .days
prior to such term. In the former case, at the court so appointed, any
business may be transacted, as if the same were a term appointed by
law, but in the latter case onlyl such as may be specified in the order.

SEC. 866. Each circuit court has the power to appoint abrier and
such number of bailiffs as may be necessary for the term. The legal
fees of such crier, bailids or other otiiccr of the court for attendance
thereon, shall be ascertained by the court and directed to be paid by
an order thereof, and not otherwise. Upon the presentation of a certified copy of such order to the proper officer of the county wherein
such court is holden, it shall be the duty of such oilicer to draw his
warrant on the treasurer of such county, for the amount therein

specified.

TITLE III.

The county courts.

SEC. 80. Organization and jurisdiction of. 1 868. Actions at law, jurisdiction of.

O

Sac. 869. Probate matters,jurisdiction of. 87-1. Appoilrtneut and payment of its officers.
870. County business, authority and pow- 875. \\-‘hen cause removed by appeal from

er to transact. county court, and when by review.
871. In judicial proceedings by or against 876. Order of docketing and disposition of busithe county, the county is reprcscnt.- ness.
ed by the county court. 877. For what business court always open.
872. “Fhen holdeu, how terms appointed 878. line such other jurisdiction or authority,
by court or judge. as may be expressly given.

873. \Vhen business continued on account
of equal division of the court.

SEC. 867. The county court is created by the organic law of the
state, Art. VII., Coin, and its organization is provided for, and its jurisdiction limited and defined by such organic law, and the provisions of
this title. The court is held by the county judge, except when county
business is being transacted therein, and then it is held by such judge
and two commissioners designated by law, or a majority of such
persons.

SEC. 868. The county court has jurisdiction, but not c.\'clus,i\;e, of
actions at law and all proceedings therein, and connected tl101‘eWlt_l),
where the claim or subject of the controv°ersy does not exceed the
value of five hundred dollars, and exclusive jprisdiction of actions for

forcible entry and dctainer, without reference to the value of the
property.
SEC. 869. The county court has the exclusive jurisdiction, in the
first _instance, pertaining to a court of probate ; that is,
1. To take proof of wills;
2. To grant and revoke letters testamentary, of administration,
and of guardianship ; ‘
3. To direct and control the conduct, and settle the accounts of
executors, administrators and guardians ;
4. To direct the payment of debts and legacies, and the distribution of the estates of intestates;
5. To order the sale and disposal of the real and personal
property of deceased persons ;
6. To order the renting, sale or other disposal of the real and
personal property of minors;
7. To take the care and custody of the person and estate of a
lunatic or habitual drunkard, and to appoint and remove guardians

therefore, to direct and control the conduct of such guardians, and settle

_ their accounts.

8. To direct the a<.ln1easurement of dower.

SEC. 870. The county court has the authority and powers pertaining
to county commissioners, to transact county business; that is,

1. To provide for the erection and repairing of court houses,
jails, and other necessary public buildings for the use of the county;

2. To provide offices and furniture, books, stationery, fuel and
light therefore, for the sheriff’, county clerk and treasurer, or other
county officers;

3. To establish, vacate, or alter county roads or highways within
the county, or any other necessary act relating thereto, in the manner
provided by law ; '

4. To provide for’ the erection ‘and repairing within the county,
of public bridges upon any road or high 'ay, established by public
authority ;

-5. To license ferries, and fix the rates of ferriage ;

6. To grant grocery and all other licenses authorized by law;
where the authority to do so, is not c-xprcssly given to some other
tribunal ; '

7. To estimate and determine the amount of revenue to be
raised for county piirposcs, and to levy the rate necessary therefore,
together with the rate required by law for any other purpose, and
cause the same to be placed in the hands of the proper officer for
collection ;

8. To provide for the maintainanee and cmploynient of the
county or transient paupers, in the manner provided by law;

9. To have the general care and management of the county
property, funds and business, where the law does not otherwise
expressly provide;

10. To compound for or release in whole or in part any debt or
damages arising out. of contract due the county, and for the sole
use thereof, upon such teams as may be just and equitable.

SEC. 871. All actions, suits or proceedings by or against a county,
are in the name of such county, but the county is represented by the
county court, and such court has authority and power to control and
direct the proceeding therein as if it were plaintiff or defeinlant as t.he
case may be. - SEC. 872. The county court is held at such times as may be
appointed by law, and at such other times  the court in term or the
county judge in vacation may appoint, in like manner and with like
effect as the circuit court or judge thereof is authori'/.ed by section 865.

I .
SEC. 873. \Vhen in the transaction of county business, only two of

the persons authorized to hold the court are present, and there shall be
a disagreement between them upon any question or'matter before them,
the same shall be continued until the next term, or until the third
person authorized to sit, is present.

S150. "874. The county court has the same power and authority to

appoint a crier and bailiffs as the circuit court, and shall ascertain and
order the payment of their legal fees therefore in like manner and with
like eftect.

SEC‘. 875. The provisions of title ‘IV. of chapter VI. relating to
appeals are intended to apply to. judgments and decrees of the county
court in all cases, but not to its decisions given or made in the transaction of county business. In t.he latter case, the decisions of the
court shall only be reviewed upon the writ of review provided by. this
code.

SEC. 876. The business of the court at each term shall be docketcd and disposed of in the following order :,
1. Cases at law, including motions or other proceedings connected
therewith ;
2. The business pertaining to a court of probate as defined and
specified in section 8'39 ;
3. County business.
The proceedings and records of the court, pertaining to or concerning the three classifications of business specified in subdivisions of this
section, shall be entered and kept in separate books.

SEC. 877. The court is always open for the transaction of the
business mentioned in subdivision 2 of the last section, whenever the
particular proceeding or transaction is authorized to be had or done
without the presence of, or notice to, anothei-.

SEC. 878. In addition to the jurisdiction, authority, or power
specified -in this title, the county court, or judge thereof, has such

' other jurisdiction, authority and power, as is elsewhere expressly given

to it or him by this code, or other statute.

’ TITLE IV.

.Tzcstz'crs court.

882. Same subject.
883. \\'here action may be commenced.

where and by whom holden.
880. Mode of proceeding and rules of evidence in.

Ste. 879. Justices court, definition of, and I 881. Jurisdiction of justices’ court.

SEC. 879. A jnstice’s court, is a court held by a justice of the
peace, within the precinct for which lp may be chosen. There are no
particular terms of such court, but the same is always open for the
transaction of business, according to the mode of proceeding prescribed
for it.

SEC. 880. The mode of proceeding and the rules of evidence
are the same in a _justice’s court, as in a like action or proceeding in :i

court of record, except where otherwise specially provided.
SEC. 881. A justiee’s court has jurisdiction, but ‘not exclusive of
the following actions: '

I. For the recovery of money or damages only, when the
amount claimed does not exceed two hundred and iifty dollars; ‘

2. For the recovery of specific personal property, when the value
of the property claimed and the damages for the detention, do not
exceed two hundred and fifty dollars;

3. For the recovery of any penalty or forfeiture, whether given
by statute, or arising out of contract, not exceeding two hundred and
titty dollars ;

4. Also, to give judgment without action, upon the confession of
the defendant for any of the causes specified in this section, except for
a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute.

SEC. 882. The ju1‘isd_icti0n conferred by the last section, does not
extend, however, '

1. To aipaction in which the title to real property shall come in
question : T °

2. To an action for false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal convcrsation, seduction, or upon a promise
to marry. ~

SEC. .883. In an action to recover ‘a penalty or forfeiture given by
statute, the cause of action or some part thereof, must have arisen
within the county where the action is commenced, or upon a lake,

river or other water bordering upon such county and opposite thereto;
but otherwise than this, the jurisdiction of a justice’s court does not
depend upon where the cause arose, provided the defendants or either
of them reside in the precinct where the action is commenced, or be
found therein at the commencement thereof, and if neit.her of them
reside in the state, the action nmy be commenced in any precinct in

the state.

TITLE V.

Inc-2'(Ic'nz'ul pozmts and (lu!e'c.s' of UM? ce2u't.s' of jets-z'z'cc and flu‘ judi:-[ul 0_fiz'ru's
I/t.")'C0f.

Size. 93!. Powers of courts respecting the con- 3 889. Subsequent application to another judge,
duct of judicial proceedings.  when prohibited.
995. How e.\'crci.~:ed. 890. Povccr of judicial otliecrs, respecting the
8&3. Judicial officer, detinition, when disqualified to act. 891. How exercised.
897. Judicial n."‘.'.cer1u,~tto act as attorney, 892. Power of judicial officers to take and

F
I

except. K certif_v proof, or aclmowledgments, af1

 

conduct of proceedings before them.

tidavite or (.l(‘p0.-'iIl01‘.S.
893. Same subject.

888. Powers of judge out of court.

SEC. 884. Every court of justice has power:

1. To preserve and enforce order in its immediate presence;

2. To enforce order in the proceedings before it, or before a
person or body einpowercd to conduct a judicial investigation under its
authority;

3. To provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings before it,
or its officers ;

4. To compel obedience to its judgments, decrees, orders and
process, and to the orders of a judge out of a. court, in an action, suit
or proceeding pending therein_ ;

5. To control, in futherance of justice, the conduct. of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with
a- judicial proceeding-before it, in every matter appertaining thereto:

6. ‘To compel the attendance of per.~3ons, to testify, in an action,
suit or proceeding pending therein, in the cases and manner provided
by this code ;

7. To administer oaths in an action, suit. or proceeding pending
therein, and in all other cases, where it may be necessary in the
exercise of its powers, or the performance of its duties.

SEC. 885. For the effectual exercise of the pmrers specified in the
last section, the court may punish for contempt in the cases and the
manner provided in this code.

SEC. 886. A judicial officer is a person a11tho1'ize(l to act as :1ju1lge

in a court of justice. Such otliccr shall not act. as such, i11 a court of

which he is a incnibcr iii any of t11e following ca:=es :

1. In an action, suit or proceeding to wl1ich he is a party. or in
which he is directly interested ;

2. \V11en l1e was ‘not present a11d sitting as a n1cn1ber of the
co11rt, at the licariug of a matter submitted for its decision ;

3. ‘When he is related to either party. by consanguinity or a1‘li11it_y
within tl1e third (legree; '

4. “When he has been attorney in tl1c action, suit or proc-ee(li11;:
in o_11est.ion for either party.

But this section does not apply to an applicatio11 to cha11ge the
place of trial, or the regulation of the order of business in court. In
the cases specified in subdivisions 3 and -1, the disqualilication 111:1.y be
waived by the parties, and except in the supreme court, shall be
deen1ed to be waived, unless an application for a change of the_ place
of trial he made as provided in this code.

SEC. 887. Any judicial officer may act as an attorney i11 any action.
suit or proceeding to which he is a party, or in which he is directly’
interested. A judge of the county court or justice of the peace
otherwise autliorized by law, may act as an atto1'11cy,i11 any court,
other than the one of which he is judge, except in an action, suit or
proceeding rcinovcd therefrom to another court for review; but no
judicial officer shall act as attorney i11 any court, or otl1erwise, other
than as in this section allowed.

SEC. 888. A j11dge 1nay exercise, out of court, all the powers
expressly conferred upon a judge as contraclistinguislied from :1 court,
a11d not otherwise. _

SEC. 889. If an application for an order, made to :1 judge of the
court in which the action, suit or proceeding is pending, he refused i11
whole or in part, or be granted conditionally, no sul)seq11cnt.application for the szunc order shall be made to any other j111lgc. A \'iolation
of this section is punishable as a. co11te111pt, and an order made co11t1‘a)‘_\'
thereto may he revoked hy the judge who inade it, or vacated by the
court or j11(lge thereof in which the action, suit or pro<-1-cdi11g is
pending.

SEC. 890. Every judicial officer has power:

1. To preserve and enforce order in his immediate presence, and
in the proceedings before him, when he is engaged in the performance
of a duty imposed upon him by this code or other statute;

2. To compel obedience to his_ lawful orders, as provided in
this code ;

3. To compel the attendance of persons to testify in a proceeding
pending before him in the cases and manner provided in this code;

4. To administer oaths to persons, in a proceeding pending before
him, and in all other cases where it may be necessary, in the exercise
of his powers and the performance of his duties.

SEC. 891. For the effectual exercise of the powers specified in the
last section, a judicial officer may punish for contempt, in the cases

and manner provided in this code.

SEC. 892. The judges of the supreme court and circuit courts have
power in any part. of the state, to take and certify:

1. The proof and acknowledgment of a conveyance of real
property, or any other written instrnmcnt‘authorizcd or required to be
proved or acknowledged;

2. The acknowledgment of satisfaction of a judgment in
any court;

3. An affidavit or deposition, to he used in any court of justice
or other tribunal of this state ;

4. To exercise any other power, and perform any other duty eonferred or imposed upon them by this code or other statutes.

SEC. 893. Every other judicial officer may, within the county, city,
district or precinct, in which he is chosen,

1. lxercise the powers mentioned in the first three subdivisions
of the last section ;

2. Exercise any otherpower, and perform any other duty conferred or imposed upon him by this code, or other statutes.

TITLE VI.
Seals‘ of the courls qf ./'1(.s'{[('('.

SEC. 894. VVhat courts have seals.
895. New long present seals to continue.
896. Secretary of state to procure new
seals, devices thereof. l

89?. Clerk to keep seal, and affix it when requircd.

 

SEC. 894. Each of the following courts, and no other, has a seal:
1. The supreme court;
2. Each circuit court;
3. Each county court.

SEC. 895. The seals now used by these courts shall continue to be
so used until and including the first day of May, A. D. 1863. After
that day the seals devised as provided in the next section, shall be the
seals thereof.

SEC. 896. At least thirty days before the first day of .\1ay,A. D.
1863, the secretary of state shall procure and transmit, at the expense
of the state, to the clerks of the several courts mentioned in section
894, seals, with the arms of the state engraved in the center thereof,
and with the following inscription surrounding the same:

1. For the supreme court, “Supreme Court, State of Oregon.”

2. For the circuit court, “ Circuit Court, County, State of
Oregon,” inserting the name of the particular county ;

3. For the county court, “ County Court,
Oregon,” inserting the name of the particular county.

SEC. 897. The clerk of each court mentioned in section 894, shall

keep the seal thereof, and afiix it to any process, transcript, certificate
or other paper required by this code or other statute.

TITLE VII. °
JlIz'sccZlancous prozisions, rrspcclzng courts and judicial o_17iccrs.

Sec. 898. Sittings of courts to be public, when 905. Persons bound to appear at the‘ place apmay be private. pointed by judge.
899. Courts not to be open on certain days, 906. When judge does not attend, how court
except for special purposes. adjourned.
900. If court appointed or adjourned to 907. Proceeding not affected by failure of term,
such day, to be deemed for the next or vacancy in office.
judicial day. 908. Application to court or judge how ad90l. (‘carts where to be held. dressed.
902. \Vhen trial may be had elsewhere 909. Proceedingstobe in English.
than at courthouse. 910. Power of court or judge to adjourn judi.
903. \Vhen and how judge may change cial proceedings.
the place of holding court. 911. Means to be used by court to execute its
904. When court may order sheriff to powers.
provide accommodations for court
and jury.

SEC. 898. The sittings of every court of justice are public, except
as provided in this section. Upon the agreement of the parties to a

County, State of

civil action. suit or proceeding filed with the clerk, or entered upon the
journal, the court may direct the trial of an issue of law or fact, or any
other proceeding therein, to be private; and upon such order being
made, all persons shall be excluded, except the officers of the court,
the parties, their xx-itiiesses and counsel.

.\'1~:e. 899. The courts of justice may be held, and judicial business
may be t.ra.ns-acted, on any day, except as provided in this section. No
court. can be opened, nor can any judicial business be transacted on
.Sunday, on the tirst day of.January, on the fourth day of July. on
(“«ln'istn1as day, on  day on which a general election is held, or on a
day appointed by the executive authority of the United States, or of
this state, as a day of fast or thanksgiving, except for the following
purposes :

.1. To give instructions to a jury, then deliberating on their
\’C1‘(llL‘f ;
2. To receive a. verdict, or discharge a jury;
3. For the exercise of the powers of a magistrate in a criminal
action, or in a proceeding of a criminal nature.

 900. If any of the (lays mentioned in the last. section, happen
to be a day appointed for holding a court, or to which it is adjourned,
it is deemed appointed for, or adjourned to the next judicial day.

SEC. 901. Every court of justice shall sit at the place designated
by law, for that purpose, except as provided in the _next two sections.

SEC. .‘H');’Z. llpon the agreelnent. of the parties to a civil action, suit
or proceeding, filed with the. clerk, or entered upon the journal, the
court may direct that the trial of an issue of law or of fact, or any
other proceeding therein, be had elsewhere within the county than at
the court house.

31-30. 903.. A judge authorized to hold or preside at a court, may by
an order filed with the clerk thereof, and published as he may prescribe, direct that the court be held or continued at any other place in
the county than that appointed, when war, pesfilence, or other public
calamity, or the danger thereof, may render it necessary; and may, in
the same manner, revoke the order, and in his discretion appoint
another place in the same county for holding the court.

Stat). 90-}. If the proper authority neglects to provide any court

with rooius, furniture, fuel, lights and stationery, suitable and sutticient.

for the tI‘£msa<:ti<)u of its ln1;si11e.ss, and for the jury attending upon it,

if there be one, the eo11rt may order tl1e sl1eritt' to do so, at the place
within the county designated lay law for liolding; such eon rt ; a11d the
expense incurred by the sheriff in carrying such order into etl'ect, when
aseertaitrcd :1nd ordered to be paid by the court. is :1 cl1'.1I‘g'e upon the

county. SEC. 905. \Vhen :1 court is hcldiat :1 place :1ppoiut'e<l as provided
by section 903, every pe1's11i1 held or 1‘0<11lll'1'1l to appear at tl1e court,
shall appear :1t the place so appointed.

S1-:0. 9015. If no juclge attend on the day :1ppointe1l t'orl1olding :1.
court, het'ore four o'clock in the afternoon, the court shall stand
adjourned until the next day at nine o'clock ; and if no judge attend
on th:1t day, before four o°cloel~: in the afternoon, it shall tl1en stand
adjourned for the term.

SEC. 907. No procee.ding° in a eo11rt of usticc in any action, suit. or
proceeding pending therein, is affected by :1 \':1ea11cyi11 tl1e otiiee of
any or all of the _j11dg°es, or by the failure of a term thereof.

SEC. 909. An application or other proceeding addressed to :1 court
shall he :1<ldr<-ssed to it lay its style, as giveii in this code: an appliea:
tion or other pl‘Oe;'L‘(lll1g addressed to :1. judicial officer shall be
addressed to him by his name, without any other title than his style
of office. SEC. ‘J09. Every writing in any action, suit or procectling wliatever,
in a court ofjustiee of this state, or l)'cli)1‘U :1 judicial otticer, shall he
in the l*l11;_;'lisl1 l:111g1.1:1_:;e ; hut sucli ah‘ore\'i:1tio11s as are now eonimonly
used in that l:111;;11:1ge, may he used, and numbers may he exp1'es'sc<.l
hy tig11res or nnmer:1ls_, in the 1-11:st1,:111:11'y manner.

SEC. ‘J10. A court or judiei:1l otlieer has power to :11l_jo11rn any
proceeding; before it or him, from time to time as may he necessary,
unless otl1er\\'is:e e:<pre.~:sly p1‘o\'lClC(l by this code.

SEC. ‘J11. \\"hen _jurisdietio'n is, by the org;aI1ie. law of this state, or
hy this code or any other statute, cont'crre1l on :1 court or judicial
officer, all the means to carry int.o eti'cct are also give11; and in the
exe1‘eiso of the jurisdiction, if the course of 1')l‘()('(*ctli1|g be not
specitically pointed out hy this code, any s11i_t:1'ole process or mode of
proeeediu;.; maybe adopted, '1\'l1i('l1 may :1pp-3:11‘ most. e?.mt°ormahlc to
the spirit of this <?«;1(l('.

OIIAPTER XII.

Qt pc2'so7L9 specially znrcslecl with powers of (L Jucleezal 2‘2alur_c.

... _.__ -%_,%__fi.v._j.___..:_.

TITLE I.—Jurz'r.<-, and the qzmlf/z'calz'ons and c.z.-c7npl2'on of jurors.

TITLE II.—]l[«,mncr of forming ‘jury list.

TITLE IlI.—JIumm' of draz/fe'ng am! sumnzon2'n_qju2'3/.

TITLE IV.—,Ii’¢;f'c2'ce.s-.

TITLE V.—Chmmz'.s.s¢'onm's to ta/.:r a_[?icl«u'c'!._~*, and flu" proof aml ael.:nou'ledgmcut of (leads, out of (/2219 state.

TITLE I.

Juries, and the q2(aIg'f7'eccl£on and (.rrnzpte'on of jurors.

SEC. 919. Jury, definition of. . E 917. Otherjuries abolished, number ofjury nec. 913. Dilferent kinds of juries. essary to concur in verdict orindictment.
914. Grand jury, dclinition of. 918. Who ure competent to not asjurors;
9].’). Trial jury, definition of. i 919. \Vho are exempt.
916. J nry of inquest, delinition of.  920. Who may be excused.

SEC. 912. A jury is a body of men temporarily selected from the

qualified iiilrabitants of a particular district, and invested with power:

1. To present or indict a person for a public offense ; or
2. To try a question of fact.
SEC. 913. A jury is of three kinds:
. A grand jur ';

IO‘:--l

. A trial jury;
 Ajury of inquest. _

SEC. 914. A g1'a11djury is a body of men, seven in number, drawn
by lot from the jurors in attendance upon the court at the particular
term, and sworn to inquire of public offenses, committed or triablc
within the county.

SEC. 915. A trial jury is a body of men, twelve in number, in the
circuit court, and six in number in the county court, and courts of

justice of the peace, drawn by lot from the jurors in attendance upon
the court at a particular term, and sworn to try and determine a. question of fact; but in a justices court the jury is drawn according to
the mode specially provided for such court.

SEC. 916. A jury of inquest is a body of men, six in number, summoned from. the qualified inhabitants of a particular district, before the
sheriff, coroner, or other ministerial officer, to inquire of particular
facts.

SEC. 917. All otherjuries than those herein described, are abolished.
A grand jury may present or indict a person, with a concurrence of
five of their number, and not otherwise. The verdict. of a trial jury
shall be unanimous, but the verdict of a jury of inquest is suiticient if
two-thirds of the jurors concur therein.

SEC. 918. A person is not competent to act as a juror unless he be:

1. A citizen of the United States ;

2. A white male inhabitant of the county in \vhieh'he  returned,
and who has been an inhabitant thereof for the year next preceding
the time he is drawn or called ;

3. Over twenty-one years of age ;

4. In the possession of his natural faculties and of sound mind.

Nor is any person competent to act as a juror who has been convicted of any felony, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.

SEC. 919. A person is exempt from liability to act as a juror, if
he be:

1. A judicial oiiicer, as defined in this code;

2. Any other civil officer of this state, or the United States,
xiiliose duties are at the time inconsistent with his attencmnce as a juror ;

3. An attorney ;

4. A minister of the gospel, or a priest of any denomination ;

5. A teacher in a college, academy or school ;

6. A practising physician ;

7. An acting non—(-ommissioned‘officer, musician or private of a
military organization, duly enrolled in the service of the United States,
or of this state; '

8. An acting member of‘ a company of firemen duly organized,
and-who has been such member for a period‘of six months next preceding the timc when the exemption is claimed ;

‘J. A person who has served, within this state, as an acting member of a company of firemen for the period of seven years;
10. At-ting’ ferrymen or millers.

.\‘I~.‘C. 920. A persoll may be excused from acting as a juror, when,
for any reason, his interests or those of the public will he materially
injured by his attendance: or when his own health, or_ the death or
si(:l{l1e.‘~ts of a member of his family, requirc_s his a‘osenee ; but no person shall be e.\'euscd on account of the causes in this section mentioned unless it appear that after he was summoned he co11ld not, by
rcasonafile precaution, have provided tlgzllllsi» them.

TITLE II.
Mrmwr Q/'foIimin/] jI/r_r/ lisl.
SEC. 921. County court to make jury list an- 9533. Numheranddistribution ofnamcs selected.
nually. ‘.!''.’4. ‘What jury list to contain, and where filed.

992. Names to be selected only of those 9'35. County clerk to deposit. ballotsinjnry box.
qualified and liable.

l

SEC. 921. The county court of each county shall, at its first term
of each year, or, in case of omission or neglect to do so, then at any
following term, make from the last preceding assessiiit-11t1'oll of the

county, a list denominated, the jury list, containing the names of

persons to serve as _{_:rand and trial jurors until the Following‘ year, or

new lists be made.

SEC. 922. In preparing the jury list, the names of those persons

only must. be selected, who are known or believed to he possessed of

'01 -~ 0 0 0 .
the tpialihcations prescribed lll section 919, and not entitled to
exemption as provided in section 919.

 923. The jury list shall contain the names of two hundred
persons, it’ there are that nuinher of qualified jurors upon the assessment roll. They shall be selected from the ditlcrent portions of the
county, in proportion to the nuniher tpialilicd upon the ilSS(‘.~=5l1lC11l roll
as much as practi able.

SEC. 924. The jury list shall contain the christian and surname,
and the place of 1'CSl(lL'llC(?’t1ll(l occupation of each pcr.-.on named therein,
and shall be certified by the clerk of the county court and placed on
file in the oliice of the county clerk within ten days froin the time it is
prepared.

SEC. 925. The county clerk shall keep in his office a sufficient box
carefully secured, which is denominated the jury box. On receiving
the jury list, he shall destroy all ballots remaining in the box, and
prepare and deposit in such box, separate ballots, containing the name
place of residence and occupation of each person embraced in the list,
and folded as nearly alike as practicable, and so that the name cannot

» be seen.

6

TITLE III. ..

Maizizer of drawing and summoning jury.

Ste. 926. Jurors to be drawn for circuit and 932. Panel, when and how returned. _

county courts. 933. Penalty for non-attendance of juror.
927. Number of jurors to be drawn for 934. Ballots drawn, how disposed of.

each court. 935. Certificate of clerk respecting the attend928. Drawing, when and where to take ance of jurors.

place. 936. Juror not to be drawn twice until list ex‘ 9239. Drawing, how conducted. hausted.

930. Panel to he delivered to the sheriff. 937. Power of the court on failure of jurors to
931. Jurors, how summoned. attend.

SEC. 926. The jurors for every term of the circuit and county
court in the county shall be drawn from the names deposited in the
jury box.

SEC. 927. For the circuit court, thirty-onenames shall be drawn, '

from which number the grand and trial juries for the term are selected
as elsewhere provided in this code. For the county court twelve
names shall be drawn, from which number the trial juries for the term
are selected in like manner.

SEC. 923. The drawing shall take place at the office of the county
clerk not less than ten nor more than twenty days before the holding
of the term of court at which the jurors are to serve ; but if the term
be one appointed by the court or judge thereof, the drawing may be at
any shorter time before such term, as such court or judge may prescribe
in the order appointing such term.

SEC. 929. VVhcnev'er jurors are to be drawn, the county clerk shall
take to his assistance the sheriff or a justice of the peace for the
county and proceed with the drawing as follows:

1. The clerk shall shake the box containing the ballots, so as to
mingle them as much as possible;

2. He shall then publicly draw out of the box as many ballots as
there are jurors required;

3. A minute of the drawing shall be kept, in which the name
contained on each ballot drawn, shall be entered before another ballot
can be drawn ;

4. If, when the whole number of ballots required is drawn, it
appear that a person, whose name is drawn, is dead, or resides out of
the county, that fact shall be entered in the minute of the drawing,
and the ballot containing the name destroyed;

5. Another ballot must then be drawn in place of that destroyed,
and the name contained thereon shall in the same manner be entered
in the\minute of: the drawing;

6. The same proceedings shall be had, as often as necessary, until
the requisite number of ballots is drawn, exclusive of those appearing
to be dead or non-resident; .

7. The minute of the drawing shall then be signed by the clerk

and the attending officer, and immediately filed in the ofh'ce of the
former.

SEC. 930. A panel of the names of the persons drawn as jurors,
with their places of residence and occupation, and stating for what
court, and the particular term thereof, they were drawn, shall then be

made and certified by the clerk, and delivered without delay to the
sheriff of the county.

SEC. 931. At least five days before the first day of the term, the
sheriff shall summon the persons named in the panel delivered to him,

to attend the court, by giving written notice to each of them personally

or by leaving the same at his place of residence, with some person of
suitable age and discretion.

_ SEC. 932. The sheriff shall return such panel to the court at its

opening, specifying the persons summoned, and the manner in which
each was notified, and the date thereof.

SEC. 933. The court to which the panel of jurors is returned by
the sheriff, may impose a fine not exceeding twenty dollars, for each
day a juror, without reasonable cause, neglects to attend. If, however,
the notice to attend were not personally served, the fine shall not be
imposed, until, upon an order to shew cause an opportunity is afforded

‘ him to be heard. The oath of the juror shall be received in his favor

in any proceeding under this section.

SEC. 934. The county clerk shall preserve‘ the ballots drawn as provided in section 929, until after the adjournment. of the court, and
shall then :

1. Destroy the ballots containing the names of those who were
discharged, for want of a qualification mentioned in section 918, or by
reason of an exemption mentioned in section 919;

2. Deposit in the jury box, the ballots containing the names of
those who did not appear, or were discharged for any other reason than
those mentioned in the last subdivision ;

3. Deposit in a box to be denominated, the box of drawn jurors,
the ballots containing the names of those who attended and served.SEC. 935. The clerk of the court shall within one week after its
adjournment make and file in the office of the county clerk a certified
list of all the jurors returned to the court, specifying:

1. Those who were discharged for want of qualification, or by
reason of exemption; '

2. Those who did not appear or were discharged for any other
reason;

3. Those who attended and served, and the per diem and
mileage of each.

SEC. 936. Until the ballots in the jury‘box have all been drawn,
including those returned, as provided in subdivision 2 of section 934,
the ballots deposited in the box of drawn jurors, are not to be drawn
from, but whenever the ballots in the jury box have all been drawn,
and a new jury list has not been furnished, the ballots of drawn jurors
shall all be_rcturne(l to the jury box, and the jurors drawn therefrom
as before, until a new list is furnished. °

SEC. 937. "Whenever for any reason, the numberlof jurors, either in
whole or in part, required by this code, do notattend a term of court,
the court has power to direct the sheriff to summon forthwith from the
body of the county, persons having the qualifications of jurors, to serve
as such, during the term.

TITLE IV.
.R(3fcreL’s.
Ste. 938. Referee, delinition of. I 939- R0f¢l'8m‘€‘-1 d05“l1l0" 07SEC. 938. A referee is a person appointed by the court, or a judicial
oiiicer, with power:

1. To try an issue of law or of fact in a civil action, suit or proceeding, and report thereon ;

2. To ascertain any other fact in a civil action, suit or proceeding, when necessary for the information of the court, and report the
fact, or to take and report the evidence in a suit in equity ;

3. To execute an order, judgment or decree, or to exercise any

other power or perform any other duty expressly authorized by this
code.

SEC. 939. The appointment of a referee, is denominated a reference. The manner and occasion of making an order of reference are
elsewhere provided for in this code.

TITLE V.

(}omm2'ssioncrs to take ajidawts, and the proof and acknowledgments of deeds,
out of this state.

Ste. 940. How appointed, tenure of otliee, 941. Seal and oath of office, and where and
powers and duties. when filed.

SEC. 9-10. The governor may appoint as many commissioners in
each of the other states, or in a territory of the United States, or in the
District of Columbia, as he may deem expedient, who shall hold their
offices for four years, and may within the state, territory or district for
which they are appointed, and not otherwise, take and certify :

1. The proof or acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property within this state, or of any other written instrument to be. used or
operate therein ; .

2. The acknowledgment of satisfaction of any judgment or
decree of a court of this state;

3. An affidavit or deposition to be used in any court of justice,
or before any judicial oiiicer of this state ; and,

4. To exercise any other power, and perform any other duty
conferred or imposed upon them by this code or other statutes.

SEC. 941. A commissioner appointed under the last section shall,
before he can exercise the powers therein conferred, provide himself
with a seal of office, with the arms of this state engraved in the center
thereof, and with the following inscription surrounding the same:

“ Commissioner for Oregon, ————— ; ” the blank following the word

C HAPTER XIII.
Of the 7m'm'slcr[al qyiccrs of {lac cozu't.s- of jztslicc.

TITLE I.—D2'.3trict atlornq/.9.
TITLE II.— Clerks.

. TITLE III.—Slzerz' .9.

TITLE IV.——Esc(zpcs, and the liaI;£Z[{2'cs of s/a,rrz'[}Is therefore.

TITLE V.—A.ssig2z.nzcnt of the jail pre'._~*o7rcrs and process to a new sIzcr2'1?'.
TITLE VI.——}L'.sc-cllmzcous p2'or2'.~jv'o22.9 7'cspcc![72g shcrg'j}'Is and tlzcir o_1]z'ccr3.
TITLE VII.-—-C—’orone7's and cr[cr.s'.

TITLE I.

.Dc'st2'e'<.-a’ attornqa/.9.

SEC. 942. He is the public prosecutor. 948. To Iile account with county treasurer.
943. Must. attend courts and conduct. pros- 919. Action against him for failure to pay over
ecntions. money.

944. Duties as to proceedings before mngis- V 9.30. When not to receive fee or act as atwrney
trates and grand jury. in Civil action.

915. To prosecute for penalties, and defend when state a party. 8110088301‘.

94¢ Duties in suit fm. ,1“-orce. 955.’. Annual report to secretary of state.

947_ To deliver ,.ece;pt for money ,c_ 953. Court may appoint another in his absence.
ceived by him. I

951. Shall keep a register and deliver it to his

 
 

SEC. 942. The district attorney in each district, is the public prosecutor therein.

SEC. 943. He shall attend the terms of all courts having jurisdiction of public otlences within his distn~ic~t,g§g1_1d conduct, on behalf of
the state, all prosecutions for such of’r‘et1ces'tlie1'cin.

. SEC. 944. He shall institute pi-ocecclings before magistrates, for the
arrest of persons charged with, or reasonably suspected of public
offenses, when he has information that an_xf such offense has been committed, and attend upon and advise the grand jury when required.
SEC. 9-15. He shall prosecute for all penalties and forfeiturcs to the
state, which may be incurred in any county in his district, and for
which no other mode of prosecution and collection, is expressly provided by statute, and in like case, prosecute or defend, as the case may
be, all actions, suits or proceedings in any county in his district to
which the state or such county may be a party.

SEC. 946. In any suit for the dissolution of the marriage contract,
or to have the same declared void, the state is to be deemed a party
defendant, and the party plaintifff in such suit shall cause the summons
to be served upon the district attorney of the district within which the
suit is commenced, at least ten days before» the term at which the
defendant is required to appear and answer. It shall be the duty of
such district attorney, so far as may be necessary to prevent fraud or
collusion in such suit, to control theproceedings on the part of the
defense, and in case the defendant does not appear therein, or defend
against the same in good faith, to make a defense therein on behalf of
the state. 

SEC. 947. \Vhen he receives money or property in his official
capacity, he shall deliver a receipt therefore to the person from whom
he receives it, and file a duplicate thereof with the treasurer of the

county for which the same is received.

SEC. 948. IIe shall on or before the first Monday in January and
July of each year‘, file in the office of the county treasurer of the
proper county, an account in writing, verified by his own oath, of all
money received by him in his official capacity, during the preceding
half year, and shall at the same time pay it over to such county
treasurer.

SEC. 949. If he refuse or neglect to account for and "pay over money
so received, as required by the last section, the county treasurer shall
commence an action against him therefore, in the name of the county.

SEC. 950. IIe shall not receive any fee or reward from any private
person for his services in any criminal action, nor during the pendency
of such prosecution can he act as attorney for either party in any civil
action, suit or proceeding involving substantially the same controversy.

SEC. 951. The district attorney must keep a register of his official
business, in which he shall make a note of every action, suit or proceeding commcnced or defended by him in his ofiicial capacity, and
the proceedings therein. The register shall at the expiration of his
term of office, he delivered by him to his successor in oiiice.

SEC. 952. He shall on or before the tirst Monday in September of
each year, file in the oiiice of the secretary of ‘state, a Written report

of the amount and kind of ofiicial business by him transacted during
thepreceding year; specifying therein the nunihe1° of persons indicted
for public offenses, the number tried therefore, the result thereof, and
the punishment awarded, together with such particular statements and
suggestions as he may deem useful and interesting. » 9

SEC. 953. If the district attorney fail to attend any court at which
he is required to be, such court shall appoint another person to perform the duties of such attorney during his absence from the court,
who shall receive the legal fees for the business which he may transact

at such term, and a reasonable compensation for his attendance, to be
paid from the county treasur «',_upon the order of the court.

° TITLE II.

Clerks.
Sec. 954. Otlice of clerk of supreme court, ‘ 957. Any clerk may have deputy, how apwhero kept, and how furnished. pointed.
95.3. Ollice of county clerk, where kept. 958. Cannot act or have a partner act as at956. Ofllce hours. torney of same court.

959. Duties of clerks.

SEC. 954. The office of the clerk of the supreme court is kept at
the seat of government, in "such building or room thereat, as such
court may by order designate. The rent thereof, and the cost of such
fuel, lights, books and stationery as may be necessary therefore,.shal1be

ascertained and ordered to be paid by such court, from the treasury of
the state, in the same manner as the compensation of the crier and

bailiffs of such court is ascertained and paid.

SEC. 955. The office of the county clerk is kept in such building
or room at the place appointed by law for holding the courts therein,
as the county court may by order designate.

SEC. 956. Each clerk shall keep his oilzicc open for the transaction

of business, as follows:
1. A county clerk, on every judicial day, from eight to twelve

in the forenoon, and from one to live in the afternoon ;
2. The clerk of the supreme court, as such court may by order

direct.
SEC. 957. Each county clerk and the clerk of the supreme court
may have a deputy, to be appointed by such clerk in writing, and to

continue during his pleasure. Such deputy has the power to perform
any act or duty relating to the clerk’s office, that his principal has, and

his principal is responsible for his conduct.

SEC. 958. Each county clerk is prohibited during his continuance
in office, from acting, or having a partner who acts as an attorney of

the court of which he is clerk.

SEC. 959. It is the duty of the clerk of the supreme court and each
county clerk, for each of the courts of which he is clerk;

1. To keep the seal of the count, and aiiix it in all cases where
he is required by law.

2. To record the proceedings of the court.

3. To keep the records, files and other books and papers appertaining to the court;

4. To file all papers delivered to him for that purpose, in any
action, suit or proceeding in the court.

5. To attend the terms of the court of which he is clerk, to
administer oaths, and receive the verdict of a jury, in any action, suit,
or proceeding therein, in the presence and under the direction of
the court; _

6. To keep the journal of the proceedings of the court, at its
terms, and under the direction of the court to enter its orders, judgments and decrees ;

7. To authenticate, by certificate or transcript, as may be required,
the records, files or proceeding of the court, or any other paper appertaining thereto, and filed with him ;

8. To exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and
imposed upon him elsewhere by this code, or other statute.

9. In the performance of his duties, to conform to the direction

of the court.

mj

TITLE III.
S herffs.
Etc. 960. Oliice of, where ltept; and office 965. Howtoexecute process.
hours. 966. When he may commandtbe power of the
961. Service of papers on sheriii‘, how county.
made at office. 967. Duty of persons commanded, and conse962. May have deputy, how appointed. 9 qnenocs afrefusal.
,963. Special gppointmeut, how- made, 968. Sheritlis executive otlloerof the county.
sheriffs responsibility. His general duties.

954. When tofu:-nish copy of proeoss.- 969.. €'ounty not responsible fosvhis-acts.

Sac. 960. The sheriff of each county shall keep an oiliee in such
room or building ‘at the place appointed by law for holding courts
therein, as the county court may by order designate. The sheriff’s
office shall be kept open on the days, and during the hours required
for the county c1erk’s oiiice to be so.

Sec. 961. Service of a paper upon the sheriff may be made by
delivering it to a person belonging to and in the office during oiiice
hours, or if no such person be there, by leaving it in the office, or if
the office be not open, by. delivering it to the county clerk or his

deputy at the county clerk's office. The service in the cases provided *

in this section, is equivalent to a personal service on the sheriff.

SEC. 962. A sheriff may have a deputy, to be appointed by him in
writing, and to continue during his pleasure. A certified copy of the
appointment of a deputy sheriff shall be filed with the county clerk;
and the person appointed shall, before entering upon the duties of
the office, take and file with the county clerk the oath of office.

SEC. 963. A sheriff may also by special written appointment,
authorize any other person to do any particular act. A certified copy
of such appointment shall be filed with the county clerk, unless
indorsed upon the process, order or other paper, so authorized to be
served or executed. A deputy has the power to perform any act or
duty that his principal has, and a person specially appointed to do a
particular act, has the same power in relation to the particular act
authorized, and the principal is responsible for the conduct of such
deputy or person specially appointed.

SEC. 964. Wlien any process, order or paper is delivered to an
officer, to be executed or served, he shall deliver to the person delivering it, if required, on payment of his fee, a written memorandum,
specifying the names of the parties in the process, order or paper, the.
general nature thereof, and the day on which it was received. He’
shall also, when this code or other statute requires it, or upon the

request of the party served, without fee, deliver to him a copy thereof.

SEC. 965. An officer to whom any process, order or paper is delivered, shall execute or serve it according to its command, or direction,
or as required by this code or other statute, and must make a written
return of the execution or service thereof.

Sac. 966. When an bllicer finds or has reason to‘a1‘>p1'ehend, that
resistance will be made to the execution or service of any process,

order or paper, delivered to him for execution or service, and authorized by this code, or other statute; he may command as many male
inhabitants of his county as he may think proper and necessary, and
any military company or companies in the county, armed and equipped,
to assist him in overcoming the resistance, and if necessary in seizing,
arresting and connning the resisters and their aiders and abettors, to
be punished according to law.

SEC. 967. Every person commanded by an officer to assist him, as
provided in the last section, who without lawful cause, refuses or neglects to obey the command, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

SEC. 968. The sheriff is the chief executive officer, and conservator

of the peace of the county.’ In the execution of his office, it is.

his duty:
1. To arrest and commit to prison, all persons who break the
peace or attempt to break it, and all persons guilty of public offenses;
2. To defend his county against those who by riot or otherwise

endanger the public peace or safety;
3. To execute the process and orders of the courts of justice, or

of judicial officers, when delivered to him for that purpose, according

to the provisions of this code, or other statute;
4. To execute all warrants delivered to him for that purpose, by

other public officers, according to the provisions of particular statutes;
5. To attend the terms of the supreme, circuit, or county court
held Within his county, and to obey its lawful orders and directions.

SEC. 969. The county is not responsible for the acts of the sheriff.

TITLE IV.
Escapes, and the lz'abz'lz'tz'e3 of sherzfs therefore.

Ste. 970. In what cases prisoner to be actually 977. If security insutlieient, prisoner to be re’conlined. committed.
971. Sheriff, when liable for escape. 978. Surrender of prisoner.
972. Measure of damages in action for es- 979. Retaking prisoner, after escape.

¢ap¢,_ 980. Action may be maintained against.
973. Jail liberties, how and by whom es- Sheriff. 01' sureties for the liberties.

tabligbed, 981. Judgment against sheriff, when evidence
974. \Vhen jail liberties may be altered. 8811-illet safeties.

Order to be posted in jail. 982. Sheriff who connives at escape, guilty nf
975. Admission of prisonerto jail liberties. misdemeanor976. Undertaking therefore.
SEC. 970. A prisoner committed to the county_ jail for a contempt,

or for trial, or upon a conviction for a public offmce, _or in default of
security to appear as a witness in a criminal action, shall be actually
confined in the jail, until he is legally discharged»; and if he be permitted to go at large out of the jail, except by virtue of a legal order
or process, it is an escape, and the sheriff or jailor permitting it is
guilty of a misdemeanor, and when the prisoner escaping is also held
until he pay a sum of money to a private party, or a fine or penalty to
the state, such party or the state may recover, in a civil action against
the sheriff the damages sustained by reason of the escape.

SEC. 971. A sheriff who suffers the escape of a prisoner, arrested
or in jail, without the consent or connivance of the party on whose

behalf the arrest or imprisonment was made, is liable to an action by

such party therefore, as follows:

1. When the arrest is upon an order of arrest in a civil action,
suit or proceeding, when the presence of the defendant at the return
of the summons is necessary to enable the plaintifff to proceed therein,

and the defendant does not appear at the time and place specined in

the summons ;

2. When the arrest or imprisonment is upon an order of arrest
in any other civil action, suit or proceeding, or upon a surrender in
exoneration of the sheriff or of bail, and the defendant is not found
upon an execution against his person, issued to the proper county on
a judgment or decree in such action, suitor proceeding;

3. When the arrest is on an execution or commitment to enforce
the payment of money, and the party arrested is not re-captured or
surrendered into custody, at the expiration of the time limited for the
service thereof, or legally discharged therefrom;

4. When a person is imprisoned on an execution or commitment
to enforce the payment of money and he escapes after the time limited

for the service, and is ‘not re-captured or surrendered before an action
is commenced for the escape.

SEC. 972. The measure of damages, in an action for an escape, as
provided in the last section, is as follows:
1. For the escape mentioned in subdivision 1, the actual damages
sustained;
, 2. In any other case the amount expressed in the execution or
commitment.

SEC. 973. The county court of each county shall designate a reasonsonable space of ground, adjacent to the jail of the county, to be
denominated the jail liberties, as follows:

1. The liberties shall be laid out as nearly as may be in a square ;
except that a stream of water or highway may be adopted as an exterior
line, though not in a straight line, or at right angles with the other
exterior lines;

2. They shall not exceed five hundred acres in extent, and shall
include the court house, and the office of the county clerk;

3. A description of their boundaries and extent, shall be con’ mined in the order establishing them ;

4. The boundaries and limits shall be designated by visible and
permanent objects.

SEC. .974. Subject to the restrictions and limitations prescribed in
the last section, the county court may alter the jail liberties, not oftener
than once in two years. A certified copy of the order establishing or
altering the jail liberties, shall be immediately delivered by the county
clerk to the sheriff, who shall post the same in some conspicuous place
in the county jail.

SEC. 975. A person in the custody of the sheriff, in a civil action,
suit or’ pro’<_:eeding, by virtue of an order of arrest, or an execution, or
upon a surrender in exoneration of bail, or upon a commitment for
not paying money, may go at large within the jail liberties, with the
consent of the sheriff. He must, however, be admitted to the jail liberties, upon giving security therefore, as provided in the next section.

SEC. 976. The security for the jail liberties is taken by the sheriff,
and shall be by written undertaking, executed by one or more sumcient sureties, to the effect that the prisoner will not go beyond the
jail liberties, until legally discharged, or that the sureties will pay to
the person at whose suit the prisoner is in custody, a sum mentioned
in the undertaking, and which must be as follows :

1. If upon an order of arrest, or a surrender in exbneration of
bail, in a civil action, suit or proceeding before judgment or decree, the
sum recovered therein, not exceeding that mentioned in the writ of
arrest, with interest and the sheriff's fees;

2. If upon an execution in a civil action, suit or proceeding, or a
commitment for not paying money, a sum not exceeding that mentioned therein, with interest and the sheriff's fees.

SEC. 977. The sheriff is to determine the sufficiency of the sureties

in the undertaking, and if at any time after the giving of the undertaking, he discover that the sureties are insufiieient, he may recommit
the prisoner to jail, until other suflicieut surety be given.

SEC. 978. The sureties at any time before the judgment against
them upon their undertaking, may surrender the prisoner; or he may
surrender himself to the sheriff or jailer, in exoneration of his sureties from a future liability, but not from a liability incurred before the
surrender. The sheriff or the jailer shall thereupon, on the written
request of the sureties, receive the prisoner into custody, and shall
indorse the surrender upon the undertaking, and if required," give the
sureties a certificate thereof.

SEC. 979. If a prisoner, allowed by the sheriff to go at large within
the jail liberties, go beyond them, the sheriff in Whose custody he is
may pursue and re-take him, as if he had escaped from jail.

SEC. 980. An action for the escape of a prisoner confined in a jail,
or admitted to the jail liberties for either of the causes mentioned in
section 975, may be maintained by the party entitled thereto,
against either the sheriff or the sureties for the jail liberties; but the
election to sue the sureties discharges the sheriff.

SEC. 981. If the action mentioned in the last section be commenced
against the sheriff, and he give written notice thereof to the prisoner,

or his sureties, a judgment in such action against the sheriff is conclusive evidence of his right to recover against the prisoner or his sureties

as to any matter which was or might have been eontroverted in the
action against the sheriff ; and such judgment is evidence of the damages sustained by the sheriff whether the same has been collected off
him or not; and he is also entitled to recover his costs and reasonable
expenses in defending the action against him, as part of his damages.

SEC. 982. A sheriff, jailer, or other officer, who demands or receives
it reward or gratuity to aid or assist, or who connives at the escape of a
prisoner in his custody, for any of the causes mentioned in section 975,
is guilty of a misdemeanor.

TITLE V.
Ass{gmnent of the jail, prisoners, and process to a new sherifd

Ste. 983. Notice of qualification to former 985. Assignment of the same, and where filed.
sheriff, and effect thereof. 986. Execution and return of process by former
984. Delivery of jail, process and prison- sherili‘.
era to new she:-id‘. l

SEC. 983. When a. new sheriff is elected or appointed, and has
qualified, the county clerk shall give him a. certilicate of that fact,
under his seal of office. VVhenever thereafter, the new sheriff is
authorized by statute to enter upon the duties of the office, he shall
serve such certificate upon the former sheriff, from which time, his
powers cease, except when otherwise specially provided.

SEC. 984. Witliin one day after the service of the certificate upon
the former sheriff, he shall deliver to his successor:
1. The jail of the county, with its appurtenances and the property of the county therein:
2. The prisoners then confined in the county jail;
3. The process or other papers in his custody, authorizing or
relating to the confinement of the prisoners, or if they have been

returned, a written memorandum of them and the time and place of
their return ;

4. All process for the arrest of a party, and all papers relating to
the summoning of jurors which have not been fully executed;

5. All executions and final process, except those which he has
executed, or has begun to execute, by the collection of money or a levy
on property ;

6. All process or other papers for the enforcement of a provisional remedy not fully executed.

I‘

SEC. 985. He shall also at the same time deliver to the new sherili‘
a written assignment of the property, process, papers and prisoners
deliveredi The new sheriff shall thereupon acknowledge in writing
upon the assignment the receipt of the property, process, papers and
prisoners therein specified, and furnish the former sheriff with a certified copy thereof and file the original in the county clerk’s office.

SEC. 986. The former sheriff shall return all process, whether
before or after judgment or decree which he has fully executed, and
shall complete the execution of all final process which he has begun
to execute.

TITLE VI.

Jliscellancous provisions re.s*pcclz'ng slzcrgfs and their ojicers.

Ste. 987. Prisoners committed under process 988. Liability of sheriff for United States
from courts of the United States, prisoners.
compensation therefore. 989. Directions of party to sheriff, not to ex‘ cuse him unless in writing.

Ste. 990. Compensation of sheriff for services 993. Not to act as an attorney, nor have a partto the state. ner who does.
991. Sheriff justilisd by process regular 994. Papers directed to prisoner to be delivered
on its face. by sheriff.
992. In executing process bound to 995. Sheriff may appoint jailer. To be responshow it. sible for his acts.

SEC. 987. The sheriff shall receive and keep in the county jail
every prisoner who is committed thereto, under civil or criminal process, issued by a court of the United States, until he be discharged
according to the laws thereof, as if he had been committed under process issued by the authority of this state. He may also receive for his
own use the sum payable by the United States for the use of the jail,

SEC. 988. A sheriff or jailer to whose custody a prisoner is committed, as provided in the last section, is answerable for his safe keeping, in the courts of the United States, according to the laws thereof.

SEC. 989. No direction or authority, by a party or his attorney, to
a sheriff, or his officer, in respect to the execution of process or the
return thereof, or to any act or omission relating thereto, can be shewn
to discharge or excuse the sheriff from a liability for neglect or misconduct, unless it be contained in a writing signed by the party to be
charged or affected thereby, or his attorney.

SEC. 990. When a sheriff is legally ‘required to perform a service
on behalf of the state, which is not chargeable to his county, or some
other person, his account therefore must be audited by the secretary of
state, and paid out of the state treasury.

SEC. 991. A sheriff is justified in the execution of process, regular
on its face, and appearing to have been issued by competent authority,
Whatever may be the defect in the proceedings in which it was issued.

SEC. 992. A sheriff executing process, of any kind, is then, and at
all times subsequent, so long as he retains it, bound to show the same,
with all papers attached, to any person legally interested therein.

SEC. 993. A sheriff, or any sheriii"s officer, is prohibited during his
continuance in office, from acting or having a partner who acts as an

attorney.

SEC. 994. A sheriff or his oiiiccr, upon whom a paper in a judicial
proceeding, directed to a prisoner in his custody, is served, shall forthwith deliver it to the prisoner, with a note thereon of the time of its
service. For a neglect to do so the sheriff is liable to the prisoner for

all damages occasioned thereby; and by a willful omission in this
respect, the sheriff or his officer upon whom the paper is served, is
guilty of a misdemeanor.

SEC. 995. The sheriff may ‘appoint a keeper of the county jail, to
be denominated the jailer, for whose acts as such he is responsible.
The appointment shall be in writing, and the sheriff shall file a certified copy thereof in the office of the county clerk.

TITLE VII.

Coroners and cricrs.

81:0. 996. General powers and duties of. 998. Powers and duties of coroners in exe~
997. To execute process when sheriff 3 cuting process.
party. 999. Criers, their appointment, and duties.

SEC. 996. A coroner has power, and it is his duty:

1. VVhen he is informed that a person has been killed or dangerously wounded by another, or has suddenly died, under such circumstances as to afford a reasonable ground to suspect that his death
has been occasioned by criminal means, or has committed suicide, to
inquire by the intervention of a jury, into the cause of the death or
wound, and to perform the other duties incidental thereto, in the manner prescribed by statute.

2. To execute any process in any action, suit or proceeding,
when the sheriff is a party, as prescribed in this title ;

3. To exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and

imposed upon him, by other provisions of this code or other statute.

SEC. 997. W'hen the sheriff is a party to any action, suit or proceeding, the process therein, which it would otherwise be the duty of
the sheriff to execute, shall, except when otherwise expressly provided
by this code, be executed by the coroner of the county.

SEC. 998. A coroner who executes process in any action, suit or
proceeding, in the cases provided in this title, must execute it in the

same manner as the sheriff should execute similar process, and in the

execution thereof, and in every matter incidental thereto, he is invested
with the powers, duties and responsibilities of the sheriff.

CHAPTER XIV.

Of persons specially invested with ministerial powers, relating to the courts
of justice.

TITLE I.—Attorneys in general, and their admission.

TITLE II.—Duties of attorneys, and their authority.

TITLE III.— Change of attorney and his lien.

TITLE IV .—Resignation of attorney and efect thereof.

TITLE V.—Removal or suspension of attorneys, and the summary
power of court over.

TITLE VI.—.Persons specially authorized to execute process in particular cases.

TITLE V]I.—Receivers.

TITLE VIII.-— Trial, and district attorney fee.

TITLE I.
Attorneys in general, and their 

B10. 1000. Definition of an attorney. 1003. Application for admission, and proof

1001. When cause may be prosecuted or thereon.
defended in person or by attorney. 1004. Oath of office, and order of admiaion.

1002. Attorney a public oillcer, who may 1005. Attorneys of other states or counties may
act as such. appear as counsel.

BBC. 1000. An attorney is a person authorized to appear for and
represent a party, in the written proceedings in any action, suit or

proceeding, in any stage thereof; an attorney other than the one who

represents the party in the written proceedings may also appear for and
represent a party in court or before a judicial officer, and then he is

known in the particular action, suit or proceeding, as counsel only, and

his authority is limited to the matters that transpire in the court or
before such officer at the time.

S130. 1001. Any action, suit or proceeding may be prosecuted or
defended by a party in person, or by attorney, except that the state, or
a corporation, either public or private, appears by attorney in all cases;
and where a party appears by attorney, the written proceedings must
be in the name of the attorney, who is the sole representative of his
client as between him and the adverse party, except as provided in the
last section.

SEC. 1002. An attorney is a public officer, but any person may act
in that capacity, who has been admitted as such by the supreme court
of this state, or may be hereafter admitted as provided in this title.

Size. 1003. An applicant for admission as an attorney must apply
to the the supreme court, and must show :

1. That he is a citizen of the United States, and of this state,
and of the age of twenty-one years, which proof may be made by his
own affidavit ; i ‘

2. That he is a person of good moral character, which may be
proved by any evidence satisfactory to the court;

3. That he has the requisite learning and ability, which; must be
shown by the examination of the applicant, by the judges, or under
their direction, in open court, at the term at which the application is
made.

SEC. 1004. If, upon the examination, he be found qualitied, the
court. shall administer an oath to the applicant, to support the ‘constitution and laws of the United States, and of this state, and to faithfully
and honestly demean himself in office. The court shall then direct an
order to be entered, to the effect that the applicant is a citizen of the
United States, and of this state, of the age of twenty-one years, of
good moral character, and possesses the requisite learning and ability to
practice as an attorney, in all the courts of this state, and has taken
the oath of office; and upon the entry of the order he is entitled to
practice as such attorney, and not otherwise.

SEC. 1005. W'henever it appears that a person of any other state or
country is an attorney of the highest court of record in such state or
country, he may appear as counsel for a party in a particular action,
suit or proceeding then pending in court, or before a judicial oiliccr of
this state, and not otherwise.

TITLE II.
Duties of attorneys and their authorities.

Sac. 1086. Their general duties. 1009. When attorney may be compelled to show
1007. Authority of an attorney. authority.
1008. Proceedings, when party alleges
that atm-ney appears for him

without authority.

SEC. 1006. It is the duty of an attorney:

1. To support the constitution and laws of the United States, and
of this state; ‘

2. To maintain the respect due to the courts of justice and judicial otiieers;

3. To counsel or maintain such actions, suits, or proceedings, or
defenses, only, as may appear to him legal and just, except the defense
of a person charged with a public offense ;

4. To employ, for the purpose of maintaining the causes confided
to him, such means only as are consistent with truth, and never to
seek to mislead the court or jury, by any artifice, or titles statement of
law or fact; i

5. To maintain, inviolate, the confidence, and at every peril to
himself, to preserve the secrets of his clients ;

6. To abstain from all offensive personality, and to advance no
fact prejudicial to the honor or reputation of a party or witness, unless
required by the justice of the cause with which he is charged ;

7. Not to encourage either the commencement or the continuance of an action, suitor proceeding, from any motives of passion or
interest; and

8. Never to reject, for any consideration personal to himself, the
cause of the defeneeless or the oppressed.

SEC. 1007. An attorney has authority :

1. To bind his client, in any of the proceedings in an action,
suit or proceeding, by his agreement filed with the clerk, or entered
upon the journal of the court, and not otherwise ;

2. To receive money or property claimed by his client in an
action, suit or proeeedin g, during the pendeney thereof, or within three
years after judgment or decree, and upon the payment or delivery
thereof, and not otherwise, to discharge the claim, or acknowledge satisfaction of the judgment or decree :

But this section does not prevent a party from employing a new
attorney, to issue execution upon a judgment or decree, or to take the
other proceedings, prescribed by this code for its enforcement; and
when he does so the authority of the former attorney ceases.

SEC. 1008. If it be alleged by a party for whom an attorney
appears, that he does so without authority, and the allegation be verified by the affidavit of the party, the court may, if it find the allegation
true, at any stage of the proceedings, relieve the party for Whom the
attorney has assumed to appear, from the consequences of his acts.

SEC. 1009. The court or judge thereof, may, on motion of either
party, and on showing reasonable ground therefore, require the attorney
for the adverse party, or for any one of several adverse parties, to produce or prove the authority under which he appears, and until he does
so, may stay all proceedings by him on behalf of the party for whom
he assumes to appear.

TITLE III.
Change of attorney, and his lien.

8l:c. 1010. Attorney, how changed. 1012. Lien of attorneys.
1011. Notice of change.

BBC. 1010. The attorney in an action, suit or proceeding, may be

changed at any time before judgment or decree, or final determination,
as follows:

1. Upon his own consent filed with the clerk or entered upon the
journal; or,

2. Upon the order of the court or judge thereof, on the application of the client, or the attorney, for sufficient cause.

SEC. 1011. When an attorney is changed, as provided in the last
section, written notice of the change and of the substitution of a new
attorney, or of the appearance of the party in person, shall be given

to the adverse party. Until then he is bound to recognize the former
attorney.

SEC. 1012. An attorney has a lien for his compensation, whether
specially agreed upon, or implied, as provided in this section:
1. Upon the papers of his client, which have come into his possession in the course of his professional employment;

‘.2. Upon money in his hands belonging to his client;

3. Upon 1il01lL‘_V in the hands of the adverse party, in an action,
suit or [j)I‘OCCO&.lll"l_g‘, in which the attorney was employed, from the time
of giving notice of the lien to that part ';

4. Upon i1j1ixlgIll€'nt or decree, to the extent of the costs included
them ill, or if there he a special agreement, to the extent of the compen .;..tion .<p{;<,i‘.1lly agreed on, from the giving notice thereof to the
party 3.g'.3.lltSlZWlt0l11 the judgment or decree is given, and filing the
ori_;_;i»;-.ti with the clerk where such judgment or decree is entered and
d(){,'l{. Etcd.

’.=;‘i.i.~x lien is, however, subordinate to the rights existing between the
part}. .1‘ to the action, suit or proceeding.

TITLE IV.
Jt’t*..a}/2.’.«,rlion. of attorneys, and eject thereof.
81-.» L ‘if 1% . ».:.;~:t~n, hmv made, and its i 1014. Certilied copy of, to be filed in supreme
411' "L. l court, may be readmitted.

f'“.;."_:. '5 An attorxiey may at any time file in the office of the
cc: .I‘.{‘.   the county in which he resides, awritten resignation;
at-.7 -.11, ~.~ {nu tiling tliereof. he is not entitled to the rights, nor subject
to  : if . l;iii.‘it-s or prohibitions incident to that relation; except that
h.» 1: —.-3;? «;»;h,it~t:z. to the power of the court in respect to matters
gr; .':.:-__» '.~}.=-...: he was an attorney.

rr 3 ‘E  1. 'l‘E1t- 1?l(.*I'l{ of the county with whom such resignation is
1'“. 4, . ' l'I‘-l.'(}4'll2llI:“l.\' forward a certified copy thereof to the clerk of
';2‘-«' .   .. -wsurt, who shall file the same in his office. An attorney
1..  1-..:-: : =' 1,; nu], may. at any time thereafter be re-admitted to prac1, . 4;. .;;_,  in the stone manner as if he had never been so admitted.

TITLE V.
J-.. ~ . ’ ;.. ; ;,.,,,w'.m cf ulto7'neg/3, and the summary power of court over.
.‘_~.. - ‘-"xi  §~ L . .3, ..an anti for what causes, 10l7. Accusatiomhow made.
. :«_v nay to removed or 1018. Order for accused to appear and anB\\'8l‘.

;.   ;v"¢=N-rwlitug to be in- 1019. If accused do not appear, court to pro.'.  .1 ceed.

SEC. 1020. May demur to or controvent the 10533. Circuit or county court may suspend ataccusrtion. torneys until next term of supreme

1021. If demurrer not sustained, must court.
answer forthwith. Judgment for 10524. Proceeding to compel an attorney to dewant of answer or trial. liver over money or papers.

1029. Accusation on knowledge of the 1025. How court to proceed, if attorney claim
court presumed to be true, but alien.

may [be] shown otherwise.

SEC. 1015. An attorney may be removed or suspended by the
supreme court for either of the following causes, arising after his
admission to practice :

1. Upon his being convicted of any felony, or of a misdemeanor,
involving moral turpitude; in either of which cases, the record of his
conviction is conclusive evidence ;

2. For a willful disobedience or violation of the order of a court,
requiring him to do or forbear an act connected with, or in the course
of his profession ;

3. For being guilty of any willful deceit or misconduct in his
profession;

4. For a willful violation of any of the provisions of section 1006.

SEC. 1016. The proceeding to remove an attorney, as provided in
the last section, shall be taken by the court, of its own motion, for
matters within its knowledge, or that of any of the judges thereof,
otherwise it may be taken upon the information of another.

SEC. 1017. If the proceedings be upon the motion of the court or
judges thereof, for matters within its knowledge, the accusation shall
be made by an order of the court reciting the facts charged. If upon
the information of another, the accusation must be presented to the
court, in writing, and verified by the oath of the person making it, or
of some other person, to the effect that the charges therein contained
are true, as he believes.

SEC. 1018. After the accusation has been made or received, the
court shall forthwith make an order requiring the accused to appear
and answer the accusation, at a specihed time in the same, or a subsequent term ; and shall cause a copy of the order and of the accusation
to be served upon the accused, within a prescribed time, before the
day appointed in the order to appear and answer. But when the
proceeding is upon the information of another, the accusation shall be
dismissed at once, unless it appear therefrom that the accused should
be required to appear and answer the same.

Sec. 1019. The accused must appear at the time‘ appointed in the
order, and answer the accusation, unless, for sufficient cause, the court
assign another day for that purpose. If he do not appear the court
may proceed and determine the accusation in his absence.

SEC. 1020. The accused may demur to the accusation for insufficiency, or controvert it by answer. The demurrer and answer shall be
in writing, and the latter shall be verified by the oath of the accused
in the same manner as a pleading in an action at law.

SI-zc. 1021. If a demurrer for insutlicieney be not sustained, the
accused shall answer forthwith. If he plead guilty, or refuse to answer
the accusation, the court shall proceed to judgment of removal or suspension. If he controvert the matters charged, the court shall then,
or at such time as it may appoint, proceed to try the accusation, and

give a judgment of removal, suspension or acquittal, according to law,
and the right of the case.

SEC. 1022. \Vhen an accusation is made upon the knowledge of
the court, or the judges thereof, the facts therein stated are presumed
to be true, but if the accused controvert the accusation, he is allowed,
on the trial, to overcome such presumption, by the introduction of any
proper or pertinent evidence therefore.

SEC. 1023. Any circuit or county court may suspend an attorney
from practicing therein for any of the causes mentioned in section 1015,
for a period not beyond the adjournment of the next term of the
supreme court. The mode of proceeding shall be the same as provided
in like proceedings in the supreme court. The court giving the judgment of suspension shall cause a certified copy of the judgment, pleadings and proceedings to be transmitted to the supreme court at the
next term thereof, and thereupon such court shall proceed against the
party suspended, as if the proceeding had originated in that court.

S130. 1024. VVhen an attorney refuses to deliver over money or
papers, to a person, from or for whom he has received them in the
course of professionalemployment, whether in a judicial proceeding
or not, he may be required by an order of the court in which a judicial
proceeding was prosecuted or defended, or if none were prosecuted or
defended; then by an order of "the circuit court or judge thereof for
the county where such attorney resides or may be found, to do so
within a specified time, or show cause why he should not be punished
for a contempt.

SEC. 1025. If, however, the attorney claim a lein upon the money
or papers, under the provisions of section 1012, the court shall:

1. Impose as a condition of making the order that the client give
security, in form and amount to be directed, to satisfy the lien, when
determined in an action or suit; or

2. Summarily inquire into the facts on which the claim of a lien
is founded, and determine the same; or

3. Direct the trial of the controversy by a jury, or refer it, and
upon the verdict or report, determine the same as in other cases.

TITLE VI.

Persons specially authorized to execute process in particular cases.

Ste. 1026. Elisor, when and by whom up 1027. General powers, duties and responsibilipointed. tics of elisor.

SEC. 1026. Process in any action, suit or proceeding may be executed by a person specially appointed by the court or judge thereof,
who is denominated an elisor, in either of the following cases:

1. When the sheriff and coroner are parties ;
2. When either of those oiiicers is a party, and the process is
against one of them, for a disobedience of an order or process against

the other.
3. When the oiiiee of sheriff and coroner are vacant, or when it

appears to the satisfaction of such court or judge, that such process
should be executed immediately, and before the sheriff or coroner
could be reached.

SEC. 1027. An elisor may be required to give security in such manner as the court may direct. When process is delivered to him, he
must execute it in the same manner as the sheriff should execute similar process, and in the execution thereof‘, and in every matter incidental thereto, he is invested with the powers, duties and responsibilities

of the sheriff.

TITLE VII.

Receivers.

Size. 1028. Receiver, definition of. 1030. His oath and undertaking.
1019. In what cases he may be appointed.

Sac. 1028. A receiver is a person appointed by a court or judicial
officer, to take charge of property during the pendency of a civil action,
suit or proceeding, or upon a judgment, decree or order therein, and to
manage and dispose of it as the court or oiiicer may direct.

SEC. 1029. A receiver may be appointed in any civil action, suit or
proceeding, other than an action for the recovery of specific personal
P1'°P°1'tY 3

1. Provisionally, before judgment or decree, on the application
of either party, when his right to the property, which is the subject of
the action, suit or proceeding, and which is in the possession of an
adverse party, is probable, and the property, or its rents or profits, are
in danger of being lost or materially injured or impaired;

2. After judgment or decree, to carry the same into effect;

3. To dispose of the property according to the judgment or
decree, or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or when
an execution has been returned unsatisfied, and the debtor refuses to
apply his property in satisfaction of the judgment or decree ;

4. In cases provided in this code, or by other statutes, when a
corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent, or in imminent danger
of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights ;

5. In the cases provided in this code, when a debtor has been
declared insolvent.

SEC. 1030. A receiver, before entering upon his duties, shall be
sworn faithfully to perform his trust, to the best of his ability, and
shall also file with the clerk of the court, an undertaking, of one or
more sutiicient sureties, in a specified sum, to be fixed by the court or
judge thereof, the effect that he will faithfully discharge the duties of
receiver, and will obey the orders of the court or judge thereof, in
respect thereto. The sureties must justify in the same manner as bail
upon an arrest.

TITLE VIII.
Trial, and district attorney fee.

83¢. 1031. Trial, and attorney fee, definition of. 1034. When state or county a party, fee need
1032. Trial fee, amount of in the several not be paid by it.
courts. 1035. In justice's court when and to whom paid.
1033. Trial fee, to be paid by whom, and 1036. Proceeding in circuit court, where county‘
when recoverodas a disbursement. court has jurisdiction.

Sec. 1037. When party too poor to pay fee, 1041. Fee of district attorney.

may proceed without it. 1045.’. How and by whom paid.
1038. Trial fee to be paid to clerk. Clerk 1043. In criminal action fee to be taxed against
to pay to treasurer and keep ac- defendant.
count. 1044. In other than criminal action, fee no;
1039. Trial fees in supreme court, how dis- taxed, but county entitled to costs.
posed of. Fees earned in supreme court,how paid.
1040. In justice's court, fee to be paid to
jury by justice.

SEO. 1031. Partids to a judicial proceeding, are required to contribute towards the expense of maintaining courts of justice, or a par- '

tieular action, suit or proceeding therein, by the payment of certain
sums of money, as provided in this title, which are denominated trial
and district attorney’s fees.

SEC. 1032. The trial fee in the several courts is as follows.

1. In the supreme court, upon each appeal heard and determined,
—-six dollars;

2. In the circuit. court, for every trial by jury,—twelve dollars;
for every trial by the eourt,—six dollars ; for every judgment or decree
given Without trial,—three dollars ;

3. In the the county court one half the amount required in the
circuit court in like cases;

4. In justices court, for every trial by jury,—six dollars.

SEC. 1033. The trial fee is to be paid by the plaintifff, appellant or
moving party, before he is entitled to or can claim the trial or other
proceeding upon which such fee is imposed, and if the party paying
such fee prevail in the action suit or proceeding, so as to be entitled to
recover costs therein, such fee shall be allowed and taxed as a disbursement, and collected off the adverse party.

81:10. 1034. \Vhen the state or any county therein is a party to a.

judicial proceeding, it need not pay the trial fee in advance, and if it
be entitled to recover costs therein, such fee shall be allowed and taxed
in its favor as a disbursement, and collected off the adverse party as
in ordinary cases.

SEC. 1035. The trial fee in a justices court, shall be paid to the

_ justice upon the demand for a jury, and unless so paid, the demand

..shall be disregarded, and the trial proceed as if no such demand had
been made ; except, when a party is prosecuted in a criminal action at
the suit of the state, in which case, the party is entitled to a jury trial
without the prepayment of such fee, and if judgment be given against

him the fee shall be allowed and taxed in favor of the state as other'

disbursements, in ordinary cases.

SEC. 1036. Whenever any action, suit or proceeding is commenced
ingthe circuit court, which might have been commenced in the county
court, the plaintifff therein, shall pay the trial fees required in the circuit court, but shall not be entitled to recover off the adverse party,

any more of such fees than an amount equal to the fees in the county
court in a like case.

SEC. 1037. If at any time it appear to the satisfaction of the court
or judge thereof, from the allidavit of the party or other evidence, that
he cannot pay the trial fee, such court or judge may direct that he be
allowed to proceed without the prepayment thereof, but if such party
prevail so as to be entitled to collect such fee as a disbursement off the

adverse party, when collected, it shall be retained by the clerk as if
paid in advance.

SEC. 1038. The trial fees shall be paid to the clerk of the court,
who shall keep a regular account of them, and by whom paid in his
fee book, and pay the amount of such fees received, to the treasurer of
the county, as often as once a month, taking his receipt therefore in
duplicate, one of which such clerk shall file in his oilice, and the other
he may retain as his private property. At the annual accounting of
the county officers with the county court, the clerk shall exhibit to
such court, a detailed statement of the trial fees received by him in the
course of the year, verified by his own oath.

SEC. 1039. The trial fees in the supreme court, shall be paid,
deposited and accounted for as provided in the last section, except that
they shall be paid by the clerk to the treasurer of the state, and that
the verified statement of the clerk shall be made to the secretary of state
state on or before the first Monday in September, for the year preceding.

SEC. 1040. In justices court, the trial fee is paid to the justice. He
shall keep an account of them and by whom paid, and distribute the
amount among the jury in the particular case, in payment of their

legal fees.

SEC. 1041. The district attorney in addition to the salary and per
diem allowed by law, shall receive the following fees :
1. In a criminal action, where the punishment is death or imprisonment for life, if the defendant is convicted,——twenty-five dollars, or
if acquitted, one-half thereof ;

2. In a criminal action, where the punishment is imprisonment
in the penitentiary for a term of years, if the defendant is convicted,
--fifteen dollars, or if acquitted, one-half thereof;

3. In a criminal action for a misdemeanor, if the defendant is
convicted, ten dollars, or if acquitted, one half thereof;

4. In a civil action for the recovery of any fine, penalty or forfeiture, ten per cent. of the amount recovered;

5. For prosecuting or defending any other civil action, suit or
proceeding, not herein mentioned, to which the state or any county in
his district may be a party, twenty five-dollars ;

6. For actually defending on behalf of the state, a suit for the
dissolution of the marriage contract, or to declare the same void,
twenty dollars.

7. For prosecuting or defending any action, suit or proceeding
herein mentioned on an appeal to the supreme court, twenty dollars;

SEC. 1042. The fees provided in the last section shall be paid to
the district attorney by the county where the service is rendered. At
each term of court, the court shall ascertain the fees to which the
district attorney is entitled for the term, and direct an order to be
entered upon the journal that the same be paid. Upon the presentation of a certified copy of such order to the proper officer of the
county, it is his duty to draw his warrant upon the treasurer of the
county for the amount therein speciiied.

SEC. 1043. In a criminal action if the defendant is convicted, the
clerk shall allow and tax in favor of the county, the amount of the
district attoney’s fee in the action, which shall be collected off the
defendant. Such fees shall be paid by the clerk to the treasurer of the
county, and accounted for in the same manner as trial fees.

SEC. 1044. In an action, suit or proceeding, other than a criminal
action, the fee of the district attorney is not taxed as a disbursement,
but the county that is liable to pay such fee, is entitled to costs off the
adverse party as in ordinary cases. Such costs when collected, shall
be paid by the clerk to the treasurer of the county and accounted for
in the same manner as trial fees. Fees earned in the supreme court
are to be paid by the county from whence the appeal was taken, upon
the order of the court as in the courts below, and when collected are
disposed of in the same manner.

CHAPTER XV.

TITLE I.—In general.
TITLE II.—The proof of wills and the appointment of executors

and administrators.

TITLE III.—The inventory of the estate.
TITLE IV .— The support of the widow and minor children.

TITLE V.—C'laims against the estate.

TITLE VI.—Sale of property by executors or administrators.
TITLE VII.—Accounts of executors and administrators.

TITLE VIH.—Pa3/ment of claims and charges.

TITLE I.
In general.

Bee. 1045. Forms of pleadings. 1048. Index to such books.

1046. Nature of procedure. How court 1049. Costs and disbursements.
exercises its powers. 1050. Orders or decrees for the payment of

1047. Books and records relating to pro- money, how enforced.
bate matters.

See. 1045. There are no particular pleadings or forms thereof, in
the county court, when exercising the jurisdiction of probate matters,
as specified in section 869, other than as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 1046. The mode of proceeding is in the nature of that in a
suit in equity as distinguished from an action at law. The proceedings
are in writing, and are had upon the application of aparty, or the order
of the court. The court exercises its powers by means of:

1. A citation to the party:
An affidavit or the verified petition or statement of a party;
A subpoena to a witness;
Orders and decrees; and
An execution or warrant to enforce them.

.°':"*':‘-°!°

Size. 1047. The proceedings in probate matters shall be entered
and recorded in the following books :

1. A register, in which shall be entered a memorandum of all
official business transacted by the court or judge thereof, appertaining
to the estate of each person deceased, under the name of such person ;
that pertaining to the guardianship of an infant under the name of
such infant ; that pertaining to an insane person or a drunkard, under
his name ;

2. A record of wills, in which shall be recorded all wills proven
before the court or judge thereof with the order of probate thereof,
and of all “ills proved elsewhere, upon which letters of administration are issued by the direction of such court or judge ;

3. A record of the appointment of administrators, whether general or special, or of a partnership and of executors;

4. A record of the appointment of guardians of infants, insane
persons and drunkards ;

5. A record of accounting and distribution, in which shall be
entered a summary balance sheet, of the accounts of administrators,
executors and guardians, with the orders and decrees relating to the
same; a memorandum of executions issued thereon, with a note of
satisfaction when satisfied ; also, orders and decrees relating to the sale
of real property, and to the distribution of the proceeds thereof; and
notices of all money or securities paid or deposited in court, as proceeds of such sales, or otherwise; and a statement showing the names
of creditors, and the debts established and entitled to distribution, the
amount to which each person is entitled out of such funds, and the
amount actually paid to each person, and when paid;

6. A record of the appointment of admeasurer of dower, with
all orders and decrees relating to the same, and the admeasurers reports;

7. An order book in which shall be entered orders directing the
conduct of executors, administrators or guardians ; orders for publication of not.ice to creditors, orders in behalf of creditors, directing
debts to be paid, or allowing an execution to be issued ; appointments
of special guardians, appraisers and referees; order relating to the
production of a will, to removal of executors, administrators or guardians, or to sureties therefore; and generally, all other orders not
required to be entered in some other.

Sec. 1048. To each of such books, there shall be attached an
index, securely bound in the volume, referring to the entries or records

in alphabetical order, under the name of the person to whose estate or
business they relate, and naming the page of the book where the entry
or record is made.

SEC. 1049. Costs may be awarded in favor of one party against
another, to be paid personally or out of the estate or fund, in any proceedings contested adversely, but such costs cannot exceed those
allowed in the trial of a civil action in the county court. Witnesses’

fees and other disbursements similar to those allowed on the trial of a
civil action may also be allowed to be paid in like manner.

SEC. 1050. Orders or decrees for the payment of money may be
enforced by execution, or otherwise in the same manner as orders or
decrees for the payment of money in the circuit court.

TITLE II.

The proof of wills, and the appozfmnzcnl of executors and aa'm2'm'strators.
SIC. 1051. In what county will may be proven, 1066. Death, resignation, or removal of one

and when, or all the executors or administrators,
1052. Who is to be appointed executor, or effect of.
administrator with the will au- 1067. New administrator may maintain action
nexed, against former one, his snreties or
1053. In what court administration to be representatives.
granted, and who is entitled 1068. Power of the court overanadnainistrator.
thereto, 1069. When deceased a member of a co-part1054. When persons entitled must apply. ncrship, inventory and appraisement of
1055. Administration to be granted to the estate. '
husband, unless. 1070. Partnership property may be administered
1056. Undertaking of executor or admiu- by surviving partner. Application
istrator. therefore.
1057. Qualilication and justification of 1071. Denominated an administrator of the
sureties. partnership, his powers and duties.
1058. A non-resident or minor. may quali- 1072. Undertaking of administrator of the
fy as executor after the removal partnership.
of the disability. 1073. When administration of partnership
1059. Appointment of special administra- properly devolves upon the general adtor. ministrator.
1060. Petition to state facts. 1074. Duty of surviving partner, towards adl06l. Proceedings, when will found after ' ministrator.
administration granted. 1075:. How last section may be enforced.
1062. Heir, may apply for removal of ex- 1076. Who not qualified to act as executor or
ecutor or administrator. administrator.
1063. Non resident executor or admini3- 1077. Form of letters testamentary.
trator, may be removed. 1078. Form of letters of administration.
1064. New undertaking, when old insut'- 1.079. Resignation of executor or administrator
iicient.

1065. Effect of new undertaking, or the
failure to give it.

Sec. 1051. Proof of a will shall be taken by the county court

as follows :
1. When the testator, at or immediately before his death, was an

inhabitant of the county, in whatever place he may have died;
2. \\'hen the testator, not being an inhabitant of this state, shall

have died in the county leaving assets therein ;
3. 'When the testator not being an inhabitant of this state, shall

have died out of the state, leaving assets in the county;
4. V\'hen the testator, not being an inhabitant of this state, shall
have died out of the state, not leaving assets therein, but where assets

thereafter come into the county ;

a. \\''hen real property, devised by the testator, is situated in the

county, and no other county court has gained jurisdiction, under
either of the preceding subdivisions of this section.

Sac. 10:32. When a will is proven, letters testamentary shall be
issued to the persons therein named as executors, or to such of them
as give notice of their acceptance of the trust and are qualified. If all
the persons therein named decline to accept or be disqualified, letters
of administration with the will annexed shall be issued to the person,
to whom the administration would have been granted, if there had

been no will.

Sac. 10.33. Administration of the estate of an intestate shall be
granted by the county court, authorized to take proof of a will,
as prescribed in section 1051, in case such intestate had made a
will. Administration shall be granted, and letters thereof issue as

follows:
1. To the Wl(l0W or next of kin, or both, in the discretion of the

.2 To one or more of the principal creditors; or
3. To any other person competent and qualified whom the court
may select.

S130. 1054. The persons named in the subdivisions of the last section, if qualified and competent for the trust, shall be entitled to the
administration in the order therein named. If those named in subdivision 1 do not apply for the administration within thirty days from
the decease of the intestate, they shall be deemed to have renounced
their right thereto, but the court or judge thereof in its discretion may,
if they reside within the county, direct that a citation issue to them,
requiring them within such period to apply for or renounce their right

of administration; and if the persons named in subdivision 2 do not

make such application within forty days from such decease, they shall
be deemed to have renounced their right to the administration also.

SEC. 1055. If the deceased were a married woman, the administration of her estate, shall in all cases be granted to her husband, if
he be qualified and competent for the trust, and apply therefore within

thirty days from her decease, unless by force of a marriage settlement,
or otherwise, she shall have made some testamentary disposition of her

property, which shall render it necessary and proper to grant the
administration to some other person.

SEC. 1056. No executor or administrator is authorized to act as
such, until he shall file with the clerk an undertaking, with one or
more sufficient sureties, in a sum not less than twice the probable value
of the estate, payable to whom it may concern, to be void upon the
condition that such executor or administrator faithfully performs his
trust according to law.

SEC. 1057. The sureties in such undertaking shall have the qualifications of bail upon arrest, and shall justify before the court or judge
thereof, and the justification shall be filed with the undertaking.

SEC. 1058. If a person be named in a will as executor, who is a
non-resident of the state or a minor, upon the removal of such disability, he is entitled to qualify as such executor, if he apply therefore
within thirty days from the removal of such disability, if otherwise
competent. If, in the meantime, an administrator with the will
annexed, has been appointed, his powers and duties cease with the
qualification of such executor; but if another executor has qualified
and is acting as such, they thereby become joint executors.

SEC. 1059. When for any reason there shall be delay in issuing
letters testamentary or of administration, and the property of the
deceased is in danger of being lost, injured or depreciated, the court
or judge thereof may appoint a special administrator, to take charge
of the estate; who shall qualify in like manner, and have the powers
and perform the duties of an administrator generally, except that he is
not authorized to pay the debts of, or otherwise discharge any obligation against the deceased. Upon the issuing of letters testamentary or
of administration, the powers of the special administrator cease.

SEC. 1060. In an application to prove a will or for the appointment
of an executor or administrator, the petition shall set forth the facts

necessary to give the court jurisdiction, and also state whether the

deceased left a will or not, and the names age and residence so far as
known of his heirs.

SEC. 1061. If, after administration has been granted upon an estate,
a will of the deceased be found and proven, the letters of administration
shall be revoked, and letters testamentary or of administration with the
will annexed, shall be issued; and if after a will has been proven, and
letters testamentary or of administration with the will annexed, have
been issued thereon, such will should be set. aside, declared void, or
inoperative, such letters shall be revoked, and letters of administration
issued.

SEC. 1062. Any heir, legatee, devisee, creditor, or other person
interested in the estate, may apply for the removal of an executor or
administrator, who has become of unsound mind, or been convicted
of any felony, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or who
has, in any way, been unfaithful to, or neglected his trust, to the probable loss of the applicant. Such application shall be by petition, and
upon notice to the executor or administrator, and if the court find the
charge to be true, it shall make an older removing such executor or
administrator, and revoke his letters.

SEC. 1063. If an executor or administrator become a non-resident
of this state, he may be removed and his letters revoked in the manner
prescribed in the last section, except that the notice may be given by
publication for such time as the court or judge thereof may direct.

SEC. 1064. Whenever the amount of an exeeutor’s or administrator’s
undertaking is insufficient, or the sureties therein, or either of them,
have become non-residents of this state, or are likely to, or have
become insolvent, such executor or administrator shall be required to
give a new and sufficient undertaking. The application for such new
undertaking may be made by any heir, legatee, devisee, creditor, or
other person interested in the estate, and in the manner prescribed in
section 1062, for the removal of executors and administrators.

SEC. 1065. Such new undertaking when given and received, shall
discharge the sureties in the former undertaking, from any liability on
account of their principal, arising from his acts or omissions subsequent thereto. Wlien a new undertaking is ordered, if the executor
or administrator fail to comply therewith, within five days from the
entry thereof, or such further time as the order may prescribe, thenceforward the authority of such exector or administrator shall cease, and
he shall be deemed removed and his letters revoked.

SEC. 1066. Whenever an executor or administrator shall die, resign
or be removed, if there be a co-executor or administrator, he shall
thenceforward exercise the powers and perform the duties of the trust;
and if all the executors or administrators shall die, resign, or be
removed, administration of the estate remaining unadministered, shall
be granted to those next entitled, if they be competent and qualiiied.

SEO. 1067. The surviving or remaining executor or administrator,
or the new administrator as the case may be, is entitled to the exclusive administration of the estate, and for that purpose may maintain
any necessary and proper action, suit or proceeding on account thereof,
against the executor or administrator ceasing to act or against his
surctics or representatives.

Sec. 1068. Whenever, it, appears probable to the court or judge
that any of the causes for removal of an exector or administrator exist
or have transpired as specified in section 1062, it shall be the duty of
such court or judge to cite such executor or administrator to appear and
show cause why he should not be removed, and if he fail to appear, or
to show sufhcient cause, an order shall be made removing him and
revoking his letters; and it is the duty of the court or judge thereof
to exercise a supervisory control over an executor or administrator, to
the end, that he faithfully and diligently perform the duties of his
trust, according to law.

SEC. 1069. The executor or administrator of a deceased person
who was a member a co-partnership, shall include in the inventory of
such person’s estate in a separate schedule, the whole of the property
of such partnership ; and the appraisers shall estimate the value thereof,
and also the value of such person’s individual interest in the partnership property, after the payment or satisfaction of all the debts and
liabilities of the partnership.

SEC. 1070. After the inventory is taken the partnership property
shall be in the custody and control of the executor or administrator for
the purposes of administration, unless the surviving partner shall,
within five days from the filing of the inventory, or such further time
as the court or judge may allow, apply for the administration thereof,
and give the undertaking therefore hereinafter prescribed.

SEC. 1071. If the surviving partner apply therefore as provided in

the last section, he is entitled to the administration of the partnership
estate, if he have the qualifications and competency required for a general administrator. He is denominated an administrator of the partnership, and his powers and duties extend to the settlement of the
partnership business generally, and the payment or transfer of the
interest of the deceased in the partner:-:liip property remaining after the
payment or satisfaction of the debts and liabilities of the partnership,
to the executor or general administrator within six months from the
date of his appointment, or such further time if necessary as the court
or judge may allow. In the exercise of his powers and the performance of his duties, the administrator of the partnership, is subject to

the same limitations and liabilities, and control and jurisdiction of the
court, as a general administrator.

SEC. 1072. The undertaking of the administrator of the partnership, shall be in a sum not less than double the value of the partnership property, and shall be given in the same manner and be to the
same effect as the undertaking of a general administrator.

S150. 1073. In case the surviving partner is not appointed administrator of the partnership, the administration thereof devolves upon the
executor or general administrator, but before entering upon the duties
of such administration, he shall give an additional undertaking in
double the value of the partnership property.

SEC. 1074. Every surviving partner, on the demand of an executor
or administrator of a deceased partner, shall exhibit and give information concerning the property of the partnership at the time of the
death of the deceased partner, so that the same may be correctly
inventoried and appraised; and in case the administration thereof
shall devolve upon the executor or administrator, such survivor shall
deliver or transfer to him on demand all the property of the partnership, including all books, papers and documents pertaining to the same,
and shall afford him all reasonable information and facilities for the
performance of the duties of his trust.

Size. 1075. Any surviving partner who shall refuse or neglect to
comply with the requirements of the last section, may be cited to
appear before the court or judge, and unless he show cause to the contrary, the court or judge shall require him to comply with such section
in the particular complained of.

SEC. 1076. The following persons are not qualified to act as executors or administrators: non-residents of this state; minors; judicial
officers, other than justices of the peace; persons of unsound mind,
or who have been convicted of any felony, or of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude ; or a married woman.

SEC. 1077. Letters testamentary may be in the following form :

STATE or OREGON, }
ss

COUNTY or

To all persons to whom these presents shall come, Greetmg :

Know ye, that the will of , deceased, a copy of which is
hereto annexed, has been duly proven in the county court, for the
county aforesaid, and that , who is named executor therein,
has been duly appointed such executor by the court aforesaid; this,
thereforee, authorizes the said to administer the estate of the
said , deceased, according to law.

In testimony whereof, I, —— , clerk of the
county court have hereunto subscribed my name
[L. s.] and affixed the seal of said court, this day of
, A. D. 18-. A. 13.,
Clerk County Court.

SEC. 1078. Letters of administration may be in the following form :

   

STATE or Om-zoox, }
ss

COUNTY or

To all persons to whom these presents shall come, Greetzfrzg :

Know ye, that it appearing to the court aforesaid that —--— has
died intestate, leaving at the time of his death property in this state,
such court, has duly appointed administrator of the estate
of such ; this, thereforee, authorizes the said —— to
administer the estate of the said , deceased, according to law.

In testimony whereof, &c., the same as in letters testamentary. Letters to an administrator of the partnership, with the will annexed, or
to a special administrator, may be issued according to the foregoing
forms, with such variations as may be proper in the particular case.

 

   

   

SEC. 1079. The court or judge thereof in its discretion may allow
an executor or administrator to resign, when it appears that such'exe‘cutor or administrator has published a notice of his intention to apply
therefore in some newspaper in general circulation in the county for the

period of four Weeks prior to such application, and that he is not in
default in any matter connected with the duties of his trust. Such

executor or administrator shall pay the costs of the proceeding, and if
the application is allowed, he shall surrender his letters to be canceled,

and his powers as such, shall cease from that time forward.

TITLE III.
The inventory of the eslale.

Sec. 1080. Inventory, when made and how 1088. Who entitled to the possession and converified. trol of property of deceased.
1081. Inventory, what to contain. 1089. Proceeding against person charged with
1082. Appraiscment, and appointment of secreting property or writing relating
appraiser. , thereto.
1083. Oath of appraisers. 1090. Mode of examination of such person.
1084. Appraisement of money and debts. 1091. Proceeding in case such person refuses to
1885. Debt due by person named in will appear or answer.
as executor. l 1092. Proceeding to compel account against
1086. Discharge or bequest of aclaim by party entrusted with any portion of
will, effect of. estate.
1087. Property discovered after tiling in- 1093. Damages for conversion of property beventory. fore administration.

SEC. 1080. An executor or administrator, shall, within one month
from the date of his appointment, or, if necessary, such further time
as the court or judge thereof may allow, make, and file with the clerk,
an inventory, verified by his own oath, of all the real and personal
property of the deceased, which shall come to his possession or
knowledge. '

SEC. 1081. The inventory shall contain an account of all money
belonging to deceased, or a statement that none has come to the possession or knowledge of the executor or administrator; also a statement
of all debts due the deceased, the written evidence thereof, and the
security therefore, if any exist, specifying the name of each debtor, the
date of each written evidence of debt, and security therefore, the sum

originally payable, the indorsements thereon, if any, and their dates,
and the sum appearing then to be due thereon.

S130. 1082. Before the inventory is filed, the property therein specified, shall be appraised at its true cash value, by three disinterested and
competent persons, who shall be appointed by the court or judge
thereof; but if any part of the propert_v shall be in a county, other
than that where the administration is granted, the appraisers thereof

may be appointed by such court or judge, or the court or judge thereof
of the county Where the property shall be ; in the latter case a certified
copy of the order of appointment, shall be filed with the inventory.

SEC. 1083. Before making the appraisement, the appraisers shall
each take and subscribe, an affidavit, to be filed with the inventory, to
the effect, that he will honestly and impartially appraise the property
which shall be exhibited to him, according to the best of his knowledge and ability.

SEO. 1084. The appraisers shall appraise each article of property
separately, and set down the value thereof in dollars and cents, opposite the entry of the article in the inventory. Money, of whatever
nature, that is a legal tender, is to be appraised at its nominal value;
but debts of all descriptions or kinds are to be appraised at that sum,
which in the judgment of the appraisers, may be realized from them,

by due process of law. When the appraisement is completed, the
inventory shall be signed by the appraisers.

SEC. 1085. The naming any one executor in a will, shall not
operate to discharge such executor from any claim which the testator
had against him, but the claim shall be included in the inventory, and,
if the person so named, afterwards take upon himself the administration of the estate, he shall be liable for such claim as for so much
money in his hands at the time the claim became due and payable,
otherwise he is liable for such claim as any other debtor of the deceased.

S120. 1086. The discharge or bequest in a will, of any claim of the .

testator against a person named as executor therein, or against any
other person, shall as against the creditors of the deceased be invalid.
Such claim shall be included in the inventory, and for all the purposes
of administration, is to be deemed and treated as a specific legacy of
that amount.

SEC. 1087. If after the filing of the inventory, property not mentioned therein shall come to the knowledge or possession of the
executor or administrator, it is his duty immediately to make an

inventory thereof, and cause the same to be appraised in the manner
prescribed in this title, and file the same with the clerk.

Sec. 1088. The executor or administrator is entitled to the possession and control of the property of the deceased, both real and personal, and to receive the rents and profits thereof, until the administration is completed, or the same is surrendered to the heirs or devisees,

by order of the court or judge thereof; but where such property or
any portion thereof is in the possession of a third person by virtue of
a.valid subsisting lease or bailment the possession and control of the
executor or administrator is subordinate to the right of the lessee or
bailee. During the time the property is in the possession or control
of the executor oradministrator, it is his duty to keep the same in
repair, and preserve it from loss or decay as far as possible.

SEO. 1089. Whenever it appears probable from the aiiidavit of an
executor or administrator, or that of an heir or other person interested
in the estate, that any person has concealed, or in any way secreted or
disposed of any property of the estate, or any writing relating or pertaining thereto, or that such person has knowledge of any such property
or writing being so concealed, secreted or disposed of, and refuse to
disclose the same to the executor or administrator, the court or judge
thereof upon the application of such executor or administrator, may
cite such person to appear and answer under oath concerning the matter charged.

SEC. 1090. Such examination may be oral or upon written interrogatories filed by the applicant, but in either case the answers of the
person cited shall be reduced to writing, and subscribed by him and
filed. If such person be not in the county, where administration is
granted, the proceeding may be either before the court or judge
thereof of such county, or before the court. or judge thereof of the
county where such person resides or may be found. In the latter case,
a certified copy of the written interrogatories, if any, and the examination or other proceeding thereon or connected therewith, shall be
filed with the clerk of the court where administration is granted.

SEC. 1091. If the person so cited refuse to appear, or to answer
such interrogatories as may be allowed to be put to him, touching the
matter charged, he may be punished for a contempt, or may at once be
committed, by the warrant of the judge to the county jail there to
remain in close custody until he submits to the order of the court
or judge.

SEC. 1092. The court or judge thereof, upon the application of the
executor or administrator, may cite any person who has been entrusted
with any of the property of the deceased, to appear and answer concerning the same, when it appears probable that such person refuses or
neglects to render to the executor or administrator at true account

thereof. The application shall be made and the proceeding conducted
in the manner prescribed in sections 1089, 1090, and 1091 concerning
property or Writings alleged to be concealed, and with like effect.

SEC. 1093. If any person shall, before administration is granted,
embezzlc, alien or in any way convert to his own use, any of the
property of a deceased person, he is liable to the executor or administrator, in double the amount of damages which may be assessed therefore.

TITLE IV.
The support of the widow and minor children.

Szc. 1094. Provision for widow or minor clnil- 1096. Further order for support, when made.
dren before administration is 1097. When the whole of estate to be set apart

granted. to widow and children.
1095. Property to be set apart, and effect 1098. When estate all to be deemed assets.
of.

SEC. 1094. Until administration of the estate has been granted and
the inventory filed, the widow and minor children of the deceased, are
entitled to remain in the possession of the homestead, all the wearing
apparel of the family, and household furniture of the deceased, and
also to have a reasonable provision for their support, during such
period, to be allowed by the court or judge thereof.

SEC. 1095. Upon the filing of the inventory, the court or judge
thereof‘, shall make an order, setting apart, for the widow or minor
children of the deceased, if any, all the property of the estate, by law
exempt from execution. The property thus set apart, if there be a
widow, is her property, to be used or expended by her in the maintenance of herself and minor children, if any ; or if there be no widow,
it is the property of the minor child; or if more than one, of the
minor children in equal shares ; to be used or expended in the nurture
and education of such child or children, by the guardian thereof as
the law directs.

Sac. 1096. If the property so exempt, is insufficient for the support
of the widow and minor children, according to their circumstances
and condition in life, for one year after the filing of the inventory, the
court or judge thereof may order that the executor or administrator
pay to such widow, if any, and if not, then, to the guardian of such
minor children an amount sufficient for that purpose ; but such order

shall not be made unless it appear probable that the estate is sufiicient

to satisfy all the debts and liabilities of the deceased and pay the
expenses of administration in addition to the payment of such amount.

SEC. 1097. If, from the inventory of an intestate’s estate, who died
leaving a widow or minor children, it appears that the value of the
estate does not exceed one hundred and hfty dollars over and above

property exempt from execution, upon the tiling of the inventory the
court orjudge thereof shall make a decree providing, that the Whole
of the estate, after the payment of funeral expenses and expenses of
administration, be set apart, for such Widow or minor children, in like
manner and with like effect, as in case of property exempt from execution. There shall be no further proceeding in the administration of
such estate, unless further property be discovered.

SEO. 1098. If an intestate leave neither widow or minor children,
all the property of the estate is assets in the hands of the administrator, for the payment of funeral expenses, expenses of administration,
payment of the debts of the deceased, or distribution according to law.

TITLE V.
Claims against the estate.

Sec. 1099. Publication of notice by executor 1103. Effect of judgment against executor or

administrate r a n d c o n tents administrator.

thereof. 1104. Judgment against deceased in his life
1100. Proof of publication, effect of not time.

presenting claim according to no- 1105. When and how claim may be referred.

tice. 1106. Proceeding by referee, and effect of.
1101. Claim. how presented, and veritiea- 1107. Claim of executor or administrator.

tion of. 1108. Such claim may be determined on the
1102. Claim to be allowed or rejected, if settlement of final account.

barred not to be allowed.

SEO. 1099. Every executor or administrator, shall, immediately
after his appointment, publish a notice thereof, in some newspaper
published in the county, if there be one, or otherwise, in such paper
as may be designated by the court or judge thereof, as often as once a
week, for tour successive weeks, and ottener if the court or judge shall
so direct. Such notice shall require all persons having claims against
the estate, to present them, with the proper vouchers, within six months
from the date of such notice, to the executor or administrator, at a

place within the county therein specified.

SEC. 1100. Before the expiration of the six months mentioned in
the last section, a copy of the notice as published, with the proper
proof of publication, shall be filed with the clerk. A claim not presented within six months after the first publication of the notice, is not
barred, but it cannot be paid until the claims presented within that
period have been satisiied; and if the claim be not then due, or if it
be contingent, it shall nevertheless be presented as any other claim.
Until the administration has been completed, a claim against the
estate not barred by the statute of limitations, may be presented,
allowed and paid out of any assets then in the hands of the executor
or administrator not otherwise appropriated or liable.

SEC. 1101. Every claim presented to the executor or administrator,
shall be verified by the affidavit of the claimant, or some one on his
behalf, who has personal knowledge of the facts, to the effect that the
amount claimed is justly due, that no payments have been made
thereon, except as stated, and that there is no just counterclaim to
the same to the knowledge of the ailiant. When it appears or is
alleged that there is any written evidence of such claim the same may
be demanded by the executor or administrator, or that its non-production be accounted for.

SEC. 1102. When a claim is presented to the executor or administrator, as prescribed in the last section, he shall indorse upon it his
allowance or rejection, with the date thereof; and if he allow it, shall
pay it in due course of administration. No claim shall be allowed by
the executor or administrator which is barred by the statute of
limitations.

SEC. 1103. The effect of a judgment or decree against an executor
or administrator, on account of a claim again st the estate of his testator
or intestate, is only to establish the claim, as if it had been allowed by
him, so as to require it to be satished in due course of administration,
unless it appear that the complaint alleged assets in his hand applicable
to the satisfaction of such claim, and that such allegation was admitted
or found to be true, in which case the judgment or decree may be
enforced against such executor or administrator personally.

SEO. 1104. A claim established by judgment or decree against the
deceased in his life time, need not be verified by affidavit, but it is sufficient to present a certified copy of the judgment docket thereof, to
the executor or administrator for allowance or rejection, as in other

cases; but this section is not to be construed to prevent an execution

from being issued upon such judgment or decree as elsewhere provided
in this code.

S130. 1105. If the executor or administrator doubt the validity of
any claim presented to him, he may agree in writing with the claimant
that an order of reference be made by the court or judge thereof, concerning the same. Upon the filing of such agreement, such court or
judge shall make the order accordingly.

SEC. 1106. The referee shall proceed to hear and determine the
matter, and report thereon to the court, where the order of reference
was made, in the same manner and with like effect as if the order was
made in an action or suit upon such claim.

SEC. 1107. If the executor or administrator is himself a creditor of
the testator or intestate, his claim, duly verified, may be presented to
the court or judge thereof, for allowance or rejection, but the allowance of such claim by such court or judge, does not conclude a creditor, heir or other person interested in the estate, in any action, suit or
proceeding between such executor or administrator, and such creditor,
heir or other person.

SEC. 1108. If the court or judge thereof, reject the claim of the
executor or administrator, either in whole or in part, or in case the
same is not presented for allowance as provided in the last section, the
executor or administrator may retain the amount thereof until the final
settlement of his accounts, when, if the same is controverted or
objected to by any person interested in the estate, the right of the
executor or administrator to have the allowance claimed, shall be tried
and determined by the court. If the claim is not presented to the court
or judge, as provided in section 1107, before it is barred by the statute
of limitations, such claim cannot be allowed, retained or recovered.

TITLE VI.
Sale of property by executors or admznislrators.

Size. 1109. Sale of propert_v,how made, and ap-  1112. Personal property may be sold at priplication therefore. vate sale. Articles of, specially be11l0. Order of sale of personal property. queathed.
1111. Sales of property thereunder, and _ 1113. Wlien real property may be sold, where
manner thereof. I same specially bequeathed.

Petition for order of sale of real

property, what shall contain.

1115. Citation to heirs and devisees, to
shew cause.

1116. Service of citation.

1117. Hearing and order of sale.

ll|8. Sale, how made. security for purchase money, how taken.

1119. Return of sale, and objections
thereto.

1120. When sale confirmed and when vacated.

ll‘2l. Recitals in conveyance, and effect
thereof.

1122. When real estate may be sold to
pay legacy, or exempt specilic bequest from sale.

1123. Sale of property under will.

1124. Proceeding in case property appropriated insufficient.

1125. Bequests and legacies when liable

for debts.

Sac. 1114.

1126. Sale of contract for the purchase of real
property.

1127. Sale subject to payments to be made on
contract. Undertaking of purchaser
in relation thereto.

1128. Assignment of contract and effect thereof.

1129. Order to redeem mortgaged property.

1130. Order for the sale of mortgaged property.

1131. Order making application of proceeds of
sale of mortgaged property.

1132. Certain sections not to include mortgage
foreclosed, or where suit has been

commenced for that purpose.

1133. When debt not due, how satisfied.
1134. Effect of order of confirmation of sale.

Purchase by executor or administrator
void.

1135. When executor or administrator may
avoid fraudulent or void conveyances
or judgments of the deceased.

1136. Order allowing proceedings therefore.

1137. Disposition of property recovered on

such proceeding.

SEC. 1109. No sale of the property of an estate is valid unless made
by order of the court or judge thereof, as in this title prescribed, unless
herein otherwise provided. The application for an order of sale shall
he by the petition of the executor or administrator, and in case of real
property, a. citation to the heirs and others interested in such property.

See. 1110. Upon the filing of the inventory or at the next term of
court, the executor shall make an application to sell the personal property of the estate, or so much thereof as may be necessary to pay the
funeral charges, expenses of administration and the claims, if any,
against the estate; and it shall be the duty of the court or judge to
grant such order, and to direct and prescribe therein the terms of sale
upon which such property shall be sold, whether for cash or on credit,
or both.

SEC. 1111. Thereafter, the executor or administrator shall sell such
personal property from time to time for the purposes specified in the
last section‘, and as often and as much thereof as may be necessary.
Such sale shall be conducted in the same manner as a sale of personal
property on execution, unless otherwise provided in this title.

SEC. 1112. If upon the application for an order of sale, or upon a
subsequent application for that purpose, it appears to the court or judge
that it would be for the interest of the estate, it may order that the

‘executor or administrator may sell all the personal property of the
estate or any article thereof at private sale. If any articles of personal
property have been specially bequeathed, they are to be exempt from
the operation of the order of sale, so long as any property of the
estate not specially devised or bequeathed, remains unsold, or appropriated to the purposes specified in section 1110.

SEC. 1113. Wlien the proceeds of the sale of personal property
have been exhausted, and the charges, expenses and claims specified
in section 1110 have not all been satisfied, the executor or administrator shall sell the real property of the estate or so much thereof, as may
be necessary for that purpose. If any of such real property have been
specially devised, it shall be exempt from the operation of the order of
sale, in the same manner as personal property specially bequeathed.

SEC. 1114. The petition for the order of sale of real property, shall
state the amount of the sales of personal property, the charges, expenses
and claims still unsatisfied so far as the same can be ascertained, a description of the real property of the estate, the condition and probable
value of the different portions or lots thereof, the amount and nature.
of any liens thereon, the names, ages and residence of the devisees, if
any, and of the heirs of the deceased, so far as known.

Size. 1115. Upon the nling of the petition, a citation shall issue to
the devisees and heirs therein mentioned and to all others unknown,
if any such there be, to appear at a term of court therein mentioned,
not less than ten days after the service of such citation, to show cause
if any exist, why an order of sale should not be made as in the petition

prayed for.

SEC. 1116. Upon an heir or devisee, known, and resident Within
this state, such citation shall be served and returned as a summons,
and upon an heir or devisee unknown, or non-resident, it may be
served by publication, not less than four weeks, or for such further
time as the court or judge may prescribe. When service of the citation is made by publication, there shall be published with it a brief

description of the property described in the petition.

SEC. 1117. If upon the hearing, the court nnd that it is necessary
that the real property or any portion thereof should be sold, it shall
make the order accordingly and prescribe the terms thereof, whether
of cash or credit, or both ; and if the court find that such property cannot be divided without probable injury and loss to the estate, it may

order that it, or any specinc lot or portion thereof shall be sold wholly,
whether otherwise necessary or not.

SEC. 1118. Upon the order being made, the executor or administrator shall sell the property therein speciiied upon the terms therein
directed, and in the manner herein otherwise provided. Such sale
shall be made in the same manner as like property is sold on execution. When the sale is upon credit, the executor or administrator,
shall take the note of the purchaser for the purchase money, with a
mortgage upon the property to secure the payment thereof.

SEC. 1119. At the term of court next following the sale of real
property, the executor or administrator, shall make a return of his
proceedings concerning such sale. At such term any of the persons
cited to appear on the application for the order of sale may file his

objections to the conhrmation of such sale.

S130. 1120. Upon the hearing the court shall conhrm the sale and
decree that the executor or administrator make a conveyance to the
purchaser, unless it appear that there were irregularities in the sale, or
that the sum hidden for the property is disproportionate to the value
thereof, and that a sum exceeding such bid at least ten per cent., exclusive of the expenses of a new sale, may be obtained therefore, in either
of which cases the court shall make an order vacating the sale and
directing that the property be resold ; and upon such second sale, the
property or any specific portion or lot thereof ordered to be "re-sold,
shall be sold as if no previous sale had taken place. In case no objections are made to the confirmation of the sale as provided in section
1119, the court shall nevertheless examine the proceedings concerning
such sale, and if it appear proper, may make the order of resale provided for in this section in the same manner and with like effect as if

objections had been filed thereto.

SEC. 1121. A conveyance executed by the executor or administrator shall set forth the original order of sale and the order confirming
the same and directing the conveyance, and shall operate to convey all
the estate right and interest of the testator or intestate in the premises

at the time of his death.

SEC. 1122. When a testator shall have specially bequeathed any
specific article of personal property, or given any legacy by will, and
there shall not be sufficient personal property, besides such specific
article, or the value of such legacy, to pay the funeral charges, expenses

of administration, and claims against the estate, the executor or administrator shall obtain an order to sell the real property sufiicient to make
up the deficiency, in the manner hereinbefore provided.

SEC. 1123. VVhen the testator shall make provision in his will for
the sale or disposition of all, or any particular portion of his estate, for
t.he payment of funeral charges, expenses of administration, or of
claims against the estate, the property so appropriated may be sold or
disposed of as directed by the executor or administrator with the will
annexed, without an order of the court therefore; but he shall be
bound to conduct the sale, and make a return thereof in all respects,
as if it were made by order of the court, unless there are special directions in the will concerning the manner and terms of sale, in which
case he shall be governed by such directions in such respects.

SEO. 1124. If the provision made by the Will, or the property
thereby appropriated, be insufficient for the purpose intended, the
remaining portion of the estate may be sold for that purpose according

to the provisions of this title.

S30. 1125. The property, real and personal, given by the will to
any devisee or legatee, is liable for the payment of the funeral charges,
expenses of administration, and of claims against the estate, and if
there be more than one such devisee or legatee, then in proportion to
the value or amount of the several devises or legacies; except that
specific devises and legacies shall be exempt from such liability, if
such appear to have been the intention of the testator, and there be
other sufficient property to satisfy such charges, expenses and claims.

SEC. 1126. If the deceased was, at the time of his death, a party
to a contract for the purchase of real property, his interest in such real

property by virtue of such contract, may be sold in the same manner,
as if such contract had been executed in the life time of the deceased

by a conveyance to him of such property according to the legal effect
and terms of such contract.

SEC. 1127. If there be any payments due or to become due on such
contract to the vendor of the deceased, the sale is made subject thereto,

and before the same can be confirmed or the contract assigned to the
purchaser, such purchaser shall execute an undertaking with one or
more suiiicient sureties, in an amount not less than double the value of
all the payments then due or to become due, for the benefit of whom
it may concern, to be void upon the condition that such purchaser will

make all such payments according to the terms of such contract, and
indemnify the executor or administrator or others Whom it may concern, against all damages, costs and expenses, by reason of any covenant or agreement contained in such contract.

SEC. 1128. The order of confirmation of such sale shall direct the
executor or administrator to make an assignment of such contract to
the purchaser, which assignment shall vest in the purchaser, his heirs
and assigns, all the estate, right and interest of the deceased at the time
of his death in such real property ; and give to the purchaser the same
rights and remedies against the vendor thereof, as the deceased would

have had or been entitled to, if living.

SEC. 1129. If the deceased left any property real or personal, under
mortgage, and did not devise or provide for the redemption of the
same by Will, the court or judge thereof upon the application of the
executor or administrator, or the application of an heir or creditor or
other person interested in the estate, may order the executor or administrator to redeem such property out of the proceeds of the other personal property; if it appear that such redemption would be for the

interest of the estate, and not prejudicial to creditors.

SEC. 1130. If upon such application such redemption be deemed
not proper, or inexpedient, the court shall order such property to be
sold in like manner and with like effect, as is provided in other cases

of the sale of real property by this title; and the conveyance to the purchaser shall operate to convey to him all the estate, right and interest,
which the deceased would have had in the property, had _not the same

been mortgaged by him.’

SEC. 1131. Ten days before making an order for the application of
the proceeds of such sale, the mortgagee or other person to Whom the

debt which is secured by such mortgage is payable shall be cited to
appear and show the amount of his debt and make his objections if
any to the report of the expenses of the proceeding and sale as claimed
by the executor or administrator, and thereupon the court shall order
that the proceeds of the sale, be first applied to be payment of the
proper expenses of the proceeding and sale, and secondly to the satisfaction of such debt, and the residue, if any, in due course of

administration.

SEO. 1132. Sections 1129, 1130 and 1131, shall not be construed to
include a mortgage which has been foreclosed or upon which a suit has

been commenced for foreclosure, before the.application for the order
of redemption or sale is made, nor to any other lien arising upon judgment or decree given against the deceased in his life time.

SEC. 1133. If the debt secured by the mortgage mentioned in section 1129, be not due at the time of the making of the order for
redemption or application of the proceeds of sale, the party to Whom
it is payable shall be entitled to receive in satisfaction thereof such sum
as may be ascertained to be equal to the present value thereof.

SEC. 1134. The order of confirmation of sale in this title mentioned,
is conclusive as to the regularity of the sale, and no further. All purchases of the property of the estate by an executor or administrator,
however made, whether directly or indirectly, are prohibited; and if
made, are void.

SEC. 1135. Whenever the assets of the estate are insufficient to
satisfy the funeral charges, expenses of administration, and the claims
against the estate, and the deceased shall in his life time have made or
suffered any conveyance, transfer, or sale of any property real or personal, or any right or interest therein, with intent to delay, hinder or
defraud creditors, or when such conveyance, transfer or sale has been
so made or suffered, that the same is void in law as against creditors,
or when the deceased in his life time, has suffered, consented, or procured any judgment or decree to be given against him with such
intent, or in such manner as to be likewise void, it is the duty of such
executor or administrator to make application by petition to the county
court or judge thereof, for leave to commence and prosecute to final
judgment or decree, the necessary and proper actions, suits or proceedings, to have such conveyance, transfer, sale, judgment or decree,
declared void, and the property affected thereby, discharged from the
effect thereof.

SE0. 1136. If upon the application it appear to such court or judge
that the assets are insufficient for the purposes specified in the last
section, and that it is probable that the conveyance, transfer, judgment,
or decree was made, suffered, consented to, or procured with the intent
or in the manner specified in the last section, it shall make the order
directing the proceedings to be commenced and prosecuted as to any
or all of the matters alleged in the petition and necessary to supply
the deficiency in the assets.

SEO. 1137. The property recovered by means of any proceeding

in pursuance of the -last two sections, is to be sold and appropriated to
supply the deficiency mentioned in section 1134, in the same manner
as other like property, but the right to, or interest in, the surplus, if
any, remains as if such proceeding had not been allowed or commenced.

TITLE VII.
Accounts of executors and adm2'72.istrators.
SIC. 1138. When filed, and what to contain. 1145. For what he is responsible. Either of
1139. Proceeding if administrator neglect increase or decrease of the estate.
to file an account. 1146. Expenses and compensation of adminisll40. Order for the payment expenses, trator.
charges and claims. 1147. Same subject.
1141. Final account, when filed and what 1148. Amount of compensation.
tocontain. 1149. Proceeding in a case of neglect to file
1142. Objections to final account, by whom final account.
and when made. 1150. Administrator may compound for debt
1143. Decree upon final account and effect due estate.
thereof.
1144. Administrator with the amount of
inventory.

SEC. 1138. An executor or administrator shall within six months
from the date of the notice of his appointment, and every six months
thereafter, until the administration is completed, and he is discharged
from his trust, render an account verified by his own oath and file the
same with the clerk, showing the amount of money received and
expended by him, from whom received and to whom paid, with the
proper voucher for such payments; the amount of the claims
presented against the estate, and allowed or disallowed, and the name
of the claimants of each, and any other matter necessary to shew the

condition of the affairs thereof.

SEC. 1139. An executor or administrator who shall fail to file an
account as required in the last section, may be required by a citation
ordered by the court or judge to appear and do so, either upon the
application of an heir or creditor or other person interested in the
estate, or without it. If the executor or administrator refuse or neglect
to appear when cited, or to file the account as required, he may be
punished for a contempt, or by warrant of the j udgc be committed at
once to close custody in the jail of the county until he consent to do so.

Sec. 1140. At the first term of the court after the filing of the
first semi-annual account and each semi-annual account thereafter, the

court shall ascertain and determine if the estate be sufficient to satisfy
the claims presented and allowed by the executor or administrator
within the first six months or any succeeding period of six months
thereafter, after the date of the notice of his appointment, after paying
the funeral charges, and expenses of administration, and if so, it shall
so order and direct, but if the estate be insufiicient for that purpose,
it shall ascertain what per cent. of such claims it is sufiicient to satisfy,
and order and direct accordingly.

SEC. 1141. When the estate is fully administered, it shall be the
duty of the executor or administrator to file his final account. Such
account shall be verified by his own oath, and contain a detailed statement of the amount of money received and expended by him, from
whom received and to whom paid and refer to the vouchers for such
payments, and the amount of money and property, if any, remaining
unexpended or appropriated. Upon the filing of the final account the
court or judge thereof shall make an order directing notice thereof to
be given in the same manner as the notice of an appointment of an
executor or administrator, and appoint a day at some term subsequent
thereto for the hearing of objections to such final account and the
settlement thereof.

SEC. 1142. Any heir, creditor or other person interested in the
estate, may on or before the day appointed for such hearing and settlement file his objections thereto, or to any particular item thereof,
specifying the particulars of such objections ; but no creditor shall be
allowed to object to such account, whose claim has been satisfied as
allowed by the executor or administrator, or ‘established by judgment
or decree.

Sec. 1143. Upon the hearing the court shall give a decree allowing
or disallowing the iinal account either in whole or in part as may be
just and right, and such decree in any other action, suit or proceeding
between the parties interested or their representatives is primary evidence of the correctness of the account, as thereby allowed and settled.

SEC. 1144. An executor or administrator, is chargeable in his

account with all the property of the estate which may come°into his
possession, at the value of the appraisement contained in the inventory,
except as in this title otherwise provided.

S20. 1145. He shall not make profit by the increase in value of the
property of the estate ; nor-suffer loss for the decrease in value or the

destruction thereof, without his fault; and if any of the property of
the estate sell for more than its appraised value, he shall account for
the excess, and if any such property sell for less than its appraised
value, he shall not be responsible for the loss, unless occasioned by his
fault. He shall not be accountable for the debts due the estate, if it
appear that they remain uncollected without his fault. He shall not
purchase any claim against the estate which he represents, and if he
satisfies any such claim for less than its nominal value, he is only entitled to charge in his account the sum actually paid.

SEC. 1146. An executor or administrator shall be allowed in the
settlement of his account, all necessary expenses incurred in the care,
management and settlement of the estate, including reasonable attorney fees in any necessary litigation, or matter requiring legal advice or
counsel. For his services, he shall receive such compensation as the
law provides; but when the deceased by his will, has 1nade special
provision for the compensation of his executor, such executor is not
entitled to any other compensation for his services, unless he shall
within ten days after his appointment, subscribe and file with the
clerk a written declaration renouncing the compensation provided by
the will.

SEC. 1147. Notwithstanding the provision in the will for the compensation of an executor, if the estate be insufficient to satisfy the
claims against it, the court shall reduce such compensation, so far as
may be necessary to satisfy such claims, to an amount equal to what
the executor would have been entitled, if no such provision had
been made. .

SEC. 1148. The compensation provided by law for an executor or
administrator is a commission upon the whole estate accounted for by
him as follows :

1. For the first thousand dollars, or any less sum, at the rate of
seven per cent. thereof;

2. For all above that sum and not exceeding two thousand dollars, at the rate -of five per cent. thereof;

3. ' For all above two thousand and not exceeding four thousand
dollars, at the rate of four per cent. thereof;

4. For all above the last mentioned sum, at the rate of two per
cent. thereof.

In all cases such further compensation as is just and reasonable, may
be allowed by the court or judge thereof, for any extraordinary and

unusual services, not ordinarily required of an executor or administrator in the discharge of this trust.

Sec. 1149. Before the time appointed for the hearing and settlement of a final account, the executor or administrator shall file with
the clerk a copy of the notice thereof, with the proper proof of its
publication as directed. An executor or administrator who shall fail
to file his final account as provided in section 1141, may he proceeded
against in like manner, and with like effect as provided in section 1139,

in case of failure to file a semi-annual account.

SEC. 1150. VVhenever a debtor of a deceased person is unable to
pay all his debts, an executor or administrator, by order of the court
or judge thereof, may compound with him and give him a discharge
upon receiving a fair and just proportion of his effects; but if such
compounding is procured or induced by the fraudulent representations
or conduct of such debtor, such payment shall only operate to discharge
a like amount of the debt.

TITLE VIII.

Payment of claims and charges.

Sac. 1151. Order of payment of charges and 1158. Administrator liable to creditor personclaims. ally, when.
"1152. Proceeds of real property to be up 1159. Distribution and payment of legacies
plied in satisfaction of lien. when decreed.
1153. How judgment or decree may be sat- 1160. When real estate discharged from adminisfied, when given in life time of istratiou.
deceased. 1161. Application of heir or other person for
1154. If estate insnflicient payment to he share of estate.
in proportion. 1162. Notice, and proceedings thereon.
1155. Funeral charges, who may incur 1163. Qualifications of sureties in undertakthem, and when allowed. ing, and costs.
1156. Administrator may retain eompensa- 1164. Application for decree to refund.
tion and expenses. 1165. Proceedings thereon, and how decree en1157. Debts not due or contingent -how forced.
paid.

SEC. 1151. The charges and claims against the estate which have
been presented and allowed, or presented and disallowed, but subsequently established by judgment or decree, within the first six months
after the date of the notice of appointment of the executor or administrator, shall be paid in the following order, and those presented and

allowed or established in like manner within each succeeding period of
six months thereafter, during the continuance of the administration, in
the same manner:

1. Funeral charges;

2. Taxes of Whatever nature due the United States ;

3. Expenses of last sickness ;

4. Taxes of Whatever nature due the state, or any county or other
public corporation therein;

5. Debts preferred by the laws of the United States;

6. Debts which, at the death of the deceased, were a lien upon
his real property or any right or interest therein according to the priority of their several liens;

7. All other claims against the estate.

SEC. 1152. The preference given by subdivision 6 of the last section, shall only extend to the proceeds of the property upon which the
lien exists, and as to such proceeds such debt is to be preferred to any
of the classes mentioned in such section, other than the taxes upon
such property.

Sim. 1153. If such debt has been established by judgment or
decree against the deceased in his life time, such judgment or decree,
if the proceeds of the personal property be not sufficient to satisfy it,
may, in the discretion of the court or judge thereof, be either satisiied
from the proceeds of the sale of the property, by the executor or
administrator, upon which it is a lien, or enforced by execution against
such property. Such sale by the executor or administrator discharges
the property from the lieu of the judgment or decree, but the same
attaches to the proceeds thereof, after deducting therefrom the expenses
of sale.

SEC. 1154. Except as specially provided in the last three sections,
if the estate be insufficient to pay all the claims and charges of any
one class, payable Within any period of six months during the administration as provided in section 1151, each creditor of such class shall
be paid in proportion to the amount of his claim, and not otherwise.

SEC. 1155. The executor named in the will, or if there be none or

- if he do not attend to it, then the husband, Widow, or next of kin, in

the order herein named, are authorized to incur funeral charges on
account of the estate in the burial of the deceased, before administration of the estate is granted; and the burial of the deceased may be
in a manner and at a cost, according to his circumstances and condition

in life, but no funeral charges, except those necessary to give the

_deceased a plain and decent burial, shall be allowed out of the estate,

where the assets are not sufiicient to satisfy all other claims against it,
including legacies and devises, if there be any.

SEC.’ 1156. The executor or administrator may retain in his hands,
in preference to any claim or charge against the estate, the amount of
his own compensation and the necessary expenses of administration.

SEC. 1157. A debt, due and payable, is not entitled to preference
over one of the same class not due, if the latter be presented. within
the same period. A debt not due Whether contingent or absolute,
upon being presented, shall, if absolute be satisfied by the payment of
such sum as the court or judge thereof may prescribe by order to be
equal to its present value, and if contingent, by the payment into
court, for the benetit of the creditor subject to the contingency, of a.
sum, to be ascertained in like manner, equal to its present value.

8130. 1158. When upon the filing of a semi-annual account, an order
is made determining and prescribing the amount of assets applicable
to the claims then presented, as provided in section 1140, thereafter the

‘ executor or administrator is personally liable to each creditor included

in such order, for such amount.

SEC. 1159. If all the charges and claims shall have been satisfied
upon the first distribution of the assets, or as soon thereafter as they
may be, the court or judge thereof shall direct the payment of legacies and the distribution of the remaining proceeds of the personal
property among the heirs or other persons entitled thereto.

SEO. 1160. The real property of the deceased is the property of
those to whom it descends by law or is devised by Will, subject to the
possession of the executor or administrator, and to be applied to the
satisfaction of claims against the estate, as by this chapter provided;
but upon the settlement of the estate, and the termination of the
administration thereof’, so much of such real property as remains
unsold or unappropriated, is discharged from such possession and liability Without any order or decree therefore, but if there be any surplus
of the proceeds of the sale of such real property, or any part thereof,
the court or judge thereof shall order and direct a distribution of such
surplus among those who would have been entitled to such land if the
same had not been sold.

SEC. 1161. At any time after the filing of the first semi-annual

account, any heir, devisce or legatee, may apply to the court by petition, for an order that he have the possession and rents and profits
thereof of the portion of the real property to which he may be entitled,
and that payment be made to him of his legacy or distributive share
of the personal property of such estate, as the case may be.

8130. 116:2. Notice of the application shall be given to the executor
or administrator ten days before the term at which it is made. If
upon the hearing it appear that the estate is but little in debt, the
court in its discretion may grant the petition or some part thereof, upon
the condition that such applicant file with the clerk within a time in
the order specified, an undertaking with one or more sufficient sureties
for the benefit of whom it may concern, in a sum double the value of
such real property, legacy, or distributive share, to be void upon the
condition that such heir, legatee or devisee, will pay, when required,
his proportion towards satisfying any claim against the estate.

SEC. 1163. The sureties in such undertaking shall have the same
qualihcations as sureties in bail upon arrest, and shall justify before the
court or judge thereof in like manner. The costs of the proceeding
shall be paid by the applicant.

SEC. 1164. If after the giving of such undertaking it shall become
necessary to satisfy any claim against the estate to require the payment
of all or any part of the sum therein specified it shall be the duty of
the executor or administrator to apply by petition to the court for a
decree to that effect. Notice of the application shall be given to the
party filing the undertaking, ten days before the term at which the

application is made.

SEC. 1165.. If upon the hearing, it appear necessary and proper that
such payment should be made the court shall decree accordingly,
specifying therein the amount to be paid, and within what time ; and
if the amount be not paid within the time specified, the decree may be
enforced against such party and the sureties in the undertaking by
execution, in the same manner as a decree in the circuit court.


