

SEC. I. The court will call the cases for argument in the •order in which they list. If neither party stand on the be printed argument present or ready to proceed with the argument, the case shall be non-prossed, un- less reason to the contrary be shown to the satisfac- tion of the court. 

SEC. II. All cases brought or to be for review shall be placed upon ing their entry, upon the docket of the court. the brought up argument list next succeed- and in , the order in which — unless advanced by the special 

SEC. III. No cause shall be continued when reached without permission of the court. they stand order Recognizances and engrossed 

SEC. IV. of bail in error shall be on parchment form, or as near as may be : You severally acknowledge the action) the sum of or plainly drawn paper, in the following " county, to owe (the (double the sum recovered), upon the condition that A B prosecute error with effect ; and if judgment to wit : plaintifff in his writ of be affirmed, or the writ of error be discontinued or non-prossed, adjudged accruing upon the debt, damages damages and costs that of error." ' or costs such (as the case may to pay be) judgment, and all other may be awarded on such writ 

SEC. V. The plaintifff's counsel notice of the taking may, within twenty days of the bail in error, except to the sufficiency thereof, when the defendant must either put in new bail, or the old bail must justify within ten days after exception taken ; in default whereof, the prothonotary of this court shall non pros, such writ of error. after , 

SEC. VI. No person shall be admitted to practise as attorney in this court, unless he hath served a ship, within the State, to some or gentleman term of four years, regular clerk- practising attorney of the law, of known abilities, for the and afterwards shall have as an attorney in one of the pleas, practised county courts of common or district courts, for the term of one year, or served such clerkship three years, and practised two years : Provided always, That in the case of a person applying to be admitted who shall appear to have studied the law with assiduity, some practising attorney or under the direction of gentleman of the law of this State, for the term of two years after his arrival at the age of twenty-one years, and afterwards practised in some one of the county courts of common pleas for the term of two years, he may be admitted. 

SEC. VII. No person shall be admitted to practise as attorney in this court, upon the ground that he has been admitted to practise in the courts of some other State, unless he be a citizen of the United States, and also, unless it be shown that the attorneys of this court are entitled, by the practice of the court where the appli- cant has been admitted, to admission under the like circumstances. 

SEC. VIII. All agreements and notices of attorneys touching the business of the court shall be in they will be considered of no No attorney 

SEC. IX. validity. writing, otherwise of this or any other court, sheriff's officer, bailiff or other person concerned in the execution of process, error, except by special •obtained. shall become bail on appeal or in leave of the court previously In all the criminal cases 

SEC. X. courts by certiorari, wherein a been had, the to enter " prothonotary brought up from the lower special allocatur has not is instructed by this court writ quashed," and the records shall be re- turned to the courts from whence 

SEC. XI. they came. No such writ of certiorari shall issue at the instance of a defendant who is at the time out on bail, until he enters into a recognizance in the nature of to the satisfaction of the court or special bail, judge taking the same : conditioned for his appearance before the su- preme court in banc, from time to time, as the court may order, "until the final determination of the cause, and that he will not depart without the leave of the said court. In all cases 

SEC. XII. brought into this court by writ of error, the counsel for the plaintifff in error shall, on or before the third day able, specify assigns, of the term to which the writ is return- in writing the and file the same in the particular errors which he and on failure so to do, the court may writ. 

SEC. XIII. prothonotary's non In all cases of writs of error when the record is not returned on the return day, prothonotary office : pros, it shall be the duty of the to enter a non pros., taken off except by special The prothonotary which shall not be order of the court. 

SEC. XIV. shall endorse on each writ of error or certiorari to remove proceedings, a 

SEC. to appear and plead at the return fault of appearance day of the writ ; the and on de- when the cause is called for argu- ment, and on proof of ten days' service on the defendant in error or his counsel below, the court will proceed ex parte.. And it is further ordered, that the court proceedin like manner on notice in appeal cases. proof of the like service of 

SEC. XV. In all appeal cases, where the bring up the appellants neglect the record at the next term of this court after of the other parties interested appeal shall have been taken, any may bring it presented and determined ex missed at the costs of the In all cases where, in this court, a cause further proceedings, up, parte, appellant. 

SEC. XVI. pursuance and have the case or the of the appeal dis- judgment goes back to the court below for it shall be the duty of the prothonotary to certify and send back with the order, decree or judgment, a copy court which shall have been filed ; him therefore shall stand as of the part opinion of the and the fees of the costs in the cause. to of paid 

SEC. XVII. In a case where the writ of error is to a on a verdict, the shall contain the order: paper book of the plaintifff following — i. The names of all the judgment in error matters, in the following parties as they on the record of the court below at the time of the trial, and the form of the action. 2. An abstract of the proceedings, showing made. thereon. any, 3. the issue, and how it was The verdict of the jury, and the judgment 4. A history of the case. which were submitted in writing 5. stood The points, to the court below. 6. The charge of the court. tions of error. 8. A brief of the plaintifff in error. dence, and if Where the the nature of a by the parties, 9. 7. The specifica- argument for the An appendix, containing necessary, the pleading in full. 

SEC. XVIII. judgment below is on a case stated in special the verdict, the facts as opinion of the court, and the argument of counsel, will be sufficient. In appeals the 

SEC. XIX. arrangement of the appellant's paper book shall be as follows: — the evi- agreed on 1. The names of the if par- proceedings. 2. A short abstract of the bill or petition ties and the nature of the A history of the case. master, if there was one. 4. and answer. 3. The report of the auditor, or The exceptions taken to the report court on the signment 9. 5. in the court below. 6. The opinion of the exceptions, and the decree made. of error. 8. Argument on part Appendix containing evidence as may be 7. As- of appellant. such documentary or other necessary. 

SEC. XX. In a certiorari to the court of quarter oyer and terminer, the sessions or paper book shall contain: An abstract list or brief of all the orders, reports, exceptions, sary to give &c., which petitions, — u motions, may be neces- the court here a full view of the record at once ; and this in the precise order of their prefixed. 2. The exceptions dates, and with the date of each which were overruled or sustained by the, final order Or judgment the court, if it was filed in error. 5. of the court. The argument. the record in full. The history writing. 3. 4. respective The opinion of Assignments 6. Appendix, containing 

SEC. XXI. of the case must contain a closely con, densed statement of all the facts of which a knowledge may be necessary, in order to determine the points in of and the want of such a statement cannot be supplied by reference to another part •controversy here ; paper book. 

SEC. XXII. Each error relied on must be specified particularly, and by itself. If any specification embrace more than or refer to more than one bill of exceptions, or raise more than one distinct question, one point, considered a waiver of all the errors so 

SEC. XXIII. When the error assigned is to the of the it shall be alleged. of the court, or to answer to the points, the part charge of the charge or points and answers referred to must be quoted iotidem verbis in the specification. 

SEC. XXIV. When the error assigned is to the admission or rejection of evidence, the full substance of the bill of specification must quote the exceptions, or copy the bill in immediate connection with the specification. When the error is as to the admission or rejection of a writing, a full copy of the writing must be printed in the paper book. of error not according Any assignment to this and the last 

SEC. will be held the same as .none. The brief of the 

SEC. XXV. argument must contain a clear statement of the points on which the party relies, with such reasons and add, together arguments as he may see' with all the authorities which he thinks pertinent. When an authority to be proved by ' 

SEC. XXVI. is 'cited, the proper principle intended it must be stated. A naked reference to the book will. not be sufficient. 

SEC. XXVII. The paper book of the defendant in error or pellee may, argument, if he chooses, contain no more than his to which Rules XXV. and XXVI. will be held to apply. But he counter-statement, giving may make it to embrace a such version of the facts as he asserts to be the true one. In cases originating 

SEC. XXVIII. in the county of Philadelphia, the plaintifff in error, or appellant, of his paper book on the ney, at least ten days shall serve a opposite party, before the first day to which the writ of error or appeal to ap- copy or his attor- of the term is entered, and when the cause is called shall furnish one copy two for the reporter, of the delphia, judges, and file four with the prothonotary one for the Law Association of Phila- and one to be filed in his office. The defendant in error shall serve a copy on the opposite party or his attorney days to each — of his paper book before the argument, furnish a copy judge, and file four with the same purposes error or appellant. at least five to each prothonotary for the as the paper books of the plaintifff In all cases except of Philadelphia, serve a copy the of his 

SEC. XXIX. those plaintifff originating in the county in error or appellant shall paper book on the or his attorney, at least twelve days opposite party before the day appointed for hearing the cause was tried ; appellee shall serve a the cases from the county where and the defendant in error or copy opposite party or his attorney, of his paper book on the at least five days before the time appointed for hearing if the writ of error or appeal as aforesaid. But shall have been taken thirty days hearing or more before the day assigned as aforesaid, the error or appellant paper book of the shall be served at least twenty days, and that of the the days assigned opposite party at least five days, for the When the cause is called, each hearing in for the plaintifff in before of the said causes. party shall furnish a copy of his •copies paper book to each with the judge, and file four prothonotary, one of which is to remain with the records, and two to be delivered to the reporter, and one for the Law Association of Philadelphia. When the plaintifff 

SEC. XXX. in error or appellant is in default according be non-suited on motion ; to these rules, he may and when the defendant in. error or appellee in default, he will not be heard by the court, on the request of his adversary, and not then if his negligence has been gross. 

SEC. XXXI. When paper books are furnished which differ in any material respect from those here ties furnishing except prescribed, the par- them shall be considered in the same default as if none had been furnished, and on a proper occasion the court will, of its own motion, non-suit or silence the defaulting party, or suppress paper book. 

SEC. XXXII. Paper books shall be furnished in the shape of a common octavo pampfilet, on ordinary printing paper. the and size is 

SEC. XXXIII. 

SEC. XXII does not apply facts agreed such cases it is to cases of judgment on in the nature of a special verdict. In is erroneous, without more. But that 

SEC. has no other exception. enough to say ROAD CASES. 

SEC. XXXIV. that the judgment On the return of any certiorari for the removal of any order, judgment, or public or private proceedings in relation to a road, this court will not suffer the merits of the case to be entered into, nor reverse the order of the sessions, unless for somd» irregularity apparent on the record, or that the court below have exceeded their jurisdiction, or have erred in their judg- ment in point of law. The prothonotary 

SEC. XXXV. of each district shall keep separate list for short causes. 

SEC. XXXVI. To this list all causes shall be transferred in which the attorney of either party shall certify that it is a short cause. 

SEC. XXXVII. The causes on this list shall have precedence over all others on the Wednesday of every week in which the same causes on the might be heard, if a they had remained general list and had been reached in their order. 

SEC. XXXVIII. Where a cause has been certified to be a short cause by the attorney of one other party tice may list of short regular party, and the attorney of the will certify that it is not so, and that be done to his client by placing it on the list. causes, it shall be put back again injus- on the On the hearing 

SEC. XXXIX. of counsel shall be limited to fifteen minutes on each side. The hearing of short causes, the speeches 

SEC. XL. of short causes shall not be the exclusive business of Wednesdays. When they are disposed of, the days ; general list shall be called as on other but the short list shall be finished before any other business. It shall be the duty of the prothonotary to put up of the court room a copy in some conspicuous part of the short list, and this shall be notice No of the transfer of the causes which are on it. certify any cause back to the party shall be permitted to has been regular list after three days from the time it  placed on the short list. § 

SEC. I. Miscellaneous Rules. i. *The equity side of the supreme court, dis- trict courts and courts of common pleas, shall be .-deemed always open for the answers and other pleadings, ing mesne and final process and making and directing purpose of for issuing filing bills, and return- commissions, and for all interlocutory motions, orders, rules and other proceedings, preparatory to the hear- ing of causes the § upon their merits. 2. The prothonotary's office shall be open, prothonotary shall be in attendance therein daily, •during office hours, for the purpose of receiving, entering, entertaining and disposing rules, orders and other proceedings, and of all motions, which are grantable of course, and applied for or had or their solicitors, in all causes pursuance pending of the rules hereby prescribed. by the parties in equity, in in the supreme § 3- nisi *In all cases in equity instituted court when sitting in the eastern district, the prius judge, unless otherwise ordered by on cause shown, shall take cognizance, the court and shall hear and decide the same, and make all necessary decrees as fully do, as the supreme court in banc might subject to revision according of the act of 26th July, 1842. or could to the ninth section The nisi prius shall be open § 4. for equity When any cases on all juridical days. within the meaning case in equity, of the first section of the act of 8th April, 1852,comes into the supreme court in banc for revision, it shall be certified from district to district until deter- mined, as required by the act aforesaid. All such cases, instituted in other districts than the eastern dis- trict, shall be disposed of by the supreme court in banc, without a preliminary reference to the judge at nisi prius, from district to district, as the said act requires. § 5. and shall be certified for that purpose 

SEC. II. Process and Appearance. No suit shall be deemed pending until the bill be actually filed in the prothonotary's office. Every bill shall be printed, except in the cases specially provided for in these rules ; endorse thereon the time of and the filing prothonotary shall the same. § 6. Unless otherwise provided by fendant or. defendants shall be instance, to appear- required, and answer the law, the de- in the first of the bill, of a by the service' exigency upon each defendant therein printed copy thereof, on which shall be endorsed a notice in the defendant, (here following form : " named, To the within-named the name of the defendant, upon whom service is to be made, must be inserted.) are hereby notified and required, within fourteen days after service hereof on you, exclusive of to be entered for you such service, to cause an in the appearance supreme court of Pennsylvania, the eastern district, within bill of complaint (or as the case may be,) of the within-named insert the name of complainant,) the said court shall insert the place direct. You the day of in and for to the (here and to observe what Witness my hand at (here where the court is held, the date of of business of plaintifff's solicitor. notice, and name and " Note. — tions by not If you fail to entering place an comply with the above direc- appearance in the prothonotary's office, within fourteen days, you have the bill taken pro confesso, against you § 7. in your absence." will be liable to and a decree made Guardians ad litem to defend a suit may be appointed by the court, or by any judge petition, for infants or other persons, thereof, on who are under guardianship, or otherwise incapable selves ; sue by all infants arid other persons their guardians, if any, or by to sue for them- so incapable may ami, subject, their prochein however,, to such orders as the court may direct, as to security or otherwise, for the of such infants and other' persons. § 8. Service upon him a printed copy protection a defendant shall be by giving of the bill, with a notice endorsed thereon in the form prescribed in these rules, or by leaving such copy and notice at his dwelling with an adult member of his family or the family which he resides. The court, or a law judge thereof, may direct how service shall be. made in § 9. house, special cases. In cases where husband and wife are defend- ants, service of a copy of the bill and notice to appear shall be made on each of them. Service on non-resi- dent defendants shall be made in the mode prescribed by the acts of assembly relating thereto. § 10. Service of the bill and notice to appear, on a corporation, shall be effected in the mode prescribed by law for the service of a writ of summons upon such corporation. Where the commonwealth is a necessary party, service shall be made in the manner prescribed by the act of 6th April, 1844. § 11. Whenever the court shall make an order under the provisions of the act of 6th April, 1859, in f° r a service upon a non-resident defendant, without the commonwealth, such service shall be by delivery him of a these rules, copy of the bill, such as is provided for in of the order authorizing together with a copy such service ; and in such case the form of subpoena shall be similar, in substance, to the notice to appear prescribed by these rules, but so varied as to require the defendant to cause an appearance to be •entered for him, on or before the time fixed in such special order. § 12. Whenever the court shall direct service by publication, under the April. 1859, a copy provisions of the act of 6th of such order, together •statement of the substance and object tion, or other proceeding, shall be published to with a of the bill, peti- •one or more newspapers, and at such times as the, court shall by special order direct, to the probable in such having regard residence of the defendant, and affidavit filed stating •complainant all the knowledge or information of the in reference to such defendant's place § 13. or deponent, of residence. Upon filing the suit upon the bill the his docket as prothonotary in the court, and shall state the time of entry ; pending and upon the affidavit of the due service of notice to appear upon the defendant or defendants, shall enter the same upon the docket. The appearance shall enter filing of an of the defendant, either personally or by solicitor, shall be by endorsed by the prothonotary, a paper filed and with the time of filing of the equity the same, and shall be noted on the margin docket. If the defendant shall not cause an ap- pearance to be entered for him within the time limited for that purpose, the plaintifff may, at his election, enter an order as of course in the cause, that the bill be taken p7'o confesso, hereafter provided by § 14. All. or proceed by attachment as is. Section 

SEC. III. 29. Pleadings generally. bills, interrogatories, demurrers, pleas, answers to bills, and to interrogatories, and amend- ments of pleadings, where such amendments exceed one hundred consecutive words, shall be printed on white sized paper shall be printed of a convenient size. Amendments on one side only of the paper. Each party appearing by separate to ten copies of all such pleadings. counsel shall be entitled The amount paid for printing shall be allowed as costs of the cause. This 

SEC. shall not apply where counsel shall certify that his client, by reason of poverty, is unable to pay for the same. In which case, instead of ten written copy copies, each party shall be entitled to one fairly of all pleadings, interrogatories, case any other party may print allowed for the expense printed &c, and in such such papers, and be at the termination of the cause, or when the court shall see fit to order the payment by the other party. The prothonotary shall not permit any such unprinted pleadings to be filed, saving with such a certificate, and saving tion where counsel shall certify also bills for injunc- that there has not been time to print, the same. And such injunction bills shall be withdrawn and deemed finally dismissed as of course, unless within twenty days printed copies are filed and served. § 15. 

SEC. IV. Structure Every bill shall be of Bill. after filing in as brief and succinct terms as it reasonably can be, and shall con- tain no expressed unnecessary recitals of deeds, documents, con- tracts, or other instruments, in hcec verba, or any other matter, or any scandalous matter not relevant to the suit. If it do, it impertinent tions, be referred to a master by any judge the same, may, on excep- of the court for impertinence or scandal, and if so found by him, the matter shall be expunged plaintifff, and he shall pay at the expense to the defendant all his costs in the suit to that time, unless the court or a law judge up thereof shall otherwise order. If the master shall report that the bill is not scandalous or nent, the defendant shall be entitled to all costs occa- sioned by the reference, or the court or any thereof may decide thereon without a reference, unless the case shall require it. of the imperti- law judge § 1 6. Every bill, in the introductory part thereof, shall contain the names of all the parties, plaintifffs, and •defendants, by and against whom the bill is brought. The form in substance shall be as follows : In the .(style Between A B, plaintifff, and C D, defendant. To the Honorable the of court.) Sitting in equity. Judges of the said court. Your orator says, &c. § 17. complains and The bill shall be divided into paragraphs con- secutively numbered, and shall contain a succinct statement of the facts relief, and, at his option, upon which the plaintifff asks the facts which are intended to avoid an anticipated as may be necessary ing to entitle the defense, and such averments under the rules of equity plead- plaintifff to relief, and the relief and for special orders, writs, or process, shall also be so divided and numbered. The combination clause, the interrogatories, and the prayer for which allegation want of remedy at law and similar formal averments, shall be omitted. § 

SEC. V. Parties. 18. Where no account, payment, conveyance, other direct relief is to a suit not being sought against an infant, the notice upon him, need not appear a party party upon service of the and answer the bill, of or unless the the plaintifff especially requires him so to do, prayer of his bill ; but he may appear and answer at his option ; and if he does not appear and answer, he shall be bound If the by all the plaintifff shall require him to proceedings he shall be entitled to the costs of all the in the cause. appear and answer, proceedings against § 19. him, unless the court shall otherwise direct. Where infants or persons not sui juris, are parties, the fact shall be specially stated in the bill, so that the court before or after the service of process may take order thereon as § 20. Where persons proper or necessary parties, justice may require. without the jurisdiction are this fact shall be stated in the bill, and they may they come within the a special be brought jurisdiction in by service when of the court, or under order as provided by the acts of assembly. § 21. In all cases where it shall to the court that persons who might sary or proper parties parties by reason of their appear otherwise be deemed neces- to the suit, cannot be made being out of the of the court, incapable otherwise of ties, or because their joinder of the court as to the .court may, in their discretion, without making cases the. rights jurisdiction being made par- would oust the jurisdiction parties before the court, the proceed in the cause such persons parties; and in such decree shall be without prejudice of the absent parties.. by to the § 22. Where the parties on either side are very- numerous, and cannot without manifest inconvenience and it, oppressive delays in the suit be all brought the court in its discretion may dispense with making in the suit, having all of them parties, and may proceed to sufficient parties before it verse interest of the plaintifffs before represent all the ad- and .the defendants in the suit properly before it. But in such cases the decree shall be without prejudice claims of all the absent parties. § 23. In all suits concerning to the rights and real estate, which is vested in trustees, and such trustees are sell and give discharges for the and for the rents and profits tees shall represent the in the estate or the proceeds, proceeds competent of the sale, of the estate, such trus- persons beneficially interested or the rents and profits, in the sam'e manner and to the same extent as the executors or administrators in suits estate represent such personal concerning personal the persons beneficially interested in shall not be and in such cases it estate ; necessary to make the persons beneficially interested in such real estate or rents and profits parties to the suit, but the court may, upon consideration of the matter on the hearing, shall so think fit, order such it if sons to be made parties. § 24. In suits to execute the trusts of a not be necessary to make the heir-at-law a to per- will, it shall but party ;  the a plaintifff shall be at liberty to make the heirs-at-law party, where he desires to have the will established against them. § 25. In all cases where the joint and several demand plaintifff has a against several persons, either as principals or sureties, it shall not be necessary to bring before the court, as parties to a suit concerning such demand, all the persons liable thereto ; tiff may proceed against but the one or more of the persons severally liable. But the defendant may at once pro- ceed by a bill in the nature of a cross-bill, against such party ~be as is liable jointly with him, and such permitted cause, and the original to make himself a defend, the same, and the party to the plain- party shall original proceedings in cause shall, after the service of such crossbill, be conclusive as to such other shall appear made a party, and if he thereto, be conducted as if he had been party thereto in the first instance. § 26. If a defendant shall, at the hearing object that a suit is defective for want of parties not and therein specified by having by plea or answer taken the name or description the whom the objection applies, fit, shall be at liberty rights § 27. suggest of the absent parties. of a case, objection, parties the court, if it shall think to make a decree, saving Where the defendant shall, by his answer, that the bill is defective for want of parties, to the the plaintifff shall be at liberty, within fourteen days after answer filed, to set down the cause for argument upon that objection only ; and the purpose for which the same is so set down shall be notified by an entry, to be made in the effect following, defendant's objection the equity docket, in the form or to the that is to say : " Set down upon for want of parties." the And where plaintifff shall not set down his cause, but shall pro- ceed therewith to a hearing, notwithstanding tion for want of parties taken by the answer, he shall not, at the hearing of the cause, an objec- if the defendant's objec- tion shall then be allowed, be entitled as of course to an order for liberty to amend his bill by adding parties. But the court, if it think fit, shall be at liberty to dis- miss the bill. § 28. The parties to a suit decree, by agreement in may at any time before writing, without special mo- tion, consent that the bill be dismissed, with or without costs, as may be stipulated ; and upon payment of the costs due to the officers of the court, such shall be entered agreement upon the docket, and the suit shall be thereupon fully ended and discontinued. 

SEC. VI. Pleas, Demurrers, and Decrees Pro Confesso. § 29. The plaintifff shall be entitled immediately after the defendant's appearance is entered, to a 

SEC. on defendant to be entered of course in the prothono- tary's office, to file his plea, demurrer, or answer to the bill within thirty days after service of notice of such in default of compliance therewith the plaintifff may at his election enter an order as of course in the cause, that the bill be taken 

SEC. ; pro confesso. such case, and also where the bill is taken pro for want of an appearance, the cause shall be proceeded in ex parte, next equity argument and the case may be And in confesso- put upon list, and the matter of the bill may be decreed by the court when there reached in its order, if the same can be done without an answer, upon the allegations in the bill, which without further proof shall be taken as admitted ; or the plaintifff, requires any discovery or answer to enable him to ob- tain a proper decree, shall be entitled to process of attachment against the defendant to compel and the defendant shall not, when arrested upon such process, be discharged therefrom unless his answer or otherwise complying the court or a law ing judge to or fully answering fixed by the cause ; the court or judge, thereof may the if he an answer, upon filing with such order direct as to the bill within a and undertaking or it shall be in the option period of the plaintifff, when suctf 

SEC. to answer or demur shall have been served as aforesaid and not complied plead, default of appearance by limited as. plead- to be to speed with, or on the defendant within the time therefore, instead of taking to have process of contempt the bill pro confesso, to compel an answer. and the court shall have proceeded § 30. When the bill is taken pro confesso, to a decree as aforesaid,, such decree so rendered shall be deemed absolute,, shall, within fourteen days unless the court or a law judge thereof after the service of notice of such decree on the defendant, set aside the same and give the defendant time for filing And no such motion shall be an answer upon granted, cause shown. -unless the defendant shall undertake to file his answer within such time as the court shall direct, and submit to such other of speeding terms as the court shall direct for the the cause. §31. The defendant may, purpose at any time before the bill is taken for confessed, or afterwards with the leave of the court, demur or plead to the whole bill or to and he may demur to part, plead to part,, part of it, every case in but in and answer as to the residue ; which the bill specially charges a plea to such part must be fraud or combination, accompanied with an answer fortifying the plea, and explicitly denying fraud and combination and the facts on which the founded. charge is § 32. No demurrer or plea shall be allowed to be filed to any bill, unless not interposed for is supported by affidavit that it is plea, that it a and if delay ; the true in  point of fact. Demurrers shall be form following : ■■ substantially in the The defendant demurs to the whole bill," stating " or to so much of the bill, or discovery the particulars and the reasons or grounds § 33. plea to be in detail. assigning or relief," The plaintifff may set down the demurrer or argued, or he may take issue on the plea. If, upon an issue, the facts stated in the plea be determined for the defendant, in they shall avail him as far as law and equity they oughfto avail him. § 34. the plaintifff shall not reply to any plea, or If set down any plea or demurrer for ten days set it § 35. argument within after service of the same, the defendant may down for argument on five days notice. No demurrer or plea shall be held bad and overruled or plea upon argument, only because such demurrer might by shall not cover so much of the bill as it law have extended to, or because the answer of the defendant may extend to some matter as may be covered by § 36. upon If, part of the same such demurrer or the hearing, any demurrer or plea shall be allowed, the court may, in its discretion, upon motion of the plaintifff, allow him to amend his bill upon § 37. such terms as it shall deem reasonable, upon the hearing, any demurrer or plea is If, overruled, unless the court shall be satisfied that it  was intended for vexation and shall be assigned delay, the to answer the bill, or so much plea. defendant thereof as is covered by the plea or demurrer, at such of the defendant, the same can, in the as, consistently with justice be reasonably done ; be taken against and the rights judgment period of the court, in default whereof the bill shall and the matter thereof proceeded in and decreed him, pro confesso, and such decree shall also be made when the court deems the accordingly ; plea or demurrer to have been for vexation and delay, and to have been frivolous or unfounded. § 38. 

SEC. VII. Answers and Cross -bills. The defendant shall make answer to all the of the bill. The answer of a defendant must be in the first person, material allegations paragraphs, numbered consecutively, and divided into each paragraph containing, as nearly as may be, a separ^co end dis- tinct allegation. The rule, that if th*; defend.iut sub- mits to answer, he shall answer fully to ail the matters of the bill, shall no longer apply might, by plea or demurrer, answer and discovery. entitled in all cases, in cases where he protect himself from such And the defendant shall be by answer, to insist upon all matters of defense in law, (not being ment, or to the character of the parties, of matters of abate- or of matters form,) to the merits of the bill, of which he may be entitled to avail himself by a demurrer or plea in bar ; and in such answer he shall not be swer any other matters than he would be answer and discover, upon filing bar and an answer in support compellable to an- compellable a demurrer or plea in of such plea, touching matters set forth in the bill to avoid or repel or defense. — Thus, for example, to the the bar, a bona fide purchaser, for a valuable consideration, without notice, may up the defense by way of answer, instead of shall be entitled to the same be compellable covery support § 39. set plea, and protection, and shall not to make any further answer or dis- of his title than he would be in of such plea. Specific interrogatories any answer in to defendants shall not be included in the bill, but may be filed In like manner, any defendant shall.be entitled to file interrogatories have put to any of the plaintifffs separately. after he shall in his own answer to the bill. In either case, they may be filed at any time before the and shall be deemed, with the answers, testimony is begun, part of the pleadings. By special order on notice, they may be filed after testimony has been taken, and answers required at such time as the court or a law judge may conveniently as may taking order. They shall be divided as be, and' numbered. Where there is more than one defendant or plaintifff, the particular interrogatories to answer shall be specified by a note at the foot of the which each, is required copy shall be served on each party required paper. to answer of A them, or his counsel, and an order of course, to answer within ten days after such service, and on answer any interrogatory answer within that time, the the case may and serve a neglect copy to of such plaintifff or defendant, as be, shall be entitled to move for an attachment to § 40. compel an answer. A plaintifff or defendant shall be at liberty to decline part of an interrogatory, when he answering any interrogatory, or demurrer from might answering have protected himself by the subject-matter interrogatory ; and he shall be at liberty so to decline, he shall answer other interrogatories, self by may, on notwithstanding ter for a from which he demurrer, and the might have of the protected him- plaintifff or defendant forty-eight hours notice, set down the mat- hearing before court, as on an sufficiency. any law judge of the exception to the answer for in- But where the interrogatories are not fully answered, and no assigned for the omission, the particular objection must be pointed out reason is by exception, to be filed and served at least ten days before the hearing defendant shall be at interrogatories of such exception. The plaintifff or liberty, before answers to the are filed, or pending exceptions, to file or require a replication, and proceed to take testimony without waiver of his exceptions to the answers. right to such answers, or of his § 4i- Cross-bills for discovery only shall not be al- lowed, but the defendant shall be at liberty instead thereof, to file interrogatories to the plaintifff provided. In other cross-bills no further reference shall be made to the matters contained in'the bill than shall be necessary, treated as if but the same as above indprporated therein. The rules regulat- ing the form of Dills shall apply to cross-bills. If no new parties are introduced, service of a of the •cross-bill on the counsel of the plaintifff in the copy bill shall be sufficient. Where other persons are made parties, the service shall be in the manner provided original bills, a copy of such original bill together with the cross-bill, and such new original may be original being served parties shall be entitled to have bill as § 42. copies of the answer to the required for the plaintifff. Answers and affidavits may be sworn to before any person authorized to administer oaths under the laws or of this commonwealth, or of any other state, § 43. usages territory, or country, where the oath is taken. 

SEC. VIII. Exceptions to Answers. After answers are filed to plaintifff shall be allowed twenty days of a copy interrogatories, of such answers on the plaintifff's in original from the service counsel, to ifile in the prothonotary's office exceptions the thereto, and no the longer, unless a purpose, upon longer time shall be allowed for cause shown to the court or a law judge thereof; and if no thereto within that period, and taken to be sufficient. $ 44. Where an exception exceptions shall be filed the answer shall be deemed ■ shall be filed to the answer to within the period prescribed by any interrogatory for insufficiency, these rules, if the defendant shall not submit to the same, and file an amended answer within ten days from service of a tion on the defendant's counsel, the plaintifff with order the for a hearing prothonotary on the next day such causes, before a law judge copy of such excep- shall forth- to set the matter down* thereafter appointed of the court, and shall give notice of such order to the opposite party or his solicitor. And if he shall not so set the same down for a hearing, the exception shall be deemed aban- doned, and the answer shall be deemed sufficient; provided, thereof may, however, that the court or any law for good the time for filing an cause shown, exception or for filing enlarge an amended answer in their or his discretion, they or he may for judge upon such terms as deem reasonable. Exceptions shall be printed, and the expense of sustained shall be allowed as costs, to be printing such as are immediately recovered. § 45. If, at the hearing, any exception shall be al- full lowed, the defendant shall be bound to put in a  and complete answer to the particular interrogatory,, within ten order of the court, otherwise the days, unless the time be enlarged by plaintifff shall as of course be entitled to take the bill, so far as the matter of such exceptions is concerned, as confessed, or, at his election, he may have a writ of attachment to compel the defendant to make a better answer to the matter of and the defendant, when he is in custody upon such writ, shall not be the by exception ; discharged therefrom but an order of the court or of a law upon his putting in such answer and . such other terms as the court or judge may § 46. judge, thereof,, complying with No order shall be made by any judge ferring any or bill, answer, or pleading, proceeding depending direct. for re- or other matter,, before the court for scandal or impertinence, unless exceptions ing, and signed by passages impertinent ; counsel, are taken in writ- describing the particular which are considered to be scandalous or shall be filed within ten nor unless the exceptions days after service of the same upon the party excepting or his counsel, and such may be set down for hearing' by either party fortyeight hours notice, or such other notice as the court may direct to the opposite party. exceptions on § 47. 

SEC. IX. Replications. < Whenever the answer of the defendant shall not be excepted sufficient, the plaintifff to, or shall be shall file the adjudged or deemed general replication thereto within ten thereafter, unless he shall set the cause down on bill and answer ; days where the general replication and in all cases is filed, the cause shall at issue, without any rejoinder be deemed to all intents and purposes the plaintifff shall or other pleading on either side. If omit or refuse to file such replication within the prescribed period, entitled to a 

SEC. upon after notice of such 

SEC. ; him to the defendant shall be reply within ten days on failure to file such repli- cation with notice to the defendant's counsel, the plaintifff shall be deemed to have abandoned his to traverse the matters replication alleged right in the answer. The shall be in substance thus : " The plaintifff joins issue on the matters § 48. alleged No special replication to any in the answer." answer shall be filed. But if any matter in the answer shall make it necessary he alleged for the plaintifff may have leave to amend the same the court or a law judge to amend his bill, upon motion to thereof in vacation. § 49. v 

SEC. X. Amendments, Supplemental The plaintifff shall be at Bills, &c. liberty, as a matter of •course, to amend his bill in any matters whatsoever, before answer, plea, shall, without or demurrer to the bill," but he delay, give amendment, and all rules taken the defendant notice of such by the in the case shall be § 50. suspended until such notice is After an answer, or plea, plaintifff given. or demurrer is in, and before replication, the plaintifff may, upon mo- tion or petition, without notice, obtain an order from law judge of the court to amend his bill within twenty days thereafter. But after the -any the plaintifff shall not be permitted put" replication filed to withdraw it and to amend his bill, of the court, except upon upon motion or an order of a law judge after due notice to the other party, petition, and upon proof by affidavit that the same is not made for the of vexation or delay, or that the matter of the purpose proposed amendment is material, and could not with reasonable diligence have been sooner introduced into the bill, and upon the plaintifff's submitting be imposed by the § 51. judge If the plaintifff, to such other terms as may for speeding so the cause. obtaining any order to amend his bill after answer, or plea, or demurrer, or after replication, shall not file his amendments or in the prothonotary's amended bill, as the case may require, on the counsel of all other parties office, and serve a copy counsel within the time to the cause, who appear by appointed for making such amend- ments, he shall be considered to have abandoned the same, and the cause shall as if no application for any § 52. proceed amendment had been made. case where, after answer filed, an amendment of the bill is made in such particulars In every as to vary the case or the ants shall be at liberty grounds of relief, the defend- to demur or plead to the amended bill or to the amendments, as if no answershad been filed, and the answer to the not, unless the defendant fails to original bill shall in another answer when required, of the facts therein stated, be used put except as an admission subject to explanation by the answer subsequently filed. Answers to amend- ments may be required at such, times as the court or a law judge upon notice shall direct, and shall be in other answers, to the § 53. respects subject original bill. to the rules regulating After an answer is put in, it as of course, in any matter of form, or may be by filling up a blank, or correcting amended a date, or reference to a docu- ment, or other small matter, and be re-sworn, at any time before down for a replication is put in, or the cause is set hearing upon bill and answer. But after replication or such not be amended in any setting down for a hearing, it shall material matters, as by adding new facts or defenses, or qualifying original statements, except by special court or a law judge thereof, or altering the leave of the upon motion and cause shown after due notice to the adverse party, supported, if required, by affidavit. And in every case where leave is so the same be granted, may, the court or the in his discretion, require judge granting that the same separately engrossed and added as a distinct amend- ment to the original answer, so as to be distinguishable therefrom. § 54. require Whenever the circumstances are such as to a bill of revivor, supplemental bill, or bill in the nature of either or both, or where additional or different parties are required to be joined, shall be made by way of amendment or addition to of such amendments or additions the original bill, and copies being served on the parties to the original bill, or their counsel, on the record, shall entitle the plaintifff to proceed Where a new party as on an is joined, original a the same bill, after service. copy of the original bill and the 1 amendment shall* be served as is provided for in the case of original sonal representative bills* But, where the per- of a deceased party is properly required to be joined, it may be done by stating the record the fact of the death,, and the letters to such representative, and by grant service of notice on of of such statement on such representative; and the as if such representative cause, without more delay, him ten days § 55. shall proceed had been originally to appear. 

SEC. XI. Evidence. a party, allowing An order to take the testimony of ancient, in- firm and going man or justice or other person witnesses de bene esse before any of the peace of the respective therein, authorized by law to take depositions in other cases, may be entered either party in the prothonotary's by alder- count} office of course, at any time after the service of process stipulating able notice to the adverse commission to any place vania, more than seat of the forty party a reason- : so of an order for a within the State of Pennsyl- miles distant from the respective county, territory, or to mission, the foreign parts. county or to any other state or But in case of a com- interrogatories must be filed in the pro- thonotary's office at the time, and written notice of this last order and of the names of the commissioners must be served on the adverse party fifteen; days file at least before the commission issues, in order that he cross-interrogatories, or nominate commissioners on his part, depositions if he shall deem it taken before eligible magistrates may : Provided, That in the method prescribed by this rule, shall only be allowed to be ,. read in evidence on the of the cause, in case the same facts shall hearing appear before the examiner ap- pointed to take testimony in the cause after it is at issue, and be certified by him to excuse the tion of such witnesses before him as are necessary the introduction of produc- depositions taken de bene esse on trials by jury in the same courts, or if taken by commissioner before the cause is at issue, under this rule, it shall appear by affidavit at the witnesses so examined were of the country, or that ness to a material fact. § 56. Upon any hearing that the aged, infirm, or of them was a the return of the commission executed,, the same may, at the opened by any one of, application of either of the court, in term time or vacation, or by prothonotary shall give the judges the prothonotary ; -notice to the turn of any commission, and of the for the going out single wit- party, be and the parties of the re- of depositions taken before any alderman, aminer, and the service of such notice justice filing of the peace, parties shall, within ten days after respectively, enter exceptions in writing, upon them if they have or ex- any, to the form of the interrogatories or the manner of the execution of the commission, and the taking of the depositions, be forever precluded from the benefit of such exceptions, which exceptions when so taken may be put down for either party giving forty-eight hours notice to his adversary thereof, or such other hearing by notice as the court may direct. or § 57- mony The last of the interrogatories to take testi- shall be stated in substance, thus: "Do you know, or can you set forth any other matter or which may be a benefit or at issue in this cause, or either of them, or that may be material to the subject the matters in question the same fully and at § 58. advantage to the thing, parties of this your examination, or in this cause ? If yea, set forth large in your On all interlocutory applications, answer." as for an injunction, or the appointment shall be at liberty to produce of a receiver, either party his witnesses for examination in of the application, as to all such matters as could be open court at the hearing their affidavits, subject proved by to cross-examination as in other cases, or, upon to produce reasonable notice, to require the other party his witnesses for examination in open unless sufficient cause be shown to the contrary. § 59. The method of taking testimony, except in cases provided for in the foregoing court, l rules, shall be as follows : After the cause is at issue, the court shall point may an examiner at the first make request of either party application, which examiner shall cause such witnesses as either party may name to him to come before him on a reasonable day appqinted by him, of which he shall ap- who or days, to be* give notice to the parties ; for the enforcing witnesses, either party the attendance of which or subpoenas, returnable before such examiner, to be en- forced by the usual may have process of nation shall be conducted subpoena contempt. by the counsel of the The exami- parties viva voce, and the answers of the witnesses shall be re- duced to also, if or if it be writing by the examiner, and the necessary to the understanding questions of the answer required by either party. The testimony both parties shall be taken before the same examiner, and the defendant shall not be compelled to proceed with the taking of his testimony, until the plaintifff has finished, or declared he has none to take, nor shall the plaintifff be compelled to proceed with the rebutting testimony until the defendant has completed the testimony on his part ; application of either but the court may, upon the special party, upon cause shown, appoint an additional examiner before whom the party making such application may proceed to take his testimony, notwithstanding the pendency of the his adversary before the examiner first named. proceeding § 60. Whenever under these rules an oath is or if conscientiously scrupulous may be required to be taken, the of taking party may, an oath, in lieu thereof make solemn affirmation to the truth of the facts stated by him. All affidavits and taken and expressed ponent ; depositions in the first person and shall be divided into paragraphs, shall be of the de- of of and be, confined to a distinct portion each paragraph, as nearly of the § 61. Either party may on his adversary as may subject. to close the enter a 

SEC. as of course of his testimony within thirty days taking after notice of such 

SEC. ; any testimony taken after thirty days notice of such 

SEC. shall not b.e read in evidence at the hearing of the cause. But it shall be in the discretion of the court to enlarge the time on the application of the party against whom such order may have been obtained, upon and no such 

SEC. shall be entered against a party cause being shown ; section, such party versary has closed. while, by the provisions sufficient of the 59th is not bound to begin until his ad- 

SEC. XII. Masters. § 62. The courts may appoint standing chancery may also in their appoint masters in respective jurisdictions, and they a master pro hac vice, in any par- ticular case. The compensation to be allowed to every master in chancery for his services in cause, shall be fixed by any particular the court in its discretion, having regard the to all the circumstances thereof; and compensation shall be such of the parties charged upon and borne by in the cause, as the court shall direct. The master shall not retain his report as se- curity for his tion is allowed compensation ; but when the compensa- by the court, he shall be entitled to an attachment for the amount against ordered to pay the same, if, the party who is upon notice thereof, he does not within the time prescribed by the court. pay it § 63. Whenever any reference of any matter is made to a master to examine and report thereon, the party at whose instance, or for whose benefit the refer- ence is made, shall cause the same to be presented to the master for a hearing within ten if when the reference was made ; so, the adverse party shall be at days after the day he shall omit to do liberty forthwith to cause to be had before the master, at the costs of the party procuring § 64. proceedings Upon every the reference. such reference it shall be the duty of the master, as soon as he reasonably can after brought before him, 1;o assign atime and place for the same is proceedings in the same, and to due notice thereof to each of the give parties or their solicitors ; either party shall fail to appear at the time and place appointed, and if ceed ex parte, the master shall be at or in his discretion to liberty to pro- adjourn the examination and proceedings future day,, giving notice to the absent to a party or his solicitor of such adjournment ;  and it shall be the duty all reasonable diligence of the master to in proceed with every such reference, and with the least practicable delay ; be at liberty to apply and either party shall to the court or a law judge thereof, for an order to the master to speed ceedings, court or in § 65. and to make his report, and to certify judge the reasons for any delay. The master shall the pro- regulate all the proceedings every hearing before him, upon every ence ; parties and he shall have full authority in the cause, upon contained in the reference ; to the such refer- to examine the oath, touching all matters and also to require production of all books, papers, writings, vouchers, and other documents applicable thereto ; where, by the principles them may of courts of chancery, the be compelled, production and also to examine on oath viva voce, all witnesses produced by the the parties before him, and to order the examination of other witnesses to be taken, under a commission to be issued upon his certificate by the mode, shall be the prothonotary ; and also to direct in which the matters requiring to do all other acts, and direct all other proved before him ; and generally inquiries and proceedings in the matters before him which he may deem necessary and the § bring and proper to the rights of the parties. of evidence justice and merits thereof, 66. All parties accounting before a master shall in their respective accounts in the form of debtor and creditor, and any of the other parties who shall not be satisfied with the account so be at liberty to examine the brought in, shall accounting party, viva voce, or upon interrogatories before the master, or by position, as the master shall direct. § 67. The master shall be at liberty to examine any creditor or other person coming either upon written in to claim before him, interrogatories or viva voce, or in both modes, as the nature of the case may appear to him to require. The evidence upon such examination shall be taken down by the master, or by some other person by his order and in his presence, in order that the same may requires it, necessary. court, if § 68. All affidavits, which have been if either party be used by depositions, and documents made, read, or used in the court, previously upon any proceeding may be used before the master. § 69. in any cause or matter, No exception will be received.to the report of any master, unless the party excepting has filed the same with the master, whom the report has been made, whose duty it filed, to re-examine the by shall be, on such exception being subject and amend his report de- the > in his opinion such exceptions are in whole or in if part well founded. And in order to give all parties in  interest an opportunity of entering master shall file his report until ten days such exception, after he has no notified to the parties designated, and giving his intention so to do on a day them an access to such report. On the hearing of the confirming or setting opportunity of having of the question aside the master's report, party excepting thereto shall be confined to the exception made by him before the master, according to the previous requisition of this 

SEC. ; reserving to the court, however, the power of committing the report again, should justice require it. On the return ofthe master's final report, or at such time as established by the rules of the particular court, either party may set down the cause for on the next equity argument shall intervene ; list, hearing may be provided that at least four days but if no exceptions be filed as thus provided, the report shall be confirmed at the expiration of twenty days succeeding shall have been filed. § 70. Interlocutory Any judge courts, or any 

SEC. XIII. Orders, of the law judge the day Generally. on which it supreme court, or district of the courts of common pleas, as, well in vacation as in term, may at cham- bers make and direct all such interlocutory orders, rules, and other proceedings preparatory to the hear- ing of causes upon their merits, in the same manner and with the same effect as the court' could make and direct the same in term, reasonable notice of the same or his solicitor; to being first given to the adverse party appear and show cause to the contrary, time thereafter as shall be the hearing thereof. § 71. assigned by the at such judge for All motions, rules, orders, and other proceed- ings made and directed at chambers or at the prothonotary's office, whether special or ofcourse, shall be entered by the docket, on the day prothonotary in his on which they are made and di- rected, and notice thereof given be deemed notice to the equity to the solicitors shall parties for whom and whom they represent, in all cases in which they appear personal notice on the parties is not otherwise specially required. The equity docket shall be kept by the prothonotary a.t his office, and shall be hours to the free inspection of the parties in in equity, open at all office and their solicitors. All notices shall be in writing. § 72. All motions and applications in the prothonotary's office for the (except process issuing of mesne and final any suit process, of sequestration and of attachment to enforce and execute decrees ; ) for filing bills, answers, pleas, demurrers, and other pleadings ; amendments to bills and answers ; confesso ; for filing exceptions, ings which do not for making for taking bills and for other proceed- by the rules hereafter prescribed re- quire any allowance or order of the court, or of any pro thereof, shall be deemed motions and applications judge of the court; but the same may grantable rescinded by any of course by law judge the prothonotary be suspended, altered, or of the court upon cause shown. All motions for rules or orders, and other proceedings § 73. which are not grantable without notice, shall be made on application court or a law judge equity of course, or at chambers, and entered in the docket, and shall be heard at such time thereafter as shall be assigned therefore by the court or judge the time of the making the application ; to the and if the ad- verse party or his solicitor, after notice thereof, shall not then appear, or shall not show good the same, the motion may be heard by any law the court, ex parte, and or refused, in his discretion. § 74. No order allowing granted, cause against judge as if not objected further time shall be made without written notice of the application for such order to the counsel on record of the opposite party ; and any order which does not recite such notice, or that the counsel attended at the § 75. hearing, may be Cautionary orders in disregarded. injunction bills shall not be made, nor shall any injunction be allowed except security injunction be given according shall be to law. But whenever an granted without previous notice to of to, the opposite party, it shall be taken to be dissolved if the motion be not argued within five tice given, unless otherwise specially days after such no- the court or a law to § 76. judge thereof. In the city plead or to close ordered by of Philadelphia all rules, or orders testimony, which, to the time prescribed in the foregoing according rules, would otherwise expire on any day of the months of July and shall be deemed and taken to expire of the month of September following. §77. If, on August, on the same day party shall be ordered to any interlocutory proceeding, pay a the costs thereof, such costs shall be taxed by the prothonotary, and payment thereof may be enforced by attachment and seques- tration, or the party to be paid may, at his to whom the said costs are directed common law writ option, have a and the party against of execution for the recovery thereof ; made shall not be allowed whom such order is  to take any further step such costs. § 78. in the cause until payment 

SEC. XIV. Decrees, and Final Process. In drawing up decrees and orders, neither the bill nor answer, nor other pleadings, nor any part hereof, nor the report of any master, nor any other of prior proceedings, shall be recited or stated in the de- cree or order ; but the decree and orders shall begin in substance as follows: "This cause came on to be heard (or to be further heard, as the case may at this term, and was argued by counsel, and there- upon, upon consideration thereof, it is ordered, ad- judged, and decreed as follows, viz. : the decree or order.) §. 79. the party " (Here The decree shall be drawn by the solicitor of who shall, unless otherwise herein in whose favor it is, copy thereof on the •solicitor of the adverse provided, serve a party, with notice of the time, which shall not be less than three days thereafter, when the same will be submitted to the court; but the court may direct the decree to be entered forth- with, without further notice, nounced, should requires it, is they upon the same think the or when the solicitor of the present and does not object be) insert being pro- justice of the case opposite party to the form thereof. If the opposite party, required to be where notice is  to him, shall not deem such draft of decree in conformity with the intentions of the court, he given may file exceptions thereto before the day of hearing designated in such notice, which shall be submitted with the draft of the decree on the the court approving same in day so appointed, and thereupon, of the draft, or correcting the conformity with such exceptions, or otherwise, the prothonotary shall enter it in his equity docket, and from thenceforth it shall become the act and de- cree of the court. § 80. If the decree or order be ment of money, the party merely for the pay- in whose favor it is made shall be entitled to have a minute thereof (without waiting for the draft of a more formal in the equity docket and entering judgments in the mon law side of the court. § 81. Unless otherwise decree) entered placed in the usual form of judgment index of the com- provided by law or by these rules, or specially ordered by the court, a writ of attachment, and if the defendant cannot be found, or it the court, a writ of may be otherwise thought proper by sequestration or a writ of assistance to enforce a delivery of be the possession, as the case proper process to issue for the compelling obedience to order or decree of the court ; may require, shall purpose any interlocutory or final but the same shall not be issued, unless upon motion and allowance by the court or a law judge thereof. § 82. When any decree or order is for the delivery of possession, upon proof made by affidavit of a de- mand and refusal to obey the decree or order, the the same shall be at liberty to apply forthwith to the court or to a law party prosecuting a "writ of assistance, upon prothonotary shall immediately judge, for ah order for the allowance of which the issue the same. of § 83. Final process the decree be solely for the to execute any decree may, payment of money, be by a writ of execution, in the form used in the same court in suits at common law in actions of debt or assumpsit. If the decree be for the performance act, as, for example, of land or delivering up the decree shall of any specific for the execution of a conveyance of deeds or other documents, prescribe the time within which the act shall be done, of which the defendant shall be bound, without further service, to take notice ; and upon affidavit of the plaintifff, filed, in the prothonotary's office, that the same has not been complied court, if sitting, or any law judge during vacation, may direct the issuing of a writ of attachment against the delinquent party, shall not be with, the from which, if attached thereon, he discharged with' the decree and the unless upon payment special order of the court or of a law a full compliance of costs, or upon thereof, upon motion and affidavit, enlarging judge the time for the performance thereof. If the delinquent party cannot be found, a writ of sequestration may, upon motion,, be ordered by the court or a law judge thereof, to be issued against ventus, to compe§ 84. his estate upon the return of non est in- obedience to the decree. Every person not being a party in who has obtained an order, or in whose favor an order shall have been made, shall be enabled to enforce obedience to such order by the same process as if he any cause, if a were a being a party to the cause ; party to the cause an order of the court to the same and every person not against whom obedience to may be enforced, shall be liable process for enforcing order, as if he were a § 85. party obedience to such in the cause. Clerical mistakes in decrees or decretal orders, or errors arising from may be corrected by thereof, a any accidental slip or omission, order of the court or a law judge upon petition, without the form or expense rehearing. § 

SEC. XV. Rehearing. 86. Every petition for a shall contain, the special matter or cause on which such applied for, shall be rehearing rehearing signed by counsel, and the facts therein stated, if not apparent on the record, shall be verified by the oath of the party, or by some other person. A rehearing may be within the discretion of the court ; granted at any of is time but where the decree has been executed, parties who have acted on the faith of such decree shall not be decree being reversed or varied. prejudiced by such § 87. 

SEC. XVI. General Provisions. The courts may make any other and further rules and regulations for the practice, proceedings, and process, mesne, and final, in their respective tricts, not inconsistent with the rules hereby prescribed,, in their discretion, and from time to time alter and amend the same. § 88. In all cases when these rules or those pre- scribed by the other courts do not of the courts shall be of the regulated by high court of chancery in apply, the the dis- practice present practice England, so far as the same may reasonably be applied consistently with the local circumstances and local convenience of the district where the court is held, not as positive rules, but as furnishing just analogies § 89. to regulate the practice., These rules shall take effect from and after the first day of July, 1865. It shall be the duty of the prothonotary of the supreme court for the eastern district forthwith to send a certified copy thereof to the prothonotaries of the middle, northern, and western prothonotary of each district court and court of common districts, and to the pleas throughout the State. 

