RULE 1. No person shall be admitted to prac
tice as attorney in this court, unless he hath served a
regular clerkship, within the State, to some practicing
attorney or gentleman of the law, of known abilities, .
for the term of four years, and afterwards shall have
practiced as an attorney in one of the county courts of
common pleas, or district courts, for the term of one
year, or served such clerkship three years, and prac
ticed two years: Provided always, That in the case of
a person applying to be admitted who shall appear to
have studied the law with assiduity, under the direc
tion of some practicing attorney or gentleman of the
law of this State, for the term of two years after his
arrival at the age of twenty-one years, and afterwards
practiced in some one of the county courts of common
pleas for the term of two years, he may be admitted.

SEC. 2. Graduates of the Law Department of the
University of Pennsylvania who have passed the pre
liminary examination before the Board of Examiners
of Philadelphia County, and an examination upon
6
Latin, and who have taken the full course of three
years, and received the diploma and degree of Bache
lor of Laws, may be admitted to practice in this court
upon the expiration of three full years from the date of
their preliminary examination upon filing with the pro
thonotary a certificate of the dean of the law depart
ment stating these facts, and upon exhibiting their
diploma, together with a certificate of good character,
as in other cases.

SEC. 3. Graduates of the Dickinson School of Law
who have passed the preliminary examination before
the board of examiners of any county of the Common
wealth, and an examination upon Latin, and who have
taken the full course of three years, and received the
diploma and degree of Bachelor of Laws, may be
admitted to practice in this court upon the expiration
of three full years from the date of their preliminary
examination upon filing with the prothonotary a certifi
cate of the dean of the said law school stating these
facts, and exhibiting their diploma, together with a
certificate of good character, as in other cases.

SEC. 4. Attorneys from other States who have
been admitted to any court of common pleas of this
State may immediately thereafter be admitted in this
court: Provided, That they are in good standing, and
have practiced for five years in the State from which
they have removed.

SEC. 5. All agreements and notices of attorneys
touching the business of the court shall be in writing,
otherwise the court will not undertake to enforce them.
7

SEC. 6. No attorney of this or any other court,
sheriff's officer, bailiff or other person concerned in
the execution of process, shall become bail on appeal
except by special leave of the court previously ob
tained.
CRIMINAL CASES

SEC. 7. In all criminal cases, except those wherein
an appeal to this court is of right by Act of Assembly,
if a special allocatur has not been had, the protho
notary is instructed to enter “writ quashed," and to
return the record to the court from whence it came.

SEC. 8. The first Monday of each month shall be
a special return-day in each district for all appeals in
cases of conviction and sentence of death for murder
of the first degree. The fifth Monday after issuing
the writ shall be assigned for the argument thereof:
Provided, The court shall then be in session in any
district. If then in session in a district other than that
in which the writ issued, the prothonotary issuing such
writ shall certify the record to the district in which the
court shall be sitting. If the court shall not be in
session at that time, the case shall be certified to the
district in which the next term shall be held.

SEC. 9. Capital cases shall be placed at the head
of the list for argument.

SEC. 10. The appellant shall serve his paper
books on the proper district-attorney ten days before
the day assigned for the hearing, and the appellee
shall serve his three days before the hearing.
ERRORS AND APPEALS

SEC. 1 1. Counsel for the appellant shall, on or
before the third day of the term to which the writ is
returnable, specify in writing the particular errors
which he assigns, and file the same in the prothono
tary's office; and on failure so to do, the court may
non pros. the writ."

SEC. 12. In all cases where the record is not re
turned on the return-day of the term at which
the case is upon the list for argument, it shall be
the duty of the prothonotary to enter a non pros.,
which shall not be taken off except by special order
of the court.

SEC. 13. The prothonotary shall endorse on each
appeal or writ of certiorari to remove proceedings a

SEC. to appear and plead at the return-day of the writ;
and on default of appearance when the cause is called
for argument, and on proof of ten days' service on the
appellee or his counsel below, the court will proceed
ex parte.

SEC. 1.4. In all cases where, in pursuance of the
judgment of this court, a cause goes back to the court
below for further proceedings, it shall be the duty of
the prothonotary to certify and send back with the
order, decree or judgment, a copy of the opinion of
the court which shall have been filed.”

SEC. 15. Motions for reargument or for other
purpose, after judgment given, shall be filed in the
office of this court for the proper district, but the
prothonotory shall not retain the record in any ap
peal beyond the limit of ten days provided by the Act
of May 19, 1897, unless upon an order from the court
or one of the justices thereof. Such motions must
be accompanied with a copy of the opinion of the
COUlrt.

SEC. 16. Petitions for the allowance of an appeal
from the Superior or other court, or for special super
sedeas or other interlocutory order, must set forth the
question involved, the opinion of the court and the
grounds on which an appeal or other order is asked,
and where practicable must be accompanied by copies
of the paper-books.

SEC. 17. All such petitions shall be filed with
the prothonotary of the district in which the cause
I I
is pending, and shall be presented by him to the
court or the most convenient justice thereof. For
purposes of computation of time, etc., the matter
shall be deemed to be sub judice from the date of
such filing.

SEC. 18. If the prayer of the petition be granted,
the prothonotary shall notify counsel for the petitioner,
who must thereupon promptly file his precipe and
perfect the appeal in accordance with the statute, or
take such action in cases not for appeal as may be
appropriate to the relief sought: Patt-Barber Co. vs.
Groves, 193 Pa. 475.
PAPER-BOOKS

SEC. 19. Where the appeal is from a judgment
"on a verdict, the paper-book of the appellant shall
contain the following matters in the following order:
1. The names of all the parties as they stood on the
record of the court below at the time of the trial,
with the addition of the word “appellant” after the
name of the party taking the appeal. 2. An abstract
of the proceedings, showing the form of the action,
the docket entries, the issue and how it was made.
3. The verdict of the jury and the judgment thereon.
4. A statement of the question involved. 5. A his
tory of the case. 6. The charge of the court, with
the points, if any, which were submitted in writing
to the court below. 7. The specifications of error.
8. A brief of the argument for the appellant. 9. An
appendix, containing the evidence and the pleadings
in full." "----SEC. 2.0. In all cases of appeal directly to this
court from any court of first instance, in which the
amount of money or value of the property in contro
versy for purposes of jurisdiction does not affirmatively
appear in one of the modes prescribed in Section 7,
Clause C, of the Act of June 24, 1895 (the Superior
Court Act), the appellant shall be required to file with
his appeal a certificate of the judge hearing the case
that the value of the property, right or matter really
in controversy is greater than fifteen hundred dollars,
which certificate shall be printed in the appellant's
paper-book immediately after the docket entries. For
want of such certificate the writ may be quashed.

SEC. 2 I. If the facts on which to base the certifi
cate do not appear in the course of the trial or hearing,
the judge shall require the parties to produce evidence
thereof for his information in order to make such
certificate.

SEC. 2.2. In all cases to which a bill of exceptions
at common law is applicable it is strongly recom
mended that such a bill be taken in the established
form. Where this is not done, a certificate, signed by
the judge in the following form, will be required, viz.:
The foregoing notes of testimony, with the
exceptions taken by counsel during the trial to the
rejection or admission thereof, and the charge with the
exceptions thereto, have been examined by me, and
are hereby approved and ordered to be filed.

SEC. 23 Paper-books in other cases shall con
form as nearly as circumstances admit to the preced
Judge."
ing rules. But where the judgment below is on a case
stated in the nature of a special verdict, the facts as
agreed on by the parties shall be substituted for the
history of the case. All other requirements of the
preceding rules, including the statement of the ques
tion involved, must be complied with.

SEC. 24. Paper-books on appeals from the Supe
rior Court shall contain the petition and the order allow
ing the appeal, the opinion of the Superior Court, the
dissenting opinion or opinions, if any, and assignments
of error to the judgment of the Superior Court. If it is
desired to use the same paper-books used in the Supe
rior Court, they shall have a prefatory or supplement
ary addition containing the matters hereby required.

SEC. 25. In appeals in equity the appellant's
paper-book shall contain: 1. The names of the parties
and the nature of the proceedings. 2. A short abstract
of the bill or petition and answer. 3. A statement
of the question involved. 4. A history of the case.
5. The report of the auditor or master, if there was
one. 6. The exceptions taken to the report in the
court below. 7. The opinion of the court on the excep
tions and the decree made. 8. Assignment of error.
9. Argument on part of appellant. Io. Appendix,
containing
the
pleadings
in full and such
documentary
or other
evidence
as may
be necessary.
RULE
26. The
statement
of the
question
involved
is designed
to enable
the court
to obtain
an
immediate
view
of the nature
of
the
controversy.
It must
state
the question
or
questions
in the
briefest
and
most
general
terms,
without
names,
dates,
amounts
or par
ticulars
of any kind
whatever.
It should
not exceed
six or eight
lines,
and
must
not,
under
any
circum
stances,
exceed
half a page.
For any
violation
of this
rule
the paper-book
will be
suppressed
and the appeal
non prossed
as for
total
default
of paper-book.
This
rule
is to be
regarded
as in the highest
degree
man
datory
and admitting
no exception.”
RULE
27. It
shall
be optional
with
counsel
to add
such
particulars
as
may
be thought
necessary
in his his
tory of the case. But the rule that such history must
not contain argument or any portion of the testimony is
not relaxed. Such matters belong in the argument.

SEC. 28. The history of the case must contain a
closely condensed statement of all the facts of which a
knowledge may be necessary in order to determine
the points in controversy here, but must not contain
any argument or any portion of the testimony.

SEC. 29. Each error relied on must be specified
particularly and by itself. If any specification embrace
more than one point, or refer to more than one bill of
exceptions, or raise more than one distinct question,
it shall be considered a waiver of all the errors so
alleged."

SEC. 30. When the error assigned is to the
charge of the court, or to answers to points, the part
of the charge or the points and answers referred to
must be quoted totidem verbis in the specification.”

SEC. 31. When the error assigned is to the
admission or rejection of evidence, the specification
must quote the questions or offers, the ruling of the
court thereon, and the testimony or evidence admitted,
if any, together with a reference to the page of the
paper-book where the matter may be found in its
regular order in the printed evidence or notes of trial.
When the error is as to the admission or rejection of
a writing, a full copy of the writing must be printed in
the paper-book. Any assignment of error not accord
ing to this and the last rule will be disregarded.”

SEC. 32. The brief of the argument must contain
a clear statement of the points on which the party
relies, with such reasons and arguments as he may see
proper to add, together with all the authorities which
he thinks pertinent. Where the error assigned is to
the finding of fact by an auditor or master, the printed
argument shall contain a synopsis of all the evidence
bearing upon such disputed question of fact with
reference to the page or pages of the paper-book
where such evidence may be found in extenso.

SEC. 33. When an authority is cited the princi
ple intended to be proved by it must be stated. A
naked reference to the book will not be sufficient.
Pennsylvania cases decided since the commencement
of the State Reports must be cited by the volume of
said State Reports. Wherever decisions of this court
are cited from the legal periodicals, they must be
accompanied by the certificate of counsel that said
cases have not been reported in the State Reports."

SEC. 34. The paper-book of the appellee may,
if he chooses, contain no more than his argument.
But he may at his option make a counter-statement of
the question involved, and also, separately, a history
of the case, with the facts as he claims them to be.

SEC. 35. In cases originating in the county of
Philadelphia, the appellant shall serve a copy of his
paper-book on the opposite party, or his attorney, at
least ten days before the first day of the term to which
the writ of error or appeal is entered, and when the
cause is called shall furnish one copy to each of the
judges, and nine to the prothonotary—two for the
reporter, one for the Law Association of Philadelphia,
one for the State Library, one for the Lega/ /ntelli
gencer, one for the West Publishing Company, two for
his office, and one for the records. The appellee shall
serve a copy of his paper-book on the opposite party,
or his attorney, at least five days before the argument,
furnish a copy to each judge, and nine to the pro
thonotary for the same purposes as the paper-books
of the appellant.

SEC. 36. In all cases, except those originating in
the county of Philadelphia, the appellant shall serve a
copy of his paper-book on the opposite party, or his
attorney, at least twelve days before the day appointed
for hearing the cases from the county where the cause
was
tried;
and the appellee
shall
serve
a copy
of his
paper-book
on the opposite
party,
or
his
attorney,
at
least
five days
before
the time
appointed
for hearing
as
aforesaid.
But if the appeal
shall
have
been
taken
thirty
days
or
more
before
the day
assigned
for the
hearing
as aforesaid,
the paper-book
of the appellant
shall
be served
at least
twenty
days,
and
that
of the
opposite
party
at least
five days,
before
the days
as
signed
for the
hearing
of the said
causes.
When
the
cause
is called,
each
party
shall
furnish
a copy
of his
paper-book
to
each
judge,
and
nine
copies
to the pro
thonotary,
one of which
is to remain
with
the records,
and two to be
delivered
to the reporter,
and
one
for
26
the Law Association of Philadelphia, one for the State
Library, one for the Legal Intelligencer, one for the
West Publishing Company and two for the prothono
tary.

SEC. 37. When the appellant is in default accord
ing to these rules, he may be non-suited on motion;
and when the appellee is in default, he will not be
heard except by special indulgence of the court.

SEC. 38. When paper-books are furnished which
differ in any material respect from those here pre
scribed, the parties furnishing them shall be considered
in the same default as if none had been furnished, and
on a proper occasion the court will, of its own motion,
non-suit or silence the defaulting party, or suppress
the paper-book.

SEC. 39. Paper-books shall be furnished in the
shape and size of a common octavo pampfilet, on
ordinary printing paper. All paper-books shall contain
a full and complete index. The cover shall show the
number and term of the case in this court, the names
of the parties in the same order as they appear on the
docket of the court below, with the addition of the
word “appellant" after the name of the party taking
the appeal, and the court from which the appeal is
taken. Appeals in the Orphans' Court shall be en
titled “Estate of Appeal of 5 *
27
ARGUMENTS AND ARGUMENT LISTS

SEC. 40. All cases shall be placed upon the argu
ment list for the proper county next succeeding their
entry, unless otherwise specially ordered by the court:
Provided, That no case shall be placed on the argu
ment list where the appeal shall not have been taken
twenty days before the return-day.

SEC. 41. Cases will be called for argument in the
order in which they stand on the printed argument list.
If neither party be present or ready to proceed with
the argument the case shall be non prossed, unless
reason to the contrary be shown to the satisfaction of
the court.

SEC. 42. The argument of each cause shall be
limited to one hour, unless the Chief Justice, upon an
examination of the paper-books, shall consider more
time to be necessary.

SEC. 43. Sixty causes shall be assigned to each
week, and a list thereof shall be made up and pub
lished by the prothonotary on the Saturday preced
ing; said causes shall be set down in the order of
their term and number, and shall be numbered on
said list consecutively. The first twelve cases on said
weekly list shall be assigned for argument on Mon
day, and for each succeeding day of the week, except
Saturday, the first twelve cases theretofore undisposed
of on said list shall be assigned for argument. No
cause on said list shall be continued when reached,
28
except by leave of the court upon cause shown. En
gagements of counsel in the lower courts will not be
recognized as a reason for the continuance or post
ponement of a cause, except when they are actually
engaged in a trial which has been commenced in a
previous week and is unfinished.

SEC. 44. When it is desired, for any reason what
ever, that a case be passed at its regular turn on the
list, the prothonotary must be notified before the case
is put on the daily list. Engagement of counsel in
other courts, or agreement of parties, is no ground of
exception to this requirement. The rule is for the
conduct of the court's business, and is not subject to
variation by counsel for any cause.

SEC. 45. The list shall be made up each day at
3 o'clock for the following day, and cases on that list
must be argued or non prossed when called.

SEC. 46. The prothonotary of each district shall
keep a separate list for short causes. SEC. 47. To this list all causes shall be trans
ferred in which the attorney of either party shall cer
tify that it is a short cause. Notice of such transfer
shall be given forthwith by the prothonotary to the
other party.

SEC. 48. The causes on this list shall have pre
cedence over all others on Wednesday of the week
29
in which the same causes would be heard, if they had
remained on the general list and had been reached in
their order.

SEC. 49. Where a cause has been certified to be
a short cause by the attorney of one party, and the
attorney of the other party shall object in writing, it
shall be put back again on the regular list: Provided,
That such objection shall be made within three days
from notice, and before the short list is taken up on
Wednesday morning.

SEC. 50. On the hearing of short causes the
time of counsel shall be limited to fifteen minutes on
each side.
ARRANGEMENT OF DISTRICTS.
EASTERN DISTRICT
Bedford, Crawford, Lehigh,
Berks, Cumberland, Luzerne,
Blair, Delaware, Lycoming,
Bradford, Elk, McKean,
Bucks, Erie, Mifflin,
Cameron, Fayette, Monroe,
Carbon, Franklin, Montgomery,
Chester, Huntingdon, Montour,
Centre, Juniata, Northampton,
Clearfield, Lackawanna, Northumberland,
Clinton, Lancaster, Philadelphia,
Columbia, Lebanon, Perry,
3O
EASTERN DISTRICT –Continued.
Pike, Sullivan, Warren,
Potter, Susquehanna, Wayne,
Schuylkill, Tioga, Wyoming,
Snyder, Union, York.
MIDDLE DISTRICT
Adams, Dauphin, Fulton.
WESTERN DISTRICT
Allegheny, Forest, Mercer,
Armstrong, Greene, Somerset,
Beaver, Indiana, Venango,
Butler, Jefferson, Washington,
Cambria, Lawrence, - Westmoreland.
Clarion,
SUPREME COURT ARGUMENT WEEKS
EASTERN DISTRICT
The first, second, third and fourth Mondays of
January for the county of Philadelphia.
The fourth Monday following the first Monday of
January in each year for the counties of Lehigh and
Montgomery.
The fifth Monday following the first Monday of
January for the counties of Chester, Delaware and
Bucks.
The sixth Monday following the first Monday of
January for the counties of Schuylkill and Lebanon.
3 I
The seventh Monday following the first Monday
in January for the counties of Lackawanna, Wayne,
Pike and Wyoming.
The eighth Monday following the first Monday in
January for the counties of Berks and Montour.
The ninth Monday following the first Monday in
January for the counties of Northampton, Carbon,
Monroe and Franklin. The tenth Monday following the first Monday in
January for the counties of Bradford, Lycoming, Clin
ton, Cameron, Sullivan and Susquehanna.
The eleventh, twelfth and thirteenth Mondays fol
lowing the first Monday of January for the county of
Philadelphia.
The fourteenth Monday following the first Mon
day in January for the counties of Luzerne and
Columbia.
The fifteenth Monday following the first Monday
in January for the counties of Blair, Centre, Clearfield
and Huntingdon.
The sixteenth Monday following the first Monday
in January for the counties of Crawford, Erie and
Cumberland.
The seventeenth Monday following the first Mon
day in January for the counties of Warren, McKean,
Tioga, Potter and Elk.
The eighteenth Monday following the first Mon
day in January for the counties of Bedford, Fayette,
Union and Snyder.
The nineteenth Monday following the first Mon
day in January for the counties of Lancaster and
York.
32
The twentieth Monday following the first Monday
in January for the counties of Northumberland, Juni
ata, Mifflin and Perry.
MIDDLE DISTRICT
Twenty-first Monday after the first Monday of
January for the counties of Dauphin, Adams and Ful
tOn.
VVESTERN DISTRICT
The second Monday in October for the counties
of Armstrong, Cambria, Clarion, Forest, Jefferson,
Mercer, Somerset, Venango and Westmoreland.
The third Monday in October for the counties
of Beaver, Butler, Greene, Indiana, Lawrence and
Washington.
The fourth Monday in October, and continuing
until the list has been heard, for the county of Alle
gheny.
33
Rules of Equity Practice
in the
Courts of Pennsylvania
As adopted by the Supreme Court May 27, 1865, and amended
by the orders of January 15, 1894 and October 5, 1900
RULES IN EQUITY
GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 1. The equity side of the courts shall be
deemed always open for the purpose of filing bills,
answers and other pleadings, for issuing and returning
mesne and final process and commissions, and for
making and directing all interlocutory motions, orders,
rules and other proceedings, preparatory to the hear
ing of causes upon their merits.

SEC. 2. The prothonotary's office shall be open,
and the prothonotary shall be in attendance therein
daily, during office hours, for the purpose of receiving,
entering, entertaining and disposing of all motions,
rules, orders and other proceedings, which are grant
able of course, and applied for or had by the parties
or their solicitors, in all causes pending in equity, in
pursuance of the rules hereby prescribed.
34
PROCESS AND APPEARANCE

SEC. 3. No suit shall be deemed pending until
the bill be actually filed in the prothonotary's office.
Every bill shall be printed, except in the cases spec
ially provided for in these rules; and the prothono
tary shall endorse thereon the time of filing the same.

SEC. 4. Unless otherwise provided by law, the
defendant or defendants shall be required in the first
instance, to appear and answer the exigency of the
bill, by the service upon each defendant therein named,
of a printed copy thereof, on which shall be endorsed
a notice in the following form: “To (here the name of
the defendant, upon whom service is to be made,
must be inserted). You are hereby notified and
required, within fifteen days after service hereof on
you, to cause an appearance to be entered for you in
the court (here insert the proper court), to the within
bill of complaint of the within-named (here insert the
name of complainant), and to observe what the said
court shall direct. You are also notified that if you fail
to comply with the above directions by not entering an
appearance in the prothonotary's office within fifteen
days you will be liable to have the bill taken pro confesso,
and a decree made against you in your absence.
Witness my hand at (here insert the place where the
court is held, the date of notice, and name and place
of business of plaintifff's solicitor).

SEC. 5. The plaintifff shall be at liberty to include
in the rule to appear a further requirement to answer
within thirty days, and in such case the notice shall
35
contain the words “and to file your answer within
thirty days,” after the words “cause an appearance to
be entered for you in the court,” and again the same
words in the notice that failure to comply will render
defendant liable to judgment pro confesso.

SEC. 6. If the defendant cannot prepare his
answer within thirty days the court may on motion,
with notice to the other party, enlarge the time.

SEC. 7. Guardians ad /item to defend a suit may
be appointed by the court, or by any judge thereof, on
petition, for infants or other persons, who are under
guardianship, or otherwise incapable to sue for them
selves; all infants and other persons so incapable may
sue by their guardians, if any, or by their prochein ami,
subject, however, to such orders as the court may
direct, as to security or otherwise, for the protection
of such infants and other persons.

SEC. 8. Service upon a defendant shall be by
giving him a printed copy of the bill, with a notice
endorsed thereon in the form prescribed in these rules,
or by leaving such copy and notice at his dwelling
house, with an adult member of his family or the
family in which he resides. The court, or a law judge
thereof, may direct how service shall be made in
special cases.

SEC. 9. In cases where husband and wife are
defendants, service of a copy of the bill and notice to
appear shall be made on each of them. Service on
non-resident defendants shall be made in the mode
prescribed by the acts of assembly relating thereto.
36

SEC. 10. Service of the bill and notice to appear
and answer on a corporation, shall be effected in the
mode prescribed by law for the service of a writ of
summons upon such corporation. Where the com
monwealth is a necessary party, service shall be
made in the manner prescribed by the act of 6th
April, 1844.

SEC. II. Whenever the court shall make an
order under the provisions of the act of 6th April,
1859, for a service upon a non-resident defendant,
without the commonwealth, such service shall be by
delivery to him of a copy of the bill, such as is pro
vided for in these rules, together with a copy of the
order authorizing such service; and in such case the
form of subpoena shall be similar in substance to the
notice to appear prescribed by these rules, but so
varied as to require the defendant to cause an appear
ance to be entered for him, on or before the time
fixed in such special order.

SEC. 12. Whenever the court shall direct service
by publication, under the provisions of the act of 6th
April, 1859, a copy of such order, together with a
statement of the substance and object of the bill, peti
tion, or other proceeding, shall be published in such one
or more newspapers, and at such times as the court
shall by special order direct, having regard to the
probable residence of the defendant, and affidavit filed
stating all the knowledge or information of the com
plainant or deponent, in reference to such defendant's
place of residence.
37

SEC. 13. Upon filing the bill the prothonotary
shall enter the suit upon his docket as pending in the
court, and shall state the time of entry; and upon the
filing of an affidavit of the due service of notice to
appear and answer upon the defendant or defendants,
shall enter the same upon the docket. The appearance
of the defendant, either personally or by solicitor,
shall be by a paper filed and endorsed by the prothono
tary, with the time of filing the same, and shall be noted
on the margin of the equity docket. If the defendant
shall not cause an appearance to be entered for him
and an answer filed within the time limited for that
purpose, the plaintifff may, at his election, enter an
order as of course in the cause, that the bill be taken
pro confesso, or proceed by attachment as is hereafter
provided by Rule 29.
PLEADINGS GENERALLY

SEC. 14. All bills, and subsequent pleadings, in
cluding amendments, where such amendments exceed
one hundred consecutive words, shall be printed on
white sized paper of a convenient size. Amendments
shall be printed on one side only of the paper. Each
party appearing by separate counsel shall be entitled
to ten copies of all such pleadings. The amount paid
for printing shall be allowed as costs of the cause.
This rule shall not apply where counsel shall certify
that his client, by reason of poverty, is unable to pay
for the same. In which case, instead of ten printed
copies, each party shall be entitled to one fairly written
copy of all pleadings, and in such case any other party
38
may print such papers, and be allowed for the expense
at the termination of the cause, or when the court
shall see fit to order the payment by the other party.
The prothonotary shall not permit any such unprinted
pleadings to be filed, saving with such a certificate, and
saving also bills for injunction where counsel shall
certify that there has not been time to print the same.
And such injunction bills shall be withdrawn and
deemed finally dismissed as of course, unless within
twenty days after filing the same, printed copies are
filed and served.
sTRUCTURE OF BILL

SEC. 15. Every bill shall be expressed in as brief
and succinct terms as it reasonably can be, and shall
contain no unnecessary recitals of deeds, documents,
contracts, or other instruments, in haec verba, or any
other impertinent matter, or any scandalous matter
not relevant to the suit. If it do, it may be heard by
any law judge of the court on exceptions for imperti
nence or scandal, and if so found by him, the matter
shall be expunged at the expense of the plaintifff, and
he shall pay to the defendant all his costs in the suit
up to that time, unless the court or a law judge thereof
shall otherwise order. If the judge shall find that the
bill is not scandalous or impertinent, the plaintifff shall
be entitled to such allowance for trouble and delay as
the court may decree equitable, to be taxed as part of
the costs in the case.

SEC. 16. Every bill, in the introductory part
thereof, shall contain the names of all the parties,
39
plaintifffs, and defendants, by and against whom the
bill is brought. The form in substance shall be as
follows: In the (style of court) Sitting in equity.
Between A B, plaintifff, and CD, defendant. To the
Honorable the Judges of the said court your orator
complains and says, &c.

SEC. 17. The bill shall be divided into para
graphs consecutively numbered, and shall contain a
succinct statement of the facts upon which the plaintifff
asks relief, and, at his option, the facts which are
intended to avoid an anticipated defense, and such
averments as may be necessary under the rules of
equity pleading to entitle the plaintifff to relief, and the
prayer for relief and for special orders, writs, or pro
cess, which shall also be so divided and numbered.
The combination clause, the interrogatories, and the
allegation of want of remedy at law and similar formal
averments shall be omitted.
PARTIES

SEC. 18. Where no account, payment or con
veyance, or other direct relief is sought against a party
to a suit not being an infant, the party upon service
of the notice upon him, need not appear and answer
the bill unless the plaintifff especially requires him so
to do, by the prayer of his bill; but he may appear
and answer at his option; and if he does not appear
and answer he shall be bound by all the proceedings
in the cause. If the plaintifff shall require him to
appear and answer, he shall be entitled to the costs
4O
of all the proceedings against him, unless the court
shall otherwise direct.

SEC. 19. Where infants or persons not sui juris,
are parties, the fact shall be specially stated in the bill,
so that the court before or after the service of process
may take such order thereon as justice may require.

SEC. 2.0. Where persons without the jurisdiction
are proper or necessary parties, this fact shall be stated
in the bill, and they may be brought in by service when
they come within the jurisdiction of the court, or under
a special order as provided by the acts of assembly.

SEC. 21. In all cases where it shall appear to the
court that persons who might otherwise be deemed
necessary or proper parties to the suit, cannot be
made parties by reason of their being out of the juris
diction of the court, incapable otherwise of being made
parties, or because their joinder would oust the juris
diction of the court as to the parties before the court,
the court may, in their discretion, proceed in the cause
without making such persons parties; and in such
cases the decree shall be without prejudice to the
rights of the absent parties.

SEC. 2.2. Where the parties on either side are
very numerous, and cannot without manifest incon
venience and oppressive delays in the suit be all
brought before it, the court in its discretion may dis
pense with making all of them parties, and may pro
ceed in the suit, having sufficient parties before it to
represent all the adverse interest of the plaintifffs and
4 I
the defendants in the suit properly before it. But in
such cases the decree shall be without prejudice to the
rights and claims of all the absent parties.

SEC. 23. In all suits concerning real estate, which
is vested in trustees, and such trustees are competent
to sell and give discharges for the proceeds of the sale,
and for the rents and profits of the estate, such trus
tees shall represent the persons beneficially interested
in the estate or the proceeds, or the rents and profits,
in the same manner and to the same extent as the ex
ecutors or administrators in suits concerning personal
estate represent the persons beneficially interested in
such personal estate; and in such cases it shall not be
necessary to make the persons beneficially interested
in such real estate or rents and profits parties to the
suit, but the court may, upon consideration of the
matter on the hearing, if it shall so think fit, order
such persons to be made parties.

SEC. 24. In suits to execute the trusts of a will,
it shall not be necessary to make the heir-at-law a
party; but the plaintifff shall be at liberty to make the
heirs-at-law parties where he desires to have the will
established against them.

SEC. 25. In all cases where the plaintifff has a
joint and several demand against several persons,
either as principals or sureties, it shall not be neces
sary to bring before the court, as parties to a suit con
cerning such demand, all the persons liable thereto;
but the plaintifff may proceed against one or more of
the persons severally liable. But the defendant may
42
at once proceed by a bill in the nature of a cross-bill,
against such party as is liable jointly with him, and
such party shall be permitted to make himself a party
to the original cause, and defend the same, and the
proceedings in the original cause shall, after the ser
vice of such cross-bill, be conclusive as to such other
party, and if he shall appear thereto, be conducted
as if he had been made a party thereto in the first
instance.

SEC. 26. If a defendant shall, at the hearing of a
case, object that a suit is defective for want of parties
not having taken the objection by answer or demurrer,
and therein specified by name or description the parties
to whom the objection applies, the court, if it shall
think fit, shall be at liberty to make a decree, saving
the rights of the absent parties.

SEC. 27. Where the defendant shall, by his an
swer, suggest that the bill is defective for want of
parties, the plaintifff shall be at liberty, within fourteen
days after answer filed, to set down the cause for ar
gument upon that objection only; and the purpose for
which the same is so set down shall be notified by an
entry, to be made in the equity docket, in the form or
to the effect following, that is to say: “Set down upon
the defendant's objection for want of parties.” And
where the plaintifff shall not set down his cause, but
shall proceed therewith to a hearing, notwithstanding
an objection for want of parties taken by the answer,
he shall not, at the hearing of the cause, if the de
fendant's objection shall then be allowed, be entitled
43
as of course to an order for liberty to amend his bill
by adding parties. But the court, if it think fit, shall
be at liberty to dismiss the bill.

SEC. 28. The parties to a suit may at any time
before decree, by agreement in writing, without special
motion, consent that the bill be dismissed, with or
without costs, as may be stipulated ; and upon pay
ment of the costs due to the officers of the court, such
agreement shall be entered upon the docket, and the
suit shall be thereupon fully ended and discontinued.
DEMURRERS, AND DECREES PRO CONFESSO

SEC. 29. The plaintifff shall be entitled in filing
his bill to a rule on defendant to be entered of course
in the prothonotary's office, to file his demurrer, or
answer to the bill within thirty days after service of
notice of such rule; in default of compliance therewith
the plaintifff may at his election enter an order as of
course in the cause, that the bill be taken pro com/esso.
And in such case, and also where the bill is taken pro
confesso for want of an appearance, the cause shall be
proceeded in ex parte, and the case may be put upon
the next equity argument list, and the matter of the
bill may be decreed by the court when there reached
in its order, if the same can be done without an
answer, upon the allegations in the bill, which without
further proof shall be taken as admitted; or the plaint
iff, if he requires any discovery or answer to enable
him to obtain a proper decree shall be entitled to pro
cess of attachment against the defendant to compel an
answer, and the defendant shall not, when arrested
44
upon such process, be discharged therefrom unless
upon filing his answer or otherwise complying with
such order as the court or a law judge thereof may
direct as to fully answering the bill within a period to
be fixed by the court or judge, and undertaking to
speed the cause ; or it shall be in the option of the
plaintifff, when such rule to answer or demur shall
have been served as aforesaid and not complied with,
or on default of appearance by the defendant within
the time limited therefore, instead of taking the bill pro
confesso, to have process of contempt to compel an
anSWel".

SEC. 30. When the bill is taken pro confesso, and
the court shall have proceeded to a decree as afore
said, such decree so rendered shall be deemed abso
lute, unless the court or a law judge thereof shall,
within fourteen days after the service of notice of such
decree on the defendant, set aside the same and give
the defendant time for filing an answer upon cause
shown. And no such motion shall be granted, unless
the defendant shall undertake to file his answer within
such time as the court shall direct, and submit to such
other terms as the court shall direct for the purpose of
speeding the cause.

SEC. 31. The defendant may, at any time before
the bill is taken for confessed, or afterwards with the
leave of the court, demur to the whole bill or to part
of it, and he may demur to part and answer as to the
residue, but all issues of fact must be made by
anSW C1".
45

SEC. 32. No demurrer shall be allowed to be
filed to any bill, unless supported by affidavit that it is
not interposed for delay. Demurrers shall be substan
tially in the form following: “The defendant demurs
to the whole bill,” “or to so much of the bill, or dis
covery or relief," stating the particulars and assigning
the reason or grounds in detail.

SEC. 33. The plaintifff may set down the case for
argument on the demurrer, and if he shall not do so
within ten days after service of the same, the defend
ant may set it down for argument on five days' notice.

SEC. 34. No demurrer shall be held bad and
overruled upon argument, only because such demurrer
shall not cover so much of the bill as it might by law
have extended to, or because the answer of the defend
ant may extend to some part of the same matter as
may be covered by such demurrer.

SEC. 35. If, upon the hearing, any demurrer or
plea shall be allowed, the court may, in its discretion,
upon motion of the plaintifff, allow him to amend his
bill upon such terms as it shall deem reasonable.

SEC. 36. If, upon the hearing, any demurrer is
overruled, unless the court shall be satisfied that it
was intended for vexation and delay, the defendant
shall be required to answer the bill, or so much thereof
as is covered by the demurrer, at such period as, con
sistently with justice and the rights of the defendant,
the same can, in the judgment of the court, be reason
ably done; in default whereof the bill shall be taken
46
against him, pro confesso, and the matter thereof pro
ceeded in and decreed accordingly; and such decree
shall also be made when the court deems the plea or
demurrer to have been for vexation or delay, or to
have been frivolous or unfounded.
ANSWERS AND CROSS-BILLS

SEC. 37. The defendant shall make answer to all
the material allegations of the bill. The answer of a
defendant must be in the first person, and divided into
paragraphs, numbered consecutively, each paragraph
containing, as nearly as may be, a separate and dis
tinct allegation. The rule, that if the defendant sub
mits to answer, he shall answer fully to all the matters
of the bill, shall no longer apply in cases where he
might, by plea or demurrer, protect himself from such
answer and discovery. And the defendant shall be
entitled in all cases, by answer, to insist upon all mat
ters of defense in law (not being matters of abatement,
or to the character of the parties, or of matters of
form,) to the merits of the bill, of which he may be
entitled to avail himself by demurrer or plea in bar;
and in such answer he shall not be compellable to
answer any other matters than he would be compell
able to answer and discover, upon filing a demurrer
or plea in bar and an answer in support of such plea,
touching the matters set forth in the bill to avoid or
repel the bar, or defense.—Thus, for example, a bona
fide purchaser, for a valuable consideration, without
notice, may set up the defense by way of answer,
instead of plea, and shall be entitled to the same pro
47
tection, and shall not be compellable to make any fur
ther answer or discovery of his title than he would be
in any answer in support of such plea.

SEC. 38. Specific interrogatories to defendants .
shall not be included in the bill, but may be filed sepa
rately, if necessary. In like manner, any defendant
shall be entitled to file interrogatories to any of the
plaintifffs after he shall have put in his own answer to
the bill. In either case, they may be filed at any time
before the taking of testimony is begun, and shall be
deemed, with the answers, part of the pleadings. By
special leave on notice, they may be filed after testi
mony has been taken, and answers required at such
time as the court or a law judge may order. They
shall be divided as conveniently as may be, and num
bered. Where there is more than one defendant or
plaintifff, the particular interrogatories which each is
required to answer shall be specified by a note at the
foot of the paper. A copy shall be served on each
party required to answer them, or his counsel, and an
order of course, to answer within ten days after such
service, and on neglect to answer any interrogatory
and serve a copy of such answer within that time, the
plaintifff or defendant, as the case may be, shall be en
titled to move for an attachment to compel an answer.

SEC. 39. A plaintifff or defendant shall be at lib
erty to decline answering any interrogatory, or part of
an interrogatory, when he might have protected him
self by demurrer from answering the subject-matter of
the interrogatory; and he shall be at liberty so to de
48
cline, notwithstanding he shall answer other interroga
tories, from which he might have protected himself by
demurrer, and the plaintifff or defendant may, on forty
eight hours' notice, set down the matter for a hearing
before any law judge of the court, as on an exception
to the answer for insufficiency. But where the inter
rogatories are not fully answered, and no reason is
assigned for the omission, the particular objection
must be pointed out by exception, to be filed and
served at least ten days before the hearing of such
exception. The plaintifff or defendant shall be at lib
erty, before answers to the interrogatories are filed, or
pending exceptions, to file or require a replication,
and proceed to take testimony without waiver of his
right to such answers, or of his exceptions to the
2nSWerS.

SEC. 40. Cross-bills for discovery only shall not
be allowed, but the defendant shall be at liberty instead.
thereof, to file interrogatories to the plaintifff as above
provided. In other cross-bills no further reference
shall be made to the matters contained in the original
bill than shall be necessary, but the same may be
treated as if incorporated therein. The rules regulat
ing the form of bills shall apply to cross-bills. If no
new parties are introduced, service of a copy of the
cross-bill on the counsel of the plaintifff in the original
bill shall be sufficient. Where other persons are made
parties, the service shall be in the manner provided in
original bills, a copy of such original bill being served
together with the cross-bill, and such new parties shall
49
be entitled to have copies of the answer to the original
bill as required for the plaintifff.

SEC. 41. Answers and affidavits may be sworn
to before any person authorized to administer oaths
under the laws or usages of this commonwealth, or of
any other state, territory, or country, where the oath
is taken.
EXCEPTIONS TO ANSWERS

SEC. 42. After answers are filed to interrogatories,
the plaintifff shall be allowed twenty days from the
service of a copy of such answers on the plaintifff's
counsel, to file in the prothonotary's office exceptions
thereto, and no longer, unless a longer time shall be
allowed for the purpose, upon cause shown to the
court or a law judge thereof; and if no exceptions
shall be filed thereto within that period, the answer
shall be deemed and taken to be sufficient.

SEC. 43. Where an exception shall be filed to the
answer to any interrogatory for insufficiency, within the
period prescribed by these rules, if the defendant shall
not submit to the same, and file an amended answer
within ten days from service of a copy of such excep
tion on the defendant's counsel, the plaintifff shall forth
with order the prothonotary to set the matter down
for a hearing on the next day thereafter appointed for
such causes, before a law judge of the court, and shall
give notice of such order to the opposite party or his
solicitor. And if he shall not so set the same down
for a hearing, the exception shall be deemed aban
5O
doned, and the answer shall be deemed sufficient;
provided, however, that the court or any law judge
thereof may, for good cause shown, enlarge the time
for filing an exception or for filing an amended answer
in their or his discretion, upon such terms as they or
he Inay deem reasonable. Exceptions shall be printed,
and the expense of printing such as are sustained shall
be allowed as costs, to be immediately recovered.

SEC. 44. If at the hearing, any exception shall
be allowed, the defendant shall be bound to put in a full
and complete answer to the particular interrogatory,
within ten days, unless the time be enlarged by order
of the court, otherwise the plaintifff shall as of course
be entitled to take the bill, so far as the matter of such
exceptions is concerned, as confessed, or, at his elec
tion, he may have a writ of attachment to compel the
defendant to make a better answer to the matter of
the exception; and the defendant, when he is in custody
upon such writ, shall not be discharged therefrom but
by an order of the court or of a law judge thereof,
upon his putting in such answer and complying with
such other terms as the court or judge may direct.

SEC. 45. No order shall be made by any judge
for hearing any bill, answer, or pleading, or other
matter, or proceeding depending before the court for
scandal or impertinence, unless exceptions are taken
in writing, and signed by counsel, describing the parti
cular passages which are considered to be scandalous
or impertinent; nor unless the exceptions shall be filed
within ten days after service of the same upon the
5 I
party excepting or his counsel, and such exceptions
may be set down for hearing by either party on forty
eight hours' notice, or such other notice as the court
may direct to the opposite party.
REPLICATIONS

SEC. 46. Whenever the answer of the defendant
shall not be excepted to, or shall be adjudged or
deemed sufficient, the plaintifff shall file the general
replication thereto within ten days thereafter, unless he
shall set the cause down on bill and answer; and in all
cases where the general replication is filed, the cause
shall be deemed to all intents and purposes at issue,
without any rejoinder or other pleading on other side.
If the plaintifff shall omit or refuse to file such replica
tion within the prescribed period, the defendant shall
be entitled to a rule upon him to reply within ten days
after notice of such rule; on failure to file such repli
cation with notice to the defendant's counsel, the
plaintifff shall be deemed to have abandoned his right
to traverse the matters alleged in the answer. The
replication shall be in substance thus: “The plaintifff
joins issue on the matters alleged in the answer.”

SEC. 47. No special replication to any answer
shall be filed. But if any matter alleged in the answer
shall make it necessary for the plaintifff to amend his
bill, he may have leave to amend the same upon
motion to the court or a law judge thereof in vacation.
52
AMENDMENTS, SUPPLEMENTAL BILLS, ETC.

SEC. 48. The plaintifff shall be at liberty, as a
matter of course, to amend his bill in any matters
whatsoever, before answer or demurrer to the
bill, but he shall, without delay, give the defendant
notice of such amendment, and all rules taken by the
plaintifff in the case shall be suspended until such
notice is given.

SEC. 49. After an answer or demurrer is put in
and before replication, the plaintifff may, upon motion
or petition, without notice, obtain an order from any
law judge of the court to amend his bill within twenty
days thereafter. But after the replication filed the
plaintifff shall not be permitted to withdraw it and to
amend his bill, except upon an order of a law judge of the
court, upon motion or petition, after due notice to the
other party, and upon proof by affidavit that the same
is not made for the purpose of vexation or delay, or
that the matter of the proposed amendment is material,
and could not with reasonable diligence have been
sooner introduced into the bill, and upon the plaintifff's
submitting to such other terms as may be imposed by
the judge for speeding the cause.

SEC. 50. If the plaintifff, so obtaining any order
to amend his bill after answer, or demurrer, or after
replication, shall not file his amendments or amended
bill, as the case may require, in the prothonotary's
office, and serve a copy on the counsel of all other
parties to the cause, who appear by counsel within the
time appointed for making such amendments, he shall
53
be considered to have abandoned the same, and the
cause shall proceed as if no application for any amend
ment had been made.

SEC. 51. In every case where, after answer or
demurrer filed, an amendment of the bill is made in
such particulars as to vary the case or the grounds of
relief, the defendants shall be at liberty to demur or
answer to the amended bill or to the amendments, as
if no previous answers had been filed, and the answer
to the original bill shall not, unless the defendant fails
to put in another answer when required, be used
except as an admission of the facts therein stated, sub
ject to explanation by the answer subsequently filed.
Answers to amendments may be required at such
times as the court or a law judge upon notice shall
direct, and shall be in other respects subject to the
rules regulating answers to the original bill.

SEC. 52. After an answer is put in, it may be
amended as of course, in any matter of form, or by
filling up a blank, or correcting a date, or reference to
a document, or other small matter, and be resworn, at
any time before replication is put in, or the cause is
set down for a hearing upon bill and answer. But
after replication or such setting down for a hearing, it
shall not be amended in any material matters; as by
adding new facts or defenses, or qualifying or altering
the original statements, except by special leave of the
court or a law judge therof, upon motion and cause
shown after due notice to the adverse party, supported,
if required, by affidavit. And in every case where
54
leave is so granted, the court or the judge granting
the same may, in his discretion, require that the same
be separately engrossed and added as a distinct amend
ment to the original answer, so as to be distinguish
able therefrom.

SEC. 53. Whenever the circumstances are such as
to require a bill of revivor, supplemental bill, or bill in
the nature of either or both, or where additional or
different parties are required to be joined, the same
shall be made by way of amendment or addition to
the original bill, and copies of such amendments or
additions being served on the parties to the original
bill, or their counsel, on the record, shall entitle the
plaintifff to proceed as on an original bill, after service.
Where a new party is joined a copy of the original
bill and the amendment shall be served as is provided
for in the case of original bills. But, where the per
sonal representative of a deceased party is properly
required to be joined, it may be done by stating on
the record the fact of the death, and the grant of
letters to such representative, and by service of notice
of such statement on such representative; and the
cause, without more delay, shall proceed as if such
representative had been originally a party, allowing
him ten days to appear.
EVIDENCE

SEC. 54. An order to take the testimony of
ancient, infirm and going witnesses de óene esse before
any justice of the peace or other person, authorized by
law to take depositions in other cases, may be entered
55
by either party in the prothonotary's office of course,
at any time after the service of process, stipulating a
reasonable notice to the adverse party: so of an order
for a commission to any place within the State of Penn
sylvania, more than forty miles distant from the county
seat of the respective county, or to any other state or
territory or to foreign parts. But in case of a com
mission, the interrogatories must be filed in the pro
thonotary's office at the time, and written notice of
this last order and of the names of the commissioners
must be served on the adverse party at least fifteen
days before the commission issues, in order that he may
file cross-interrogatories, or nominate commissioners
on his part, if he shall deem it desirable: Provided,
That testimony so taken shall only be admitted on the
hearing of the cause, when the circumstances are such
as would excuse the production of such witnesses and
make admissible depositions taken de óene esse on
trials by jury in the same courts.

SEC. 55. Upon the return of any commission
executed, the same may, at the application of either
party, be opened by any one of the judges of the
court, in term time or vacation, or by the prothonotary;
and the prothonotary shall give notice to the parties
of the return of any commission, and of the filing of
depositions taken before any justice of the peace, or
other person, and the parties shall, within ten days after
service of such notice upon them respectively, enter
exceptions in writing, if they have any, to the form of
the interrogatories or the manner of the execution of
the commission, and the taking of the depositions, or
56
be thereafter precluded from the benefit of such excep
tions, which exceptions when so taken may be put
down for hearing by either party giving forty-eight
hours' notice to his adversary thereof, or such other
notice as the court may direct.

SEC. 56. The last of the interrogatories to take
testimony shall be stated in substance, thus: “Do you
know, or can you set forth any other matter or thing,
which may be a benefit or advantage to the parties
at issue in this cause, or either of them, or that may
be material to the subject of this your examination, or
the matters in question in this cause ? If yea, set forth
the same fully and at large in your answer.”

SEC. 57. All affidavits and depositions shall be
taken and expressed in the first person of the depo
nent; and shall be divided into paragraphs, and each
paragraph, as nearly as may be, confined to a distinct
portion of the subject.

SEC. 58. On all interlocutory applications, as
for an injunction, or the appointment of a receiver,
either party shall be at liberty to produce his witnesses
for examination in open court at the hearing of the
application, as to all such matters as could be proved
by their affidavits, subject to cross-examination as in
other cases, or upon reasonable notice, to require the
other party to produce his witnesses for examination
in open court, unless sufficient cause be shown to the
contrary.

SEC. 59. The office of Examiner to take testi
mony, is hereby discontinued, except in proceedings
57
conducted under the directions of a statute by which
duties are imposed upon an Examiner, as in bills to
perpetuate testimony and similar cases. All testi
mony in cases in equity shall be taken in the same
manner as is now practiced in courts of law, upon
rule, commission, letters rogatory, or in open court.
Rules may be entered for the purpose of taking testi
mony on the equity side of the several Courts of Com
mon Pleas, in the same manner, and with the same
effect, as upon the common law side of the same
COUlrtS.
TRIAL

SEC. 60. The hearing of cases in equity shall be
conducted before the Judge sitting as Chancellor, or
before a referee, and the office of Master in Chancery
is hereby discontinued, except in proceedings where
decrees or interlocutory orders are to be executed, or
their execution supervised by an officer of the court;
as in partition, the sale of real estate, the execution of
deeds and the like. When a case in equity is at issue
upon demurrer it shall be placed on the argument list
then next to be heard. When it is at issue upon
answer it shall be placed on the equity trial list.
Cases upon the trial list shall be heard in court in the
same manner that actions at law wherein trial by jury
has been waived are now heard by courts of law. The
evidence shall be given or read in open court, and
exceptions to the admission or rejection of evidence
and of witnesses, may be taken in the same manner,
and with the same effect as is now practiced in the
trial of actions at law. The Judge shall sit continu
58
ously during the trial of causes in equity in the same
manner as during the trial of actions at law.

SEC. 61. A trial in equity shall be conducted, as
nearly as may be, as a trial at law is now conducted.
When entered upon it shall not be interrupted or post
poned, except for cause shown to, and approved by,
the court or referee; and the costs of all such post
ponements shall be paid by the party at whose instance
the same may be ordered, and shall not abide the
result, or be taxed in the general bill of the success
ful party. Continuances for cause may be made where
the list is called, with or without terms, as is now prac
ticed in the courts of common law.

SEC. 62. The counsel for the respective parties
may present to the Judge, sitting as Chancellor, re
quests for findings both of fact and law. After hear
ing the evidence, and the argument of counsel, the
Judge may adopt or affirm these requests, or any of
them, qualify or deny them, or state his findings of
fact or of law in his own language. The requests so
presented, with the answers thereto, and the findings
of the Judge, both of law and fact, shall be filed by
the prothonotary, and become thereby part of the
record of the court in the said case.

SEC. 63. Upon the filing of the findings by the
Judge, the prothonotary shall enter a decree nisi in
accordance therewith, and give notice to the parties or
their counsel.

SEC. 64. Exceptions may then be filed by either
party within ten days, which exceptions shall cover
59
all objections to rulings on evidence, to findings of fact
or law, or to the decree in the case.

SEC. 65. If no exceptions be filed, all objections
shall be deemed to be waived and a final decree en
tered by the prothonotary as of course.

SEC. 66. If exceptions shall be filed, they shall
be heard upon the argument list as upon a rule for
new trial, and the judge or the court in banc shall
have power to sustain or dismiss any of such excep
tions and confirm, modify or change the decree accord
ingly.

SEC. 67. Upon appeal to the Supreme or Super
ior Court such matters only as have been so excepted
to and finally passed upon by the court, shall be as
signable for error. SEC. 68. If the judge or referee upon the close
of complainant's evidence shall be of opinion that the
case made in the bill has not been sustained he shall
have power to enter a decree of dismissal without
hearing evidence on behalf of the defendant. Such
decree shall have the effect of a non-suit at law. But
a refusal of the court, after motion and argument, to
change the decree shall be considered a final decree for
all purposes.
REFEREES

SEC. 69. When a case in equity is at issue upon
answer it may be taken from the list by the parties,
and its trial referred to a person agreed upon by them,
6O
who shall be called a “referee.” He shall proceed at
once upon his appointment to fix a day for trial, which
shall not be more than three months after his said
appointment ; at which time, unless the cause be con
tinued, he shall proceed to hear the parties, and sit
from day to day, continuously for that purpose. He
shall hear the testimony, seal bills of exceptions to the
admission and rejection of evidence, make findings of
fact and of law, act upon the points or requests that
may be presented by counsel, and prepare the form
for a final decree. When his findings and decree are
ready, he shall give notice to counsel for the respective
parties, of a time and place, when and where the same
may be examined by them. If no exceptions be filed
within ten days after the day fixed for such examina
tion, the referee shall deliver to the prothonotary his
findings, the requests of counsel, and the form of
decree prepared, who shall file the same, and there
upon the court shall enter the decree prepared by the
referee. If exceptions be filed the referee shall hear
them within ten days thereafter; and within ten days
after such hearing, decide upon the same and file said
exceptions, his action thereon, together with his original
findings, the requests of counsel, and the form of a
decree with the prothonotary of the court. At any
time within ten days after this is done exceptions may
be taken to the action of the referee and filed with the
prothonotary. The case shall thereupon be placed
upon the equity argument list next to be heard in said
court, and the exceptions heard by the court or judge
acting as Chancellor in the case, and disposed of;
whereupon the proper decree shall be made and
6 f
entered, subject to the right of appeal to the Supreme
or Superior Court, as provided by law.
FEES

SEC. 70. The fees of referees shall be adjusted
upon a statement of the number of days actually
occupied with the trial and the preparation of the find
ings and decree. Parts of days on which the parties
met and adjourned shall not be included. For days
actually spent in the trial and disposition of the case
a per diem shall be allowed, to be fixed by the court in
which the cause is pending, upon consideration of the
character of the labor actually performed, but in no
case to exceed twenty dollars per day. The referee
shall state separately the number of days occupied in
the trial, and those occupied in preparing the findings
and decree. For parts of days on which meetings
and adjournments have taken place the referee shall
be allowed five dollars each, to be paid by the party
at whose instance the adjournment may be made, and
not otherwise.
ASSESSORS

SEC. 71. In cases involving complicated accounts,
or questions requiring the aid of experts, if the parties
do not refer, the court may call in the aid of an
accountant or other expert, as an assessor. The
charges to be allowed for such services shall not exceed
the rate per diem commonly paid by business men for
similar services, and shall be taxed as costs in the case,
or paid as the court may direct.
62
TRIAL BY JURY

SEC. 72. After a case in equity is at issue upon
questions of fact, either party may move a rule upon
the other party to show cause, on five days' notice,
why the issues of fact, or some of them, shall not be
tried before a jury. If on the return of the rule, such
trial be awarded, the court shall frame the issues in the
form of separate questions. The verdict rendered
shall not be general, but shall consist of an answer to:
each question so submitted. These answers, made to
inform the conscience of the Chancellor, shall not be
binding upon him in any case.
TRIAL AND ARGUMENT LISTS

SEC. 73. The preparation of trial and argument
lists shall be regulated by an order of the several
courts, so as to make the practice in regard thereto
conform as nearly as may be practicable to the practice
in the said courts in actions at law.
INTERLOCUTORY ORDERS, GENERALLY

SEC. 74. Any law judge in vacation or in term,
may at chambers make interlocutory orders, rules, and
other proceedings preparatory to the hearing of causes
upon their merits, in the same manner and with the
same effect as the court in term, reasonable notice of
the same being first given to the adverse party or his
solicitor, to appear and show cause to the contrary, at
such time thereafter as shall be assigned by the judge
for the hearing thereof.
63

SEC. 75. All motions, rules, orders, and other
proceedings made and directed at chambers or at the
prothonotary's office, whether special or of course,
shall be entered by the prothonotary in his docket, on
the day on which they are made and directed, and
notice thereof given to the solicitors shall be deemed
notice to the parties for whom they appear and whom
they represent, in all cases in which personal notice on
the parties is not otherwise specially required. The
docket shall be kept by the prothonotary at his office,
and shall be open at all office hours to the free inspec
tion of the parties in any suit in equity, and their
solicitors. All notices shall be in writing.

SEC. 76. All motions and applications in the pro
thonotary's office for the issuing of mesne and final
process (except process of sequestration and of at
tachment to enforce and execute decrees;) for filing bills,
answers, demurrers, and other pleadings; for making
amendments to bills and answers; for taking bills pro
confesso; for filing exceptions, and for other proceed
ings which do not require allowance or order of the
court, or of a judge thereof, shall be deemed motions
and applications grantable of course by the prothono
tary of the court; but the same may be suspended,
altered, or rescinded by any law judge of the court
upon cause shown.

SEC. 77. All motions for rules or orders, and
other proceedings which are not grantable of course,
or without notice, shall be made on application to the
court or a law judge at chambers, and entered in the
docket, and shall be heard at such time thereafter as
64
shall be assigned therefore by the court or judge at the
time of the making the application; and if the adverse
party or his solicitor, after notice thereof, shall not
then appear, or shall not show good cause against the
same, the motion may be heard by any law judge of
the court, ex parte, and granted, as if not objected to,
or refused, in his discretion.

SEC. 78. No order allowing further time shall be
made without written notice of the application for such
order to the counsel on record of the opposite party;
and any order which does not recite such notice, or that
the counsel attended at the hearing may be disre
garded.

SEC. 79. In the city of Philadelphia all rules or
orders as to pleadings which, according to the time
prescribed in the foregoing rules, would otherwise
expire on any day of the month of July and August,
shall be deemed and taken to expire on the same day
of the month of September following.

SEC. 8O. If, on any interlocutory proceeding, a
party shall be ordered to pay the costs thereof, such
costs shall be taxed by the prothonotary, and payment
thereof may be enforced by attachment and seques
tration, or the party to whom the said costs are
directed to be paid may, at his option, have a common
law writ of execution for the recovery thereof; and
the party against whom such order is made shall not
be allowed to take any further steps in the cause until
payment of such costs.
65
INJUNCTIONS

SEC. 81. Preliminary injunctions may be granted,
in accordance with the present practice, on bill and
injunction affidavits; but upon the hearing, at the end
of five days, or such other time as may be fixed, the
evidence must be taken subject to cross-examination,
and ex parte affidavits will not be received. Witnesses
may be examined orally before the judge, or testimony
may be taken on short rule, or, when necessary, testi
mony may be taken before any person authorized to
administer an oath, on notice to the other side to
appear and cross-examine. In cases where testimony
is taken on notice alone, the certificate of counsel that
he had not sufficient time to enter and serve a rule,
shall stand in lieu of such formal entry and service.
But defendant may move to dissolve at any time with
out waiting for the expiration of the five days.

SEC. 82. Cautionary orders in injunction bills
shall not be made, nor shall any injunction be allowed
except security be given according to law. But when
ever an injunction shall be granted without previous
notice to the opposite party, it shall be taken to be
dissolved if the motion be not argued within five days
after such notice given, unless otherwise specially
ordered by the court or a law judge thereof.
DECREES AND FINAL PROCESS

SEC. 83. No part of the prior proceedings shall
be recited or stated at length in any decree or order;
but decrees and orders shall begin in substance as fol
lows: “This cause came on to be heard (or to be
66
further heard, as the case may be) at this term, and
was argued by counsel, and upon consideration thereof,
it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed as follows, viz.:”
(Here insert the decree or order.)

SEC. 84. The decree shall be drawn by the so
licitor of the party in whose favor it is, who shall,
unless otherwise herein provided, serve a copy thereof
on the solicitor of the adverse party, with notice of
the time, which shall not be less than three days there
after, when the same will be submitted to the court;
but the court may direct the decree to be entered
forthwith, without further notice, upon the same being
pronounced, should they think the justice of the case
requires it, or when the solicitor of the opposite party
is present and does not object to the form thereof. If
the opposite party, where notice is required to be
given to him, shall not deem such draft of decree in
conformity with the intentions of the court, he may
file exceptions thereto before the day of hearing desig
nated in such notice, which shall be submitted with
the draft of the decree on the day so appointed, and
thereupon, the court approving of the draft, or cor
recting the same in conformity with such exceptions,
or otherwise, the prothonotary shall enter it in his
docket, and from thenceforth it shall be the act and
decree of the court.

SEC. 85. If the decree or order be merely for the
payment of money, the party in whose favor it is made
shall be entitled to have a minute thereof (without
waiting for the draft of a more formal decree) entered
in the docket and placed in the usual form of entering
67
judgments in the judgment index of the common law
side of the court.

SEC. 86. Unless otherwise provided by law or by
these rules, or specially ordered by the court, a writ of
attachment, and if the defendant cannot be found, or
it may be otherwise thought proper by the court, a
writ of sequestration or a writ of assistance to enforce
a delivery of possession, as the case may require, shall
be the proper process to issue for the purpose of com
pelling obedience to any interlocutory or final order or
decree of the court; but the same shall not be issued,
unless upon motion and allowance by the court or a
law judge thereof.

SEC. 87. When any decree or order is for the
delivery of possession, upon proof made by affidavit
of a demand and refusal to obey the decree or order,
the party prosecuting the same shall be at liberty to
apply forthwith to the court or to a law judge, for an
order for a writ of assistance, upon the allowance of
which the prothonotary shall immediately issue the
Sanne.

SEC. 88. Final process to execute any decree may,
if the decree be solely for the payment of money, be by a
writ of execution, in the form used in the same court in
suits at common law in actions of assumpsit. If the
decree be for the performance of any specific act, as, for
example, for the execution of a conveyance of land or
delivering up of deeds or other documents, the decree
shall prescribe the time within which the act shall be
done, of which the defendant shall be bound, without
68
further service, to take notice; and upon affidavit of
the plaintifff, filed in the prothonotary's office, that the
same has not been complied with, the court, if sitting,
or any law judge during vacation, may direct the issu
ing of a writ of attachment against the delinquent
party, from which, if attached thereon, he shall not be
discharged unless upon a full compliance with the
decree and the payment of costs, or upon a special
order of the court or of a law judge thereof, upon
motion and affidavit, enlarging the time for the per
formance thereof. If the delinquent party cannot be
found, a writ of sequestration may, upon motion, be
ordered by the court or a law judge thereof, to be
issued against his estate upon the return of non est in
ventus, to compel obedience to the decree.

SEC. 89. Every person not being a party in any
cause, who has obtained an order, or in whose favor
an order shall have been made, shall be enabled to en
force obedience to such order by the same process as
if he were a party to the cause ; and every person not
being a party to the cause against whom obedience to
an order of the court may be enforced, shall be liable
to the same process for enforcing obedience to such
order, as if he were a party in the cause.

SEC. 90. Clerical mistakes in decrees or decretal
orders, or errors arising from any accidental slip or
omission, may be corrected by order of the court or a
law judge thereof, upon petition, without the form or
expense of a rehearing.
69
REHEARING

SEC. 91. Every petition for a rehearing shall
contain the special matter or cause on which such
rehearing is applied for, shall be signed by counsel,
and the facts therein stated, if not apparent on the
record, shall be verified by the oath of the party, or by
some other person. A rehearing may be granted at
any time within the discretion of the court; but where
the decree has been executed, parties who have acted
on the faith of such decree shall not be prejudiced by
such decree being reversed or varied.
APPEALS

SEC. 92. Whenever an appeal shall be taken
from an order or decree in equity the appellant shall
file in the court below, with his notice of appeal, a
brief statement of the errors he alleges to have been
made by the order or decree appealed from or the
findings on which it rests. No other errors shall be
assigned in the Appellate Court unless leave be
granted on motion, and notice to the other party. If
the reasons for the appeal do not affect the whole
decree, and its enforcement, as to so much as is not
complained of, is not inconsistent with the relief asked
on appeal, leave may be granted to proceed as to that
part of the decree, notwithstanding the appeal.
GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 93. The courts may make any other and
further rules and regulations for the practice, proceed
70
ings and process, mesne, and final, in their respective
districts, not inconsistent with the rules hereby pre
scribed, in their discretion, and from time to time alter
and amend the same.

SEC. 94. In all cases when these rules or those
prescribed by other courts do not apply, the practice
of the courts shall be regulated by the present practice
of the high court of chancery in England, so far as the
same may reasonably be applied consistently with the
local circumstances and local convenience of the dis
trict where the court is held, not as positive rules, but
as furnishing just analogies to regulate the practice.

