SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General ﬂssemblg, and
by the authority thereof it is enacted, That the supreme
judicial court and courts of common pleas shall have
power to issue writs of habeas co us to bring into court
any person imprisoned under the aws of this State, who
is a party or a witness in any suit pending in such court,
and shall also have power to issue writs o scire facias in
all cases prescribed~by law, and writs of protection against
arrests in civil actions, for all parties and witnesses in
any cause gending before them, whenever the same shall
be require .
Sec. 2. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That all actions in the
supreme judicial court and courts of common pleas,brought there originally, or by appeal or review, shall be
; tered on the ﬁrst or second day of the term, and not af
‘ ards, without special leave of the court, which they
are hereby empowered to grant in their discretion, in case
the party who brought the action to the same court, and
whose duty it was to enter it, was prevented from so do
ing by mistake, inevitable accident or misfortune.
Sec. 3. ./9nd be it further enacted, That in every indictment,
and in every warrant or other process to arrest the
body of any person, in a criminal suit, and in every writ
of arrest, or original summons in a civil action, there shall
be added to the name of the person against whom the
same shall be issued, the place to which he shall,_at the
time of ﬁnding such indictment, or issuing such writ,
summons, warrant or other process, belong, or the place
in which he is or of late was commorant; and also his
degree or mystery: and in case such additions shall be
omitted in any such indictment, writ, summons, warrant or
other process, the same upon exception being taken thereto by the erson with res ect to whom such omission
shall be m e, shall be quas ed or abated: Provided, That
nothing therein contained shall prevent the amendment of
any civil process in the manner by this act rescribed.
Sec. 4. ﬁnd be it urther enacted, That it s all and may
be lawful for any efendant in any action or suit, or for
. . . . . .
any plaintifff in replevm, m any court, with leave of the
same court, to plead as many several matters thereto, as
he shall think necessary to his defense.
Sec. 5. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That the defendant in
all actions of debt, actions of covenant, and in all actions
of the case, grounded on an express or implied contract,
that may be ending before any court of common pleas, or
a justice of t e peace, shall have a right to bring into court
the money which he shall acknowledge to be due thereon,
together with the plaintifff’s lawful costs in such suit to
that time; and the plaintifff shall have a right to take the
same in full, or in art satisfaction of the demand made
in such suit; but if e shall receive the same in part sat
isfaction only, and shall proceed further in the same suit,
and the court, or jury, or justice of the peace, who shall
ﬁnally assess the damages in such case, shall determine
that no more was due on the demand made in such suit,
than was brought mto court as aforesaid, at the time the
same Was brought in, the plaintifffshall not recover costs,
but shall be obliged to pay the defendant his costs, after
the money was brought into court as aforesaid.
SE0. 6. ﬂnd be it further enacted, That in all actions.
trespass for breaking and entering the plaintifff's cl ,
wherein the defendant shall, in zhis plea, disclaim all
right, title and interest to the land, in which the trespass
is by the declaration supposed to be done, and the tres
pass be by negligence, or involuntary, the defendant shall
be admitted to plead a disclaimer, and that the trespass
was done by negligence, or involuntarily, and a tender or
olfer of suﬂicient amends for such trespass, before the
action brought; or the defendant may have leave to
bring money into court to satisfy the damages the plain
tilf has sustained; and in case the jury shall not assess
larger damages for the trespass, than the money tender
ed, or brou t into court, the defendant shall recover of
the plainti his reasonable costs.
Sec. 7. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That when any action
of debt shall be brought upon any single bill, or when an
action of debt, or writ of scire facias, shall be brought
upon any judgment, if the defendant hath paid the money
- due upon such bill or Judgment, such payment shall and
may be pleaded in bar of such action or suit; and when
an action of debt is brought upon any bond, which hath
a condition or defeazance to make void the same, upon
the payment of a less sum at aday or place certain, if the
obligor, his heirs, executors or administrators have, be
fore the action brought, paid to the obligee, his executors
or administrators, the principal and interest due by the
defeazance or condition of such bond, though such pay
ment was not made strictly according to the condition or
defeazance, yet it shall and may nevertheless he pleaded
in bar of such action, and shall be as effectual a bar
thereof as if the money had been paid at the day and
place, according to the condition or defeazance, and had
been so pleaded.
Sec. 8. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That when an action
shall be brought to recover a debt due on any book account,
the plaintifff shall annex to his declaration, on ﬁling the same, an account of particulars; and the defendant in such case, and also in all actions on an account stat
ed by the parties, a quantum meruit, quantum valebat, or
for goods sold, or services done at an agreed price, may
lead the general issue, and may ﬁle any account he
fiath in the clerk’s office, at the time of ﬁling his said
plea; and the court or jury who shall assess the damages
in such case, shall determine the balance due to
either party, and the party in whose favor the balance
shall be found, shall recover judgment therefore, together
with his costs, and shall have execution accordingly.
Sec. 9. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That whenever the
supreme judicial court or courts of common pleas shall
at the same term render final judgment in two or more
causes in which the parties shall be reversed, and shall
sue and be sued in the same right and capacity, such
court shall offset the same judgments, and issue execu
tion for the balance in favor of the party to whom it shall
be due.
Sec. 10. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That if any oﬁicer
shall at the same time have two or more executions in
personal actions directed to him to serve, in which theparties shall be reversed, and shall sue and be sued in
the same ri ht and capacity, he shall offset the same, and
levy and co lect the balance only, from the party from
whom it shall be due.
' Sec. 1]. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That in all actions
brought to recover the forfeiture annexed to any articles
of agreement, covenant, contract, or charter-party, bond,
obligation or other specialty, when the forfeiture, breach
or non-performance shall be found by jury, by the defaultor the confession of the defendant, or upon demurrer, the
court before whom the action shall be pending, shall ren
der judgment therein for so much as shall be due accord
mg to equity and good conscience, to be ascertained by
the court, with or without the intervention of ajury.
Sac. 12. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That in all actions up
on any bond, or for any penal sum for non-performance
of covenants or agreements in ﬂany indenture, deed or
writin , the laintiff or lainti s may assign as many
breacﬁes as hi or they shiill think fit; and the jury upon
the trial of such action or actions, shall and may assess
damages for such of the breaches as the lainhff shall
prove to have been made, and on such ver ict the court
shall render judgment accordingly; and where judgment
on a demurrer, or by default, shall be given for the plain
tifﬁ he may assihgn 8: {palrliy llngataches (3; the coyenants gr
a reements as e s a t in , an e cour may, y
tfiemselves, or through the intervention of a jury, assess
the damages the plaintifff hath sustained, and execution
shall issue for so much; and such judgment shall remam
as a security for the plaintiffli his executors and adminis
trators, for any other breaches WhlCh may afterwards
happen; and he or they may have a writ 0 sure facias
against the defendant, and assign any other breachior
breaches, and damages shall be assessed and execution
issued as aforesaid.
Sec. 13. ﬂnd be it further enacted, That in all cases in the
supreme judicial court and courts of_ common pleas, when
ju gment shall be rendered on default, discontinuance,
submission or demurrer, damages shall be assessed by the
court with or without the intervention of a jury, at the
discretion of such court.
Sec. 14. ./Ind be it further enacted, That in all cases_re
latin to the realty, either party mlayllhgve 5; jury to Vl}:3W
the ace in uestion, if the court s a e 0 opinion t_at
sucff view isqnecessary to the justice of the trial; provid
ed the part moving therefore shall advance such reason
able sum of!money to the jury as the court shall order,
which shall be taxed a ainst the advherse party, if he who
advances the same sha l prevail in t e suit.
Sec. 15. ./9nd be it further enacted, That the su reme ju
dicial court and courts of common pleas shall ave pow
er to permit the parties in any suit pending in sand courts
res ectively, to enter into a rule of such court to refer
such suit to the decision of one or more referees,_to be
agreed upon by the said parties, and also to refer, in the
same rule, any other demands that may subsist between
them, either jointly or severally, generally or specially.
And the said courts shall also have power to permit any
persons, who may have any dispute subsisting between
them, respecting any real or personal estate, including all
debts, dues, demands and causes of action of every kmd,
to enter into a rule of such court, to refer the same to the
decision of referees as aforesaid, generally or specially.
And the parties to any rule shall have power to a ree up
on the time and manner of making report, and o issuing
execution on the judgment that may be rendered thereon,
consistently with law; and every such agreement made
in manner aforesaid, shall be conclusive upon the parties,
and the court shall render judgment upon the report of
referees conformably thereto, and issue execution accord
ingly: Provided nevertheless, That the court may at any
time, in their discretion, on motion of either arty, dis
charge the rule, or recommit the said rule and) report to
the same referees; but such rule shall remain in full force,
until so discharged, and shall be continued from term to
term until the report shall be made thereon: And
each referee before he proceeds to the business of the
reference, shall take an oath or aﬂirmation faithfully
and impartially to hear and examine the cause, and make
a true and just report, according to the best of his skill
and understanding; which oath may be taken before any
judge of any court of record, or any justice of the peace;
and the referees aforesaid shall have power to administer
oaths or aﬂirmations to all witnesses, in any matter tried
before them; and shall also have power to compel the attendance of witnesses before them, in the same manner
and by a similar process as courts of record are authorized
to compel the attendance of witnesses.
Sec. 16. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That the parties to any
suit that may be pending before any justice of the peace,
shall have a right to enter into a rule to refer the same,
and to include therein any other demands between them,
not exceeding in the whole, on either side, the amount of
twenty dollars, and in which the title to real estate shall
not be concerned; and the justices shall have like power,
and similar proceedin s shall be had thereon, mutatis mu
iandis, as are given and prescribed in this act respecting
rules that may be entered in the courts of common pleas.
Sec. 17. ﬁnd be itfurther enacted, That no summons, writ,
. .
declaration, return, process, Judgment, or other proceeding in civil causes, in any of the courts within this State,
shall be abated, arrested, quashed or reversed, for any defeet or want of form; but the said courts respectively
shall proceed and give judgment according as the right of
the cause and matter in law shall appear unto them, with
out regarding any imperfections, defects or want of form.
in such writ, declaration, or other pleadings, return, pro
cess, judgment, or cause of proceeding whatsoever ; and
the said courts respectively shall and may,by virtue of this
act, from time to time, amend all and every such imper
fections, defects and want of form, and may at any time.
except on a review, permit either of the parties to amend
any defect in the process or pleadings, upon such condi
tions as the said courts respectively shall, in their discre
tion, and by their rules, prescribe.
Sac. 18. ./ind be it further enacted, That if any writ or pro
cess shall be hereafter brought against any trading or man
ufacturing company (not incorporated) and the name or
names of either of the parties shall be omitted therein,
the said writ or process shall not be thereby abated; but
in case the same is pleaded, a summons shall issue to the
partner or partners thus omitted, which shall be served at
least twenty days before trial, who may come in and de
fend in the same manner as though he, she or they had
been originally made parties to the suit; and if the person
or persons thus summoned, refuse or neglect to appeanhisI
her or their names shall be inserted in the process by the
court, and judgment (if the plaintifff recovers) shall be en
tered up against him, her or them, jointly with the other
partners. Sec. 19. ./dud be itfurther enacted, That when several per
sons shall be made defendants in an action of trespass or
ejectment, and the same shall be discontinued as to any
one or more of said defendants, or if upon the trial there
of any one or more of them shall be acquitted by verdict;
or upon a demurrer, every defendant so acquitted shall
have and recover his costs.
Sec. 20. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That the plaintifff in any
cause shall not have a right to be nonsuit, or to discon
tinue the same in the supreme judicial court, after the
cause shall be submitted to the decision of the jury; but
the cause shall proceed, and the verdict of the jury shall
be taken therein, whether the plaintifff shall appear or
not.
Sec. 21. ./1nd be it further enacted, That if there shall in
any case be two or more plaintifffs or defendants, and one
or more of them shall die, if the cause of action shall sur
vive to the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, or against the
surviving defendant or defendants, the writ or action shall
not be thereby abated, but such death being suggested
upon the record, the action shall proceed at the suit o
the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, or against the survi
ving defendant or defendants.
Sec. 22. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That the appellant
shall in all cases ﬁle his reasons of appeal in the clerk’
otﬁce of the court appealed to, at least ten days before
the sitting of such court, and shall, at the time of enterin
his appeal, ﬁle in the clerk’s otﬁce of the court appealed
to, a certiﬁed copy of the whole case: Provided however
That whenever any party who shall appeal to the cour
of common pleas, court of general sessions of the peace,
or supreme judicial court, shall through mistake, accident
or misfortune, omit to ﬁle his reasons of appeal, at the
time prescribed as aforesaid, the said courts respectively,
in their discretion, on sutﬁcient cause being shewn there
for, may, on the ﬁrst or second day of the term of the court
appealed to, permit such party to ﬁle his reasons of ap
peal in court, on such terms as they shall prescribe.
Sec. 23. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That if the appellant in
any case shall enter his appeal at the court appealed to,
the cause shall be tried and decided in the same manner
as if both parties had appealed ; and if the appellant shall
neglect to enter his appeal, as by law required, the adverse party, in case he did not also appeal, may, at any
time during the term, enter his complaint to the court ap
pealed to, and obtain a conﬁrmation of the former jud ment,
with interest, if damages were therein given, and ad
ditional costs.
Sec. 24. ./Qndbe ilfurthcr enacted, That if any party shall
obtain a new trial in any cause, by act or order of thepeneral assembly, and shall neglect to enter such action
or trial on the ﬁrst or second day of the court at whichsuch trial is to be had by such act or order, the adverse
party may enter his complaint, and the said court shall
thereupon atﬁrm the last udgment rendered in said cause,
with interest, if damages or debt were therein recovered,
and additional costs.
Sec. 25. ./Qndbe ztfurlhcr enabled, That if the plaintiﬂ'in
any case shall ﬁle l1lS or her declaration in the clerk’s of
ﬁce of the court of common pleas, as by law provided, and
shall afterwards withdraw or discontinue his or her suit,
before the sittin of the court and after answer ﬁled, the
defendant in suc case shall recover his cost; and in all
other civil causes the party prevailing shall recover cost,
except in cases where other provision is specially made
bylaw; and all bills of cost shall be taxed by the clerks
of the respective courts, and shall be examined and allow
ed by one of the justices thereof, except that in justices‘I
courts they shall be taxed and allowed by the justice who
 
signed the original writ; and the clerk’s fees in the case
shall be paid before the execution shall be issued; and
the justice of any court who shall examine and allow any
bill of cost, shall have power in his discretion to strike out
and disallow any sum that may be taxed or demanded
for the expence of any witness, or any evidence whatsoev
er, that shall appear to such justice to be frivolous, or not
material t0~the issue of the cause; and no cost shall be al
lowed for any written evidence unless the fees be noted
thereon by the officer who issued or made out the same.
Sec. 26. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That in all actions of
the case for slanderous words, or malicious prosecutions,
all actions of trespass, for assault and battery, or impris
onment, that shall hereafter be commenced to any court
of common pleas within this State, if the court or jury who
shall ﬁnally assess the damages in such case, shall assess
the same at a less sum than seven dollars, the plaintiffin
such case shall recover no more costs than damages.
Sec. 27. ﬁnd be it urther enacted, That in all cases of ac
quittal, as well as o conviction, of any person, on criminal
process, the costs accrued on the part of the State shall
be paid out of the general treasury ; except in case of con
viction, if the person convicted shall pay such costs, the
same shall be disposed of by the sheriff, to whom the same
shall be paid, to the persons entitled thereto.
Sec. 28. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That any one of the
justices of the supreme judicial court or courts of com
mon pleas respectively, shall have power to adjourn such
courts from day to day, in case a quorum is not formed on
the day appointed by law for holding thereof, or on the
day to which such courts may be adjourned, until a quo'
rum shall be formed; and the clerks of the several courts
are hereby vested with similar powers, to adjourn the
same courts respectively, in case one of the ustices there
of, shall not attend for that purpose: Provided, That such
courts shall not be adjourned from day to day, by one jus
tice or the clerks as aforesaid, for more than six days.
Sec. 29. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That whenever it shall
happen that a quorum of the supreme judicial court, or
any court of common pleas in any county, cannot proba
bly convene within six days from the time by law appoint
ed for holding the same, by reason of the death or sick
ness of any of the justices of such court, or any other
necessary and unavoidable let or hindrance of their at
tendance, it shall be lawthl for any one of the justices of
such court respectively, at any time within said six days,
by writ under his hand and seal, directed to the sheriff
of the county, therein inserting the occasion thereof, to
adjourn the said court to a further day, as in said writ
shall be expressed, at as little distance of time as may be
from the day wherein by law the court should have met,
so that justice may not be delayed, and the sheritﬂ upon
the recei t of said writ, shall cause publication to be
made of t e same, at the usual place of said court’s sit
ting, and some other of the most public places within the
same county; and also cause a notiﬁcation of such ad
journment, and the time to which it is made, to be post
ed up at or near the house or place where said court
used to sit, and other public places as aforesaid, to the
intent that unnecessary travel, charge and attendance of
all persons concerned, may be prevented : and the sherif
shall return such writ, with his doin s thereon, into the
clerk’s oﬂice of such court: and all pleas, writs, actions,
suits, processes, precepts, recognizances and other things
whatsoever, returnable or havmg day in the said court,shall stand, abide and continue unto the said adjournment,
and be holden, deemed and ad'udged to be as good, effect
ual and available in law, to all intents, constructions and
purposes, as if such court had been holden and kept on
the day appointed b law for holding the same, and no
adjournment thereo had been made.
Sec. 30. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That if the supreme
judicial court, or court of common pleas, shall not be
holden at the time appointed by law for holding the same,
or to which the same may be adjourned as by this act
provided, all the business of every kind and nature that
might have been pending‘at such court, shall be heard,
proceeded upon and determined, at the next term of such
court, in the same manner as it might have been heard,
proceeded upon and determined, at the term which was
to have been, but was not holden as aforesaid.
Sec. 31. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That each grand and
petit juror, before his acting as such, shall take the followin
oath or aﬂirmation, viz: “ You solemnly swear,
(or a rm,) that as foreman of the grand inquest for the
body of the county of you shall diligently en
quire, and true presentment make, of all such breaches of
law as shall come to your knowledge; the State’s coun
sel, your fellows and your own, shall keep secret; you
shall present no person for envy, hatred, or malice, nei
ther shall you leave any person unpresented for love, fear,
favor, affection or hope of reward; but you shall present
things truly as they come to your knowledge, according
to the best of your understanding: so help you God ! or
this affirmation you make and give upon peril of the pen
alty of erjury.” “ The same oath whic your foreman
hath t en, you, and each of you, on your behalf, shall
well and truly observe and keep: so help you God! or
this affirmation you make and give upon peril of the pen
alty of perjury.” “ You swear, (or a.flirm,) that you will
well and truly try, and true deliverance make, between
the state of Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations,
and the prisoner (or defendant) at the bar, according to
law and the evidence 'ven you: so help you God! or
this affirmation you m e and give upon peril of the pen
alty of perjury.” “ You swear, (or afiirm,) that in all
cases between party and party, that shall be committed
unto you, you will give a true verdict therein, according
to law, and the evidence given you: so help you God!
or this affirmation you make and give upon peril of the
penalty of perjury.”
Sec. 32. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That any inhabitant of
any town in this State shall be a competent witness in
any cause, either civil or criminal, in which the town to
which he belongs, or in which he may own any estate,
shall be interested, as well for as against such town ; pro
vided he hath no other interest in such cause than as an
inhabitant of such town, or as owning an estate therein,
and is not otherwise legally disqualiﬁed.
Sec. 33. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That no judge of any
court or justice of the peace shall sit in judgment in any
cause brought to any court by appeal, in which he shall
have before sitten as a judge or justice.
Sec. 34. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That the clerks of the
several courts shall, in the record of every judgment, re
cite thc substance of the declaration and pleadings in such
case.
» Sec. 35. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That no execution
shall be issued on any judgment rendered in the supreme
judicial court, or any court of common pleas, until the
expiration of ﬁve days next after the rising of the court
at which such judgment shall be rendered; and every
execution issued from either of the said courts, shall be
made returnable to the next succeeding term thereof, and
shall be returned, by the oﬂicer charged therewith, withinﬁve days from the day appointed by law for the sitting
of the court from whence it issued; and if such officer
shall not return the same within that time, he shall be lia
ble therefore, as by law prescribed.
Sec. 36. And be it further enacted, That the representative
of one jointly bound with another for the payment of
any debt, or for performance or forbearance of an act, or
for any other thing, and dying in the lifetime 0 the latter, may be charged by virtue of such obligation, in the
same manner as such representative might have been
charged, if the obli ors had been bound severally as well
as jointly: Provide however, That the creditor shall ﬁrst
pursue the surviving debtor to ﬁnal judgment and execu
tion.
Sec. 37. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That all ersons appealing
from any judgment given at any of tlEe courts of
common pleas in this State, to the supreme judicial court,
upon any bond for money, or upon any romissory note
for money, whether interest be expressed to be payable
in the same or not, shall pay down the costs of the court
of common pleas, and give bond to prosecute the appeal
so made; and if the appellee in such case shall recover
therein at the supreme judicial court, he shall also recover double cost at such supreme judicial court, and also
double interest on the debt, from the court of common
pleas appealed from, to the term of the supreme judicial
court at which such judgment shall be rendered.
 
. . . . . .
ﬁn act grantmg Revzews an Cwzl ﬂctzons.
SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General ﬂssembly, and by
the authority thereof it is enacted, That either party aggrieved at the judgment of the supreme judicial court in any
suit, in which one judgment only shall have been given
against him, may at any time within one year review the
same, and have one trial more in the same court; and on
such review there shall be no further pleadings, but the
cause shall be tried on the issue appearing on the record
to have been originally joined by t e parties; and the ex
ecution upon such judgment given in the supreme judicial
court shall not be stayed by such review, unless a bond
shall be given as is in this act provided; and each party
shall have the liberty to offer any further evidence : and
when either party shall bring a writ of review, and enter
the same, the whole cause shall be tried, as if no judgment
had been iven therein; and the former judgment may
be reversed in whole, or in part, or greater damages or
less, or no damages, may be given, as the merits of the
cause, upon law and evidence, shall require, in the same
manneras though both parties had brought their writs of
review.
Sec. 2. ﬂnd be it further enacted, That when there are
several plaintiﬁis or defendants entitled to a review, and
any one or more of them die, the survivor or survivors
shall have a right to bring and prosecute such writ in his
or their own name or names, suggesting therein the death
of the deceased plaintifff or defendant; and if such de
ceased defendant or defendants shall have paid the dam
ages and costs recovered in the former judgment, or. any
part thereof, the executors or administrators of such de
ceased defendant or defendants shall have a right to
join with the surviving defendant or defendants in bring
ing a writ of review in their own right; and such execu
tors or administrators shall have a right to recover in
said right, whatever their testator or intestate shall have
lost thereby, and jud ment shall be rendered and execu
tion issued according y: and the executors or adminis
trators of such deceased defendant, in case the surviving
defendant shall refuse to prosecute such writ, may pros
ecute the same in their own names, suggestin therein
the refusal of such survivor, and shall have a rig t to re
cover the damages and cost paid by their testator or in
testate to their use, in their said capacities: and where
there are several original defendants against whom joint
damages shall be given, and any one or more of them
shall review the cause, the writ shall be taken out in
the name of the whole; and if any of them shall not ap
pear, the rest shall have a right to prosecute such writ in
their own names, and to obtain judgment for all they shall
have lost by the judgment reviewed, or such part thereof
as law and ustice shall require : and when several dam
ages are given against several defendants, each one of
them shall have a right to review the cause in the same
manner as if he was sole defendant, and shall have a
right to obtain restoration of all he has lost by the judg
ment reviewed: and whenever there is more than one
writ of review of the same cause brought to the same
court, the whole shall be tried by the jury.at the same
time: and in all actions brought to recover the posses
sion of real estate, the heir at law or devisee of any testa
tor or intestate shall have a right to review the same, in
the same manner that executors and administrators are
authorized to review personal actions; and the like ro
ceedings shall be had thereon, mutatis mutandis, un ess
the estate of such testator and intestate is represented
insolvent, in which case the executors or admmistrators
shall have a right to review the same in manner afore
said.
Sec. 3. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That if any original
defendant or defendants entitled to a review, his or their
agent, or attorney, shall, at the time of entering up judg
ment a ainst such defendant or defendants, give bond
with suécient suret or sureties to the adverse party, to
the satisfaction of t e court, with condition to prosecute
a writ of review of the same action with effect, at the next
supreme judicial court to be holden for the same county,
and to pay to the original plaintifff or plaintifffs the dam
ages, goods or chattels recovered, with lawful interest
from the time of makin up such judgment, with costs, in
case such judgment sha be affirmed "1 whole or in part,
or if the judgment shall be in detinue or replevin for any
goods or chattels, then to pay all such damages as the jury
shall assess for the detention, with costs, if the former
damages are affirmed in whole or in part; in every such
case execution shall he stayed on the judgment whereof
such review is had.
Sec. 4. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That all actions of re
view shall be brought to the court to be holden within
one year from the time of rendering the judgment to be
reviewed; and the writ or summons of review shall be
taken out and served thirty days before the sittin of the
court to which the action of review shall be broug t, and
-the reasons of such review shall be in such writ contain
ed; saving to infants, feme coverts, persons non compos
mentis, or beyond sea, one year after such impediments
shall be removed, to bring their writs of review as afore
53.! .
Sec. 5. ﬂnd be it further enacted, That the oﬂicer shall
take good and sufficient bail in all writs of review, where
bail is required and it may be done, to answer the jud ment
that shall be given thereon; and where the bo y
of the defendant cannot be found, nor suﬂicient estate be
found to attach, to answer such action of review, then it
shall be lawful for the oﬂicer to attach the money, goods
or lands by him received, levied or attached, in pursu
ance of the former judgment obtained, if the same be
remaining in his hands or unsold, at the time of his re
ceiving said writ of review.
See. 6. ./1nd be it further enacted, That whenever any
writ of review is brought ainst any person living out
of the State, and not to beafound therem, the leaving a
copy of such writ with the attorney who signed the orig
inal writ and declaration, or either of them, or the attor
ney who signed the plea or answer ﬁled, or with the
special agent of the defendant in review, shall be a good
service to bring the cause to trial; provided the plamtiﬁ‘
in the review, or his attorney, shall give order in writing
on the back of the writ of review, therein naming the at
torney or agent to be served with a copy.
ﬂn act a portioning each town's quota o Jurors to attend the
severa Courts of this State, and irecting the method of
choosing them, and regulating their attendance at said Courts.
SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General ﬂssembly, and
b the authorit» thereof it is enacted, That the county of
Pfewport shaii send to the supreme judicial court and
to the court of common pleas and general sessions of
the peace, when holden in said county, thirteen grand
jurors, and sixteen petit jurors, that is to say: the town of
Newport, four grand and six petit jurors; Portsmouth,
two grand and three petit jurors; Jamestown, one rand
and one petit juror; Middletown, two grand an two
petit jurors; Tiverton, two grand and two petit jurors;
Little-Compton, two rand and two petit jurors.
That the county of rovidence shall send thirteen grand
and sixteen petit jurors, that is to say : Providence, one
grand and four petit jurors; Smithﬁeld, three grand and
two petit jurors; Scituate, one grand and two etit jurors;
Glocester, one grand and two petit jurors; gumberland,
one grand and one petitjuror; Cranston, two grand and
one petit juror; Johnston, one grand and one petit juror;
North-Providence, one grand and one petit juror; Fos
ter, one grand and one petit juror; and Burrillville, one
grand and one petit juror, to each of said courts.
That the county of \Vashington shall send thirteen
grand and sixteen petit jurors, that is to say: Westerly,
two grand and two petit jurors; North-Kingstown, two
grand and two petit jurors; South-Kingstown, four grand
and four petit jurors; Charlestown, one grand arid two
petit jurors; Exeter, two grand and two petit jurors;
Richmond, one grand and one petit juror; Hopkinton,
one grand and two petit jurors, to each of said courts.
That the county of Bristol shall send thirteen grand
and thirteen petit jurors, that is to say: Bristol, seven
grand and six petit jurors; Warren, three grand and four
petit jurors; and Barrington, three grand and three petit
jurors, to each of said courts.
That the county of Kent shall send thirteen grand and
ﬁfteen petit jurors, that is to say: East-Greenwich, four
grand and three petit jurors; Warwick, three grand and
live petit jurors ; West-Greenwich, three grand and two
petit jurors; and Coventry, three grand and ﬁve petit ju
rors, to each of said courts.
Sec. 2. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That each town-council
within this State shall annually make a list of all persons
liable by law, and whom they shall judge to be qualiﬁed
as jurors, and put the names of all such persons on sepa
rate pieces of paper into a box, provided by each town
for that purpose, and deliver the same to the town-clerk
of each respective town, to be by him kept locked: and
that each town-clerk within this State shall carry the ju
ry box to the town-meeting next preceding the sitting of
each of said courts; and in case of sickness, or the ab
sence of the town-clerk, then by one of the members of
the town-council; which box shall be unlocked in open
town-meeting, and the town-clerk, or in his absence one
of the members of the town-council, shall draw out so
many persons’ names as there are grand and petit jurors
required by law to be drawn for such town; or should it
be necessary to draw jurors to serve on any occasion by
law required, at any time when no town-meeting shall be
convened in course, or no other business shall require the
calling a town-meeting, in such case it shall be lawful for
the town-councils of the several towns in this State, to
cause the boxes in which are contained the names of the
lreemen, to be brought into the council-chamber, and the
jurors to be drawn in their presence; and that such choice
shall be valid as though made in the resence of the free
men in town-meeting assembled: rovided always, That
should any business make it necessary to convene the
freemen, when jurors ought to be chosen, that then and
in such case the jurors shall be drawn in the presence of
the said freemen, any thing herein contained to the con
trary notwithstanding.
Sec. 3. ﬁnd be it urther enacted, That the jurors who
shall be drawn as a oresaid, shall in Writing be returned
by name, by the town-clerk, to the clerk or one of the
udges of the court at which they were chosen to serve,
before or at the opening of said court, u on the penalty
of forfeiting ten dollars, to be collecte by warrant of
distress, from the court to which such return should have
been made, to and for the use of the State; in which re
turn it shall be designated who are grand and who petit
furors : and that the town-clerk of each town shall give a
list to the town-sergeant, or one of the constables of said
town, of the names of all persons chosen jurors, who shall
warn them six days at least before the sitting of the
court at which they are to serve; and the sergeant or
constable shall be paid twenty-ﬁve cents out of the town
treasury for warning each juror: and when any person’s
name is drawn for a juror who is sick or out of the State,
or shall hold any office whereby he is exempted by law
from serving at that time, in such case the moderator
shall cause the same to be returned into the box, and or
der another to be drawn in his room, who hath no such
impediment: and in case any juror shall be excused by
the court to which he shall be returned on the ﬁrst or
second day thereof, the clerk of such court shall, as soon
as may be, make return of the names, of all such jurors
who shall be so excused as aforesaid, to the town-clerk
of the town from which they were returned, to be put
into the box again at the next succeedin town-meetmg
at which jurors are to be drawn: and to t e end that the
same persons may not be required to serve as jurors too
oﬁen, the town-clerk or the town-council man who shall
draw the name of any person to be returned to serve as
aforesaid, shall put the same into another box provided
for that purpose, until all the names be drawn out of the
ﬁrst box; and then the whole to be returned into the ﬁrst
box, to be drawn out again in manner aforesaid.
Sec. 4. ﬁnd be it ﬁtrther enacted, That it shall be the
duty of the town-councils of the several towns in this State,
in the month of April in every year, carefully to examine
the boxes containing the names of the freemen to be
drawn for as jurors, and in their discretion to rcject
therefrom all such as are disqualiﬁed to act as such, on
account of defects either of body or mind, or any other
cause whatsoever.
Sec. 5. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That when any town
shall draw and return any person to serve on the grand
or petit jury, in any court in this State, who shall be by
law exempted, such town shall forfeit the sum of twenty
dollars, to be recovered by action of debt against the
treasurer of such town, by the general-treasurer, for the
use of the State: Provided always, That such person so
drawn, but exempted as aforesaid, shall and do, within
six days before the sitting of the court at which he was
chosen to serve, having had notice of his being chosen
given him by the town-sergeant or one of the constables
of said town, make the same known to the town-clerk of
the town where he is chosen, who upon such notice given
shall immediately summon the town-council to meet and
draw one out of the box in the room of such exempted
person, who shall be immediately warned by the town
sergeant or one of the constables as aforesaid, to give his
attendance at the court; but if the person so drawn and
exempted as aforesaid shall omit to make disclosurethereof as aforesaid, he shall forfeit and pay the like ﬁne
with one chosen to serve on the grand or petit jury, and
neglecting to ap ear; which ﬁne shall be for the use of
the State, to be evied and collected by a warrant of dis
tress from the court, directed to the sheriff of the county
or his deputy, who shall be allowed the same fees for col
lecting, as by law are allowed for executions.
Sec. 6. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That any person who
shall be chosen in any town, to serve either on the grand
or petit jury, in any of the courts, and being duly notiﬁed
thereof, shall ne lect to appear at the court on the day
by law appointed, or if any person shall be returned by
the sheriff or his deputy on a writ of venire facias, and
shall neglect to appear, in either or both such cases, such
person shall forfeit and pay as a ﬁne, the sum of ten dol
lars, to be paid by the clerk of such court into the gen
eral-treasury.
Sec. 7. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That the several courts
in this State be and they are hereby authorized to impose
and levy upon the jurors returned to the said courts
respectively, such ﬁne or ﬁnes as they may judge expe
dient for any absence or absences, neglect or neglects.
which such jurors may be guilty of, during the terms of
the said courts; provided such ﬁnes shall not exceed ten
dollars for any one offense.
Sec. 8. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That all ﬁnes incurred
by jurors under this act, shall be levied and collected by
a warrant of distress from the court, directed to the
sheriff (or his deputy) of the county wherein such juror
dwells, or his estate be found ; on which warrant the same
fees shall be demanded as are allowed on executions;
and such ﬁnes when collected shall be paid into the gen
eral-treasury.
Sec. 9. ﬁnd be it further enacted That when it shall
hap en in any town, that jurors are to be drawn to serve
at t re supreme judicial court and to the courts of common
pleas and general sessions of the peace, at the same
town-meeting, then the jurors to serve at the supreme
judicial court shall be ﬁrst drawn; and grand jurors shall
be drawn before petit jurors. ' Sec. 10. ﬁnd be itfurther enacted, That all grand and
etit jurors, drawn as aforesaid, shall attend the courts
5):‘ which they shall be drawn at nine of the clock in
the forenoon of the second day of the term.
Sec. 11. ﬁnd be it urtber enacted, That each grand and
petit juror who shal attend the supreme judicial court or
the court of common pleas and general sessions of the
eace, or any special court of common pleas, shall be al
owed one dollar per day for his attendance thereon; and
every drawn juror, two cents per mile (if over one mile)
for his travel oing, and two cents per mile returning; to
be paid out 0 'the general-treasury; and it shall be the
duty of the clerks of every court, to certify to the gene
ral-treasurer, the number of days that each juror has ac
tually attended, the number of miles he has travelled, (if
a drawn juror,) and the amount of his fees according to
the provisions aforesaid.
Sec. 12. ﬁnd be itfurther enacted, That the plaintifff or
appellant in either of said courts, shall pay to the clerk
thereof, the sum of five dollars, for the trial of each cause,
before the verdict therein shall be rendered, to be paid
by such clerks into the general-treasury.
Sec. 13. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That no freeholder
who has sufﬁcient estate in the town wherein he resides
to qualify him as a freeman, (or his eldest son, being of
age) shall be exempted from serving as a juror in conse
quence of his neglect to become a freeman.
S1-:0. 14. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That the supreme judicial
court, and also the courts of common pleas and general sessions of the peace,. when sitting in any county, if
a suﬂicient number ofjurors do not attend such court, or
are challenged and taken ofli in such case the said court
are empowered to grant a writ of venire facias to the
sheriﬂi or his deputy, of the county where said courts are
sitting, to return such a number of good and lawful men
as shall be wanting, from any part of the county, to serve
so long as the court shall have occasion for them; who
are to be under the same ﬁne for delinquencies with such
as are drawn out of the box.
Sec. 15. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That no freeholder
whosoever within this State, shall be exempted fromserving as a juror at any time, except the governor, lieutenant-governor, attorney-general, district judge, judges
of the courts, the clerks and sheriffs of the counties, and
the marshal, with their respective deputies; the clerk of
the district court, the sergeants and other oﬂicers attend
ing the courts, and also all practising attornies, practi
sing physicians and surgeons, ministers of the gospel, the
gresident, professors, tutors, librarian and steward of
rown University, cashiers of the incorporated banks,
schoolmasters, town-clerks, revenue officers of the United
States, one ferryman to each ferry who usually navigates
the boat, postmasters, postriders, one miller to each mill
who usually attends the same, all persons appointed for
working the ﬁre-engines, members of the ﬁre-hook and
ladder com any in Providence, and all persons of sixty
ﬁve years of)age and upwards.
Sec. 16. ﬁnd be it further enacted; That all persons who
shall be lawfully drawn, and who actually attend to serve
on any grand or petit ury, in any court within this State,
they and their estates shall be likewise free and exempt
from all writs of summons, arrest, attachment, and execu
tion, during the sitting of such court wherein they. are
drawn to serve, if such jurors are not dismissed before;
and also three days next before the sitting of such court,
and three days next after they shall be legally dismissed
and discharged from said service, which are allowed for
their coming to said court, and returning home to their
habitations.
Sec. 17. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That all and eve
ry summons, writ, execution or other process, which shall
be served upon any of the persons aforesaid, or their
estates, contrary to this act, shall be null and void, and of
no effect in law.
ﬁn act establishi Justices of the Peace, and regulating the
proceedings an trials in civil actions brought before them.
Sscrron 1. Be it enacted b the General ./Qssemblg/, and by the
authority thereof it is enacted? That the general assembly,
at their session on the ﬁrst Wednesday in May annually,
shall choose so many justices of the peace for each town
in this State, as they shall think proper for the adminis
tration of justice, who shall be commissioned and engaged
according to law.
Sec. 2. ﬂnd be it further enacted, That all actions or
pleas of the case, account, debt, detinue, covenant, re
plevin, and trespass (if the title to lands, tenements or
hereditaments, is not in dispute) where the debt, damage
or demand amounts to no more than twenty dollars, may
be heard, tried and determined, by one or more justices of
the peace, or wardens, of the town wherein such action
shall be brought, who shall enter up judgment, and award
execution thereon: and the writ of execution shall be
signed by the justice who issued the original writ: Pro
vided nevertheless, That whenever any justice of the peace
or warden of any town shall cease to sustain said oﬂice,
any justice of the peace or warden of the same town may,
upon application to him made in writing, issue a writ of
execution or of scire facias upon any judgment in civil ac
tions, in the same manner and with the same effect as
such justice of the peace or warden ceasing to sustain
said oﬁice might have issued, had he continued in oﬂice.
Sec. 3. ./ind be it further enacted, That the ori inal writ
or summons, in any such case aforesaid, shall e signed
by a justice or warden of the town where the action shall
be commenced; and shall be directed to the sheriﬂi his
deputy, or to either of the town-ser eants or constables in
the county in which such suit shal be brought: and in
case both parties live in the same count , then the action
shall be brought either in the town w ere the plaintifff
lives or in the town where the defendant lives, or is to be
found, except in cases where by law any particular direc
tion is made; but in case any person shall have cause of
any such action as aforesaid, against any person in any
other county, then he may apply to a justice or warden
of any town in the county where the person to be sued
dwells, or is to be found, who may grant a writ or sum
mons, and proceed to trial according to the directions of
this act: and all ori inal writs and summonses, and writs
of scire facias, issued in pursuance of this act, shall be du
ly served six days at least before the day of trial ; and no
person except those who are freeholders and inhabitants
of this State, shall have any such original writ, or summons,
or writ of scire facias, without ﬁrst giving security for
cost, in the same manner as by law is required when suits
are commenced by persons other than freeholders and in
habitants of this State at the courts of common pleas.
Sec. 4. ﬁnd be itfurther enacted, That in all such original
suits, for want of the defendant’s body, his goods and
chattels may be attached, sutiicient to answer the debt or
damages demanded, with costs; and in case of any attach
ment, the officer who made the same shall leave an attest
ed copy of the writ at the defendant’s usual place of abode,
with some person there, to be delivered to him, her or
them, or else such writ shall be abated: and all personal
estate attached as aforesaid, shall be holden torespond
the judgment recovered thereon, notwithstanding the jus
tice or warden before whom the action was commenced
shall cease to sustain said otﬁce after jud ment rendered,
but before execution issued thereon: and any execution
issued by virtue of this act, may be levied on said goods
and chattels, and the same may be sold in like manner as
is by law provided in other cases: and any person who
may have become bail for the defendant in any civil action
commenced before any 'ustice of the peace or war
den last aforesaid, shall be olden in like manner as if
said justice or warden had continued in oﬁice.
Sec. 5. ./9nd be it further enacted, That in all actions on
book account, for goods, wares or merchandizc sold, or
work or service done, the plaintifff shall annex a particular account thereof to his writ; and where the whole
amount is more than twenty dollars, and the balance sta
ted by the laintiﬁ doth not exceed that sum, he may bring
his action for such balance, annexing his account of debt
and credit to the Writ,to the end that it may appear how
the said balance arose, and shall declare specially thereon; and the defendant in such action may exhibit in court
his account against the plaintiﬂ, and the court shall settle
the true balance or difference of their accounts, give judg
ment therein, and award execution for such balance (if by
the adjustment and jud ment of the court it doth not ex
ceed twenty dollars) willﬁ cost: Provided, That where the
account exhibited by the defendant shall exceed the sum
of twenty dollars, and in the opinion of the court shall be
due the defendant,to a greater amount than twenty dollars,
then and in such case the court shall render 'udgment
against the plaintifff as in case of non-suit, and or the de
fendant for his costs only, and shall not any further adjudi
cate upon the account of the defendant, whose right to sue
for the same by action at law shall remain in the same man
ner as before the commencement of the said action of the
plaintifff: Provided always, and it is the true intent here
of, That all actions for the recovery of money due on any
note, or other instrument in writing, which was given
originally for twenty dollars, or a larger sum, and which
by mdorsement is reduced to twenty dollars or under, in
cluding principal and interest, may be brought at any such
justice’s court as aforesaid, and judgment may be entered
thereon and execution awarded, in the same manner as
though said note had been originally given for twenty dol
lars or a less sum.
Sec. 6. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That when an action
of trespass shall be brought before any justice of the peace
or warden, and the defendant shall plead the general is
sue, he shall not be allowed to offer any evidence that '
may bring the title of real estate in question: and when
the defendant in any such action shall plead the title of
himself or any other person in justification, the justice, up
on having such plea ﬁled, shall require the defendant to
give bond to the adverse party in a reasonable sum, with
suﬂieient surety or sureties, to enter the said action at the
next court of common pleas to be holden within the same
county, and to prosecute the same in the same manner as
upon an appeal from a justice’s judgment: and if such de
fendant shall refuse so to give bond, the justice shall ren
der judgment against him in the same manner as if he had
refused to make answer to the suit: and either party in
such case shall be allowed to appeal from the judgment of
the court of common pleas, in the same manner as if the
suit had been originally commenced there: and every
justice of the peace shall have power, by public procla
mation, to adjourn the trial of any action brought before
him, from time to time, when equit may require it.
See. 7. ﬁnd be it further enacted, hat in all civil actions
triable before a justice of the peace, except such actions
of trespass wherein the defendant means to avail himself,
by pleading the title of himself, or any other person under
whom he claims, in justiﬁcation of the trespass or trespass
es alleged to be committed on real estate, the defendant
shall be entitled to all evidence under the general issue
which by law he might avail himself of under any special
plea in bar whatever.
Sec. 8. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That any party who
shall be aggrieved at any judgment of any justice of the
peace or warden, may appeal therefrom to the next court
of common pleas to be holden in the same county, where
the party so aggrieved shall have a hearing of said case,
which shall be ﬁnal; provided he shall within ﬁve days
pay the costs, and give bond in said justice’s court, in a
sum not exceeding fty dollars, with suﬂicient surety or
sureties, to prosecute such appeal with effect, or in default
to ay costs.
so. 9. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That no attorney’s fee
shall be allowed and taxed in the bill of cost before any
justice’s court.
Sec. 10. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That when apy person
shall be sued in any action as aforesaid, he may 0 with
the oﬁicer who served the writ- or summons, be ore the
justice or warden who shall have issued the same, and
there confess judgment for the plaintiff’s demand, ﬁrst giv
ing bail in the action, if bail be required by the terms of the
writ, which confession the justice or warden shall record,
tax cost as far as it hath accrued, and award execution.
Sec. 11. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That the oﬁicers in
this State who shall serve any justice’s writ of arrest, shall
observe the same rules in takmg bail as the sheriff's are
holden to by the laws of this State.
Sec. 12. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That no execution shall
issue on any judgment obtained as aforesaid in less than
ﬁve days after judgment rendered; and all such execu
tions shall be returned to the justice or warden who grant
ed the same, in three months after the date thereof; or in_
case of his death or removal from the town, then to be re
turned to the town-clerk; and shall be directed in the
same manner as the original process; and shall be served
in the same manner as executionsare directed to be serv
v 19
ed, which are issued out of the court of common pleas:
and in case the execution, granted by such justice or
warden, shall be levied on goods and chattels, the same
shall be advertised for sale immediately, by the officer
who shall have the execution in charge, in two or more
public (places, and shall be by him, or some other legal
officer uly authorized, ex osed to sale in ten days after
levying such execution, un ess the owner shall within that
time redeem them; and after sale, if there be any surplus
money, the same shall be returned to the owner.
Sec. 13. ﬁnd be itfurther enacted, That all judgments and
proceedings shall be fairly recorded in a book to be kept
for that purpose only; and every justice of the peace
and warden s all, within six months after he shall cease to
the office of justice or warden, lodge with the
town-clerk of the town in which he lives, all his records
and official papers, to be preserved by such town-clerk
as appendages to his office: and in case of the decease
of any justice of the peace or warden, his executors or
administrators shall lodge his records and pa rs as
aforesaid in the office of such town-clerk, wit 'n six
months after the death of such justice or warden: and if
any justice of the peace or warden, or the executors or ad
ministrators of such justice or warden, shall neglect or re
fuse to lodge such records or papers as aforesaid,every such
person so offending shall forfeit and pay the sum of two
dollars a month, for each month he shall so neglect or re
fuse, to be recovered by an action of debt, in any court of
competent jurisdiction; one moiety thereof to and for the
use of the State, and the other moiety to and for the use
of him who shall sue for the same.
Sac. 14. ﬁnd be it urther enacted, That it shall be the
duty of any person w 0 may have sustained the office of
justice of the peace or warden, at any time before he shall
have lodged his records and official pa ers with the town
clerk, to deliver to any other justice of)the peace or war
den of the same town, to whom application in writing may
have been made, to issue anywnt in pursuance of this
act, the original papers in any such civil action: and it
shall be the duty of any town-clerk, at any time after the
records and official papers of any justice of the peace or
warden shall have been lodged in his office, in like man
ner to deliver such original papers; provided the jus
tice of the {peace or warden to whom a plication has been
made as a ore-said, shall ﬁrst make a demand in writing,
particularly specifying the papers wanted; and upon neglect or refusal for the space of twenty-four hours after
such demand, the person so refusing shall be liable to pay
to the party in whose favor judgment was rendered in the
original action, the amount of such judgment; to be re
covered in an action of debt, before any court of compe
tent jurisdiction.
See. 15. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That if any justice of
the peace shall sell any blank writ, by him officially signed, or shall deliver to any person, any such writ, with per,
mission in the absence of such justice to ﬁll up and serve,
or cause to be ﬁlled up and served such writ, and shall be
thereof lawfully convicted, before any court of record, he
shall forfeit ten dollars, to be paid into the town-treasury
of the town to which such justice shall belon , and shall
also be ineligible to that oﬂice for the term of two years
next after such conviction.
Sec. 16. ﬁnd be it ﬁzrther enacted, That town-sergeants
and constables may and shall serve and execute in any
town of the county, to which such town-sergeant and con-.
stables belon ,all writs,summ0nses and other processes to
them directed, and which by law may or ought to be served and executed by town-sergeants and constables; except
in cases where by law it is otherwise specially provided.
ﬁn act vesting Justices of the Peace with certain Powers in
‘ Criminal Cases.
Sscnou 1. Be it enacted by the General ﬁssembly, and by the
authority thereof it is enacted, That it shall be within the
power, and shall be the duty, of every‘ ustice of the
peace, to take co nizance of all assaults and batteries
committed within t e county in which he resides, and to
punish the offenders as by law provided; and to cause to
be stayed and arrested all afﬁayers, rioters, disturbers
and breakers of the peace, and to bind them by recog
nizance to appear at the next supreme judicial court, or
court of general sessions of the peace, to be holden with
in the same county, at the discretion of the justice ; and
also to require such persons to ﬁnd surety or sureties for
their keeping the peace, and being of good behavior, un
til the sitting of the court they are to appear before; and
to commit such persons to prison who shall refuse so to
recognize and ﬁnd surety or sureties: and the justices of
the peace shall respectively examine into all treasons,
murders, homicides and felonies, done and committed in
their counties, and commit to prison all persons guilty or
suspected to be guilty of treason, murder, or other capi
tal offense, and hold to bail all persons guilty or sus
pected to be guilty of lesser offenses, which are not tri
able by a justice of the peace ; and shall require sure
ties for the good behavior of all dangerous or disorder
ly persons, and shall take cognizance of and examine in
to all other crimes, matters and offenses, which by parti
cular laws are ut within their jurisdiction.
Sec. 2. ﬁnd e it further enacted, That the justices of
the peace shall respectively have owerto command the as
sistance of every sheriff, deputy-slierifli town-sergeant and
constable, and of every other erson present at an affray,
riot, assault and battery; an may ﬁne any erson refu
sing such assistance, not exceeding seven dol ars, for the
use of the State, to’ be levied by warrant of distress, on
the offender's goods and chattels, and for want thereof on
his body. '
Sec. 3. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That it shall and
may be lawful for any one or more justices of the peace
to try any person or persons charged with an assault or
battery or both, and on suﬂicient proof to convict the
person or persons so charged, and to sentence such de
endant or defendants to a ﬁne not exceeding twenty dol
lars, or to imprisonment not exceeding twenty days; but
if it shall appear to the justice or justices, to whom com
plaint as aforesaid, shall be made, that neither of the pun
ishments aforesaid is adequate to the ofliance, it shall be
the duty of such justice or justices thereupon to bind
over the offender or offenders, with one or more sufficient.
sureties in a recognizance, to appear at the next supreme
judicial court or court of general sessions of the peace,
in the county wherein said offense shall have been com
mitted, at the discretion of said justice.
Sec. 4. ﬁnd be it ﬁn-ther enacted, That it shall and may
be lawful for any two or more justices of the peace to
try any person or persons charged with theft, in their res
pective counties, where the money or article stolen shall
not exceed the sum of ten dollars ; and on sufficient
proof, to convict the person so charged, and to sentence
such convict to a ﬁne not exceeding t.en dollars, and to
restoration of the property stolen, or the value thereof ;
orin default of the payment of said ﬁne, and the restora
tion or payment of the value as aforesaid, to sentence
such convict to be whipped not exceeding twenty stripes,
or to be imprisoned.not exceeding one month. - or
See. 5. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That when any complaint shall be made to any justice of the peace, of any
assault or battery, or any theft or other crime within the
jurisdiction of justices of the peace to try, or any complaint craving sureties of the peace, or good behavior,
the said justice, before he shall grant any warrant or
other process to apprehend the person or persons accu
sed, shall take a recognizance from the complainant, with
suﬂicient surety, to prosecute the said complaint with
effect, or in default thereof to pay all lawful costs which
may accrue to the State, or to the person or persons ac
cused; and in case the com lainant shall not prosecute
such complaint, or if the de endant or defendants upon
trial be acquitted, the justice of the peace to whom the
complaint shall be made, or the justices’ court before
whom the cause shall be tried, shall tax and allow all
lawful costs against the complainant; and in default of
payment of the same within three days after the taxation
thereof, the justice or court as aforesaid shall issue an
execution against the complainant, and his, her or their
sureties, returnable in forty days: and in case said court
shall sentence the person or persons accused to ﬁnd
sureties of the peace or for good behavior, such ‘personor persons shall pay down the costs, and in de ault of
ﬁndin such sureties and paying the costs, shall be com
mitte to the jail in the county, until the order or sen
tence of said court shall be complied with and per
formed.
Sec. 6. ﬁnd be it fhrther enacted, That if after a trial as
aforesaid, an appeal shall be had to the court of general
sessions of the peace, the party appealing shall bring into
the court appealed to, together with a copy of the case,
a copy of the recognizance given by the complainant as
aforesaid, and if the defendant or defendants shall there
be acquitted, the said court shall tax the costs and issue
execution accordingly. '
Sec. 7. ﬁnd be itfurther enacted, That when it shall be
made to appear to any two justices, that any person being
within their county is lunatic or so furiously mad as to render it dangerousto the peace or the safety of the good peo
ple, for such lunatic person to go at large, the said justices
shall have full power, by warrant under their hands and
seals, to commit such person to the county jail, there to
be detained till he or she shall be restored to soundness
of mind, or otherwise delivered by due course of law, or
until. satisfactory recognizance shall be given, that said
person shall not be permitted to go at large until restor
ed to sound mind; and every person so committed, shall
be kept at his or her own expence, if he or she have any
estate, otherwise at the charge of the person or town up
on whom his or her maintenance was chargeable, if he or
she had not been committed.
Sec. 8. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That the wardens in
the towns in which they are chosen by law shall have the
same power in criminal cases in their respective towns,
that justices of the peace have by this act, in the like
cases, in their respective counties.
I
./9n act prescribing the forms of writs, and manner of serv
ing them.
Sscnou 1. Be it enacted by the General ﬂssernbly, and 6 the
authority thereof it is enacted, That the forms of writs 0 ar
rest, onginal summons, scire facias, executions, and other
writs hereinafter mentioned, to be used in the several
courts in this State, shall be as follows, to wit:
Writ of ﬂrrest.
sc. The State of Rhode-Island and Providence
Plantations.
To the sher-if of our county of or to his deputy,
greeting.
We command you to arrest the body of (if
may be found in your precinct) and for want of
body, to attach goods and chattels to the
value of dollars, and in safe custody keep, to
answer the complaint of at the next court of
common pleas, to be holden at within and for
our said county of on the Monday of
next ensuing the date hereof, in an action of as by
declaration to be ﬁled in court will be fully set forth:
to the damage of the plaintifff dollars. Hereoft"ail
not, and make true return of this writ, with your doings
thereon. Witness, Esq. at this
day of in the year
O ' inal Summons.
so. The State of bode-Island and Providence
Plantations,
To the sherff of our county of or to his deputy/,
greeting. - _
We command you to summon (if may
be found in your precinct) to answer. the complaint of
at the next court of common pleas, to be holden
at within and for our said county of on the
Monday of next ensuing the date hereof, in
an action of as by declaration to be ﬁled in court
will be fully set forth: to the damage of the plaintifff
dollars. Hereof fail not, and make true return of
this writ, with your doings thereon. Witness,
Esq. at this day of in the year
Execution. '
sc. The State of Rhode-Island and Providence
Plantations.
To the shenf of our county of
greeting.
Whereas
of our
or to his deputy,
by the consideration of the justices
holden at within and for our
county of on the Monday of recovered
judgment against , for the sum of debt and
costs of suit, as to us appears of record, whereof
execution remains to be done : we command you,thereforee,
that of the goods and chattels of the said within
your precinct, you cause to be levied and paid unto the
said the aforesaid sums, being in the
whole, with cents more for this writ; and there
of also to satisfy yourself for our own fees; and for
want of the goods or chattels olythe said tobe
found in your precinct, to satisfy and pay the same as
aforesaid, we command you to take the body of the said
and commit unto our jail in in
our county of and in your custody keep within
our said jail, until pay the full sums abovementioned,
with your fees, or that be discharged by the said
or otherwise by order of law.
Hereof ‘fail not, and make true return of this writ, and
of your doings thereon, to our next to be hol
den at within and for our county of
on the Monday of next. Witness,
Esq. at this day of
in the year
E:cecution on judgmentfor possession of real estate.
so. The State of Rhode-lsland and Providence
Plantations.
To the sherﬂ' of our county of or to his deputy,
greetmg.
Whereas by the consideration of the justices
of our holden at within and for our
county of on the Monday of reco
vered judgment for the possession of with the
privileges and ap ertenances thereunto belonging, against
who ad unjustly withholden him from the
possession thereof; and also by the consideration of the
same court recovered judgment against the said
for the sum of for costs of suit, as to us appears
of record, whereof execution remains to be done: we
command you, thereforee, that without delay you cause
the said to have possession of and in the said
with the rivileges and appertenances there
unto belonging. e also command you, that of the
goods and chattels of the said within your
precinct, ou cause to be levied and paid to the said
the oresaid sum of with more for
this writ, and thereof also to satisf yourself for your own
fees ;and for want of the goods_ andchattels of the said
to be found in your precinct, to satisfy and pay the
same as aforesaid, we command you to take the body of
the said and commit to our jail in our
county of and in your custody keep within our
said jail, until pay the full sums abovementioned,
with your fees, or that be dischar ed by the
said or otherwise by order of law. ereof fail
not, and make true return of this writ, and of your d0lI]ge-‘
thereon, to our next to be holden at ~ _
within and for our county of on the Mon
day of next. VVitness, Esq. at
this day of in the year
Scirc Facias.
so. The State of Rhode-lsland and Providence
Plantations.
To the sherg'ﬂ' of our county of or to his deputy,
greeting.
Whereas by the consideration of the justices
of our ' holden at within and for our
county of on the Monday of reco
vered judgment against for the sum of
as to us appears of record; and although execution has
been issued on said judgment, the same still remains un
satisﬁed, and the oﬂicer to whom said execution was di
rected has returned thereon, that he could not ﬁnd either
the body or the estate of the said whereon to
levy the same : and whereas the said hath sug
gested to us that became bail for the said
on the original writ in the suit aforesaid, but hath
not rendered the body of the said as by law
ought to have done; and the said hath made
application to us to provide a remedy for in
that behalf; now to the end that justice may be done,
we command you, that you make known unto the said
that be before the justices of our said
to be holden at within and for our said
county of on the Monday of next
ensuing the date hereof, to shew cause (if any )
wherefore the said ought not to have
execution for aforesaid, with the interest there
of; and further to do and receive that which our said
court shall then consider. Hereof fail not, and make
true return of this writ, and of your doings thereon. Wit
ness, Esq. at this day of
in the year
Wrz't 0 arrest to be issued by Justices 0 the Peace.
so. To the s his deputy, or to either qf I town-sergeants,
or constables in the county of greetin .
You are hereby, in the name of the State of hode
Island and Providence Plantations, re uired to arrest the
body of (if may be foun in your recinct)
and for want of body, to attach goods an chattels,
and in safe custody keep, to answer the complaint of
at a justice’s court to be holden at in
on the day of at of the
clock in the noon, in an action of to the damage
of the plaintifff, (as dollars. Hereof fail not,
and make due return of this writ, with your doings there
on. Given under my hand and seal, at aforesaid,
the day of in the year
Execution to be issued by Justices of the Peace.
so. The State of Rhode-Island and Providence
Plantations.
To the sheriﬂ his deputy, or to either ofthe town-sergeants, or
constables, in the county of greetmg.
Whereas at a justice’s court holden at
on the day of recovered judgment of
said court against for the sum of debt
and costs of suit, taxed at as of record of said
court doth appear; which sums, in the whole, amount to
for which execution remains to be done. We
command you thereforee, that of the goods and chattels
of the said (within your precinct) you levy the
said sum of together with for this execu
tion, as also your lawful fees, for serving the same, and
therewith satisfy and pay the said and for want
of sutﬁcient goods and chattels of the said to be
by you found, to satisfy and pay the same sums as aforesaid,
we command you to take the body of the said into
your custody, and safely secure in our jail in
until satisfy and pay the said the sums afore
said, and your fees, or until be by the said
therefrom discharged, or otherwise, by order of law.
Hereof fail not, and make return of this writ, in three
months from the date hereof, and of your doings thereon.
Given under m hand and seal at aforesaid,
this day 0 in the year
Summons for witnesses.
T0 of greeting.
You are hereby required, in the name of the State of
Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations, to make your
appearance before the justices of the next to be
holden at within and for the county of on
the Monday of to give evidence of what you
know, relating to an action or plea of then and
there to be heard and tried, betwixt plaintiﬁ; and
defendant. Hereof fail not, as you will answer
your default under the enalty of the law, in that behalf
made and provided. Bated at the day
of in the year
Clerk.
Sec. 2. ﬂnd be it further enacted, That all writs, original
and judicial, issued in the name of the State of Rhode
lsland and Providence Plantations, shall be under the
seal of the respective courts, from Which they shall issue,
be signed by the clerk, and bear test of the ﬁrst justice
thereof, not a party to such suit, and be directed to and
served by the sheriﬁ’ or his deputy: provided, that ifthe
clerk of the court from which any writ or other process
shall issue, shall be a party in any writ, all such writs and
other process in such suit, shall be signed by one of the
justices of the court from Which such writ or process shall
be issued: Provided also, That if the sheriff shall be a
party in any suit, all writs and other process in such
suit, to be served in the county whereof he is sheri-ft; shall
be directed to and served by any one of the town-ser
geants in such county, not a party thereunto.
Sec. 3. ﬁnd be it urther enacted, That whenever a writ of
arrest shall be de ivcred to an oﬂicer duly authorized to
serve the same, he shall use his best endeavours to arrest
the body of the defendant; but if such otﬁcer cannot ﬁnd
the body of the defendant within his precinct, he shall at
tach his goods and chattels, to the value commanded in
the writ, if so much can be found, and may attach any
less value, if the plaintifff or his attorney shall give order
therefore on the back of such writ; and when any attach
ment is made in manner aforesaid, the same shall be suf
ﬁcient to bring the cause to trial ; and the officer, who
shall make any attachment as aforesaid, shall at the time
of making the same, leave an attested co y of such writ,
with a copy of his return, or doings t ereon, at the
defendant’s usual place of abode, with some person there,
that the defendant may have knowledge of the suit; and in
all civil cases, when execution shall be levied on any goods
or chattels, such goods or chattels shall be ke tin the of
ﬁcer’s hands, and advertised at least ten days efore they
shall be exposed and offered for sale, in order that the
person who owned such goods and chattels, may, if he
thinks ﬁt, ay the money due, together with the costs
which shall)have accrued thereon, and thereupon have
his said oods or chattels restored to him again. But in
case sucli owner shall not redeem them as aforesaid, the
officer shall sell the same at public auction to the highest
bidder; and if any overplus shall remain, after the debt,
costs and char es are paid, the same shall be returned by
the oﬁicer to t e owner, or to any person legally qualiﬁed
on his behalf to receive the same : Provided however,-‘Phat
the following articles shall not be liable to distress or attach
ment, on any warrant of distress, or on any writ, original
or 'udicial, issued against any housekeeper, viz. one bed
an bedding for every two persons in a family; and also
for each person in the family, one chair, one knife and
fork, one plate, and one cup and saucer, together with
other necessary furniture; provided the whole, including
beds and bedding, do not exceed in value the sum of ﬁfty
dollars ; also their necessary wearing a parel together
with one cow or hog, and the working too s of said debtor
necessary for his or her usual occupation; provided,
the said tools, do not exceed in value the sum of thirty
dollars.
Sec. 4. ./ind be itfurtlwr enacted, That in case any otﬁcer
for taxes, or by any warrant of distress whatsoever, shall
distrain the goods and chattels of any person, the oﬁicer
who shall make such distraint, shall proceed in the same
manner, and be holden to the same rules, as herein before
directed in attachments in civil actions.
Sec. 5. And whereas it often happens, That ersons
who are indebted, live out of this State, or concea them
selves therein, so that neither their bodies nor personal
estate can be come at to satisfy their debts: Be
it enacted, That when a writ is taken out against any
person, whose body or personal estate cannot be found
within this State, the words “ or real estate,” may be ad
ded in the writ, next to the words goods and chattels;
and the oﬂicer to whom the writ is directed, may attach
the real estate of the person indebted as aforesaid, in the
same manner as is directed by law for attachin personal
estate ; and the oﬂicer, upon attaching any rea estate as
aforesaid, shall leave a copy of the writ, by which the
same shall be attached, and of his doin s thereon, with
the person in possession, and also with t e town-clerk of
the town in which such real estate lies ; but if no person
be in possession, then the officer shall set up notiﬁcations
thereof in three public places in the town where such
real estate lies ; and if the person whose real estate shall
be attached as aforesaid, shall be absent out of the State,
at the time of attaching his estate, and shall not return
within the same, before the time at which such writ is re
turnable, and shall not answer the suit in which his real
estate shall be attached as aforesaid, the court shall con
time the same for one term; and the defendant in such
A
case, shall have a right to answer the same, six days pre
vious to the term to which such case shall be continued;
and in all cases where real estate shall be attached, and
the plaintifff shall recover judgment therein, he shall have
execution granted against the real estate attached as
aforesaid, and the officer charged with the service of such
execution, after having levied the same on such real
estate, shall set up notiﬁcations in three or more public
places in the town where such real estate lies, tor the
space of-three months at least, after such execution is le
vied, before the same shall be ex osed to sale, notifying
all persons concerned of the attac ment and intended sale
of said estate, that the owner of such estate may have an
opportunity to redeem the same. But if no person ap
pear to redeem the said estate, then the officer shall sell
the same, or so much thereof as shall be suﬂicient to sat
isfy the judgment obtained, and the costs, at public auc
tion; and a deed thereof by him given, shall vest in the
purchaser all the estate, right and interest, which the
debtor had therein at the time such estate was attached
as aforesaid; and the surplusage of the money that shall
arise from the sale of said estate, after satisfying the ex
ecution and the costs therein, shall be lodged in the gen
eral-treasury for the owner thereof, and be liable to be
attached for his other debts. And such sale shall be
made under the execution levied thereon although the
return day thereof may have passed. And in all cases
when execution shall be issued upon any judgment,
where real estate was not attached by the oﬂicer on the
original writ, if no personal estate can be found, nor the
debtor’s body, the party obtaining judgment may cause
execution to be levied on real estate in manner aforesaid.
Sec. 6. ﬁnd be it urther enacted, That in all attachments
of real estate, goo s and chattels, and in all foreign at
tachments, he Wh‘o ﬁrst procures any such attachment to
be made for any just debt, shall be entitled to have such
his debt, for which he ﬁrst attached as aforesaid, satis
ﬁed, before any other debt, for which the same may be
attached or taken by execution at the suit of any other
person: and all others in order of attachment. And as
divers attachments of the same real and personal estate,
may happen to be made on the same day, the officer who
shall make any such attachment, whether on real or per
sonal estate, or by service of a co y of a writ on an per
son or body corporate, for attac ing any estate in ii
is 01‘
their hands, shall be obliged, in his return, to set forth
the time of the day when such attachment was made, to
the end that rionty of attachment may be known.
Sec. 7. ﬁ be it further enacted, That the followin
shall be the form of the deed to be given, when resﬁ
estate is attached and sold as aforesaid, viz.
To all people to whom these presents shall come, semi greeting :
Whereas an execution against at the suit of
was by me the said on the
day of levied on [here describe the premises :]
and whereas on the day of all the estate,
right, title, interest, and property of the said in
the premises aforesaid, were by me the said
sold at public auction, for the satisfaction of the said exe
cution, to who was the highest bidder, for the
sum of which the said hath since well
and truly paid me the said Now know ye, that
by force and virtue of the law in such case made and
provided, I, the said in consideration of the
sum of money paid unto me as aforesaid, do, by these
presents, bargain, sell, assign and set over, unto the said
heirs and assigns for ever all the estate, right,
title, interest, property, freehold, and inheritance of the
said of, in and to the said premises and ap
ertenances, at the time of the attachment thereof: To
have and to hold the said premises and appertenances to
the said heirs and assigns for ever. ln Wit
ness, &c.
Provided however, That whenever the attachment shall
have been made by original writ, the sheriff shall insert
the time thereof and vary his deed accordingly.
Sec. 8. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That an original sum
mons shall be served by reading the same to the person to
be summoned, or by leaving an attested copy thereof at
his last and usual place of abode by the officer to whom
the same shall be directed, and a writ of scire_ facias shall
be served in the same manner, and a certiﬁcate of such
service, by the oﬂicer who made the same, shall be con
sidered as due proof thereof.
Sec. 9. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That a summons for a
witness shall be served by reading the same to him, and
every witness so summoned and having tendered to him
his lawful fees, for his travel from his place of abode to
the place at which he shall be summoned to attend»
and for one day’s attendance, shall be obliged to attend
accordingly ; and if he does not appear according to the
tenor of such summons, havin no reasonable let or hin
drance to the contrary, he sha l be liable to the action of
the aggrieved party for all damages sustained in conseuence
ofsuchdefault; and the court or justice ofthe ace
islmll have power, by writ of attachment, to bring suc wit
ness into court, and to ﬁne him not exceeding twentyr dol
lars and shall order him to pay costs of such attachment,
and to be committed to prison until such ﬁne and costs be
aid. ‘
P Sec. 10. ./Ind be it further enacted, That no civil process
whatsoever, shall be served on Sunday, but every such
service shall be utterly void.
Sec. 11. ﬁnd be itfurther enacted, That all the waters of
the Narragansett Bay, situate to the northward ofField’s
Point, shall be deemed a part of the county of Providence, and be within the junsdiction of said county; and
that all the other waters of the said bay shall not be deemed to make part, or be within the sole jurisdiction of any
one particular county of this State ; but that it shall be
lawful for any sheriff, or other oﬂicer duly authorized, be
longing to either of the counties of this State, to serve any
writ‘ or other process whether of a civil or criminal na
ture,gvithin any part of the waters of the said Narragan
sett a .
Sac. l2. And be it urther enacted, That all indictments
for any crime or mis emeanor, committed on the waters
of the said Narragansett Bay, shall be triable in any countg of this State, at the discretion of the attorney-general:
T
ovided nevertheless, That all writs in civil suits shall be
made returnable in the county where either the plaintiff
or defendant may reside, if both of them shall be inhabit
ants of this State, any thing in this act to the contrary
notwithstanding.
ﬂu act enabling creditors to recover their just debts and demands
ofpcrsons who are absentfrom the State, or concealed therein,
and for other purposes therein mentioned.
SECTION 1. Be it enacted the General ﬂssembly, and bthe authority thereof it is enacte , That when any person sha l
reside or _be absent out of this State, or shall conceal himSelf lherelmso that his body cannot. be arrested, then the
ersonal estate of such person, lodged or lying in the
ands of his or her attorney, agent, factor, trustee or debt
or shall be liable to be attached, to answer any just debt
or demand; and the serving any person or persons,
who have such personal estate in their hands, with
a copy of a writ taken out against such absent or conceal
ed person, shall be a good service of said writ; and the
person so served with a copy, shall be obliged to render
an account upon oath of what estate he had of the defend
ant in his hands, at the time such writ was served, if any,
or otherwise to make oath, that he had not, directly or in
directly, any such estate in his bands; which oath shall
be made before the court to which such writ shall be
brought, or one or more of the 'ustices of said court or be
fore either of the justices of t e court of common pleas,
in the county where he on whom such copy shall be serv
ed dwells, and be ﬁled in the clerk’s oﬁice in the county,
where the action shall be brought, before the sitting of the
court. And if such oath be made out of court, the plain
tiff or his attorney shall be ﬁrst notiﬁed by such judge, of
the time and place of taking the same.
Sec. 2. ./9nd be it further enacted, That if it shall ap ear, by
the account or oath of such person or persons, w 0 have
been served with the copy of any writ, against any absent
or concealed person as aforesaid,that he or theyhad,at the
time of the service of said writ, any of the personal estate
of the defendant in his or their hands, then and in such
case, the plaintifff after having recovered judgment against
the absent or concealed person, may have his action
against the person or persons in whose hands such per
sonal estate appears to lie or be lodged, to recover so
much as will satisfy the said judgment, with interest and
costs, if there shall ap ear to be a suﬁiciency for the same,
otherwise for so much as shall appear to be in such per
son’s hands; and in case it shall appear, by the oaths of
the garnishees, that several fpersons who have been serv
ed with copies of writs as a oresaid shall have of the per
donal estate of the defendant in their hands, that then the
plaintifff, after jud ment obtained, may have his action
against either or all of such persons, as far as will satisfy
said judgment, interest and costs, and no further: Provid
ed always, That the person or persons served with a copy
as abovesaid, may after ﬁnal jud ment againt the absent
or concealed person, satisfy suc judgment, or any part
thereof to the amount of the property attached in his
hands before any action shall be brought against him
therefore.
Sec. 3. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That if any person or
persons, after having been served with a copy of such
writ against any absent or concealed person as aforesaid,
shall refuse or neglect to make oath as aforesaid, of what
personal estate he or they had of the defendant in his or
their hands, at the time of the service of any such copy, the
erson or persons so neglecting or refusing shall be lia
ble to satisfy the judgment that shall be obtained against
any such absent or concealed person, out of his or their
proper estate, to be recovered by a special action of the
case : Provided alwa s, That if it shall happen that several persons shall neglect or refuse to render an account.
upon oath as aforesaid, in the same case, that then the
action shall be brought jointly against all such persons,
and in no other manner. Sec.
4. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That any attorney,
agent, factor, trustee or debtor, who shall be served with
a copy of a writ against any defendant as aforesaid, shall
have liberty to ﬁle an answer to such action, and defend
the suit in behalf and in the name of the defendant; and
in case such action shall be answered, the court, if the
defendant shall not return into this State, shall continue.
the action for one term; and if it shall appear, by the oath
of the person or persons who have been served with a
copy of any writ as aforesaid, that he or they have not
any of the personal estate of the defendant in their hands,
that then such action shall be -dismissed, and the person
who shall appear to defend said suit shall recover his
costs.
Sec. 5. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That every person served with a copy of a writ for attachin the estate of another in his hands, shall be paid all law ul costs and charges
which he shall be at, in consequence of his being served
with such writ of attachment, by the person who brings
the action; and that so much of the said charge as shall
be judged reasonable by the court before whom the cause
shall be pending, shall be allowed in the bill of cost.
Sec. 6. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That the same proceedings respecting foreign attachments shall be observed in
justices’ courts as others: Provided always, That this act,
or any thing therein contained,~shall not extend, or be
deemed to extend, to attach any sum or sums of money
1n the hands of any person who became indebted by bill
of exchange, or hath given his negotiable promissory note
for the same.
Sec. 7. ﬂnd be itfurlher enacted, That whenever it shall
appear by the oath or affirmation of any person or persons
served with the copy of any writ, as provided for by the
ﬁrst section, that the personal estate in his or their hands
belonging to the defendant in such action, did not consist
of money, but of one or more speciﬁc articles, it shall be
lawful for such garnishee, after ﬁnal judgment shall be ren
dered against the defendant, to surrender or deliver to the
oﬂicer charged with the execution issued on said judg
ment, such speciﬁc articles, that the same may be taken
thereon, and which shall be a good discharge to such gar
nishee.
Sec. 8. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That mariners’ wages
shall not be liable to attachment under this act, until af
ter the termination of the voyage in which such wages
shall have been earned.
Sec. 9. ﬁnd be itfurlher enacted, That when any incor
porated company established without this State, shall be
mdebted to any person or persons, the personal estate of
- . .
such mcorporated company, lodged or lymg in the hands
or possession of any person or persons or body cor orate,
shall be liable to be attached, to answer any just ebt or
demand ; and the serving any erson or persons or body
corporate, in whose hands suc ersonal estate may be
lodged or lying as aforesaid, wit a copy of a writ as is
hereafter prescribed, shall be a good service thereof.
Sec. 10. ./Ind be it further enacted, That whenever any
. . .
wnt shall be sued out agamst any such mcorporated com
pany, for the purpose of attaching their personal estate as
aforesaid, the plaintifff or his attorney shall, on the back
of said writ, direct the officer who may be charged with
the service thereof, to attach the personal estate of the de
fendants in the hands or possession of the person or per
sons, or body corporate, with whom the same may be
lodged or lying; and the leaving an attested copy of said
writ, with a copy of the otﬁcer's return thereon with such
person or persons, and in case of a body corporate, if a
ank, with the cashier thereof, if an insurance company,
with the president or secretary thereof, and if any other
corporate body, with the treasurer thereof, or person exe
cuting the duties of treasurer, shall be suﬁicient to attach
said personal estate, and the same shall be thereby held
to answer the said debt or demand.
Sec. 11. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That whenever any
body corporate within this State, shall be served with the
copy of a writ as aforesaid, it shall be the duty, if a bank,
of the cashier thereof, if an insurance company, of the
president or secretary thereof, and if any other cor orate
body, of the treasurer thereof, or person executin t e du
ties of treasurer, so served with a copy as aforesai , to ren
der an account upon oath of what personal estate said
body corporate had in their hands or possession at the
time said writ was served, if any, or otherwise that they
had not, directly or indirectly any such estate in their
hands; which oath shall be made in the same manner as
is prescribed in the ﬁrst section of this act.
Sec. 12. ﬁnd be it ﬁuther enacted, That whenever the
personal estate of any incorporated company establishedwithout this State, shall be attached as aforesaid, the same
proceedings shall be had, and the rights,duties and obli
gations of the parties, and of the garnishees, shall be the
same as is before provided in other cases by this act.
Sec. 13. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That whenever any
body corporate established without this State, or when
ever any person or persons shall reside or be absent out
of this State, or shall conceal himself, herself or themselves therein, the stock or shares of any such body corpo
rate, person or persons, in any bank, insurance company,
or other incorporated company within this State, shall be
liable to be attached to answer any just debt or demand '
and whenever any writ shall be sued out as aforesaid, the
plaintifff or his attorney shall, on the back of said writ,
direct the officer who may be charged with the service
thereof, to attach the defendant’s stock or shares in such
incorporated company; and the leaving an attested copy
of such writ, with a copy of the oﬂicer’s return thereon, if
a bank, with the cashier thereof, if an insurance company.
with the president or secretary thereof, and if any other
corporate body, with the treasurer thereof, or person ex
ecuting the duties of treasurer, shall be suﬂicient to at
tach such defendant’s stock or shares in said company,
and she same shall be held to answer the said debt or de
man .
Sec. 14. ﬁnd be itfurther enacted, That whenever any incorporated company as aforesaid shall be served with a
copy of such wnt as aforesaid, it shall be the duty, if a
bank, of the cashier thereof, if an insurance com any, of
the president or secretary thereof, and if any ot er cor
porate body, of the treasurer thereof, or person executin
the duties of treasurer, to render an account upon oath
to the court to which said writ shall be returnable, of what
stock or shares the defendant or defendants had in said
company, at the time of the service of such writ as afore
said; and the said cashier, or president, or secretary, or
treasurer, or person executing the duties of treasurer, as
aforesaid, may be compelled to testify like witnesses in
other cases: and when execution issues against the de
fendant or defendants, for any such debt or demand, the
oﬂicer charged therewith shall serve a copy ofthe same,
with his return thereon, if a bank, u on the cashier there
of, if an insurance company, upon the president or secre
tary thereof, and if any other corporate body, upon the
treasurer thereof, or erson executing the duties of treas
urer, which shall be eemed a good and suﬂicient levy of
such execution upon the stock or shares of the defendant
or defendants in such company; and said stock or shares
shall be advertised and sold (or so much thereof as may
be necessary in the same manner as other personal prop
erty attache on execution; and a deed or deeds there
of, given by the sheriff aforesaid, shall vest in the purchas
er or purchasers all the defendant’s right, title and inter
est in such stock or shares so sold as aforesaid; and said
deed ordeeds shall be duly recorded by the recording
oﬂicer of such company.
Sec. 15. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That the stock or shares
of any body corporate established without this State, or
of any person or rsons whatsoever in any incorporated _
company within t is State, shall be liable to be attached
on execution duly obtained, like other personal property ;
and such execution being directed to the proper otﬁcer,
accordin to law, he may levy the same in the manner set
forth in t e preceding section, u on any such stock or
shares of the defendant or defendants to be found within
his precinct; and shall proceed to advertise and sell and
give deeds thereof, in the manner therein prescribed.
Sec. 16. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That nothing in this
act contained shall be construed to destroy or im air any
lien or claim which any incorporated company a oresaid,
or any person or persons whatsoever, may have upon any
such stock or shares so attached or levied upon as afore
said ; but the said lien or claim aforesaid shall be and re
main as if this act had not been passed. ti ..
9
ﬁn act establishing and regulating fees.
Sncnon 1. Be it enacted by the General ﬁssembly, and
by the authority thereof it is enacted, That the fees of the
several oﬁicers, for the services hereinafter mentioned,
be as follows, to wit :
The justices _of the supreme judicial court shall be allowed,
For every writ granted out of term, 0 25
For every bill of cost allowed, 0 10
The justices of the courts of common pleas shall be allowed,
For the entry of every action or petition, 1 00
For every special court called, if an answer be ﬁled,
and the justices meet, 3 0
But if no answer be ﬁled, 1 0
For every warrant granted out of term, 0 25
For every bill of cost allowed, 0 10
The secretary shall be allowed, For every bond, 0 15
For every petition to the general assembly, 0 12
For all copies, for every lawful age, 0 10
For making a certiﬁcate, and xing the seal of the
State to any writing, wherein the State is not con
cerned, 0 75
For searching the records by the hour, 0 10
For allowing each bill of cost upon petitions to the
general assembly, 0 10
The attorney-general shall be aﬂowod,
For every bill of indictment drawn and found by
the grand jury, 1 50
For discharge of every person on bond to the peace, 0 35
For every cause argued to the court or jury, upon
issue joined in law or fact, on behalf of the State,
in criminal cases, 3 0
For every day’s attendance on the general assembly
and courts, to be proved by a certiﬁcate from the
secretary and the respective clerks of the several
courts, and paid out of the general treasury, l , 0
' The clerk of the house of representatives shall be allowed,
For attending the general assembly by the day, 3 0
For the entry of every petition, 0 12
For taxing a bill of cost upon petition to the general
assembly, ' 0 10
And in all other cases, the same fees as the clerks of
the supreme judicial court,
The cler/7-9 °f the supreme judicial court shall be allowed,
For the entry Of every wnt, action or petition, 0 25
For ﬁling every reason of appeal, petition, motion,
lea or answer, 0 4
or every interlocutory judgment,
For all copies for evey lawful page,
For every action calle ,
For drawing and recording ﬁnal judgment upon
nihil dicit,
Where the general issue is pleaded,
And in all cases where there are further pleadings,
For swearin every witness,
For a writ o execution and indorsements,
For every other writ,
For entering a rule of court,
For copying writ and rule to referees,
For every bond or reco nizance taken in court,
For ﬁling all other bon s or recognizances,
For every bill of indictment found,
For reading the same,
For entering plea on the same,
For drawing and readin sentence,
For drawing and recording ﬁnal judgment upon in
dictment,
For every person summoned,
For every paper in a case,
For every discontinuance or default,
For discharge of every bond or recognizance,
For every petition read in court,
For recording judgment thereon,
For every citation or notiﬁcation,
For searching the records by the hour,
For attending the court by the day,
For acknowledging satisfaction of judgment upon
record,
For recording return of partition,
For taxing and examining the bill of cost in every
case, 0
The clerics of the court ofcommon pleas shall be allowed,
For every original writ and seal, 0
For the entry of every action or petition, 0
For drawing and recording ﬁnal judgment upon
nihil dicit, 0
Where the general issue is pleaded,
And in all cases where there are further pleadings,
Ht:C ¢ CH5‘:
0
O
O£a;wh@Q8moQ
toram»
tn9:
Qt»
For all copies for every lawful page, _ 0 10
For every noli prosequi, discontinuance, non-suit,
retraxit, nihil dieit, or default, _ 0 5
For a writ of execution and the mdorsements, 0 25
For all other writs, other than summons for vouchers, 0 20
For every writ of summons to warrant, 0 50
For ﬁling every declaration, plea, reason of appeal,
motion or answer, 0 4
For every action called, 0 4
For entering a rule of court, 0 12
For every interlocutory judgment, '0 6
For copying rule and writ to referees, 0 40
For every bond in the clerk’s oﬂice, 0 8
And where the attorney becomes bound. the same
fee.
For every person summoned, 0 I 3
For every paper in a case, 0 2
For searching the records by the hour, 0 10
For taxing and examining the bill of cost in every
case, 0 8
For swearing every witness, 0 3
For entering appearance, 0 3
For attending the court, by the day, 0 25
For recordin every deputation or revocation
thereof by e sheriﬁ", 0 12
For acknowledging satisfaction of judgment upon
record, 0 8
For recording return of partition, I 0
The clerks of the eneral sessions of the peace shall be allowed,
For the entry 0 every indictment, 0 12
For drawing and recording ﬁnal judgment thereon, 0 50
For ﬁling'recognizance, 0 4
For drawing and ﬁling recognizance, ~ 0
For the discharge of every recognizance, 0
For a warrant for the peace, or good behavior, 0
In all other respects the same as the clerks of the
courts of common pleas, excepting that they shall
not be allowed compensation by the day.
Justices of the peace and wardens shall be allowed,
For every writ upon note or book account, 0 12
For every other original writ, 0 25
For the entry of every action, 0 6
For every summons for witnesses, 0 4
For annexing an account, 0 3
For administering an oath or aﬂirmation, 0 3
I-lbl
For judgment, _
For recording the same, or reco izanc_e,
Fora bond to the peace, or goo behavior,
For an appeal bond, ‘
For a writ of execution and mdorsement,
For a bond or recognizance other than to the peace
or good behavior,
For all copies, for every lawful page,
For taking the acknowledgment of any instrument
of one or more persons at the same time,
For every paper in a case,
For a complamt and warrant,
For drawing and taxing a bill of cost,
For a warrant of distress for collecting ﬁnes for
breaches of the militia law,
For enterin a rule of court,
§7w courts ifprobate shall be allowed,
For the probate of every will granting letters testa
mentary thereon and allowing the bond of the ex
ecutor, l 0
For the ﬁling of every will proved out of the State, I 0
For granting letters of administration on every in
testate estate and allowing the bond of the ad
ministrator, l 0
For every warrant of appraisement and swearing
the appraisers,
For receiving and allowing an inventory and swear
ing the executor, administrator or guardian, exhi
biting the same, when the amount thereof shall
be less than one hundred dollars,
If amounting to one hundred dollars and not exceed
ing ﬁve hundred dollars,
If over ﬁve hundred dollars and not exceeding one
thousand dollars, I 0
If over one thousand dollars, one tenth of one per
cent. not exceeding in any case, 50 0
For receiving and allowing an account of an ex
ecutor, administrator or guardian, and swearing
the person or persons exhibiting the same,
For granting letters of guardianship over minors,
idiots, or persons non compos mentis, compre
hending one or more,
For granting a warrant for dividing real estate or
assigning dower, and swearing persons appointed
thereon,
CO666°0000660
'
H
Mb?N)
¢°¢Q
Id
DO
camhmwm
025
025
050
025
O50
O25
For receiving and allowing a division of real estate
or assignment of dower, 0 50
To each decree of said court, other than aforesaid, 0 25
To the persons appointed to appraise and divide
estate or assign dower of persons deceased, each
by the day, l 0
The town-clerks, clerks of the town-councils, and clerks qfpro
bate shall be allowed,
For entering a caveat against the probate of a
will, or granting letters of administration,
For citation to the parties concerned,
For taking bond and granting letters of administra
tion or testamentary,
For registering and cop ing for every lawful page,
to be paid in advance 1 'requested,
For receiving and ﬁling a certiﬁcate of attachment
of real estate,
For every summons or citation other than the above, 0 6
For a bond and letter of license for keeping tavern, 0 33
For drawing the probate of a will or allowance of
an inventory or an account, 0 10
For recording every certiﬁcate of marriage and
certifying the same, 0 12
For recording every birth or death, 0 6
For searching the records by the hour, 0 10
For a certiﬁcate acknowledging the inhabitancy of
any person, 0 10
The public notaries shall be allowed
For drawing a protest and re istering the same (ex
cept for some ank withint is State,) . 1 50
For swearing witnesses relative to the same, each, 0 5
For recording all instruments for every lawful page, 0 10
For taking the acknowledgement of any instrument
and aﬁixmg his seal, 0 25
For noting a protest for any bank as aforesaid, 0 25
For extendin and registering the same at the re- .
quest of the lgiolder, 0 50
The shergfs shall be allowed,
For serving a writ, if not more than amile from the
place of appearance, 0 20
If more than a mile, 0 16
For his travel in serving any writ, summons, war
rant, execution or process, per mile, 0 4
To be computed from the place of service to the
place where the same is returnable; and if more
06
016
O50
010
010'
persons than one are named therein, the travel
shall be computed from the place where the same
is returnable to the place of service, which shall
be nearest, adding thereto the extra travel which
shall be necessary to serve it on the others.
For the copy of a writ or warrant, not to be taxed
unless actually given, 0 10
For a bail bond in civil actions, 0 12
And where bail is taken by indorsement on the writ,
the same fee.
For committing a prisoner on mesne process, 0 20
For attending a justice’s court by the day, 0 25
For serving all executions where the party is com
mitted to jail, 0 70
For serving all executions where the money due
thereon is collected, not exceeding four dollars 0 30
Ifabove four dollars and not exceeding seven dollars, 0 40
If above seven dollars and not exceeding twenty
dollars,
lf above twenty dollars and not exceeding thirty
dollars,
If above thirty dollars and not exceeding sixty
dollars,
If above sixty dollars and not exceeding one hun
dred dollars,
And for all executions above one hundred dollars,
one per cent. _
None of the lesser to be included in the greater.
For serving a summons, if not more than a mile from
the court-house or place of appearance,
If more than a mile, the same travelling fees as for
serving writs.
For delivering possession of lands and tenements,
while actually employed by the day,
For advertising real or personal estate to be sold at
Fpublic auction,
or selling at public auction real or personal es
tate, if under one hundred and fifty dollars, two
per cent. ; if over one hundred and ﬁfty dollars and
under three hundred dollars, one and a half per
cent. ; and for all sums over three hundred dollars,
one per cent. to be computed on the amount of the
sales, and none of the lesser sums to be included
in the greater.
060
066
075
090
012
I 0
034
For serving warrants and other criminal processes,
the same as for serving writs, unless the court to
which such warrant or process shall be returnable
shall deem it reasonable to make a further allow
ance for extra services.
For the personal attendance of the sheriff on the
general assembly, supreme judicial court, and
courts of common pleas, by the day, 1 0
Town-sergeants and constables shall be allowed,
For serving a writ, if not more than a mile from the
place of appearance, 0 20
If more than a mile, 0 16
For every mile’s travel, the same as is allowed to
sheriffs.
For a bail bond in civil actions, 0 12
And where bail is taken by endorsement on the
writ, the same fee.
For a copy of a writ or warrant, 0 10
For serving executions, the same as the sheriff
For committing a prisoner on mesne process, 0 20
For serving a summons and travel, the same as the
sheriff
For attending the general assembly, supreme judi
cial court, and courts of common pleas, by the day, 1 0
For actually attending a justice’s court, by the day, 0 25
The serving a warrant or other criminal process,
the same as for servin a writ, unless the court to
which the same shall e returnable shall deem it
reasonable to make a further allowance for extra
services.
Jailers shall be allowed,
For taking custody of each prisoner committed, 0 25
For every risoner discharged, and entering the
same on t e jail books, 0 25
For each bond for liberty of prison-yard, drawn
and furnished by the jailer, 0 25
For board of State prisoners, by the week, 1 0
The coroner shall be allowed,
For taking every inquisition, 1 0
Besides the above fee, for every day employed
therein, 1 0
Other fees allowed in court,
For the writ and declaration, 1
O
Attorney’s and counsel’s fee, in the court of com
mon pleas, 1 0
In the supreme judicial court, one only to be taxed
in the bill of cost, 2 0
For the attendance of every witness, by the day‘, 0 40
For his travel coming, per mile, 0 4
For the attendance of the party recovering judg
ment, by the day, 0 12
And but two days to be allowed in a nihil dicit case.
For the travel of every plaintifff or defendant re
covering cost, per mile, 0 4
For the entry of every action in the supreme judi
cial court, 3 0
For the entry of every petition in ditto, 2 0
For the entry of every motion for a new trial in dit
to, 2 0
Sec. 2. ﬁnd be it m-ther enacted, That every olﬁcer in
this State, who shal serve any process, civil or criminal,
shall endorse thereon the several items which constitute
the amount of his fees; and that on failure thereof, the
same shall not be taxed in any bill of cost, nor be recov
erable by law. '
Sec. 3. ﬁnd be itfurlher enaclcd, That every witness, previous to his obtaining the fees allowed for witnesses in this
act, shall give a certiﬁcate to the clerk of the court where
in his attendance is given, certifying the number of days
he shall have attended, and the number of miles he shall
have travelled, in pursuance of asummons issued for that
purpose, which certiﬁcate shall be subject to the exami
nation of such court; and such allowance shall be made
thereon as shall be lawfully due,
Sec. 4. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That it shall be the
duty of every oﬁicer appointed and empowered to tax
and allow costs, to conform strictly to this act; and to dis
allow and reject all such unlawful fees as may be charg
ed by any oﬂicer or other person. .
Sec. 5. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That in all civil actions
or complaints for ﬂowage, brought by or against any ﬁrm,
company or copartnership, costs for travel and attendance
of org: only of the parties recovering judgment shall be
taxe . ‘
Sec. 6. ﬁnd be it -urther enacted, That whenever hereaf
ter any petitioner or the beneﬁt of the act, entitled “ an
act for the relief of insolvent debtors,” shall, upon the re
ception of his petition, be liberated from jail, on condition
that he give bond to return again, in case the prayer there
of should not be granted, or be discharged by the court
upon making an assignment of his property, he shall, be
fore his liberation as aforesaid, pay to the jailer in whose
custody he may be, the sums which may be due to said
jailer, on account of his prison fees, and other incidental
charges, Which may have accrued on such commitment.
Sec. 7. ﬁnd be itfurther enacted, That in criminal cases,
the fees of justices of the peace shall in all instances bethe same as in civil cases, except for a warrant, which
shall be twenty-ﬁve cents: and that the attendance and
fees of sheriffs, deputy-sheriﬂ's, town-sergeants and con-'
stable in'a criminal process, shall be no more than double
the fees for serving civil process, to be allowed at the dis
cretion of the court before whom such process shall be
returned.
 
. . . . . .
' ﬂu act relatzng to bazl on mesne process, m cm! actzons.
Sscnon 1. Be it enacted by the General ﬂssembly, and by
the authority thereof it is enacted, That all sheriff's, deputysheriffs, town-sergeants and constables, who shall arrest
any person by virtue of any original writ or mesne process,
in a civil action, shall let the person so arrested to
bail, upon his givin suﬂicient surety, in manner by this
act prescribed, for his ap earancc at the court to which
such writ or process shal be returnable, and to abide
the ﬁnal judgment which shall be rendered thereon.
Sec. 2. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That the person becoming bail for any person or persons, shall give bond to
the sheriff, if the writ or rocess shall be served by the
sheriff or his deputy; and if the writ or process shall be
served by a town-sergeant or constable, the bail bond in
such case shall be given to the person serving the same :
or the person becoming ‘bail as aforesaid, may endorse his
christian and surname on the back of the writ or process,
which shall hold him as bail for all the purposes men
tioned in this act: and any person committed to jail by
virtue of an arrest on any original writ or mesne processin any civil action, may be let to bail at any time before
the rendering of judgment in chief in the case of such
writ, in manner as above prescribed.’
SE0. 3. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That the person or
persons who shall become bail as aforesaid, shall have a
right at any time before ﬁnal judgment shall be rendered
on the original writ or process, to bring the principal in
to court, in which the same shall be pending, and to de
liver him into the custody thereof, and be thereby dis
charged: and it shall also be lawful for the bail afore
said, at any time before ﬁnal judgment upon scire facias
against him, to commit to the jail in the county where
such arrest was made, or in that in which the writ is re
turnable, the rincipal for whom he has become bound,
leaving with the jailer of such county, at the time of such
commitment, an attested copy of the writ or process
whereby the arrest was made, and of the return endorsed
thereon; and such jailer is hereby authorized and re
quired to receive the' person so committed into custody,
in the same manner as if he had been committed by the
oﬁicer making the arrest; and the bail so committing the
principal shall notify the plaintifff in the original suit, or
is attorney, in writing, of the time when, and the place
where, the principal has been committed, within ten days
of the time of such commitment; and the bail so com
mitting the principal as aforesaid, shall ever after be dis
charged from all responsibility as bail, as aforesaid; but
if the bail shall not bring the principal into court as afore
said, or commit him or her to jail as aforesaid, such bail
shall be obliged to satisfy the judgment which may be
or hath been rendered on such writ or process, out of his,
her or their own estate, in case of the principal’s avoid
ance, and a return of non est inventus on the execution
that shall be issued thereon.
Sec. 4. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That when the prin
cipal shall avoid, so that his, her or their goods and chat
te s cannot be found to satisfy the execution, nor the
body or bodies found, to be taken thereby, the plaintifff
in the original suit shall be entitled to his writ of scire
facias against the bail, from the same court wherein
judgment was rendered against the principal ; and in case
no legal cause is shewn to the contrary, judgment shall
be given against the bail for the damages and costs re
covered against the principal, with interest and costs,
and execution shall be awarded accordingly: Provided
. . . . .
however, lf the bail shall brmg the principal into court, or
commit him, her or them to jail, as aforesaid, before ﬁnal
judgment is given on the writ of scire facias, and ay all
the costs that may have accrued thereon, then t e bail
shall be discharged and the principal be committed to
jail or if already committed as aforesaid) there to remain
for t e space of thirty days after the rising of such court,
in order to be taken on execution: and if the creditor
shall not, within thirty days next after the rising of such
court, take the principal in execution, the sheriff‘ shall
discharge him, her or them, on paying the prison fees:
ﬁnd provided further, That in case more than one year
and a day shall have elapsed since the return of execu
tion against the prhicipal, before the surrender or com
mitment by the bail, the creditor shall have his execution,
to the end that the principal may be taken thereon, not
withstanding more than a year and a day shall have elaps
ed since the return of the former execution.
Sec. 5. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That no writ of scire
facias shall be served upon the bail, unless it be within
two years next after the entering up of ﬁnal judgment
against the principal; and every such service shall be
by reading the same to him, or leaving an attested copy
thereof at his, her or their last and usual place of abode.
Sec. 6. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That the bail may have
remedy, by action on the case, against his, her or their
principal, for all damages sustained by his, her or their
becoming sureties as aforesaid.
Sec. 7. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That if any person or
persons be committed to jail for want of bail on mesne
process in a civil action, and ﬁnal judgment shall be ren
dered against him, her or them, in such suit, he, she or
they shall be detained in such jail for the space of thirty
days after the rising of the court at which such ﬁnal
judgment shall be rendered, in order to ‘be taken in exe
cution; and if the creditor shall not, within thirty days
after the rising of such court, take the principal in execu
tion, the sheriff shall discharge him, her or them, upon
paying the legal prison fees.
ﬁn act for the relief of poor persons imprisoned for debt.
SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General ﬁssemblz , and the
authority thereof it is enacted, That it shall and may be aw
ful for the sheriffs of the several counties, to grant or al
low unto any person imprisoned for debt, either upon
mesne process or execution, or for non-payment of any
' 'tary ﬁne, or town and state taxes, or upon surrender
ommitment by bail, or by former sureties for the lib
erty of the jail-yard, a chamber or lodging in any of the
houses or apartments belonging to such prison, and lib
erty of the yard within the limits thereof, upon reasona
ble payment to be made for chamber room; such pris
oner ﬁrst giving bond to the creditor, with two suﬂicient
sureties, being inhabitants of and freeholders within this
State, bounden jointly and severally in double the sum
for which he or she is imprisoned, with condition in form
following, viz: “ That if the above bounden, now
a prisoner in the State jail in within the county
of at the suit of do and shall from
henceforth continue and be a true ‘prisoner in the custo
dy, guard and safe keeping of keeper
of the said prison, and in the custody, guard and safe
keeping of his deputy, ofﬁcers and ser
vants, or some one of them, within the limits of the said
prison, until he shall be lawfully discharged, without
committing any manner of escape or escapes during the
term of his (or her) restraint, then this obligation to be
void, or else to remain in full force and virtue :” And in
case the creditor shall put the said bond in suit, and shall
obtain jud ent thereon, for the breach of the condition
aforesaid, e shall recover his just debt, with the interest
from the time judgment was rendered in the original suit,
and twelve per cent. thereon for his damages; and the
court shall render judgment accordingly.
Sec. 2. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That any one of the
Narragansett tribe of Indians, committed to jail for debt,
upon mesne process or execution, shall be considered as
a poor prisoner within the true intent and meaning of this
act, notwithstanding such prisoner may have estate real
or personal in common with the said tribe or otherwise;
and shall be entitled to and may receive all the beneﬁts
and advantages hereof.
Sec. 3. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That any person or
persons who shall become surety or sureties in any bond
given by any debtor for the liberty of the jail-yard as
aforesaid, shall have a_ right at any time to deliver up the
principal in said bond to the sheriff of the county in
which such debtor may have been committed, or to the
keeper of the jail therein, to be recommitted to close
prison ; and it shall be the duty of the sheriff or keeper
of such jail, upon such surrender of the principal by the
surety or sureties as aforesaid, to recommit such pri '
pa], and him or her detain, in the same manner as tho
he or she had not been liberated on bond, until he or
she shall give other bond with sureties to the satisfaction
of said sheritﬁ or be otherwise discharged according to
law; and the surety or sureties having so delivered up
the principal as aforesaid, shall not be liable for any es
cape thereafter committed by the principal aforesaid.
Sec. 4. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That when any bond
given for the enlargement of any prisoner as aforesaid,
shall be put in suit and judgment recovered thereon, the
parties thereto shall not be entitled to relief from any of
the provisions hereinbefore contained; but he or they
shall be committed to close jail, there to remain until the
execution shall be paid, or until he or they be discharg
ed by the creditor or creditors therein named, or other
wise by order of law.
See. 5. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That any person conﬁned in any prison, who may hereafter give bond for the
liberty of the yard, pursuant to this act, may and shall
be at liberty thereafter to pass over any highway, or
into any houses, lands or tenements or public buildings,
within the exterior limits of the yard as established by
law, and to abide and remain therein, without being deem
ed to have committed an escape or forfeited such bond:
Provided however, That nothing herein contained shall be
construed to authorize any trespass upon the property
or possession of the owner or tenant of any such houses,
lands or tenements whatever.
Sec. 6. ./ind be it further enacted, That no action shall
be hereafter maintained for the breach of any bond givenfor the liberty of the yard as aforesaid, unless the same
be brought within one year from and after such breach
committed.
Sec. 7. ﬁnd be itfurther enacted, That if any person imprisoned for either of the causes in the ﬁrst section of this
act prescribed, shall complain to any judge of the court
of common pleas, or justice of the peace in the county
where such person shall be committed, that he hath no
estate, real or personal, wherewith to su port himself in
prison, or to pay prison charges, and sffall request the
privilege and beneﬁt prescribed by this act, such judge
or justice shall forthwith issue a notiﬁcation to the cred
itor, if within this State, or if such creditor does not live
within the State, then to his agent or attorney within this
. . .
State, to appear at such time and place as the sand judgle
‘justice shall appoint, to shew cause, if any he hat ,
y the person complaining as aforesaid should not have
the beneﬁt of this act; which notiﬁcation shall be served
on the creditor, his ent or attorney as aforesaid, seven
days at least beforeadie time appointed as aforesaid, by
readin the same to him, or by caving an attested copy
thereofat his last and usual place of abode, by the ‘sher
illl his deputy or either of the town-sergeants or consta
bles in the county in which such creditor, his agent or
attorney, shall reside; and any one of the jud es of the
court of common leas and any one justice of t e peace
in said county, w 0 shall be disinterested, and not relat
ed to either ofthe parties, are hereby empowered at the
time and place appointed as aforesaid, to examine the
return of said notification; and if it shall appear to have
been duly served, to administer the oath or affirmation
hereinafter prescribed, to the party imprisoned as afore
said; if after fully examining the prisoner under oath,
and hearing the parties, the said justices shall think it
proper so to do; which oath or affirmation shall be as
follows:
I do solemnly swear, for aﬁirm,)_ that I have not any
estate, real or personal, in possession, remamder or re
version, over ten dollars, and that I have not, since the
commencement of this suit against me, or at any other
time, directly, or indirectly sold, leased or otherwise con
veyed or disposed of to, or entrusted any erson or per
sons whomsoever with, all or any part of tlie estate, real
or personal, whereof I have been the lawful owner or
possessor, with any intent or design to secure the same,
or to receive or to expect any proﬁt or advantage there
from, for myself or any of my children or family, or have
caused or suffered to be done any thing else whatsoever,
whereby any of my creditors may be defrauded: so help
me God ! or this affirmation 1 make and give upon peril
of the penalty of perjury : Which oath or affirmation bein
admimstered by the said justices to, and taken by such
prisoner, and a certiﬁcate thereof made under the hands
and seals of the said justices administering the same, to
. .
the keeper of such prison, the pnsoner shall thereupon
be discharged therefrom, if he is not committed for any
other cause : Provided however, That any housekeeper,
imprisoned as aforesaid, shall be allowed to avail himself
of the provisions of this act, if he will make oath as afore
said, that he hath not any estate, real or personal, in pos
session, remainder or reversion, except what is exem “from attachment by law; and the said justices are he I
by authorized to vary the form of the oath aforesaid ac
cordingly; and the certiﬁcate to be made by the justices
aforesaid shall be in the form following, viz:
sc. To keeper of the jail at F
in the county of t
We the subscribers, authorized by the statute in such
case made and provided, do certify that a
poor prisoner, conﬁned upon mesne process, (or other
wise as the case may be,) in the prison at
aforesaid, hath caused the party at
whose suit he was so conﬁned, to be notiﬁed according to
law, of his the said . desire of taking
the beneﬁt of-an act entitled “ an act for the relief of
poor persons, imprisoned for debt ;” that in our opinion
the said hath not any estate, either
real or personal, (except what is exempt from attachment
by law,) suﬂicient to support himself in prison, and that
he hath not conveyed or concealed his estate, with de
sign to secure the same to his own use, or to defraud his
creditors; and that we have, after due caution, to the
said administered to him the oath
or aﬁirmation prescribed in the act aforesaid.
Witness our hands and seals this day of
A. D.
of common pleas,
Justice of the court
county of
Justice of the peace.
Sec. 8. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That if any such risoner
as aforesaid shall be convicted on indictment of aving sold, leased or otherwise concealed or disposed of,
- or entrusted his or her estate, or any part thereof, directly or indirectly, contrary to his or her oath or aﬁirmation
aforesaid, he or she shall not only be liable to the pains
and penalties of willful perjury, but shall receiveno bene
ﬁt from said oath or aﬂirmation; and in case such pris
oner at the time of the intended caption shall not take
the said oath or aﬂirmation, or be not admitted thereto
by the said justices, he or she shall be remanded back to
prison, and shall not be entitled to the beneﬁt of this act
nless a new notiﬁcation be made out and served in man
¢r aforesaid.
' Sec. 9. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That all and every
judgment obtained against any such prisoner shall, not
withstanding such discharge as aforesaid, be and remain
good and effectual in law to all intents and purposes
against any property or estate attachable thereon by law,
and the creditor, his agent or attorney, executor or ad
ministrator, may- take out a new execution on such judg
ment, which shall run only against such property or es
tate for the satisfaction of the debt and cost, in the same
manner as though the said prisoner had never been taken
in execution; and if the prisoner be confined on mesne
process, and discharged as before provided, the judgment
in such suit shall be rendered against the property of the
debtor, and execution issue accordingly. .
‘ Sec. 10. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That if any sheriﬁl dep
uty-sheriff, town-sergeant, constable or keeper of any
jail, shall take or receive from any prisoner in his or
their custody, any bond, obli ation, covenant, promise or.
assurance whatsoever; to in emnify and save harmless
the person taking the same, for the enlargement or case
of such prisoner, in any other form or manner than is
prescribed by law for taking bail on mesne process, in a
civil action, or is prescribed in this act for the ease ot
prisoners conﬁned for the causes therein mentioned, eve
ry such bond, obligation, covenant, promise or assurance
whatever, shall be utterly void.
 
ﬁn act directing the process upon writs of habeas corpus,
VVhereas the writ of habeas corpus is a writ of right, to
which the citizens of this State are, by the law of the land,
at all times entitled, to obtain relief from every wrongful
imprisonment, or unlawful restraint of personal liberty:
Scenes 1. Be it therq"ore enacted the General ﬁssembly,
and by the authority thereof it is enacte , That any person im
prisoned in any common jail, or otherwise restrained 01
ns personal liberty, by any officer or officers, or any oth
er person or persons, for any cause, or upon any pretense
whatever, he, or any person in his behalf, may complain
in writing to the supreme judicial court of this State, in
term time in any county, or to any one or more of tlie jus
tices thereof in the vacation of the said court; and upon
such complaint, and upon view of the'copy of the warrant (if any there be by which such person stands committed,
or upon his afli avit, certiﬁed by a justice of the peace,
or on the oath of the person applying on his behalf, or any
other credible witness, or upon the aﬁidavit of such wit
ness certiﬁed as aforesaid, if he lives more than twenty
miles from the court or judge applied to, that a copy of
such warrant has been demanded and denied, the said
court in term time, and the said jud e in the vacation,
hereby are respectively authorized and required to award
a writ of habeas corpus, directed to the otﬁcer or person
restraining or imprisoning the complainant, returnable
forthwith to such court or judge who awarded the same ;
except the complaint bein favour of persons committed
for a capital crime, or for suspicion thereof, or as accesse
ry to the same before the fact, plainly and speciﬁcally ex
pressed in the warrant of commitment, or persons convict,
or in execution by legal process, criminal or civil, or com
mitted by mesne process in any civil action for want of
sufficient bail.
Sec. 2. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That such writ, when
awarded by the said court, shall be signed by the clerk,
tested by the ﬁrst justice who is not a party thereto, and
sealed with the seal of said court; but when awarded by
any judge in the vacation, shall only be under the hand
and seal of such judge, and shall direct the place to which
the complainant shall be brought; and the form of such
writ, when awarded by the said supreme judicial court,
shall be as follows, viz:
sc. The State of Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations,
[Seal.] To greeting.
, We command you, that the body of of
in our prison, in your custod (or by you imprisoned, and
restrained of his liberty, as the case may be) as it is said,
together with the day and cause of his taking and detain
ing, by whatsoever name the said shall be called
or charged, you have before our justices of our supreme
judicial court, holden at within and for the coun
ty of immediately after the receipt of this writ, to
do and receive what our said ustices shall then and there
consider concerning him in this behalf, and have there
this writ. Witness, Esq. at this
day of in the year
r_' And the like form shall be used by the judge, mutatis
mutandis, when such writ shall be awarded by him: Provided,
That nothing in this act contained shall be con
strued to hinder or restrain the said supreme judicial court
Clerk.
in term, or any one or more justices thereof in the va
cation, from bailing any person whatever, and for what
ever offense committed, at their discretion, whenever the
circumstances of the case shall ap ear to require it; er
sons committed by either house ofPassembly, during their
session, for contempt, or other legal cause, always ex
ce ted.
gee. 3. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That when any per
son shall bring and offer such writ of habeas corpus to the
officer or person to whom the same shall be directed, he
shall receive the same; and upon payment or tender of
such charges for bringing the complainant from the place
of imprisonment, as the court or judge who grants the
writ shall order, if the person complaining be conﬁned in
a common jail, or under the custody of an oﬂicer, other
wise without such payment or tender (to the place men
tioned in the writ) such ofﬁcer or person shall have the
body of the complainant before the court or judge award
ing the writ, unless committed and detained for some cap
ital crime as aforesaid, at the place therein mentioned,
within three days; and shall return the same, and certify
thereon the true and all the cause or causes of his or her
taking and detaining.
Sec. 4. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That if after the award
ing such writ by any judge of the supreme judicial court
in vacation, but before the return thereof, the said court
shall sit in any county, the said writ, with the body of the
complainant, and causes of taking and detaining, may be
returned, had and certified to the said court, by the judge
who awarded the same; but if after awarding such writ
by the said court in term, but before the return thereof,
the said court shall rise or be adjourned, the same, with
the body of the complainant, and causes of taking and de
taining, shall be returned, had and certiﬁed before some
judge of the said supreme judicial court.
Sec. 5. ﬁnd be itfurther enacted, That when any person
shall be brought by writ of habeas corpus as aforesaid be
fore the said court, or any judge thereof, such court or
judge shall, within three days after, proceed to examine
the said causes, and if committed for an offense or cause
bailable by law, they shall bail him, by recognizing him
with sufficient surety or sureties in a reasonable sum, hav
ing regard to his circumstances, and the nature of the of
fence, to appear at such court as shall have cognizance
of the offense; and shall certify the recognizance into
such court, if committed upon mesne rocess in any civil
action for want of bail; and if the bai required shall ap
pear excessive, it shall be ascertained what bail is rea
sonable, and he shall be discharged on giving the same;
but if it shall appear that the complainant is imprisoned
or restrained without due order of law, or suﬂicient cause,
he shall be discharged from such commitment or re
straint.
Sec. 6. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That if any oﬁicer in P
whose custody any prisoner shall be, shall not, within six {
hours after demand made, deliver such prisoner a true
copy of the warrant or process by which e stands com
mitted, such officer shall forfeit to the party aggrieved,
the sum of one hundred dollars.
Sac. 7. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That if any oﬂicer or
person to whom any writ of habeas corpus shall be directed, shall refuse to receive the same, or after receipt
thereof, shall refuse or neglect to yield such obedience
thereto as this act requires (the complainant performing
the conditions required) unless prevented by the sickness
of the prisoner or other necessity, he, for such refusal or
neglect, in each and every particular, shall forfeit to the
party aggrieved, the sum of one hundred dollars; and for
any false return to such writ, shall be liable to the party
for his damages.
Sec. 8. ﬁnd be it urlher enacted, That the court or judge
res ectively may 'urther punish every disobedience to
suc writs as for a contempt, and compel obedience thereto by process of attachment.
Sec. 9. ﬁnd be itfurlher enacted, That no person enlarged
by writ of habeas corpus shall be agam imprisoned or
restrained of his liberty for the same cause, unless he shall
be indicted therefore, or convicted thereof, or shall neglect
to ﬁnd bail when ordered thereunto by some court
of record : Provided, That no penalty established by this
act shall be construed to bar any action at common law
for false imprisonment, or unlawful restraint; and when
any person shall be unlawfully carried out of the State,
or imprisoned in any secret place, any other person shall
be permitted to appear for him, in any action brought in
his name, provided such person shall stipulate for the
payment of costs, as the court shall direct.
./‘in act reguh1ting the proceedings in replevin.
SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General ./fssembly, and by the
authority thereof it is enacted, That when any goods or
chattels shall be taken, distrained or attached, which shall
be claimed by a third person, and the person thus claim
ing the same shall think proper to rep evy them, in case
such goods and chattels are of the value of more than
twenty dollars, he may take out and prosecute his writ
of replevin from the clerk’s office of the court of common
pleas in the county where the goods and chattels are thus
taken, distrained or ‘attached, in the form following, to
wit:
sc. The State of Rhode-Island and Providence
Plantations. 7
[Seal] To the sherzﬁ‘ of our county of
his deputy, greeting.
(Or if the sheriff or his deputy are defendants, then it
shall be directed to a town-sergeant.)
We command you, that you replevy the goods and chat
tels following, viz:
(Here enumerate and particularly describe them) be
longing to of now taken, detained or
attached (as the case may be) by of
at in aforesaid, and them deliver unto
the said provided the same are not taken and
detained upon mesne process, warrant of distress, or up
on execution, as the property of the said and
summon the said that he appear before our
justices of our said court of common pleas, next to be hold
en at within and for our said county of
on the Monday of to answer unto the said
in a plea of replevin; that the said on the
day of at said unlawfully, and
without any justitiable cause, took the goods and chattels
of the said as aforesaid, and them unlawfully
detained to this day, to the damage of the said
as he says, dollars; provided he the said
shall give bond to the said with suﬂicient sure
ty or sureties, in the sum of dollars, bein twice
the value of said goods and chattels, to prosecute t e said
writ of replevin to ﬁnal judgment, and to pay such dam
ages and costs as the said shall recover against
him; and also to return and restore the same goods and
chattels, in like good order and condition as when taken,
or I0
in case such shall be the ﬁnal jud ment; and have you
there this Writ, with your doings t ereon, together with
the bond you shall take.
Witness Esq. at this day
of in the year
Clerk.
And in case the laintiﬂ' in replevin shall neglect to enter and prosecute t e suit, the defendant may, upon com
plaint, have judgment for a return and restoration of the
goods and chattels replevied, and damages for the taking,to the amount of six per cent. on the bond, with reasonable costs, and a writ of return and restitution thereu on
accordingly; and if upon trial of the issue, judgment s all
be rendered for a return and restitution, the interest of
six per cent. upon the penal sum of the bond shall be
taken as a rule for estimating the plaintiﬁ"s damages, in
case they were taken on execution, and if on mesne pro
cess, such damages as the court in their discretion shall
think reasonable; and when the cause of taking shall
have been upon execution, the goods and chattels return
ed shall be responsible for the space of twenty days after
the return, and if on mesne process, until thirty days
shall have ex ired after ﬁnal judgment thereon, in case
judgment sha l not then have been given, but if ﬁnaljudg
ment_on mesne process shall have been given before the
return, then for the space of twenty days only after the
return; to the end the creditor at whose suit they were
originally taken may have a complete remedy, and the
beneﬁt of his attachment: and the money recovered by
way of damages, by any oﬂicer who has taken and attached at the suit of a creditor, shall be considered and taken
as recovered to the use of the creditor, and when receiv
ed, be paid over to him accordingly.
Sec. 2. ﬂnrl be itfurtiwr enacted, That when the defendant in replevin cannot be found, an authentic copyr of the
writ of replevin, attested by the oﬂicer, being let at the
house or place of usual abode of the defendant, six days
if before a justice, and twenty if before the court of com
mon pleas, prior to the time of trial, shall be suﬂicient to
oblige the defendant to answer the suit.
Sec. 3. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That any justice of the
peace, in his proper county, be and he is hereby author
ized and empowered, in case the goods and chattels to be
replevied do not exceed in value the sum of twenty dol
lars, to issue a writ of replevin in manner and form_as
aforesaid ; and the form ofa writ of return and restitution
by a justice of the‘ peace shall be as follows, viz:
sc. The State of Rhode-Island and Providence
Plantations.
[Seal] To the Shenf of our county of or his
deputy, greetin .
Whereas of in our count of
lately replevied (here insert such description olythe goods
or chattels as they had in the writ of replevin) which
of in our said county ‘of had
unlawfully taken, and unjustly detained, as the said
su gested, and caused the said to be
summoned before one of our justices of the
peace, for our said county of to answer unto the
said for such supposed unlawful taking and detain
ing, at a day now passed ; and whereas upon the
day of at aforesaid, upon a hearin of the
cause of taking and detaining the said beﬁne our
said justice, it appeared that the same taking and detain
ing was lawful and justiﬁable; whereupon it was then
and there considered, that the same be returned and re
stored to the said irrepleviable ; and that the
said\ recover against the said ' the
sum of dollars damages for his taking the same, by
the said process of replevin, and the further sum of
for his costs, arisen in the defense of the said suit, as by
the said record of our said justice, before him remaining,
to us appears, whereof execution remains to be done:
we command you thereforee, that you forthwith return and
restore the same unto the said and also, that
of the money of the said or of his goods or
chattels within your precinct, you cause to be levied, paid
and satisﬁed, unto the said the aforesaid sums,
being in the whole with twenty-ﬁve cents more
for this writ, together with your own fees; and for want
of such monéy, goods or chattels of the said
to be by him shewn unto you, or found within your pre
cinct, to the acceptance of the said for satisfy
ing the aforesaid sums, we command you to take the body
ofthe said and him commit to our jail in
and we command the keeper thereof accordingly to
receive the said into our said jail, and him
safely to keep until he pay the full sums above mention
ed, with your fees, or that he be discharged by the said
the creditor, or otherwise by order of law.
Hereof fail not, and make return of this writ, with your
doings thereon, unto our said justice, within ninety days
next coming.
Witness our said justice at the day of
in the year
Sec. 4. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That when the sheriff
or other oﬂicer unto whom the writ of return and restitution shall be directed, shall not be able to ﬁnd the goods
or chattels in his precinct, which shall by the same precept
be directed to be returned and restored irreplevia
ble, and the same shall appear in writing by the return of
the officer thereon, the court from whence the same is
sued may, upon motion, grant a writ of withernam a ainst
the plaintifff in replevin, to compel a complete an spe
ciﬁc performance of the judgment; which writ of with
ernam shall be in substance as follows, viz:
so. The State of Rhode-Island and Providence
Plantations.
[Seal] To the sheri of our county of or to
his eputy, greeting.
Whereas of in our county of
lately replevied here insert such description of the
goods or chattels as t ey had in the writ of replevin) and
which were at the time of the replevy of the value of
which of aforesaid, had unlawfully
taken and detained, as the said suggested, and
caused the said to be summoned before
one of our justices of the peace for our said count
of to answer unto the said for suc
supposed unlawful taking and detaining, at a day now
passed: and whereas upon the day of at
aforesaid, upon a hearing of the cause of taking
and detaining the by our said justice, it was
determined, that the same taking and detaining was law
ful and justiﬁable, whereupon it was then and there con
sidered that the be returned and restored to the
said irrepleviable, and for his damages and
cost; and afterwards on the day of our
writ of return and restitution, issued in due form of law,
directed to the sheriff of our county of or his
deputy, to return the same accordingly, which writ of re
turn and restitution was delivered to to exe
cute accordingly; who on the day of re
turned thereon that (here insert the return made by the
officer of his inability to return the :) and we being
desirous that the said should not, by his false
suggestions and pretensions, any longer detain the
so by him replevied as aforesaid, command you forthwith
to take the of the said of like kind and
value, if any he hath, to be found in your precinct, in with
ernam; and in default thereof, any other of his goods and
chattels, to the full value, in withernam, and them deliver
unto the said to be by him kept, used and im
proved, until the said shall restore him the
he took from him, by our writ of replevin as afore
said ; and also that of the money of the said
or his goods or chattels, to be found within your precinct.
you cause to be levied and satisﬁed unto the said
twenty-ﬁve cents for this writ, together with your
own fees for executing the same. Hereof fail not, and
make return of this writ, with your doings thereon, unto
our said justice, within ninety days next ensuing. Wit
ness our said justice, at the day of
in the year
Sec. 5. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That when the writ of
return and restitution, or writ of withernam, shall issue
from any other court of law, the court from which the
same shall issue, shall so vary the form as to them shall
appear ex edicnt to carry the same into full force and
effect, as t 1e nature and circumstances of the case shall
require.
ﬁn act regulating proceedings in actions of dower, and declar
ing of what the widow shall be endowed, and the method Q/I
selling (if the same.
Secnon 1. Be it enacted b the General ﬁssembly, and by the
authority thereof it is e-nacte , That the widow of any per
son dying intestate, or otherwise, shall be endowed of one
full and equal thirdpart of all the lands, tenements and
hereditaments whereof her husband, or any other to his
use, was seized of an estate of inheritance, at any time
during the coverture, to which she shall not have relin
quished her right of dower by deed.
. Sec. 2. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That until such dower
shall be assi ed, it shall be lawful for her to remain andcontinue int e mansion-house, and the messuage thereto
belongin , without being chargeable to pay the heir anyrent for e same.
Sec. 3. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That of inheritances
that are entire, where no division can be made by metes
and bounds, so that a woman can be endowed of the
thing itself, she shall be endowed thereof in a special
and certain manner, as of a third part of the rents, issues
or proﬁts thereof, to be computed and ascertained in
manner as is by this act directed.
Sec. 4. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That the heir or other
person having the next immediate estate of freehold or
inheritance, shall, within one month next after demand
made, assign and set out to the widow of the deceased
her dower, or just third part of and in all lands, tenements
and hereditaments whereof, by law she is or may be dow
able, to her satisfaction, according to the true intendment
of law ; and in case of refusal so to do, such widow may
sue for and recover the same, by writ of dower, to be
brought against the tenant inpossession, or such persons who have or claim, right or inheritance in the same
estate, in manner and form as the law prescribes.
Sec. 5. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That upon rendering
judgment for any woman to recover her dower, in .any
lan ' s, tenements or hereditaments, reasonable damages
shall also be awarded to her from the time of the demand
and refusal to assign to her her reasonable dower, and a
writ of seizin shall be directed to the sheriffof the county,
or to his de uty, in manner and form as is by law prescribed; and t e sheriff or other person unto whom by
la.w such writ of seizin is directed, shall cause her dower
in such estate to be set forth unto her, by three disinterested
freeholders of the same county, under oath, which
oath shall be administered by any justice, to set forth the
same equally and im artially, as conveniently as may be.
Sec. 6. ﬁnd be it urther enacted, That no woman who
shall be endowed of an lands, tenements or hcredita. . . .
ments as aforesaid, shal commit or suffer any strip or
waste thereon, upon penalty of forfeiting the whole of
that art of the estate upon which such strip or waste
shall he made, and the damages assessed for waste, to
him or them who have the immediate estate of freehold
or inheritance, remainder or reversion, by an action of
waste, to be brought therefore; and all tenants in dower
shall maintain the houses and tenements, with the fences
and appurtenances whereof they may be endowed, in
good repair during the term, and shall leave the same
so at the expiration thereof; and the writs of dower and
seizin shall be in form following, to wit:
so. The State of Rhode-Island and Providence
Plantations.
[Seal] To the shen_'ﬂ' of our county of 0;
to his deputy, greeting.
We command you to summon if may
be found in your precinct, to answer the complaint of
at the next court of common leas to be
holden at within and for our said) county of
on the Monda of next
ensuin the date hereof, in an action 0 dower
as by eclaration to be ﬁled in court will be fully set
forth, to the damage of the plaintitﬁ dollars.
Hereof fail not, and make true return of this writ, with
your doings thereon. Witness, Esq. at
year
this day of in the
so. The State of Rhode-Island and Providence
‘ Plantations.
[Seal] T0 the shergf of our county of or
to hzs deputy, greeting.
“Whereas who was the wife of
late of in the county of deceased,
before our justices of our court of
holden at for the county aforesaid, on the
day of now last past, did recover seizin
against of of one third part of
a certain messuage or tenement with the appurtenances,
situate in as her dower of the endowments
of the said her certain husband, by our writ
of dower, whereof she hath nothing: thereforee we com
mand you, that to the said full seizin of one
third part of the aforesaid messuage or tenement, with the
appurtenances, you cause to be had without delay, to hold
to in severalty, by metes and bounds. We
command you also, that of the goods and chattels of the
said within your precinct, you cause to be
Clerk.
paid and'satisﬁed unto the said at the value
thereof in money, the sum of for damages
awarded her by our said court of for her bemg
holden and kept out of her dower aforesaid, and costs ex
pended on this suit, with more for this writ;
and thereof also to satisfy yourself your own fees; and
for want of goods or chattels of the said to be
by shewn unto you, or found within your precinct, to
satisfy the same, we command you to take body and
to commit to the keeper of our jail in in our
county aforesaid, within the said prison, whom we like
wise command to receive the said and
safely to kee , until pay unto the said
t e full sum abovementioned, and also satisfy
your fees. Hereof fail not, and make true return of this
writ, and how you shall have executed the same, to our
next court of to be holden
at for our said county of on the
day of next. Witness,
Esq. at the day of
in the year
Clerk.
Sec. 7. ./9nd be it further enacted, That if any estate real
or personal be conveyed by deed, or the same be devised or bequeathed, for the jointure of the wife, in lieu of
her dower, to take effect in her own ossession immedi
ately on the death of her husband, an to continue during
her life, or‘ in fee, determinable by such acts only as
would forfeit her dower at the common law, such con
veyance shall bar her dower of the residue of the lands,
tenements and hereditaments, which her said husband at
any time possessed; but if the said conveyance was before
marriage, and during the infancy of the woman, or
after marriage, in either case the widow may, at her election, waive such jointure, and demand her dower; provided
the same be done in writing, within twelve months
after the probate of the Will; but not otherwise.
Sec. 8. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That when any conveyance, intended to be in lieu of dower, shall, througany defect, fail to be a legal bar thereto, and the widow,
availing herself of such defect, shall demand her dower,
the estate so conveyed, with intention to bar her dower.
shall thereupon cease and determine.
Sec. 9. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That if any Widow be
lawfully expelled or evicted from her jointure, or any
part thereof, without any fraud or covin, by lawful entry
or action, she shall be endowed of so much of the residue
of her husband’s lands, tenements or hereditaments,
whereof she was before dowable, as the same lands, ten
ements or hereditaments, wherefrom she was so evicted
and expelled, shall amount and extend to.
Sec. 10. ./9nd be it further enacted, That widows may
bequeath the crops of their ground, as well of their dower
as oftheir other lands and tenements.
Sec. 1]. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That the courts of
probate of this State shall respectively have full power
and authority to cause dower to be assigned and set off
to any widow, in the estate or estates of which such wid
ow, by the laws of this State, is dowable ; and for that
purpose, upon the joint application in writing of all par
ties interested therein, the court of probate of the town
in which such estate lies, shall issue a_warrant, to be sign
ed by the clerk of such court, directed to three or ﬁve in
diﬁiarent and discreet men, being freemen and freehol
ders of the same town, to be appointed by said court, and
sworn faithfully to appraise said estate or estates, and as
sign and set off dower accordingly; which warrant shall
be in substance as follows, viz :
80
The State of Rhode-lsland and Providence
Plantations.
To
all freemen and freeholders of the town
of in the county of greeting.
Pursuant to the power and authonty to the court of
probate of the town aforesaid given, and by the laws of
the State aforesaid, you are hereby appointed and au
thorizcd to ap raise the real estate, to wit: all the lands,
hereditaments, whereof
tenements an
late of deceased, was seized at any time
during his intermarriage with and
wherein she has not relinquished her dower, each piece
and parcel by itself, at the true lawful value thereof in
lawful money, all in words at length. WVhen you have
perfected your appraisement, you are to set off to
the said deceased’s widow, one full third part
of the estate, so as may be convenient for her, for her
dower or thirds, during her natural life; and what you
so set offyou are to describe by plain and lasting metes
and bounds, that so confusion may be prevented upon the
reversion of the dower.
You are to be under oath, faithfully to perform the ser
vice, and when you have performed the same, you are to
make return of this warrant, with your doings thereon,
into the probate oﬁice of said town, as soon as may be.
Witness, president of the said court o
probate this day of in
the year,‘ of
And when the estate from which dower is to be set of
as aforesaid, shall lie in different towns in this State, the
supreme judicial court, in the county where the deceased
last dwelt, is authorized, upon application in writing as
aforesaid, to cause dower to be assigned, in the manner
hereinbefore prescribed for the assignment of the same,
under the direction of the court of probate, saving that
the supreme judicial court may appoint the committee
for assigning the same from any town or towns in which
the estate may lie; and an party aggrieved by such as
signment, made by ordero the court of probate, may appeal from the decree conﬁrming the same, to the su reme
judicial court, in the manner prescribed by law or ap
pealing from the decrees of said court of probate-in other
C8583
ﬁn act concerning ﬁctions of ﬁccount. SECTION ]. Be it enacted by the General ﬁssembly, and by
the authority thereof it is enacted, That when two or more
persons have and hold any estate or interest in common,
as joint tenants, tenants in common, or coparceners, and
one or more of the owners of such common estate or in
terest, shall take, receive, use or have beneﬁt thereof, in
greater proportion than his or their interest therein, such
owner or owners, his or their executors and administra
tors, shall be liable to render his or their reasonable ac
count of the use and proﬁt of such common estate or in
terest, to his or their fellow commoner or commoners,
jointly or severally, and that such, the fellow commoner
or commoners, or any or either of them, their executors or
administrators, may and are hereby authorized to have
his or their action of account against such receiver or re
ceivers, or either of them, as his or their bailiffor bailiﬁ:‘s_,
for receiving more than his or their part or proportion as
aforesaid.
Sec. 2. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That upon a judgment
rendered in any court of common pleas, that the defend
ant shall account, it shall be in the power of the party
against whom such judgment shall be rendered, to ap
peal therefrom, before the court shall proceed to the ap
pointing of auditors ; and in case no a peal shall be
made from the ﬁrst judgment that the de endarit shall ac
count, an appeal from the ﬁnal judgment, after the case
has been before auditors, shall not entitle the original de
fendant to try the issue to the country, which may have
been joined in such case, before the supreme judicial
court; but the ﬁrst ud ment, that the defendant shall ac
count, shall remain in fiill force, and he shall account ac
cordingly; and in case the defendant shall not enter and
prosecute his appeal from the ﬁrst judgment, thesame
upon complaint may be affirmed, and au itors ma there
upon be appointed, in the same manner they wou d have
been in the court of common pleas if no appeal had been
made from the ﬁrst judgment.
Sec. 3. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That when any er
son against whom judgment shall be given that he shall
account, shall unreasonably refuse or neglect to appear
at the time and place assigned by the auditors, or after
appearing shall refuse or neglect to render an account,
the auditors may award to the plaintifff the whole of his
demand; and it shall be in the power of the auditors to
administer an oath or affirmation to the parties respect
ively, and to examine them respecting their accounts, and
the matters submitted to them; and upon either of the
parties refusing to take an oath or affirmation, truly to an
swer such questions, as shall be asked them, or to answer
directly to the interrogatories put to them, it shall be in the
power of the auditors to commit the party so refusing to
jail, there to remain at his own charge until he shall con
sent to take such oath or affirmation, and answer such
interrogatories.
Sec. 4. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That when the au
ditors appointed in any case, or any two of them, shall
have made their report or award concerning the matters
submitted to them, to the court from whence they shall
have received their appointment, if no legal cause shall be
shewn for setting aside such award or report, judgment
shall . be rendered in conformity thereto, and also for
costs, including such reasonable allowance to the audi
tors for their service as the court shall judge proper to
make; and the said compensation to the auditors shall
be paid down by the party in whose favor ﬁnal judgment shall be rendered.
Sec. 5. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That any two auditors
agreeing and signing the report or award shall be equally binding and conclusive as if agreed to and signed by
the three: Provided always, That it shall be necessary, in
order to give validity to such report or award, that all the
auditors shall acce t of their appointment, and meet on
the subject matter t ereoﬁ
ﬁn act directing the proceedings in cases of forcible Entry and
Detainer.
SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General ﬂssembly, and
b the authority thereof it is enacted, That two justices of
tlie peace or wardens shall have authority to inquire by
a jury, as is hereinafter directed, as well against those
who make unlawful and forcible entry into lands or tenements, and with a strong hand detain the same, as against
those who having a lawful and peaceable entry into lands
or tenements, unlawfully and by force hold the same ; and
if it be found upon such inquiry, that an unlawful and
forcible entry hath been made, and that the same lands
or tenements are holden and detained with force and a
strong hand, or that the same, after a lawful entry, are
holden unlawfully, and with force and a strong hand, that
such justices or wardens shall cause the party complain
ing to have restitution thereof
SEO. 2. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That when complaint
shall be formally made in writing, to any two justices ofthe peace or wardens, of any unlawful and forcible entry
into any lands or tenements and detainer as aforesaid, or
any unlawful and forcible detainer of the same after a
peaceable entr , they shall make out their warrant under
their hands an seals, directed to the sheriff of the same
county, commanding him, in behalf of the State, to cause
to come before them, twelve good and lawful men, of the
same county; and they shall be impannelled to inquire in
to the forcible entry or forcible detainer complained of;
which warrant shall be in the following form, to wit :
so. The State of Rhode-Island andfrovidence
Plantations.
To the sherff of the county of greeting.
Whereas complaint is made to us the subscribers, two
of the justices of the peace, for and within the county of
of that of
upon the day of at with
force and arms and with a strong band, did unlawfully
and forcibly enter into and upon a tract of land, of him
the said in aforesaid,
containing acres, bounded as follows, viz :
(or into the messuage or tenement ofhim the said
as the case may be) and him the said
with force and a stron hand as aforesaid,
did expel, and unlawfully put out of t e possession of the
same; you are thereforee commanded, in behalf of the
State, to cause to come before us, upon the
day of at in the said county,
twelve good and lawful men of your county, to be impan-'
nelled and sworn to inquire into the forcible entry and
detainer Sor detainer) afore described. Given under our
hands an seals the day of in
the year
Justices of the Peace.
And the said justices or wardens shall make out their
summons to the party complained against in form follows
ing, viz:
SC.
The State of Rhode-Island and Providence
Plantations.
[Seal.] To the shergf of our county ¢y" greeting.
We command you that you summon of
to appear before the subscribers, two
of our justices of the peace, within and for our said coun
ty of at a place called in
in the said county, on the day of '
at o’clock in the noon, then
and there to answer to and defend against the complaint
of to them exhibited, wherein he com
plains that (here recite the complaint) and you are to
make return of this writ, with your doin s thereon, unto
the said justices, upon or before the sai day. Witness
our said justices the day of
in the year
Justices of the Peace.
Which summons shall be served upon the party complained
against, or a copy thereof left at his usual place
of abode, six days, exclusive, before the day appointed by
the justices or wardens for the trial; and if after the ser
vice of such summons the party shall not appear to de
fend, the justices or wardens shall proceed to the inquiry
in the same manner as if he was present; and when the
jury shall appear, the ustices or wardens shall lay before
the jury the exhibited complaint, and shall administer
the following oath to them, viz:
Foremmfs oath.
You, as foreman of this jury, do solemnly swear (or afﬁrm) that you will well and truly try, whether the complaint
of now laid before you, is true
according to your evidence: so help you God! or this
aﬂirmation you make and give upon peril of the penalty
of perjury.
The other jurors’ oath.
The same oath (or aﬁirmation) which your foreman
hath taken on his part, you and every of you shall welland truly observe and keep: so help you God ! or this
aﬁirmation you make and give upon peril of the penalty
of erjury.
nd if the jury shall ﬁnd the same true, then they shall
return their verdict in form following, to wit:
At a court of emagiry holden before and
s s. two of the justices of the peace,
Within and for the said1 county of at
upon the day of in the
year the j ury upon their oaths do ﬁnd, that
the lands or tenements in aforesaid, bound
ed (or described) as follows, (as in the complaint,) upon
the day of in the year were in the
lawful and rightful possession of the said and
that the said did upon the same unlaw
fully, with force and arms and with a stron hand, enter
forcibly u on the same, and (or being lawlilly upon the
same) did) unlawfully, with force and a strong hand, ex
pel and drive out the said and that
he doth still continue wrongfully to detain the possession
from him the said : wherefore the
jury ﬁnd, upon their oaths aforesaid, that the said
ought to have restitution thereof without
delay.
And if by accident or challe e there shall happen not
to be a full jury, the sheriff sha ﬁll the pannel from the
bystandin freeholders, as in other cases; and if the jury,
after a ful hearing of the cause, shall ﬁnd the complaint
laid before them supported b evidence, they shall sign
their verdict in form aforesai ; otherwise the defendant
shall be allowed his legal cost, and have his execution
therefore.
Sec. 3. ./9nd be it further enacted, That if the jury shall
return their verdict, si ned by the whole pannel, that the
complaint is supported, the justices or wardens shall en
ter up judgment for the complainant to have restitution
of the premises, and shall award their writ of restitution
accordingly; and no appeal shall be allowed from the
justices or wardens: Provided nevertheless, That the pro
ceedings may be removed by certiorari into the supreme
judicial court, holden in such county, and be there uash
ed for irregularity, if any such there be; nor sh such
judgment be a bar to any after action brought by either
party: which writ of restitution shall be in form following,
to Wit .
sc. The State of Rhode-lsland and Providence
F Plantations.
' 0 the shcri ' 0 our count 0 reeling.
Vvhereasﬁaté court ofi/znfiuiry of forcible entryind d3
tainer, holden at in our county of
upon the day of
in the year before and
Esqs. two of the justices of the peace,
for our said county of the jurors impan
nelled and sworn by our said justices, did return their
verdict in writing, signed by each of them, that
was, upon the day of in
the rightful possession of a certain messuage or tract of
land (as in the verdict returned) and that (as in the ver
dict) whereupon it was considered by our said justices,
that the said should have restitution of
the same: we command you, that taking with you the
power of the county, if necessary you cause the said
to be forthwith removed from the premises,
and the said to have the peaceable res
titution of the same; and also that you levy of the goods
and chattels of the said the sum of
being costs taxed against him on the trial afore'
said, together with twenty-ﬁve cents more for this writ,
and also your own fees for levying the same; and for
want of such goods and chattels of the said
to be by you found, you are commanded to take the
body of the said and him commit to our
jail in in our said county of
there to remain until he shall pay the sum aforesaid, to
gether with all fees arising on the service of this writ, or
until he is delivered by order of law; and make return of
this writ, with your doings thereon, within twenty days
next coming. itness our said justices, at
aforesaid, the day of in the
year
Justices of the Peace.
Provided nevertheless, That this act shall not extend unto
any person who hath had the occupation, or been in the
quiet possession of any lands or tenements, by the space
of three whole years together, next before, and whose es
tate therein is not ended or determined.
ﬁn act concerning Waste.
SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General ﬁssembly, and by
the authority thereof it is enacted, That if any person or persons
who shall be seized of any real estate, for the term
of his or their own life or lives, or for the life or lives of
any other person or persons, or as a tenant for years,
shall commit or suﬂier any waste on such estate, the person or persons holding the estate as aforesaid, shall for
feit the place so wasted, and double the amount of the
waste done or suffered; to be recovered in an action of
waste, by the person or persons entitled to the next estate
in remainder or reversion, in the lace so wasted.
Sec. 2. ﬁnd be it further enact , That if any joint tenant, tenant in common, or coparcener, shall commit any
waste on any estate by him holden in joint tenancy, ten. _
ancy m common, or coparcenary, without the consent of
the other tenants in common, joint tenants or coparceners,
he shall forfeit double the amount of the waste so done,
to be recovered by the other joint tenants, tenants in com
mon or coparceners, to their own use; and it shall be
lawful for any one of the other joint tenants, tenants in
common or coparceners, to commence such action in the
name of the whole, except the_ person or persons against
whom it shall be commenced ; and if any of the persons
named as plaintifffs shall neglect to ap ear to prosecute
such action, being duly notiﬁed thereo , those who do ap
pear shall have a right to prosecute the same in their own
names, and to their own use, to ﬁnal judgment and exe
cution.
Sec. 3. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That the supreme
judicial court in any county, and each of the justices
thereof in vacation, on the application of the plaintifff or
plaintifffs in an action of ejectment, partition or waste, be
and they are hereby empowered, in their discretion re
s ectively, to issue a writ of estrepement, directed to the
s eritf or his deputy of the county in which the estate in
question may be, requiring them to stay all waste on the
estate, that shall be described in such writ of estrepe
ment; and the sheriff or his deputy who shall be charged
with the service of such writ, shall have power to stay all
waste, as shall be directed in such writ, and to take such
aid as shall be necessary for that purpose.
Sec. 4. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That if such writ of
estrepement shall be issued by the court, it shall be re
turnable at such time as the court shall direct; and if
such writ shall be issued by a justice of said court, it
shall be returnable to the next term of such court, and
the court may thereupon issue a new writ or not, at their
discretion.
ﬁn act authorizing and regulating the taking of Dqwsitions.
Sscnou 1. Be it enacted by the General ﬁsscmbh , and b the
authority thereo it is enacted, That it shall and may be faw
ful for any ju ge of the supreme judicial court, judge of
the court of common pleas, justice of the peace, warden
or public notary within this State, to take the deposition
of any witness, to be used in the trial of any civi action
commenced or pending in any of the courts ofthis State:
Provided alwag/s, That it shall not be lawful for any
judge, justice, warden or notary, being of counsel or at
torney to either of the parties, or interested in the event
of the cause, to take any deposition in any suit in which
he shall be so concerned or interested.
Sec. 2. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That it shall be the
duty of the judge. ustice, warden or notary, previous to
the taking of any deposition as aforesaid, to cause thG'
adverse party, if residing in this State, or within twenty
miles of the place of ca tion, or in case of his absence,
his attorney, to be notiﬁed of the time and place appoint
ed for taking the same, and that he may attend and put
interrogatones to the deponent, if he thinks ﬁt; and the
notiﬁcation shall be issued by the judge, justice, warden
or notary, who shall take such deposition, and directed
to any proper oﬂicer, or any impartial and disinterested
person, and shall be served a reasonable time, not less
than twenty-four hours before the time of taking such de
position ; and the officer or other person charge as aforesaid with such notiﬁcation, shall serve the same by reading it to the party to be cited, if to be found, and if not
to be found, by leaving a copy thereof at his usual place
of abode; and shall in his return state the hour of the
day when the service was made; and when such service
shall be made by any person other than a sworn oﬂicer,
he shall verify the same under oath or affirmation, before
some judge, justice, warden or notary.
Sec. 3. ﬁnd be it rther enacted, That every person before deposing as a oresaid, shall be carefully examined,
cautioned and sworn, or aﬂirmed, to testify the truth, the
whole truth, and nothing but the truth; and shall sub
scribe the testimony by him or her 'ven, after the same
shall be reduced to writing, which s all be done only by
the judge, justice, warden or notary taking the deposi
tion, or by the deponent- in his resence; and the depo
sition so taken shall be retaine by such judge, 'ustlce,
warden or notary, until he deliver the same with is own
hand to the court for which it is taken, or shall, together
with a certiﬁcate of its having been duly taken, be by
said judge, justice, warden or notary, scaled up and di
rected to such court, and remain so sealed until opened
in c urt; and any person may be compelled to appear
and epose as aforesaid in the same manner as to appear‘
and testify in court.
Sec. 4. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That the deposition
of any person taken pursuant to this act, shall be used as
evidence, in the trial of any cause in which it shall have
been taken to be‘used.
Sec. 5. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That if any witness shall
be induced to go out of this State, in order that his depo
sition may be taken without the adverse party’s having due notice, the deposition of such witness taken by
such undue means, shall not be used or admitted as evi
dence in any court in this State.
See. 6. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That depositions taken
without this State, to be used in the trial of any cause
. . . . .
pendmg m any court m this State, shall be received as
evidence, unless such depositions are taken in the man
ner in the preceding section mentioned; and provided
such depositions shall be taken agreeably to the laws of
the state or country in which the same shall have been
taken, or before some judge, chancellor, or other civil
magistrate of such state or country, in conformity to the
provisions of this act.
Sec. 7. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That the supreme ju
dicial court of this State, or either of the courts of com
mon pleas, on the motion of either party in any civil suit
pending therein, shall be authorized to grant a dedimus
potestatem to take depositions according to common
usage, when it may be necessary to prevent a failure or de
lay of justice. Sec. 8. ﬁnd be itfurther enacted, That any judge of the su
preme judicial court or courts of common pleas, as well
before as after the commencement of any action, on appli
cation, shall be authorized to take depositions in perpetu
am rei memoriam; which depositions in case of the death of
the deponent, his becoming non compos mentis, his ab
sence from this State, or inability to attend, may be used
as evidence in any court in this State, against any arty
who shall have had due notice of the taking of sue de
positions, his heirs, executors, administrators or assigns.
Sac. 9. ﬁnd be it further enacted, That no deposition
shall be used in the trial of any cause in any court in this
State, which shall have been taken during the sitting of
the court before which said action may be pending, un
less the same shall have been taken by order of court

