442 actions. [Title XXVI.
TITLE XXVI.
OF ACTIONS AND PROCESS.
Chapter 193. Of actions.
Chafter 194. Of the limitation of actions.
Chapter 195. Of writs, the forms thereof, and when issuable.
Chapter 196. Of the service of writs.
Chapter 197. Of certain provisions concerning attachment?.
Chapter 198. Of exemptions from arrest and from attachment.
CHAPTER 193.
OF ACTIONS.
Section
1. Suits in lnw and equity concern
ing real property, in what county
brought.
2. Other notions, in what county.
3. Where, if parties reside out of
state.
4 and 5. Transitory actions by or
against corporations, where.
6. Actions on note assigned or en
dorsed, against promisor, whore.
7. Effect of bringing actions in wrong
county.
8. Promise, when to be in writing to
maintain action.
9. Action against Indian tribe, or
member of.
10. Actions and causes of, which sur
vive death of plaintifff or defend
ant.
11. Actions surviving, by whom prose
cuted and defended.
12. Of rule of damages in such actions.
13. Actions of ejectment to survive,
and by whom prosecuted and
defended.
14. Effect of judgment in, upon title
to real estate.
15. Claims for highway damages, and
appeals in, to survive, and how
to be prosecuted.
16. Remedy for loss of life by negli
gence of common carriers and
railroad and steamboat com
panies.
17. Damages for, to whom to go.
Section
18. Action for, by person interested in
life.
19. Action for, by whom to be brought.
20. Criminal proceedings, not neces
sary to.
21. Action for damages caused by
wrongful death of husband, wife,
parent, or next of kin.
22. Form of action for injury caused
by crime.
23. Criminal proceedings when neces
sary to action.
24. Action for injury caused by in
toxicated person, against person
selling or giving him liquor.
25. Surety for costs not required in
such action.
26. Owner or lessor of building, &c ,
where liquors sold ; when jointly
liable with seller.
27. Damages recovered by wife, to be
her separate property.
28. Sale or gift of liquor by lessee, re
sulting in damages, to work
forfeiture of lease.
29. Power of supreme court to enjoin
selling or giving of liquor.
30. Representatives of joint obligor,
when suable.
31. Judgment against part only of
joint contractors, when bar to
future action on contract.
32. Liability of innkeepers, how re
stricted in certain cases.
Suction 1. All actions and suits, as well at law as inequity,
which concern the realty, or any right, easement, or interest therein,
or the possession thereof, all actions of trespass for the breaking and
entering the close of any plaintifff, and all other actions in which title
to real estate may be tried and determined, shall be brought in the
county in which the land lies.
Sec. 2. All other actions and suits shall be brought either in the
county where the plaintifff or defendant, or some one of the parties
plaintifff or defendant shall dwell, or in the county in which the de
fendant, or some one of the parties defendant shall be found.
Sec. 3. If no one of the parties plaintifff or defendant shall dwell
in this state, such personal or transitory action may be brought in
any county.
Sec. 4. Personal or transitory actions brought by or against corporations shall be brought either in the county in which the other
party, or some one of the other parties dwells, or in the county in
which the defendant or some one of the parties defendants shall be
found, or in which the corporation is located by its charter, or if not
located by its charter, in which the annual meetings of the corpo
ration are required to be, or, if not required to be, are actually
holden.
Sec. 5. If no one of the parties plaintifff or defendant dwells
within the state, and the corporation be established out of this
state, such personal or transitory action by or against it may be
brought in any county.
Sec. 6. All actions brought on any promissory note in the name
of the assignee or endorsee, against the original promisor, shall be
brought in the same county in which the action ought by law to be
brought if no assignment or endorsement of such note had been
made.
Sec. 7. All actions brought in other counties than is provided by
the preceding sections of this chapter shall be abated.
Six. 8. No action shall be brought, —
First. Whereby to charge any person upon any contract for the
sale of lands, tenements, or hereditaments, or the making of any
lease thereof for a longer time than one year.
Second. Whereby to charge any person upon any agreement made
upon consideration of marriage.
Third. Whereby to charge any executor or administrator upon his
special promise to answer any debt or damage out of his own estate.
Fourth. Whereby to charge any person upon his special promise
to answer for the debt, default, or miscarriage of another person.
Fifth. Whereby to charge any person upon any agreement which
is not to be performed within the space of one year from the making
thereof ;
Unless the promise or agreement upon which such action shall be
brought, or some note or memorandum thereof, shall be in writing,
and signed by the party to be charged therewith, or by some other
person by him thereunto lawfully authorized.
Sec. 9. No action shall be brought against the Indian tribe of this
state, or any member thereof resident in the town of Charlestown,
for the recovery of debt ; but the court or justice before whom such
action shall be brought, or may be pending, shall, in any stage there
of, d'smiss the same with double costs against the plaintifff.
Sec. 10. In addition to the causes of action and actions which
survive at common law, the death of the plaintifff or defendant
' 1
therein, the following causes of action and actions shall also sur
vive : —
First. Causes of action and actions of waste.
Second. Causes of action and actions of replevin and trover.
Third. Causes of action and actions of trespass and trespass on
the case for damages to the person, or to real and personal estate.
Sec. 11. All the causes of action and actions as well as appeals
therein in the next preceding section mentioned, may he originally
brought and prosecuted by and against executors and administrators ;
appeals at any time during the term of the court to which the appeal
is given, which shall commence next after the lapse of a month from
the death of the testator or intestate, and if prosecuted or brought
by the testator or intestate in his lifetime, may be prosecuted against
or defended by his executors or administrators.
Sec. 12. Whenever any of said causes of action or actions are
prosecuted or brought against the executor or administrator of the
party originally liable, the plaintifff shall be entitled to recover only
the value of the goods taken, or the damage actually sustained, with
out any vindictive or exemplary damages, or damages for atiy alleged
outrage to the feelings of the injured party.
Sec. 13. Actions of ejectment shall survive the death of the
plaintifff or defendant, and may be prosecuted or defended by the heir,
devisee, executor, or administrator of the deceased party, as the right
may descend or vest.
Sec. 14. In no case shall the title to real estate be settled or
affected, except so far as relates to the case on trial, if, and so far as
the same shall be prosecuted or defended by an executor or adminis
trator.
Sec. 15. Claims for damages on account of the laying out of high
ways through lands of the claimants, and appeals from proceedings
laying out highways, shall survive the death of the claimant or appel
lant ; and the executor, administrator, heir, or devisee of the claimant
or appellant may jointly or severally, according to their interest, pros
ecute such claim or appeal in any stage of the proceedings, in case of
an appeal, giving bond, filing reasons of appearand entering the same
at any time during the term of the court of common pleas in the
same county next after the final action of the town council on the
report of laying out, or next after a month succeeding the death of
the claimant or appellant, whichever may last happen.
Sec. 1 6. If the life of any person, being a passenger in any stage
coach or other conveyance, when used by common carriers, or the
life of any person, whether a passenger or not, in the care of propri
etors of, or common carriers by means of, railroad or steamboats, or
the life of any person crossing upon a public highway with reason
able care, shall be lost by reason of the negligence or carelessness of
such common carriers, proprietor or proprietors, or by the unfit
ness or negligence or carelessness of their servants or agents, in
this state, such common carriers, proprietor or proprietors, shall be
liable to damages for the injury caused by the loss of life of such
person, to be recovered by action on the case, for the benefit of the
husband or widow and next of kin of the deceased person, one
moiety thereof to go to the husband or widow, and the other to the
children of the deceased.
Sec. 17. If in such case there shall be no children, the whole of
such damages shall go to the husband or widow ; and if there be no
husband or widow, to the next of kin, according to the law of this
state regulating the distribution of intestate personal estate amongst
the next of kin.
Sec. 18. In addition to such action in favor of the widow and
kindred of the deceased, a like action may be maintained for damages
for such loss of life by any person having a direct pecuniary interest
in the continuance of the life of such deceased person.
Sec. 19. Actions for the benefit of the widow and next of kin of
such passenger or person may, in all cases, be brought by the executor or administrator of the deceased, whether such executor or
administrator be appointed and qualified as such within or without
this state ; but where there is a widow only, she may, at her option,
sue in her own name.
Sec. 20. To maintain such actions it shall not be necessary first to
institute criminal proceedings against the defendants.
Sec. 21. In all cases in which the death of any person ensues
from injury inflicted by the wrongful act of another, and in which an
action for damages might have been maintained at the common law
had death not ensued, the person inflicting such injury shall be liable
to an action for damages for the injury caused by the death of such
person, to be recovered by action of the case for the use of his or
her husband, widow, children, or next of kin, in like manner, and
with like effect, as in the preceding five sections provided.
Sec 22. Whenever any person shall suffer any injury to his person,
reputation, or estate, by the commission of any crime or offense,
he may recover his damages for such injury, either in an action of
trespass or in an action on the case, against the offender.
Sec. 23. No such action, except as provided in the five sections
preceding the last, shall be commenced for such injury, until after
complaint has been made to some proper magistrate for such crime or
offense, and process issued thereon against the offender, excepting
only those cases in which such actions may now be maintained at
common law ; and whenever any person shall be convicted of lar
ceny, he shall be liable to the owner or owners of the money or
articles taken, for twofold the value thereof, unless the same be re
stored, and one fold the value thereof, in case of restoration, to be
recovered by civil action.
Sec. 24. Every person residing within this state who shall be
injured in person, property, means of support, or otherwise, by any
intoxicated person, or by reason of the intoxication of any person
directly or indirectly, shall have a right of action in his or her own
name to recover damages against any person who shall, by selling or
giving intoxicating liquor, have caused or contributed to such in
toxication.
Sec. 25. Every person having such right of action shall not be
required to give surety for costs on any writ therein.
Sec. 26. The owner or lessor of any building or premises, having
knowledge that intoxicating liquors are to be or are unlawfully sold
therein, shall be liable severally or jointly with the person so selling
or giving intoxicating liquors as above provided.
Sec. 27. In every action by any wife, the damages recovered
shall be her sole and separate property.
Sec. 28. Every sale or gift of intoxicating liquors by the lessee of
any premises, which shall result in damages, shall work a forfeiture of
his lease.
Sec. 29. The supreme court may enjoin the sale or giving away
of intoxicating liquors by any lessee of premises, whenever such sale
or giving away may result in loss, damage, or liability to the lessor,
or any person claiming under him.
Sec. 30. The representatives of one jointly bound with another
for the payment of any debt, or for performance or forbearance of
any act, or for any other thing, and dying in the lifetime of the lat
ter, may be charged by virtue of such obligation in the same man
ner as such representative might have been charged, if the obligors
had been bound severally as well as jointly : Provided, that the
plaintifff shall first pursue the surviving debtor to final judgment and
execution.
Sec. 31. No judgment rendered against a part only of the de
fendants in an action upon a joint contract shall be a bar to any
future action on said contract against such of the defendants upon
whom or whose estate the writ in the original action may not have
been served.
Sec. 32. Any innkeeper who shall provide a suitable safe in his
house for the safe keeping of any money, jewels, or ornaments belong
ing to his guests, and shall notify them thereof by posting a printed
notice conspicuously in the rooms that such safe has been provided
for said purpose, shall not be liable for the loss of any money, jewels,
or ornaments, by theft or otherwise, which any guest who has neglected
to deposit the same in such safe may sustain.
CHAPTER 194.
OF THE LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
Suction
1. Actions of slander, how limited,
a Of trespass, how.
3. Of account, of the case, except for
words spoken, of debt, except
in certain cases, of detinue and
replevin, how.
4. Of debt on specialty and of cove
nant, how.
5. Saving in favor of residents against
absent residents.
6. General saving.
Section
7. Time extended by death of parties,
when.
8. Time extended by abatement of
action, or arrest of judgment.
9. Action against executor and ad
ministrator, how limited.
10. Action against heir or devisee for
debt of ancestor or testator,
how.
11. Special limitations saved.
Section 1. Actions upon the case for words spoken shall be com
menced and sued within one year next after the words spoken, and
not after.
Sec. 2. Actions of trespass shall be commenced and sued within
four years next after the cause of action shall accrue, and not after.
Sec. 3. All actions of account, except on such accounts as concern
trade or merchandise between merchant and merchant, their factors
and servants, all actions of the case, except for words spoken, all ac
tions of debt founded upon any contract without specialty, or brought
for arrearages of rents, and all actions of detinue and replevin, shall
be commenced and sued within six years next after the cause of such
action shall accrue, and not after.
Sec. 4. All actions of debt other than those in the next preceding
section specified, and all actions of covenant, shall be commenced and
sued within twenty years next after the cause of action shall accrue,
and not after.
Sec. 5. If any person against whom there is or shall he cause for
any action hereinbefore enumerated in favor of a resident therein
shall, at the time such cause accrue, be without the limits of this state,
or being within said state at the time such cause accrue, shall go out
of said state before said action shall be barred by the provisions of
this chapter, and shall not have or leave property or estate therein
that can by the common and ordinary process of law be attached,
then the person entitled to such action may commence the same
within the time before limited, after such person shall return into this
state, in such manner that an action may with reasonable diligence
be commenced against him by the person entitled to the same.
Sec. 6. If any person at the time any such action shall accrue to
him shall be within the age of twenty-one years, feme covert, non
compos mentis, imprisoned, or beyond the limits of the United States,
such person may bring the same, within such time as is hereinbefore
limited, after such impediment is removed.
Sec. 7. If any person, for or against whom any of such actions
shall accrue, shall die before the time limited for bringing the same,
or within sixty days after the expiration of said time, and the cause
of such action shall survive, such action may be commenced by or
against the executor or administrator of the deceased person, as the
case may be, at any time within one year after the granting of letters
testamentary or of administration, and not afterwards, if barred by
the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 8. If any action, duly commenced within the time limited
and allowed therefore in and by this chapter, shall be abated or otherwise
avoided or defeated by the death of any party thereto, or for
any matter, or if after verdict for the plaintifff the judgment shall be
arrested, the plaintifff may commence a new action for the same cause,
at any time within one year after the abatement or other determina
tion of the original suit as aforesaid ; and if the cause of action does
by law survive, his executor or administrator may, in case of his
death, commence said new action within the said one year.
Sec. 9. No action shall be brought against any executor or administrator
in his said capacity, within, one year after the will shall
be proved or administration granted : except for medicines and attendance
in the last sickness, and funeral charges of the deceased,
and excepting also actions brought in pursuance of the seventh sec
tion of this chapter ; nor shall any action be brought against any
executor or administrator in his said capacity, unless the same shall be
commenced within three years next after the will shall be proved or ad
ministration shall be granted : Provided, such executor or administrator
shall give notice of his appointment, by publishing the same in some
public newspaper in this state, nearest to the place in which the de
ceased person last dwelt, or in such other manner as the court of pro
bate shall direct ; said periods to be reckoned from the time of giving
such notice.
Sec. 10. No action shall be brought against any heir or devisee
of a deceased person, for the payment of the debts of the ancestor
or testator, within three years next after administration granted or
probate of the will made.
Sec. 11. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any
case in which by special provision a different time is limited.
Section 1. Writs issued by any court shall issue in the name of
the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, shall be under
the seal of the court from which they issue, and shall be signed by its
clerk or one of the justices thereof.
Sec. 2. Every original writ or writ of mesne process issued by
the supreme court, court of common pleas, or by a justice court, shall
be a writ of summons unless otherwise provided.
Sec. 3. Every writ issuing from the supreme court or court of
common pleas shall bear teste of the chief justice of the supreme
court, but in case he shall be a party to the action or suit, or the
office of chief justice shall be vacant, such writ shall bear teste of the
senior associate justice of the supreme court, not a party thereto.
Sec. 4. Such writs shall run throughout the state, and shall be
directed to the sheriffs of all the counties in the state, or to their
deputies ; but, if the sheriff of any county be a party to the action
or suit, the process, if to be served in that county, shall, in addition
to the former direction, be directed to the town sergeants in the
county, and may be served by any one of them, not a party thereto.
Sec. 5. Writs issued by a justice court shall be made returnable
to such court at a day, hour, and place named therein, and shall be
directed to the sheriff, his deputy, or to either of the town sergeants,
or constables of the county in which the suit shall be brought; and
in case the defendant has estate, or any person upon whom it is
necessary to make service of said writ be, in any other county than
the one in 'Which the suit is brought, the writ may be also directed to
the like officers of such county ; and every such original writ shall
contain the plaintifff's declaration at length.
Writs of Summons.
Sec. 6. The form of a writ of summons issued by the supreme
court or court of common pleas shall be substantially as follows : —
r J
The Stale of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc. To the sheriffs of our several counties or to their
deputies, greeting :
We command you to summon if may be found in
your precinct, to answer the complaint of at the next
court to be holden at within and for our said
county of on the Monday of next en
suing the date hereof, in an action of as by declaration to be
filed in court will be fully set forth : to the damage of the plaintifff
dollars. Hereof fail not, and make true return of this writ
with your doings thereon. Witness, Hon. chief justice of
our supreme court at this day of in the
year
Clerk.
Sec. 7. A writ of summons issued by a justice court shall be substantially in the following form : — .of
The State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc. To the sheriff of the county of his depu
ties, or to either of the town sergeants or constables in said
county, greeting :
We command you to summon of if to be
found in your precinct, to answer the complaint of at a jus
tice court to be holden at in on the
day of at o'clock in noon, in an ac
tion of
For that [here insert the declaration at length.]
To the damage of the plaintifff as he says dollars.
Hereof fail not, and make true return of' this writ with your doings
thereon. Witness Esq., trial justice at this
day of in the year
Clerk.
If such writ be issued by a justice court having no clerk, then the
form of attestation shall be substantially as follows : —
Witness my hand at this day of
in the year Trial Justice.
29
Writs of Arrest.
Sec. 8. An original writ commanding the arrest of any person not
exempt by law from arrest may be issued by the supreme court, court
of common pleas, or any justice court, —
First. In any action for the recovery of a debt or of a state or
town tax, the cause of which accrued previous to the first day of July,
a. d. 1870.
Second. In any action on penal statutes, or in any action of trover,
detinue, trespass, trespass on the case, trespass and ejectment, and
trespass quare clausum fregit.
Third. Whenever the plaintifff in an action to be commenced by
such writ, his agent or attorney, shall make affidavit to be endorsed
thereon or annexed thereto, that the plaintifff has a just claim against
the defendant upon which the plaintifff expects to recover, in the ac
tion commenced by such writ, a sum sufficient to give jurisdiction to
the court to which such writ is returnable : And also, either that the
defendant or some one of the defendants is about to leave the state
without leaving therein real or personal estate whereon an execution
that may be obtained in such action can be served, or that the de
fendant or some one of the defendants has committed fraud in con
tracting the debt upon which the action is founded, or in the conceal
ment of his property, or in the disposition of the same.
Sec. 9. An original writ of arrest issued by the supreme court
or court of common pleas shall be substantially in the following
form : —
The Siate of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] Se. To the sheriff's of our sereral counties or to their dep
uties, greeting :
We command you to arrest the body of if may be
found in your precinct and in safe custody keep to
answer the complaint of at the next court
to be holden at within and for the county of on
the Monday of next ensuing the date hereof, in an
action of as by declaration to be filed in court will be fully
set forth, to the damage of the plaintifff dollars. Hereof
.fail not, and make true return of this writ with your doings thereon.
Witness, Hon. Chief Justice of our supreme court
at this day of in the year of
Clerk.
Sec. 10. An original writ of arrest issued by a justice court shall
be substantially in the following form : —
The State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc. To the sheriff of the county of his depu
ties, or to either of the town sergeants or constables in the county
of greeting :
We command you to arrest the body of of if he may
be found in your precinct, to answer the complaint of [The
remainder as in a writ of summons.]
Writs of Attachment.
Sec. 11. An original writ commanding the attachment of the real
or personal estate of the defendant, including his personal estate in
the hands or possession of another person as trustee of the defendant,
and his stock or shares in any banking association, or other incorporated company, may be issued by the supreme court, court of com
mon pleas, or by any justice court, whenever the plaintifff in the ac
tion to be commenced by such writ, his agent or attorney, shall make
affidavit to be endorsed thereon or annexed thereto,
That the plaintifff has a just claim against the defendant that is due,
upon which the plaintifff expects to recover in such action a sum
sufficient to give jurisdiction to the court to which such writ is return
able.
And also : either
That the defendant is an incorporated company established out of the
Btate, or that he resides out of the slate, or that he has left the state,
and is not expected by the affiant to return within the same in season
to be served with process returuable to the next term of such court.
Or
That the defendant, or some one of the defendants, has committedfraud in contracting the debt upon which the action was founded ; or
in the concealment of his property, or in the disposition thereof.
Or
That since the contracting of such debt the defendant has been the
owner of property, or in the receipt of an income which he has refused
or neglected to apply towards the payment thereof, though requested
by the plaintifff so to do.
Sec. 12. An original writ of attachment issued by the supreme
court or court of common pleas shall be substantially in the following
form :
The State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc. To the sheriffs of our several counties or to their
deputies, greeting :
We command you to attach the goods and chattels, and real estate
of of and them in safe custody keep ; and also to attach
the personal estate of the said in the hands or posses
sion of of as trustee of the said ; and also to
attach his stock or shares in any banking association or incorporated
company to the value of dollars, to answer the complaint of
at the next court to be holden at
within and for our said county of on the Monday of
next ensuing the date hereof, in an action of as by
declaration to be filed in court will be fully set forth : to the damage
of the plaintifff dollars. Hereof fail not, and make true return
of this writ with your doings thereon.
Witness, Hon. chief justice of our supreme court,
at this day of in the year of
Clerk.
Sec. 13. An original writ of attachment issued by a justice court
shall be substantially in the following form : —
* °
The State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc. To the sheriff of the coun'y of his deputies, or to either of the town sergeants or constables, in the coun
ty of greeting :
We command you to attach the goods and chattels, and real estate
of of and them in safe custody keep, and also
to attach his personal estate in the hands or possession of
of as the trustee of the said ; and also to attach his
stock or shares in any banking association or incorporated company.
[The remainder as in a writ of summons.]
Writs of Mesne Process.
Sec. 14. Whenever an action has been commenced by an original
writ of summons, the plaintifff therein may, at any time before final
judgment in such action, sue out of the court to which such original
writ was returnable a writ of mesne process, commanding the arrest
of the defendant, or a writ of mesne process commanding the attach
ment of his goods and chattels and real estate, and of his stock or
shares in any banking association or other incorporated company,
and of his personal estate in the hands or possession of any person,
copartnership, or corporation, as the trustee of the defendant, upon
such plaintifff, his agent, or attorney, making an affidavit to be en
dorsed on, or annexed to such writ, setting forth facts which would
have authorized such arrest or attachment upon the original writ in
such action had such affidavit then been made. Such writ of mesne
process shall conform as nearly as may be to an original writ com
manding an arrest or attachment, and shall be made returnable forth
with.
Sec. 15. Whenever a writ of attachment can be issued by any
court, it may command the attachment of the goods and chattels of
the defendant, and his real estate, and his personal estate in the hands
of another person as his trustee, and his stock or shares in any bank
ing association or incorporated company, and may be varied so as to
command the attachment of one or more of such classes of property
of the defendant.
Sec. 16. The forms of writs of replevin and scire facias shall be
substantially as follows, to wit: —
Writ of Replevin.
The State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc. To the sheriffs of our several counties and to their
deputies, greeting :
We command you, that you replevy, if to be found within your
precinct, the goods and chattels following, viz : (here enumerate and
particularly describe them) belonging to of
now taken (detained or attached as the case may be) by
of at in the county of and them de
liver unto the said provided the same are not taken, at
tached, or detained upon original writ, mesne process, warrant of dis
tress, or upon execution as the property of the said and
summon the said that he appear before our
court next to be holden at within and for the
county of on the Monday of to an
swer unto the said in a plea of replevin ; that the said
on the day of at said
unlawfully, and without justifiable cause, took the goods and chattels
of the said as aforesaid, and them unlawfully detained unto
this day (or unlawfully detained the goods and chattels aforesaid, as
the case may be), to the damage of the said, as he says
dollars. Hereof fail not, and make true return of this
writ with your doings thereon, together with the bond you shall take
of the plaintifff
Witness, Hon. , chief justice of our supreme
court, at this day of in the year
Clerk.
Scire Facias.
The State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc. To the sheriffs of our several counties and to their
deputies, greeting :
Whereas, of by the consideration of the
court holden at in said county, on the day of
recovered judgment against of for the sum
of dollars and cents, and costs taxed at as
appears of record, and execution thereof remains to be done :
We command you thereforee to summon the said to appear
before the court to be holden at in said county of
on the day of to show cause if any he has,
why the said should not have execution against ' for
the sums aforesaid. Hereof fail not, and make true return of this
writ with your doings thereon.
Witness, Hon. chief justice of our supreme court, at
this day of in the year Clerk.
Sec. 17. The form of a writ of scire facias may be varied from
the above to adapt it to service by arrest or attachment.
Sec. 18. Every original writ issued agains-t a female, four.ded on
a contract, shall be a writ of summon*, unless the plaintifff in iuch suit,
his agent or attorney, ihall make affidavit to le endowed iheiecn or
annexed thereto, that the def'tiulant is withcut lie itate ai d is not
expected by the affiant to return thereto in season to be served
with such writ twenty days before the sitting of the court to which
it is returnable, in which case a writ of attachment may issue.
Sec. 19. Whenever an original writ shall issue against more than
one defendant, the forms hereinbefore given may be altered so as to
combine the writ of arrest, the writ of summons, and the writ of attachment,
in order that the same may be served on one or more of
the defendants by one form of service, and on the other or others by
another form of service.
Sec. 20. Every court shall adapt the form of process necessary to
be issued thereby, whenever no form is prescribed, so as to conform
to law, and as far as the nature of the case will admit of, to the forms
prescribed in this chapter.
Sec. 21. Whenever the name of any defendant or respondent is
not known to the plaintifff, the writ may issue against him by a fictitious name, or by such description as the plaintifff or complainant may
select, and if duly served it 'shall not be abated for that cause, but
may be amended with or without terms, as the court may order.
Sec. 22. Real estate shall not be attached upon an original writ or
writ of mesne process issued by a justice court.
Sec. 23. Whenever a trial justice shall be a party to an action, or
in any way interested therein, before whom su(.h action would otherwise be brought, all processes issuing in such action shall issue from
and be returnable to a justice court in an adjoining town to that in
which such trial justice resides, in like manner and with like effect
as if such trial justice were a resident of such town.
Sec. 24. Whenever the clerk of any court shall be a party to an
action, suit, or other proceeding, civil or criminal, all processes issuing
from such court thereon shall be signed by the justice thereof.
Sec. 25. Whenever the plaintifff in any original writ, in any court,
shall not be an inhabitant of this state, he shall, upon motion of any
defendant therein, at the first term of the court to which the writ is
returnable, give some sufficient person residing within the state as
surety for costs, which shall be done by such surety, endorsing his
name on such writ.
Sec. 26. The court before whom any action at law, or suit in
equity is pending, shall, at any time before final judgment therein,
upon motion of any defendant, and for cause shown, require the
plaintifff to procure another surety for costs residing within the state,
or, if none have been given, a sufficient surety residing within the
state, which shall be done in like manner as is provided in the next
preceding section.
Sec. 27. Upon the neglect of the plaintifff to comply with an
order of the court requiring a surety, or another surety as herein
provided, his action or suit may be dismissed with costs for the de
fendant.
Sec. 28. Every such surety shall be liable, in case the plaintifff
shall not make good his plea, to pay all costs that shall be awarded
against the plaintifff: Provided., suit be brought therefore within one
year after final decree or judgment in such suit or action.
Sec. 29. Every person who shall willfully swear falsely to any
statement in an affidavit made by him, by means of which affidavit a
writ of arrest or attachment shall have issued, and which shall huve
been served by arrest or attachment, shall be deemed guilty of per
jury.
Section 1. Every officer to whom any writ or precept lawfully
issued shall be delivered shall execute the mandates therein contained as commanded, and shall make return of his doings thereon.
In case he be unable to execute such mandates, he shall set forth the
reason of his failure in his return.
Sec. 2. Every original writ issuing out of the supreme court, or
any court of common pleas, except a special court of common pleas,
shall be returnable to the term of such court which shall commence
next after twenty days or more from the date thereof, and shall be
served twenty days before the return day thereof, except in those
cases in which special provisions shall be made to the contrary ; and
every original writ issuing out of a justice court shall .be served six.
days before the return day thereof. ,
Service of Writs of Summons.
Sec. 3. A writ of summons shall be served by reading the same
to the person to be summoned, or by leaving an attested copy thereof
with him or at his last and usual place of abode ; or, if such writ be
issued against any company incorporated in this state, by leaving an
attested copy of such writ, if a bank, with the cashier thereof, if an
insurance company, with the president or secretary thereof, and if
any other corporation, with the treasurer thereof or the person ex
ecuting the duties of treasurer thereof ; if against a copartnership,
where neither of the copartners has a last and usual place of abode in
this state, with some clerk or agent of said copartnership, or at the
last and usual abode of such officers, clerk, or agent respectively, or
in such other mode as by the charter of such corporation may be
provided.
Sec. 4. A writ of summons issued against an insurance company
incorporated in any other state or country, which shall have an
agency in this state, shall be served by leaving an attested copy of
such writ with such agent, or at his last and usual place of abode.
Service of Writs of Arrest and of Bail
Sec. 5. Every officer who shall arrest any person by virtue of any
writ of arrest, in a civil action, shall keep such person in safe custody
until he be discharged pursuant to law.
Sec. 6. Every such officer who shall so arrest any person shall let
the person so arrested to bail, upon his giving sufficient surety for
his appearance at the court to which such writ or process shall be re
turnable, and to abide the final judgment which shall be rendered
thereon.
Sec. 7. Whoever shall become bail for any person shall give bond
to the sheriff, if the writ or process shall be served by the sheriff or
his deputy ; and if the writ or process shall be served by a town ser
geant or constable, the bail bond in such case shall be given to the
officer serving the same.
Sec. 8. Instead of giving bond as aforesaid, the person becoming
bail may endorse his christian and surname on the back of the writ
or process, which shall hold him as bail to the same extent as if he
had executed and delivered a formal bail bond.
Sec. 9. Every person committed to jail in any county, except the
county of Providence, by virtue of an arrest on any writ or process
in any civil action, or by surrender of former bail in the same action,
shall be let to bail or to new bail, as the case may be, in manner be
fore provided, at any time before the rendering of final judgment on
the original writ on which the arrest was made.
Sec. 10. Every person committed to jail in the county of Provi
dence on any writ or process in any civil action, or by surrender of
former bail in the same action, may be let to bail or to new bail, as the
case may be, by the keeper of said jail, or by the officer who served the
writ or process, at any time before final judgment shall be rendered
on the writ on which the arrest was made, upon his giving sufficient
surety for his appearance at the court to which such writ is return
able, and to abide the final judgment which shall be rendered thereon.
Sec. 11. In case bail be taken by said keeper, the person becom
ing bail shalf give bond to the keeper in a penal sum equal to the
damages laid in such writ ; but if bail be taken by the officer who
served such writ, the person becoming bail may give such bond to the
officer, or may endorse his christian and surname on the back of such
writ or process, which shall hold him as bail, as in other cases.
SERVICE OF WRITS OF ATTACHMENT.
Of Real Estate.
Sec. 12. The officer commanded by any original writ, or writ of
mesne process, to attach real estate, or the right, title, and interest of
any defendant therein, shall attach the same by leaving an attested
copy of such writ, with a copy of his doings thereon, with the town
clerk of the town in which such real estate shall be situated ; and
shall also leave an attested copy of such writ, with a general refer
ence thereon to the real estate attached thereby, together with a
statement of the date and time of day of such attachment, with the
defendant personally, or with some person at his last and usual place
of abode, if any he have, within the precinct of the officer ; or if he
have none, then such officer shall send such copy by mail to such de
fendant, if his address be known to or can be ascertained by such,
officer ; and shall also, in the last named event, leave a like copy with
the person, if any, in possession of such real estate.
Of Goods and Chattels.
^ue- Whenever an original writ, or writ of mesne process,
shall command the officer to whom the same is directed to attach the
goods and chattels of a defendant, such officer shall attach the same
to the value commanded in the writ, if so much can be found by him,
and may attach any less value, if the plaintifff or his attorney shall
give order therefore, on such writ.
Sec. 14. The officer making such attachment shall serve, as soon
as may be, the defendant, with an attested copy of such writ, having
endorsed thereon a general reference to the class or kind of goods and
chattels so attached, together with a statement of the place in which
they were found, and of the date and time of day of such attachment,
by delivering such copy to the defendant, if he can be found by such
officer within his precinct, or by leaving the same with some person
at the defendant's last and usual place of abode ; or if he have none
within the precinct of such officer, by sending such copy by mail to
such defendant, if his address be known or can be ascertained by such
officer, and, in the last named event, by leaving such copy with some
person, if any there be, in possession of such goods and chattels at
the time of their attachment.
Sec. 15. Such officer shall keep the goods and chattels so attached
in his custody, as security to satisfy such judgment as the plaintifff
may obtain, until, by due process of law, either he shall sell the same,
or they be withdrawn from his custody.
Sec. 1 6. The defendant in any writ upon which goods and chattels
shall have been attached may, at any time within forty-eight
hours, exclusive of Sunday, after such attachment, deliver to such
officer a bond in the penal sum of the amount of damages laid in the
writ, signed by the defendant or some one in his behalf, with sureties
to the satisfaction of such officer, with a condition therein that the
same shall be null and void, if the final judgment in the action in
which such writ was served shall be forthwith paid and satisfied after
the rendition thereof.
Sec. 17. If the defendant in such writ shall deem the damages
laid therein excessive, he may before giving such bond complain in
writing to any justice of the court from which such writ issued, requesting
their reduction ; and such justice may, after due notice to
the plaintifff in such writ, or to his attorney, and upon cause shown,
reduce such damages, and the amount so fixed shall be the penal sum
in such bond.
Sec. 18. Upon accepting a bond given to satisfy a judgment, as
herein required, such officer shall lodge the same with the clerk of
the court, if there be a clerk, otherwise with the justice of the court
to which the writ in such action shall be returnable, and shall forthwith surrender the goods and chattels attached by him to the person
whose interest therein shall have been attached, or from whose pos
session the same were taken by virtue of such writ.
Sec. 19. If the defendant in such writ shall not within the time
required, either give such bond or a bond for the value of the goods
and chattels attached, in the manner bylaw provided, such officer
shall make an inventory of the goods and chattels by him attached
upon such writ, and return the same as a part of his doings in his
return upon such writ.
Sec. 20. The officer having the goods and chattels so attached by
him in his custody shall surrender the same at any time after such
attachment, and before final judgment, to the person whose interest
therein has been attached, or from whose possession they have been
taken, upon being tendered a bond by the defendant or some one in
his behalf, with sufficient sureties to the satisfaction of such officer,
in double the value of the goods and chattels so attached, with con
dition that such writ shall be null and void, if at any time after final
judgment in the action in which such attachment shall have been ren
dered, such goods and chattels shall upon request therefore be, in as
good order and condition as when surrendered, returned to the officer
taking such bond, or to any officer who shall be charged with the ser
vice of an execution, levied upon the judgment rendered in such
action, unless such judgment shall have been paid, or shall be imme
diately paid, together with the costs upon such execution, upon the
making of such request or the return of such goods and chattels.
Of Property in the hands of Trustees and of Shares in Corporations.
Sec. 21. Whenever a writ shall command the attachment of the
shares of the defendant in any corporation, or of his personal estate
in the hands of another person, copartnership, or corporation, as his
trustee, it shall be served by leaving an attested copy thereof, having
endorsed thereon the date and time of day of such service, with the
person or some member of the copartnership named in such writ as
trustee, or if such trustee, or the corporation whose shares shall be
directed to be attached, shall be a bank, with the cashier thereof, if
an insurance company, with the president or secretary thereof, and if
any other corporation, with the treasurer thereof, or the agent or su
perintendent, at the manufactory where the person is employed whose
wages are to be trusteed, or the person executing the duties of treas
urer thereof j, and such officer shall also leave an attested copy of
such writ so endorsed with the defendant, or with some person at his
last and usual place of abode, or if he have none within the precinct
of such officer, the latter shall send such copy to the defendant by
mail, if his address is known to or can be ascertained by such officer.
Service upon non-resident Guardians, Administrators, and Executors.
Sec. 22. Service of any process at law or in equity may be made
by any disinterested person upon any non-resident guardian, executor,
or administrator appointed or approved by any court of probate in
this state, by reading such process to him, or by leaving an attested
copy thereof with him or with some person, at his last and usual
place of abode.
General Provisions relating to Service by Attachment.
Sec. 23. The officer to whom a writ of attachment shall be di
rected, commanding therein the attachment of different kinds of prop
erty, shall be entitled to charge for only one attested copy of such writ,
for any one person, with whom such copy is required to be left.
Sec. 24. Such officer shall give to any defendant, his agent, or at
torney, or any other person interested in any action in which a writ
of attachment may have been served, upon his request, an attested
copy thereof with his doings thereon, upon being paid therefore a fee
of twenty cents for every page of two hundred words of such copy.
Sec. 25. The officer who shall make any such attachment shall, in
his return, set forth the time of the day when such attachment was
made, to the end that the priority of attachment may be known.
Sec. 26. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to destroy
or impair any lien or claim of any person or body corporate upon any
stock or shares attached under the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 27. In case any officer shall distrain for taxes, or by any
warrant of distress whatsoever, the goods and chattels of any person,
he shall proceed in the same manner, and be holden to the same
rules, as hereinbefore directed in attachments in civil actions.
Sec. 28. No civil process whatever shall be served on Sunday, but
every such service shall be utterly void.
CHAPTER 197.
OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS CONCERNING ATTACHMENTS.
SUCTTOS
1. Order of satisfaction, in case of
attachments.
2. Live animals and perishable poods
attached, how may bo disposed
of.
3. Of notice of sale of, and of dispo
sition of proceeds of.
4. Personal estate mortgaged, when
and how attachable.
5. How and when may he sold.
6. Proceeds of sale of, how to be ap
plied.
7. Of plaintifffs right to redeem.
8. Attachment of, when void.
9. Corporation served with writ at
taching its stock or shares, how
to account.
10. Person, copartner, or officer of
corporation, so served as trustee,
how to account.
11. Oath of, before whom made and
where filed.
Section
12. Right of parties to examine person
so making oath.
13. Remedy against trustee admitting
property.
14. Remedy in case of several trus
tees.
15. Right of trustee to satisfy judg
ment.
16. Right of trustee to deliver specific
articles.
17. Effect of such delivery.
18. Consequences of trustee's neglect
to account.
19. Action, how brought, if several
trustees neglect.
20. Right of trustee to answer suit in
which he is served.
21. Consequences if trustee's account
shows no property.
22. Of trustee's costs.
23. Word " trustee," what words
deemed to include.
Section. 1. In all attachments of real estate, or of goods and
chattels, or of personal estate in the hands of a trustee, or of stock or
shares in any banking association or other incorporated company, he
who shall first procure any such attachment to be made for any just
debt or damages shall be entitled to have his debt or damages satis
fied before any other demand for which the same may be attached, or
taken by execution, at the suit of any other person ; and all others in
order of attachment.
Sec. 2. Whenever any officer shall attach on an original writ any
live animals, or any goods or chattels which are liable to perish or
waste, or to be greatly reduced in value by keeping, or which cannot
be kept without great and disproportionate expense, the court in
which the same may be pending, in term time, or either of the jus
tices of the supreme court, in vacation, may. on the written applica
tion of any person interested in such property, cause the defendant
and the attaching creditor, their attorneys or agents, to be notified to
appear at a time and place appointed for that purpose, to show cause
why the same should not be sold.
Sec. 3. If, after reasonable notice, no person appear, or no sufficient
cause 1x5 tne contrary be shown, the court or justice may direct the
officer to sell the same, in the manner prescribed by law for selling
goods and chattels on execution ; and such officer shall hold the pro
ceeds of such sales, after deducting therefrom the necessary charges
thereof, as security to satisfy such judgment as the attaching creditor
may recover, in the same manner as if he held the property itself.
Sec. 4. Personal estate, when mortgaged and in the possession of
tne mortgagor, and while the same is redeemable at law or in equity,
may be attached on mesne process against the mortgagor, in the same
manner as his other personal estate.
Sec. 5. When attached, such mortgaged estate may be sold, upon
tne application of the mortgagee, or of either of the parties to the
suit, in the manner provided for the sale of perishable goods and
chattels when attached on mesne process.
Sec. 6. Upon any such sale, the attaching officer shall first apply
so muc^ of *he proceeds of the sale as may be necessary to pay the
amount for which the said property was mortgaged, with such de
duction for interest for the anticipated payment, or allowance for
damages for such anticipated payment, as may be allowed by the court
or judge directing the sale ; and the officer shall hold only the balance,
for the purposes of the attachment.
Sec. 7. The plaintifff in any such attachment may redeem the
mortgaged estate in the same manner as the mortgagor might have
done ; and in case of such redemption, the plaintifff shall have the
same lien on the property for the amount paid by him, with interest,
as the mortgagee had.
Sec. 8. If the mortgage be not redeemed by the plaintifff, or sold
as oefore mentioned, before the redemption expires, the attachment
shall Income void.
Sec. 9. Whenever any banking association or incorporated company sha" serve(~ w'tn a copy of a writ attaching its stock or
shares, if a bank, the cashier thereof, if an insurance company, the
president or secretary thereof, and if any other corporation, the treas
urer thereof, or person executing the duties of treasurer, shall render
an account upon oath, to the court to which such writ shall be return
able, of what stock or shares the defendant had in such company at
the time of the serving such writ.
^KC' ^e person' member of the copartnership, or officer of
^e corporation with whom a copy of a writ shall have been left for
the purpose of attaching the personal estate of the defendant in the
nands or possession of such person, copartnership, or corporation as
trustee, shall render an account in writing upon oath, to the court to
which such writ is returnable, of what estate such person, copartner
ship, or corporation had in his hands or possession at the time such
writ was served, if any, or if he had none either directly or indirectly,
shall return such fact in writing under oath to such court.
Sec. 11. The disclosure made by virtue of either of the two preceding
sections shall be sworn to, before any person authorized to ad
minister oaths, and shall be filed with the clerk of the court, if there
be a clerk, otherwise with the court to which such writ shall be re
turnable.
Sec. 12. Either party may examine the person so making oath,
upon written interrogatories, to be filed with such clerk, or court, if
there be no clerk ; and such person, after having been furnished with
a copy of such interrogatories, shall answer the same responsively in
writing under oath, administered as aforesaid, and shall return the
answer to such clerk, or to such court, if there be no clerk, at such
time as such court may, by general rule, or by special order in such
case, direct.
Sec. 13. If it shall appear by the disclosure of the person making
such oath that the person, copartnership, or corporation served with
a copy of such writ, had at the time of service thereof any of the
personal estate of the defendant in his or their hands, then and in
such case the plaintifff, after having recovered judgment against such
defendant, may bring his action against such person, copartnership,
or corporation, to recover so much as will satisfy such judgment, with
interests and costs, if there shall appear by such disclosure to be a
sufficiency for the same ; otherwise, for so much as shall appear by
the same to be in his hands.
Sec. 14. Whenever it shall appear that several persons, copartnerships,
or corporations had property of the defendant as such trustee, the plaintifff may sue each separately, and recover the amount in
his hands, until such plaintifff shall receive full payment of his judg
ment against the original defendant, with interest and costs.
Sec. 15. Any trustee, after final judgment against the defendant,
may satisfy such judgment or any part thereof, to the amount of the
estate attached in his hands, before any suit shall be brought against
him therefore ; and such payment shall avail for his discharge, as
against both plaintifff and defendant, for the amount thereof.
Sec. 16. If it shall appear by the disclosure that the personal
estate in the hands of the trustee belonging to the defendant did
not consist of money, but of one or more specific articles, such trus
tee may, after final judgment shall have been rendered against the
defendant, surrender or deliver to the officer charged with the exe
cution issued on such judgment such specific articles, that the same
may be taken on such execution.
Sec. 17. Such surrender or delivery shall be a good discharge to
the trustee for such articles, as to both plaintifff and defendant in the
action.
Sec. 18. If any person, copartnership, or corporation, after being served as trustee with a copy of any writ, and after having been
tendered at the time of such service, or previous to or during the sitting
of the court, two dollars and his travelling fees as a witness in
the supreme court or court of common pleas, and one dollar and
like travelling fees in any other court, shall neglect or refuse to ren
der such an account on oath as aforesaid, of what personal estate of
the defendant he had in his hands at the time of the service of such
copy, such trustee shall be liable to satisfy the judgment that the
plaintifff shall obtain against the defendant in such writ, to be re
covered by special action on the case.
Sec. 19. If several trustees shall neglect or refuse to render an
account upon oath in the same case, then the plaintifff shall bring his
action against all such trustees jointly, and in no other manner.
Sec. 20. Every trustee who shall be served with such copy of a writ
against any defendant, shall have liberty to file an answer to such
action, and defend the suit in behalf and in the name of the defendant.
Sec. 21. If it shall appear by such disclosure that the person, copartnership, or corporation who had been served as trustee with a
copy of such writ had not any of the personal estate of the defendant in his hands, then such action shall be dismissed, and the person
who shall appear to defend the same shall recover his costs, unless
the writ has been duly served on the defendant.
Sue. 22. Every person, copartnership, or corporation served with
a copy of a writ for attaching the estate of another in their hands
shall be paid all lawful costs and charges which they shall be at, in
consequence of their being served with such writ of attachment, by
the person who brings the action ; and so much of such charge as
shall be judged reasonable by the court before whom the cause shall
be pending shall be allowed in the bill of costs.
Sec. 23. The word " trustee," wherever occurring in this title,
snan De (leemed to include the words " attorney, agent, factor, and
debtor."
CHAPTER 198.
OF EXEMPTIONS FROM ARREST AND FROM ATTACHMENT.
Section
1. Females not subject to arrest,
when.
2. Voters exempted, when.
Section
8. Military officers and privates,
when.
4. Property exempted from attach
ment.
Section 1. No female shall be arrested on original writ in any
action founded on contract.
Sec. 2. No person entitled to vote shall be liable to arrest upon
any civil process on the days of election for the choice of city or
town officers, of state officers, representatives to congress, or of elec
tors of president and vice-president of the United States, or on the
day preceding, or on the day following, such election.
Sec. 3. No officer, non-commissioned officer, or private shall be
arrested on civil process, while going to or coming from, or remain
ing at any place which he shall have been ordered to attend, for the
election of any military officer, or the performance of any military
duty.
Sec. 4. The following goods and property shall be exempted from
attachment on any warrant of distress, or any other writ, original,
mesne, or judicial : —
1. The necessary wearing apparel of a debtor, or of his family, if
he have a family.
2. The working tools of a debtor necessary in his or her usual
occupation, not exceeding in value the sum of two hundred dollars.
3. The household furniture and family stores of a housekeeper, in
the whole, including beds and bedding, not exceeding in value the sum
of three hundred dollars.
4. The bibles, school, and other books in use in the family, not ex
ceeding in value the sum of three hundred dollars.
5. One cow, and one and a half tons of hay, of a housekeeper.
6. One hog and one pig, and the pork of the same, when slaugh
tered, of a housekeeper.
7. The uniform, arms, ammunition, and equipments of every offi
cer, non-commissioned officer, and private in the'militia ; and the arms,
ammunition, and equipments of any person, which are kept for use,
and not for sale.
8. The debtor's interest in one pew, in any church or meetinghouse,
in which he or his family usually worship.
9. The debtor's interest in one lot, or right of burial, as the case
may be, in any cemetery.
10. Mariners' wages, until after the termination of the voyage in
which such wages shall have been earned.
11. Debts secured by bills of exchange or negotiable promissory
notes. ' '
12. The salary or wages due or payable to any debtor not exceeding
the sum of ten dollars, except when the cause of action is for
necessaries furnished the defendant.
13. Such other property, real, personal, or mixed, in possession
or action, as is or shall be exempted from attachment and execution, either permanently or temporarily, by general or special acts,
charters of incorporation, or by the policy of the law.
Section 1. All actions and appeals shall be entered in the su
preme court and court of common pleas, on the first or second
days of the term, and not afterwards, without special leave of the
court.
Sec. 2. Such leave may be granted in case the party whose duty
it was to enter the action or appeal was prevented from so doing by
accident, mistake, or misfortune.
Sec. 3. No action or appeal shall be deemed to be entered, until
the necessary papers are filed with, and the legal entry paid to the
clerk.
Sec. 4. No summons, writ, declaration, return, process, judgment,
or other proceeding in civil causes, in any of the courts, shall be
abated, arrested, quashed, or reversed for any defect or want of form ;
but the courts respectively shall proceed and give judgment according
as the right of the cause and matter in law shall appear unto them,
without regarding any imperfections, defects, or want of form in such
writ, declaration, or other pleadings, return, process, judgment, or
proceeding whatsoever.
Sec. 5. The courts, respectively shall and may, from time to time,
amend all and every such imperfections, defects, and want of form,
and may, at any time, permit either of the parties to amend any de
fect in the process or pleadings, upon such conditions as such courts
respectively shall, in their discretion, or by general rule, prescribe.
Sec. 6. If any writ or process shall be brought against any trad
ing or manufacturing company, not incorporated, which shall not be
served on all the partners, or in which the name of any partner shall
be omitted, the court, on motion of any person, party thereto, may,
and in case the same be pleaded shall, issue a summons to the partner
omitted or not served, if within this state ; such motion or plea being
accompanied with an affidavit of the person making the same.
Sec. 7. Such omitted partner, being served with such summons
twenty days at least before trial, shall be deemed to be a party to the
suit, to all intents and purposes, and the writ and declaration shall be
amended accordingly ; and such partner may file his plea in said
action at any time within said twenty days, or after that time, by
leave of court, upon cause shown.
Sec. 8. If it shall be found that the party summoned was not a
partner with the original defendants, the court shall render judgment
against the party summoning him, in favor of such party for his costs,
and in favor of the plaintifff against the original defendants for the
damages or debts proved, with costs, unless such party summoned
was made party on motion of the plaintifff ; in which case judgment
shall be rendered in favor of all the defendants for their costs against
the plaintifff.
Sec. 9. If there shall in any case be two or more plaintifffs or de
fendants, and one or more of them shall die, if the cause of action
shall survive to the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, or against the sur
viving defendant or defendants, the writ or action shall not be thereby
abated, but such death being suggested upon the record, the action
shall proceed at the suit of the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, or
against the surviving defendant or defendants.
CHAPTER 200.
OF THE DISCONTINUANCE OF ACTIONS.
Section
1. Right of plaintifff to discontinue
action.
Section
2. Duty of clerk to enter same dis
continued.
Section 1. The plaintifff in any civil suit or action, in which process
has been returned to the supreme court or court of common
pleas, may discontinue the same by filing in the office of the clerk of
such court a written notice of the discontinuance, signed by himself or
by his attorney, and stating therein the action discontinued and the
time of discontinuance ; and if the suit or action shall have been
answered, a copy of such notice shall be given immediately to the
defendant or his attorney of record, and no costs accruing after such
notice shall be taxable for the defendant.
Sec. 2. The clerk of the court shall enter the action or suit, if discontinued in vacation, upon the docket of the court at its next term,
in the same manner as if it had not been discontinued, with a minute
of the discontinuance, and the time thereof.
CHAPTER 201.
OF PLEADINGS, TENDER, AND SET-OFF.
Section
1 . Declaration, when and where to be
filed.
2. Pleas, when and where to be filed.
3. Of special leave to file pleas.
4. Of filing pleas in civil actions ap
pealed from justice courts.
5. Pleas of absent defendants in case
of attachment of real estate, or
of foreign attachment, when to
be filed.
6. Of notice by defendant in actions
of libel and slander that he will
prove truth, &c.
7. Of double pleas and replications.
8. Of plea of payment in debt on
Section
bond, or in debt or scire facias
on judgment.
9. Of plea of payment of debt on
bond after day.
10. Of disclaimer and tender in court,
and of amends.
11. Effect of receipt of tender in part
satisfaction only.
12. Of filing account of particulars.
13. Of filing account in set-off.
14. Of set-off.
15 Statement of demands in set-off,
when to be filed, and of judg
ment in case of set-off.
Section 1. In any civil action originally brought in the supreme
court or court of common pleas, except in a special court of common
pleas, the plaintifff shall declare therein and file his declaration in the
clerk's office of the court, twelve days before the sitting of the court
to which the writ in such cause or suit is returnable.
Sec. 2. The defendant shall file his plea or answer with the clerk
six days before the sitting of the court, or judgment shall pass against
him as for a default.
Sec. 3. The court may, for cause shown, permit the defendant, on
the first or second day of the term, to file his plea or answer in court,
upon such terms and conditions as the court may prescribe.
Sec. 4. The defendant in a civil action appealed from the judg
ment of a justice court may file any plea or answer therein other
than a plea of abatement, on or before the second day of the term of
the court at which such appeal is entered.
Sec. 5. In case any action commenced by attachment of real es
tate or by foreign attachment shall not be answered, and the defend
ant shall not return into this state before the return of the writ, the
court shall continue the action one term, and the defendant shall have
a right to answer the same six days previous to the term to which such
action shall be continued, or may be permitted to answer the same on
the first or second day of said term, in like manner as is provided in
the next preceding section.
Sec. 6. In every action for libel or slander, the defendant may,
with his plea of not guilty, file a written notice that he will prove the
truth of the publication charged as libellous, or of the words charged
as slanderous, and in such case may, upon the trial, give the truth in
evidence, which evidence shall be deemed a sufficient justification,
without any special plea of justification.
Sec. 7. Any defendant in any action or suit, and any plaintifff in
replevin, may in any court, with leave of such court, plead as many
several matters thereto as he shall think necessary to his defense ;
and, with like leave, any plaintifff may reply as many several matters
to the defendant's plea or pleas as he shall think necessary.
Sec. 8. Whenever any action of debt shall be brought upon any
bond without condition, or whenever an action of debt or writ of scire
facias shall be brought on any judgment, if the defendant has paid
the money due upon such bond or judgment, such payment may be
pleaded in bar of such action or suit.
Sec. 9. Whenever any action of debt shall be brought upon any
bond which has a condition or defeasance to make void the same
upon the payment of a less sum at a day or place certain, if the
obligor, his heirs, executors, or administrators have, before the action
brought, paid to the obligee, his executors, or administrators, the
principal and interest due by the defeasance or condition of such bond,
though such payment was not made strictly according to the condition
or defeasance, yet it shall and may, nevertheless, be pleaded in bar of
such action ; and shall be as effectual a bar thereof as if the money
had been paid at the day and place, according to the condition or de
feasance, and had been so pleaded.
Sec. 10. The defendant in every action of debt, action of covenant,
and in every action on the case grounded on an express or implied
contract, in every action of trespass for breaking and entering the
plaintifff's close, wherein the defendant shall, in his plea, disclaim all
right, title, and interest in and to the said close, and in every action
of trespass or trespass on the case for any injury done to personal
property, or of trover, that may be pending before any court, shall
have right to make and plead a tender ; or may have leave to bring
into court the money which he shall acknowledge to be due on such
contract, or sufficient amends for such trespass or injury, together with
the plaintifff's lawful costs expended up to the time of the tender made
or pleaded, or the bringing of the money into court ; and the plaintifff
shall have a right to take the same in full or in part satisfaction of
the demand made in such suit.
Sec. 11. If the plaintifff, in either of the above cases, shall receive
the same in part satisfaction only, and shall proceed further in the
same suit, and the court or jury who shall finally assess the damages
in such case shall determine that no more was due on the demand
made in such suit than was tendered or brought into court as afore
said, at the time the same was tendered or brought in, the plaintifff
shall not recover costs, but shall be obliged to pay the defendant his
costs, after such tender or after the money was brought into court as
aforesaid, as the case may be.
Sec. 12. Whenever au action shall be brought to recover a debt
due on any book account, the plantiff shall annex to his declaration,
on filing the same, an account of particulars.
Sec. 13. The defendant in such case, and also in all actions on an
account stated by the parties, a quantum meruit, quantum valebat, or
for goods sold, or for services done at an agreed price, may plead the
general issue, and may file any account he hath with his said plea ;
and the court or jury who shall assess the damages in such case shall
determine the balance due to either party ; and the party in whose
favor the balance shall be found shall recover judgment therefore, to
gether with his costs, and shall have execution accordingly.
Sec. 14. If any defendant shall have a demand on the plaintifff for
any sum liquidated, or for one which may be ascertained by calcula
tion, and which is founded on a judgment, or upon an account, or
upon any contract, whether express or implied, and whether with or
without a seal, and which existed at the time of the commencement
of the action and then belonged to the defendant in his own right,
and for which he might maintain a suit in his own name, he may set
off the same in any action founded upon any demand which could it
self be set off.
Sec. 15. To entitle the defendant to a set-off, he shall file a statement of his demands in court, or in the clerk's office, at the term in
which the action is entered, on or before the second day of said term,
or within such further time as the court shall allow, and shall set
forth his demands with as much certainty as would be required in
a declaration ; and the court in which the action may be pending
may render judgment for the defendant, for the balance due to him,
with costs.
Section 1. No judge of any court, or trial justice, shall sit in
judgment in any cause in the event of which he is interested : Pro
vided, that residence and payment of taxes in any town, or an inter
est in common with all the inhabitants of such town, shall not ex
clude a judge or justice from sitting in any cause to which such
town is a party, or in which the same or the inhabitants of the same
are interested, unless objection shall be made.
Sec. 2. Bills and petitions in equity commenced in one county
may be heard and decided in any other county, at the discretion of
the supreme court, if in session, and in case of motions, at the dis
cretion of a single justice in vacation ; and said court shall have
power to make all such rules and orders as may, in their opinion, be
necessary or expedient to carry this provision into full effect.
Sec. 3. By consent of parties, or their counsel, in writing and of
record, any question of law or of fact in which jury trial shall have
been waived or not demanded, in any action, suit, or other proceeding
at law or in equity, may, in the discretion of the court, be heard and
determined in any county; but such case shall be recorded in the
county in which the same shall have been commenced.
Sec. 4. In all cases in which power is conferred on a single jus
tice of the supreme court to hear and determine on any matter, such
hearing shall be, unless otherwise ordered by the justice, in the office
of the clerk of the court in the county in which the same shall be
heard.
Sec. 5. Such justice shall certify his proceedings to the clerk of
the court in the county in which the matter or cause shall be pend
ing, and return to him the original papers in such matter or cause, to
be by him kept on file in his office.
Sec. 6. The plaintifff or appellant in any cause shall not have a
right to become nonsuit or to discontinue the same, in the supreme
court, after the same shall be submitted to the decision of the jury ;
but the cause shall, in the discretion of the court, proceed, and the
verdict of the jury be taken therein, whether the plaintifff or appel
lant shall appear or not.
Sec. 7. In all cases in the supreme court and court of common pleas,
except when otherwise provided, if judgment be rendered on default,
discontinuance, submission, or demurrer, damages shall be assessed by
the court, with or without the intervention of a jury, at the discretion
of the court.
Sec. 8. In all actions or suits, which shall be pending before any
court in this state, the parties therein may waive the right of trial by
jnry ; and in such case the court shall hear, try, and determine the
said case, both as to the law and as to the facts, and render judgment
therein ; any law, rule, or usage to the contrary notwithstanding.
Views.
Section 1. In all cases relating to the realty, either party may views, when
have the jury to view the place in question, if the court shall he of to De granted :
opinion that such view is necessary.
Sec. 2. To entitle himself to such view, the party moving therefore Upon what
shall advance such reasonable sum of money to the sheriff to defray terms,
the expenses of the jury on such view as the court may order ; and
the amount of such expenses shall be taxed against the adverse party,
if he who advanced the same shall recover costs in the suit.
Witnesses.
Sec. 3. The form of a subpoena to a witness shall be substantially
as follows :
Se. To of greeting: —
You are hereby required, in the name of the State of Rhode Island
and Providence Plantations, to make your appearance before the
court next to be holden at within and for our
county of on the Monday of
dence of what you know relating to an action or plea of
then and there to be heard and tried, betwixt plaintifff, and
defendant. Hereof fail not, as you will answer your default
under the penalty of the law, in that behalf made and provided.
Dated at the day of in the year
Clerk.
Sec. 4. Clerks of courts may issue subpoenas to witnesses in all
cases pending in any court.
Sec. 5. Auditors, referees, arbitrators, masters in chancery, and
commissioners may issue writs of summons to witnesses in all cases
and matters pending before them respectively ; and justices of the
peace may issue subpoenas to witnesses in any case civil or criminal
before any court.
Sec. 6. Every town council, city council, board of aldermen, and
school committee may, by their respective officers, summon witnesses
to testify in any matter pending before them, may administer oaths to
such witnesses, may compel their attendance, and punish them for
non-attendance, by fine not exceeding fifty dollars.
Sec. 7. A subpoena to a witness shall be served by reading the
same to him.
Sec. 8. Every witness who shall be duly served with a subpoena
in behalf of any party to a suit or proceeding, civil or criminal, and
shall have his lawful fees tendered to him for his travel from his place
of abode to the place at which he shall be summoned to attend, and
for one day's attendance, shall be obliged to attend accordingly.
Sec. 9. A witness summoned in behalf of the state shall have no
right to have his fees paid or tendered to him before he shall be
bound to obey the same.
Sec. 10. Every witness who does not appear according to the
tenor of such subpoena, having no reasonable let or hinderance to the
contrary, shall be liable to the action of the aggrieved party for all
damages sustained in consequence of such default.
Sec. 1 1 . The court or justice before which any such witness is
summoned to appear may, by writ of attachment, compel his attend
ance, fine him, not exceeding twenty dollars, and order him to pay
the costs of such attachment, and to be committed to prison until
such fine and costs be paid.
Sec. 12. Whenever any witness duly served with a subpoena to
testify in any criminal proceeding, at any term of the supreme court
or court of common pleas, shall neglect to appear according to the
tenor of such subpoena, such court may order a writ of attachment to
issue against him, returnable either at said term or the next term of
the same court ; and may direct the same to each and all sheriffs, dep
uty sheriffs, town sergeants, and constables within the state.
Sec. 13. If the court from which such writ of attachment issues
shall not be in session at the time of the service of such writ, the
officer charged with the service thereof shall commit such witness to
jail, either in the county from which the writ may issue or in which
such witness may be ; there to be kept, until he shall give recogni
zance before some magistrate of the same county, with sufficient
surety, in the sum of one hundred dollars, to appear before said court
on the second day of the next term thereof, which recognizance shall
be returned by said magistrate unto the clerk of said court.
Sec. 14. Such witness may give such recognizance while in custody
of the officer, before he is committed to jail, and thereupon the
officer shall discharge him from custody.
Sue. 15. Every witness, previous to his obtaining any fee, except
the amount which in certain cases must be tendered to him before he
can be compelled to attend, shall give a certificate to the clerk of the
court or justice wherein or before whom his attendance shall be
given, certifying the number of days he shall have attended, and the
number of miles he shall have travelled, in pursuance of a summons
issued for that purpose, which certificate shall be subject to the ex
amination of the court or justice, and such allowance shall be made
thereon as shall be lawfully due.
Depositions.
Sec. 16. Any justice of the supreme court, justice of the peace, or
notary public may take the deposition of any witness to be used in
the trial of any civil suit or action in which he is not interested, nor
of counsel, nor the attorney of either party, and which shall then be
commenced or pending in this state, or in any other state or govern
ment.
Sec. 17. Every magistrate and officer, previous to the taking of
any deposition as aforesaid within this state, shall cause the adverse
party, if residing in this state, or within one hundred miles of the
place of caption, or, in case of his absence, his attorney known to be
such, to be notified of the time and place appointed for taking the
same, that he may attend and put interrogatories to the deponent if
he thinks fit.
Sec. 18. The notification shall be issued by the magistrate, officer,
or commissioner who shall take such deposition, and shall be directed
to any proper officer, or to any impartial or disinterested person, and
shall be served a reasonable time, not less than twenty-four hours, be
fore the time of taking such deposition.
Sec. 19. The officer, or other person, charged as aforesaid with
such notification, shall serve the same by reading it to the party to be
cited, if to be found, and if not to be found, by leaving a copy thereof
at his usual place of abode ; and shall, in his return, state the man
ner and time of such service ; and when such service shall be made
by any person other than a sworn officer, he shall verify the same
under oath, before some justice or notary.
Sec. 20. In the taking of a deposition without the limits of this
state, the party causing such deposition to be taken shall notify the
adverse party, or his known attorney, of the time and place appointed
for taking the same ; and such notification, issued by any justice or
notary in this state, or by the magistrate or commissioner taking such
deposition, shall be served in the manner hereinbefore provided, such
reasonable time before the taking of such deposition, as will give the
adverse party a full opportunity to be present in person, or by attor
ney, and put interrogatories to the deponent, if he think fit.
Sec. 21. Every person before deposing shall be sworn to testify
the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. He shall sub
scribe the testimony by him given after the same shall be reduced to
writing, which shall be done only by such magistrate, officer, or
commissioner taking the deposition, or by the deponent in the pres
ence or under the direction of such magistrate, officer, or commis
sioner.
Sec. 22. The deposition so taken shall be retained by such justice,
notary, or commissioner, until he deliver the same with his own hand
to the court for which it is taken, or shall, together with a certificate
of its having been duly taken, be by said justice, notary, or commis
sioner, sealed up and directed to such court, and remain so sealed
until opened by order of the court, or of some justice thereof ; and
any person may be compelled to appear and depose as aforesaid
within this state, in the same manner as to appear and testify in
court.
Sec. 23. The deposition of any person taken pursuant to this
chapter shall be used as evidence in the trial of any cause in which
it shall have been taken to be used ; and if the party that took the
same shall neglect to produce or use it, the adverse party may use in
such trial the original, or a copy of such deposition, certified by the
magistrate before whom it was taken.
Sec. 24. If any witness shall be induced to go out of this state in
order that his deposition may be taken without the adverse party's
having due notice, the deposition of such witness, taken by such un
due means, shall not be used or admitted as evidence in any court in
this state.
Sec. 25. Depositions taken without this state, to be used in the
trial of any cause pending in any court in this state, shall be received
as evidence : Provided, such depositions shall be taken with the for
malities required by the law of the state or country in which the same
shall have been taken, or before some commissioner appointed by the
governor, or by some judge, chancellor, or other civil magistrate of
such state or country, in conformity to the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 26. The supreme court, or court of common pleas, or any
justice court, may, on the motion of either party in any suit or pro
ceeding, civil or criminal, pending therein, in which a deposition may
be used, grant a commission to take depositions according to law
whenever it may be necessary to prevent a failure or delay of justice.
Sec. 27. No deposition taken within one hundred miles of the
place of trial shall be used on the trial of any cause in any court in
this state, which shall have been taken during the sitting of the court
before which the cause may be pending, unless the same shall have
been taken by order of such court.
Sec. 28. Depositions may be taken in this state, to be used on the
trial of any cause pending in any other state or government, by any
person residing in this state to whom a commission shall be directed
and sent by such court, with such formalities as shall be prescribed in
such commission, or as are prescribed in this chapter.
Depositions in perpetual memory.
Sec. 29. Any justice of the supreme court, or master in chancery,
as well before as after the commencement of any civil suit or action,
on ipplicat'0n, may take depositions in perpetual memory; which
depositions in case of the death of any deponent, his becoming non
compos mentis, his absence from this state, or inability to attend, may
be used as evidence in any court in this state against any person who
shall have had due notice of the taking of such deposition, his heirs,
executors, administrators, or assigns.
Sec. 30. The same formalities shall be observed in the taking of
depositions in perpetual memory, as in the taking of other deposi
tions.
Sec. 31. The justice or master taking such deposition shall seal
up and direct the same to the clerk of the supreme court in the
county in which some one of the persons notified of the taking of the
same shall reside ; which clerk, on receiving such deposition so
directed and sealed up, upon payment of legal fees for recording as
in other cases, shall open and record the same, and the certificate of
the caption thereof, in a book to be specially kept for that purpose ;
noting on such deposition the time when he received it, and the page
of the book in which it is recorded ; after which he shall deliver the
original deposition to the party who took it ; and no such deposition,
not so recorded, shall be received as evidence in any court in this
state, unless the same shall be opened in such court.
Certain provisions respecting evidence.
Sec. 32. No person shall be disqualified from testifying in any action at law, suit in equity, or other proceeding at law or in equity, by
reason of his being interested therein, or being a party thereto : Provided,
that when an original party to the contract or cause of action
is dead, or when an executor or administrator is a party to the suit,
the other party may be called as a witness by his opponent, but shall
not be admitted to testify upon his own offer, or upon the call of his
co-plaintifff or co-defendant, otherwise than now by law allowed, unless
a nominal party merely.
Sec. 33. In every civil action or civil proceeding at law, a party
thereto, or any other person, may testify by deposition or orally in
court, except as otherwise in this chapter provided.
Sec. 34. In every suit or other proceeding in equity, a party
thereto shall testify only by deposition, except in the trial of an issue
of fact to the jury, when he may testify by deposition or orally in
court. In such suit or proceeding, either party may summon or per
mit the other to testify orally in court, and other persons shall testify
therein by deposition, unless otherwise ordered by the court in ses
sion, or by a justice thereof in vacation.
Sec. 35. The court, or any justice thereof, may order the oral
examination of witnesses in open court in any matter, and may ap. ,, r , . . J » i *
point some suitable person to report the testimony of such witnesses,
The expense of such report shall be paid in the first instance by the
party introducing the evidence, and shall constitute a part of the tax
able costs in such cases.
Sec. 36. In the trial of every civil cause, except a petition for
divorce, the husband and wife of either party shall be deemed com.
petent witnesses : Provided, that neither shall be permitted to give
any testimony tending to criminate the other, or to disclose any com
munication made to him or her, by the other, during their marriage,
Sec. 37. Depositions taken in conformity to the provisions of this
chapter may be used in the trial of any bastardy case.
Sec. 38. No person shall be deemed an incompetent witness because
of his conviction of any crime or sentence to imprisonment
therefore, but shall be admitted to testify like any other witness, except that such conviction or sentence may be shown to affect his cred
ibility.
Sec. 39. No respondent in a criminal prosecution, offering himself
as a witness, shall be excluded from testifying because he is such re
spondent, and the neglect or refusal so to testify shall create no pre
sumption against him.
Sue. 40. The husband or wife of any respondent in a criminal
prosecution, offering himself or herself as a witness, shall not be ex
cluded from testifying therein because he or she is the husband or
wife of such respondent.
Sec. 41. It shall not be necessary to prove by the attesting wit
ness any instrument to the validity of which attestation is not re
quisite ; and such instrument may be proved by admission or other
wise, as if there had been no attesting witness thereto.
Sec. 42. Comparison of a disputed writing with any writing
proved to the satisfaction of the judge to be genuine shall be permit
ted to be made by witnesses ; and such writings, and the evidence of
witnesses respecting the same, may be submitted to the court and
jury, as evidence of the genuineness or otherwise of the writing in
dispute.
Sec. 43. In all courts of law, and before all tribunals, a copy of
any newspaper or extract of any newspaper contained in either of
the bound volumes deposited with the Rhode Island Historical So
ciety for the northern district, or with its cabinet keeper, under the
provisions of chapter nineteen, sections ten and eleven, certified by
the said cabinet keeper, shall be of equal value with the paper itself ;
and said cabinet keeper shall be entitled to the same fees for copies
and certificates as are allowed by law therefore to town clerks.
Sec. 44. Whenever either party to any proceeding at law or
equity in the supreme court, or to any proceeding at law in the court
of common pleas, shall set forth in writing, under oath, upon his
knowledge or belief, that the opposite party is in the possession or
control of some document to which the applicant is entitled, such
court or a justice may order such opposite party, or if the same be a
body corporate, then some officer thereof, to make answer on oath,
at or before a time to be fixed in said order, as to what document
he so has, relating to the matter in dispute between the parties, or
what he knows as to the custody of such document, and if in his pos
session or control, whether he objects to the production of the same,
and the grounds of such objection, and thereupon such court or jus
tice may require the production of said document, or may compel the
party having the same in his possession or control to allow the ap
plicant to inspect the same, and if necessary, to take examined copies
of the same, and may make such further order thereon as shall be
just.
Sec. 45. The court or justice making such order or decree may
enforce the same in like manner as if made in a suit in equity.
Sec. 46. In actions of ejectment, and trespass and ejectment to
recover possession of lands, tenements, or hereditaments, the plaintifff
shall not be required to prove an actual entry under his title, but if
he proves that he is entitled to such an estate as he claims in the
premises, whether as heir, devisee, purchaser, or otherwise, and also
that he has a right of entry therein, this shall be deemed sufficient
proof of his seizin as alleged in his declaration ; but no such action
shall be maintained unless the plaintifff has, at the time of commenc
ing the same, a right of entry into the premises.
Section 1. The supreme court and court of common pleas may
permit the parties in any suit pending in said courts respectively, to
enter into a rule of such court to refer such suit to the decision of
one or more referees, to be agreed upon by the parties ; and also
to refer in the same rule any other actions or causes of action that
may subsist between them, either jointly or severally, generally or
specially.
Sec. 2. Though no suit be brought, said courts shall have power
to permit any persons who may have causes of action subsisting be
tween them, to enter a rule of said court, to refer the same to a de
cision of a referee or referees as aforesaid, generally or specially.
Sec. 3. The parties to any rule may agree upon the time and
manner of making report and of issuing execution on the judgment
that may be rendered thereon, conforming to law ; and every such
agreement, made in manner aforesaid, shall be conclusive upon the
parties ; and the court shall render judgment upon the report of the
referees conformable thereto, and issue execution accordingly.
Sec. 4. The court may at any time, in their discretion, or on mo
tion of either party, discharge a rule or recommit a rule and report
to the same referees ; but a rule shall remain in full force until so
discharged, and shall be so continued from term to term until report
shall be made thereon.
Sec. 5. Any persons having any action or cause of action subsist
ing between them may file with the clerk of the supreme court or
court of common pleas in the county where either or all of them re
side, in the vacation of the said courts, a petition setting forth said
facts, and that they have mutually agreed to refer the same to the
decision of certain persons named therein as referees ; whereupon
the clerk shall enter such petition on the docket of the business of
said court for the next term, make out a writ to such referees, and
annex thereto or embody therein such petition, which shall authorize
them to hear and determine such dispute, with the same powers, and
in the same manner and with the same effect, as though such petition
had been filed in open court.
Sec. 6. The report of referees made under a petition and rule
entered in vacation shall be made to the next or some other term of
the court in which the same are entered ; and the court shall have
the same power over a petition and rule so entered as if entered in
open court.
Sec. 7. The parties to any suit that may be pending before any
justice court shall have a right to enter into a rule to refer the same,
and to include therein any other demands between them, not exceed
ing in the whole on either side the amount of one hundred dollars,
and in which the title to real estate shall not be concerned ; and every
justice court shall have like power, and similar proceedings shall be
had thereon, as are given and prescribed in this chapter respecting
rules that may be entered in the supreme court and court of common
pleas.
Sec. 8. Every referee, before he proceeds to the business of the
reference, shall take an oath faithfully and impartially to hear and ex
amine the cause, and make a true and just report, according to the
best of his skill and understanding ; which oath may be taken before
any judge of any court of record, or any justice of the peace or
notary public.
Sec. 9. Referees and arbitrators shall have power to administer
oaths to all witnesses in any matter tried before them, and shall also
have power to compel the attendance of witnesses before them, in
the same manner and by a similar process as courts of record are au
thorized to compel the attendance of witnesses ; and any summons
for witnesses may be issued and signed by any one referee or arbi
trator, or by the clerk of the court from which the rule is issued.
Sec. 10. Whenever a cause is at issue in the supreme court or court
of common pleas in any way involving accounts, the court may ap
point one or more auditors, to hear the parties, examine their vouch
ers and evidence, state accounts, and report upon such matters therein
as may be ordered by the court.
Sec. 11. The auditor or auditors, after being sworn to a faithful
and impartial discharge of his or their duties, shall notify the parties
of the time and place of their meeting, and may adjourn from time
to time as may be necessary ; and if there be more than one auditor,
all shall meet and hear the cause, but the report of a majority shall be
valid.
Sec. 12. If the plaintifff or defendant shall unreasonably refuse or
neglect to appear at the time and place appointed for the hearing, the
auditors may proceed with the cause, and report ex parte.
Sec. 13. The parties to such action shall be allowed two days
after the coming in of the report, and such further time as the court
may allow for cause shown, to examine the same and file their ex
ceptions thereto.
Sec. 14. The auditors shall file with their report a statement both
of the plaintifff's and defendant's costs, and the party prevailing in
the cause shall recover his costs ; and the court shall award such rea
sonable compensation to the auditors as shall seem just, to be paid by
the parties as the court shall direct.
Sec. 15. The court may, for cause, discharge the auditors and ap
point others, or fill vacancies ; and may recommit the report for re
vision or further examination to the same or to other auditors.
Sec. 16. The court upon the reception of the report, if no legal
cause be shown against the allowance of the same, shall render such
judgment thereon as to right and justice shall appertain ; such judgment shall be final, unless within two days thereafter the plaintifff or
defendant shall, in writing, file with the clerk of the court in which
said cause is pending a demand for a jury trial thereof ; in which trial
the report shall be prima facie evidence upon such matters only as
are embraced in the order : Provided, that neither party shall have a
second jury trial of such action without cause.
Sec. 17. The supreme court shall appoint in each county one or
more standing masters in chancery, to hold office during the pleasure
of the court; and may make all such rules and orders with regard to
proceedings by and before such masters, their reports, and exceptions
to, and hearings on the same, as to them shall seem expedient.
Sec. 18. Masters in chancery, auditors, and referees, duly appointed, shall have the same power to issue writs of protection to
parties and witnesses in matters pending before them, as is possessed
by the courts from which they derive their appointment; and the
signing of such writs by any one master, auditor, or referee, who has
been duly sworn, shall be sufficient.
CHAPTER 205.
OF JUDGMENTS, AND OF INTEREST ON JUDGMENTS, VERDICTS,
AWARDS, AND REPORTS.
Section
1. Judgment of court, when to be
entered, and time of, how noted.
2. In actions for breach of bond or
for penalty of agreement, judg
ment how to be entered.
3. 4, and 5. Execution in such case,
for how much, and how to
issue.
Section
6. Action for covenant broken in such
case, saved.
7. Judgment in ejectment on mort
gage, what.
8. Of set-off of judgments.
9. Of interest on judgments.
10. Of interest on verdicts, awards,
and reports of masters in chan
cery and auditors.
Section 1. Every judgment shall be entered as of the last day of
the term in which it is rendered, unless there be an express order of
the court for the entry thereof on some other day ; in which case the
day shall be noted by the clerk on his docket.
Sec. 2. In all actions brought for the breach of the condition of a
bond, or to recover a penalty for the non-performance of any cove
nant, contract, or agreement, when it shall appear by verdict, default,
submission, or otherwise, that the condition is broken or the penalty
forfeited, judgment shall be entered in the common form for the penal
sum, but no execution shall issue thereon, except as is provided in
the two following sections.
Sec. 3. The court shall award an execution in such case for so
much of the penal sum as shall then be due and payable in equity
and good conscience, for the breach of the condition, or other non
performance of the contract, which sum shall be ascertained and de
termined by the court, unless either party shall move to have it
assessed by a jury, or unless the court shall think it proper to have
the question so decided ; in which case the sum so due shall be
assessed by a jury.
Sec. 4. If any further sum shall afterwards become due on such
bond or other contract, the plaintifff, or his executor or administrator,
may have a scire facias on the judgment from the court in which it
was rendered against the original defendant, or his executors, admin
istrators, heirs, devisees, or assigns, as the case may be, suggesting
such further breaches of the contract as shall have occurred, and
summoning the adverse party to show cause why execution should not
be awarded upon the judgment, for the damages caused by such fur
ther breaches.
Sec. 5. The sum due in such suit shall be assessed and determined
in the same manner as in the original suit, and execution shall be
awarded accordingly, and the like proceedings may be repeated upon
occasion of any further breaches of the same contract, as often as
they shall occur, until the whole of the penalty is exhausted.
Sec. 6. Nothing herein contained shall prevent any person from
bringing an action for the breach of any covenant or other contract,
instead of suing for the penalty by which the performance of the cov
enant or contract may have been secured.
Sec. 7. In every action of ejectment, or trespass and ejectment,
for possession of any real estate mortgaged, in which the defendant
by his plea shall aver a right of redemption in himself or in the per
son under whom he claims, which averment shall not be traversed
by the plaintifff, or if traversed shall be found true, the court before
which the same shall be pending shall, by themselves or by one or
more judicious and disinterested men by them appointed, ascertain,
according to the rules of equity, the just sum due on such mortgage ;
and shall thereupon render a conditional judgment, that if the mortgagor,
his heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns shall pay unto
the plaintifff in such action, or deposit in the clerk's office for him, the
sum adjudged due as aforesaid, within two months from the time of
entering up judgment, with interest, then the mortgage or deed ope
rating as such shall be void and discharged, otherwise that the plain
tiff shall have his writ of possession.
Sec. 8. Whenever any court shall, at the same term, render final
judgment for debts or damages in two or more personal actions, in
which the parties shall be reversed, and shall sue and be sued in the
same right and capacity, such court shall set off the debts or damages
recovered in such judgments, and shall issue execution for the balance
only, in favor of the party to whom it shall be due, with costs, if
costs were recovered, and for costs only, if no balance upon such set
off be left ; and a separate execution shall be issued in favor of the
other party for costs, if costs were recovered by him.
Sec 9. Every judgment for debt or damages shall draw interest
on such debt or damages, from the time of its rendition to the time
of its discharge.
Sec. 10. Verdicts, awards of referees, and reports of masters in
chancery, or of auditors ascertaining amounts due from party to
party by way of debt or damages, shall, if, and in so far as confirmed
by judgment or decree, draw interest on such debt or damages ; if a
verdict, from the time the same is rendered, and if an award or re
port, from the time the same is dated or made up : Provided, there
be nothing in the verdict, award, or report to the contrary thereof, or
plainly inconsistent therewith.
Section 1. In civil causes at law, the party prevailing shall re
cover costs, except where otherwise specially provided.
Sec. 2. In all actions of partition, the court before which the
same may be pending may adjudge and determine as to them shall
appear equitable and just, relative to the apportionment of costs
among the parties, plaintifff and defendant, by dividing the same
equally, or subjecting either party to the payment of the whole or
any part thereof.
Sec. 3. The supreme court and court of common pleas may divide
or apportion between the parties in a suit pending, the fees of sur
veyors and other persons performing services therein by direction of
the court.
Sec. 4. In all actions of the case for slanderous words that shall
be commenced in any court, in all actions of the case for malicious
prosecution, and in all actions of trespass for assault and battery, or
imprisonment, that shall be commenced in the supreme court or court
of common pleas, if the court or jury who shall assess the damages
therein shall assess the same at a less sum than seven dollars, the
plaintifff in such case, shall recover no more costs than damages.
Sec. 5. In all actions in which judgment is rendered on appeal,
the court rendering judgment may award costs for or against the
plaintifff or defendant, or for neither, in their discretion, according to
the circumstances of the case, and may upon motion and for cause
shown disallow the amount of costs taxable in any case for travel,
attendance, or attorney's fees.
Sec. 6. Courts may award costs on motions filed in suits, actions,
and other proceedings at law or in equity pending before them, for or
against either party in their discretion, and upon such terms and con
ditions as they may prescribe by general rule or otherwise.
Sec. 7. In all cases in which power is conferred upon a single
justice of the supreme court to hear and determine any matter in
vacation, such justice may, in his discretion, award costs to either or
neither party thereto, or divide the same, in any proportion between
the parties ; such costs to be taxed by the clerk, allowed by the jus
tice, and collected by execution, returnable to the next term of said
court in the county.
Sec. 8. If the plaintifff in any case shall file his declaration in
either of the clerk's offices of the supreme court or court of common
pleas, as is by law provided, and shall afterwards withdraw or discon
tinue his suit before the sitting of the court, but after answer filed,
the defendant in such case shall recover his costs.
Sec. 9. Whenever several persons shall be made defendants in an
action of trespass or ejectment, and the same shall be discontinued as
to any one or more of said defendants ; or if upon the trial thereof,
any one or more of them shall be acquitted by verdict, or upon a de
murrer, every defendant so discharged or acquitted, shall have and
recover his costs.
Sec. 10. In all civil actions brought by or against a firm, com
pany, or copartnership, and where there is a joint cause of action, or
joint defense, costs for travel, and attendance of one only of the
parties recovering judgment shall be taxed.
Sec. 11. In all actions on promissory notes in the name of the
assignee or endorsee of the note against the original promisor, no
more costs shall be taxed than would by law be taxable if such action
had been brought in the name of the payee of the note.
Sec. 12. Unless the certificate of a witness, for his attendance and
travel, be filed with the clerk of a court or justice court rendering
judgment, within four days after the rendition of judgment in the
cause in which he shall have attended, or been summoned, no more
fees shall be taxed in favor of the party procuring such witness than
his travel, and one day's attendance.
Sec. 13. The appellee, in any case appealed from the court of
common pleas to the supreme court, brought upon any bond or prom
issory note for money, or upon any bill of exchange against the ac
ceptor thereof, whether interest be payable thereon or not, who shall
recover in the supreme court, shall recover double costs in said court,
and double interest on the debt from the day of the judgment of the
court of common pleas appealed from, to the time of the final trial
in the supreme court : Provided, that if the supreme court on such
final trial shall be satisfied that the appellant had reasonable ground
of defense, and that such appeal was not solely for delay, they shall
allow only single interest from the day of the judgment of the court
of common pleas appealed from, to the time of such final trial, with
single costs.
Sec. 14. If in any action for such cause originally brought in the
supreme court a verdict be recovered by the plaintifff, and a motion
for a new trial be filed therein by the defendant and allowed as of
course, and judgment be afterwards rendered in favor of the plain
tiff upon verdict, by default or on submission, the defendant may, in
the discretion of the court, be adjudged to pay double costs and
double interest on the debt accruing or taxable after the filing of such
written motion.
Sec. 15. All bills of ^costs shall be taxed by the clerks of the
respective courts, and shall be examined and allowed by one of the
justices thereof.
Sec. 1 6. The justice of any court who shall examine and allow
any bill of costs shall strike out and disallow any sum that may be
taxed or demanded for the expense of any witness, or any evidence
whatsoever that shall appear to such justice overcharged, frivolous,
or not material to the issue of the cause ; and no costs shall be
allowed for any written evidence unless the fees be noted thereon, or
certified by the officer who issued or made out the same.
Sec. 17. Costs taxed in the court of common pleas maybe revised,
in case of appeal to the supreme court, in the taxation of costs
there.
Sec. 18. In all appeals from any order, determination, or decree
of any court of probate to the supreme court, the supreme court, on
J k r ' r t '
rendering judgment therein, may award costs for or against the appellants
or appellees, or for neither, or may apportion the same between
and among the parties appellants and appellees, in their discretion,
according to the circumstances of the case, and as to them shall ap
pear equitable and just.
CHAPTER 207.
OF APPEALS IN CIVIL CASES AT COMMON LAW, AND OF NEG
LECT TO PROSECUTE THE SAME.
Section
1. Appeal from a justice court to
court of common pleas in civil
action, how taken.
2. From the court of common pleas
to the supreme court, when to
be taken by defendant.
3. By plaintifff, when.
4. Appeals from court of common
picas to supreme court, how
taken.
5. Costs to be paid down, on appeal
Sectiok
from judgment on bond, prom
issory note, and bill of exchange.
6. Reasons of appeal and copy of
case, when to be filed for an ap
peal.
7. Of special leave to file reasons of
appeal.
8. Appeal, how to be tried.
9 and 10. Of proceedings, in case of
neglect to enter appeal.
Section 1. Any party aggrieved by the judgment of any justice
court rendered in any civil action may appeal therefrom to the next
term of the court of common pleas, to be holden in the same county,
for a final hearing of said action : Provided he shall, within five
days after rendition of such judgment, pay costs and give bond in
such justice court to the other party, in ja sum not exceeding fifty
dollars, with sufficient surety or sureties, to prosecute such appeal
with effect, or in default to pay costs.
Sec. 2. Any party defendant aggrieved by the judgmentof the court
of common pleas in any civil action originally brought in said court,
bringing into question the title to real estate, or any right, easement,
or interest therein, or in which the debt or damages or value of the
property claimed shalf amount to the sum of one hundred dollars or
upwards, may appeal to the supreme court at the term thereof next
to be holden in the same county after the expiration of five days from
31
the rising of the court of common pleas at said term, except that in
the county of Providence such appeal shall be to the supreme court
at the term thereof next to be holden after the expiration of fifteen
days after the rendition of such judgment.
' Sec. 3. Any party plaintifff thus aggrieved by the judgment of
the court of common pleas, in any civil action bringing into question
the title to real estate, or any right, easement, or interest therein, or
in which the debt or damages or value of property claimed shall
amount to the sum of one hundred dollars or upwards, may, in like
manner, appeal from any judgment rendered therein : Provided, that
if upon such appeal he shall not recover in the supreme court the
sum of one hundred dollars or upwards, or property to the value of
one hundred dollars or upwards, exclusive of costs, he shall recover
no costs in such action, unless the title to real estate, or to some right,
easement, or interest therein, be brought in question in such action.
Sec. 4. In case of such appeal, and as the condition thereof, the
appellant shall give bond in the clerk's office of the court of common
pleas appealed from, in the sum of one hundred dollars, within five
days after the rising of said court at the term in which judgment
therein shall have been rendered against him, in any count)' other
than the county of Providence, and in that county within five days
after the rendition of such judgment, to prosecute his appeal with
effect, and in default thereof to pay costs.
Sec. 5. If judgment be rendered upon any bond for money, or
upon any promissory note for money, or upon any bill of exchange
against the acceptor thereof, whether interest be expressed to be pay
able in the same or not, the appellant shall pay down the costs of the
court of common pleas, and give bond to prosecute the appeal so
made.
Sec. 6. The appellant shall, in all cases, file his reasons of appeal
in the clerk's office of the court appealed to, at least ten days before
the sitting of such court; and shall, at the time of entering his ap
peal, file in the same office a certified copy of the whole case.
Skc. 7. If any party appealing to the supreme court or court of
common pleas, shall through mistake, accident, or misfortune, omit to
file his reasons of appeal at the time prescribed as aforesaid, the said
courts respectively, in their discretion, on sufficient cause being shown
therefore, may, at the term of the court appealed to, permit such party
to file his reasons of appeal in court, on such terms as they shall pre
scribe.
Sec. 8. If the appellant in any case of appeal shall enter his ap
peal in the court appealed to, the cause shall be tried and decided in
the same manner as if both parties had appealed, and both parties
shall have the benefit of any new and further evidence.
Sec. 9. If the appellant shall neglect to enter his appeal as by
law required, the adverse party, in case he did not also appeal, may
at any time during the term appealed to, or at the next succeeding
term, enter his complaint and obtain a confirmation of the former
judgment, as of the third day of the said term, with double interest
from the time of the rendition of the judgment appealed from, to said
third day, if damages were therein given, and double costs.
Sec. 10. In case of such neglect, if the court appealed to shall be
satisfied that the appellant had reasonable grounds of appeal, and
that the appeal was not taken solely for delay, single interest on the
damages, and single costs only, shall be required of him.
Section 1. Every person aggrieved by the sentence of any justice
court on any complaint, for any offense which is or shall be within
the jurisdiction of such court to try and determine, may appeal from
such sentence to the court of common pleas then next to be holden
in the same county, after ten days: Provided, such appeal be claimed
within five days after passing such sentence. Such appeal may be
claimed at the jail, from any justice of the supreme court, or from
any trial justice or clerk of a justice court, or from any justice of
the peace authorized to take bail at the jail in certain criminal cases ;
and such recognizance shall be taken by the person authorized thereto,
as is hereinafter provided.
Sec. 2.' Upon every claim for appeal, the appellant shall be required
to give recognizance in such sum as the person authorized to
take such recognizance shall direct, and with surety to the satisfaction
of such person, with condition, that he will file his reasons of appeal,
together with a copy of the whole case, in the court appealed to, on
or before the second day of the next term thereof as aforesaid, that
he will appear before said court and there prosecute his appeal with
effect, and abide or perform the order or sentence of said court in
such case, and that he will in the mean time keep the peace towards
all the people of this state ; which recognizance the person taking the
same shall forthwith certify to the court appealed to.
Sec. 3. Upon the neglect of such appellant to give such recognizance,
he shall forthwith be committed to the jail in the same
county, there to remain until he give such recognizance or be discharged
pursuant to law : Provided, however, that whenever such appellant shall have performed sufficient labor in such jail, so that the
sum earned by him thereby is equal to the amount of the fine and all the
costs in the case in which he is committed, including all costs accruing
at such jail, and he shall have served the full time of imprisonment
for which he may have been sentenced, the jailer shall apply the
amount so earned by him to the settlement of such fine and costs ;
and the said appellant shall then be discharged.
Sec. 4. If such appellant, having given recognizance, shall neglect
to file a copy of the whole case in the court appealed to, on or before
the second day of the next term thereof, he shall be defaulted in the
appellate court on the recognizance, and the appellate court shall
forthwith certify such neglect to the justice court, from whose sentence
the appeal was taken ; and such justice court shall thereupon
deliver to the attorney-general a certified copy of the whole case,
which shall be by him filed and entered in the appellate court; and
the proceedings thereon in the appellate court shall be the same, and
shall be conducted in the same manner, as if the appellant had filed
such copy on or before the second day of such term.
Sec. 0. Such appellant, having given such recognizance, may at
any time before the reasons of appeal are by law required to be filed
pay to the trial justice or to the clerk of the justice court, from whose
sentence the appeal shall have been taken, the fine and costs which
shall have accrued ; and thereupon the said justice court, or clerk
thereof, shall discharge the recognizance taken upon the appeal ; but
if the recognizance shall have been certified to the court appealed to,
the same shall be discharged by such court, or the clerk thereof, upon
the presentation of the certificate of the justice court appealed from
that the fine and costs have been paid.
Sec. 6. Such appeal shall be heard and tried in the appellate court
with a jury, and the judgment or sentence of the court of common
pleas therein shall be final, except in matters of law.
Section 1. If in any cause or proceeding, civil or criminal, pending
before any court other than the supreme court, the constitu, i» m
tionality of any act of the general assembly shall be brought into
question, it shall be the duty of such court to rule such act to be constitutional,
and to go on and try the cause as though such question had
not been raised.
Sec. 2. If judgment be rendered in the cause against the party
raising the constitutional question, the court shall forthwith certify
the cause to the supreme court for their decision of the constitutional
..... r. , .„ . , .
question, it in session ; and if not in session, then to the session
thereof next to be holden in any county of the state by adjournment,
or at a regular term.
Sec. 3. The parties to such cause shall be bound to follow the
same to the supreme court without further notice ; and shall there be
heard by said court, on the constitutional question raised in such
cause.
Sec. 4. The supreme court shall give precedence to such cause
over all other business pending before them, and if practicable shall
have the opinion of all the justices of said court on the question cer
tified to them ; and after deciding such constitutional question, shall
send back such cause, with their decision, to the tribunal where it
originated, and shall appoint a time, and if need be a place, where
such tribunal shall assemble, to proceed in such cause ; and at the ap
pointed time and place, such tribunal shall meet and proceed to retry
such cause or to enter up judgment therein, pursuant to the certified
decision of the supreme court.
Sec. 5. The parties in such cause shall be bound to follow the
same from the supreme court to the tribunal where it originated,
without further notice.
Sec. 6. The court rendering judgment shall require of the party
to a criminal cause or proceeding, raising a constitutional question, a
recognizance, and of such party to a civil cause or proceeding, a bond,
in the sum of one hundred dollars, with sufficient surety, with condition
that he will follow such cause to the supreme court, and thence
to the tribunal where it originated, and appear before such tribunal at
the time and place appointed by the supreme court, and abide or per
form the final judgment or sentence of such tribunal in such cause ;
and upon the refusal or neglect of the party to give such recognizance
or bond, shall proceed as if no such question had been raised.
Sec. 7. If the party raising such constitutional question shall not
appear before the supreme court at the time and place to which the
cause in which it shall be raised shall have been certified to said court,
such cause shall be remanded to the tribunal where it originated, as in
the fourth section of this chapter is provided, and such tribunal shall
then proceed in such cause in the same manner as though such ques
tion had not been raised in such cause.
Sec. 8. All the expenses arising in the procuring of the decision
of any constitutional question as aforesaid shall enter into and make
a part of the costs in the suit in which the question is raised.
Sec. 9. If the party against whom any court shall render judgment in a cause in which a constitutional question shall be raised have
a right of appeal to any other tribunal, such right shall not be affected
by the preceding provisions of this chapter, but may be exercised
within the same time after the entering up of judgment in the cause,
pursuant to the decision of the constitutional question by the supreme
court, and in the same manner, and upon the same terms, as is or may
be provided by law, in similar cases, in which no such question is
raised.
Sec. 10. Any person convicted of an offense in any criminal pro
ceeding, commenced in, or brought by appeal before the court of com
mon pleas, and either party to a civil suit, or suit in form civil, in
cluding suits for flowage caused by mill-dams, commenced in or brought
by appeal before such court, upon which judgment shall be rendered,
may, if there be no appeal from such conviction or judgment to the
supreme court, and if such convict or party be aggrieved by any
opinion, direction, ruling, or judgment of the court of common pleas
on any matter of law raised by the pleadings, or by an agreed state
ment of facts, or apparent upon or brought upon the record by a bill
of exceptions, shall be entitled to have such matter of law heard be
fore, and decided by the supreme court, for the same county in which
such conviction shall be had or judgment rendered.
Sec. 11. Either party aggrieved by any opinion, direction, ruling,
or judgment of a special court of common pleas in any matter of law
raised by the pleadings, or by an agreed statement of facts, or ap
parent upon or brought upon the record by a bill of exceptions, shall
be entitled to have such matter heard before and decided by the su
preme court in the same county : Provided, such right be claimed in
open court, and bond to prosecute be filed, and motion for time to
present to the justice trying the cause a bill of exceptions, if a bill
of exceptions be necessary, made within twenty-four hours after the
rendition of judgment in the action ; and provided such cause be en
tered in the supreme court at any time within ten days thereafter if
the court be then in session ; and if the same be not in session, or
shall not continue in session until such cause may be entered at any
time within said ten days, then at the next term thereof in the same
county.
Sec. 12. In case such right be claimed by a defendant to an action
in such special court, he shall, in addition to the ordinary bond to pros
ecute, within twenty-four hours as aforesaid, give bond to the plaintifff
with sufficient surety or sureties to the satisfaction of such justice, in
such sum as the justice may order, that he will pay all rent or other
monies due or which may become due pending the action, and such
damages and costs as may be awarded against him.
Sec. 13. Every bill of exceptions shall be summarily drawn up
in writing by the person or party aggrieved, or by his counsel, and
shall be presented to the judge who shall have tried the cause, within
five days of the time of conviction in a criminal proceeding, and of
judgment in a civil cause, or cause in form civil, if the court shall so
long continue in session, and if not, during the session of the court,
unless, for cause shown, further time be given, and shall be allowed
and signed by such judge.
Sec. 14. Such judge may, in any civil cause, or cause in form
civil, upon notice and for cause shown, extend the time for presenting
such bill of exceptions for allowance, to any time within five days
after the termination of the term at which judgment shall have been
rendered.
Sec. 15. In every trial in the supreme court of a bill of excep
tions, or petition for new trial, founded upon exceptions or upon any
alleged error in any opinion, direction, or ruling of either the supreme
court or court of common pleas, in the trial of any case or proceed
ing, or upon the ground that the verdict therein was against the evi
dence or the weight thereof, the party excepting to such opinion,
direction, or ruling, or praying for such new trial, may set forth the
matter of such exceptions and allegations of error, and the evidence
upon which such error, direction, or ruling was rendered, or verdict was
rendered, by affidavits, subject to counter affidavits, to the satisfaction
of the supreme court, with the same effect as if such bill of excep
tions, or statement of the ruling, direction, or opinion complained of
had been allowed and signed by the judge trying such case or pro
ceeding, whenever he shall be unable, for any reason, to allow and
sign such bill of exceptions, or statement of the substance of the
ruling, opinion, or direction so complained of, or shall refuse so to
allow the same or any part thereof.
Sec. 16. Every bill of exceptions shall be filed with the clerk below,
during the term at which the cause shall have been tried, or, in
case of special allowance of time, within five days of the time of the
allowance, and signature thereof by the judge.
Sec. 17. The person convicted or party aggrieved in matter of
law by any opinion, decision, or ruling, other than one concerning
the constitutional validity of any act of the general assembly, brought
in question in the causes or judgment as aforesaid, may and shall
enter into recognizance, or give bond, and proceed in and enter the
cause at the next term of the supreme court for the county, if a
criminal proceeding, in the same manner, and subject to like liabilities
as provided in case of criminal appeals from justice courts to the
court of common pleas ; and if a civil cause, or cause in form civil,
in the same manner, in all respects, as provided in case of appeals
from the court of common pleas to the supreme court.
Sec. 18. In all such proceedings and causes, duly entered by the
person convicted or the party aggrieved, in the supreme court, the
court, in a civil cause, or cause in form civil, may affirm the former
judgment with additional debt, penalty, or damages at the rate of six
per cent, per annum, or may reverse the same in whole or part, or
may, in a proceeding or cause, civil or criminal, after deciding all the
questions of law raised therein, remit the same to the court of com
mon pleas for trial or new trial, or may order a new trial to be had
in the supreme court ; and in such cases may enter such judgment,
order, sentence, or decree, and take such order therein, as the court
of common pleas ought to have done, and shall cause such other pro
ceedings to be had in the cause as to law and justice shall appertain.
Sec. 19. In case of neglect duly to enter and file the copy in any
such proceeding or cause in the supreme court, like proceedings shall
be had in all respects and with like effect, as provided in like cases
against persons convicted, and parties who neglect duly to prosecute
appeals, and the supreme court may and shall proceed in like manner to
carry the conviction or judgment into full effect, with additional costs.
Section 1. In all cases in which actions originally commenced in
the supreme court shall be answered, the party against whom a ver
dict has been rendered shall, by filing a written motion with the
clerk of the court in which such verdict is rendered, within fortyeight
hours after the rendition of such verdict, and payment of the
entry fixed by law for the entry of appeals in the supreme court, be
entitled, as of course, to a new trial in such action.
Sec. 2. Whenever it shall be made to appear, to the satisfaction
of the supreme court, by any party or garnishee in a suit which shall
have been tried or decided therein, or which shall have been tried or
decided in the court of common pleas, within one year previous to
such application, that by reason of accident, mistake, or any unfore
seen cause, judgment has been rendered in such suit, on discontinu
ance, nonsuit, default, or report of referees, or that such party or
garnishee had not a full, fair, and impartial trial in such suit, or, in
case a trial has been had in such case, that a new trial therein should
be had, such court shall have power to grant or to refuse to grant
such trial or new trial, upon such terms and conditions upon either
party as they shall prescribe.
Sec. 3. The supreme court shall have like power to grant, or re
fuse to. grant a new trial in any case in which there has been a trial
by jury, for reasons for which new trials have been usually granted
at common law.
Sec. 4. If the application for such trial or new trial of a suit de
cided in the. supreme court shall be made at the same term in which
such suit shall have been tried or decided, the adverse party shall be
holden to answer the same, without further notice thereof.
Sec. 5. If such application shall be made at any other term of
said court in a suit decided therein, or shall be made in a suit de
cided in the court of common pleas, notice thereof shall be given to
the adverse party, in such manner as the court shall, by general rule
or otherwise, direct, to appear at such time as the court shall appoint
to answer the same.
Sec. 6. Whenever a trial or a new trial shall be granted, the same
shall be had before any court in any county, at such term thereof,
and under such restrictions and conditions, as the supreme court may
prescribe.
Sec. 7. If the application for a new trial shall be made by the
plaintifff, no goods or chattels or real estate attached, or bail given
upon the original writ, shall be holden to respond to the judgment in
such case, unless the application for a new trial be made at the term
in which such cause shall have been decided, if in the supreme court ;
but if the same shall have been decided by the court of common pleas,
the plaintifff shall file his petition for a trial, or a new trial, with the
clerk of the supreme court for the same county, and notify the ad
verse party thereof within ten days after the rising of the court at
which the same shall have been decided, or the bail or property afore
said shall be discharged.
Sec. 8. The supreme court shall and may exercise the same pow
ers in granting a trial in all cases decided at a special court of common pleas, or before any justice court, if no trial shall have been had
therein, and may exercise the like powers in granting a trial in all
cases decided by any probate court, wherein the party shall have neglected
to prosecute his appeal according to law ; and shall also have
power in their discretion, on the petition of the accused, to grant
trials or new trials upon indictments or other criminal prosecutions in
which verdict or judgment shall have been rendered against such pe
titioner : Provided, application therefore shall be made within one
year after such cause shall have been tried or decided.
Sec. 9. Whenever it shall be made to appear to the satisfaction of
the court of common pleas, by any party in any suit commenced in
said court in which there is not by law a right of appeal, or in any
suit brought into said court by appeal from a justice court and which
shall have been tried and decided in said court of common pleas
within one year previous to such application, that by reason of any
accident, mistake, or unforeseen cause, judgment has been rendered
in such suit on discontinuance, nonsuit, default, or report of referees,
or that such party had not a full, fair, and impartial trial in such suit,
and the court shall thereupon think it reasonable to grant a trial, or,
in case a trial has been had in such case, to grant a new trial therein,
they shall have power to grant or to refuse to grant the same, upon
such terms and conditions upon either party as the said court shall
prescribe.
Sec. 10. If the application for such trial or new trial shall be
made at the same term in which such suit shall have been tried or
decided, the adverse party shall be holden to answer the same with
out further notice.
Sec. 11. If such application shall be made at any other term of
said court, notice thereof shall be given to the adverse party in such
manner as shall be directed by general rule, or otherwise in such
manner as the court may direct.
Sec. 12. If the application for a new trial shall be made by the
plaintifff, no goods or chattels attached or bail given upon the original
writ, shall be holden to respond to the judgment in such case, unless
the application for a new trial be made at the term of said court in
which such cause shall have been decided.
Sec. 13. If any party shall obtain a trial or new trial in any
cause, by order of the supreme court or court of common pleas, and
shall neglect to enter such action for trial on the first or second day
of the court at which such trial was to be had by such order, or at
the time which such order shall prescribe, or shall not otherwise comply with the terms of such order, the adverse party may enter his
complaint, and the said court shall thereupon affirm the last judgment
rendered in such cause, with interest, if damages or debt were therein
recovered, and additional costs.
Section 1. Executions issued by any court shall issue in the
name of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, and
shall be signed, sealed, bear teste, and run in like manner as original
writs.
Sec. 2. They shall be issued on judgments rendered by such
courts, at the expiration of five days next after the rising of the court
at which judgment shall have been rendered, unless otherwise or
dered.
Sec. 3. The supreme court may, on motion, direct execution to
issue at any time during the term of the court at which judgment
shall be rendered.
Sec. 4. The court of common pleas may, on motion, direct execution to issue at any time during the term of the court at which iudg•
ment shall be rendered, on any judgment rendered therein, in any
case in which there is, by law, no appeal, and in the trial of which
no question of law is raised by statement of facts, upon demurrer, by
exception to the ruling of the court, or otherwise, or in which, there
being a right of appeal, or a question of law being raised, the appel
lant shall not, within the time prescribed by law, have given bond as
required in cases of appeal ; or, in case of a bill of exceptions, the
party excepting shall not have presented the same to the court for
allowance, or filed the same as allowed, within the time prescribed
by law, or appointed by the court.
Sec. 5. The supreme court or court of common pleas may, upon
motion, and for cause shown, stay execution upon any judgment or
decree rendered in such court, until further order.
Sec. 6. No execution shall issue on any judgment rendered by a
justice court, within five days from the day such judgment was ren,
, J J J a
dered.
Sec. 7. Executions, original or alias, may be issued by any court,
at any time within six years from the rendition of the judgment
originally, or from the return day of the last execution.
Sec. 8. Any judge of the supreme court, at any time, on application
made to him by the plaintifff in any original, alias, or pluries
execution, issued from the clerk's office of the supreme court or court
of common pleas in any county, or any justice court, which has been
lost or destroyed previous to the satisfaction thereof, upon proof to
his satisfaction of the loss or destruction of such execution, may au
thorize the clerk of the court or justice court, by whom or from
whose office said execution was issued, to issue another execution in
the place of the one so lost or destroyed. And the justice of any
justice court, upon application made to him by the plaintifff in any
such execution which has been lost or destroyed previous to the satis
faction thereof, upon proof to the satisfaction of said justice that said
execution has been lost or destroyed, may issue or authorize another
execution to be issued by the clerk thereof in place of the one so
lost or destroyed.
Sec. 9. Every execution issued by the supreme court, or by the
court of common pleas, shall, unless otherwise by law provided, be
made returnable to the next succeeding term thereof, and shall be returned
by the officer charged therewith, within five days from the
day appointed by law for the sitting of the court from whence it
issued ; and if such officer shall not return the same within that time,
he shall be liable therefore, as by law prescribed.
Sec. 10. Every execution issued by any justice court shall, unless otherwise provided, be returnable in three months after the date
thereof, and be returned to the justice court which issued it.
Sec. 11. No person shall be entitled to an execution until the fee
of the clerk or trial justice thereon shall have been paid.
Sec. 12. The clerk of any court from which an execution shall
issue shall note on the margin thereof, or in the body thereof, the
\ . ~. , *
time when the judgment recited in the same was rendered ; also,
whether the execution was awarded against the defendant, in any ac
tion brought against him upon any penal statute, trover, detinue, tres
pass, trespass on the case, trespass and ejectment, and trespass quare
clausum fregit, in which the title to the close was not in dispute.
Sec. 13. No execution shall issue against the body of any female,
on any judgment founded on a contract not under seal, where the
debt or damages do not exceed fifty dollars ; but in such case the
execution shall issue against the goods and chattels and real estate of
the female against whom such judgment shall have been rendered.
Sec. 14. An execution, original, alias or pluries, may issue against
the body of a defendant not exempt from arrest in an action when
ever the same shall have been brought upon a penal statute, or in
trover, detinue, trespass, trespass on the case, trespass quare clatuum
fregit, in which the title to the close was not in dispute, or whenever,
the action being for the recovery of a debt or a state or town tax,
the cause thereof accrued before the thirty-first day of March, 1870,
or whenever such defendant shall have been arrested and held to hail
upon an original writ or writ of mesne process therein, or wherever
it shall be made to appear to the court which rendered the judgment
in such action, or to any justice thereof, that such defendant is about
to depart the state without leaving therein sufficient real or personal
estate to satisfy such judgment, or that such defendant has been
guilty of fraud in contracting the debt for the recovery of which
such judgment was rendered, or in the concealment, detention, or
disposition of his property.
Sec. 15. A writ of execution issued by the supreme court or court
of common pleas shall be substantially in the following form : —
The State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc.
To the sheriff's of our several counties or to their
deputies, greeting :
Whereas of by the consideration of our court
holden at within and for our county of on the
Monday of recovered judgment against of for the
sum of debt or damages and costs of suit, as to us ap
pears of record, whereof execution remains to be done : We com
mand you, thereforee, that of the goods and chattels and real estate
of the said within your precinct, you cause to be levied and
paid unto the said the aforesaid sums, being in the whole,
with twenty-five cents more for this writ : and thereof also to satisfy
yourself for your own fees : [and for want of the goods and chattels
and real estate of the said to be found in your precinct, to
satisfy and pay the same as aforesaid, we command you to take the
body of the said and commit unto our county jail in
your precinct, therein to be kept until pay the full sums above
mentioned, with your fees, or that be discharged by the said or
otherwise by order of law.] Hereof fail not, and make true return
of this writ and of your doings thereon, to our next to be
holden at within and for our county of on the
Monday of next. Witness, Hon. chief-justice of our
supreme court at this day of in the year
Clerk.
Sec. 16. Writs of possession shall be substantially in the follow
ing form : —
The State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc. To the sheriffs of our several counties or to their
deputies, greeting :
Whereas by the consideration of our court
holden at within and for our said county of on
the Monday of recovered judgment for the
possession of with the privileges and appurtenances thereto
belonging, against who had unjustly withholden him from
the possession thereof ; and also, by the consideration of the same
court recovered judgment against the said for the sum of
costs of suit, as to us appears of record, whereof execu
tion remains to be done : We command you, thereforee, that without
delay, you cause the said to have possession of and in the
said with the privileges and appurtenances thereunto be
longing. We also command you, that of the goods and chattels and
real estate of the said within your precinct, you cause to
be levied and paid to the said the aforesaid sum of
with twenty-five cents more for this writ ; and thereof
also to satisfy yourself for your own fees ; and for want of the goods
and chattels and real estate of the said to be found in
your precinct, to satisfy and pay the same as aforesaid, we command
you to take the body of the said and commit
to our county jail in your precinct, therein to be kept until
pay the full sum above mentioned, with your fees, or that
be discharged by the said or otherwise by order of law.
Hereof fail not, and make true return of this writ and of your doings
thereon, to our next to be holden at within and
for our county of on the Monday of next.
Witness, Hon. chief justice of our supreme court, this
day of in the year Clerk.
Sec. 17. A writ of execution issued by a justice court shall be
substantially in the following form : —
The Siate of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc. To the sheriff, his deputy, or to either of the town
sergeants or constables in the county of greeting :
Whereas at a justice court holden at on the
day of recovered judgment of said court
against for the sum of debt (or damages), and
costs of suit, taxed at as of record of said court doth ap
pear ; which sums, in the whole, amount to for which ex
ecution remains to be done : We command you, thereforee, that of the
goods and chattels and real estate of the said within your
precinct you levy the said sum of together with
for this execution, as also your lawful fees for serving the same, and
therewith satisfy and pay the said ; [and for want of
sufficient goods and chattels and real estate of the said to
be by you found, to satisfy and pay the same sums as aforesaid, we
command you to take the body of the said into your
custody, and safely secure in our jail in
until satisfy and pay the said the sums aforeBaid
and your fees, or until be by the said there
from discharged, or otherwise by order of law.] Hereof fail not,
and make true return of this writ, in three months from the date
hereof, and of your doings thereon.
Witness, Esq., trial justice, this day of
in the year Clerk.
If such writ be issued by a justice court having no clerk, then the
form of attestation shall be as follows : —
Witness my hand at
this day of in the year
of Trial Justice.
Sec. 18. If the execution issued by any court be one which may
run against the body of the defendant, the words included in brack
ets in the forms prescribed in the fifteenth and seventeenth sections
of this chapter shall be retained, otherwise they shall be stricken
out.
Sec. 19. The court issuing an execution in any case in which no
form shall be prescribed may vary the above forms so as to comply
with the law.
Sec. 20. Whenever final judgment shall be rendered for the plain
tiff in any suit in which the writ was served by attachment of real
estate, or goods and chattels, or stock or shares in any incorporated
company, the execution issued on such judgment at the same term
such judgment was rendered shall be levied on the property so at
tached, as soon as may be ; but if the same shall not be so levied be
fore the return day thereof, the property attached shall be discharged
of such attachment.
Section 1. Every officer to whom a writ of execution or other
judicial writ shall be lawfully issued shall execute the mandates
therein contained as commanded, and shall make returns of his doings
thereon. If he be unable to execute such mandates, he shall set
forth the reason of his failure in his return.
Sec. 2. The body of any deceased person shall not be liable to be
taken for debt or damages on execution, or upon any process whatever
; and if any officer shall, under color of an execution or process,
seize, or take the body of any deceased person for debt, or damages,
he shall be fined not exceeding five hundred dollars, or be imprisoned
not exceeding six months.
Sec. 3. If any officer shall, at the same time, have two or more
executions delivered to him to serve, in which the parties shall be reversed, and shall sue and be sued in the same right and capacity, he
shall set off the debts or damages in the same, and levy and collect
the balance only that shall remain due thereon, with the costs on all
said executions.
Sec. 4. Personal estate, when mortgaged and in the possession of
the mortgagor, and while the same is redeemable either at law or in
equity, may be levied on by execution against the mortgagor, in the
same manner as on his personal estate.
Sec. 5. When levied on, whether by virtue of an attachment or
otherwise, it shall be sold by the officer as in other cases of levies on
personal property on executions.
Sec. 0. The proceeds of the sale shall be applied to the payment
of the amount due on the mortgage, with such deduction for interest
for the anticipated payment, or allowance for damages for such
anticipated payment, as may be ascertained and allowed by the court
to which the execution is returnable, and the balance shall be applied
to the payment of the amount due on the execution.
Sec. 7. In case of such levy, the plaintifff in execution may redeem
the mortgaged property in the same manner as the mortgagor
might have done; and upon such redemption shall have the same
lieu on the property for the amount paid by him, with interest, as the
mortgagee had.
Sec. 8. If the mortgage be not redeemed by the plaintifff, or sold
as before mentioned, before the time of redemption expires, the attachment
shall become void.
Sec. 9. In all cases when execution shall be levied on any goods
or chattels, such goods and chattels shall be kept in the officer's
hands, and be advertised at least ten days before they shall be exposed
and offered for sale, in order that the person who owned such
goods or chattels may, if he thinks fit, pay the money due, together
with the costs which shall have accrued thereon, and thereupon have
his said goods or chattels restored to him again.
Sec. 10. In case such owner shall not redeem them as aforesaid,
the officer shall sell the same at public auction, to the highest bidder;
and if any overplus shall remain after the debt or damages and costs
and charges are paid, the same shall be delivered by the officer to the
owner, or to any person legally qualified on his behalf, to receive the
same.
Sec. 11. The officer charged with the service of the execution, if
he shall levy the same on real estate, shall set up notifications of such
~ ~ J . , . , r . . i ,
levy, m three or more public places in the town where said real estate
lies, for the space of three months after such levy, and before the
same shall be exposed to sale, notifying all persons concerned of the
levy, and intended sale of said estate, that the owner thereof may
have an opportunity to redeem the same ; and he shall also notify
such sale, by causing an advertisement thereof to be published, once a
week, for the space of three weeks next before the time of such sale,
in some newspaper in the county where such estate lies ; and if no
newspaper be printed therein, then in some newspaper printed in
Newport or Providence.
Sec. 12. Whenever execution shall be levied upon real estate
which was not attached on the original writ or writ of mesne process,
the officer shall, in addition to carrying out the requirements of the
next preceding section, leave a copy of the execution with his do
ings thereon with the town clerk of the town in which such real
estate shall lie.
Sec. 1 3. In case of accidents or extraordinary storms or tempests,
the sheriff may from time to time adjourn the sale of the estate levied
on, giving one week's notice thereof by publication in a newspaper in
the manner above provided.
Sec. 14. If no person appear to redeem the said estate, the officer
shall sell the same, or so much thereof as shall be sufficient to satisfy
the judgment obtained, and the cost and charges, at public auction ;
and a deed thereof, by him given, shall vest in the purchaser all the
estate, right, and interest which the debtor had therein at the time
said estate was attached, or, in case there were no attachment, levied
on, as aforesaid ; and the surplus of the money that shall arise from
the sale of said estate, after satisfying the execution and the costs and
charges, shall be deposited with the general treasurer for the owner
thereof, and be liable to be attached for his other debts.
Sec. 15. Such sale shall be made under the execution levied
thereon, although the return day thereof may have passed.
Sec. 16. The following shall be substantially the form of the deed
to be given when real estate is levied upon and sold as aforesaid, that
is to say : —
To all people to whom these presents shall come,
send greeting :
Whereas, an execution against at the suit of
was by me the said on the day of levied
on (here describe the premises), and whereas on the day
of all the estate, right, title, interest, and property of the
said in the premises aforesaid, were by me the said
sold at public auction, for the satisfaction of the said ex
ecution, to who was the highest bidder, for the sum of
which the said hath since well and truly paid
to me the said . Now know ye, that by force and virtue
of the law in such case made and provided, I, the said in
consideration of the sum of money paid unto me as aforesaid, do by
these presents, bargain, sell, assign, and set over unto the said
heirs and assigns forever, all the estate, right, title, inter
est, property, freehold, and inheritance of the said of, in,
and to the said premises and appurtenances at the time of the levy
thereon ; To have and to hold the said premises and appurtenances
to the said heirs and assigns forever. In witness, &c.
Sec. 17. Whenever attachment shall have been made by original
writ or writ of mesne process, the officer shall insert the time thereof,
and vary his deed accordingly.
Sec. 18. Whenever execution shall issue against a defendant
whose stock or shares in any banking association or any body corpo
rate established within this state shall have been attached, the officer
charged therewith shall serve a copy of the same, if a bank, upon the
cashier thereof, if an insurance company, upon the president or secretary
thereof, and if upon any other corporate body, upon the treas
urer thereof, or person executing the duties of treasurer, which shall
be deemed a good and sufficient levy of such execution upon the
stock or shares of the defendant in such company.
Sec. 19. The said stock or shares shall be advertised or sold (or
so much thereof as shall be necessary) in the same manner as other
personal property levied on by execution ; and a deed or deeds
thereof given by the officer aforesaid shall vest in the purchaser all
the defendant's right, title, and interest in such shares so sold as afore
said, and shall be recorded by the recording officer of such company.
Sec. 20. The stock or shares of any body corporate established
without this state, or of any person whatever in any banking association or any incorporated company within this state, shall be liable
to be levied on by execution duly obtained, like other personal prop
erty ; and such execution being directed to the proper officer accord
ing to law, he may levy the same in the manner set forth in the two
sections next preceding, upon any stock or shares of the defendant to
be found within his precinct, and shall proceed to advertise, and
sell, and give deeds thereof, in the manner therein prescribed.
Sec. 21. Whenever final judgment for any sum shall be rendered
bv any court against any banking association or any incorporated
company, execution on such judgment shall be issued against the
goods, chattels, and real estate of such corporation ; and whenever any
such execution shall be, by the officer charged with the service thereof,
returned that he cannot find sufficient property of such corporation
whereon to levy the same, the party in whose favor such judgment
shall have been rendered may sue out of the clerk's office of the
court in which such judgment was rendered a writ of scire facias
against the president and directors, trustees, managers, or other like
officers of such corporation, if any such there be, and if none, then
against so many of the stockholders or members thereof as he may
think fit ; returnable to the next term of such court.
Sec. 22. On the return thereof, unless such president and directors,
trustees, managers, other like officers, stockholders, or mem
bers, shall make it appear that they had not, at the time of the
service of such writ of scire facias, within their possession and
control sufficient property of such corporation to satisfy such judg
ment or any part thereof, such court shall issue execution against
such president, directors, trustees, managers, or other like officers or
stockholders, or members, for the amount of such judgment, with in
terest and costs, as for their own private debt ; but if it shall appear
that such officers, stockholders, or members had property as aforesaid
to satisfy part of such judgment only, then an execution as aforesaid
shall issue for such amount only and costs.
Sec. 23. In all levies on execution upon real estate, goods, ar.d
chattels, stock, or shares, or other subject of levy on execution whatsoever, he who shall first procure the attachment or levy to be made
shall be entitled to have his debt or damages satisfied, before any
other demand for which the same may be subsequently attached or
levied on by execution at the suit of any other person, and all others
in order of their attachments or levies.
Sec. 24. As divers levies of the same real or personal estate may
"happen to be made on the same day, the officer who shall make any
11 32 'i
such levy, whether of real or personal estate, shall be obliged in his
return to set forth the time of the day when such levy was made, to
the end that the priority of the attaching and levying creditors may
be known.
Sec. 25. Every sheriff, deputy sheriff, and town sergeant, charged
with the service of any execution issued by the supreme court or
court of common pleas, for any debt or damages, shall levy, collect,
receive, and pay over, interest on the same debt or damages, from the
date so entered on the margin, up to the time of its discharge by him.
Sec. 26. Whenever judgment shall be rendered against any per
son holding the office of sheriff, the execution issued thereon, directed
in the ordinary form, may be delivered to the sheriff or a deputy
sheriff of some other county, who is authorized, within the county of
the defendant sheriff, to levy on the goods and chattels and real
estate of the defendant, as the proper sheriff of the county might do
in other cases, and to proceed and sell the same according to law.
Sec. 27. For want of goods and chattels, and real estate, such
sheriff or deputy shall take the body of the defendant sheriff and him
commit to the jail in the county of the committing officer, whenever
the writ of execution shall command him so to do.
CHAPTER 213.
OF PROCEEDINGS BY AND AGAINST BAIL.
Section
1. Power of bail to discharge himself
pending original action, how to
be exercised.
2. Power of, to discharge himself at
any time, how.
3. Principal surrendered to court
pending original action ; how to
be committed, and how long to
remain in jail.
4. How committed after final judg
ment in original action, and how
long to remain in jail.
5. Principal committed for want of
Section
bail, or by bail, when entitled
to be discharged from jail.
6. Death of principal when discharge
of bail.
7. Scire facias against bail, and judg
ment in.
8. Scire facias against bail in a jus
tice court, when may be sued
out of court of common pleas,
and of proceedings in.
9. Limitation of writ of scire fa
cias.
10. Remedy of bail against principal.
Section 1. Any person who shall become bail in any civil action,
either by giving bail bond to the officer serving the writ therein, or
by endorsing such writ, may, during the pendency of the action, dis
charge himself as bail, by bringing his principal into the court in
which the action shall be pending, and there delivering him into the
custody of such court.
Sec. 2. Such person may also, at any time before final judgment
against him, as bail, on scire facias, discharge himself as bail in
either of the two following modes :
First. By committing his principal to the jail in the county in
which he became bail, or in which the original writ was returnable ;
paying or tendering to the creditor or his attorney the costs, if any,
which may have accrued on a writ of scire facias against him as bailj
and leaving with the keeper of such jail a certified copy of the orig
inal writ and the officer's return thereon, and giving to the plaintifff,
if in this state, or his agent, or his attorney of record, notice in writ
ing, of the time and place of such commitment, within six days after
making the same ; or,
Second. By bringing his principal into the court where the writ
of scire facias against him as bail shall be pending, before final judgment shall be rendered thereon ; paying the costs on such writ of
scire facias to the clerk, and delivering his principal into the custody
of such court.
Sec. 3. If the principal shall be surrendered by his bail to the
court in which the original action is pending, he shall be by such
F , ° .
court committed to jail, and there remain to be taken in execution, or
to be discharged in the same manner as though committed for want of
bail in the first instance ; and he shall remain in jail in like manner
if committed by his bail before final judgment be rendered in such
action.
Sec, 4. If the principal shall be committed by the bail to jail after
such final judgment, or if, being surrendered by his bail to the court
before which scire facias is pending against the bail, he shall be committed
by such court to jail, he shall there remain for the space of
thirty days, unless sooner discharged by order of law.
Sec. 5. If the principal be not taken in execution within thirty
days after final judgment against him when committed for want of
bail, or when committed by his bail, or by the court to which his bail
shall have surrendered him before such final judgment, or, within
thirty days after he shall have been committed by his bail, or by the
court to which his bail shall have surrendered him, pending scire
facias against his bail, such principal shall be discharged from jail
upon payment of prison fees.
Sec. 6. The death of the principal before the return day of the
execution against him shall discharge the bail.
Sec. 7. Whenever the principal shall avoid, so that his goods and
chattels or real estate cannot be found to satisfy the execution, nor
his body be found to be taken thereby, the plaintifff in the original
writ may sue out his writ of scire facias against the bail, from the
same court wherein final judgment was rendered against the principal,
returnable to the term of court which shall commence next after
twenty days after such writ shall be served ; and in case no legal
cause be shown to the contrary, judgment shall be given against the
bail for the debt or damages and costs recovered against the principal,
with interest and costs, and execution shall be awarded accordingly.
Sec. 8. The plaintifff in any suit wherein judgment shall be rendered
at any justice court, and the amount of debt, costs, and interest
due upon such judgment shall exceed one hundred.dollars, shall be
entitled to his writ of scire facias against the bail from the court of
common pleas in the county in which such judgment shall be ren
dered ; upon which writ the proceedings shall be the same in all re
spects as if the judgment had been rendered in said court of common
pleas.
Sec. 9. No writ of scire facias shall be served upon the bail
unless it be within two years next after the entering up of final
judgment against the principal : Provided, that if by reason of the
absence of the bail from the state, service of the writ. of scire facias
could not have been made within the time before mentioned, the said
writ may be served at any time within two years next after the
return of the bail into the state.
Sec. 10. The bail may have remedy by action on the case against
nis principal, for all damages sustained by his becoming bail.
CHAPTER 214.
OF IMPRISONMENT OF DEBTORS, AND OF JAIL LIMITS AND
JAIL BONDS.
Section
1. Liberty of the jail yard, in what
cases, and on what conditions
granted.
2. Bond in such cases, how given and
the condition thereof.
3. Where prisoner may go upon giv
ing bond.
4. How long to have liberty of the
yard, if committed on execu
tion, unless an assignment is
executed.
5. Liability and duty of the keeper
of the jail under such assign
ment.
6. What, in certain cases, deemed
an escape.
7. Right of surety in such bond to
Section
surrender his principal ; effect
of, on principal and surety.
8. Judgment on bond, for what to be
rendered.
9. Limitation of action on bond.
10. Note of cause of action to be made
on execution, and also by officer
in his commitment.
11. Effect of neglect to make such
note, on the liability of the
keeper.
12. Assignments during imprison
ment, when void.
Bonds, &c., for ease of prisoner,
void.
Limits of jail yards.
13.
14.
Section 1. Whenever any person shall be imprisoned for want
of bail in any civil action ; or upon surrender or commitment by
bail in any such action ; or for non-payment of any military fine, or
state or town tax ; or on execution in any civil action (except on
executions awarded in actions on penal statutes or on bonds given in
pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, or in any actions of
trover, detinue, or trespass, other than trespass quare clausum /regit,
in which title to the close was in dispute between the parties, and
trespass and ejectment, or in an action prosecuted by bail against
his principal), the sheriff or keeper of the jail may grant to such
person a chamber or lodging in any of the houses or apartments be
longing to such jail, and liberty of the yard within the limits thereof,
upon reasonable payment to be made for chamber room, and upon
bond being given by such person as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 2. Such person shall first leave with such sheriff or keeper
of the jail a bond to the creditor, with two or more sufficient sure
ties, being inhabitants of this state, bounden jointly and severally at
least in double the sum for which he is imprisoned, with condition in
form following : " That if the above now a prisoner in
the jail in within the county of at the suit of
" shall from henceforth continue to be a true prisoner in
the custody, guard, and safe keeping of keeper of the said
jail, and in the custody, guard, and safe keeping of his
deputy, officers, and servants, or some one of them, within* the limits
of the said jail, and keeping the said jailer advised of the place of his
usual residence and abode therein, until he shall be lawfully dis
charged, without committing any manner of escape or escapes, dur
ing the term of his restraint, then this obligation shall be void, or
else shall remain in full force and virtue."
Sec. 3. Any person confined in any jail who may give bond as
aforesaid, may go into any building or place within the exterior
limits of the yard, complying with such bond and conforming to law.
Sec. 4. No person committed on execution shall have the liberty
of the prison yard for more than thirty days after his said commitment,
unless he shall within the said thirty days execute an assignment of all his estate of every kind not exempted from attachment
hy law, and wherever the same may be, to such keeper of said jail,
and his successor in said office, and his heirs and assigns, in trust for
the equal benefit of all his creditors in proportion to their demands.
Sec. 5. The keeper receiving an assignment as aforesaid shall not
be held responsible to any person for any property of any assignor,
except such as he has actually received into his possession : Provided,
he shall assign all the interest he shall obtain thereby to the
committing creditor, if a resident of this state, upon his request, or
to such person, being a resident thereof, as such creditor shall name,
to be held by such creditor or person so named, his heirs, executors,
administrators, and assigns, for the purposes and uses set forth in said
deed, and a record of such assignment and of said transfers shall be
made by said keeper.
Sec. 6. If any person so committed shall neglect to render himself
to the keeper of the jail, in said jail, within said thirty days, or
make an assignment as hereinbefore provided, he shall be deemed to
have committed an escape under his bond for the liberty of the prison
yard.
Sec. 7. Every person who shall become surety in any bond given
by any debtor for the liberty of the jail yard as aforesaid shall have
a right at any time to deliver up the principal in such bond to the
sheriff of the county in which such debtor may have been committed,
or to the keeper of the jail therein, and within such jail ; whereupon
he shall be detained by such sheriff or keeper in close jail, in
the same manner as though he had not been liberated on bond, until
he shall give other bond according to the provisions of this chapter,
or be otherwise discharged according to law ; and none of the sure
ties, after the principal has been delivered up as aforesaid, shall be
liable for any escape thereafter committed by the principal.
Sec. 8. If the creditor shall obtain judgment on such bond for
the breach of the condition thereof, he shall recover his just debt,
with interest from the time judgment was rendered in the original
suit, and twelve per cent, interest on such debt for his damages ; and
the court shall render judgment thereon accordingly.
Sec. 9. No action shall be maintained for the breach of any bond
given for the liberty of the jail yard as aforesaid, unless the same be
brought within one year after the time such breach was committed.
Sec. 10. Every trial justice and the clerk of any court, issuing an
execution against any person, shall note on the margin thereof the
cause of action on which the same issued ; to the end that the keeper
of the jail may ascertain whether such person, if committed, be entitled
to the liberty of the jail yard ; and every officer committing
any person to jail on such execution shall note in his commitment
the cause of action on which the execution is founded, according to
the note or memorandum of the trial justice or clerk.
Sec. 11. If no such memorandum be made by such justice or
clerk on any execution, or if the officer shall not note the same in his
commitment, the keeper of the jail shall be held harmless if he per
mit the person committed to have the liberty of the jail yard, or dis
charge him, on his producing a certificate of having taken the oath
prescribed by law for poor debtors.
Sec. 12. All assignments, transfers, and conveyances of property
made by a debtor during his imprisonment for the payment or
security of any debt, except that of the committing creditor, shall be
utterly void, unless made for the benefit of all Iiis creditors in pro
portion to their respective demands.
Sec. 13. If any sheriff, deputy sheriff, town sergeant, constable, or
keeper of any jail shall take or receive from any prisoner in his cus
tody any bond, obligation, covenant, promise, or assurance whatever,
to indemnify and save harmless the person taking the same, for the
enlargement or ease of such prisoner, in any other form or manner
than is prescribed by law for taking bail on mesne process in a
civil action, or is prescribed in this chapter, every such bond, obliga
tion, covenant, promise, or assurance whatever, shall be utterly
void.
Sec. 14. The limits of each county shall be the limits of the
jail yard thereof.
Relief of debtors imprisoned.
Section 1. Any person who shall be imprisoned for debt, whether
on original writ, mesne process, or execution, or for non-payment of
military fine, or town or state taxes, or on execution awarded against
him as defendant in any action of trespass and ejectment, or trespass
quare clausum fregit, in which title to the close was in dispute between the parties, may complain to any justice of the supreme court,
or to any justice of the peace in the county where such person shall
be committed, that he has no estate, real or personal, wherewith to
support himself in jail, or to pay jail charges, and may request to be
admitted to take the poor debtor's oath.
Sec. 2. Such justice shall forthwith issue a citation to the creditor,
if within this state, or if such creditor does not live within this state,
then to his agent or attorney of record within this state, or if he has
no such agent or attorney, then to such creditor without the state, to
appear at such time and place as the said justice shall appoint, to
show cause, if any he have, why the person complaining as aforesaid
should not be admitted to take such oath.
Sec. 3. The citation shall be served on the creditor, his agent, or
attorney as aforesaid, seven days at least before the time appointed as
aforesaid, by reading the same to him, or by leaving an attested copy
at his last and usual place of abode, by the sheriff, his deputy, or
either of the town sergeants or constables in the county in which
such creditor, his agent, or attorney shall reside. If such cred
itor does not live or have any agent or attorney within this state,
such service shall be made upon the creditor by any disinterested
person.
Sec. 4. Such creditor, his agent, or attorney as aforesaid shall, if
personally served with such citation, upon reasonable demand therefore
pay to the officer serving the same the sum of three dollars for the
past and future board of such prisoner, in full to the return day of
such citation, which sum the officer shall immediately pay over to the
keeper of the jail to which such prisoner is committed.
Sec. 5. The officer or such disinterested person serving any creditor,
his agent, or attorney, with a citation by personal service, shall
set forth in his return thereon, that he has demanded as aforesaid of
the person so served, the sum of money for the past and future board
of such prisoner priovided by law, and that the person so served has
paid, or neglected and refused to pay the same, as the case may be :
and unless it appear by the return of the officer or such disinterested
person upon the citation, that the money has been so demanded and
refused, the prisoner shall not be entitled to his discharge. If such
service be made by a disinterested person, he shall verify his return
under oath before some person authorized to administer oaths.
Sec. 6. If service of the citation is made by leaving a copy
thereof, the person served therewith shall pay the sum as aforesaid
to the keeper of such jail, within twenty-four hours after such ser
vice.
Sec. 7. The creditor, his agent, or attorney as aforesaid shall, in
addition, pay to the keeper of such jail the sum of three dollars per
week for the future board of such prisoner, counting the first week
for such last mentioned payment from and including the day on which
such citation is made returnable ; which payment in advance shall
continue thereafter to be made by such creditor, during the time such
prisoner shall be detained at his suit.
Sec. 8. In case of any default on the part of such creditor, his
aSent, or attorney to make such payment, the keeper of such jail
shall discharge such prisoner from jail, stating in his formal discharge
on the jail book the reason thereof: Provided, that no prisoner shall
be discharged by reason of such default who has been refused the
poor debtor's oath, and who shall, at the time of such default, have
the liberty of the jail yard.
Sec. 9. The amount paid by the creditor for the board of the per
son ™p"sonecl at his suit 8^a" °e added to and form a part of the
costs of commitment and detention, and as such costs shall be paid
by the prisoner in the then existing or any future proceeding which
may be lawfully instituted against him for the recovery of the debt
and costs of such suit.
Sec. 10. Any justice of the supreme court, or any trial justice in
^e county where the prisoner is committed, may at the time and
place appointed examine the return of such citation, and if it shall
appear to have been duly served, may administer the oath hereinafter
prescribed to the party imprisoned as aforesaid, if, after fully
examining the prisoner under oath, and hearing the parties, the said
justice shall think it proper so to do : Provided, such applicant shall
then and there first make and execute a deed of assignment of all his
estate of every kind, and wherever the same may be, except what is
exempted from attachment by law, to such keeper and his successor
in his such office, and his heirs and assigns in trust, for the benefit of
all his creditors in proportion to their respective demands.
Sec. 11. The oath to be administered in such a case shall be as
follows : I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I have not any estate,
real or personal, in possession, remainder, or reversion over ten dol
lars (or except what is exempt from attachment by law), and that I
have not, since the commencement of this suit against me, or at any
other time, directly or indirectly, sold, leased, or otherwise conveyed
or disposed of to, or intrusted any person or persons whomsoever
with, all or any part of the estate, real or personal, whereof I have
been the lawful owner or possessor, with any intent or design to
secure the same, or to receive, or to expect any profit or advantage
therefrom, for myself, or for any of my children or family, or any
other person ; or have caused or suffered to be done anything else
whatsoever, whereby any of my creditors may be defrauded ; so help
me God : (or, this affirmation I make and give upon peril of the pen
alty of perjury.)
Sec. 12. Such oath being administered and taken by said prisoner,
the justice shall deliver to him a certificate thereof, under his hand
, J , . . » „ . ,
and seal, in the following form : —
To keeper of the jail at in the county of
I, the subscriber, authorized by the statute in such case
made and provided, do certify, that a poor prisoner con
fined npon mesne process (or otherwise as the case may be), in the
prison at aforesaid, has caused the party at
whose suit he was so confined, to be notified according to law, of his
the said desire of being admitted to take the poor debtor's
oath ; that in my opinion the said has not any estate,
either real or personal, except what is exempt from attachment by
law (or over ten dollars, as the case may be ) ; and that he has not
conveyed or concealed his estate with design to secure the same to
his own use, or to defraud his creditors ; and that I have, after due
caution to the said administered to him the oath (or affir
mation), prescribed by law to be administered to poor debtors.
Witness my hand and seal this day of a. d.
( Justice of the supreme court, or
-< trial justice of the justice court
( of [insert the name of the town].
Sec. 13. Whenever any prisoner shall present such a certificate as
is prescribed in the next preceding section to the keeper of the
jail in which he is imprisoned, such keeper shall forthwith dis
charge him from his commitment at the suit of the creditor named
therein.
Sec. 14. No person who has been admitted to take the oath aforesaid
shall be retained in jail for the prison fees, or for the fees of the
justice before whom he may have taken such oath.
Sec. 15. No keeper of any jail receiving an assignment under the
tenth section of this chapter shall be held responsible to any person
for any property of any assignor, except such as he has actually received into his possession : Provided, he shall assign all the interest
he shall obtain thereby to the committing creditor, if a resident of
this state, on his request, or to such person being a resident thereof as
such creditor shall name ; to be held by such creditor or person, his
heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, for the purposes and
trusts set forth in said deed.
Sec. 16. No person who shall be committed on execution awarded
against him as plaintifff in replevin, or as defendant in any action on
a penal statute, or in any action of trover or detinue, or for any
malicious injury to the person, health, or reputation of the plaintifff
in such suit, or for seduction, or for any trespass excepting only such
as are particularly named in the first section hereof, shall be deemed
to be within the meaning of the provision of that section, or entitled
to be admitted to take the oath as aforesaid.
Sec. 17. If a debtor take out a citation to his committing creditor,
and has the same served, and subsequently withdraws the same,
or if upon trial he shall not be admitted to take the oath above
prescribed, he shall not be entitled to another citation to the same cred
itor unless on proof of some change of circumstances after the taking
out of the first citation ; which change of circumstances shall be an
nexed to or recited in the second citation and form a part therof.
Relief before the court.
Sec. 1 8. The court before which any action is pending for the recovery of any debt or demand, for which the defendant, if committed
to jail thereon, would be entitled to be admitted to take the oath
aforesaid, may administer the said oath to the defendant as hereinafter
provided.
Sec. 19. The defendant, in such case, may apply to any justice
court, in the county in which he resides, for a citation to the creditor
to appear at the court in which such action is pending, to show cause
why the defendant should not be admitted to take said oath.
Sec. 20. Such citation shall be served by any sheriff, deputy sher
iff, town sergeant, or constable, at least four days before the time
therein appointed for taking said oath, by reading the same to the
plaintifff, or by leaving an attested copy thereof at his last and usual
place of abode in this state j and such citation shall be returned to
the court in which such action is pending. If the plaintifff does not
reside in this state, service of such citation may be made in like man
ner upon the agent or attorney of record of the plaintifff, in this
state.
Sec. 21. If it shall appear to the court in which the said action is
pending that notice has been given as before provided, such court
Bhall examine the defendant on his oath concerning his estate and
effects and the disposal thereof, and may also receive any other evi
dence offered by the defendant or the plaintifff ; and upon such exam
ination the court may, in its discretion, administer to the defendant
the said oath.
Sec. 22. If said oath be administered, the execution which may
be issued against the defendant in such action shall run against the
goods and chattels, or real estate of the defendant, and not against
his body.
Relief of debtors liable to imprisonment on execution.
Sec. 23. Every defendant in any execution, who would, if com
mitted to jail thereon, and every person against whom final judgment
has been rendered in any civil action, who would, if committed to
jail on execution to be issued thereon, be entitled to be admitted to
take the oath aforesaid, may apply in the manner hereinbefore men
tioned for a citation to his creditor, to show cause why he should not
be admitted to take said oath.
Sec. 24. Such citation shall be served in the same manner as is
provided in the twentieth section of this chapter.
Sec. 25. Upon the return of such citation, the magistrate author
ized to administer said oath by section ten of this chapter, in the
county in which such defendant is liable to be imprisoned, may ad
minister such oath to the defendant, if upon examination of the de
fendant on oath, and of such other evidence as either party may
produce, he may think proper.
Sec. 26. If the defendant be admitted to take such oath, he shall
thereafter be exempt from imprisonment on said execution or any
future execution that may be issued on such judgment; and execution
on such judgment shall issue only against the goods and chattels and
real estate of the said defendant.
Sec. 27. The justice administering the oath aforesaid, pursuant to
the provisions of the twenty-fifth section of this chapter, shall give a
certificate to that effect under his hand and seal to the said defend
ant. In all cases, the justice who commences the examination of the
prisoner under the provisions of this chapter shall alone have the
power to sign and seal the certificate of his discharge.
Sec. 28. Whenever the oath aforesaid shall be administered to
any defendant under the provisions of the ten sections next preced
ing, he shall then and there make an assignment of all his estate, real
and personal, not exempted from attachment by law, to some responsible
inhabitant of this state, his heirs and assigns, to be approved by
the magistrate administering said oath, in trust for the benefit of all
his creditors in proportion to their demands, and a copy of which as
signment shall be filed by the assignee in the office of the clerk of the
court issuing such execution.
Sec.^9. The person to whom the debt appears by the process to
belong at the time complaint is made shall be deemed the creditor
within the meaning of the provisions of this chapter. Neither the
commitment of the prisoner nor his discharge shall be a satisfaction
of the debt for which he was committed. If committed on execution,
the plaintifff may take out another execution, which shall not
however run against the body of the defendant. If suit be brought
on the judgment, execution in such suit shall not run against the
body of the defendant, nor shall the defendant be held to bail on the
writ in such case. If the defendant be committed on mesne process,
when he receives a certificate as aforesaid, if that fact be shown by
plea to the court before whom the action is pending, then execution
shall not issue against the body of the defendant ; but in all such
cases, execution shall issue against the goods and chattels and real
estate of such defendant.
Sec. 30. Any justice of the supreme court, or any trial justice or
justice of the peace in the same county, who shall be present at the
time and place to which any citation in behalf of any poor prisoner
issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be duly returned,
may, in the absence of another magistrate, adjourn the hearing
thereon to any other time or place, as he may think proper, with the
same effect as if another justice were present.
Sec. 31. Any one of the Narragansett tribe of Indians committed
to jail for debt, upon mesne process or execution, shall be considered
as a poor prisoner, within the true intent and meaning of this chapter,
notwithstanding such prisoner may have estate, real or personal, in
common with the said tribe ; and shall be entitled to and may receive
all the benefits and advantages hereof.
Sec. 32. Every person imprisoned, or liable to be imprisoned, in
any suit in favor of the state, entitled to the oath prescribed in the
eleventh section of this chapter, may apply for and have a citation
to the state, to show cause why he should not be admitted to take
such oath.
Sec. 33. Such citation shall be issued to and served upon the attorney-general, in the same manner and with the same effect as is provided
in the case of creditors other than the state, except that no
board need be demanded or paid.
Section 1. Any person who shall be imprisoned upon original
writ, mesne process, execution, or surrender, or commitment by bail
in any action on penal statutes, or in any action of trover, detinue,
trespass, trespass and ejectment, or trespass quare clausum fregit, in
which the title to the close was not in dispute between the parties,
or in any action of the case for words spoken, and who shall com
plain, on oath, to the keeper of the jail in which he is imprisoned, that
he has no estate, real or personal, wherewith to support himself in
jail or pay jail charges, shall be entitled to a citation as hereinafter
provided.
Sue. 2. If such keeper shall believe such complaint to be true,
he shall forthwith issue a citation under his hand and seal to the
plaintifff at whose suit the complainant is imprisoned, if the plaintifff
resides in this state, or if he does not reside within this state, then to
his agent or attorney of record, or if he have no agent or attorney of
record, then to the person who endorsed the plaintifff's writ as surety.
Sec. 3. Such citation shall set forth that such prisoner has made
complaint as aforesaid, and that such prisoner will be discharged un
less the sum of three dollars per week be within ten days from the
time of the service of such citation paid to the said keeper in advance,
for the board of such prisoner, reckoning such board from the expira
tion of said ten days after such service, which payment in advance
shall continue to be made by such creditor during the time such pris
oner shall be detained at his suit.
Sec. 4. Such keeper, upon issuing the citation, shall, at the ex
pense of the state, cause service thereof to be made by the sheriff, his
deputy, or any town sergeant or constable, on the person to whom
such citation shall be directed as aforesaid, by reading the same to
him in his presence and hearing, or by leaving a true and attested
copjr thereof at his last and usual place of abode.
Sec. 5. In case of default made in payment of such prisoner's
board, as required in the third section of this chapter, the keeper shall
discharge such prisoner from jail, stating in his formal discharge on
the jail book the reason therefore.
Sec. 6. The amount thus paid by the creditor, for the board of the
prisoner so imprisoned at his suit, shall be added to and form a part
of the costs of commitment and detention, and as such costs shall be
paid by the prisoner in the then existing or any future proceedings
which may be lawfully instituted against him for the recovery of the
debt and costs of such suit.
Section 1. Every person imprisoned in any common jail, or
otherwise restrained of his liberty, by any officer or other person, except in cases mentioned in the following sections, may prosecute a
writ of habeas corpus, according to the provisions of this chapter, to
obtain relief from such imprisonment or restraint, if it shall prove to
be unlawful.
Sec. 2. The following persons confined in any jail shall not be
entitled as of right to demand and prosecute said writ : —
First. Persons convicted of treason against this state, murder, rape,
robbery, arson, burglary, or as accessories before the fact in either
of those crimes, or committed on suspicion of being guilty of either
of those crimes, or as accessories thereto before the fact, when the cause
is plainly and specifically expressed in the warrant of commitment.
Second. Persons convicted, or in execution upon legal process,
civil or criminal.
Third. Persons committed on mesne process in any civil action on
which they were liable to be arrested and imprisoned, unless when
excessive and unreasonable bail is required.
Sec. 3. Application for such a writ shall be made to the supreme
court' ^ m actual session in any county, and if not, to any justice of
said court, by complaint in writing, signed by the party for whose re
lief it is intended, or by some person in his behalf, setting forth, —
First. The person by whom, and the place where the party is im
prisoned or restrained ; naming the prisoner and the person detain
ing him, if their names are known, and describing them if they are
not known.
Second. The cause or pretense of such imprisonment or restraint,
according to the knowledge and belief of the person applying.
Third. If the imprisonment or restraint is by virtue of any war
rant or other process, a copy thereof shall be annexed, or it shall be
made to appear that a copy thereof has been demanded and refused,
or that for some sufficient reason a demand of such copy could not be
made; and
Fourth. The facts set forth in the complaint shall be verified by
the oath of the person making the application, or by that of some
other credible witness ; which oath may be administered by the court
or justice to whom the application is made, or by any justice of the
peace, or notary public.
Sec. 4. The court or justice to whom such complaint shall be
made shall, without delay, award and issue a writ of habeas corpus ;
if against any sheriff or deputy sheriff of this state, or against the
keeper of any jail or prison in this state, or against any marshal or
deputy marshal of the United States, it shall be substantially of the
following form : —
The Slate of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc. To greeting:
We command you, that the body of of in
our prison, in your custody (or, by you imprisoned or restrained of
his liberty, as the case may be), as it is said, together with the day
and cause of his taking and detaining, by whatsoever name the said
shall be called or charged, you have before our supreme
court, holden at within and for the county of
(or some justice thereof, as the case may be), immediately after the
receipt of this writ, to do and receive what our said court (or justice
thereof, as the case may be) shall then and there consider concerning
him in this behalf ; and have there this writ. Witness,
Esq., at this day of in the year
Clerk.
And if not against such officer, it shall be substantially in the fol
lowing form : —
The State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc. To the sheriff's of our several counties and their depu
ties greeting :
We command you, that the body of of by
of imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, as
it is said, you take and have before our supreme court, holden at
within and for the county of (or some justice
thereof, as the case may be), immediately after the receipt of this
writ, to do and receive whatever said court (or some justice thereof,
as the case may be) shall then consider concerning him in this behalf;
and summon the said then and there to appear before our
said court (or some justice thereof, as the case may be), to show the
cause of the taking and detaining of the said and have
you there this writ with your doings thereon. Witness at
this day of in the year
Clerk.
Sec. 5. When the writ is issued by the supreme court in session,
it shall be signed by the clerk and tested like other writs in this state ;
when issued by a justice, it shall be signed by' him.
Sec. 6. If the court to which the writ is returnable shall be ad
journed before its return, the return shall be made before any one of
the justices of said court. If issued by a single justice, and the
court shall be in session before its return, he may and shall adjourn
the case into court, to be there heard and determined in like manner
as if it had been returned into the court.
Sec. 7. Any person to whom the writ is directed shall receive it,
and upon payment or tender of charges, if any be demandable for
the execution of it, he shall make due return thereof.
Sec. 8. If the writ be directed to any sheriff, deputy sheriff,
keeper of any jail, marshal, or deputy marshal, as herein provided,
such officer shall state in his return thereon : —
First. Whether he has or has not the party in his custody or
power, or under restraint.
Second. If he has the party in his custody or power, or under re
straint, he shall set forth at large the authority, and the true and
whole cause of such imprisonment or restraint, with a copy of the
writ, warrant, or other process, if any, upon which the party is de
tained ; and
Third. If he has had the party in his custody or power, or under
restraint, and has transferred such custody or restraint to another, he
shall state particularly to whom, at what time, for what cause, and
by what authority such transfer was made. If the writ be directed
to no such officer, the person summoned shall state the same particulars
in writing to the court or justice before whom the writ is returnable.
Sec. 9. The return or statement shall be signed by the person
making it, and it shall also be sworn to by him, unless he be a sworn
public officer, and shall make the return in his official capacity.
Sec. 10. The person who makes the return or statement shall at
the same time bring the body of the party, if in his custody or power,
or under his restraint, according to the command of the writ, unless
prevented by the sickness or infirmity of the party.
Sec. 11. Whenever from the sickness or infirmity of the party, he
cannot, without danger, be brought to the place appointed for the re
turn of the writ, that fact shall be stated in the return ; and if it be
proved to the satisfaction of the court or justice, the said court or
either justice thereof may proceed to the jail or other place where
the party is confined, and there make the examination ; or may ad
journ the same to another time, or may make such other order in the
case as law and justice shall require.
Sec. 12. When the writ of habeas corpus is returned, the court or
justice shall, without delay, proceed to examine the causes of the iinprisonment or restraint ; but the examination may be adjourned from
time to time as circumstances may require.
Sec. 13. Whenever it appears from the return of the writ or
otherwise, that the party is detained on any process under which any
' other person has an interest in continuing his imprisonment or re
straint, the party shall not be discharged until sufficient notice shall
have been given to such other person or his attorney, if within the
state, or within thirty miles of the place of examination, to appear
and object to such discharge if he thinks fit ; which notice shall be
given by the party imprisoned, in the manner prescribed by the
court or justice ; or in default thereof he shall be remanded to
the custody of the person against whom the writ of habeas corput
issued.
Sec. 14. Wheneverlt appears from the return of the writ or other
wise, that the party is imprisoned on any criminal accusation, he shall
not be discharged until sufficient notice shall have been given to the
attorney-general, or to the complainant in the matter, that he may
appear and object to the discharge, if he thinks fit ; which notice
shall be given by the party imprisoned, in the manner prescribed by
the court or justice ; or, in default thereof, he shall be remanded
to the custody of the person against whom the writ of habeas corput
issued.
Sec. 15. The party imprisoned or restrained may deny any of the
facts set forth in the return or statement, and may allege any other
facts that may be material in the case ; and the court or justice shall
proceed in a summary way to examine the causes of imprisonment or
restraint, and to hear the evidence that may be produced by any per
son interested and authorized to appear, both in support of such im
prisonment or restraint and against it, and thereupon to dispose of
the party as law and justice shall require.
Sec. 16. If no legal cause can be shown for the imprisonment or
restraint, the court or justice shall discharge the party therefrom.
Sec. 17. If the party is detained for any cause or offense for
which he is bailable of right, he shall be admitted to bail if sufficient
bail be offered ; and if not, he shall be remanded, with an order of
the court or justice, expressing the sum in which he shall be held to
bail, and the court at which he shall be required to appear ; and any
justice of the peace authorized thereto may, at any time before the
sitting of said court, bail the party pursuant to such order.
Sec. 18. If the party is committed on mesne process in any civil
action, for want of bail, and if it shall appear that the sum for which
bail is required is excessive and unreasonable, the court or justice
shall decide what bail is reasonable, and shall order, that on giving
such bail the party shall be discharged.
Sec. 19. If the party is lawfully imprisoned or restrained and is
not entitled to be enlarged on giving bail, he shall be remanded to
the person from whose custody he was taken, or to such other person
or officer as by law is authorized to detain him.
Sec. 20. Until judgment be given, the court or justice may re
mand the party, or may bail him to appear from day to day, or may
commit him to the sheriff of the county, or place him under such
other care and custody as the circumstances of the case may require.
Sec. 21. Every officer who shall refuse or neglect, for six hours, to
deliver a true copy of the warrant or process, by which he detains
any prisoner, to any person who shall demand such copy, and tender
the fees therefore, shall forfeit and pay to such prisoner the sum of one
hundred dollars.
Sue. 22. If any person to whom such writ of habeas corpus shall
be directed shall refuse to receive the same, or shall neglect to obey
and execute it according to the provisions of this chapter, and no
sufficient excuse shall be shown for such refusal or neglect, the court
or justice before whom the writ is returnable shall proceed forthwith,
by process of attachment as for a contempt, to compel obedience to
the writ, and to punish the person guilty of the contempt.
Sec. 23. If such attachment shall be issued against a sheriff or
his deputy, it may be directed to any town sergeant, or to any other
person, to be designated therein, who shall have full power to execute
the same ; and if the sheriff or deputy should be committed upon
such process, he maybe committed to the jail of any other county
than his own.
Sec. 24. Upon such refusal or neglect of the person to whom the
writ of habeas corpus is directed, the court or justice may also issue
a precept to any officer or other person designated therein, commanding
him to bring forthwith before such court or justice the person
for whose benefit the writ of habeas corpus was issued ; and the
prisoner shall be thereupon discharged, bailed, or remanded, in like
manner as if he had been brought in upon the writ of habeas
corpus.
Sec. 25. Every person guilty of such refusal or neglect to receive
and execute a writ of habeas corpus shall moreover forfeit and pay
to the party aggrieved thereby, a sum not exceeding one thousand
dollars.
Sec. 26. If any one who has in custody or under his power any
person entitled to any writ of habeas corpus, whether any writ has
issued or not, shall, with intent to elude the service of such writ, or
to avoid the effect thereof, transfer such prisoner to the custody, or
place him under the power or control of any other person, or conceal
him, or change the place of his confinement, the person so offending
shall forfeit and pay to the party aggrieved thereby a sum not ex
ceeding one thousand dollars.
Sec. 27. The recovery of any penalty imposed by this chapter
shall not bar any action at the common law for false imprisonment,
or for false return to the writ of habeas corpus, or for any other
injury or damage sustained by the aggrieved party.
Sec. 28. No person who has been discharged upon a writ of
habeas corpus shall be again imprisoned or restrained for the same
cause, unless he shall be indicted therefore, or convicted thereof, or
committed for want of bail by some court of record having jurisdic
tion of the cause ; or unless after a discharge for defect of proof, or
for some material defect in the commitment, in a criminal case, he
shall be again arrested on sufficient proof, and committed by legal
process for the same offense.
Sec. 29. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to
restrain the power of the supreme court, or any one of the justices
thereof, to issue a writ of habeas corpus at their discretion ; and
thereupon to bail any person, for whatever cause he may be committed
or restrained, or to discharge him, as law and justice shall
require.
Sec. 30. Whenever any person is committed to jail on any criminal
accusation, for want of bail, any justice of the supreme court, or
any justice of the peace of the same county, specially appointed by
said supreme court, or by either justice thereof, may admit him to
bail in like manner as might have been done by the court or magis33
trate who committed him ; and the said justices respectively shall have
power to issue a writ of habeas corpus, and to cause such prisoner to
be brought before them, when it shall be necessary for the purpose
expressed in this section.
Sec. 31. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to
restraul thQ power of any court to issue a writ of habeas corpus,
when necessary to bring before them any prisoner for trial, in any
criminal case lawfully pending in the same court ; or to bring in any
prisoner to be examined as a witness in any suit or proceeding, civil
or criminal, pending in such court, when they shall think the personal
attendance and examination of the witness necessary for the attain
ment of justice.
CHAPTER 218.
OF DOWER, THE ACTION OF DOWrER, AND OF JOINTURE.
Section
1 . Widow, of what dowable.
2. Dower, how to be assigned in en
tire inheritances and woodlands.
3. How, where several parcels of
land.
4 and 5. Who may assign dower.
6. Widow's right to mansion until
assignment.
7. Widow, when entitled to writ of
dower, and damages for deten
tion of dower.
8. Notice of demand of, how served.
9. Judgment for, what shall contain,
and of appeal from.
10. Effect of judgment, if no appeal
taken.
11. Of commissioners to set off dower.
12. Proceedings by commissioners.
13 and 14. Of confirmation of report
of commissioners, and of execu
tion for damages and costs.
15. Death of tenant in action not to
abate action.
Sectiow
16. Action, where may be brought, if
lands, &c., situate in two or
more counties.
17, 18, and 19. Assignment of dower
by court of probate, and pro
ceedings in.
20. No damages for detention given by
court of probate, but appeal
allowed, and proceedings on,
&c.
21. Of proceedings when any infant
is interested in lands, &c., of
which widow is dowable.
22. Dower forfeited by waste, and
duty of tenant in to repair.
23. Jointure, how settled, to bar dower.
24. Estate settled, to revert, if no bar,
25.
26.
when.
Dower demandable, if widow
evicted from jointure.
Bequest of crops by widow, and of
fences erected by her on dower
lands.
Section 1. The widow of any person dying intestate, or other
wise, shall be endowed of one full and equal third part of all the
lands, tenements, and hereditaments, whereof her husband, or any
other to his use, was seized of an estate of inheritance, at any time
during the intermarriage, to which she shall not have relinquished
her right of dower by deed, except in the cases provided for in the
twenty-third section of this chapter.
Sec. 2. Of inheritances that are entire, where no division can be
made by metes and bounds, so that a woman can be endowed of the
thing itself, and of woodlands, she shall be endowed in a special and
certain manner, as of a third part of the rents, issues, growth, or
profits thereof, to be computed and ascertained in manner by this
chapter directed.
Sec. 3. Where dower is legally demandable in more than One lot
or parcel of land belonging to the same person, such assignment need
not be of a part of each lot or parcel, but may be together in one lot,
as the interest and convenience of the widow and the heir or person
having the next immediate estate of freehold shall require.
Sec. 4. The heir or person having the next immediate estate of
freehold in all or any of the lands, tenements, or hereditaments which
belonged to the deceased during the intermarriage, whereof the widow
is dowable, may, in writing and under his hand, assign and set off to
such widow her dower, or just third part of and in all such lands,
tenements, and hereditaments, according to the provisions of this
chapter, at any time after the decease of the husband.
Sec. 5. The tenant in possession, though having but a term for
years, first giving notice to the owner or owners of the next estate of
freehold or inheritance, and inviting them to join with him, if they
will, in assigning and setting off dower, may, upon demand of the
widow upon him and them, assign and set off dower as aforesaid ;
and the same, if fairly and honestly done, shall bind his landlord or
co-tenants of the freehold and all others.
Sec. 6. Until such dower be assigned or until she elect to receive
her jointure in lieu of dower, any widow may remain and continue in
the mansion-house, and the messuage thereto belonging, without being
chargeable to pay the heir any rent for the same : Provided she
bring her writ of dower within twelve months after the probate of
the will, or the granting of letters of administration on her husband's
estate.
Sec. 7. If after one month's demand, made by the widow, of the
persons empowered to set off dower, the same shall not be set off to
her in all the lands, tenements, and hereditaments in which they are
empowered to set off the same, or the dower assigned and set off
shall be less in value than the widow is entitled to, or shall be
assigned and set off in a manner inconsistent with the provisions and
true intent of this chapter, such widow may sue for and recover her
dower and damages for the detention of the same by writ of dower,
to be brought either against the tenant in possession, or the tenant
or tenants of the estate of freehold subsisting at the time of the de
mand.
Sec. 8. The leaving of the demand with the tenant or person in
possession of the premises out of which dower is demanded, or, if no
person be in possession, the posting up of the same in any conspicuous
place upon the premises, shall be sufficient service of the demand
upon all persons not within the state at the time of such demand.
Sec. 9. Whenever judgment for dower shall be rendered by any
court of common pleas in favor of a plaintifff in an action of dower,
the said judgment shall set forth the manner in which the plaintifff
shall be endowed ; and either party aggrieved by such judgment may
appeal therefrom to the next term of the supreme court in the same
county.
Sec. 10. If no such appeal be prayed in open court within two
days after such judgment, the same shall be final, and shall annul the
dower before that time set off and assigned to the plaintifff in the
case, if any had been set off and assigned.
Sec. 11. Whenever final judgment for dower shall be rendered in
any action of dower, in favor of the plaintifff, the court rendering the
same shall appoint three disinterested commissioners, who shall be
under oath, to be administered by said court, or by any justice of the
peace or notary public, equally and impartially to set forth by metes
and bounds, or to ascertain in the special manner pointed out in such
judgment, the dower of the plaintifff, and also the damages sustained
by the plaintifff by detention thereof after demand therefore.
Sec. 12. Such commissioners shall appoint time and place to meet
the parties in the said action, and give them notice thereof; and at
such time and place, notwithstanding the absence of either or both of
said parties, and unless good cause is shown, proceed to discharge
their duties, and make report of the same under their hands with a
plat of the premises and of the dower set off, if set off by metes and
bounds, as soon as may be, to the court appointing them.
Sec. 13. No sufficient cause to the contrary being shown, such
court shall confirm such report, and enter up judgment according to
the same, and issue a writ of execution for such damages, and to put
the plaintifff in possession of her dower or perception of rents and
profits, as the case may require.
Sec. 14. Such execution shall not be issued until after the plain
tiff produces to the court, or clerk, if the court be adjourned, a cer
tificate that the judgment of such court, confirming such report, has
been duly recorded in the office of the town clerk of the town in
which the premises lie ; the expense of which shall make part of the
costs in the action of dower.
Sec. 15. No action of dower shall abate by the death of the de
fendant named therein, where the defendant is tenant of the free
hold, if the property passes by devise or descent from him ; but such
death being suggested, the heir or devisee shall be summoned to ap
pear at the same or at the next term, in the discretion of the court
in which the action is pending, and take upon him the defense of the
suit, and the suit shall proceed against him in the same manner as if
he had been the original defendant.
Sec. 16. Whenever the lands, tenements, or hereditaments, in
which dower is claimed, are situate in two or more counties in this
state, the suit for dower, whether at law or in equity, may be brought
in either county where any of the lands, tenements, or hereditaments
are situate.
Sec. 17. Any court of probate in this state which shall have
granted letters of administration, or letters testamentary on the estate
of any deceased person, shall have power, upon the application of the
widow of the deceased, to cause the dower of such widow to be as
signed and set off to her in all or any of the lands, tenements, or
hereditaments lying within the state, which belonged to the deceased
during his intermarriage, whereof such widow is dowable. Notice
of such application shall be given to all parties interested, except the
applicant, in the manner prescribed by law for notices by courts of
probate : Provided, however, that all the heirs at law or devisees hav
ing the next immediate estate of freehold, and all parties interested
in all or any of said lands, tenements, or hereditaments, may join in
such application, in which case, no notice thereof need be given.
Sec. 18. Whenever such an application shall be made to such
court of probate, such court, upon hearing the parties thereto, shall,
in the first instance, decree in what manner the dower ought to be
assigned in the premises described in the application, whether by
metes and bounds, or in some special and certain manner as set forth
in the second section of this chapter ; and any person aggrieved by
such decree may appeal therefrom to the next term of the supreme
court to be holden in the same county ; but if no appeal be made
within the time prescribed by law, or if the parties in writing within
that time waive their right to appeal, then such decree shall be final.
Sec. 19. Upon the rendering of a final decree on such application,
prescribing the manner in which the dower shall be assigned, the
court rendering the same shall appoint three disinterested men, who
shall have and exercise the same duties and powers, and in the same
manner, and under the same restrictions as though they were ap
pointed to set off dower in. an action of dower according to the pro
visions of this chapter ; and their report being made to such court,
like proceedings shall be had thereon, and with like effect, as in ac
tions of dower.
Sec. 20. No damages for detention of dower shall be allowed on
such application, but an appeal may be had from the decree of a
court of probate affirming any report to said court, made by the men
appointed to set off dower upon such application, and like proceed
ings shall be had thereon, as is provided in sections eleven, twelve,
thirteen, and fourteen of this chapter.
Sec. 21. In case any infant is interested in any lands, tenements,
or hereditaments which belonged to any deceased person, whereof
his widow is dowable, the application to the court of probate to
cause such widow's dower therein to be assigned and set off to her,
and the waiver of the right of appeal, and all other necessary acts,
may be made, signed, and done in behalf of such infant, by his guar
dian, duly appointed, whose acts in the premises shall be conclusive
on such infant : Provided, that when such widow is herself the guar
dian of such infant, such court of probate shall, and in all other cases
where, in their discretion, they may deem it advisable, such court
may, upon receiving such application, appoint a guardian ad litem for
such infant, whose acts alone in the premises, in all subsequent pro
ceedings, shall be conclusive on such infant.
Sec. 22. No woman who shall be endowed of any lands, tenements, or hereditaments as aforesaid shall commit or suffer any strip
or waste thereon, upon penalty of forfeiting the whole of that part
of the estate upon which such strip or waste shall be made, and the
damages assessed for waste, to him who has the immediate estate
of freehold or inheritance, remainder or reversion, by an action of
waste to be brought therefore ; and all tenants in dower shall main
tain the houses and tenements, with the fences and appurtenances
whereof they may be endowed, in good repair during the term, and
shall leave them so at the expiration thereof.
Sec. 23. If any estate, real or personal, be conveyed by deed, or
the same be devised or bequeathed for the jointure of the wife in lieu
of her dower, to take effect in her own possession immediately on the
death of her husband, and to continue during her life, or in fee, de
terminable by such acts only as would forfeit her dower at the com
mon law, such conveyance shall bar her dower of the residue of the
lands, tenements, and hereditaments which her said husband at any
time possessed : but if the said conveyance was before marriage and
during the infancy of the woman, or after marriage, in either case the
widow may, at her election, waive such jointure, and demand her
dower : Provided, the same be done in writing within twelve months
after the probate of the will, if there be one, and if not, then within
twelve months after the granting of letters of administration on her
deceased husband's estate.
' Sec. 24. Whenever any conveyance or devise intended to be in
lieu of dower shall, through any defect, fail to be a legal bar thereto,
and the widow, availing herself of such defect, shall demand her
dower, the estate so conveyed with intention to bar her dower shall
thereupon cease and determine.
Sec. 25. If any widow be lawfully expelled or evicted from her
jointure, or any part thereof, without any fraud or covin, by lawful
entry or action, she shall be endowed of so much of the residue of
her husband's lands, tenements, and hereditaments whereof she was
dowable, as the same lands, tenements, or. hereditaments, wherefrom
she was so evicted and expelled, shall amount and extend to.
Sec. 26. Widows may bequeath the crops as well of their dower
as of other lands and tenements ; and if any widow shall erect any
fence on or around her dower land, her executors or administrators
may enter thereon and remove the same, doing as little damage as
may be to the freehold, at any time within six months after the death
of such widow.
Section 1. In actions of ejectment or other actions concerning
any estate holden or claimed in coparcenary, common, or joint tenancy, where the possession of such estate claimed is the object of
the suit, the same may be commenced by all or any two or more of
the coparceners, tenants in common, or joint tenants, or the same may
be brought by each one for his particular share of such estate ; and
the same rules shall prevail in actions of trespass for mesne profits.
Sec. 2. All joint tenants, coparceners, and tenants in common,
who now are or hereafter may be actually seized or possessed of any
estate of inheritance in any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, in
their own right, or in the right of their wives, may be compelled to
make partition between them of such lands, tenements, and heredita
ments, by writ of partition or bill in equity.
Sec. 3. All joint tenants, coparceners, and tenants in common,
who now are or hereafter may be actually seized or possessed of any
estate for life or years in any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, in
their own right, or in the right of their wives, may be compelled to
make the partition between them of such lands, tenements, and hereditaments,
to continue until the estate of some of the parties to the
same shall determine, and no longer, by writ of partition.
Sec. 4. All joint tenants, coparceners, and tenants in common,
who now are or hereafter may be actually seized or possessed of any
estate for life or years, in any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, in
their own right, or in the right of their wives, with others who have
estates of inheritance in possession in the same lands, tenements,
and hereditaments, may compel or be compelled to make partition of
such lands, tenements, and hereditaments, to continue until the estate
of some of the parties shall determine, and no longer, by writ of
partition.
Sec. 5. If the tenant in reversion or remainder in fee join with
the tenant for life or years in compelling partition of any such lands,
tenements, or hereditaments, against the other co-tenants, the partition shall be of the whole estate, and binding on the heirs and assigns
of all parties ; and no such action shall abate by the death of the
tenrft for life or years, or the expiration of the term for years ; but
the surviving plaintifff may prosecute the said action to final judg
ment and execution.
Sec. 6. Partition of real estate holden in joint tenancy or in common,
and situate in two or more counties in this state, may be sued
for by action at law or by bill in equity, in either county in which
any of the real estate is situate ; and such action or bill shall be conducted in the same manner, in all respects, as if all the real estate
therein named was situate in the same county.
Sec. 7. In suits at law, or in equity, for partition of real estate,
in which it may be alleged or may appear that any party or person
interested therein, not a party plaintifff, may not be a resident of this
state, or where it is alleged or may appear that any person interested
has left this state, and it may not be known where he is, or whether
alive or dead, and if dead, whether leaving children or not, or that
some person unknown to the plaintifff may be interested therein, the
court before whom the suit is pending majr order notice to be given
to any such party or person, by ordering a copy of their order to be
published in some newspaper printed in this state for such length of
time as they may deem proper ; and may also, in their discretion,
order letters, post paid and directed to such party or person, to be
deposited in the post-office ; and, where notice is given as ordered by
the court, they may proceed and render judgment in such suit, in the
same manner and with the same effect as if such party or person had
received actual or personal notice, or had appeared and answered to
the suit.
Sec. 8. If a person named defendant in a writ or bill for partition,
being an inhabitant of this state, shall be temporarily absent
therefrom, so that although it may be known where he is, the writ or
subpoena cannot be personally served upon him, legal service thereof
may be made by leaving a copy thereof with the tenant in possession
of the estate whereof partition is demanded, if any there be.
Sec. 9. If such defendant does not appear to answer such suit,
the cause shall be continued, or delayed until his return : Provided,
the same happen on or before the second day of the term next suc
ceeding that at which, or first after which, said proceeding shall have
been commenced ; at which term, if such defendant does not appear
to answer the suit, the court shall appoint some discreet and disin
terested person as agent of such defendant, whose duty it shall be to
defend such suit ; and, in case judgment shall be rendered for parti
tion, to attend to the partition to be made, and therein take care of
the interest of the person for whom he shall have been appointed
agent as aforesaid.
Sec. 10. In any action of partition, if any person who ought to be
a party to such action shall be omitted in the writ, the writ or process in such action shall not be thereby abated ; but in case the same
is pleaded, a summons shall issue to the person thus omitted, which
shall be served in manner prescribed by law, at least twenty days
before trial ; who may come in and defend in the same manner as
though he had been originally made a party to such action ; and if
the person thus summoned shall appear, or shall neglect to appear,
his name may be inserted in the process by the court ; and judgment
shall be rendered in such action in the same manner as if such person
had been originally a party in the writ.
Sec. 11. If, in any such action, the defendant shall be an infant,
non comPos mentis, or otherwise incapacitated to take care of his
right and estate, it shall be the duty of the court before which '"such
action shall be pending to appoint some discreet and disinterested
person as guardian to defend such infant, non compos mentis, or oth
erwise incapacitated person against such suit ; and in case of judgment
for partition, to attend to the partition to be made, and therein take
charge of the interest of the person for whom he shall be appointed
guardian.
Sec. 12. No action of partition shall be abated by the decease of
either of the parties, plaintifffs or defendants, in such action. In case
o£ tlie llecease of either of the plaintifffs or defendants in such action,
the court shall cause the heirs at law or devisees of such deceased
party to be notified of the pendency of such suit, in the same manner
as if they had been parties in the original writ in such action, and
may, after such notice shall have been given, render judgment in such
suit in the same manner as might have been done had such heirs or
devisees been original parties in such action.
Sec. 13. If such heirs or devisees shall voluntarily appear in court
without such notice, the court may proceed without further delay to
try, render judgment, and proceed thereon, in such action.
Sec. 14. In actions of partition against several defendants, each
of the defendants may answer severally; or any two or more may
answer jointly ; and in their answers set forth the right or interest
which they and each of them have in the estate for the partition of
which the action is commenced.
Sec. 15. In suits for partition, at law or in equity, the court may
order the share of any plaintifff or of any defendant, or of any two
or more of the parties plaintifff and defendant, to be set off to him
or them, dividing the remainder, or leaving it undivided, in their dis
cretion.
Sec. 16. In suits in equity for partition, the supreme court may,
in their discretion, upon motion of any party to such suits, order the
whole premises sought to be divided, or any particular lot, portion, or
tract thereof, or the interest of the plaintifff or plaintifffs, or of the defendant
or defendants in the whole premises, or in any particular lot,
portion, or tract thereof, to be sold at public auction, under the direc
tion of the court, by the commissioners appointed to divide the same.
Sec. 1 7. No person interested in the estate and not a party to the
suit shall be bound by such sale ; but the court may, upon motion,
proceed to make all persons interested in such estate parties thereto,
though non-resident, absent, or unknown, in the manner hereinbefore
provided ; in which case, if the whole of their shares of the estate be
ordered to be sold, such decree shall forever thereafter, in favor of the
purchaser of such estate or shares, and of those claiming under or by
virtue of him, be binding upon such non-resident, absent, or unknown
person, though not appearing to such suit.
Sec. 18. In case of such sale, the proceeds of sale shall be divided,
under the direction of the court, between the parties entitled
thereto, in lieu of their interest in the estate ordered or decreed to
be sold ; and the portion of the proceeds of sale to which any party
or person unknown, or absent from the state, and not appearing to
claim the same, may be entitled, may be invested for such person by
the commissioners, under the direction of the court, and in such name
as the court may direct, after deducting from such portion the rea
sonable share of the costs and expenses of partition of such party or
persons, to be allowed by the court to those entitled thereto. In all
cases such investment and the further disposition of the same, and the
deposit and disposition to be made of the evidence thereof, shall be
subject only to the order and control of the court.
Sec. 19. Partition, either at law by metes and bounds, or in equity
by an auction sale and division of the proceeds, may be made of any
J sr * J J
lands, tenements, or hereditaments between the person or persons
who hold the fee of any share or shares thereof, and the person or
persons who hold, or are, or may be entitled to, any share or shares
thereof, for life, or in reversion or remainder ; and whether such remainder
be vested or contingent, and whether it be to persons in
being and ascertained, or to persons not in being or to be ascertained
thereafter, or subject to open, to let in those afterwards to come into
being, or having other interests whatsoever vested or contingent
therein : Provided, that all persons in being at the time of the com
mencement of the suit for partition, interested in the estate, be made
parties to the proceedings, and their title or interest fully shown upon
the record by the pleadings ; and provided, also, that before final
judgment or decree for partition or sale in any such case, the court
shall appoint some discreet person to represent the interest of per
sons, if any, not then in being, whose reasonable charges, as allowed
by the court, shall be taxed in the costs, and be a charge upon the
share or shares of the estate in which such parties, not in being, shall
or may be interested.
Sec. 20. In the event of partition, by sale and division of the
proceeds in any such case, such sale shall vest in the purchaser an
absolute estate, in fee-simple, in the lands, tenements, or heredita
ments so sold ; and the share or shares of the proceeds, representing
the share or shares of the estate, subject to any such reversion or re
mainder, after deducting and paying therefrom their proportional
parts of the costs and expenses of partition, as determined by the
court, shall be invested under the order of the court for the benefit
of the person interested, or who may become interested in the same,
in the same manner as is provided in case of unknown parties in the
next preceding section.
Sec. 21. Nothing in the last two sections shall be construed to au
thorize the partitioning, by sale and division of the proceeds, of any
lands, tenements, or hereditaments, in which persons not in being are
to be or may be interested, under and by virtue of the provisions of
any last will and testament of a date prior to March seventh, eighteen
hundred and sixty-six ; lands to which water rights, water power, or
mill privileges are appurtenant or attached, only excepted.
Sec. 22. In actions of partition, as well as in suits in equity for
the same, the court before which the same may be pending may ad
judge and determine, as to them shall appear equitable and just, rela
tive to the apportionment of costs among the parties, plaintifff and
defendant, by dividing the same equally, or subjecting either party to
the payment of the whole or any part thereof.
Sec. 23. In suits for partition, either at law or equity, the costs of
partition, in such proportion as the court trying the same shall ad
judge to be paid by any party or parties to said suit, shall be a lien
upon the interest of any party or parties in the several shares to him
or them assigned ; and, in addition to the mode of recovery now used,
may be recovered by sale of said several shares upon execution to be
issued in due form therefore, in favor of the party or parties who may,
by payment of said costs, be entitled to recover the same.
Sec. 24. In actions at law for partition, either party may appeal
from the judgment of the court of common pleas that partition shall
be made ; but if no such appeal shall be prayed in open court within
two days next after such judgment, the same shall be final ; and such
court thereupon, on the motion of the plaintifff in such writ of parti
tion, shall appoint and commission, at their discretion, one or more
discreet, impartial, and disinterested persons, to make partition pur
suant to such judgment, who shall be sworn to the faithful discharge
of their trust.
Sec. 25. The persons so appointed, first giving reasonable notice
to the respective parties, shall make partition between them, accord
ing to their several rights, as ascertained by the judgment of the
court ordering such partition.
Sec. 26. In case non-resident, absent, or unknown parties or per
sons be interested in such partition, and whether the commission to
make partition issue at law or in equity, the court issuing the same
shall order such notice to be given to such parties or persons inter
ested, by the commissioners appointed to make partition, as such
court may judge proper ; and the same, when given, shall, for all pur
poses, be as effectual as personal notice.
Sec. 27. In actions at law for partition, the commissioners ap
pointed to make the same shall report their proceedings, with a plat
of the division by them made, to the court by whom they shall have
been appointed ; and if no sufficient cause shall be shown for reject
ing the said report, judgment shall be rendered thereon in conform
ity thereto ; and such report, plat, and judgment shall be recorded in
the office of the town clerk of the town or towns in which such estate
may be ; the expense of which record shall be made a part of the
costs in such action.
Sec. 28. If an appeal from any judgment of the court of common
pleas for making partition shall be prayed as aforesaid, and on hear
ing of the case before the supreme court, judgment shall therein be
rendered for partition, said supreme court, in like manner, shall ap
point and commission, at their discretion, one or more discreet, im
partial, and disinterested persons, to make partition pursuant to the
judgment of said court, who shall cause partition to be made in like
manner, and under the same regulations as are above prescribed in
case the said judgment for partition had been rendered in the court
of common pleas ; and whenever any judgment of any court of com
mon pleas for partition shall be confirmed by the supreme court, on
the complaint of any party not appealing therefrom, similar proceed
ings shall be had in said supreme court.
Sec. 29. In suits in equity for partition, the commissioners ap
pointed to make the same shall report their proceedings, with a plat
of the division by them made, to the court before which such suit
shall be pending ; and if no sufficient cause shall be shown for re
jecting the report, a decree shall be entered by the court confirming
the same ; and such plat and decree shall be recorded in the office for
recording deeds in the town or towns in which the estate mentioned
in such decree shall be, the expense of which record shall be made a
part of the costs in the cause.
Sec. 30. The recording of the said plat and decree as aforesaid
shall vest the legal title to the property therein described in the per
sons to or among whom the same shall be divided or allotted ; and no
conveyance shall be required to be executed for the purpose of vest
ing such legal title in such person.
Section 1. If any person who shall be seized of any real estate
for the term of his own life, or for the life or lives of any other per
son or persons, or as a tenant for years, shall commit or suffer any
waste on such estate, he shall forfeit his estate in the place so wasted,
and double the amount of the waste so done or suffered, to be recov
ered in an action of waste by the person entitled to the next estate in
remainder or reversion, in the place so wasted.
Sec. 2. If any joint tenant, tenant in common, or coparcener shall
commit any waste on any estate by him holden in joint tenancy, ten
ancy in common, or coparcenary, without the consent of the other
joint tenants, tenants in common, or coparceners, he shall forfeit
double the amount of the waste so done, to be recovered by the other
joint tenants, tenants in common, or coparceners, to their own use.
Sec. 3. In such case any one or more of the other joint tenants,
tenants in common, or coparceners may commence an action for the
same in the name of all the joint tenants, tenants in common, or co
parceners.
Sec. 4. If any person named as plaintifff without his consent shall
neglect to appear, after being duly notified in such manner as the
court shall direct, his name shall be stricken from the writ and plead
ings, and the others shall have a right to prosecute the same to final
judgment and execution, in their own names and for their own use.
Sec. 5. The supreme court in any county, and each of the justices
thereof in vacation, on the application of the plaintifff, in an action
of ejectment, trespass and ejectment, partition, or waste, are hereby
empowered, under the provisions following, to issue a writ of estrepement,
directed to the sheriff or to his deputies, in the county in
which the estate in question may be, requiring him to stay all the
waste on the estate that shall be described in such writ of estrepement.
Sec. 6. The sheriff or his deputy, charged with the service of
such writ, shall have power to stay all waste, as shall be directed in
such writ, and to take such aid as shall be necessary for that pur
pose.
Sec. 7. Upon the application of any party for a writ of estrepement,
said court or justice, before issuing the same, shall cause the
party whose interests may be affected thereby to be notified of the
pendency of such application, in such manner and mode as said court
or justice may deem proper, to the end that the party so to be affected
by, as well as the party applying for said writ, may be heard in the
premises. Upon such hearing, the said court or justice may, in their
discretion, issue or refuse to issue said writ, in the same manner as
courts of equity grant or refuse to grant injunctions in like cases.
Sec. 8. The said court or justice may, on said hearing, and before
the issuing of said writ, require of the party applying for the same
bond with sufficient surety, and in such sum as said court or justice
may prescribe, to make good to the party whose interest may be
affected by said writ all loss and damage which he may suffer by
reason of the issuing of said writ ; if said court or justice, in their
discretion, judge that the circumstances of the case or the rights of
the parties require such bond to be given.
Sec. 9. If such writ of estrepement shall be issued by the court,
it shall be returnable at such time as the court shall direct ; and if
such writ shall be issued by a justice of said court, it shall be return
able to the next term of said court within and for the county in.
which the estate lies, which is described therein.
Suction 1. Tenants of land or tenements at will or by sufferance
shall quit upon notice in writing from the lessor or owner, at the day
named therein.
Sec. 2. Tenants by parol, of house, tenement, or messuage, or of
farm and farming land from year to year, shall quit upon notice in
writing from the lessor or owner, given at least three months prior to
the expiration of the occupation year.
Sec. 3. Tenants by parol of houses, tenements, messuages, farm
or farming lands, for any term less than a year, shall quit upon notice
in writing from the lessor or owner given at least half the period of
the term, not exceeding in any case three months prior to the expira
tion of the same, at any return thereof.
Sec. 4. To terminate leases at will or by sufferance, or by parol,
like notice shall be given by the tenant, if he would be quit of the
same, as is prescribed to be given by the lessor or owner ; and such
notice shall have the same effect, for all purposes, as if given by the
lessor or owner to the tenant.
Sec. 5. The time agreed upon in a definite letting shall be the
time of the termination thereof for all purposes ; and if there be no
time of termination agreed upon, it shall be deemed a letting from
year to year, and the like notice to quit shall be required both from
landlord and tenant, if either would be quit of the letting, and such
notice from either shall have the like effect.
Sec. 6. If in any case of letting of lands or tenements, whether
by writing or parol, the stipulated rent, or any part of the same, be
due and in arrear for the period of fifteen days after demand made of
the same from the tenaut or his assigns, by the lessor or person en
titled to the reversion, the landlord or reversioner may reenter and
repossess himself of the lands and tenements let, or recover posses
sion of the same from the tenant or his assignee discharged from the
lease.
Sec. 7. The lessor or owner of lands or tenements shall be entitled to recover the same upon termination of the letting of the same,
in manner aforesaid, either by ordinary process of ejectment, or in
the manner prescribed for recovery of possession of tenements or
estates from those who hold over the term of letting, in chapter one
hundred and eighty-four.
Section 1. If any person shall cut, destroy, or carry away any
tree, timber, wood, or underwood whatever, lying or growing on the
land of any other person, without leave of the owner thereof, he
shall, for every such trespass, pay the party injured, twice the value
of any tree so cut, destroyed, or carried away ; and for the wood or
underwood, treble the value thereof; to be recovered by action of
trespass before any justice court in the county authorized to hear
and determine the same, if the damages do not exceed the sum of
one hundred dollars ; but if they be above that value, then before the
supreme court, or court of common pleas in the same county, as the
case may be.
Sec. 2. In case any dispute shall arise upon any action brought as
aforesaid, where the plaintifff shall charge the defendant in trespass
with cutting, destroying, or carrying away any particular tree, par
cels of timber, wood, or underwood, off or from any such land as
aforesaid, or of being aiding or assisting therein, then in such case, if
the plaintifff, his agent, or attorney shall make oath that there have
been cut, destroyed, or carried away, such and so many trees, parcels
of wood, or underwood, as mentioned in the writ, and that he sus
pects the defendant to have committed the said trespass, although the
plaintifff, his agent, or attorney may not be able to produce any other
evidence thereof than such circumstances as render it highly prob
able in the judgment of the court before whom the trial is, then and
in such case, unless the defendant shall acquit himself upon oath, to
be administered to him by the court who shall try the cause, the
plaintifff shall recover against the defendant, damages and costs ; but
if the defendant shall acquit himself upon oath as aforesaid, the court
before whom the trial is shall enter up judgment for the defendant,
to recover against the plaintifff double his costs occasioned by such
prosecution.
Section 1. Whenever complaint shall be made in writing and
under oath to a justice of the supreme court, that any person hath
made unlawful and forcible entry into lands or tenements, and with a
strong hand detains the same, or that, having lawful and peaceable
entry, or peaceable entry into lands or tenements, any person, unlaw
fully and with force, holds and detains the same, such justice shall
make out his warrant under his hand and seal, directed to the sheriff
of the county in which such lands or tenements lie, or to his deputy,
commanding him, in behalf of the state, to cause to come before him,
at such time and place as he may appoint, within such county, twelve
good and lawful men of the same county, which warrant shall be in
the following form, to wit : —
The State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc. To the sheriff of the county of or to his
deputy, greeting :
Whereas complaint is made to me the subscriber, by
of that of upon the day of
at with force and arms and with a strong hand did unlaw
fully and forcibly enter into and upon a tract of land of him the said
in aforesaid containing
acres, bounded as follows, viz. : (or into the messuage or tenement of
him the said as the case may be,) and him the said
with force and a strong hand as aforesaid did expel
and unlawfully put out of possession of the same ; (or, as the case
may be, that having lawful and peaceable entry, or peaceable entry,
such person unlawfully and with force holds and detains him the said
out of the same,) you are hereby commanded in behalf
of the state to cause to come before us, upon the day of
at in the said county, twelve good and lawful
men of your county, to be empaneled and sworn, to inquire into the
forcible entry and detainer, (or forcible detainer, as the case may be,)
as aforedescribed. Given under my hand and seal the
day of in the year
Justice of the supreme court.
Sec. 2. Such justice shall also make out his summons to the party
complained against in form following, to wit : —
r ° °
The State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] sc. To the sheriff of our county of or to his
deputy, greeting:
We command you that you summon of
to appear before the subscriber at a place called in
in the said county, on the day of at
o'clock in the noon, then and there to answer to and de
fend against the complaint of to him exhibited ; wherein
said complains that (here recite the complaint) ; and you
are to make return of this writ with your doings thereon unto me
upon or before the said day. Witness our said justice,
the day of in the year
Justice of the supreme court.
Sec. 3. Such summons shall be served upon the party complained
against, or a copy thereof left at his usual place of abode, six days
exclusive, before the day appointed by the justice for the trial ; and
if, after the service of such summons, the party shall not appear to
defend, the justice shall proceed to the inquiry, in the same manner as
if he was present.
Sec. 4. When the jury summoned, or such other jurors as may
De taken up on a new venire to be issued by said justice if occasion
should require, shall appear, they shall, to the number of twelve, be
empaneled to inquire into the forcible entry and detainer, or forcible
detainer complained of, and the justice shall lay before them the ex
hibited complaint, and shall administer to them the following oath,
to wit: —
Foreman's oath.
You, as foreman of this jury do solemnly swear (or affirm) that you
will well and truly try, whether the complaint of now
laid before you is true, according to the evidence : so help you God ;
(or, this affirmation you make and give upon peril of the penalty
of perjury.)
The oath of the other jurors.
The same oath which your foreman has taken on his part, you and
every one of you will well and truly observe and keep : so help you
God ; (or, this affirmation you make and give upon the peril of the
penalty of perjury.)
Sec. 5. If, upon a full hearing of the cause, the jury shall find
the complaint laid before them supported by the evidence, they shall
sign and return to the justice their verdict, in form following, to
wit: —
At a court of inquiry holden before one of the justices of the su
preme court within and for the county of at upon
the day of in the year the jury upon their
oaths, do find that the lands or tenements in aforesaid,
bounded (or described) as follows (as in the complaint), upon the
day of in the year were in the lawful and
rightful possession of the said and that the said
did, upon the same day, unlawfully, with force and arms and with a
strong hand, enter forcibly into the same, and (or, being lawfully upon
the same) did unlawfully, with force and a strong hand, hold and keep
out the said and that he doth still continue wrongfully to
detain the possession from him the said : whereupon the jury
find, upon their oaths aforesaid, that the said ought to have
restitution thereof without delay.
Sec. 6. Upon the return of verdict for the complainant as afore
said, the justice shall enter up judgment that the complainant have
restitution of the premises, with all costs, to be taxed by the justice,
and shall award his writ of restitution and for costs against the party
complained of in form following, to wit : —
The State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] s. e. To the sheriff of our county of or to his dep
uty, greeting :
Whereas, at a court of inquiry of forcible entry and detainer,
holden at in our county of upon the t day of
in the year before one of the justices of the supreme
court, the jurors empaneled and sworn by our said justice did return
their verdict in writing, signed by each of them, that was
upon the day of in the rightful possession of a certain
messuage or tract of land (as in the verdict returned), and that (as
in the verdict) ; whereupon it was considered by our said justice that
the said should have restitution of the same ; we command
you, that taking with you the power of the county if necessary, you
cause the said to be forthwith removed from the premises,
and the said to have peaceable possession of the same, and
also, that you levy of the goods and chattels and real estate of the
said the sum of being costs taxed against him on
the trial aforesaid, together with twenty-five cents more for this writ,
and also your own fees for levying the same ; and for want of such
goods and chattels or real estate of the said to be by you
found, you are commanded to take the body of the said and
him commit to our jail in in the said county of
there to remain until he shall pay the sum aforesaid, together with all
fees arising on the service of this writ, or until he is delivered by or
der of law ; and make return of this writ and your doings thereon
within twenty days next coming. Witness our said justice at
aforesaid, the day of in the year
Justice of the supreme court.
Sec. 7. If the verdict be that the complaint is not supported, or
the jury cannot agree upon a verdict, the defendant shall recover his
costs of the proceeding, to be taxed by the justice, who shall award
to him, in common form, execution therefore.
Sec. 8. No appeal shall be allowed from the judgment of said
justice, nor shall a new trial be granted by him or by the supreme
court in this proceeding, nor shall such judgment be a bar to any
action thereafter brought by either party.
Sec 9. Such proceeding may be removed by certiorari into the
supreme court, and be there quashed for irregularity, if any such
there be.
Sec. 10. Complaint as aforesaid may be made within three years
after the forcible entry and detainer, or forcible detainer complained
of be committed, and not after.
Sec. 11. Every person summoned and attending as a juror shall be
entitled to the same allowance per day for his attendance, and for
travel per mile, as for like attendance and travel in the supreme
court ; to be paid in the first instance by the complainant before the
verdict shall be received, and to be taxed in the bill of costs against
the defendant, if the verdict be against him.
Section 1. Whenever any goods or chattels of more than one
hundred dollars' value shall be unlawfully taken or unlawfully de
tained from the owner or from the person entitled to the possession
thereof, and whenever any goods or chattels of that value, which are
attached on mesne process, or execution, or warrant of distress, are
claimed by any person other than the defendant in the suit or process
in which they are attached, such owner or other person may cause
the same to be replevied.
Sec. 2. If any sheriff or deputy sheriff be party to such suit, then
the writ shall be directed to and served by either of the town ser
geants or constables in the county in which the same is to be served.
Sec. 3. The officer charged with the service of any such writ shall,
before serving the same, take from the plaintifff, or from some one in
his behalf, a bond to the defendant, with sufficient sureties in double
the value of the goods and chattels to be replevied ; with condition to
prosecute the said writ of replevin to final judgment, and to pay
such damages and costs as the defendant in such writ shall recover
against him, and also to return and restore the same goods and chat
tels in like good order and condition as when taken, in case such shall
be the final judgment on such writ.
Sec. 4. In case the defendant shall, at any time pending the writ
of replevin, be dissatisfied with the amount or the sureties in such
bond, the court before which the same shall be pending may, on his
motion, and for cause shown, in their discretion, order the plaintifff to
give further bond or further surety ; and if the plaintifff do not com
ply with such order, his action shall be dismissed, and judgment shall
be rendered for the defendant, for a return and restoration of the
goods and chattels replevied, and for damages and costs, the same as if
the plaintifff had neglected to enter his writ of replevin.
Sec. 5. Whenever any plaintifff in replevin shall neglect to enter
atid prosecute the suit, the defendant may, upon complaint, have
judgment for a return and restoration of the goods and chattels re
plevied, and reasonable damages for the taking, with such reasonable
costs as may be adjudged by the court ; and a writ of return and
restoration thereupon accordingly.
Sec. 6. If, upon trial of the writ of replevin, judgment shall be
rendered for a return and restoration, the defendant shall recover his
reasonable damages with costs of suit.
Sec. 7. If, upon trial of the writ of replevin, the plaintifff shall
make good his plea, he shall recover of the defendant his reasonable
damages for the taking and detention of the goods and chattels and
his costs.
Sue. 8. If, upon trial of the writ of replevin, the plaintifff shall
make good his plea for part of the goods replevied, and shall fail
to make it good as to the other part, he shall have judgment for his
reasonable damages for the taking and detention of the part adjudged to be his, and his costs ; and the defendant shall have judg
ment for a return and restoration of the goods and chattels adjudged
to him with damages, as provided in the seventh section of this chap
ter, according to the relative value of such part, and with or without
costs at the discretion of the court ; but the court before whom such
trial shall be had shall, in such case, set off the damages recovered by
each.
Sec. 9. Whenever the goods and chattels replevied shall have
been taken on execution or warrant of distress, they shall, in case of
. * » . . i i . -I " ., i * i
a judgment of return and restoration, be held responsible lor the space
of twenty days after the return thereof ; if on mesne process, until
thirty days shall have expired after final judgment thereon, in case
judgment shall not then have been given ; but if final judgment on
mesne process shall have been given before the return, then for the
space of twenty days only after the return ; to the end that the cred
itor at whose suit they were originally taken may have a complete
remedy, and the benefit of his attachment.
Sec. 10. Whenever any action of replevin shall be brought against
an officer who has taken or attached goods and chattels at the suit of
a creditor, such creditor shall have the right to assume the defense of
such suit upon indemnifying the officer against damages and costs
therein, and the money recovered by way of damages by any such
officer shall be deemed to be recovered to the use of the attaching
creditor, and when received shall be paid over to him.
Sec. 11. The writ of return and restoration shall be substantially
as follows : —
The Siate of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
[seal.] Se. To the sheriffs of our several counties, or to their
deputies, greeting :
Whereas of in the county of
lately replevied the following goods and chattels, viz. : (here enume
rate and particularly describe them,) which of
in our said county of had unlawfully taken (detained or at
tached as the case may be), as the said suggested, and
caused the said to be summoned to appear before our
court of common pleas (or supreme court) then next to be holden
at within and for our said county of to answer
unto said for such unlawful taking, (detaining or at
taching as the case may be), on the Monday of
And whereas to our said court at their said term, begun and holden
as aforesaid, upon a full hearing of the cause of the taking (detain
ing or attaching, as the case may be), it appeared that the said taking
(detaining or attaching, as the case may be) was lawful and justifiable ;
whereupon it was then and there by said court considered, that the
same be returned and restored unto the said irreplevi
able ; and that the said recover against the said
the sum of dollars, damages, for his taking the same by
the said process of replevin, and his costs of defense taxed at
as to us appears of record, whereof execution remains to be done :
We command you, thereforee, that you forthwith return and restore
the same goods and chattels unto the said and also that
of the goods and chattels and real estate of the said
within your precinct, you cause to be levied and paid unto the said
the aforesaid sums, being in the whole with
twenty-five cents more for this writ, together with your fees ; and for
want of such goods and chattels or real estate of the said
to be by you found within your precinct to satisfy and pay the sums
aforesaid, we command you to take the body of the said
and him commit to our county jail in your precinct, therein to be
kept until he pay the sums aforementioned, with your fees, or until
he be discharged by the said or otherwise by order of law.
Hereof fail not, and make true return of this writ and your doing
thereon to our next court of common pleas (or supreme court) to be
holden at in our said county of on the
Monday of next Witness Hon.
at this day of in the year
Clerk.
Sec. 1 2. Justice courts may issue writs of replevin where the
goods and chattels to be replevied are of one hundred dollars or less
m value, if they were taken, attached, or detained in the town in
which such justice court is established. They are also empowered to
try the same, and to award execution therein, adhering in their pro
ceedings, as near as may be, to the forms herein prescribed.
CHAPTER 225.
OF ACCOUNT.
Section
1. Action of, when lies between
tenants in common, &c., or joint
owners of property real or per
sonal.
2. Of appeal from judgment in.
3. Of the appointment, qualification,
and duties of auditors in.
Section
4. Of powers of auditors.
5. Of judgment and costs on report,
and compensation of auditors,
how paid.
6. Auditors act by majority, though
all must accept and meet.
Section- 1. Whenever two or more persons have and hold any
estate, interest, or property, whether real or personal, in common, as
joint tenants, tenants in common, coparceners, or joint owners, and
one or more of the owners of such common property shall take, re
ceive, use, or have benefit thereof, in greater proportion than his or
their interest therein, such owner or owners, his or their executors
and administrators, shall be liable to render his or their account of
the use and profit of such common property to his or their fellow
commoner or commoners, jointly or severally ; and such the fellow
commoner or commoners, or any or either of them, their executors,
or administrators, may and are hereby authorized to have his or their
action of account against such receiver or receivers, or either of them,
as his or their bailiff or bailiffs, for receiving more than his or their
part or proportion as aforesaid.
Sec. 2. Any defendant in such action may appeal to the next
term of the supreme court to be holden in the same county, from a
judgment of the court of common pleas against him that he shall ac
count ; but if no such appeal be prayed in open court, within two
days next after such judgment, the same shall be final.
Sec. 3. Upon rendering final judgment against the defendant in
such action that he shall account, the court rendering the same shall
appoint not exceeding three auditors ; who, upon being sworn by
said court, or any justice of the peace or notary public, to a faithful
and impartial discharge of their duties, shall appoint a time and
place to meet the parties in such action, and to take the account as
required in such judgment, and give notice thereof to said parties.
Sec. 4. Whenever any defendant shall unreasonably refuse or neg
lect to appear at the time and place assigned by such auditors, or,
after appearing, shall refuse or neglect to render an account, the au
ditors may award to the plaintifff the whole of his demand ; and it
shall be in the power of the auditors to administer an oath to the
parties respectively, and to examine them respecting their accounts
and the matters submitted to them ; and upon either of the parties
refusing to take an oath truly to answer such questions as shall be
asked, or to answer directly to the interrogatories put to him, it shall
be in the power of the auditors to commit him to jail, there to re
main at his own charge until he consent to take such oath, and
answer such interrogatories.
Sec. 5. Whenever the auditors appointed in any case shall have
made their report or award concerning the matters submitted to them
to the court from whence they shall have received their appointment,
if no legal cause shall be shown for setting aside such award or re
port, judgment shall be rendered in conformity thereto, and also for
costs, including such reasonable allowance to the auditors for their
services as the court shall judge proper to make ; and the s-aid com
pensation to the auditors shall be paid down by the party in whose
favor final judgment shall be rendered, before he shall have execu
tion on such judgment.
Sec. 6. A major part of the auditors appointed in any case, agree
ing and signing such report or award, the same shall be equally bind
ing and conclusive as if agreed to and signed by all of them : Pro
vided that it shall be necessary, in order to give validity to such
report or award, that all the auditors shall accept of their appoint
ment, and meet on the subject matter thereof.

