69. Sec. XI. In all cases where a suit shall be instituted in any ;‘;g:;',‘jnm
of the said Courts, on any bond, note, or other written obligation, sub- nlvlirvrs. M
scribed by several persons, who reside in different Counties, the  plaintifff shall have his option to institute his suit in either of the 2-‘,',.rf,',f,'.',:_
said Counties, and the Clerk shall issue the original petition and pro
cess, and a copy or copies in such County, against the defendant or
defendants who may reside therein, in the manner directed by this Act;
and shall also issue another original, and copy or copies thereof, for
the defendant or defendants, resident in other County or Counties ; and
it shall be the duty of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, to cause
such oiiginal and copies to be delivered to the Sheriff or other oﬂicer
in such other County or Counties, who shall execute and return the
same to the Court from whence they issued, in such manner as is
hereinbefore directed, and on such return the plaintifff may proceed
as in other cases.“
‘See subdivision “Pleo.ding," 8:0. this Art. for further provisions as to form of peti
tion and answer.
ﬂf process is waived, need not be attached, soc “ Feet," &c. sec. 49.
1Scventeen days, by Act of 1829, see. 72.
§As to what constitutes residence, scc Art. "I. “ Citizenship and Residence," sec. 242.
|]\Vhcn but one served, see sub-division “ Parties,” of this Art. sec. 103.
As to phza of infancy by one, see “Pleading," S.-c. sec. 112.
As to suitsagainst sureties to Administrators, &c. bonds, sec " Parties," sec. 101.
(1.) On a note for rent, omitting the words “ of a store house,” is not fatal, 2 Kelly, 124.
Rule of pleading prescribed,1b 238 Common counts imuﬂicicnt, 3 lb.
70. Sec.‘ XII. No suit or action shall be issued against any execu
mnpttro-Ii tor or administrator, for any matter or dause agamst the testator or
““ ‘2 “‘°E' intestate of such executor or administrator, in any of the said Courts,
until the expiration of twelve months after probate of the will of
such testator, or letters of administration, granted on the estate of
such intestate.T1
Buitsshall
71. And no suit in any of the said Courts shall abate by the death
('|'L',‘,{i,b('.‘}§,,‘Z' of either party, where such cause of action would in any case survive
§§;ei'o}';‘;_ to the executor or administrator, whether such cause of action would
§ji‘*v"e:_‘1"
survive in the same or any other form, but the same shall proceed
as if such testator or intestate had not died, under the restrictions and
regulations following.2 When a plaintifff shall die, in any case afore
said, the executor or administrator of such plaintifff shall, within three
months after taking out probate of the will, or letters of administra
Eciw fwiae tion, give notice to the defendant or defendants, by seire facias,I to
issue out of the Clerk’s oﬁice, returnable in the manner hereinbefore
prescribed for the issuing and return of process ; and in cases where
the defendant shall die, it shall and may be lawful for the plaintitl' to
issue ascire facias in manner aforesaid, immediately after the expi
ration of twelve montl1s, requiring such executor or administrator to
appear and answer to the said cause§
.
Fame sole.
And where a feme sole, being plaintifff, shall marry pending any
suit, the same shall not abate by reason of such intermarriage, but
the same being suggested on the record, such cause shall proceed in
the name of the husband and wife.

An Act for the relief q" Slterzﬁs in certain mses—Approved 22d De
cember, 1829. Vol. IV. 408.
Whereas, it is frequently oppressive upon Sheriffs to serve and
return all writs and processes within the time prescribed by law ; for
remedy whereof,
.
72. Be it enacled, That from and immediately after the passing of
this Act, it shall not be necessary, as heretofore, for the Sheriffs of
this State to serve all writs and processes at Common Law twenty days
‘See title " Exeeutors." Sac. for the several Acts in relation to them.
'I’Sec. 77, as to administrator dr bonis mm.
IContents of scire facias, see Act of 1841, sec. 76. See also see.
§For other provisions as to making executors and administrators parties in particular
cases, see secs. 77, 81, this title. See also “ Exec-utors, Administrators," Sac. secs.
1l4, H8, 92, 100.
In attachments and garnishments, sec “ Attachment and Garnishment," secs.S, 51,
65.
In claim cases, see Art. VII. “ Claims," &c. sec. 255.
(1 ) An injunction may be served within the twelve months, where no recovery is sought
against the administrator. 6 Ga. 299.
(2 ) Action of debt against Sheriff for an escape‘ survives under this Act. 1 Kelly, 514.
Action survivtrs although both parties be dead. 2 lb. 81.
On death of usee, rcprcs_entative should be made :1 party, even in claim cases. 3 I6. 15$
Service of proecss—-()flice vacant or officer interested.
before the sitting of the Court to which the same may be made re- 
rrllowed to
turnable, but the same may be served and returned seventeen days "rye *1"
wnts and
before the sitting of the Court; Prozmled, nevertheless, that all wrrts
and processes shall be copied and issued, as heretofore, twenty days
before the sitting of the Court to which the same may be made re- {:,§,,",§,‘If"
turnable ; any law, usage, or custom to the contrary notwithstanding. P'°'"~°
An Act to regulate the Publication ofRules, TVrz'1s, Bil-ls, Orders and
Precepts of Court, relative to cases in Equity, to ﬁr the cost there
of, anzl to amend certain defects in the Process of IVr2'ts, and to
prescribe the time q/fling Declarations in Attaclunmts.—-Assent
ed to, 20th Dec. 1838. Pam. 168.
See. I.
73. Sec. II. When any process or writ shall bear test in thename of ilijrlrzlildlc 0“
any Judge of the Superior Courts of this State, who shall have died "“‘l“"'
before the issuing the same, said writ or process shall not abate there
for, but the same shall at any time be amended, on motion, without
delay, or costs.
An Act toauthorize the Justﬁ-‘es of the Inferior Court for the swernl
Counties of this State, to elect the Clerk 0] the Court 0fOrdinary.—
Assented to, Dec. 21, 1839. Pam. 41.
Secs. 1 6L II.
And be itjurther cnactea', If any County shall re-::l§¢;"*;‘l§l,ﬂ.

fuse or neglect to elect _a Clerk or Sheriff, for sixty days after a va- and _ér;a of
cancy shall have occurred in either of

said ofﬁces, that suitors :‘g]\‘r‘ix'i;'nEriay

and plaintifffs may apply to any Clerk or Sheritf of an adjoining '“‘
County, and have the required duty performed by them, or either of
them, in the same manner as a Clerk or Sheriff in said County
might have done.
51:0. IV. All Acts or parts of Acts militating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.
An Act to alter and amertd the 91/1 Sec. of the Jud2'cia1'y Act @1799,
and the 1st Sec. of an Act relative to Encutians, passul Dec. 14,
181l.—Assented to Dec. 22, 1840. Pam. 113.
75. See. I. All original process hereafter issued by the Clerks of'V\'hH'e SW
the Supenor and Infenor Courts respectively, where the Shenif who
Ought to execute the same, shall be anywise interested, shall be di- ,is,,'i',°,l',,fl,°"d'
rect'ed to the Coroner of the County in which said Sheriff may 1'e-§;°,[‘“"' """
aide, andto the Sheriffs of the adjoining Counties, and shall be ser
ved and returned by the said Coroner, or the Sheriff of any one of
Sci. ja.—-Administrator rte bonis non—Commcnce;ncnt of suit.
such adjoining Counties, at the option of the plaintifff, within such
time and in such manner as required by law inother cases?‘
An Act to alter and amend the 6th sec. t*e., and to prescribe the
mode of 1'ssm'ng scire_fam'as in certain cases thqrein providedfor.
Assented to Dec. 11, 1841. Pam. 142.
Fqikfn-W,
76. Sac. III. All scire facias hereafter to be issued for the pur
N U W pose of making parties to any suit at Law or Equity pending in the
°°'“°""Superior or Inferior Courts of this State, shall be issued by the Clerk
of said Court; in which it shall be snﬂicient for said Clerk to state
the names of the parties, the term of the Court to which said case
was made returnable, and the name of the suit or action requiring
the party to appear and show cause why he should not be made par
ty to said cause, without setting forth the substance of the bill or
declaration, or the proceedings had thereon, as heretofore practised.
Sec. IV. All laws and parts of laws militating against the pro
visions of this Act, be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend the twelfth section of an Act entitled an Act to re
vise and amend the Jrttliciary system of this State, apt-oroved
February 16, l799.—Assented to Dec'. 18, 1843. Pam. 121.
Adm’r do
Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the

f,f;:5j,";";,.,_ passage of this Act, in all cases where an executor or administrator
may be dismissed before ﬁnal administration, it shall and may be
lawful to commence suit against the succeeding executor or admin
istrator for any matter or cause of action against the testator or in
testate of such executor or administrator, in the several Courts of
Law and Equity in this State ; Provided, twelve months shall have
expired after the probate of the will of the testator or the date of
the ﬁrst letters of administration.
An Act to deﬁne and determine what sfage of a suit at Law shall be
regarded the commencement of act-t'en.—'-Assented to Dec. 23, 1843.
Pam. 126.
IVhereas, conﬂicting opinions exist in the different judicial cir
cuits of this State in reference to what stage in the progress of a
suit at Law, is the commencement of action,
Filingoftho 78. SEC. I. Be it thereforee enacted, That from and after the
Z'f.',“,,‘,,I.’,,,'l‘.,". passge of this Act, the ﬁling of the writ in office shall be regarded
'§f§:‘“'° and considered the commencement of action; Provided, it shall be
the duty of the Clerk to enter on the declaration the time when said
‘For former Act an onthis subject, see Art. XVII. “Officers of'Court," sec. 379.
D‘i-smissol of suit—Sc1-vice on Corporations.
declaration is ﬁled in office ; to which entry said Clerk shall sign his
name.
Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act
be, and the same are hereby repealed.
An Act to enable parties plat/ztif in suits commenced in the Su]:er~z'0r
and Inferior and other Courts of this Sta/c, to dismiss their actions
during the vacation of said Courts, on the same terms they are
now authorized to zlismiss actions at the regular terms of said
Courls.—Assented to Dec. 23, 1843. Pam. 122.
79. See. I. IV/zercas, inconvenience and delay frequently occur
by reason that parties plaintiﬁ who commenced suits in the Superior
or Inferior and other Courts of this State, cannot dismiss their actions
except at the regular terms of said Courts,
Be it thereforee enacted, That from and after the passage of this rmm_rr~ _
Act, parties plaintifff who have commenced, or may hereafter com- i",',“,Z;,,‘Q’,‘-,"',',’:‘
mence suits in the Superior or Inferior and other Courts of this
State be, and they are hereby authorized to dismiss‘ their actions
during the vacation of said Courts, on the same terms they are now

authorized to dismiss actions at the regular terms of said Courts.
Provided, that such dismissal shall be ﬁrst entered on the docket by Entered by
the Clerk of the Court in which said suit may be pending, during "'° um‘
the vacation of said Court.
Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act
be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to provizle for the service of original process upon Corpora
tions.—Approved Dec. 27’, 1845.
80. Be it enacted, That from and after the passing of this Act, ff{]{f1§,,‘:,,_
service of all bills, subpoenas, writs, attachments, and other original :fg;,"'}'!°n"a‘_-I1:
process necessary to the commencement of any suit against any cor- ¢wpomi\lnﬂ

poration in any Court of Law or Equity in this State may be exe
cuted by leaving the same at the place of transacting the usual and
ordinary public business of said corporation, if any such place of
business there shall be within the jurisdiction of the Court in which
said suit may or shall be commenced ; and if any corporation shall
not have any such place for the transaction of its usual and ordinary
public business, then by leaving the same at its last notorious place
of transacting its said business, and publishing a copy of said sub
poena, attachment or other original process, in one of the public ga
zettes of this State for the space of three months ; and any copy ofuw of
the newspaper containing said publication shall be received in all the "°!"'H>lP°I
Courts of l'.l11S State as sufﬁment evidence of such service.* '
W “M
I

'

0

I

‘For mode of service so as to obtain judgment against the corporators individually, see
Art. X. “ Corporations," sec. 276.
[l.] The dismissal of a suit does not amount to a relraa.-it. 6 Ga. 432. The party cannot
dismiss after the verdict is published. 7 lb. 191. The suit may be dismissed after a con
tinuance. 8 lb. 463.'
Sci. fa. where there are eevcrulpartics—Action for Tort by Administrator.

An Act to amend the twelfth section of the Judim'ar-y Act of seventeen
hundred and ninety-m'rte.—-Approved Dec. 27, 1845. Pam. 40.
IVhereas, it sometimes happens that in cases where scire facias
has been sued out against several parties, the same cannot be returned
served upon all said parties by reason of one or more of them hav
ing removed out of the County in which the suit was pending, or
out of the State; and whereas, there are conﬂicling decisions in the
Courts of this State as to the time within which st-ire facias should
be sued out to make the legal representative or representatives of de
ceased plaintifff, parties. For remedy whereof'—
Wherel_-eve- 81. See. I. Be it enacted, That in cases where there are several parties to be served with scirefacias, and any one or more of them reside out of the State or County in which the suit is pending, a ser
:v",,‘l';,°f,°:fm vice upon those residing in the County where the suit is pending,
at f;5.’;:;'o and a return that the others are not to be found, shall be held and
considered a sufficient service and return to authorize the making of
the representative or representatives of such deceased plaintifff or de
fendant, as the case may be, a party or parties, so as to authorize the
original suit in the name of the parties so made, to proceed to trial
and judgment as though all such parties had been served with scire
facias.
In all cases where the representative or representa
the discro~ tives of a deceased plaintifff are to be made parties by sczre famas,
'§I,'I,ﬂ'_"‘° the same shall issue within such time as the presiding Judge shall
deem to be reasonable, under the circumstances, and the presiding
Judge shall in all cases have power and authority to give such time
for the issuing and service of scire facias to make parties, as in his
opinion may be necessary to promote the ends of justice.
SEC. III. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act
be, and the same are hereby repealed.
An Act to auth01"z'zc'certain actions at Law.--Approved Feb. ‘23,
;'\)€,Ii,?;1f0r
83. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That in all cases hereafter where
,1(1“m.s_te death shall ensue from or under circumstances which would entitle
l¢zi§.{“"“ the deceased, if death had not ensued, to an action against the per
petrator of the injury, the legal representative of such deceased shall
be entitled to have and maintain an action at Law against the person
committing the act from which the death has resulted--one-half of
the recovery to be paid to the wife and children, or the husband of
the deceased, if any, in case of his or her estate being insolvent.
Bail process—-Atiidavit—Sherifl"s duty.
2. BAIL IN crvrr. c.isrs.=*
Aﬂidavit for Bail.
Sheriff's duty—1iabi1ity.
Proceedings vs. Bail.
Arrest of itinerant.
Bail pend. lite.
Vol. 1. 292.
In all cases where bail is requirable, and the ,",',f,‘{{“,l,',r,k,,
plaintifff in any action shall require bail, such plaintiﬂ"T shall make gggdglgfe
affidavit before any Judge, Justice of the Inferior Court, or Justice
of the Peace within this State, or any Judge or Justice of a Superior
Court of any one of the United States, shall have annexed thereto
the seal of the State from whence it shall come, and a certificate of
the Governor certifying that the person taking such aﬁidavit is one
of the Judges or Justices of a Superior Court of that State, of the
amount claimed by him,I' and that he has reason to apprehend the §¥g,L':‘.X°
loss of the said sum, or some part thereof, if the defendant or de-;§:°‘,',‘f,,m
fendants is or are not held to bail, which affidavit shall be ﬁled inbﬂliwkw
the Clerk’s office, and copies thereof affixed to the original petition
and process, and to the copy or copies thereof, and the amount sworn }e_.-“,fI‘l,f§“I§,'_"
to shall be endorsed on the petition and process.
d°’“}'
When any civil process shall issue out of any of ﬁilitiifiisrg-u
the said Courts, whereby bail shall be required to be taken in manner f'i‘,‘,',{'|,“},,,'},“,{,'i
aforesaid of any person or persons to answer any action in any of };;“:f(,°,‘,,"eCi{_q
the said Courts, the Sheriif or other ofﬁcer shall take a bond§2 with to take Wk
one or more sufficient security or securities, for double the sum sworn :\iiiii‘ii.iam'
to, and shall return such bond, with the petition and process; and in mm‘
case the Sheriff or other ofﬁcer shall fail or neglect to take such bail,
or the bail taken shall be deemed insufficient by the Court, on ex
ceptions taken thereto, and entry thereof made at the ﬁrst term to
which the said petition and process shall be returned, such Sheriff or
other ofﬁcer, and his or their security or securities, in either of the
said cases, shall be deemed and stand as special bail, and the plaintifff
may proceed to judgment according to the provisions of the Act
hereinafter mentioned. And‘ in all cases where any defendant or 0."
defendants, of whom bail shall be required, shall refuse to give good iiﬁiiiiiéa
and suﬁicient bail, it shall be the duty of such Sheriff or other oﬁicer mjaih
‘For Act authorizing attachment against bail in certain cases, see “ Attachment and
Gurnishment," sec. 53.
For Act exempting widows and femcs sale from imprisonment for debt, see “lniolvem;
Debtors/‘sec. 39; see same title for mode of discharge of all debtors imprisoned.
1‘His agent or attorney, Act of 1831, see. 96.
iFor debts not due, see sec. 99.
§Puyab1e to plaintifff, sec sec. 98.
(1.) The character of the debt, or cause of action need not he set forth. 7 Ga. 366.
(2.) The bond need not be axsigrrcd by the Sheriff to enable the creditor to sue thereon.
Proceedings rs. 13ail—Itinerants.

to commit such defendant or defendants to the common jail of the
County, or if there should be no jail in the County, or the same shall
be insufficient, it shall and may be lawful for the said Shcritf or
other officer to conﬁne such defendant or defendants in some private
Ftillmayde-1101159 ;* Nevertheless, such person or persons shall be allowed all
""'“'
the beneﬁts of appearance and defense as if he, she, or they were
personally present, and shall not be discharged out of custody, but
by putting in bail, or by order of Court.
All bail taken according to the directions of this
‘g‘“"‘ "‘“' Act, shall be deemed, held, and taken as special bail, and as such be
liable to the recovery of the plaintifff ; but the plaintifff, after ﬁnal
judgment, shall not take out execution against such bail, nntila caps‘/I3
ct. sa.
ad sutisfaciendmn shall be ﬁrst issued thereon, and the principal can
s.;,_(,_
not be found, and shallalso issue ascire facias returnable to the
said Court, which shall be served on the bail at least twenty days
before the return thereof ;1 and after the return of such capias ad satisfa
ciemlzun aginst the principal, and scireﬁn-ins against the bail, and judg
ment thereon, execution may issue against the principal and bail, or
either of them, or either of their estates, unless the bail shall sur
render the principal at or before entering up ﬁnal judgment on the
SQ§IfQ','§Z' °rsc1're facius,2 either in open Court in term time,3 or to the Sheriff of
the County in which such principal shall reside, at any time in va
cation; and it shall be the duty of the Court to order such principal
into the custody of the Sheriff, and the duty of the Sheriff in time
of vacation to receive into his custody such principal, and in either
case to commit him, her, or them to jail, according to the directions
of this Act, any law, usage, or custom to the contrary notwithstand
mg.
An Act to c:rtend the powers of Slwrz_'[]'s and Constables in certain
cases.—Approved Dec. 19, 1818.
8,, it,,,, my
87. Sec. I..
It shall be. lawful for. Sheriffs
in all cases where a
.
l""/~WI bail or crimmal process IS placed in their hands, and the person
i’1|u-mnt
P“'*U{I_ in against whom it may be, is moving about from one County to an

iallulllckélgtlcy: other, for the said Sheriff or his deputy to follow the said person or
persons into any County in this State, and serve the said process.
‘Or carry them to jail of adjoining County, sec. 93. , H _.z _ .
‘|’]:‘or pro;:cc_lings against bail in criminal cases, sce “Penal Laws," secs. -111, 414.
(3.) Sci:-e fer-ias need not be served on principal. 0 Ga. 32‘l.
(2.) If no plea is filed, judgment goes on motion and witlnut rt jury; alitcr where a plea. is
ﬁled.
Kelly, 292, 3l6. S1-ire foetus, where only one defendant, cannot be directed to Sheriff
ot'auother County, 1 lb. 315; is a mere continuation of the original suit. lb. The death of
principal between the return ofnon est, and the ﬁnal ju lgment, disch2\r;(cs the boil. 2 lb. 331.
(3.) An r.roncn/tur on the minutes is the only legal evidence. 2 Jt'm'.'a , 334.
An Act to amend the Judiciary Law of this State, passed the 16th
day of Feb., in the your 1799, so far as to authorize the issuing
of Boil process in certain cases.—Approved Nov. 8, 1820. Vol.
IVhereas, great inconvenience has resulted for the want of a law Pmmb'°
authorizing plaintifffs pending actions to hold the defendant to bail ;
for remedy-whereof,
88. Be it enacted, That in cases 'where an action is commenced F-1" my be
and pending, or where an action may hereafter be commenced, and gllliiiii
no bail shall have been required at the commencement of said action, """'
or having been required and has or may be discharged, and the
plaintiffft in any such action pending the same shallrequire bail, such
plaintifff shall make affidavit before any Judge, Justice of the Infe1‘ior,{‘0‘?vd,“,,':f,'m
Court, 01' Justice of the Peace within this State; or any Judge or
Justice of a Superior Court of any one of the United States, shall
have annexed thereto the seal of the State from whence it shall
come, and a certiﬁcate of the Governor, certifying that the person
taking such aﬂidavit is one of the Judges or Justices of a Superior
Court of that State, of the amount claimed by him,1 and that he has
reason to apprehend the loss of the said sum, or some part thereof,
if the defendant or defendants is or are not held to bail ; which af-1
ﬁdavits shall be ﬁled in the Clerk’s office of the Court in which
such action is pending, and a copy or copies thereof affixed to the
process to be issued by the Clerk of said Court in which such suit
may be pending, and to the copy or copies of such process, and the
amount sworn to shall be endorsed on such process and the copy or Q,I§,lf,"f,,1“‘
copies thereof.”
the process.
89. Sec. II. “’hen any such affidavit is made and ﬁled in the "Mm ""1"
Clerk's office of the Court in which such suit is or may be pending, Sill M M
the Clerk thereof shall immediately issue a process in the case, with
as‘ many copies as there are defendants,annexing a copy ‘of said af
ﬁdavit to each process and copy process, and which process shall be
made returnable to the next term of said Court after the issuing of
the same, and shall be executed and returned into Court by the She

ritf, his deputy, or other proper officer, and when so executed and re
turned shall be taken and considered a part of the record in said

case.
“Then the said process, and copy affidavit and copy sun: In exe

process, shall issue as aforesaid, they shall be, delivered to the Sheriff §'1',§°,‘,',.',’§f"'°

or other proper oﬂicer, who shall be bound to execute the same at ‘"‘“'
_ anytime before the sitting of the Court to which the said process
may be made returnable, under the same directions and provisions as
are pointed out in and by the said Judiciary Act, passed in the year
1799.
‘For Attachments pcnderlte hie. see “ Attachrnen ," &c. sec. 20.

ﬂlis agent or attorney, see Act 1831, sec. 96.
(1) Afidavit for speciﬁc sum baidcs interest, prom-as good in principal‘ only.
(2 ) If indorsed, wrong process void. 3 Kelly, 123.

3 Ifeity, 128.
Bail pmdente lite—Shcriff's duty where there is no

n»{cnd;n:s

91. Sec. IV.

All and every defendant or defendants, when ar

31': Qiiih W rested b virtue of said recess, shall be dealt with b the oﬂicer

. Y .

P .

Y

'|§{,“f,§‘,‘,’,',‘° arrestmg him, her, or them, in the same manner as would have been

:‘,'i§:';*'u‘"“- done had such defendant or defendants been arrested at the com
um
mencement of said action on bail process; and shall be discharged
from said arrest in no other manner than he, she, or they could, in
case such arrest had been made on bail process at the commence
ment of said suit ; and all bail taken according to the directions and under the provisions of this Act, shall be held bound and liable in

the same manner he, she, or they would have been bound and liable,
had he, she, or they become bail at the time of the commencement
of said action ; and the plaintifff or plaintifffs in said action shall be,
and are hereby authorized to proceed in the same manner against the
defendant or defendants and bail, or either of them, as is pointed
out in and by the said Judiciary Act passed in the year 1799.
Th :1
mal of
The. defendant
or . defendants so held to bail, in
uruw we manner heretofore pomted out in this Act, shall not by reason thereof
n it to be
thereby de- be entitled to any delay or contmuance, but the case shall proceed
Wed‘
to trial as though bail had been required and taken at the commence
;-,,,md,,,,, ment of the case ; and when there are more defendants than one in
such suit, some of whom reside out of the County in which such
''"-*i" (“F suit is pending, a second original process and copy or copies may
ifs"-’.m Conn. issue, returnable to the Court in the County in which such suit or
action is or may be pending, which when served by the Sheriff of
the County where such defendant or defendants reside, or by other
proper oﬂieer, the said defendant or defendants shall be subject and
liable to the same provisions and restrictions as he, she, or they
would have been had the bail process issued at the commencement
of said case.
An Act rcqm'ring Sherifs and Constables in any of the Counties in
this State not having Jails, to convey to the Jail of an ud_joim'ng
County persons by them arrested on a writ of Capias ad Satisfa
ciendum, or any legal process requiring Bail ; and to require the
Jailers of such Counties, on good and suﬂicient Security being
given for the Jail Fees, to receive and safely keep such Prisoners.
Approved, Dec. 13, 1820. Vol. IV. 201.
The smm, 93. The Sheriffs and lawful Constables in any of the Counties of
“"1 C°"*"" this State that are not provided with a jail be, and they are hereby
Mes in C01! n
I"i§j\?|'f§\;1; authorized and required to convey persons arrested by them by vir
pgtiylided, tue of a capias azl satisfacicndum, or other civil process which may
:4 a carry
prisoner: to require bail, to the jail of any adjoining County, and to deliver such
§-,2: {EL-'§,,‘,’_r person or persons to the keeper of such jail; Provided, the person
§;}%£;;"“°“ or persons so arrested shall refuse or neglect to give such bail as the
ofﬁccr arresting may be authorized to require.
Thump", 94. Sec. II. The keepers of such jail shall, and they are hereby

',’£§{f.'_,f,“" authorized and required to receive into their care and custody any
" “"“'
person or persons delivered to them in conformity to the preceding

"‘°“"
section, and him or them safely keep until they are delivered from
thence according to law, or by direction or request of the plaintifff,
his agent or attorney ; Provided, that the plaintifff, his agent, or at- rroyldqd ge
torney shall give bond with sufficient security to the keeper of§1‘iri2;v'
such jail, for the jail fees and weekly maintenance of the person“
or persons so delivered to him for safe keeping!‘
An Act more efectzlally to quiet and protect the possession ofpersonal
property, and to prevent taleing possession by fraud or violence.
Approved Dec. 25, 1821. Vol. IV. 207.See. I. . [See “Possessory Warrant,” sec. 429.]
95. SEC. II. VVhen any person who is about to commence an§::|é:8L:~
action or suit at Law or in Equity for the recovery of negroes or
other personal property, such person, his agent or attorney, shall make
affidavit, that he hath reason to apprehend that the said negroes or
other personal property have been or will be eloigned, or removed
away, or will not be forthcoming to answer the judgment, execution,
affidavit
or decreethe
thatvalue
shall of
be the
made
same,
in the
andcase
the; amount
and shall
of also
hire state
claimed,
in his
if
any, and add, that he, she, or they do verily and bone ﬁde claim the
said
therein;
negroes
a copy
or ofother
such personal
affidavit shall
property,
be annexed
or someto valuable
the petition,
interest
bill,
or bther process, and the original afﬁdavit ﬁled in the Court whence
such process issues; and it shall be the duty of the Sheriff, his
deputy, or other lawful ofﬁcer serving such petition, bill, or other
process, to take a recognizance, with good security, in double the
amount sworn to, for the forthcoming of such negroes or other per
sonal property, to answer such judgment, execution, or decree as may
be issued or rendered in the case; and such security shall be bound
for tl1e payment of the eventual condemnation money, and liable to
execution in the same manner as securities upon appeals ; and when
such affidavit shall be made during the pendency of any process, a
copy thereof, and .of the process or subpoena, shall be served in like
manner by the Sheriff or his deputy, or other lawful officer, and the
like security taken; and upon the defendant refusing to give such
security, the property shall be seized and taken by the Sheriff or
other lawful officer, and delivered over to the plaintifff or complain
ant, his agent, or attorney, entering into a like recogisance, with se
curity ,1 and if such property is not produced or forthcoming to be
seized and taken by such Sheriff or other lawful ofﬁcer, the defend
ant or defendants shall be committed to jail, to be kept‘ in safe and
close custody until the same is produced, or until he, she, or they
shall enter security for the eventual condemnation money, inthe na
ture of security upon appeal.
‘On failure, to be discharged, see Art. XL "Habeas Corpus," sec. 292, this title.
also “ Insolvent Debtors," secs. 7, 37.
(1.) If the plaintifff dismisses his suit, holding possession of the slaves, his possession is
not tort6io1us, so as to mtain trove: by defendant. 1 Kelly, 259.
Bail required by Agent or Attomcy—0n Sabbath day—-Bail Bond.
An Act to amend the Judiciary Law of 1799, in relation to bail, and
also to amend an Act entitled “ an Act to amend the Judiciary Law
of this State, Passed the 16th day of Febnuny/, 1799, so far as to
authorize the issuing of bail process in certain cases,” passed the

8th day of November, 1820,30 far as to authorize agents, attor
neys in fact or at law, to hold to bail in all civil ca§es.—Appr0ved
Dec. 26, 1831. Pam. 137.
From and after the passage of this Act, it shall and

orney may
gwlqgobail may be lawful for any agent, attorney lll fact or at law, to hold to
muvd cues
bail in all civil cases, and under the same rules and restrictionsas are
pointed out in the before recited Acts on that subject.
Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act
are hereby repealed.
An Act to authorize the issuing, sm'ng, and e:reeuting attachments
on the Sabbath day, in certain cases.—Approved December 20,
IVhercas, it sometimes happens that persons residing near the lines
of this State, leave the State on the Sabbath day, and thereby place
it out of the power of their creditors to stop them or their property,
to satisfy debts owing by them ; for remedy whereof—
°
1\“*'''''°'"
97. attachments
Be it enacted,
it shall hereafter
be lawful
to in
and
zgfsbdiayprse
‘I - serve
andThat
bad_ processes
on the Sabbath
day,
. issue
the same
served on
the Sabbath. manner and under the same rules, regulations, and restrictions as are
now provided for the issuing and serving of the salne on other days ;
Provho.
Provided, the person or persons applying for such attachment or bail
process shall, in addition to the oath heretofore required to be taken,
swear that he apprehends the loss of his debt, or some part thereof,
unless said attachment or bail process shall issue on the Sabbath
day!
Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws that militate against this Act
are hereby repealed.
An Act to define the mode of taking bond in cases of Bail in this
State.—Assented to Nov. 24, 1841. Pam. 145.
,l};yi§.}:f°"‘:0
98. Sue. I. From and after the passage of this Act all bonds
"l°.P|l1Miﬂ'- taken in cases of bail in this State shall be taken payable to the
plaintifff in the cause, any law to the contrary notwithstanding.
An Act in relation to proceedings to recover debts not due.—Approved
December 27, 1845.
99. SEC. I. ' When a debt is not due, and the debtor is about to
‘All other process served on Sabbath day void, except for treason, felony, or breach '
of the peace, see title "Penal Laws," sec. 387.
Bail on debts not due——Reprcscntativcs of deceased obligor and survivor.

remove, or is removing without the limits of this State, and oath gatllrnr
being made by the creditor, ,his agent or attorney in fact, or at law, did“ no‘
of the amount of the debt to become due, and that the debtor
is about to remove, or is removing without the limits of this State,
and that he has reason to apprehend the loss of said debt, or some
part thereof, if the debtor be not held to bail, it shall and may be
lawful for the creditor to commence an action or suit at law, and
hold said debtor to bail, in the same way and manner, and under the
same restrictions as where an affidavit is made under existing laws ;{§'°!n"'d‘;",f,
and the bail so taken shall in like manner be liable to the creditors : mm-ﬂu
Provided, always, that judgment shallnot be re11dered in any such
cause until after the debt has become due.
See. 100. C0-obligor and Representative "~‘ec..103. Service on Joint Contractor,
“ 101. Surcties on Bond and Principal. “ 10}. Ezfect of Judgment.
An Act ];01'nli/2g out the mode of collecting a ccrlain description of
debts therein meMioncd.—App1-oved Dec. 19, 1818. Vol. III. 338.
100. From and immediately after the passing of this Act, where §&";§Q§:
any person shall be in possession (either in his own right, or in any figerngffyogo
other capacity,) of any note, bill, bond, or other obligation in wri- sued in the
ting, signedby two or more persons, and one or more of the persons, 
whose names are so signed as aforesaid, shall die before the payment “""'-i
of the money or the compliance with the condition of such bond or
other obligation in writing, the person or persons holding such note,
bill, bond, or other obligation in writing, shall not be compelled
as heretofore. to sue the survivor or survivors alone, but may, at his,
her, or their discretion, sue the survivor or survivors, or the represen
tatives of such deceased person Qpersons, or the survivor or jsurvivors
in the same action with the representative or representatives of such
deceased person or persons, any law, usage, or custom to the contra
ry notwithstanding: Provirlt-d, nothing in this Act shall be so con
strued as to authorize the bringing of any action, of any kind what-\
ever, against the representative or representatives of any estate 2
estates, until twelve months after the probate of the will, or the
granting of letters of administration on such estate or estates.1
‘As to making parties by ed. fa., see subdivision ante. " Commencement, M, Ac,
tion." Also, as to suits against joint obligors and promisors, sec. 69 (if this tit]q,~,_ A; m
suits against indorsers in same action with principal, see Art. XXI. "suretiqg and
lndorsers," sec. 437. For Act authorizing amendment insttmter, where 9, party is;
omitted, see subdivision " Pleading," &e. sec. 129.
Vlfhere one co-obligor pleads in
fancy, see subdivision “ Pleadings," &:c., sec. 112.
tie to shit against co-obligors living in different Counties, see ante. “ Commence
ment,” &c. sec. 69, this title.
(1.) This Act does not apply to partners. 1Kelly, 494.
enczal contractors. 2 lb. 128.
Sureties on Executors', Administrators‘ and Guardians‘ Bonds.
An Act to authorize suits to be insliluted against semrilics to Ez
ecutors’, Administrators’ and Guardians’ Bonds, in the same ac
tion with tlwprincipal thereto.—Approved Dec. 13, 1820.
IV. 200.
Whereas, it is has been decided by the Superior Courts of this
State, that suit cannot be instituted against any security or securities
to any cxccutor’s, administrator’s, or guardian’s bond, until the prin
cipal or principals to such bond shall have been sued to insolvency,
whereby great injury to the interest of heirs, distributees, and others
may accrue ; for remedy whereof,
Buretlvntp
101. See. I. Be it cnowted, That from and after the passing of
§:i'iii’.'i"i,’. this Act, any and all security or securities to any executor’s, admin
guardians’ istrator’s, or gua.rdian’s bond, shall be considered as joint, or joint
23,11:33- and several obligors (as the case may be) with the principal or prin
.tﬂinwb1id- becipals in said bond, so as to authorize any heir or heirs, distributee
:lcl’;;,i?ln!-I10 or distributees, administrator de_bonis non, and others concerned, to
'“"° "°"°“‘ sue such principal or principals, and security or securities to such
Pr°'lI°bond, or either of them in the same action ;1 Provided always, that
the principal in said bond, if within the limits of this State, shall
be ﬁrst sued, or shall be sued in the said action with the security or‘
securities, and shall be distinguished in said action as principal, if '
sued as aforesaid; any law, usage, or custom to the contrary not
withstanding.
Execution!
102. Sec. II. In all cases where a judgment shall be obtained,
Il§}RihBlPflD in conformity to the foregoing section, execution shall issue against
i-'i‘l:i;,“i‘.l> be the principal and his or their security or securities, or such of them
ﬁiliifﬂlﬁ, as judgment may have been obtained against, which" ‘execution
°f1"""iI’“‘- shall be levied on the property of the principal ﬁrst; and in case
such property should be insufficient to satisfy said execution, or in
case no property can be found within the County where such exe
cution shall issue, the balance or whole of such execution, as the
case may be, shall be levied on and collected out of the property of
the security or securities, or eithe-‘ of them ; and in all cases
When paid when the amoimt or any part thereof, shall be paid by the se
by ‘hesumy curity or securities, such security or securities shall have the use and
heis entitled
l§,,‘,i'°,,,°f,,‘iﬁﬂj control of the execution to remunerate him or themselves, as is cus
;:,',f\'-° Mm‘ tomary in such czises.*
'WimH°
Sec. III. This Act shall not extend to bonds heretofore exe
be prospect
ivo.
cuted.
An Act to regulate the mode of prosecuting Actions against Con
tractors and Copartncrs, in certain cascs.—Approved, Dec. 18,
1820. Vol. IV. 201.
Preamble.
W'hereas, doubts have arisen as to the mode of prosecuting actions
‘See Art. XXI. “ Suretics and Indorsers,” secs. 430, et seq.
(1.) There must be ﬁrst a judgment against the administrator or executor, in his repre
sentative capacity; then the suretics may be joined in the suit against him indiridually
6 G,,_ Q83. J lb. 31. For the rule in Equity in such uses, see 7 lb.
against joint contractors and copartners, when one or _more cannot
be found, or reside without the limits of this State; for remedy
whereof,
103. Be it enacted, That from and after the passing of this Act, In min
that whenever two or more joint contractors, or copartners, are sued §,’;;,‘,{§,'§"
in the same action, and a service shall be effected on one or more :§"°P;;§
of the said joint contractors or copartners, and the Sheriff or other wvive on
one or more,
0fﬁc'er serving the writ, shall return that the other defendant or de- the plnintitf
fondants, are not to be found, it shall and may be lawful for the plaintiii'§’.',',ii§:,',*§'.n§.,
to proceed to judgment and execution against the defendant or defend
ants who are served with process, in the sa1ne manner as if he, she,
or they were the solo defendant or defendants.*
104. Sec. II. Judgments so obtained shall bind, and execution Trio pm-rm;
may be levied on the joint or copartnership property, and also the 
individual property, real and personal, of the defendant or de- i’iiZ.'p,i;.-ri§'.>ii'f
fendants who have been served with a copy of the process, but f:,f:’rf,‘,"hy
shall not bind or be levied on the individual property of the de-"wMs
fondant or defendants who are not served with process.
men"
Sec. III. All laws and parts of laws repugnant to this Act, are “eve-tin:
hereby repealed.
alum
4. PLEADINGS AND PROCEEDINGS PENDING THE ACTION, INCLUDING
AMENDMENTS, ARBITRATION, CONTINUANCES, &c.'|'
Sec. 105. Dcfeucee—-amendment.
1sec. 112.
+For Act dispensing with proof of partnership, unless denied by plea in abatement,
206.
In trespass 1]. c. f. disclaimer, and tender of amends, abar to the action, see Art. XY
_" Limitation of Actions," sec. 338
For Act in relation to amendments of affidavits of illegality, see subdiv.
As to Judges‘ charge, see subdivision of this Art. “Judges, Sessions, 8:0." sec. 47.
105. Sec. IX. And for the more orderly and regular proceeding
in the said Courts, the following rules and methods shall be observed,
to wit: The defendant or defendants shall appear at the Cmut to
which the petition and process* shall be returnable, and on or before the
last day of the said Court shall make h_is, her, or their defense or
answer in Wl‘ll£lll,£,", which shall plainly, fully, and distinctly set forth
the cause of his defense1 and be signed by the party making the
same, or -his, her, or their attorney ; which said answer may contain
as many several matters, as such defendant or defendants may think
£°'"l"' "ms necessary for his, her, or their defense; Prov-irlcd, that no person
0. to be deniodonosllh shall be permitted to deny any deed, bond, bill, single or penal note,
draft, receipt, or order, unless he, she, or they shall make affidavit of
the truth of such answer at the time of ﬁling the same.1'2 And the
said petition and answer shall be suﬂicient to carry the same to the
Jury, without any replication or other course of proceedings ,3 and no
Pmceedtnli petition, answer, return process, judgment, or other proceeding in
l'10oI"d:t':ctniHn
b
any ClV1l
. .
cause, shall be abated, arrested, quashed or reversed, for

£‘I,',§',,J,’,‘,‘,{,,,, any defect in matter of form, or for any clerical mistake or omis
'1“ §"'"’“" sion, not affecting the real merits of the cause ;" but the Court, on

motion, shall cause the same to be amended without any additional
cost at the ﬁrst termi and shall proceed to give judgment according
to the right of the cause and matter of law, as it shall appear to the
said Court, without regard to such imperfections, in matter of form,
Dilatornybarr clerical mistake or omission ; and no dilatory answer shall be rcceiv~
ed or admitted, unless aﬁidavit be made of the truth thereof§"’

-L-Idsmemby

106. Sec. X. Where any defendant shall fail to appear and an
swer in manner aforesaid, the Court on motion of the plaiiititf or his
counsel, shall cuter a judgment by default, and the plaintifff’s claim,
allegation or demand, shall be tried in all cases of judgment by de
fault, by a Jury; but no such trial shall in any case be had at the
Continuance ﬁrst term ; and no cause whatsoever depending in the said Courts
olault.

‘See ante. “ Commencement, &c. Action," as to petition and process.
1“ Indorsements need not be proved, unless denied; sce “ Evidence," sec. 21.
1Sce further, as to ainciidiiients, Act of 1818, sees. 109, 129.

§As to plea denying partiiersliip, see Art. XIX. “ Partners and Partnership,” sec. 428
(l.) Under this clause illegality of consideration cannot be given in evidence under the
general issue, 1 Kelly, 68; nor can a special contract, exempting the defendant from liability.
1 Kelly, 256.
(2.) An alteration need not be explained unless denied on oath, 2 Kelly, 128.
A plea that another was to sign as surety, need not be verified, 8 Ga. 559.

(3.) The plaintifff may prove matter in avoidance of the plea without replication, 5 Ga. 311.
(4) The verdict may be amended where the error is nppnrent,1 Kelly, 463; so also, the
judgment, 1 Kelly, 469; 2 lb. 341. And the minutes of the Court, 1 Kelly, 559; verdict en

tered mmc pro tune, 3 Kelly, 18.
All aniendable defects cured by verdicts, 2 Kelly, 100: 3 lb. 81 ; a now cause of action
cannot be added by amendment, 3 Kelly, -126; Christian name of plaintiff nmy be amended,
7 Ga. 105.
, (6.) A plea by a. surety that another was to sign as co-surety, need not be reriﬁcd. Clog
Iwm vs. Robinson, 8 Ga. Rqn
shall be continued more than one term, at the instance of the same
party.1
SET5‘OFl
107. Sec. XXIV. In all cases of mutual debts and sets-off, where Sets-08.
the Jury shall find a balance for the defendant, such defendant may
and shall enter up judgment for the amount, and take out execution
in such manner as plaintifffs may do by this Act: I’rorided, such de
fendant shall at the time of ﬁling his answer, also ﬁle therewith a
true copy or copies of the subject matter of such sets-oﬁ' ; and
where the plaintifff shall be indebted to the defendant on open ac
count for dealings between themselves, and where the defendant
shall hold and possess in his own right, by assignment, indorsement,
or otherwise, according to law, any bond, note, bill, or other writing,
for money, or other thing of the said plaintifff’s, such defendant shall
and may offer the same as sets-off, and on due proof, shall be allowed
the same.M
ARBI‘1‘RA'1‘10N.‘|'
108. Sec. XXX. In all matters submitted to reference by par- Irlémqtdﬂh
ties, in asuit under a rule of Court or other agreement in writing, iidmuti.
signed by the parties, judgment shall be entered up by the party in
whose favor the award is given, and execution shall issue for the
sums awarded, to be paid as they respectively become due, and to
be levied on the property of the party against whom the judgment
shall have been entered up, and such other proceedings shall be had
thereon by the Court, as in cases of judgments entered up on ver
dicts of Juries: Provided, that no judgment shall be entered upon Provllo.
an award, where it shall appear any other cause or causes stand on
the docket of the Court against the defendant or defendants, unde
termined, before the cause in which a rule or other agreement in
writing for arbitration is entered.
An Act to explain and to enforce the Judiciary Act of 1799, as re
spects special pleadings in the several Courts Q/‘Law in this State.
Approved Dec. 19, 1818. Vol. III. 384.
Whereas, the said Judiciary was intended for the purpose of
bringing parties litigant to a speedy Judicial decision, without delay,
‘Debts not due may be set-off against attachments in certain cases; see " Attach
ment and Gumishmcnt," sec. 21.
tScc "Internal '1‘ransportation," sec. L as to awards in disputes with Rail Road
Companies.
(1.) Two general continuance: do not amount to a discontinuance, 1 Kelly, 275.
reached, continued by Court, 3 Kelly, 23.
If not
(2.) A debt due by teatator cannot be set-oﬁ‘ against a debt accruing to executor.
1 Kelly/, 611. But it may be to a debt due to tcstator. 5 Ga. 357.
,, The set-oﬂ‘ must be against the plaintifff in the action.
2 Kelly, 134.
‘A judgment may be set-oﬂ' against another. 2 Kelly, 165.

In a suit against principal and surety, a debt of principal may be set-off. 4 Ga. 198.
Damages for breach of covenant cannot be pleaded as a set-oﬁ‘. 6 Ga. 509. The guar
anty of anotc may be. lb. See 8 Ga. 184.
Amendincnts-—Inf:mcy of joint obligor.
and with as little costs as practicable, and it was thereby intended:
that the small omissions of parties, Clerks, or Sheriffs, not affecting
the real merits of the cause, should in all cases (substantially set
out) be amended on motion, without delay or costs, and it having
grown into practice in said Courts to give or grant a term, and some
times nonsuit,for the smallest omissions of the ofﬁcers of the said Courts,

All forms!
defects
amendabla
without do
lay or costs.

and as a further increase of the said practice may lead us back to all
that tedious and expensive labyrinth of special pleadings, which
the said Judiciary intended to avoid;
109. See. I. Be it enacted, §'c. That in every case where
there is a good and legal cause of action, plainly and distinctly set
forth in the petition, and there is in substance a copy served on the
defendant or defendants, or left at their most notorious place of
abode, every other objection shall be, on motion, amended without
No a clal
lean ing al
owed.
delay or additional costs.
110. Sec. II. No special-pleadings shall be introduced or admit
ted in either the Superior or Inferior Courts of this State,1 (other
than in Equity,) which shall be conducted in the same manner
as is already pointed out by the Judiciary system of this State now
in force, and that every case shall be carried to the Jury, and tried
upon the petition, process, and answer alone, without regard to the
practice, now grown into use in the several Courts of Law in this
No non-suit State: and no nonsuit shall be awarded when the cause of action is
for want of
substantially set forth in the declaration, for any formal variance be
form.
tween the allegaton and proof?“
No purtofan
111. Sec. III. No part of an answer shall be stricken out or re
answer shall .
bestrickeu jectcd on account of being contradictory to another part of the same
answer, but the Court shall be bound to suffer the whole answer to
remain, if the defendant should desire it, and avail himself of any
advantage he can or may have under either or the whole of the said
answer, and proceed to trial accordingly.
An Act more eﬁectually to protect the interests of parties plaintiﬂ‘s,
in suits commenced against joint obligors or promisers.—Appro
ved December 19,1823. Vol. IV. 212.
If any once:
in ore joint
obligors or
prnrnisorn
plead infan
cy, the ac
non shall
not abate
112. In all cases which hereafter may be commenced against
joint obligors or promisers, and any one or more of the parties de
fendants may plead infancy, and such plea be sustained, the action
shall not as heretofore abate, but the Court shall award judgment as
in cases of nonsuit in favor of the party or parties so pleading, and
permit the plaintifff to proceed against the other defendant or defend
ants to said suit, without further delay or costs.T
‘See Act of 1847, see. 125. Act of 1850, see. 128.
1‘Where all are not served, judgment against those served, see ante. " Parties," see.
103, of this title.
(1.) In ejectmcnt,dcfendanl can plead only general issue and Stat. of Lirn. 6Ga. 88.
(2.) Amendment allowed aftu a case is submitted to the Jury on the appeal, when
the cause of action would be barred. 4 Ga. 208, 445. But see 8 Ga. 51, 209, 463, 522. This
Act contemplates a very liberal practice. 5 Ga. 482.
A general rule prescribed as to amendments. 8 Ga. 61.
An Act to ﬁwilitate the recovery of Personal Property in certain
cases.-Approved Dec. 24, 1827. Vol. IV. 221.
113. IVhcrens, it frequently happens that suits in the ditferent
Courts of Law and Equity in this State for personal property contin
ue for a number of years, and that after the commencement and
before the end of said suits the property in dispute increases, or has
issue which cannot be recovered in any other way than by resort
ing to a new action ; for remedy whereof,
114. Be it enacted, That while any suit or action is now pend- In win‘ for
ing, or may hereafter be instituted in any Court of Law or Equity i1‘:d:>le)'r.'Ty,tha
in this State for personal property, the issue of said property born or ,',"’;',,','1",,:’,‘."',';,,
to be born after the commencement of said suit or action, shall and ,',.',',‘,.{,,',’§,""‘
may be recovered in the said suit or action ; and it shall be the duty €:‘;:P::1i:|%_
of the Court to allow the declaration or bill to be amended at any rd murd
stage of the said suit or action, so as to include the said issue so mw
born or to be born; any law, usage, or practice to the contrary not
withstanding.
An Act to authorize Plaintiﬁs in Ejwtment to recover such mesne
proﬁts as they may be enlitlcd to in said Action of Ejectment by
way Q/‘damages, and to prevent a separate action ﬁar mesne proﬁts.
Approved Dec. 19, 1834. Pam. 78.
115. See. I. It shall be lawful for all plaintifffs in ejectment to
add a count or counts in their writ of ejectment, and to submit evidence to the Jury, and to recover by way of damages all such sum
or sums of money to which they may be entitled by way of mesne
proﬁts, together with the premises in dispute.
Supenor Courts to mcorporate in the execution of habere facms ,m_“>uh the
posscssionem a clause directing the Sherilf to collect all such sums of I,‘,;.:,',.'ﬁ§_“"'
money as, by the ﬁnding of the Jury, shall have been awarded to
the plaintifff in ejectment as mesne proﬁts.
117'. Sec. III. No plaintifff or plaintifffs in ejectment, in cases 1\'ct;i:1)env§£l!a
which may hereafter be instituted, shall be permitted to have and lime.
maintain a separate action in their behalf for mesne proﬁts which
have accrued, or may accrue, to him or them from the premises in
dispute.
118. Sec. IV. In case an action of ejectment be brought by the M a for»
defendant in
the ﬁrst action
.
of ejectment
for the premises
.
recovered innorrntftlind
d 1_
of him, and a verdict obtained in his favor, it shall be lawful for him ﬂ§;“{,L'§,m
to institute an action oh the case for such damages as may have :‘,f,‘,"§;_,:,f'},,,
been collected from him as mesne proﬁts in the ﬁrst action, and un- d"""\K"‘"'
merly recov
> der such action it shall be lawful for him to give in evidence the ver- Mjed min-I

dict obtained by him in the second action, which shall be deemed mm
and taken to prevent the judgment obtained in the ﬁrst action as op
erating an estoppel.
An Act to enable dcfendartls in Action at Common Law, to give in
‘evidence, a partialﬁzil-ure of the consideration rfthe contracts upon
which such action may be brought.—Approved Dec. 26, 1836.
Pam. 157'.
Pnrtialfnil~
urn ufeonllidoration 
119. See. I.

From and after the passage of this Act, whenever
~

any action or actions shall be commenced at Common Law, tounded

'§',f'_§,(E’§’,,, ,,,, upon any contract or contracts, it shall, and may be lawful, for thla
:1‘:,':fL§,'f'“- defendant or defendants to such action or actions, upon the trial
thereof, to give in evidence to the Jury, that the consideration or con
siderations, upon which said contract or contracts are, or were found
ed, have partially failed, any thing in any law or custom to the con
Provin
trary notwithstanding: Provided, that such plea of partial failure
shall only he pleaded in such cases, under such circumstances, and
between such parties, as would now admit and allow the plea of total
Marthe
failure of consideration : And ]I1‘0L'idCdftt1'l/t('T, that the plea con
'§',',,",",:‘,l,,f‘ templated by this Act, shall be fully and specially pleadedat the ﬁrst
term of the Court to which the action may be returnable, and not at
any time thereafter, either at Common Law, or on the appeal.

An Act to simplify and curtail Pleadings at Law.—Approvcd Dec.
27, 1847. Pam. 203.
'!;':rnin“¢r~fl;;1c& .120. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
and means this Act, the form of a declaration for the recovery of real estate and
P"’“""
mesne proﬁts, may be as follows, any law, usage or practice to the
contrary notwithstanding, to-wit :1
Gnoncm,
The petition o (A. B.) sheweth that (C. D.) of said county, is
in possession of a certain tract of land in said County (here describe
the land) to which your petitioner claims title; that the said (O. D.)
has received the proﬁts of said land since the
day o
, of the yearly value of
dollars, and refuses to deliver
the said land to your petitioner, or to pay him the proﬁts thereof:
Wherefore, your petitioner prays process may issue requiring the
said (C. D.) to be and appear at the next Superior Court to be held
in and for said County, to answer your petitioner’s complaint.
121. Sec. II.
The form of an action for the recovery of personal
property may be2 as follows, to wit:
Geonom,
County
To the
Court for said County.
The petition of (A. B.) sheweth that (C. D.) of said County, is
in possession of acertain (here describe the property) of the value
(1.) The ﬁctitious form held to be good. 7 Ga. 172.
(2.) The old form of T rover may still be used. 6 Ga. 213.
Act to curtail and simplity pleadings.
of
dollars, to which yourpetitioner claims title; that the
said (C. D.) has enjoyed the proﬁts of the same since
; that
the said
is of the yearly value of
dollars; and that
the said (C. D.) refuses to deliver said
to your petitioner, or
to pay him the proﬁts thereof: Wherefore, your petitioner prays
process may issue requiring the said (C. D.) to be and appear at the
next
Court to be held in and for said County, to answer
your petiti0ner’s complaint.
122. Sec. Ill. The form of an action to recover money on tJ.A¢tluI;,pp
note, 1:,
‘note, bill, bond, receipt or written promise of any description,‘ by bund,&.c.
adding a copy of which, with the endorsers’ names (if any) and
credits, shall be appended—and when the suit is on a bond, the breach
from which arises the right of action shall be set out plainly~—may
be as follows, to-wit :

Cuzoaeu,
County.
To the

Court of said County.

The petition of (A. B.) sheweth that (C. D.) of said County, is
indebted to him in the sum of
dollars, bssides interest,
on a.
dated
and due
, which said
the
said (C. D.)refuses to pay: Wherefore, your petitioner prays pro
cess may issue requiring the said (C. D.) to be and appear at the
next
Court for said County, to answer your petitioner’s
complaint.
1’r0vided, nevcrt/wless, That when any defendant shall, at the ggmaw
appearance term of such cause, demand oyer of any note, bill, bond,
receipt, or other instruments sued on, the plaintifff shall be compel
led to produce the same to the defendant for the purpose of exam
ination.
123. Sec. IV. The form of an action on an account may be as Action an
follows, to-wit:
um“
Gaoaera,
County. i

To the‘.

Court for said County.

The petition of (A. B.) sheweth that (C. D.) of said County is
indebted to your petitioner

dollars, on an account, as will

fully appear by reference to a bill of particulars hereto annexed,
which account the said (C. D.) neglects to pay : Wherefore, your
petitioner prays process may issue requiring the said (O. D.) to be
and appear at the next
Court to be held for said County,
to answer your petitioner’s complaint.
124. Sec. V. The form of an action to recover money on aminn on
judgment, may be as follows, to-wit:
j“d'"’m°m'
Gnoneu,

County.

To the

Court for said County.

_ The petition of (A. B.) sheweth that (C. D.) of said County, is
indebted to your petitioner
_
dollars, besides interest, on a
Judgment obtained by your petitioner, against the said (C. D.) at a
8 (1.) 6\Yhen on apromiae to pay speciﬁc articles, should avcrthc value of those articles.
ua.

Acts to curtail and simplify pleadings.
(name the Court) Court held on th
_

day of

I

18 . , in the (County, district or town) of
, in the State
of
, as wiil fully appear by reference to an exempliﬁcation
of the proceeding in said case ; that the said judgment is unsatisﬁed,
and that the said (C. D.) neglects to pay the same : Wherefore, your
petitioner prays process may issue requiring the said (C. D.') to be
and appear at the next
Court to be held for the Cou'nty of
, then and there to answer the plaintifff ’s complaint.
mm-nm
Sac. VI. The form of an action for breach of warranty on a
b\§?:.1i.(iy.
4 l r deed may be as follows, to Wit:
The petition of (A. B.) sheweth that (C. D.) is indebted to him in
the sum of
dollars,for this that on the
' day of
, 18
, the said (C. D.) executed to your petitioner a war
rantee deed to a certain tract of land (describe the land) for the
sum of
dollars, paid by your petitioner to the said ( C. D.);
that your pctiiioner has been evicted from said lot of land, and the
said (C. D.) refuses to indemnify your petitioner for his damage in
that behalf: Wherefore, your petitioner prays process may issue re
quiring the said (C. D.) to be and appear at the next
Court for said County, to answer your petitioner’s complaint.

aw non-slut 125. Sec. VII. -No departure from the before prescribed form
.‘,}"§‘,'§}..”,,“'§:° shall work anonsuit, provided the plaintifff shall plainly and dis
“" “‘"“' tinctly set forth his cause* of action. '
Anbicnu~
126. Sec. VIII.
It shall and may be lawful in pleading, to set

',I',".',:l,'df“‘y out amounts and dates in ﬁgures, or what is sometimes called the
Arabic Numerals.
All laws and parts of laws, militating against this Act,

be, and the Same are hereby repealed.

An Act to curtail and simplify Civil Plrade'ngs.—Approved Jan
29‘, 1850. Pam. 275.
Pecllar::lIlnn
127. Sue. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage Pf
“' " an 9" this Act, the form of an action for words may be as follows, to-W1“
GEORGIA,
County

To the Honorable

Court of said County.

The petition of A. B. sheweth that C. D., of said County. 1135
injured and damaged your petitioner in the sum of
dollars,
by falsely and maliciously saying of and concerning your petitioner,
on the
day of
, 18
, the following false and
malicious words, to-wit :
Wherefore your P9‘
titioner prays process may issue requiring the said C. D. to be and
appear at the next
Court to be held in and for said CountY|
then and there to answer your petitioner’s complaint. '
‘Bee same provision, Act of 1818, see. 100; see also, sec. 128.
Amendment of misuomer—Non-joinder—Analysis.

128. Sec. II. No plaintifff shall be nonsuited for want of form, No nonsuii
who-shall set forth his cause of action as plainly and distinctly _%i.Siiiii1Tm°f
the charge of slander is set forth in the form of declaration by the
ﬁrst section of this Act prescribed.

An Act to authorize amendments to be made instantw, in cases of Mis
nomcr in all Judicml Proceedings, andfor other 1nu}2osrs.—Ap
proved Feb. 22,1850. Pam. 44.
129. SEC. I.
Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of -"Tii'1*‘:;*'l;".
this Act, all misnomers made in writs, petitions, bills or other Ju- ii.~llii'J.‘ W
dicial proceedings on the civil side of the Court, shall be amended
and corrected instanter, without working any unnecessary delay to
the party having made the same.
130. Sec. II. In suits by or against partners, or when any two N"I~1"indeX
or more persons sue or are sued in the same action, and the n ime of iiiiiiiiiii. '
any person who ought to be joined in such action as plaintiff or de
fendant is emitted ; on ascertaining the same, the omission shall be
amended instanter.

Not if paid by defendant.
Verdict in tr-over or trespass.
Lien of plaintiﬂ‘.
Appeal by one of several.
Effect of.
Sureties' rights.sec. 103.
As to judgment on award, see ante. “I’lendings, Szc_." sec. 108.
As to judgments in Justices‘ Courts, see title “Justices of the Peace."
As to judgments against sureties on appeal, See Art. XXI. “Sureties and Indorsers,"
sec. 432,
7
As to appeals from verdicts in claimcases, see Art. "II. “ Claim," sec, 3.5()_

As to etfect of judgment on attachment, see "Attachment and Ga.mishmcnt," sees,

11, 49.
As to judgment and executions against stockholders in corporations, see A;-t;, X,
“ Corporations, Sac.” 277.

As to duty of Clerk to enter judgments satisﬁed, se_e Art. XVII. “ Oﬁicers of Court,"
sec. 374.
Judgments against indorsers must specify the contract, see Art. XXI. “Sureties and
Indorsers," sec. 447.
_
I

Appeals in summarfproeess to enforce hen, see “ Internal 1‘1-anspm-mtion,» Am 11
“ Stenmboats, 8:0.” sec. 3.

As to interest on judgments, and separate entry oil the same, see title “ Inwrest,"
sec. 2.

As to verdicts obtained by perjury, see “Penal Code," sec. 163.
For form of verdict in divorce cases, see “Divorce," sec. 4.

For Act_requiring verdicts to be in federal currency, see title “Coin and_(_:m-wncy,"
580- 4.
\'erdict--Sta_v—.-\ ppeal.

Judie-iury Act of 1799.--Vol. I. 292. J
\'c|'dich and
judgments.
131. Sac. XXVI. In allcases where a verdict shall be rendered,
the party in whose favor it may be, shall be allowed to enter and
sign judgment thereon at any time within four days after the adjourn
ment of the Court, at the Clerk's oﬁice, for the amount of such ver

Stay of exo
cllhon.

dict and all legal costs recoverable thereon, and no execution shall
issue on any verdict until such judgment shall be entered,
signed by the party or his attorney; and all the propertyit of
the party against whom suchverdict shall be entered, shall be.,bound
from the signing of the ﬁrst judgment ;‘l'l [but where several judg
ments shall be of equal date, the ﬁrst execution delivered to the She
riff shall be the ﬁrst satisﬁed;]j'_ Proeiderl always, that any party
against whom such judgnrer1t shall be entered, may enter good and
sullicient security, either in open Court or in the Clerk’s ofﬁcc, with

Fi. ta. 1!

in the time aforesaid, for the payment of the judgment and costs
within sixty days; and if such party shall not pay the same agreea
bly thereto, execution may issue against such party, and the security,
without any other proceeding thereon: And Jrrovirled elm, that in
case either party shall be dissatisﬁed with the verdict of the Jury,
then, and in all such cases, either party may, within four days:2 after
Appeal.
the adjournment of the Court in which such verdict was obtained,
Unun pay
ment ofcusts enter an appeal3 in the Clerk’s ofﬁce of such Court (as matter of
and entering
right ;) and if such verdict shall be obtained in the Inferior Court, it
locuriry.
sha_ll be the duty of the Clerk thereof to transmit such appeal! to the
Clerk of the Superior Court of the County in which such verdict shall
be obtained, who shall enter the same on the appeal docket, which
appeal§ shall be admitted and tried by aspecial Jur.y: Providul, the
person or persons so appealing shall, previous to obtaining such ap
peal, pay all costs which may have arisen on the fornrer trial, and
Iun.-ty.
‘As to judgments against partnership where all are not served, see subdivision "Par
ties," sec. 10.3. As to property exempt from sale, sue “lnsoivent Debtors," sec. 16,
1tute.
‘l"llut sec Act of 1822, sec. 135; see also see. H5, as to how far verdict in trovcrvcstl

the property in plaintiff.
Xltcpealcd by Act of 1822, see. 137.

§Appcals from Ordinary, sec. 139.

(1.) The judgment lien takes precedence of factor's lien, subsequent in date. 5 G8
153. Judgment has no lien on notes and chase: in action. 6 Ga. 650.
Judgment lien having attached on property removed to another State, may be enfor

ced if it is brought back. 7 Ga. 3-56. See I/Vellborn vs. Banner, 9 Ga. Rap.
(2.) The appeal will be presumedto be in time, unless the contrary appear. 1 Kelly.
27 5.
(3-) An appeal suspends, does not vacate the judgment, and if dismissed or with
drawn, the rights of all the parties are the same as if no appeal had been entered, and
judgment accordingly. 1 Kelly, 92. An appeal lies from a confession of jrrdgult‘-I1t

reserving the liberty. 1 Kelly, 275; and may be entered by the attorney. lb.
(4.) Sending up the original papers with a certiﬁed copy of the‘ bond, is a compliance
with this requisition. 1 Kelly, 275.
give securityl for the eventual condemnation money* except execu
tors and administrators,2 who shall not be liable to give such secu
rity,‘|' but if, on hearing such appeal, it shall appear to the Jury that
the appeal was frivolous, and intended for delay only, they shall as- 2')per(-ant,
sess damage to the party aggrieved by such delay, not exceedinrr1-: “"“""”
may be giv
twenty-ﬁve per centum on the principal sum which they shall ﬁnd f,:“';;'ng"
due ; and such damages as shall be so assessed, shall be specially no- v“@_Ii-3;-dnml
ticed in the Verdicts or such Jurors,3 and no person shall be allowed ofnppeiil.
to withdraw an appeal after it shall be entered but by the con
sent of the parties. And in case of :1 Jury committing a contempt,
‘or breaking up before giving in their verdict in any civil case, the
Court may declare the same a mis-trial, and shall ﬁne each of the Min-trial.
offendiug Juror or Jurors in a sum not exceeding one hundred dol
lars. And if any party, plaintifff or defendant, be hereafter nonsuit
edor cast, by reason of the neglect or misconduct of the attorney,
who shall hereafter bring or be employed in such suit, in all cases A"Bl'l16}'lliI.
the said attorney shall pay all costs that may accrue thereby, and the liifitif“
Court shall immediately enter up judgment accordingly for the °'“"“'
same.
132. SEC. XXVII. No confession of judgment shall hereafter be Cronfgmnh
entered up, but in the County where the defendant or defendantsO 1“ gm"
may reside, or unless the cause hath been regularly sued out and
dccketed in the usual way as in other cases, nor until such cause he
called in order by theCourt for trial.4
No verdict shall be received on any 11I1llq1ll—‘l:lI:"l"|"ll'i“;‘$f

dated demand where the Jury have increased their verdict on account dm-3 do‘
of interest, nor shall interest be given on any open account, in the um ""
nature
damages.[Superseded by Act of 1812.] C
Sec. of
An Act to point out a regular and deﬁnitive Rule for the Priority of
Judgme/its, obtained in the several Courts of this Strue.—Approv
ed Dec. 13, 1810. Vol. II. 621.
134. See. I.
From and after the passing of this Act, all judg
‘But see Act of 1842, see. 150. See also Act of 1839, see. 147, as to appeals by one
of several parties; and Act of 18-13, sec. 151, and note thereto, as to appeals in Equity
cases.
1“Sce Act of 1843, see. 152, as to appeals by executors, &c.
[1.] The security may be released and another substituted by order of Court. 1 Kel
ly, 176. The bond need not be attested by the Clerk. 1 Ifellg/, 275. Nor signed by the
party. 2 Ibtd. 236. If signed by an attorney, it may be ratiﬁed subsequently by leave
Of Court.
(2.) If the appeal is entered by intestate, in his lifetime, and security becomes in
solvent, administrator need not give additional. 2 Kelly, 272. If judgment is against
executor personally, and not the assets of estate, he must give security. MeCay vs.
Devcrs, 9 Ga. Rep.
(3.) The security may be charged by an‘. fa. 6 Ga. 416.
(4.) Either party has 0. right to confess judgment, with liberty of appeal, without
the consent of the other party. 5 Ga. 298.
Lien of Judgments-—1{enewal—Eﬁ‘ect of appeal“
A11j'ulgm‘tsmeufS obtained in the Superior, Inferior or Justices’ Courts of this

,',',",,",,‘,',’}§',f‘,‘f’ State, shall be entitled to the right or claim of any money received
"*8 "“"°Y- by the Sheriffs, Coroners or Constables, agreeable to the date of such
judgment or judgments, and that all the property belonging to the
defendant or defendants, shall be bound and subject to the discharge
of the ﬁrst judgment or judgments, obtained in either of the afore
lfclaimod said Courts :*'l Promldcd, the demand of such right is made before

“‘ ""“°'

any of the aforesaid oﬁicers have paid the money over to the plain
titf in interest; any law, usage or custom to the contrary notwith
standing.1
Sec. II. [Directing how claims shall be tried inJustices’ Courts;
See Justices of the Peace, sec. 9.]

An Act explanatory of the several Judiciary Laws of this State.
Approved Dec. 7, 1812. Vol. III. 382.
Jnrl:]zm’ts
135. No part of the Judiciary Laws of this State shall be so
;§.,w';Zf b° construed as to require the renewal of any jud_gment as heretofore
practised, or in any other manner whatever.1'

An. Act to amend the 26th section of the Judiciary Act, passed 16th
Jay of December, 1799; and also to prevent a fraudulent enforce
ment of Dormant Judgments.I—Approved Dec. 19, 1822. Vol.

IV. 209.
A coutrariety of decisions having taken place in the diiferent
circuits in this State as to the time when the property of the party
against whom a judgment is entered shall be bound; and dormant
judgments, by being collusively kept open, or made the instruments
of fraud on innocent purchasers, and often operate oppressively on
vigilant and bona ﬁde creditors;
Del'endant’s
136. Be it enacted, That from and after the passing of this Act,
{,'§',‘},”J‘¥mm all property of the party against whom a verdict shall be entered and
“‘“"‘"g °‘ twenty-sixth
a judgment signed
conformity
the beprovisions
of the
the
iliﬁsti::'1'
sectionthereon,
of saidinAct
of 1799, to
shall
bound from
where no up

ml- lfnn signing of the ﬁrst judgment, in cases where no appeal is entered;
appeal, then
.
.
boundso mbutm cases where an appeal 1S entered from the ﬁrst verdict, the
as to pre van t
alienaunn
property of the party against whom the verdict is rendered shall

£§‘,"§§ §‘_" [not] be bound except from the signing of the judgment on the ap
m1l.iudam"- peal, except so far as to prevent the alienation by the party of his,
‘See Act of 1822, secs. 136, 137'.
1'But see Act of 1823, see. 140, as to dormant judgments.
1Amen<1ed, see Act of 1823, see. 140.

[1.] This Act does not repeal the Act of 18th Feb. 1799, giving preference to claim5
of minors in certain cases, in distribution of trustees’ estates. 1 Kelly, 269.
The lien is not lost by a levy on land and a pending claim. 8 Ga. 194.
It is by a sale under a younger judgment Harrison vs. McHenry, 9 Ga. Rep

JUDlC‘LlRY.—-SUP’R AND Inr’n C"rs-—Ach'on—1822—’23.

497’

Protection of purchnsers—Appeals from Ordinary.

hei, or their property, between the signing of the ﬁrst judgment
and the signing of the judgment on the appeal.1
137. Sec. II. All judgments signed on verdicts rendered at the -'§I1Jml1zm'I
same term of the Court, be considered, held, and taken to be of equa§g§'w“:-X"
com-iid|~r~
date ; and no execution founded on said judgments, obtained at the are
on “equal
same term as aforesaid, shall be entitled to any preference by reason mt"
of being ﬁrst placed in the hands of the oﬁicer.*
Sec. III. [Repealed by Act of 1823, see. 147.] .
138. Sec. IV. No judgment shall be enforced by the sale of any NoJInd1:m’l
real or personal estate which the defendant may have sold and con- lhIr:'l|-Jhe on
veyed to a purchaser for a valuable consideration, and without ac- f§,‘}:,l',T,’,:, K
tual notice of such judgment: Providml, such purchaser, or those ,'f,;'{,>;e‘;“§
claiming under him, by such sale and conveyance, have been in ¥):';\:;»n:|";>f
peaceafile possession of such real estate for seven years, and of such who has

personal estate four years, before the levy shall have been made i'§°p'<',;i§3;'i;
thereon. 2

be!‘

m§1‘_’ I"1

An Act to cause all appeals from the Courts of Ordinary of this
Shite to be tried and ilclerm-ined by a Special Jury of the County/'
where the case may happen, touching the Probate of Wills, and
gm/ztmg Letters of Azlzninistraliorz, in which 77ta[l(:l‘S zjfact are
involved, instead of (L decision being had thereon by the Court only.
Approved Dec. 19, 1823.

Vol. IV. 2213,.

it has
the practice
some of Courts
the JudiI cialWhereas,
Circuits of
thisheretofore
State for been
the Judges
of thein Superior
to l'm‘nlI-.
hear and determine appeals from the Courts of Ordinary of this
State, touching the probate of wills, and granting letters of ad
ministration, in which matters of fact were involved ; and it being
the policy of this government to retain the trial by Jury in all cases
in which matters of fact are involved,
139. Be it thereforee enacted, That from and immediately after Armilfrnm
the Courts of
the passing of this Act, all appeals taken up from the decision of the Ordinary m
several Courts of Ordinary of this State to the Superior Court, f,’;,‘¢'i',',’1“,-".,’,,f
touching the probate of wills, and granting letters of administration,
in which matters of fact are involved, shall be tried and determined
by a Special Jury of the County where the case may happen, in the
sum way and under the same regulations as other appeals ; any law,
usage, or custom to the contrary not\vithstandiug.’f
‘See ante, Act of 1810, see. 134.
fSee Appendix, " Constitution of Georgia," Art. III. sec. "I.
[L] If two judgments are obtained at same term, and one is appealed from, and
pending the appeal property is rdiencd, and subsequently levied on and sold, the judg
me'nt.u:1appca1cd from is the oldest lion. 8 Ga. 121.
[2.] Applies to judgments obtained prior to 1822, 7 Ga. 163.
Dormant judgments—Liubility of securities.
An Act to be entitled an Act to amend the Third Section. of an Act
passed 19th day of December, 1822, entitled an Act to amend the
twenty-si.zlh Section of the Judiciary Act, passed the 16l]L day of
December, 1799 ; and also to prevent a fraudulent enforcement
of Dormant Judgmenls.—Approved Dec. 22, 1823. Vol. IV. 214.
f)§;'§':,fl}‘“
140. All judgments that have been obtained since the said 19th
;gxeggg day of December, 1822, and all judgments that may be hereafter
1t_s2_2, on‘ rendered in any of the Courts of this State, on which no execution
:=iliii'u“§°°x' shall be sued out, or which executions, if sued out, no return shall
§‘,?,°;‘,,{’,}‘,‘,;°‘ be made by the proper oﬂicer for executing and returning the same
'G';“,fu‘:'§;‘ within seven years from_the date of the j_udgment,l shall_ be void
rrmrgd poem and of no effect : _Pr0mde_d, that nothmg_ 1n this Act contamed shall
Pmvlso ' prevent the pla1nt1ﬂ‘ or plaintifffs 1n such Judgments from renewmg
the same_ after the expiration of the said seven years, in cases
where by law he or they would be otherwise entitled so to "do,"‘2 but
the lieu of such revived judgments on the property of the defendants
-thereto, shall operate only from the time of such revival.
141. SEC. II. “Then any judgment or execution has been de
Any jud ;:n1’t
or execution
clared
void and of no effect by the construction given by any of the
dcrlared
;',;‘:’,,~,,“,,';‘,';f’{,,Courts to the said third section of said Act, the said judgment and
#10 M of execution so declared void and of no effect shall, and is hereby de
i1§2\3’ti>riia in clared to be in as full force and eﬂ"ect as though the said Act had
f{‘,!‘,‘g€;;,"f;§_§=‘ Sec. III. The said third section of the Act passed on the said
P¢ﬂe*l19th day of December, 1822, is hereby repealed.

An Act to deﬁne the liability 12]‘ Secmities on Appeal, on Smyof
E'recuti0n, and for protection of Bail, §‘t-.——Approved Dec. 20,
1826.
Vol. IV. 216.
l-::’lil‘ll,,;"_1i*[\’i!l!-!V8- 142. Sec. II. In all cases of appeal where security hath been
and sccullly given, and hereafter given, and hereafter to be tried, it shall and
""'"““'°“" say be lawful for the plaintifff or his attorney, to enter up judgment
against the principal and the security jointly or severally,3 and the
execution shall issue accordingly, and proceed against either or l)0Tl1
at the option of the plaintifff until he is satisﬁed: P)‘Ol‘l(l8él ,‘iCl/‘Billie’
‘—~"Sce Act of 1850, see. 156, as to revival where defendant is absent from the SW?»
(1.) There must be an entry every seven years. 2 Kelly, 252. If it is not buwd
when it comes into Court to claim money, it will not become so Pending the litigation
3 Kelly, 274.
The entry may be made by the oﬂiccrs of any County. 7 G 0.187.
Debt lies on a dormant judgment. lb. 393.
Mortgage judgments are not embraced in this Act. lb. 495
Applies to decrees in Equity. 8 lb. 32.
Effect of dormant judgment as evidence to prove devastavit, sac 8-Ga. Rep. 351
(2.) When assigned, renewed in name of plaintifffs for use of assigncm

*r

(3.) ThisAct cumulative, not imperative.

6 Ga. 416.
less, if the execution against the security or securities be ﬁrst paid Com»! by
by him or them, then the execution against the principal shall still mumy'
be of force and under the control of the security or securities, until
the same be satisﬁed by said principal.
[For balance of this Act, see Art. XXI. “Securities and Indor
. sers,” sec. 431.]
An Act to authorize the Assignment and Transfer of Judgments and
Ea:ecutions, and to make certain and uniform the practice with
regard to the sa2ne.._—u‘lpproved Dec. 22d, 1829.
143. From and after the passage of this Act, it shall and may be Jurlzmus or
executions
lawful for the plaintifff in any judgment or execution to sell or trans— made nego
fer the same by written assignment, or control, and said sale or as- {',‘,§',§'f§‘,’,‘,{',|,,'

signrnent shall not be considered a discharge or satisfaction of said
execution, but the assignee may proceed to collect the same for his
own use and beneﬁt, in as full and ample a manner as the plaintifff
could have done if no such transfer or assignment had been made.1
144. SEC. II. Nothing in this Act contained shall be construed ,1:‘,‘r’{)iy"I}::i"1'._
as to authorize the collection of any execution which may have ieudunt
been paid off by the defendant or his agent, and kept open for the
purpose of defrauding other creditors.

An Act to prevent Personal P-rojrcrty which is the subject ofan Action
of Trespass, or Trover,ﬁom resting in the defendant or defend
ants to such action, by virtue ofa recovery and judgment by the pla-inthf, cm-cpt so far as to be subject to be sold under the execu
lion, which shall or may issue upon such judgment of the said
plaintlf, obtained by him in the said Action of Trespass, or Tro
ver, and to make such propertyﬁrst liable to the payment of the
damages recovered in said m;tion.—Approved Nov. 25, 1830.
From and imnietliately after the passing of this Act, when How to {he
tiff,
a verdict
in trover
for damages,2
or tresfmss,shall
andbea judgment
found, or rendered
shall bein signed
favor ofthereon,
a plain- f,,‘(f§f§
£{§.‘.’.“;.55 "‘
the said verdict and judgment shall not have the effect to change ‘‘“P“‘'
the property, which is the subject matter of the said suit, or action,
or to vest the same, or any part thereof, in the defendant, or defend
ants, to the said suit, or action of trespass or trover, until after the
(1.) An assignment of a judgment against the ﬁrst indorser, to the subsequent in
‘ dorser, on payment of the debt by him, is not an extinguishment of the judgment,

1 Kelly, 205.
An assignee takes, subject to all Equities.

2 Kelly, 155 : But does not acquire the

right to sue for a fraud against the original plaiutiﬁl
ments arc negotiable, as promissory notes payable to order. 6 Ga. 364. Assignment
should be in writing. 6 Ga. 515; otherwise, the assignee takes only an equitable in
terest.
Appeal by one of several parties.
damages and costs recovered by the pltdntiﬂ' in such action, are paid
oﬁ and discharged, except so far as to subject the said property to
be sold under and by virtue of an execution, issuing on said judg
ment, in said action of trespass, or trover, and to make the same lia
ble to the payment of the damages and cost, recovered in said action.
z-,i:i'|*“?§.nm
146. Sec. II. No judgment obtained against the said defendant,
rife-[rd by to such suit or action of trespass or Q-over, prior in point of time to
iiliiiliigit the said judgment, so obtained by the said plaintifff, in such action.
§‘;,:§‘,,'§_° of trespass or trover, shall have any lien or binding force on the said
property, which is the subject matter of such action of trespass or
trover, until after the damages and costs recovered by such verdict,
and judgment of the plaintifff, in such action of trespass or trover,
are ﬁrst paid off and discharged.
Sec. III. All laws and parts of laws, which militate against this
Act are hereby repealed.
A1i Act to explain and amend the Judiciary Act of 1799, so far as
concerns the granting of Appeals in certain m.ses.—Assented to
Dec. 23, 1839. Pam. 142.
Whereas, acontrariety of opinion exists among the Judges of
this State, and aditferent practice prevails in the different Judicial
Circuits thereof, touching the granting of appeals under certain cir
cumstances, for remedy whereof:
‘"13’ {*‘.°f147'. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
iiiijll-’i",i,'i'¢”u*i. this Act, it shall and may be lawful, whenever there shall be more
than one party plaintiﬂ' or defendant, and one or more of mid par
ties plaintiff or defendant, desire to appeal, and the other or others
refuse or fail to appeal, it shall and may be lawful for any party
p1aintiﬁ' or defendant, to enter his appeal, under such rules and regu
lations as are now provided by law.l
’Il‘::n§h£u|_g’ - 148. Sec. II.
lpon the appeal, either of the plaintifff or defend
up. .

ant, as aforesaid, the whole record shall be taken up, but in case

damages shall or may be awarded upon such appeal, such damages
"="W.1"""-sl'iall
only be
recovered against
the party or parties
appealing, and
I IISHHI-I their
. securities,
. .
.
.
. .
.
l1Y-elr_~v|wland not against
the party or parties
failing
or refusmg
M
to appeal.
‘:flfl‘:,i;i°**’
149. Sec. III. In case any such security or securities shall be
lgiilnstthe compelled to pay off the debt or damages for which judgment may
appellant.
.
be entered, in any cause, he, she or they shall have recourse only
agamst the party or parties for whom he, she or they became securi
ty or securities.
(1.) One of the parties not appealing, dying, his legal representative must be made a
party. 1 Kelly, 475.
The party not appealing is bound by ﬁrst vcrdict—-no ft. fa. can issue however, until

judgment on appeal.
Appeals without paying costs—Appea.ls in Equity Cases.
An Act to enable parties, plaintiffs or defendants in any Court of
this State, to appeal, without paying costs and giving security,
as now required by law, on certain conditions herein mentioned ,
and also to enable parties in Justices’ Courts in this State, to ob
tain cert-ioraries without paying cost and giving secm'it~y, on cer
tain conditions herein mentioned.—Assented to Dec. 27', 1842.
Pam. 13.
150. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage ofPmy we
this Act, when any party, plaintiff or defendant in any suit at Law, aphl\i:.\,nf;‘,"llo
or in Equity, hereafter to be commenced, in any of the Courts of l,’;§':.f,' ,,.
this State, where the party cast shall be dissatisﬁed with the decis~ “""Yi
ion, and shall be unable to pay cost and give security, as now re
quired by law, if such party will make and file an aiﬁdavit in writing,
that he or she is advised, and believes that he or she has a good
cause of appeal, and that owing to his or her poverty,l he or she is
unable to pay the cost and give security, as now required by law
in cases of an appeal, such party shall be permitted to appeal without May appeal.
the payment of cost, and without giving security, as heretofore prac
tised in this State.
Sec. II. [As to certioraries; see Art. V.
“Certiorari,” &,c.
237.]
An Act declaratory of the Law of this State relaling to Appeals in
the Superior (,'ourts.—Assented to Dec. 27, 1843.
151. SEC. I.
Pam. 123.
Be it enacted, That in all cases hereafter to be 1/gpgflllljrzn
tried in the Superior Courts of this State, on the Equity side there- c.iln.ni.,n'
of, either party who may be dissatisﬁed with the verdict of the Jury, Law °‘“°"'
-may enter an appeal in like manner and under the same limitations
and conditions as are prescribed in cases at Common Law, which ap
peal shall he tried by a special Jury under the provisions governing
Common Law cases.2
"This Statute was passed to relieve the Courts from a contrariety of opinion as to
the right of appeal in Equity causes. 'l‘he Judiciary Acts of I792 and 1797. provided.
that the Superior Courts should "be competent to sustain a suit by bill and proceedings
therein, until the setting down of the oausc for hearing; such Superior Courtshall then
submit the merits of the suit, with the evidence thereon. which in all cases shall be
given viva rmce in Court (or otherwise within the rules of the Common Law,) and all
matters respecting the same to a special Jury, who shall give their verdict on the same;
but if either party shall be dissatisﬁed with such verdict, an appeal may be entered in
the Clerk's otliee within ten days after trial, when a hearing of such cause shall again
be had before another special Jury. and such trial shall be ﬁnal and conclusive." The
Act of 1797 repealed the Act of 1792, and the Act of 1799, repealed this section of the
Act of 1797, with others, and is itself silent on this subject. 'l‘he Constitution of 1798,
however, renders Jury trial, " as hentofore used,” inviolatc. The Convention of
Judges in Pool vs. Barnett, Dudley's Iflp. 8, held that these provisions of the Acts of
1792 and 1797, were still in force—and this opinion seems to be sustained by the Su
preme Court. Hargraues vs. Lewis, 7 Ga. Rep. 126.
(1.) The aﬁiduvit must allege that the inability arises ilrom poverty. 3 Kelly, 252.
(2.) \Vhen an appeal is entered, the injunction is not dissolved as a matter of course.
2 Kelly, 265.
Appeals by Executor and Adnﬁnistrator—Jud.grnent.s on Bonds-—Revival of jutlgrncnt.
An Act to authorize parties to enter an Appeal, in certain cases
therein mentz'oned.—Assented to Dec. 27, 1843. Pam. 124.
dmz
152. See. I. Be it enacted, That- in all cases hereafter to be tried
4<iay:, ex- in any of the Courts of this State, when either the plaintiff or de
$},',‘,§,‘,’,',,;d' fend:-mt shall hereafter depart this life, after said cause has been tried,
'l';,“e-‘;ZL’§"}‘i'|\)',_ and before the time has expired, which such party has allowed by
he 7
law to enter an appeal, and no appeal shall have been entered, it shall
be the right of the legal representatives of such party dying, to enter
an appeal within four days from the time such executor or adminis
trator shall have been qualiﬁed : Provided however, that in the con
struction of this Act, noappeal may be entered in causes not the
subject matter of appeal. '
if zsiﬂhcw 153. Sec. II. Whenever an appeal shall be entered under this
tiiineclaltitry Act, it shall not be necessary to revive suit under seirefacia-s ; but
suit shall be revived by the party giving notice to the adverse party
within thirty days from the time of appeal; and whenever a dc
fendant shall appeal, said cause shall stand for trial on the appeal
docket, at the ﬁrst Court after twelve months shall have expired
after such executor or administrator shall have been qualiﬁed.
An Act cliret't0)'_1/ of the mode of entering up jII(IgIHO7It on official
or voluntary b0nds.—-Approved Dec. 30, 1847’. Pam. 201.
154. See. I. Be it enacted, That from henceforth all judgments
rendered against the obligor or obligors of any bond, whether official I
or voluntary bonds, shall be for the amount of damniﬁeation found
by theperdict of the Jury, and not for the penalty thereof, as has
been decided in some of the Courts of this State.
Js‘:l¢-qcI¢l~;1IiI\;se
155. Sec. II. Until the penalty of said ofﬁcial or voluntary bonds
nntilpenalty has been exhausted by previous recoveries and satisfaction thereof,
"""'““"°"'no person aggrieved or injured by the conduct of any one of the
obligors, shall be prohibited from suing said [bond] or bonds, nor
shall any previous recovery thereon be held as a bar to such subse
quent suit, until the person pleading it shall prove that 1'ecovel'i<?8
have been had to the extent of the penalty of such bond: Provided,
nothing herein contained shall be construed to affect any cause here‘
tofore decided.1
Judgment
for amount
01' verdict.
An Act toperfect service of scirefacias on absent defendants by pub
lication,for the purpose of reviving dormant juclgments.—Appr0'
ved Feb. 8, 1850. Pam. 272.
gengigndcnts
_156. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
against ah. this Act, whenever any judgment obtained in any of the Courts Of
':,'{1“°r°“"' this State, is or shall become dormant, and the defendant or defend
(1.) See Bothwell et.aI. vs. Sheﬂicld et. al. 8 Ga. Rep. 569.
ants do or shall reside without the jurisdictional limits of this State,
that said judgment may be revived against said absent defendant or
defendants by such process as is usual in case‘ the defendant or
defendants reside within the State: Provided always, that the Serv_1ce by
defendant or defendants be served with a scire facias by pub— pubhum°“'
lioation in some public gazette of this State once a month for four
months previous to the term of the Court at which it is intended to
revive said judgment, which service by publication shall be as
eﬁ"ectual in all cases as if the defendant or defendants had been per
sonally served.
Sec. Il. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.
Sec. 157. Errors and new trials.
“ 158. From trials by special Jury.

Sec. 159. Tried by special Jury.

Judiciary Act of 1799.

Vol. I. 292.

157’. See. LV. The said Superior Courts shall have power to 5221633“!
correct errors and grant new trials in any cause depending in any of :r_=§n§ new
the said Superior Courts, in such manner and under such rules a11d"“'“‘
regulations as they may establish, and according to law, and the

usages and customs of Courts.1
Sec. LVI.

‘

[Oath of the special Jury repealed]

158. See. LVII.

In any case which has arisen since the sign- New"h1,_

ing of the present Constitution, or which may hereafter arise, of a
verdict of a special Jury being given contrary to evidence and the
principles of justice and equity, it shall and may be lawful for the
Judge presiding to grant a new trial before another special Jury, in
the manner prescribed by this Act; Provided, that twenty days’ no
tice be given by the party applying for such new trial to the adverse so days no
party of his intention, and the grounds of his application.2 And the “°"'
said Judge shall, in all cases of application for new trials or correc
(1.) The Inferior Courts have no power to grant new trials. 6 Ga. 172.
Public communication, in Court, by the Jury with the Judge, is no ground for a new

trial. 1 K311]/, 200. Privatecomrnunication may be. 7 Ga. 397. Maybe granted in
Equity cases. 6 Ga. 1. May be granted from the ﬁrst verdict. 7 Ga. 436. On the ground
of surprise. 5 Ga.75 Fornew matter or evidence. 5 Ga. 86. 8 Ga. 276. Improper conduct
of Jury. 5 Ga. 86. 6 Ga. 287. Verdict against evidence. 7 Ga. 269, 283. Improper papers
sent out. 7 Ga. 283, 397. Excessive damages. 8 Ga. 113.
ness. 8 Ga. 136.

On ground of mistake of wit
_

(2.) Application for new trial, except in extraordinary cases, must be made during
the term at which the trial was had. 1 Kelly, 252. It may be made returnable in va~
cation.

4 Ga. 157.

This Act is but an aﬁirmance of the Common Law. 1 Kelly, 254.
A Judge mqy decide the motion for anew tiial, who did not preside on the trial.

Kelly, 306.
Decision of Judge to be written out--Costs in Civil Cases.
tion of errors, enter his opinion on the minutes of the Court for his
determination on each respective case)’
n¢r..m_.p.. 159. Sec. LVIII. All new trials shall be had by a special Jury,
°“““"' to be taken from the Grand Jury list of the County. [As to the
manner of striking the special Jury, see secs. 302, 307.]1
An Act to require the Judges of the Superior Courts of this State 40
write out and place upon the minutes of said Courts their decisioru
in full in all cases of motions for new trials, whether the some be
granted or rejected, and upon all cases of udgment upon writs of
certiorari, mandamus and habeas corpus, and upon all nzotions in
arrest of judgment, and to Provide [for] the collection, publication

and distribution of the samc.—Assented to 10th December, 1841.
Pam. 132.
[This Act has become obsolete since the establishment of :1 Sue

prcme 001111.]

7. cosrs IN clvn. GAS!-23.1‘
See. 160. Costs in slander cams.
An Act for the limitation of actions amlfor avoiding suits at Qlaw.
Approved March 26, 1767’. Vol. I. 33.
[For the other sections of this Act, see Art. XV. “Limitation of

Actions.”]
In Hllndﬂ.
160. Sec. VIII. In all actions upon the case for slanderous words,
t‘li';lr¢;ll)nr:’hil- to be sued or prosecuted by any person or persons in the General
,,..,,;. cm, Court in this provmce, or in any other Court havmg power to hold
25;“ ““'“" plea of the same, after the passing of this Act, if the Jury upon the
trial of the issue in such action, or the Jury that shall inquire of the
damages, do ﬁnd or assess the damage under forty shillings, then the
plaintifff or plznntilﬁ in such action shall have and recover only so
much costs as the damages so given or assessed amount unto, with
out any further increase of the same, any law, statute, custom, or
usage to the contrary in any wise notwithstanding."
dlrnues un
‘See next Act.
1-For the Acts regulating fees of different officers, see title "Fees."
Asto judgment for costs in proceedings to enforce liens, see Art. XIV. “ Liens,"
sec. 330.
For Act regulating costs of Solicitor General acting, and former Solicitors, see “I’ees,“
62.

(1.) In a1lrespects[us to amendments, &c.] the same as acnse on appeal. I Kelly, 306.
(2.) See 5 Ga. 462.
Liability of Attorne)'—-"erdicts under $30.

Judiciary Act of 1799.

Vol. I. 292.

161. Sec. XXVI. * *. And if any party, plaintifff or defendant, '1‘-‘it-DI|>_:lty fr;
be hereafter non-suited or cast, by reason of the neglect or l]1lSCOl'l-coals. y
duct of the Attorney who shall hereafter bring or be employed in
such suit, in all cases the said Attorney shall pay all costs that may
accrue thereby, and the Court shall immediately enter up judgment
accordingly for the same.*
An Act to amend the XX I/'Izh section of the Judimhry Law of this
Srute.—Approved Dec. 12, 1809. Vol. II. 573.
VVhcrea-s, a practice has been adopted, and now prevails in some
parts of this State, of bringing suits to the Superior and Inferior
Courts for debts which constitutionally are, and by law ought to be
exclusively cognizable in the Justices’ Courts, which practice is in
jurious and oppressive on many of the good citizens of this State, by
subjecting them to more cost than was contemplated by the Consti
tution and Judiciary Laws of this State ; for remedy whereof,
162. Be it ertactcd, <§-c. That where any suit shall be brought to On "mum
t.he Superior or Inferior Courts in this State, and the verdict of the §l°:, 2:;

Jury shall be for a sum under $30, the defendant shall not be charged,‘,-',‘,1€‘,{,':,':,A
with more cost than would have necessarily accrued : Provided, said
recovery had been before a Justice of the Peace ; and the remainder
of the Court charges may be retained out of the sum so recovered;
and if the verdict of the Jury be not of sufficient amount, the plain
tiff shall be bound to pay the same ; Provided, this Act shall not extend to, and govern cases where the demand set forth in the decla
ration, shall be proven to exceed the sum of $30.

Provided, noth

ing herein contained shall extend to any case sounding in damages.

An Ar:t‘|' to amend and ez']1lu2'/t the XXIX»/t section of the Jlttliciary
Law of this Slate.-—Approved Dec. 7, 1812. Vol. III. 381.
lVhereas, the above-recited section of the Judiciary Law of this

State is not suﬂicicntly explicit to ell'ect the object for which it was
intended,
163. See. I. Be it there/‘ore enacted, dw. That where any attor- M,,,,.,,,.,.,,u_
ney shall institute a suit in any of the Courts of this State for and in ,“,‘,’$‘,‘,{§,"""
behalf of any person or persons who resides or reside out of this State, ::I';'::,f;;'n"‘:
or out of the County in which the defendant or defendants may re'
side, and in which such suit may be tried, such attorney shall be li
able to pay all costs, in case such suit shall be dismissed, or the plain- ,,,,,,,,,,.,
tiff or plaiutiifs be cast in his, her, or their suit, and it shall be law- ‘hey '°’“

ful for the Clerk of said Court to issue execution against said attor
ney or attorneys for the amount of the cost of said suit.
‘Amended, sec. 163.
Liability of .-\ttorne_vs—Costs on levying ﬁ. fa.—Cos’ts when paid,

164. SEC. II. 1/Vhere any attorney shall institute a suit in any of
the Counties of this State for any person who resides out of the Coun
ty in which such suit is brought, and judgment shall be obtained
thereon, and the Sheriff shall return the execution, no property to be
found, that then the plaintifff’s attorney shall be bound. for the costs
or gain their of said suit and the Clerk may issue his execution against the plain

'“"'

tiff and the attorney who brought said suit jointly, for the amount of

Must my

the cost of such suit; and if any attorney shall retain in his hands

over client’!

mom-v crho an Y mone Y received b Y him for an Y client
beinCr b the Court
,
7 after
:L§,jj{"'m ordered
to pay over the same to the principal,
he shall Dbe Ystruck from

the list of attorneys, and never more suffered to plead in any of the
Courts in this State.

An Act to prevent Sherijfs, Coroncrs, Constables, Town and City
Marshals, and all other Oﬂir.-ers in this State, from retaining costs
on younger judgments, to the prejudice of the rights ofolderjudg
1nentcred2'tors.—Approved Dec. 19, 1822. Vol. IV. 211.
Casts not to 165. When any Sheriff, Coroner, Constable, Town or City Mar
he ' d
. State, has several executions
.
. his
. hands
0ﬂll;°;'?IIll1I:\;:01'Sha.l,
or other oﬁicer of this
111

I1§.,'§"Z,;‘.’,",'fj“' at the same time against the same defendant, it shall not be lawful
f‘“c‘;',§",§f7y_ for such officer to detain the costs on any younger judgments to the
i‘;'e!~;l~}S"i§'Ig_1d- prejudice of those of older date, except in a case of a younger judg
¢MIment creditor shall previous to older ones point out property to
the officer; then it may and shall be lawful for the oﬁicer to retain
the levy and advertising costs, and no more, on such younger judg
ment.

An Act to dqﬁnc the mode in which costs under the Act entitled “ An
Act to revise and amend an Act for asccrtairting the fees of the
public ojicers of this State, passed 18th Dec. 1792,” shall be tax
ed and collected infuture.—-Approved Dec. 20, 1834. Pam. 93.
Wltereas, in some Circuits of this State a variety of practice, in re
lation to the taxation and collection of costs, has obtained under the

above recited Act ; for the purpose of rendering the mode uniform and
consistent with the design of the Legislature in said enactment—
§;‘;f$ﬂ'c‘,°§i|,
_166. Be it enaetcd, That from and after the passing of this Act
3;:ll'1ds- suitors shall not be requned to pay the Court costs, or any part thereof,
at the several progressive steps or stages of their suits, as has been
required by the decision of some of the Courts; but that the mode
heretofore practised in other Courts, viz. the taxation of the costs
which plaintifffs were supposed to have paid to the entering up of
judgment, in the judgment of the plaintiﬁ's—be, and the same is
hereby declared to be the true intent and meaning of the Act of N92
upon this subject; and that the oilicers of Courts be, and they are
hereby prohibited from demanding or receiving the cost or fees which
the said fees bill or the Acts amendatory thereof prescribes, until after
judgment, and then to be raised by the execution of plaintifffs from
Liability of non-resident Attorney—Unitorm mode of taking and collecting costs.

defendants, if enough can be collected for such purpose; if not, then
by a)3. fa. or ca sa. issued under the order of the Court ﬁrst had and
obtained, out of plaintiﬂ's.*
Sec. II. All laws or parts of laws militating against any of the
provisions or directions of this Act are hereby repealed.

;;in Act to continue in force the Act passed on the seventh of .l)ccemF
ber, 1812, entitled “ an Act to amend and explain the twenty-ninth
section of the Judiciary Law of this State,” and to require non
. resident Attorneys to pay costs in certain cases commenced by them.
Assented to December 23, 1839. Pam. 144.
Whereas, it is held, in some of the Judicial Circuits of this State,
that the said Act, so far as the same relates to the liability‘ of attor
neys for costs, has been repealed by the Act passed on the twentieth
of December, 1834, entitled “an Act to deﬁne the mode in which
cost under the Act entitled “an Act to revise and amend an Act for
ascertaining the fees of public oﬂicers of this State,” passed the 18th
December, 1792, shall be taxed and collected in future,” which re
peal was not comtemplated by the Legislature; thereforee—
167. See. I. Be it enacted, That the said ﬁrst recited Act, be, M! M181‘:

and the same is hereby fully re-enacted, and continued in full force. 'Mm‘°d'
168. Sac. II It shall and maybe lawful for the proper officers to Non-res?
demand and receive their full costs from any attorney who resides L‘-'§,',‘1‘|“§,;Y

out of this State, before they shall be bound to perform any service 5:134“ ad‘
in any cause commenced by said attorney, where the plaintifff shall
reside out of this State, or any County thereof.

An Act to amend an Act to deﬁne the mode in which costs under the
- Act entitled an Act to revise and amend an Act for ascertaining
the fees of the public oﬂieers of this State, passed the 18th of De
cember, 1792, assented to 20th December, 1834, shall be taxed and

collected in fulure.—Assented to 27th December, 1842.

Pam. 59.

IV/wreas, In some of the Circuits of this State, a variety of prac
tice in relation to the taxation and collection of costs, has obtained,

under the above recited Acts; for the purpose of rendering the mode
and practice uniform and consistent with the design of the Legisla
ture in said enactments,

169. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of f,?;';’vh°"
this Act, suitors shall not be required to pay the Court costs, or, any nvoni Ml
part thereof at the several progressive steps or stages of their suits, as 0
has been required by the decisions of some of the Courts ; but that
the mode heretofore practised in other Courts, viz. : the taxation of
the costs which plaintifffs were supposed to have paid to the entering
up of judgment, in the judgment of the plaintifffs, be, and the same

is hereby declared to be the true intent a11d meaning of the Act of
‘Order of Court dispensed with by Act of 1842, see. 169.
Uniform mode of taking and collecting costs—Exec-ution, lllegality, &c.

seventeen hundred and ninety-two, upon this subject, and that the
officers of Courts be, and they are hereby prohibited from demand
ing or receiving the costs or fees, which the said fees bill, or the
Acts amendatory thereof prescribés, until after judgment, and then
to be raised by execution of plaintifffs from defendants, if enough can
mi how 1101- be collected for such purpose; if not, then upon the return of the
len\e4.
_ﬁ. fa. or_ﬁ.fas. against defendants with the entry of nulla bona en
dorsed thereon, by the proper oﬁicer,fa. or ca. sa. shall immediate
ly issue against plaintiﬂ's, for the purpose of making costs out of
plaintifffs.
Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against any of the
provisions or directions of this Act be, and the same are hereby re
pealed.
Possession of land to purchaser.
Purcbaserof mortgaged property.
Or life estate; Bond.
Or a re-sale.

‘See “Equity Jurisdktion," &:c. sec. 66 of thistitle, as to decrees for speciﬁc per
formance and urit of possession thereon.
Asto execution for or against partners, See Art. XIX. "Partners," &c. 426.

As to execution against principal and sureties on administrator's, guardian‘s, &c. bond,
see Art. 111. " Action,” “ Parties," sec. 102.

Assignment of execution; see Art. 111. subdivision, “Verdicts, Judgments," 8:0.
sec. 143.

For Act authorizing judgment crcditorto take out grants for the purpose of selling
imderexecution, see title “ Land," sec. 193.
Tax executions, see title " Tux."

Executions against corporations, individual stockholders and illegality thereto, see
Art. X. “ Corporations," secs. 277, 281.
As to sales of lots before the grant issues, see title “ Laud," secs. 113. 128.

For Act requiring the reservation of Uburying grounds" at sales, see “ Penal Laws,”
sec. 361.

For Act abolishing imprisonment for debt as far asfcmér sole and widows are concern»
ed, see ante. "Insolvent Debtors,” sec. 39.

As to executions on proceedings to enforce liens, ICC Art. XIV. “ Liens."
Asto duty of Sheriff to return executions satisﬁed, and his docket, sec Art. XVIh
" Oiiieers of Court," secs. 374, 375.

Executions against indorsers must specify the contract; see Art. XXI. “ Sureties and
Indorsera,” sec. 447.
For Act in relation to advertisement of sales, see Art. XVII. “ Oﬂiocrs of Court,”
seen. 888, 389.

As to purchases by Sheriff and Deputy, see Art. XVII. Oﬂiccrs," &c. sec. 390.
Jmliciar-_1/ Act Q/' 'lT99—Vol. I. 292.
[Re-enacted with amendments, by Act of 1811,
170. Sec. XXXII. In all cases where execution shall issue illegal- illegality in
ly, and the person against whom such execution may be, shall make oath °‘~°°““°'“'
thereof, and shall state the causes of such illegality, such Sheriff shall
return the same to the next term of the Court out of which the same
issued, which Court shall determine thereon, at such term.‘'‘‘1 [The
residue of this section relates to claims, and is superseded by the
Act of 1821: see see. 249, &c.]
171. Sec. XXXIII. No sales in future shall be made by Sher- ssrF.i>,m<

iffs of property taken under execution, but on the ﬁrst Tuesday in '|:l’.,‘:.",',".,¢
each month, and between the hours of ten and three in the daygL and “""'~
it shall be the duty of the Sheriffs to give thirtydays’ notice in one
of the public gazettes of the State, of all sales of lands and other prop
erty executed by him, and also advertise the same in three of the
most public places in the County where such sales are to be made,
and shall give a full and. complete description of the property to be
sold, making known the name of the defendant, and the person who
may be in possession of the property, except horses, hogs, and cattle, Bnleefliva

-Which may be sold at any time, by the consent of the defendant ; and "'°°"'
in which case it shall be his duty to give the plaintifff ten days’ no
tice thereof, and also to advertise the same in three or more of the
most public places in the County where such property may be, at
least ten days before the sale.

An Act pointing out the duty of Sheriﬂs, in selling lands under ere
wtz'on.—Approved Dec. 22, 1808.

Vol. II. 454.

172. Sec. I. It shall hereafter be the duty of the Sheriff's of the \Yrlttun M.
several Counties in this State, when they levy any execution on land, §,'.°§,.‘.‘; .3”
to leave a written notice of the said levy with the owner, if in the Coun- '°““"“
ty, or tenant in possession, if any, or transmit the same to him, her
or them, in ﬁve days after such levy.

[But see sec. 176, as to writs

of possession, explaining this Act.]

173. SEc,~.II.

It shall not hereafter be lawful for any Sheriff rings.‘

within this State, to levy upon or sell any land which licsout of the ].,,d,,,.,, or

County of which he is Sheriff; any thing in any law to the contra- M” "'°“""'
ry notwithstanding.I
Sec. III. [Directing Sheriffs to advertise in their respective cir
cuits. Superseded by Act of 1850; see Art. XVII. “ Oflicers,” 6ec.
sec. 388.]
‘See further astn illegality, Acts of 1833, 18-15, 1850. As to stay of execution, see
" Verdict, Stay of 1-lrrccution," &c.
'
1"'l‘er1 A. M. and four r. u. by Act of 1821, see. 177.
ﬂint see Act of 18H, sec. 196, as to land divided by County lines.

( 1.) A second affidavit will not be received after the first is determined. 2 rwlly, 367,
It does not lie for grounds existing prior-to the judgment. 7 Ga. 206. Nor can the
validity of the judgment be attacked. 8 Ga. 144:.
Execution, how issued and lcvicd—Ca. sa.

An Act to amend the thirty-ﬁrst section ofthe Judiciary Act of 1799.
Approved Dec. 14, 1811. Vol. III. 378.
”°°““°“'174. Snc. I. All' executions shall be issued and signed by the
hmv issued
an<l1evied- Clerks of the several Courts in which judgments shall be ob- ‘
tained, and bear teste in the name of one of the Judges or presiding
Justices of such Courts, and shall bear date from the time of issuing,
shall be directed to all and singular the Sheriffs of this State, and
may be levied on the estate both real and personal,1 of the defendant
or defendants, or issue against the body of the defendant at the op
tion of the plaintifff, which execution shall be‘ of full force until
satisﬁed, without being obliged to be renewed on the Court roll from
"’°"""” in year to year as heretofore practised. And when the defendant shall
the defend

:i:;:*ﬂI;f§- point out any property on which to levy the execution, being in the

bstakcn.

hands and possession of any person not a party to such judgment, I
the Sheriff shall not levy thereon, but shall proceed to levy on such
property as may be found in the hands and possession of the defend
ant, who shall nevertheless be at liberty to point out what part of his
property he may think proper, which the Sheriff shall be bound to
take and sell ﬁrst, if the same is in the opinion of the Sheriff sulﬁ
cient to satisfy such judgment.
*
,‘,,lf'§‘,°f,°(){’,,,”';_ 175. SEC. II. Where any execution shall have issued or may
§_-f‘;'1£‘{Le.f¢ hereafter issue against the body* of any defendant, and the same
shall not have been satisﬁed, it shall be lawful for an execution to
issue against the property 01 such defendant or defendants on the
return of said execution, which had been issued against the body of
the said defendant or defendants. And that when an execution
ivqred uplo against the body of any defendant shall have been served, the party

§:_“°"' am‘ on whom the same shall have been served, shall be released, Prom‘
ded, he, she, or they, shall deliver to the officer serving the same,

the property which shall, in the opinion of such oﬁicer, be suffr
cient to discharge the debt and all costs, and give sufficient security
to the said oﬁicer that the property so delivered is bona ﬁde the prop
erty of the defendant or defendants, and subject to the discharge of
the said debt. In which case the oﬂiccr shall return the execution
,‘]T:jf:'\§fi*“‘:B so issued against the body of the defendant or defendants, and take
;‘;full P1'->lK3l'- out an execution against the property of such defendant or defend
‘
ants, and proceed to advertise and sell the property so delivered up
to satisfy such execution heretofore practised.
An Act to alter and explain the first section of the Act of Dec. 99,
1808, (see sec. 1T2,&c.)-—Approvcd Dec. 16, 1811. Vol. III. 140.
176. SEC. H1‘

The ﬁrst section of the before recited Act shall

D *bAs to prison bounds, and discharge under honest debtor's Act, see title "II1s0lY0nt
c tors."
TFO: sec.I see “County OtIiccrs,”scc. 14.

(1.) An undivided interest in personalty may be sold. 2 Kelly, 73.
Cannot be issued until four days after the a;ljournme11't of the Court. 5 Ga. 6-L
How far a levy is satisfaction, considered.

6 Ga. 393, 410.

crcss in land and as a co-distributor.-, may be levied on and sold.

The interest of a dow

6 Ga. 463.
\Vrits of possession—Hours of su1e—Sale of bank and other stock by Sheriff.

not be so construed as to authorize any Judge of the Superior Writsot
Courts to order writs of possession to issue against a third person re- I’§ﬁ°§‘L‘{";,

siding within the limits of any such survey or tract of land so offered ag“"‘’‘‘
_
'
slralIg_('l's to
for sale: Promded also, that such person shall not be known in the 2;: mg who
suit on which such execution is founded, nor have been put in posses- stragglfrsdm
the 0 en sion by, or claimed under or by virtue of any conveyance from the MM,
uu°_
defendant in such _suit.*
'
'

An Act to alter and amend the thirty-third section ofan Act, entitled
“ An Act to revise and amend the Judicz'ar_y system ofthis State,”
passed 16th February, 1799, so far as relates to the hours Q/'She1'
i s’ and Constables’ Sales.—Approved Dec. 21, 1821. Vol. IV.
208.
IV/lereas, the hours of Sheriifs’ and Constables’ sales are thought
to be too short, and attended with great inconvenience to the Sher—
iﬁ's and Constables, and frequently to the injury of parties concerned;
for remedy whereof,
177. Be it enacted, That from and after the passing of this Act, The hmlrsof
the hours of Sheriffs’ and Constables’ sales will be from ten o’clock §’§i,‘_‘ff,|‘,f,","
in the forenoon until four o’clock in the afternoon; all laws and f)?‘f§c‘,“'°",‘:1:,‘I

parts of laws militating against this Act, be, and the same are here-40’¢1-)%
by repealed

An Act to make Bank and other Stock subject to Erecutz'on.—Ap~
proved Dec. 21, 1822. Vol. IV. 71.
178.

From and after the passing of this Act, the shares or stock Bank Mk

owned by any person in any of the banks or other corporations in :f§,"dj",f,‘“YéI'°
this State, shall be subject to be sold by the Sheriff or his Deputy, °‘°°“li““
under execution.
179. SEC. II. VVhen any Sheriff or his Deputy shall have P13.-Shnllhesold
ced in his hands any execution against any person who owns any ?.‘1§.;Lf_“'° M
stock or shares in any of the banks or corporations of this State, it
shall be lawful, and he is hereby required, on application of the
plaintiff, his agent or attorney, to endorse on said execution a levy of
the number of shares belongincbr to the defendant, and after adverti
sing the same agreeably to the law regulating Sheriffs’ sales, shall
thereafter proceed to sell the said shares or stock: Provz'dcrl always,
that he shall set up one share at a time, and shall sell no more than
is sufficient to satisfy the amount of executions then in his hands.
180. SEC. III. When any Constable shall have any execution (‘onstnfiles
placed in his hands against any person who is the owner of any fff‘L,"L‘;‘;,
shares or stock in any bank or other corporation in this State, it shall '° emu"
be lawful, and he is hereby required, on the application of the plain
tiﬁ‘, his agent or attorney, to endorse a levy on said execution or
‘Sgt: further as to writs of possession, sec. 184. On decrees for speciﬁc performance,
see ante. A.rt.1I. “Equity 'Jurisdiction,” &c. sec. 66.
Sale of bank and other stock by Shcriﬂ‘—Possession to purchaser.

executions in like manner ; and it sl1all be his duty to make return
of the same to the Sheriff of the County in Which he lives, which
said Sheriff shall proceed to sell as pointed out by the second section
of this bill.
csqncmw 181. Sec. IV. “Then the Sheriff or his Deputy shall sell any

M ‘"2"’

shares in any bank or other corporation in this State, he shall give a
certiﬁcate of such sale to the purchaser.
182. Sec. V. The ofﬁcer of the bank or other corporation,
whose duty it may be to make transfers of stock on the books of the
bank or other corporation, shall, and he is hereby required to make
a transfer of the stock purchased under this Act, to the purchaser of
the same, upon his, her, or their producing_ certiﬁcate or certiﬁcates

to the said oﬂicer.1
No transfer
183. Sec. VI. Any transfer made by the defendant of his bank
md° by “"l or other stock, after judgment obtained against him or her, shall be
dc l"cm‘lant

f_",,',,’,‘,“',,‘f,"“’“‘i/'oi(l: .Provided, that notice of the obtainment of such judgment
I"°¢

be served on the cashier of such principal bank, or any of its branch—
es, or the proper oﬁiccr of such other corporation, within twenty
days after said judgment is obtained.

An Art to compel Shcr1'ﬂ's and Coroners to deliver possession ofReal
Estate sold by them under e.z'ecut'i0ns lo the purchaser, his or her
agcnt or attorney.—Approved Dec. 23, 1823. Vol. IV. 405.
rm ‘ no

184.

When any Sheriff or Coroner shall sell any real estate by

,',‘;‘{',,,‘,',,§“§,"‘v'irtue of and under the authority of any execution, it shall be the

P“ M
.:.n,__\¢.
"°"‘“

duty of such Sheriff or Coroner (as the case may be,) upon applica
tion, to put the purchaser, his or her agent or attorney, in possession
of the real estate sold: Provided, that this Act shall not authorize the
oﬂiccr making the -sale to turn out any other person than the defend
ant in execution, his heirs, or their tenants, if such other person
were in possessionat the term of the rendition of the judgment;
or if such person has acquired such possession under the judgment
of a Court of Competent jurisdiction, or claim under the person or
persons acquiring such right by the judgment of such Court.“
MSec ante. Act of 1811, see. 176.

See also “Tax,” 27.

(1.) ‘Yhcrc stock was sold with notice of alien, the transfer cannot be obtained until
that lien is discharged. 1 Kelly, 43.

(‘.l.) The widow of defendant, claiming dower, cannot be dispossessed of the mansion
house. 3 Kelly, 207. If the tenant is ‘Qt dispossessed before the officer selling goes out
of oﬂice, it must be done by order of Court, with notice to the tenant.

4 Ga. 193.

If the purchaser agrees for tenant to retain possession, he cannot afterwards require
the Sheriff to dispossess. 4 Ga. 193.
If the Sheriff is about to disposscss one not a tenant of defendant, an injunction will
not be granted except under special circumstances. 6 Ga. 576.
A lessee older than the judgment cannot be dispossessed. 6 Ga. 423.
Purchaser of mortgaged property and life estates—Liability of purchaser.

An Act to compel purchasers Q/l mortgaged property,/, ]7llTChﬂ8B7‘S of life
estates, or estatesfor term of years, in personal property, at Sher1ﬁ"’s,
Coroner's or Constable’s sales, to give bond.—Approved Dec. 22,
185. From and after the passage of this Act, it shall be the du- Pun!-nan
ty of purchasers of personal property, under the encumbrance of .‘lli‘.-".’.'r'°
mortgage, or mortgages, at any Sheriff ’s, Coroner-’s, [or] Constable’s ',f,1‘,’,f,‘,‘-’,,§°“
sale, to give bond and security, to the said Sheriﬁ‘, Coroner, or Con- f§:,Y’,“§“f";e
stable, in double the value of the property so sold, (of which the of'-l>'r>"'1°'\‘>ﬂm

ﬁcer selling shall be the judge,) conditioned not to move said prop- 0 maps“
erty out of said State, and deliver up the same to the mortgagee,
his heirs or assigns, on demand made after foreclosure of said mort
gage or mortgages: Provided, the mortgagee, his agent, or attorney,
shall tender an aﬁidavit, previous to the sale thereof, to the officer
selling said property, stating that he, she, or they are just and bona
ﬁde mortgagees thereof, and that he, she or they, apprehend the loss
of said property, unless bond be given in terms of this Act.
186. Sec. II. “lhen any person shall purchase at any Sheriff ’s, Also pur
Coroner’s or Constable’s sale, a life estate, or an estate for term of1','},“,‘:f,{§,‘,,;°§,,,
years in personal property, it shall be the duty of said Sheriif, §"n'f,:'§,‘“‘Y»
Coroner or Constable, to require of said purchaser, bond and securi- mm
ty as aforesaid, for the delivery of said property to the party entitled
in remainder: Provided, the same is required by said party, his agent
or attorney, who shall make atﬁdavit of their right to said property,
which shall be tendered to the ofﬁcer selling, previous to sale, which
bonds when taken, shall be ﬁled in the Clerk’s ofﬁce of the Supcri- B,,,,,,,,

or Court of the County where said sale is made, subject to be sued “'“°‘° 5"":
on, for the beneﬁt and use of the said party, whenever the particular
estate is determined, which said Court shall have power on sufficient
cause shown, to compel said obligor, to give additional security, Additiunaljl

from time to time, as justice may require, on ten days’ previous notice "’°“'“"' 3
being givenf“=
187. Sec. III. On failure of said purchaser to give bond and Orbgwiwrm
security as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the said Sheriff, Coronerw M0
or Constable, to re-sell the said property, at the risk and loss of such
purchaser.
Sec. IV. All laws or parts of laws, militating against this Act
are hereby repealed.

An Act defining the liability of purchasers of Real and Personal
Estate, at ereczttors’, admiinistrators,’ guardians’ and Sheriﬂs’
sales, when they refuse or fail to comply with the terms of such
sales.-—Approved Dec. 27, 1831. Pam. 130.

188.

From and after the passage of this Act, any individual who

'Remaindermen and reversioriers may obtain writs of ne exeat; see Art. V. “ Cartie

nri, Ne Exeat,” 81¢. Sﬂ»_232.
Liability of pu.rahaser—\Vriting unn0cusary—Growing crops—I1legality in Execution.

mrma_un may become the purchaser of any real or personal estate at any sale
:‘.r:,':"‘;.. which shall hereafter be made at public outcry by any executor, ad
§‘-.',‘,‘,"k§,"" ministrator, guardian or Sheriff, and shall fail or refuse to comply with
}f:’:,‘;r,,'e‘,‘{’,1§ the terms of such sale when required so to do, shall be liable for the
213213;“! amount of such purchase money, and it shall beat the option of such
--“mare executor, administrator, guardian or Sheriff, either to proceed against
such purchaser, for the full amount of the purchase money, or to re
sell such real or personal estate, and then to proceed against the ﬁrst
purchaser, for the deﬁciency arising from such re-sa.le,1 and in cast
of Sheriffs’ sales, such suit may be brought in the name of the
Sheriff for the use of the defendant or plaintifff in execution, or any

other person in interest, as the case may be.
Humor

189. Sec. II.

No note or memorandum in writing, shall be ne

:',1',Y,“,',',T,','.; cessary to charge such purchaser at such sale, and who shall become

°°“"“"'

such by reason of such real or personal estate being knocked off to
him, as the highest bidder.
All laws or parts of laws militating against this Act,

are hereby repealed.
An Act to prevent »S‘her2_'ﬂ's and other Ojﬁcers, from levying on and
selling growhrg crops, except in certain cases.-l—Approved Dec. 29,
1836.
Pam. 251.
Growing
190. See. I. From and immediately after the: passage of this
crops not to
M
wk, ,.,,,,. Act, no Sheriff or other oﬁicer, shall hereafter levy on any grow"

51:2,?’ “‘°ing crop of corn, wheat, oats, rye, potatoes, cotton, rice, or any
Proviso. .

other crop usually raised or cultivated by the planters or farmers of
this State, nor sell the same until the said crop or crops shallbe
come matured or ﬁt to be gathered :9 Provided, this Act shall HO‘
prevent any of said ofﬁcers from levying on and selling crops,”
heretofore practised, when the debtor or debtors shall abscond or ft

inoge from the State or County, not from selling growing crops with
an .

Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this M
be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend the thirty-second section of the Judicr'a_ry sysiﬂ" "f
this State, passed the 16th day of February 1799, so far as H‘
lates to illegality in e.recutr'ons.—Assented to Dec. 28, 1338

Pam. 145.
Iltegallry,
191. See. I. Be it enacled, Thai from and immediately am’-Y
23:’ ""“"‘ the passage of this Act, when any person against whom an exec”
tron shall issue illegally, shall make oath thereof, and Shall state

the cause of such illegality, the Sheriff shall return the same to ‘he
. (1.) This Act ousts Equity of juz-isdiction—the rizmedy being ample. 5 Go. 400
(2.) A growing crop, after it is laid by, and before maturity, passes to the Pmhm
0! the land.
Forthcoming bond—Levy—Discharge of debtor from ca. sa.—Rc1ief of Oﬂicers.
next term of the Court from which such execution issued: Provided,
that the person alleging such illegality, shall also deliver to the Sheriff, £,‘:_]b°°m1lIl
or other lawful officer, a bond with good and suﬂicient security con‘
ditioned for the delivery of the property levied on, at the time and
place of sale, in the event of the causes or grounds of the alleged il
legality being overruled by the Court, and not otherwise ; and in all
7 cases it shall be the duty of the Sheriff or other oﬁicers, to levy on {:v.vm~w=
property, where any can be found, before receiving such afﬁdavit."“
“"""“
Sec. II. All laws or parts of laws, repugnant to this ;Act, be
and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to alter and amend the ninth section of the Jzuliciary Act of
1799, and the ﬁrst section of an Act relative to executions, passed De
cember 14, 1811.-—Asscnted to Dec. 22, 1840. Pam. 114.
See. I. [Process against Sheriff; sec “Commencement, doc.
Action,” sec. 75.]
'
Secs. II. and III. [Re-enacted with amendments, in 1847; see
secs. 198, 199.]
192. Sec. IV. When said process or execution shall be served or Elm-lﬂimn
levied by a Sheriﬁ‘, out of his own County, that the Sheriff so serving
and returning the same, shall receive in addition to the fees established
by law for such service or levy, the sum of two dollars.T
Sec. V. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act
he and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to be entitled an Act to authorize the plaintiﬂ in all cases of ar
rest under a eapias ad satis_/aciendum, to discharge the rlefendantfrom

imprisonment. andfor his 1rro]7e1'ty still to be bound ‘for the debt,
Assented to Dec. 9, 1843.

Pam. 120,
I

193. See. I.

Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of ‘lltlrlwlgs at

this Act, in any case where a debtor has been arrested under an exe- ¢:aiii..rlm=

cutiou against the body, and is afterwards discharged from such im-,'}§’,‘JQ§,Z"
prisonment, either by the authority of the plaintifff or otherwise,
without the debt being paid, that such arrest and discharge shall not
operate asa satisfaction of the debt, but the debtor’s property shall
still be liable to the judgment as though no arrest had been made—
any usage, custom or law to the contrary notwithstanding : Provided
always, that the oﬁicer making such arrest, shall endorse on such ex- gnd.m'L
ecution, that the defendant is discharged from arrest without having "” °‘“°“‘

paid the amount due.
An Act for the relief of Sltcrzgfs, Coroners, Constables, and other
0ﬂice7‘8 of the State of Georgia.-—Assented to Dec. 9, 1843. Pam.
31.

194. Sec. 1.

Be it enacted, That whenever any oﬂicer shall an

‘See Act of 1845; lee 195.
1P0: fees generally, see title " Foes."
Relief of Oﬁicers—lllegality—Lands divided by County lines.

officermade rest a defendant on a capias ad satisfaciendum, and said defendant shall

LLLM;.,M anmake his escape, and said oﬁicer shall be compelled to pay the amount
due on said capias, by reason of said escape, the Sheriff, Coroner,
"H" "M Constable or other ofﬁcer, as the case may be, shall have the control
wntml of
I-fa
of the ﬁen fac1as issued, or to be issued on the Judgment upon which
said capias ad satisfaciendum is founded, for the purpose of reim
bursing himself out of the property of defendant ; and the said
Sheriff, Coroner, Constable or other oﬁicer, as the case may be, shall
control said ﬁeri facias in as full and ample a manner, for the purpose
of said reimbursement, as the plaintifff in said ﬁeri facias might or could
do, or could have done, had said capias ad satisfaciendum not have is
sued, or had the money due on said judgment not have been paid by
0111" of °’I- said Sheriff, Coroner, Constable or other oﬂicer; Provided, that the
Court by whose order or judgment such oﬂicer shall be required to
pay the amount due, shall pass an order giving such control.
Sec. II. That all laws and parts of laws militating against this
Act, he and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act in relation to aﬁidavits (J Illegalit_z/.—Approved Dec. 27',

1845.
llzenfiilllg)
195. See. I. Be it enacted, That when any affidavit of. illegali
éi _{lr.Jnr.ytY shall be ﬁled in terms of the law, for the purpose of staying
proceedings when an execution is levied on property, the property
so levied on shall be subject to levy and sale under other executions,
and the officer making the ﬁrst levy, shall claim, receive, hold and
retain such an amount of the proceeds of sale as the Court shall
deem snﬂicient to pay the execution ﬁrst levied, including interest
up to the time of the Court at, which said illegality shall be deter
Condinon. mined, and any bond given by the defendant on .ﬁling such aﬂida
vit, shall be released and discharged, so faras relates to the property

sold.

‘

An Act to enable Shcrzfs 01‘ Coroners to sell tracts of land divided by
a County line.—Approved Dec. 25, 1847. Pam. 282.
Saleofland
196. SEC. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
:.',I'l'§ifyd|il,',y.,,, this Act, where judgment shall be obtained against any debtor own

lpothcr

ing' a tract or tracts of land divided by a County line or County lines,
it shall and may be lawful for the ﬁheriff or Coroner of the County
to levy on and sell the whole of said tract or tracts of land, notwith
standing part of said tract or tracts of land may lie in Counties of
which he is not Sheriff or Coroner.*
197'. Sec. II. Where any judgment debtor shall own any tract

li,°a'Q“§Y,;.__ or tracts of land divided by a County line or County lines, and no
or’s Y€al~
“wag
part of such lands shall lie in the County [of his residence,] it shall and
‘Similar provision as to Administrators, &c. See “Executor-s, Administrators, 8-.c.”
sec. 146.
Executions, &e. by and against Sheriﬂ'—.Bond for titles.
may be lawful for the Sheriff or Coroner of either County in which
part of said tract or tracts of land may lie, to levy on and sell the
whole of said tract or tracts of land.
Sec. III. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act be
and the same are hereby repealed.
An Act to alter and amend an Act passed 22d of Dec. 1840, entitled
“ An Act to alter and amend the 9th section of the Judiciary Act of
1799, and the ﬁrst section of an Act relative to Erccu/ions, passul
Dec. 14, 1811;” and to provide for the en_/b1'cemcnt(fjuclgmcnt
against [and sold and bondfor titles given.--Approved Dec. 29, 1847'.
Pam. 201.
198. See. I.

Be it enacted, That the second section of this Act, Execution

of which this is amendatory, be amended so as to read as follows: ihddadvldradlbl
all
“ Sec.
executions,
2. And be
orders,
it further
decreesI
enacted
attachments
by the authority
for contempt,
aforesaid,
and all
That
ﬁ

nal process hereafter issued by the Clerks of the Superior and Inferi
or Courts, in favor of or against any Sheriff of this State, shall be di
rected to the Coroner of the County in which said Sheriff may re
side, and to all and singular the Sheriffs of the State, except the Sher
iff of the County in which the interested Sheriff may reside, which
may be levied, served and returned by the said Coroner or other
Sheriff, at the option of the plaintifff or party seeking to have the ac
tion of said oﬁicer or oiﬁcers.”*
199. Sec. II. The third section of the Act of which this is Levyand

amendatory, shall be so amended as hereafter to read and be as fol- :,",‘n‘},_““d°'
lows: “ Sec. Ill. And be it further enacted, That when a Sheriff
shall levy on property by virtue of any execution directed and re
quired by the second section of this Act, (as hcreinbefore amended,)
said property shall be sold in the County in which the levy may be
made, and that whenever any decree, order, ca. sa. attachment for
contempt or ﬁnal process, directed as required by the second section of
this Act, (as now arnended,) shall be placed in the hands of any Sher
iff, and under and by virtue of said process, it shall become the duty,
under the laws of this State, of said Sheriff to imprison any defend- Arrest m_
ant or other delinquent, it shall be lawful for said Sheriff to arrest
the delinquent wherever found, and it shall be his duty to imprison
him or her, either in the County where the arrest was made, or in
the County where the arresting Sheriff may reside, at the option of
the plaintifff or other person so requiring the services of said Sheriff.
200. Sec. III. When any judgment has been or shall be render- sm when
ed, in any of the Courts of this State, upon any note or other evi- :'|°.."““{,‘,:,,‘_"
dence of debt, given for the purchase of land, where titles have not
been made, but bond for titles given, it shall and may be lawful for
the obligor in said bond to make and ﬁle, and have recorded in the
‘For former Act of 1812 on this subject, see Art. XVII. “ Officers of Court," sec. 379.
See also see. 205, Actof 1850, authorizing Constables to levy and sell.
As to service of process, see sec. 74 of this title.
Amending Illcgnlity—Sale where bond for titles given.
..._...,_.._—_-__-_-_-__-—_—--_-___-_
Clerk’s office of the Superior Court of the County, a good and sulﬁ
cient deed of conveyance, to the defendant for said land ; and there
upon the same may be levied on and sold under said judgment as in
other czises :"' Provided, That the said judgment shall take lien upon
the land prior to any other judgment or encumbrance against the de
fendant.
An Act in relation to aﬂidavits Qf illegality of e:cecutl0n.—Appr0ved
Feb. 22, 1850.
Mhdnvlts »r 201. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
§,‘,‘,,°§'{ff,‘Y this Act, it shall and may be lawful for the defendant or defendants
wed“ in execution, in cases of illegality of execution, by leave of the Court,
to make any amendment of the afﬁdavit of illegality, which the de
fendant or defendants may deem necessary, and which amendment
may be made either by the insertion of new grounds of illegality, or
the correction of errors and mistakes in the afﬁdavit of illegality, and
the said amendments when made and sworn to, shall be taken as
part of the original aﬁidavit;1 Provided always, that the amending
party shall not be entitled to any delay or continuance of said case to

which he would not have been entitled in case his aﬁidavit had been
perfect in the ﬁrst instance.
Continuance 202. Sec. II. Whenever an amendment is made under the pro
visions of this Act, the plaintifff in execution or his counsel, (if sur
prised by the amendment,) shall and may move a continuance of the
case, and the Court shall charge the continuance to the amending

party.
An. Act to amend an Act entitled an Act to alter and amend an Act
passed 22d Dec. 1840, entitled an. Act to alter and amend the
ninth section of the Judiciary Act of 1799, and theﬁrst section of
an Act relative to executions, passed Dec. 14th, 1811, and to pro

vide for the enforcement ofjudgments against land sold and bond
for titles given, assented to Dec. 29, 1847.--Approved Feb. 11,
1850. Pam. 275.
‘
Mm,,,¢.,_
203. SE0. 1. Be it enacted, That when any judgment has been
{§',‘,‘{,"“‘w‘,‘,‘;,e or shall be rendered in any of the Courts of this State, upon any note
W“ i" H"- or other evidence of debt, given for the purchase of land, where titles
en and have
have not been made, but bond for titles given, it shall and may be

lawful for the executor or executors, administrator or administrators
of the obligor in such bond, to make and ﬁle and have recorded in
the Clerk’s ofﬁce of the Superior Court of the County, a good and
suﬁicient deed of conveyance to the defendant for said land, and
thereupon the same may be levied on and sold under said judgment
'Sce‘Act of 1850, see. 203.
[1] For rule prior to Statute, see 8 Ga. 317.
Execution vs. Sher-iﬁ‘-Bonds, Notes, &c. of equal dignity.

as in other cases: Provided, That said judgment shall take lien up
on the land prior to any other judgment or encumbrance against the
defendant.

204. Sec. II.

Any laws militating against this Act be and the

same are hereby repealed.

An Act to alter, amend and explain, §'c. and to authorize Consta
bles to levy certain ea:ecuti0ns.—-Approved Feb. 8, 1850. Pam.

277.
[Secs. I. and II. relate to Sureties. See Art. XXI. secs. 448,
449.]
'
205. Sec. III. That in all cases where any Sheriff may be a de- mcgmggglm
fendant in execution, it shall be lawful for the plamtiff to place his eXey(‘uliu)l'1!

execution in the hands of any Constable of the County, who shall "‘ Shem!‘
be and he is hereby authorized to levy and sell, as the Coroner or
Sheriff of an adjoining County is_authorized to do in such cases.
Sec. IV. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act be
and the same are hereby repealed.
Speciiics—value.
I-‘ive per cent. damages on bills.
Beyond U. S.
Damages if protested.
Jua'imIary Act of17’99. V01. 1_, 292.
All bonds, and other specialties, and promisso- Bondnnotea
ry notes, and other liquidated demands, bearing date since the 9th a"}‘,;.i'.r,,'“.“..'l
day of June, 1791, whether for money, or other thing,‘|' shall be of “°5°““"1°‘
equal dignity, and be negotiable by endorsement, in such manner

and under such restrictions as are prescribed in the case of promisso~
‘For Act in relation to notice to indorscrs of non-payment, &c. see Art. XXI."‘Sure
ties and Indorsers," soc. 4-37.

As to proof of indorsement, see "Evidencc,” sec. 21. As to computation of time,
see sec. 258 of this title.

For Act making judgments negotiable, see Art. 111'. “Action,” " Verdicts, Judg
ments,” &c. sec. 143, this title.
As to what constitutes a sealed instrument, see “ Evidence,” section 29.

For Act in reference to post notes, see " Banks and Banking," sec. 17.
1'Rule of valuation; see next section.
ry notes.1 Provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the
party giving any bond, note, or other writing, from restraining the
negotiability thereof, by expressing in the body thereof such inten
tion.2
An Act to ascertain and establish a certain and uniform mode of cal
culating the prices of spemﬁc articles in contracts between individ
ual and individual in this State.—Approved Dec. 1, 1800. Vol.

I. 39.
W’/rereas, it doth frequently happen that in the ordinary transactions
between individuals of this State, contracts are entered into for the

Value to be
or-tlmntcd
when due,

and but 8
per cent. in
terest

payment of speciﬁc articles, which contracts may have been either
verbal or written ; And whereas, great diﬁiculty and uncertainty has
occurred in the trial of such cases in Courts of Justice, in ascertain
ing the time from which the prices of such speciﬁc article should be
calculated; for remedy whereof, and for the establishment of some
precise mode of estimation in future,
,
207. Be it enacted, (Ye. That on every bond, note, or other in
strument in writing, or verbal contract for the payment of negroes,
produce, stock, goods, or other speciﬁc articles, of any nature or
kind whatsoever; the price of such speciﬁc article at the time it be
came due, upon such1 bond, note, or other instrument in writing, or ver
bal contract as aforesaid, and having respect to the place, [where] made
payable according to contract, if any, shall be the sole and estab
lished rule of valuation: and all and every such bond, note, 01' 0th
er instrument in writing, or verbal contract, for speciﬁc articles as
aforesaid, shall bear interest at eight* per cent. from the time they
become due, in like manner as if given for the payment of money
simply; any law to the contrary notwithstanding.
‘Legal interest, 7 per cent; see title “ Interest.
(1.) A bill of sale is not negotiable under this Statute; it includes only liquidated do
mamla for the payment of money or some article of property. 1 Kelly, 75.
A note, to be negotiable, must contain negotiable words, as required by Statute of
Anne. 1 Kelly, 236.
A note not negotiable has all of the attributes and privileges of such contracts, as be
tween the parties. 1 Kelly, 236. An assiguee takes it, subject to all equities. 6 Ga.
119.

Suit may be brought on a note by one having no interest in it.

1 Kelly, 305.

A memorandum at the foot of a note, showing how it may be discharged, does not
change its character. 1 Kelly, 319.

A promise to pay for an article to be delivered at a future date, is not a promissory
note.
A certiﬁcate ofdeposit, promising to pay to depositor or order at a certain time, is
negotiable. 7 Ga. 84.
A cotton receipt is not negotiable. 7 Ga. 104.
(2.) As to sales ofnotes bq/"ore and aﬁer due, see 4 Ga. 287.
(3.) Iudeclaring on such a paper, the value of the articles should be aver-red. 8 Ga.
Damages on dishonored Bills.

An Act concerning bills of e:mhange.—Approved December 19,

1823.

Vol. IV. 212.

-208. Whenever any bill of exchange hereafter to be drawn or PM 9""
damages on
negotiated within this State upon any person or persons of or in any (I_isllonored

State, territory, or district of the United States,* shall be returned K',',1’,‘,’-,Ir(,,, ,
unpaid, and shall have been duly protested for non-payment in the {";~‘1';“j,',‘,i;‘r
manner usual in cases of foreign bills of exchange, the person or BMW
persons to whom the same shall or may be payable shall be entitled
to recover, and receive of and from the drawer or drawers, or the
endorser or endorsers of such bill of exchange ﬁve per cent. damages‘
over and above the priricipal sum for [which] said hill of exchange
shall have been drawn, together with lawfulinterest on the aggre
gtrte amount of such principal sum, from the time at which notice
of such protest shall have been given, and the payment of the said
principal sum and damages shall have been demanded.

An Act to reduce the damages upon bills of exchange drawn on any
place beyond the limits (f the United States, returned protested for

nonpayment; andto deﬁne more precisely the mode of se/lling the
same on the principles of e:cchange.-—Approved Dec. 24, 1827. Vol.

IV. 221;
Whereas, the damages at present established by commercial cus
tom and judicial decision- in this State, upon foreign bills of ex
change returned and protested, are much too high; And whereas, a

doubt exists what is the legal mode of settlement ; for remedy
whereof,

209. Be it enacted, That on the bills of exchange drawn in this Bills or or
State after the 31st day of January next, upon any place beyond the §?:§.°nn
limits of the United States, which shall be returned protested for §I,‘,'.,,”,,','j“Z,,
non-payment, it shall be lawful for the holder or holders thereof to U- 5- "'1 "
turned pro
recover from those liable for the payment thereof, the amount of the igltzlpktgr
said bill of exchange, with postages, protests, other necessary expens- shall recur
es, and interest upon the amount of these sums from the date of the ;§.,'£§::‘£1,
protest until the time of presenting the same for payment in this
State, at the rate established at the place at which the bill was pay
able ; and also such premium upon the face of the bill and the for
eign postages, protest, and necessary expenses, as good bills of ex- Premium.
change upon the same place which such bill was made payable, or
[are] worth, at the time and place of its demand in this State ; but if
such bills are then and there at a discount, the holder shall deduct
such discount upon and from the items of principal, foreign postage,

protest and necessary expenses.
‘Extended to all bills; see next two Acts.

(1.) Promissory notes payable out of the State, and indorsed, are within the spirit of

this Act. 3 Ifﬂllj/,375.
Drawer's residence immaterial—Holidaya—Days of Grace.

damages,
It shall be lawful for the holder of such bill of
exchange, so returned protested as aforesaid, also to claim and re
ceive from the person or persons liable therefore, damages at the rate
of ten per cent. upon the amount for which the said bill was drawn.
and mm‘
It shall be lawful for the holder or holders of such

bill or bills returned protested as aforesaid, to recover the legal inter
est established in this State, from the time of presentment for settle
ment until paid, upon the sum or sums to which he would be en
titled by the before mentioned mode of settlement.

An Act to alter and amend an Act concerning bills of exchange, pass
ed on the nineteenth December, l823.—Assented to Dec. 21, 1839.
Pam. 59.
ﬁpgivillrldyuyf 212. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That all the provisions of said Act,
able out or be, and they are hereby extended to all bills of exchange hereafter
"‘°s"“"‘ drawn (in this State,) upon, or made payable [at,] any place within
the United States, out of this State, without reference to the resi
dence of the drawer or acceptor.

An Act to designate the Holidays to be observed in the accqmtance and
'payment of bills of exchange and promissory notes, and to disal
low the three days, commonly called the three days of grace, on all
sight drafts or bills of eJ:chnng'e drawn payable at sight.—Approv

ed Feb. 8, 1850.

Pam. 279.

Kolidaysnot 213. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That the following days, namely:
',‘,’,_"° °°‘““' the ﬁrst day of January, commonly called New Year’s day, the fourth
day of July, the twenty-ﬁfth day of ‘December, commonly called
Christmas day, and any day appointed or recommended by the Gov
ernor of the State of Georgia, Mayor of any City, or other munici
pal authority in said State, or the President of the United States, as
a day of fast or thanksgiving, shall for all purposes whatsoever as re
gards the presenting for payment or acceptance, and of protesting
and giving notice of the dishonor of any bill or bills of exchange,
bank check or checks, and promissory note or notes, made after the
passing of this Act, be treated and considered as is the ﬁrst day of
the week, commonly called Sunday.
arming: .l_ 214. Sec. II. Three days, commonly called the three days of grace,
lowed on shall not be allowed upon any sight drafts or bills of exchange drawn
""‘““‘“" payable at sight, after the passage of this Act; but the same shall
be payable on presentation thereof, subject to the provisions of the
ﬁrst section of this Act.
Sec. 3. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act, be,
and the same are hereby repealed.
In 1839 an Act was passed rendering it penal for certain banks to sell exchange at
more than a speciﬁed rate. It was repealed in 1840, and both are omitted
Certiorari. Injunction, Ne Ewat, &c.——Certioruri to Inferior Court.
22-1. Ne Excel for debts not due.
226. Co-obligor-—n!!ety.
215. Sec. LIV. Where either party in any cause in any Inferior r!f_eP;l0RI
bo
Court shall take exceptions to any proceedings in any case affectin g fore the n
rior Court
the real merits of such cause, the party making the same shall oﬁ'er{§ cerlionrL
such exceptions in writing, which shall be signed by himself or his
attorney ; and if the same shall be overruled by the Court, it shall and
may be lawful for such party, on giving twenty days’ notice to the
opposite party or his attorney, to apply to one of the Judges of the
Superior Court, and if such Judge shall deem the said exceptions to
be sufficient, he shall forthwith issue a writ of certiorari,1 directed to
the Clerk of such Inferior Court, requiring him to certify and sE2n.d up
to the next Superior Court, to be held in the said County, all the pro
ceedings in the said cause, and at the term of the Superior Court to
which such proceedings shall be certiﬁed, the said Superior Court
shall determine thereon, and order the proceedings to be dismissed, or
return the same to the said Inferior Court with order to proceed in the
said cause.
An Act to regulate the granting Ccrtiomries and Injunctions in this
Smte.—Approved Dec. 16, 1811.
216. Sec. I. From and after the passing of this Act, it shall not Nobwﬂmn
be lawful for any Judge of the Superior Court of this State to sane-$1 uen mp
are
tion or grant any certiorari, unless the person or persons aggrieved and cost:
paid Ind lla
applying for the same, shall have previously paid all costs which may ‘"12 Km“
have accrued on the trial below, and have given to the Magistrate or

‘For reference to Act requiring the Judge to write out his decision, see " New Tri
al, II

For Act in reference to sanction by Judge, see Art. II. “Jurisdiction, Equity," sec. 63
this title.
[1.] This writ lies to a decision on rule vs. Sheriff, for a contempt in not paying over money.
2 Kelly, 22. In all cases of contempt. Query? 230.
In cases lying in discretion, the Inf’r Court will be controlled only where a fixed rule for
governing that discretion applies, unless in cases of arbitrary abuse of it. 6 Ga. 623.
Costs and security—Injunction—On non-residenF—Second Injunction.

Magistrates, or Justices of the Inferior Court, or Clerk of the Infe
rior Court, as the case may happen, good and suﬁicient security for
the eventual condemnation money, or any future costs which may
accrue.""
Cernﬁcata
217. Sec. II. The person applying for said certiorari shall pro
ii-‘iii:E21‘ duce to the Judge authorized to grant the same, a certiﬁcate, from the

23321” "‘° Magistrate or Magistrates, or Justices of the Inferior Court who tried
the case, or Clerk of the Inferior Court, whose duty it shall be to give
said certiﬁcate, informing said Judge that the costs have been paid,
and security given in terms of this Act.'|'
'
N~'~inJ\mc218. SEC. 111. No injunction shall be sanctioned or granted by
‘ion to issue
unless costs any Judge of the Superior Courts of this State, until the party re

§Z‘,,‘}T:,'l§,':,'lqi1irii1g the same shall have previously given to the party against
°“

whom such injunction is to operate, by application to the Clerk of
the Superior Court for that purpose, a bond with good and ample se
curity for the eventual condemnation money2 together with all future
costs ; which said bond shall be lodged in said Clerk’s office, subject

to the order of the Court, and have paid all costs which may have
accrued in the case, the subject of the injunction.I
The mew
219. Sec.
IV. Where an Y doubt arises as to .the suﬂicienc
of
Illa)‘ be com.
.
Y
pelledtojus the security tendered to any of the persons, authorized by this Act to
M"
take the same, the party so authorized to take the said security, may
compel the party to justify upon oath, and such justiﬁcation upon oath
shall amount to such sufficiency as to exonerate the party taking the
secmity, from any liability.
1% rm» to 220. SEC. V. No Judge of the Superior Court shall grant or sanc
gmni either
out of hi, tion any certiorari§ or injunction out of his judicial district, unless
“‘*""""‘“'
there shall be a vacancy in any of the other districts, or the Judge
I05!‘ in cer
"i1\°""- thereof be so indisposed, or be absent therefrom, so that the business
of granting certioraries and injunctions cannot be speedily done.
[Proviso repealed by Act of 1821, see. 229.]
l_i‘erl:'Il::i:Ifl
221. Sec. VI. In all cases of bills of injunction, where the de
iiliimino fendant or defendants reside out of the State, a service on the attor
2:$;;‘:;, ney of the plaintifff in the original action, and a publication of a six
°‘ "‘° 5*“ months’ rule, obtained from the Judge granting the injunction, shall
be deemed a sufficient service."
Inlunctionl
222. Sec. VII. All bills of injunction granted by the Superior
§':1l¢'l1l'>°r"' Court, or any of them, or which may hereafter be granted, shall stand

?€.‘;"3S.,';“

and be considered as open for argument and amendment, at the ﬁrst
term of the Superior Court which may be holden after the passing of
this Act, in and for the County where the suit originated, or the ﬁrst
And nhﬂlbe term after the granting such bill of injunction; and in all cases of
drsprsed of . .
.
. .
;;;m- aec- injunction, they shall be disposed of, andadecisron made at the sec
‘ term.

‘But see Act of 1842, see. 237. Must be applied for in six months. See Act of
1838, see. 234.
TSee Act of 1850 dispensing with the granting of ccrtioraries by the Judge, sec. 238.
$Butsee Act of 1850, see, 235.
§Repoa.led as to ce'rtiora.ries, by Act of 1821, see. 229, and see Act of 1850, see. 233.

"As to publication, see Art. II. " Equity Jurisdiction," sec. 65.
[11 The “eventua‘l condemnation money," is the amount ultimately ﬁxed by the decree of
the Court, and that decree in the only legal evidence of the amount. 1 Kelly, 72.
Second lnjunction——l\'c Event on demands not due—Co-obligors.

ond term1 of said Court, held in and for the County where such suit
originated, any law to the contrary notwithstanding.
223. Sec. VIII. The dilatory practice of granting bills of in_]'L1I1C—tl:7i?|:“;¢:’n'1_4
tion a second time, after the dissolution of the ﬁrst bill or bills, shall junclinn
not be admissible or allowed of in any case or cases whatever.“
An. Act to authorize the Judges If the Superior Courts to grant writs rf
nc excel in certain cases therein, ment-tuned.-—Approved December 6 2
Whereas, great evils have existed and do yet exist in this State,
in consequence of the law of England regulating writs of ne ezeat
not having provided for cases where the demand set forth by the
complainant is not due; and whereas, no provision is made for cases
of joint obligors or joint and several obligors, when a part of them
remove, or are about removing without the jurisdictional limits of
this State, without making satisfaction to the obligee or to the other
obligor or obligors, by reason whereof, the payment of the debt de
volves on the obligor or obligors who remain within the State, and
that too without the possibility of compelling the obligors or obligor
removing, to pay or secure the payment of their proportionable part
to the obligee or the complaining obligors.
For remedy whereof,
224. See. I. Be it enacted, (Y0. That from and after the passage of Judges may
this Act, the Judges of the Superior Courts shall, and they are here- f§';,’,',‘,._,‘l‘;,',"§,,

by authorized to grant writs of ne ezeat, as well in cases where the §,‘L1"|-‘,',"E_§'_“‘
debt or demand is not actually due, but exists fairly and bona. ﬁde in will wu
expectancy at the time of making application, as in cases where the
demand is due ,3 and all the proceedings shall be as heretofore prac
tiscd in this State, in restraining the person and property of the de
fendant until he secures to the complainant the payment of the de
mand, or shows good cause to the Court why he should not pay the
same—all other proceedings to be in the same way as practised un
der this writ in other casesxf
225. Sec. II. In case of joint or joint and several obligors, if any JV‘: M}! in
one or more of them are about to remove without the jl1I‘lSd.lCi.iOl1€1l<r>l;‘li0groi"s.c°

limits of this State, and are carrying off their property, leaving one
or more fellow-obligors bound with them for the payment of any
debt, penalty, or for the delivery of property at a certain time, which
time has not arrived at the time of such removal, such obligor or ob
ligors who remain, shall have the beneﬁt of the writ of ne ereat to
compel the removing obligor to secure the payment of his part of the
debt, penalty, or of the delivery of the property; and also in cases
of security, the security shall have all the beneﬁt of the writ of ne
‘May be granted in certain cases. See Act of 1842, sec. 236.
1Defendant, how discharged; see Act 1830, sec. 230.
(1) After the parties are served and the cause set down for a hearing. 3 Kelly, 117.
(2) As to dissolution of injunction, sec 1 Kelly, 9.

3 I6. 435.

6 Ga. 220,423.

(3.) May be granted at instance of wife wing {or alimony. 8 0a._296.dce.-—-1814-’21.
Orphans' property--Discharge of defendant.

M -1-curily ereat against his principal or fellow-security, where the obligation or
;':ii¢ni';.i'iir debt is not yet due, and the principal or either of the securities are
‘°“‘"°""

about removing without the State: Provided nevertheless, that in
all cases arising under this Act, the party complaining shall pursue
the legal form and .course of law as heretofore practised in this State
—anything herein contained to the contrary nothwithstanding.

An. Act to authorize the several Court of Equity in this State to grant
remedies in certain cases, and to regulate the Courts ofLaw and Equal
ty in this State, §re.—Approved Nov. 23, 1814.
Raped!

226. See. I.

Vol. III. 39.

Where any person or persons has or shall run out

:0".,".“§.:.l'.°" of this State the property of a deceased person or persons, to the in
;§,‘;‘f,;'lT,'§,';P_jury of the orphans of said deceased, or to the injury of the next of

'"lkin entitled to the same, it shall and maybe lawful for the Judges of

the several Courts of Equity in this State, upon application and the
facts being stated on oath made to the truth thereof, and also the
property being described, and its value sworn to by the person or
persons entitled to said estate, his, her, or their agent or attorney, to
g'ive the party a remedy, either by arresting the defendant or taking
his property, or both, as the Court in its discretion shall deem neces
sary and proper. Provided always, that the Judge granting the
same shall take good security of the party, his, her, or their agent
or attorney, in double the amount sworn, to make good all costs and
damages the defendant shall sustain, it the plaintifff shall discontinue
or be cast in said suit.
Wendi!‘
227. Sec. II. The defendant if arrested, and his property also if

§J£;l",:ill'liI:llp}'::l)-E taken, shall be discharged and returned to him on his giving good
wgiiiiigw security to perform the order and decree of the Court.‘
curitv.
228. Sec. III.
If the defendant fails
lfhe- falls,
_
; or neglects
_
I I) or refuses to
§f:,1;,'l‘LP‘;,'i§ give such security, the Court may make such disposition of the prop
mﬁon of erty as in its discretion it shall deem most advantageous to the par

"" com

ties on both sides.

An Act to repeal so much of theﬁfth section of an Act passed on
the 16th Dec. 1811, entitled “an Act to regulate the granting of
Cerﬁoraries and Injunctions in this State,” so jar as relates to
Cerl1'oraries.—Assented to Dec. 21, 1821. Vol. IV. 206.
229. Wltereas, much inconvenience has resulted in practice and
frequently great injustice has been done to parties litigant in the sev—
eral Justices’ Courts of this State, from the provisions of the said
5th section; in remedy whereof,
5 sec. Au of Be it enacted, <S‘c. That so much of the 5th section of an Act
£‘,';'§"§,“lI passed on the 16th day of December, in the year 1811, as relates to

“"""‘°'cert-iorarics, be, and the same is hereby repealed.
‘See Act of 1880, see. 232.;
Judge Interestcd—Remainder men, Gtc.

An Act to prescribe the mode of proceezling under write due easeat, and
to amend the laws regulating the granting of writs of in_juncti0n, by
the Judges of the Superior Court: of this State.—Approved Dec. 22,

1830.

Pam. 125.

230. In all cases where persons may be hereafter arrested by vir- '_DefenduntJl

tue of writs of ne ezeat, they shall be discharged on their giving 'h'I,,':°.fi;"“’
bond, with good and suﬂicient security, either that they will not de- ‘“‘“°¢
part this State, or for the payment of the eventual condemnation
money.1
231. Sec. II.- In all cases in Equity, when .the Judge of any Wharqttn
Circuit may be a party to such suit, or when the complainant will {‘.l§','§,‘,’,'§,“.,,",
and shall make an aﬂidavit, that the Judge of the Circuit where the f§'_§',{:,“§°
cause is pending, or to be instituted, is interested in the subject mat- “W bills,"
ter of such cause in Equity, it shall and may be lawful, for any
Judge of the Superior Courts of this State, to sanction such bills in
Equity and grant such writs of injunction, and others as may be ac
cording to law, to effect the object of such bills.

An Act to authorize the issuing of writs of no ereat, at the instance
ofpersons claimingpersonal property, in remainder and reversion,
and to preserve the rights of such persons.--Approved Dec. 23,
1830. Pam. 126.
232.

It shall and may be lawful, for any Judge of the §uperior Remainder

Court of this State, on application to him by bill, at the instance of version
""" °' '°‘ of
any person, or persons, claiming personal property, in remainder and ll;°n',‘;_',',“; ,
reversion, to grant a writ of ne ezeat, or other suﬂicient process91 to :1:{:L=a'I¢ A
restrain the person or persons having the control or possession Ofpro roith

such property, from removing the same beyond the limits of thisIn °'
State; or to give good and sufficient security, residing in the Coun
ty, to the party claiming, in a suﬁicient penalty to be ﬁxed by such
Judge, that the property‘ shallbe subject, and accessible to the de
mand of the person, or persons, entitled thereto, in the County where
in such property may be at the time of issuing of such writ: Pro
videzl, that the person or persons, or one of them, suing for the ben
eﬁt of such writ, shall make aﬂidavit of his, her, or their right to,
and of the value of the property in question; and that he, she, or
they, entertain serious apprehensions, that the property will be removed beyond the limits of this State, and that his, her, or their
rights, will be impaired, unless a remedy be afforded for the preser
vation thereof.
233. SEC. II. The Superior Court shall at the the term to Which Now we
such writ and bond may be returnable, and at any subsequent term, I,‘L“.’;,'5°J.;’

on exceptions to the suﬁiciency of the bond, or of the security, or '“°"““
on a representation on oath, that the securities or some of them, have
. removed,’ or are about to remove, from the County, determine there
(1.) See 8 Ga, Rep. 2991

(2.)_See 8 Ga. Ry. 374.
Certiorari within 6 months—Sccond Injunction—Paupers-Payment of costs.

on, and may in its discretion, require a new bond, or additional se
curity, for the preservation of the property in controversy ; a.nd may
pursue such course therein, and in _the matter of said bill, as to jus
tice may seem proper.

An Act supplementary to an Act entitled an Act to regulate the grant
ing of Certioraries and Injunctions in this State, passed Dec. 4,
181l.—Asser1ted to 29th Dec. 1838. Pam. 54.
:‘;ar]iXr¢:Ir:‘rib°
234. Sec.
Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the
,...m_,,r .r. passing of thrs Act, it shall not be lawful for any Judge of the Su
‘“ "“ '“°"“ perior Court to sanction or grant any writ of certioruri under the
provisions of the above recited Act, unless such writ of certiorari
shall be applied for within the term of six months next after the
case has been determined in the Court below.*
Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws that militate against this Act,
be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend an Act to regulate the granting of Certioraries and
Injunctions in this State, passed Dec. 16th, 1811.—Assented to
27th Dec. 1842. Pam. 38.

lnjrrrrctions'

235. Sec. I.

Be 1.lena.ctcd, That from and after the passing of

5T',‘.l',‘.T’,‘,'..,',“,,¢this Act, the third section of the above recited Act, he so alter-rd and

““"’“‘“°' amended as to authorize the Judges of the Superior Courts of this
State, to grant injunctions upon such security and under such terms
as in their discretion such case may require.
sm,,,,1.,,,y

236. Sec. II.

It shall be lawful for a second injunction to be

be '"““°"' granted in certain cases, where a previous injunction may have been
dismissed, for cause not connected with the merits of the case, and
when the Judge to whom the application may be made, shall be sat
isﬁed that a second injunction should issue.
Sec. III. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be, and the same are hereby repealed.
An Act to enable parties plaintiﬂs or defendants, in any Court of
this State, to appeal without paying Costs, §°c. and also to enable
parties in Justices’ Courts in this State to obtain Certioraries without

paying Cost or giving Security, on certain conditions herein mention
ed.—Asseuted to Dec. 27,1842.

Pam. 13.

See. I. [As to Appeals, see Art. III. “Action ;” subdivision“ Ver

dict,” &.c. sec. 150 of this title.]
,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. 237. Sac. II. In all cases hereinafter determined, in any of the
32?; ‘;{;,,_ Justices’ Courts of this State, on the appeal, and the party cast shall
ourwayrnz be dissatisﬁed with the decision, if such party will mak'e an afﬁda.
the caste.

‘See Act of 1860, dispensing with the sanction of the Judge, see.
Certioraries to Justices’ Cour-ts—Superscdcas.

vit in writing, that he or she is advised and believes that he or she\
has good cause for certioraring the same to the Superior Court, and
that owing to his or her poverty, he or she is unable to pay the cost
and give security as required by law, such affidavit shall in every
respect answer instead of the certiﬁcate of the presiding Justice,
that the cost has been paid and security given as now required by
law; and the Judges of the Superior Courts respectively, shall grant
writs of certiorari on the production of such affidavits, if sufﬁcient
cause be shown in the petition and affidavit, any law, rrage or cus
tom, to the contrary notwithstanding.*"
An Act to amend the several Laws of this State in relation to Writs
of C'ertiwar*i.—Approved Feb. 21, 1850. Pam. 269.
238. SEC. I.

Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of Proceedhap

this Act, in all cases in any of the Justices’ Courts of this State, 3333222,

when either of the parties shall be dissatisﬁed with the judgment of f,,f,',‘,‘,'_i‘;°"
said Court, it shall be lawful as heretofore for said party so dissatiﬁed
to apply for and obtain a certiorari on complying with the requisi
tions heretofore prescribed by law : Provided always, that the peti
tion for certiorari shall not be to the Judge of the Superior Court,
but to the Superior Court, and on being ﬁled in the office of the
Clerk of the Superior Court, it shall be his duty to issue the writ
directed to the Justices of the Peace of the district where the de
cision complained of was made, directing them to certify and send
up the proceedings in the case to the next Superior Court, and in
case the next Superior Court shall sit within twenty days after the men
issuing of said writ, then the said writ shall be returnable to the
next succeeding Court; which said writ shall be served on one of the Semi
said Justices by the party applying for the certiorari, by the Sheriff,
Deputy or any Constable, at least ﬁfteen days previous to the Court
to which the return is to be made ; and it shall be the duty of the
Clerk of the Superior Court to place the case on the certiorari dock
et, which said docket the Judge of the Superior Court shall take
up and dispose of in its order, under such rules, regulations and re
strictions as are now prescribed by law for disposing of certiorari
cases.
239. Sec. II. That the writs of certiorari granted in each case Suwmﬂm
under the provisions of the above section, shall operate as a super
sedeas of the judgment in the Justices’ Court until the ﬁnal hearing
in the Superior Court.
240. Sec. III. In all cases when the error committed by said g$§y\g,'u;_'
Justices’ Court is an error in law, which must ﬁnally govern the
case, and in all other cases when the Judge of the Superior Court
shall be satisﬁed there is no question of fact involved which makes
it necessary to send the case back for a new hearing in the Justices’
Court, then it shall be the duty of said Judge to make a ﬁnal decis
‘See also as to Injunctions, sec. 241.C’rs—Citizenship—lS38—’-l0.
Injunctions by paupors-Citizenship and Itesidcnce—\\'hat constitutes residence.

ion on said case without sending it back to the Justices’ Court with
instructions as heretofore.
Sec. IV. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to authorize the granting Injunctions in certain cases.
Approved Feb. 8, 1850. Pam. 271.
_lnilm¢1ivns
241. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
QAJTSYS or this Act, the Judges of the Superior Courts be authorized and em
powered to grant writs of injunction without the security new re
quired by law: Provided, the party applying for the same will ﬁrst
make an aﬁidavit that from his or their poverty they are unable to
give
such security.
-.
l-_-||_.,.. 7-: if
I _-2 - I . -1
f‘ 1.
. _ Q-L
\~'.1" “.“'|
,‘3nl214. Petition, Process, 8:0.
247. l)isquali.tication.

r.--:51

M‘-’t4ct to more fully deﬁne the legal residence of Cili:ens and In

;’Ihabitants of this Statc.—-Assented to Nov. 29, 1838.

Hun. 203,

I=iW'hereas, no small degree of embarrassment has arisen, and is
"__',_'_‘_'.‘_’_":lil.id2ly to arise, from the indefinite manner in which the place of

"re§lde11ce of citizens and inhabitants of this State is deﬁned by

I""“""‘lQ:;tit for remedy whereof, ~'.
;‘P"id*‘/"cs, (312412. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
low dete1'mined.

.

,

.

this’-Act, the place where the family of any person shall pernntncnt
lyiteside, in this State, and the place where any person having no
family; shall generally lodge, shall be held and considered as the
n‘l§l)B}1yl'!1‘0t0l'lOl1S place of abode of such person or persons respec
tive El‘
|'-..'.';-.‘i1;..I

M"-“~7"'l‘.iq1t‘ﬂ’/l/.‘!l to point out the tribunaland mode for the trial of questions
>>"'“',()_lf"‘C’_'l-ll-Zt97lSll?']J in certain cases, and to declare who! shall be evi
rﬁelenee in the same. —Assented to Dec. 19 ) 1840. Porn. 32..

';,"Z43."iSr:c. I.
akin.’ ‘

Be it enacted, That from and after the passage

'§ii"3th;is"Act, the several Superior Courts of this State shall have ju
u;".\ ~.
“p'5lS_'-tl'dItitle“Foreigncrs," for disabilities of persons residing out of the State more
b1_XiiitflBrce years for purposes of education.
qr

Also as to rights and disabilities oi for

generally.

‘or Acts in relation to suits by persons of color for freedom, see title "Slaves, Pat
rols and Free Persons of Color." sec. 155, et seq.
(1.) Even though boarding and doing business in another County.

2 Kelly, 171.
'l'rihunnl and trial of question of C-itizenship—Claims and Forthcoming Bonds.

risdiction over questions of citizenship which may arise in cases here
inafter provided.
244. Sec. II. It shall and may be lawful for any free white citi- Petition.
zen to ﬁle his petition in said Court, as in suits of a civil nature,
against any person who may claim to exercise the rights and privi
leges of a free white citizen of this State, in which he shall distinctly
allege that such person so claiming to exercise and enjoy the rights Mention-'
and privileges aforesaid, is of mixed blood, and not a free white
citizen ; to which the Clerk of said Court shall annex a process, and aPrmss
copythereof be served on the defendant, in the manneras now provi- Service.
ded for in cases on the Common Law side of said Court: Provided,
that before ﬁling such petition, the person ﬁling the same shall
make oath that the facts set forth in it are true according to his or her On!»
belief or knowledge.
215. Sec. III. At anytime any suits may hereafter be pending Pmiw
under the authority of this Act, it shall be lawful for any person to
make him or herself aparty to it, and prosecute the same, subject
to all the liabilities as though he or she had commenced such suit.
246. SEC. 1V. All suits instituted as herein provided, shall be tried Trial bchro

by a special Jury, at the ﬁrst term of the Court to which the same apeml Jury‘
may be returnable, unless continued according to the rules and prac
tice of said Court; and that ﬁnal judgment shall not be rendered,
either for or against the defendant, until there shall be two concurring 'Ijwo Concur

verdicts, as in cases of divorce, according to the laws now in force ; mg Yam“
and the ﬁnal judgment so rendered, shall be deemed and held in all
the Courts of this State as conclusive upon the rights and privile
ges of said defendant.
On the trial of any suit hereafter to be instituted Third

by the authority of this Act, it shall be lawful for the plaintiff to g€i'i:;,rtl:'r’m
prove that the defendant is descended from, and stands in the third de- {’§-‘°X}',ﬂ'_,‘:
grec or generation to him or her who was or is not a free white citi- ;",‘L‘f",‘l,‘,“‘“!"’°

zen of this State, or of any other State whose Constitution and Laws
tolerate involuntary slavery, or that said defendant has one-eighth of
Negro or African blood in his or her veins.
Sec. 248. Forthcoming Bonds.
“

Sec. 253. Forthcoming Bonds.

2-ll). Claim; Oath; Bond; Burden of “

proof.
‘For Acts in relation to claims at executofs and administrator's sales, see title “ Ex
etmtors, Administrators,” Sac. sees. 87, 88.

In relation to claims to cstrays levied on. see title “ Estrays," sees. 25, 23.
In relation to claims to property attached, see title “ Attachment and Gamishment,”
secs. 5, 6, 31, 32, 47, 61.

_

In relation to claims to property where a lien 15 sought to be enforced, see Art. XIV.
“ Lien," sec. 324.
In relation to claims by one partner, see Art. XIX. “Partners,” &e. sec. 425.
In relation to claims to property levied on by tax Ii. fa. see " Tax," secs. 45, 97.
Forthcoming Bond—Assignment—1nt;erposition and trial of a Claim.

An Act to compel Coroners, Sheriffs and Constables to receive scru
rities on certain occasions therein ezj)ressed.—Approved Dec. 16,

1811.
Forthcoming
In all cases where a levy is made on property which
:’il:g:’ti?. is claimed by a third person, and good and sufficient security is ten
,‘,’,‘,‘,",‘,‘,,",,‘,,°‘ dercd by the party claiming the same, it shall be the duty of such Sher
iff, Constable or Coroner, to take security for treble* the amount of the
debt on which such execution is founded, for delivery of the prop
erty so levied on, at the time of sale, (Provided, the property so levied
on should be found subject to such executionf) then and in that case,
it shall be the duty of the Sheriff, Coroner or Constable, to leave the

and the PH» same in the possession of such claimant, and in case the said claimant
party leﬂ
with the or security shall fall to deliver the property at the time and place of
clainnnt.

MN, wig“ sale agreeably to such bond, it shall be the duty of the oﬂicer taking

;§’§,,‘{}ﬂ!_“” the same to transfer such bond to the plaintifff in cxecution,* and said
bond shall be recoverable in any Court of Law or Equity in this
State, having cognizance thereof.

An Act to alter and amend so much ofthe thirlly-second section of the
Jmliciart , passed the 16th of1"ebruar_:/, 1799,‘ as respects Claims
of Property in the Superior and Inferior Cmlr/s of this Slate.—
This Act passed Dec. 15, 1821. Vol. IV. -207.
Pmmble
Claimant
' 7Vhe1-eas, various constructions have been given in the ditferent
Courts of this State, as it regards claims of property, which tend to
the manifest injury of the community, and frequently produced not
only injustice to the plaintifffs in execution, but evidently to oppress
and harrass them by delays of justice ;
-249. See. I. Be it thereforee enacted, That when any Sheriff or

t':li'.‘n:"f'|l‘: Coroner shall levy an executioni on property claimed by any person
§;‘:,"{‘,{§h_ not a party to said execution, such person§ shall make oath to said
wrlmll property, and it shall be the duty of such Sheriﬁ‘ or Coroner to f \s‘
pmlpone
gale. {fit pone the sale or future execution of the judgment, until the next
term of the Court from whence said execution issued: Pr- |‘i-(ltd,

§',’;i,",‘,,§'{§ the said execution is or should be levied on personal propert; : but
"f,',‘:¢‘r’f,‘",';|',,Y should said execution be levied on real property, and the saw. Qnould
}:|"1‘i"':i§iod be claimed in manner aforesaid, then and in that case, it shall be the

mm: u-.nmdl1[Y of the ofﬁcer making the levy upon real property to report the
:i'il°s='.'1-3;.‘ same, together with the execution and claim, to the next term of the

Superior Court of the County in which the land so levied on shall
‘By Act of 1841, see 257, bond must be in double the value of the property‘, and pay
lble to the plaintiff.
1-This section being entirely superseded, is omitted.
$Where Justices’ Court ﬁ.fa. is levied on slavm, see next Act, sec. 251.

§His agent or attorney; Act of 1839, see. 256.
(1.) In an action on a forthcoming bond, it is not necessary to prove a remand de
mand of the property at the time and place of sale. 6 Ga. 260.
Interposition and trial of a claim.

he ; and the Court to which such claim shall be reported, shall cause
the right of property to be decided on by a Jury, at the ﬁrst term, un
less special cause be shown to induce said Court to continue the case
for one term, and no longer : Provided, the person claiming such Claim bond
property, or his agent or attorney, shall give bond to the Sheriff or iv'i.il?§'liii iii:

Coroner,l as the case may be, with good and sufficient security, in a ‘Z§§’i,',',Y.l§;.
sum equal to double the amount of the property levied on, at a reas- '“‘-°‘“‘‘1' ‘"
onablc valuation, to be judged of by the levying oﬁicer, conditioned
to pay the plaintifff all damages which the Jury on the trial of the
right of property may assess against him, in case it should appear
that said claim was made for the purposes of delay ; and every Ju- i‘j1;!§‘;“;¢:;II
ror on the trial of the claim of property,‘ either real or personal, shall less thin 10

be sworn, in addition to the oath usually administered, to give such "°"°“"
damages, not less than ten per cent,* as may seem reasonable and
just, to the plaintiffagainst the claimant, in_ease it shall be suﬂiciently
shown that said claim was made for delay only; and it shall be lawful
for such Jury to give verdict in manner aforesaid, by virtue whereof
judgment may be entered up against such claimant and his security
or securities for the damages so assessed by the Jury, and the costs of The burden
the trial of the right of property: And provided also, that the bur‘ of PR“ on
lh |li\ii\liﬂ'
den of proof shall he upon the plaintifff in execution in cases where wild p|'c:~
the property levied on is, at the time of such levy, not in the pos- ‘;’0....y.i in d..

session of the defendant in execution. 2
250. Sec. II. \Vhcnever such claim of property may be made g“",‘?,‘,h'{°"°
in terms of this Act, the person claiming property levied on and re- g{:c\:;:l<i:
turned to the proper Court by said Sheriff or Coroner, shall not be ued more

than ‘RC9
permitted
to withdraw
or discontinue
his
said
claim,
more than once 3 “-i.h,,.,m,,,_

without consent and approbation of the plaintiﬂ? in execution, or ff;¥_‘°“"‘“'
some person duly authorized to represent such plaintifff, but said
Court shall proceed to the trial of said claim of property in manner
aforesaid, and it shall be the duty of the Jury to award damages ac
cordingly : And provided further, that either party who may be dis- EM" W3’
satisﬁed with the verdictof said Jury, may enter his, her or their ap
peal to a special Jury in the Superior Court of the County where said
trial shall have been had, which appeal shall be subject to the same
rules and regulations as govern in appeals in ordinary cases.
Sec. III. So much of said thirty-second section of the Judicia
ry Act of 1799, as regards claims of property, Which may militate
against this Act, is hereby repealed.
'Forthe form of oath, see “ Attachment,” 8:c. sec. 35.
For mode of assessing the damage, see Act of 1829, sec. 252.
(1.) The bond should be payble to the Sheriff. 6 Ga. 576.
'
A vendor's lien cannot be set up and asserted by claim to land levied on. 8 Ga. 258.
The claimant may rent or hire out the property claimed. 8 Ga. 354
(2.) The defendant inﬁ. fa. an incompetent witness for claimant. 6 Ga. 365.
The plaintiﬂ in ﬁ.fa. on the trial need not produce thcjudgment. 6 Ga. 410.
Proof of possession of a slave of same name, age and sex, with the one levied on, sufi~
eient to change onus. 6 Ga. 410.
On a claim to a negro levied on by judgment quando, proof of possession by intestate at
his death, and that possession never has been had by administrator, removes the onus. T
_ Ga. 194. See 7 Ga. 495.
(3.) And that prior to an appeal, if damages have been given. 8 Ga. 184.
'l'rinl—~Damogcs—Rnlc of Assc.<s'n1t~nt—Forthc0ming Bonds.

An Act to provzllc for the trial of Claims of Slaves levied on undtr
Erwution.—Approved Dec. 7, 1824. Vol. IV. 215.
‘crlziirrmfilebe 251. In all cases where a writ of execution from a Justice's Court
ﬁrst tonu orshall have been levied on one or more slaves, and a claim to such
2,',‘.'{?,‘,‘|’~’,' M slaves shall have been interposed according to the laws in force for

$.'3§£°"“' the time being, such execution and claim shall be returned to the
:1I;,I:f&;::& next term of the Superior or Infenor Conrt w_lnehever_may ﬁrst
happen, of the County in Which such execution was issued, and
shall be there tried in the same manner as other claims which by
law are or shall be returnable to those Courts respectively.1

An Act to rlrjinc and male certain. the mode Q/‘assessing Darnagcs upon
the trial of Claims of Proper‘/y in the Superior and Irr_/i;-n'or Courts in
this StuM.—Approved Dec. 21, 1829. Vol. IV. 224.
252. TVhereas, doubts have been entertained whether upon the
trial of claims of property, damages should be assessed upon the
amount of the execution, or the value of the property claimed, or
upon the amount of the claim-bond; for remedy whereof,
'
I‘amm~- on
Be it cnacmi, That from and immediately after the passage Of

lll=ll.',"§};8,','§l“ this Act, upon claims of property now pending, or which may be
hereafter pending in the Superior or Inferior Courts of this State
where damages shall be found by [the] Jury, the said damages shall
be assessed upon the whole amount then due upon the execution
levied : Provided, the value of the property in dispute exceeds
the amount of said execution; and upon the value of the prop
erty claimed when the same is less than the amount of the execu

tion levied; any law, usage or custom to the contrary notwitl1stand
mg.

An Act to make valid the Bonds taken by the »S'heriﬁ's of this State
and their Deputies, Coroners and Constables from dejemlantsin
execution,for the delivery ofproperty levied on by them.—Apprm’

ed Dec. 21, 1829.
5:;-magma“;
253. ‘From and after the passing of this Act, all bonds taken by

dm, ,,f.",-, the Shenifs of this State, or their Deputies, or Coroners, or Consta

:,{‘fe';‘.1,‘{:'{"n bles, from defendants in execution, for the delivery of property 0"
1'", M the day of sale or at any other time, which they may have levied 011
by virtue of any ji. fa. or other legal process from any Court, her
and the same are hereby declared to be good and valid in Law, and
recoverable in any Court in this State having jurisdiction thereof
(l.) To prove payment of the ﬁ.fu. it must be to plaintiﬂor his asaiynrc. 6 60-575
The claimant may nlwaya prove it. lb. He cannot show paramount title in I and

person. lb. 8 Ga. 556.
He may show the mortgage and judgment fraudulent and void.
254. Sec. II. The bonds taken in conformity with the ﬁrst sec-f_<1iwprvJu
tion of this Act shall in no case prejudice or affect the rights of ii';i_it:i_i,°rr1;.
plaintifffs in execution, but shall relate to and have effect alone be- L",‘;L",{{§?,,_'“
tween the Sheriff's, their Deputies, the Coroners, and the Constables,
and defendants, by whom given; and the Sheriff shall in [no]
1
case excuse himself for not having made the money on any exccu‘
tion by having taken such bond, but shall be liable to be ruled as
now prescribed by law.*

An Act to amend the several Acts regulating Attachments in this State.
and to regulate proceedings in cermifl cases, when the plaintiﬂ” shall

die after rendition qfjudgmcnt.-Passed Dec. 29, 1836.
255. SEC. VI. In all cases where any claim shall be interposed §§L1',f; 3;"
for property levied on by virtue of a ﬁeri faeias, from any of the ::;"(ff"§'h';=
Courts of this State, and pending such claim, the plaintifff shall die, lnsteurvir:-_

it shall and may be lawful for the executor or executors, administra- iggaliliiiiiiiin
tor or administrators of such deceased plaintiff, upon motion, in the ’;§,",¥i';:',‘,‘,‘,‘“°

Court where such claim is pending, to be made parties, instanter, .‘,m,,"§f;.‘,;,”,'}o_
and the said case shall proceed without further delay: Provided, the g;§nI§Ln‘£°
said executors or administrators, shall produce in Court, their letters

testamentary or of administration ; and, provided, they shall give to
the claimant, or his attorney, twenty days’ notice of the said intend
ed application to make such parties. And provided always, in such
cases, where there are more than one plaintifff, the cause shall proceed
in the name of the survivor, and this Act shall not be applicable, ex
cept when the last surviving plaintifff shall die while such claim is
pending.

Sec. VII. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend the Claim Laws now in jbrce in this Slate.—Assen
ted to Dec 21, 1839. Pam. 139.
256. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That upon the levy of any execu- g§;":\§"f
tion hereafter to be made,' upon any property, whether real or per- may claim
sonal, it shall be lawful for any person or persons desiring to claim
the same, to do so by him, her or themselves, his, her or their agent
or attorney, in the same manner, and under the same restrictions, as

are provided for the issuing of attachment.
Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act
be, and the same are hereby repealed.
‘See sec. 257.
An Act to be entitled an Act to alter and amend the Claim Laws of

this State.—Assented to Dec. 11, 1841.

Pam. 128.

mhzpgas 157. Be it enacted, That in all cases of claim, whether the levy
on value ofb6 made under attachment or execution, the amount of any bond

Y.“ "yy;,,|, given for the forthcoming of the property levied on shall be in double
‘°

' “E the value of such property, to be estimated by the levying oﬁicer;
and all such bonds shall be made payable to the plaintiff in attach
ment or execution, who may sue and recover on the same, upon
breach of the condition thereof.
An Act to alter the mode of computing time in certain cases.—As
sented to 28th Dec. 1838. Pam. 70.
Month is be 258. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
,°;3,,°,',‘|‘,‘_“ this Act, in all cases whatsoever, where time is required to be com
puted by the month or by months, the computation shall be by the
calendar month and not by the lunar month: Provided always, that
this Act shall not affect rights or interests accrued before its passage.
259. Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the passing
of this Act, every person who shall be elected to the office of Cor
oner shall, before he enters upon the execution of the duties of his
oﬁice, take the following oath or aﬂirmation, to-wit: I, A B, Coro
‘On inquests over slaves, fees to bepaid by the master; see title " Fees," sec. 34.
This is not aproper subdivision under the title “ Judiciary." The fact that Mr. Prince
placed it here has alone controlled the compiler.

Election of Coroners, see “ County Oﬂicers," sec. 3.
For Act declaring in what newspaper he shall advertise, See Art. XYII. " Oﬁccrs of
Court,” sec. 388.

Asto duty on arrest of insolvent debtors, sec " Insolvent Debtors," sec. 14.
Oath of (,‘oroner—Inquest-—-Jury—Precept.

ner of the County of
, do solemnly swear or aﬂirm (as the Emy wr
. son elected
case may be,) that I will well and truly serve the State of Georgia to tlreotﬁcc
in the office of Coroner of said County; that I will, to the utmost of I.’,f§’|':"§Z'ﬁ,,,

my power, faithfully and truly execute, or cause to be executed, all f§‘;‘j,‘"l'l‘:,“e,“"(‘,,
writs and precepts to me directed and which shall come to my hands, §1;';:{f::;m
and will faithfully and truly return the same, according to the best The oath.
of my knowledge, skill, and judgment; that I will in no case know
ingly use or exercise the said office illegally, corruptly, or unjustly ;
that I will neither directly or indirectly, by any means or device, or
under any color or pretense whatsoever, accept, receive, take, use,

or enjoy, or consent to the accepting, using, receiving, taking, or en
joying any fee or reward of or from any person or persons whomso
ever, for the summoning, empanelling, or returning of any inquest,
Jury, or tales to or in any Court for this State, or between party and

party, other than such fees or rewards as are or shall be allowed by
law for the same ; and that I will not directly or indirectly exact or
demand any manner of fee or reward from any person or persons for
serving, executing, or returning any writ, precept, process, execution,
or inquisition, or for any other service in my said oﬁice, other than
such fees or rewards as are or shall be allowed for the same by law,
but that I will in all cases and things touching the duties of the said
oﬂice demean myself honestly, fairly, and impartially, according to
the best of my knowledge, skill, and judgment.
Every Coroner shall, upon view of the body, take ?'° ‘"°
lnquesls of

inquests of deaths in prisons, providerl such death happened sudden- gpialhslind
ly or violently, and without an attending physician, unless such death eimyhem
be attended by suspicious circumstances ; and of all violent, sudden, P'°“"°'
or casual deaths within his County, and the manner of such deaths.
261. Sec. Ill. The Coroner as soon as he shall have notice, or Shall main
be certiﬁed of any death as aforesaid, shall make out a precept di— i,:lli.opI?::p‘
80"

ll

reeted to any Constable of the County where the dead body is found f§f,‘,‘I§,',;f‘“
or lying, requiring him to summon a Jury of inquest composed of ,'§,“i,{)i'l:gm_
good and lawful men from the Captain’s district within which the said mm! R My
body may be reported to lie, or from an adjoining district of said '(.ri_?l]llIllll'l':le’l
_
.
.
- district in
County, if
necessary, to appear before him
at the tune
and place 111
wm¢|,",e
such precept mentioned and contained, which precept shall be in t'o1'm{’,‘;‘:y,,,"‘,“,,’
following:
_ County, towit: The State of Georgia to any lawful gﬂzggdwb"
Constables of
, of the said County. You are required immedi- The win or
ately, upon sight hereof, to summon
good and lawful men from M" pm”

--— district, or an adjoining district if necessary, of the County of
, to be and appear before me, A B, the Coroner of the County
aforesaid, at
, in the said district of said County, on the
day of
, at the house of
, in the —noon of tlie same day,
then and there to inquire of, do, and execute all such things as, on
behalf of the State, shall be given them in charge, touching the
death of
(or a person unknown, as the case may be,) and be
you then and there to certify what you shall have done in the prem
ises, and further to do and execute what in behalf of the said State
shall be then and there enjoined upon you: in the said County, this
day of
, in the year of our Lord
.
262. Sac IV. The Constable to whom such precept shall be
Vt-rtlii-t—()ath of Jur_v—'1'heir powers and duty.

The ConstrdiI'CCt0d and delivered shall forthwith execute the same, and shall
:’L°§{f‘°‘

repair to the place at the time mentioned therein, and make return of

the precept, with his proceedings thereon, to the Coroner.*
Or !h0C(\l'D- 263. Sec. V. It shall be the duty of the Coroner to certify and
Eil-rrtiiiiindioili return every Constable who shall neglect or refuse to execute the sei

‘“°““"C"'vicos and duties, or any of them, by this Act prescribed, to the next
Inferior Court to be held in and for the County ; which Court, un
less a reasonable excuse be offered, shall set such ﬁne upon the Con
stable offending as they,shall think ﬁt and reasonable, not exceeding

ﬁfty dollars.

'

_AJuror ML 264. Sec. VI. When any Juror shall be summoned as aforesaid
i{1F.i§ f,“{§'d and shall fail to attend, that then and in that case the said defaulting
ﬂ“”“'
Juror shall forfeit and pay a sum not exceeding ten dollars, to be lev
ied by execution under the hand and seal of said Coroner, unless
such defaulting Juror shall show good and suﬂicient cause of excuse
within ten days after said‘ default, to be made on oath before any
Justice of the Peace, and ﬁled in the oﬂice of the Clerk of the In
ferior Court, the merits of which excuse shall be determined by the

next Inferior Court thereafter.
7ofthcl2
265. Sec. VII. The Coromcr shall swear or affirm twelve of the
:,,L,,'_;"':l,°§,‘m s1id Jurors, who shall appear, seven of whom shall be competent I0

'”"“°‘~

return a verdict’; and shall administer to the foreman of the inquest

Tlwyrnri»

an oath or affirmation upon view of the body, in form following :
You, as foreman of the inquest, shall diligently inquire and true pre

"“"'°'“"' sentment make, on behalf of the State of Georgia, how and in what
manner —, or a person deceased, unknown, as the case may be;

here lying dead, came to his death, and of such other matters re
latirig to the same as shall be lawfully required of you, according to
evidence: and then shall swear or affirm, by three at a time, in or
Z:t;1\lrﬂr’H der, the rest of the Jurors in form following: Such oath or aﬂirm11
'
tion as the foreman of this inquest hath taken on his part, you and ev
ery of you shall well and truly_ observe and keep on your parl
m;_e:ih;:-labo 266. Sec. VIII. When the Jurors are sworn or affirmed, ashafofe‘
i_Worn,lhc said, the Coroner shall charge them on their oath or afﬁrmatwn I0
,L,,f,’,',‘l',‘,°,',,"" declare if the death of the person, whether he or she, died by lT_111T'

§:‘,‘,‘,'§ §1!;;;1,» der, manslaughter, misadventure, misfortune, accident or Otl18l'Wl$€i
59:2:-Ill u_ and who, and when, and by what means, and in what manner; “"4
tem and if by murder, who were principals and who were accessanes; and 1f
"°“'""°f by manslaughter, who were the perpetrators and with what instru
the Jury
P"'“"""""" ment the stroke or wound was in either case given; and so Of all
(I
' '
'- prevailing circumstances which may come by presumption.
:1liiiii1l;eilil~.\'
And If.
no to make.
the
by misadventure, misfortune, accident or otherwise, whether by
act of God or man; and whether by hurt, fall, stroke, drowning, of
in any other way ; to inquire what persons were present at the defllbi

from whence the deceased came, and who he or she was, and his or
her parents, relations, or neighbors; who were the ﬁnders Of the

body ; whether killed in the same place where he or she was fmild,
or if elsewhere, by whom and how he or she was brought {mm

thence, and of all circumstances relating to the said death; and '
‘coroner may summon the Jury himself, sec. 273.

he or she died in prison, whether by hard usage there or not, and if
so, how and by whom; and if he or she, put an "end to his or her
own life, then to inquire of the manner, means, or instrument, and of
all circumstances concerning it.
267. Sec. IX. It shall be lawful for every Coroner to issue pro- The Game:
to Issue pro

cess for witnesses, commanding them to come before him to be ex- ceases M

amincd, and to declare their knowledge concerning the matter i11“"‘“°“°“‘
question; and the said Coroner shall administer to every witness an

oath or affirmation, in form following: You solemnly swear (or af- Adnoinhmb;
a m mater’

ﬁrm) that the evidence which you shall give this inquest, on behalf to the wit
of the State, touching the deathof C. D. (or a person unknown, as “°"°‘“"
the case is,) shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth.
All Coroners shall deliver their inquisitions to the g1>lr,n'r|:|: :3

next Superior Courts of their respective Counties, and the said Courts inquisitinnn

shall proceed thereon against the offender.
261). SEC. XI.

§i'.,i,'ii’ 'ﬂ~‘:,"u‘n.

Every Coroner, upon any inquisition before him Incasos of

found, whereby any person or persons shall be Iindicted of murder or },‘I,"Q§,‘,{{‘|°,',‘.ft

manslaughter, or as aceessary or accomplice to the said crime of mur- ,if:,,‘;'§i‘,;',1“,,;'§
dcr, either before or after the fact, shall put in writing the effect of Widrnfs 8*
ll be

so mucl1 of the evidence given to the Jury before him as shall be ;i:_-'il;|,J,'.'ii"

material ; and every such Coroner is hereby authorized and roquir— "l>'lmlm‘i1i,L
are matenil,
ed to bind all such by recognizance as do declare any thing material ,,,,,,,,,,dc,,,
to prove the said murder or manslaughter, or to prove any person or “
persons aecessary or accessaries, as aforesaid, to the said murder, to
appear at the next Superior Court of the County where the trial
thereof shall be, then and there to give evidence against such offen
der or offenders at the time of his, her, or their trial; and shall cer
tify as well as the same evidence as such recognizance or recogni
sances in writing as he shall takeftogether with the inquisition be
fore him taken, and forward to the said Superior Court at or before
the time of the trial of the party or parties indicted.
270. Sec. XII. If any Coroner be remiss, and do not take in- Aaclzmleg
quisition as aforesaid, or do not certify as is before directed, or shall lilugdury

offend in anything contrary to the true intent and meaning of this ;'§.','g?,';
Act, the Superior Court of the County where such offense shall be r‘“°d"‘°'
committed, upon due proof thereof, by examination before them,
shall for every such offense set such ﬁne upon the said Coroner as
the said Court shall think ﬁt and reasonable, not exceeding $500.
271. Sec. XIII. The said Coroner shall, before entering on the 'l'he_Comner

duties of his office, give bond and security as is prescribed in tl1e§1§'i§i'§$
case of Sheriffs, in the sum of $500, except in the Counties of §,{,',}f’“'““‘ °‘
Chatham and Richmond, where the penalty of said bonds shall be Emptim

$2,000
272. Sec. XIV. The Coroner and Constable serving the process Fees.
shall each receive, in addition to the fees now prescribed by law, the
sum of ﬁfty cents on each execution collected; and that the Con
stable summoning the Jury shall receive the ‘sum of one dollar.

Sec. XV.

All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act

be, and the same are hereby repealed.
Jury—-Removing Body—Fees of Physician and Surgcon—Corporations.

An Act to amend an Act entitled an Act concerning Coroners and
Inquests, passed Dec. 22d, 1823.—Approved Feb. 21, 1850. Pam.
123.
Onmm-rmn_v

273. Sec. I.

Be it enactecl,'That from and immediately after

?.i’;;'_“°“ ml‘ the passage of this Act, it shall be lawful for the Coroners of the sev
eral Counties of this State to summon the Jury or any part thereof
himself, if the services of a Constable cannot be conveniently ob
tained.
Body maybe 274. SEC. 2. \Vhcn it shall so happen that a body lies in an in

mnowm

convenient place, it shall be lawful for the Coroner to remove the
body to a place more convenient to hold the inquest.
Sec. Hi. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to compensate Physidans and Surgeons who shall be sum
moned by the Sltemiﬂ' or Coroner of the County to make post 1110'’
tem e.z‘am'z'nu-lions _/or the information of Juries of inquest.-—AP
provcd Fob. 23d, 1850. Pam. 335.
,
rm'n_r

275. See. I.

Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of

':§"..°.,",':..,,, this Act, it shall be lawful for every physician and surgeon who shall

‘,’,f',,,‘'‘,‘',‘,‘,,::;‘_'' be summoned by the Sherilf or Coroner of the County to make post
"mu
mortem examinations for the information of Juries of inquest, to
charge and receive from the Treasurer of the County the sums [M
lowing,] to wit: For each post mortem examination, where death has
resulted from external violence, where no dissection is required, the
sum often dollars ; for the same, where dissection is necessary, and

where no interment of the body has been made, twenty dollars; for
the same, after one or more days’ of interment, thirty dollars; for tho
same, where any chemical analysis is required, the sum of ﬁfty dollars

and the expense of such analysis : Provided, That the compensation
allowed in this Act shall not extend to more than one physician 10!
each post morte1n examination.

276. Sac. I.

Be it enacted, That it shall and may be lawful for w..k1,. M

plaintifffs or complainants, within one month after the institution of iifé;ﬁ','y 3}“:
any suit or suits at Law or Equity against any incorporation, joint :\§;r“§i;;';;;.
stock or manufacturing Company, to publish once a week for four ‘s_m||piw I10
successive weeks, in some public gazette of this State, notice of the ilﬁiiijﬁli
commencement of said suit or suits, and said publication shall ope
rate as notice to each stockholder in said incorporation, joint stock,
or manufacturing company, for the purposes hereinafter mentioned.
277. Sec. II. When notice has been given as aforesaid, and 3.“'hen_ judg
judgmcnt or decree has been obtained against any incorporation, '§,.‘}L'§:“.':,'l'

joint stock or manufacturing company, where the individual or pri— f;;‘f,‘;:‘ $1“
vate property of the stockholders is bound for the payment of ‘the f;~§,‘;;1"=1n‘{*°
Whole or any part of the debts of said company, execution shall ﬁrst
P“ Y’
issue against the goods and chattels, lands and tenements of said com
pany; and upon the return thereof by the proper officer, with the UP” mm-.

entry “ no corporate property to be found,” endorsed thereon, that "'execution
"""“ "°"“
then and in that case it shall be the duty of the Clerk or other ofﬁ- §f;fQ;L,f,’£
ccr, upon application of the plaintifff, his agent. or attorney, accompa
nied with a certiﬁcate, as hereinafter directed to be obtained, forth

with to issue an execution against each of the said stockholders (if
required) for their rateable part of the said debt and costs of suit, in
propcrtion to their respective shares or other liabilities under their
charter of incoporation.
278. Sac. llI. It shall be the duty of the president, or presiding President
officer, by whatever name he may be designated, upon application of ,",',‘,‘,‘,‘,'.,f‘i,',{',i§"
the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, forthwith to give a certiﬁcate L111-$§;§,{‘f'°‘
der oath of the names of the stockholders in said company, and "alder-*=\-1"‘
the number of shares owned by each at the time of the rendition of liiiiiil-'1?”'

judgment against said company.
279. Sec. IV.
If upon application by the plaintifff, his agent, or Upon Mun

attorney, to the president or presiding officeras aforesaid, he shall re- .°.;‘.‘;“.“§.‘£.‘}..'.‘2
fuse to give a certificate as aforesaid, or shall abscond or conceal him- him‘
self to avoid giving the same, and oath being made by the plaintifff,
his agent or attorney, of said refusal, the Clerk or other officer is here

by required to issue execution against said president or presiding of
ﬁccr as aforesaid, for the amount of principal, interest and cost of said
Suit.

280. Sec. V.
If the president, directors, or other ofﬁcers of said If"wCqm~
puny fall to

company shall fall or refuse to defend said suit or suits, brought asnma .-mu:
aforesaid, any one or more of the stockholders of said company, shall 22:31; 15,,
be permitted by the Court, before which said suit or suits is pending,
to plead to and defend the same, in as full and ample a manner as
said company in its corporate character could plead to and defend the

same.
281. Sec. VI.

The defendant or defendants in execution, under Aﬂidavit qt

the provisions of this Act, shall be entitled to an illegality, under the m°“‘W"
lame rules, regulations and restrictions as defendants are in other cas

es under the existing laws of this State.
“ode of creating certain Uorporations and changing names.

Thiirellyrdy

282. Sec. VII.

This Statute shall be understood and construed

°“m“m'"' as cumulative of the Common Law ; and that all laws and parts of
laws militating against the same, and this construction thereof, be,
and the same are hereby repealed.
>

An Act to point out the manner of creating certain Corporal-z'ons,* to
deﬁne their rights mulpririlcgcs, and to provideamode of changing
the names of indiuiiluals.-Assei1ted to Dec. 28, 1843. Pam. 108.
5323:; plan;
I;,,,“,_

283. Sac. I.

Be it enacted, That when the persons interested

shall desire to have any church, camp-ground, academy, school,

volunteer, military company, manufacturing company, trading com
pany, ice company, ﬁre company, theatre company, or hotel compa
ny, bridge and ferry company’[ incorporated, they shall petition in
writing the Superior or Inferior Court of the County where such as
Ohjec_to_t the sociation may have been formed, or may desire to transact business
“’°°"“'°“' for that purpose, setting forth the object of their association and the
Name and privilege they desire to exercise, together with the name and style
“‘“°
by which they desire to be incorporated, and said Court shall pass a.
rule or order directing said petition to be entered of record 0;: the
minutes of said Court.
Powennf
284. SEC. II. VI/‘hen such rule or order is passed, and said peti
‘“;';,“,'f,§;'P°' tion is entered of record, the said companies or associations shall
have power respectively, under and by the name designated in their
petition, to have and use a common seal, to contract and be contract
ed with, to sue and be sued, to answer and be answered unto, izi any

Court oI'Law or Elllllty, to appoint such oilicers as they may deem
iiecessary, and to make such rules and regulations as they may think
proper for their own government, not contrary to the laws of this
State; but shall make no contracts or purshase, or hold any pr».~perty
of any kind, except such as may be absolutely necessary to ciirry in
Nobmkinz to etI'ect the object of their incorporation. Nothing herein coiitaiu
§:,iF:fQ‘,,'§i‘“° ed shall be so construed as to confer banking or insurance privileges
Stonltlioldcrs on any company or association herein enumerated ; and the individ
,',',;‘,.'{:,",,‘,‘;‘_

ual members of such manufacturing, trading, theatre, ice, and hotel

companies, shall be bound for the eventual payment of all the con
tracts of said companies as in case of partnership.
Xorlmrter
285. Sec. III. No company or association shall be incorporated
§',‘,f,:{:',‘4'“"_:’»,_,,ui1der this Act for a longer period than fourteen years, but the same

:?;‘;é",‘,',‘é?‘d_"° may be renewed whenever necessary, according to the provisions of
the ﬁrst section of this Act.

'[l;]i;_r:|§:i‘p:li'rpr 286. Sac. IV. _ The said S_u_perior or ~Inferior‘ Court shall have
,,,,,,,,,|;,,,,ge power and authority, upon petition in writing, to change tue name
““'“°*
of any individuals, by rule or order, for that purpose: PI'O1-Mal, such
individual shall have resided in the County where lns or her appli
cation is made for at least one year previous thereto, and shall give
‘For Act of 1847, in relation to Mnnufachuing Companies, see title " Joint Stock
Companies,” sec. 15.

,

]''Extended to all Associations, by Act of 185, sec. 288.

____ V___ i.‘___

Fees-—Ev'idence—-Liability of Stockholder-s—Habea.s Corpus.
at least three months’ prior notice 1n one of the nearest newspapers, Residence

and at the Courthouse door of said County, of the intended applica- “ml “°"°°'
tion.
287'. SEC. V. Forentering any of said petitions and orders on the Fees ofCl’k
minutes of the Court, and turnishing a certiﬁed copy thereof, the
Clerk shall be entitled _to a fee of ﬁve dollars, except in casesof ap
plication by individuals, for the change of names, in which case the
Clerk of said Court shall be entitled to the fee of one dollar, and that
such certiﬁed copy shall be evidence of the matters therein stated in Certiﬁed_
any Court of Law or Equity in this State.
.
§‘;',’,yw'_""
Sac. VI. All laws or parts of laws militating,r against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to extend the provisions of the Act passed on the tzeezzty-eiglhlt
day of Dec. 1843, entitled an Act to point out the mmrncr of creol
ing certain Corporations, to dc;/‘inc their rights and p/evileges, and lo
procidea made of changing the names of 'iml'ivit1uals.——Approvcd
Dec. 29, 1845. Pam. 18.
288. See. I. Be it enacted, That the provisions of said Act, so Provisionsol‘
far as the same relates to corporations, be and the same are hereby ex- Q\ci£,i1J§'ii.
tended to all associations and companies whatsoever, except banks ‘,‘,‘o',:"""'i“'
and insurance companies, and that the individual members of such
associations and companies, when incorporated under said Act or un
der this Act, shall be liable, as therein speciﬁed, for the contracts of Liability of

said associations or companies, whenever any such associations o1'“‘°“k"“'d°“
companies are incorporatedfor the purpose of trading or transacting
business for -proﬁt.
Judiciary Act of 17-'99.-—Vo1. I. 292.
290. Sec. VII. The Judges of the Superior Courts, or any one wmm 113.
of them, and the Justices of the Inferior Courts or any of thernf in "°“°°'““
the absence of the Judges of the Superior Courts, shall have power
to issue writs of habcas corpus; and in all cases to discharge, admit
to bail, or remand to jail, any prisoner, according to their discretion

and the law of the land: Provided, that in all cases of a capital
‘See “ Appendix," as to the writ of Habeas Corpus, and for Statute, 29 ('ar. II.
Prisoners shall not be discharged on Hubcas Corpus for a defect in the mittimus; see
"Penal Laws,” sec. 391.

T F5!‘ Act requiring Judge to write out his decision on, see Art. III. Subdivision, “New
ri s.”

As to custody of children, see “ Execut/ors, Administrators," 8:0. sec. 149.
Tdee next Act.
Habcas Corpua—Jail fees not paid, defendant discharged.
_______,_—____—____—________——
Proceedings nature where a writ of habeas corpus shall be issued by a Justice of
memn' the Inferior Court, it shall be necessary that one or more of the Jus
tices of such Inferior Court shall associate with the Justice granting
the same, at the return thereof, and amajority of such Justices shall

concur in opinion on any decision or order aforesaid ; and it shall
be the duty of such Justices to attend, on one day’s notice being
given of the time and place of the return of such writ.

An Act to amend the seventh section of an Art, entitled an Act to
amend an Act, entitled an Act to revise and amend the Judiciary
System of this State, passed the 16th day of February, 1799; and
to provide for opening and atljourning the several Courts of Or
dinary in this State in certain cases.—Approved Dec. 20, 18.23.
Vol. IV. 211.
gaijrmyc if
291. From and after the passage of this Act, it shall not be law
ormt-'il.re»r ful for any one or more of the Justices of the Inferior Courts of this
f;',,;‘§f’,’,“,;“ State to discharge or admit to bail any person under a writ of habeas

;‘;‘:a':°§;:;' corpus, unless a majority of the Justices of said Court shall concur
in opinion.
Sec. II. [See “ Executors, Administrators,” 6&0. sec. 12.]

An Act to authorize and empower the Justices of the Inferior Courts
of this State to discharge Criminals or Ofenders against the
Law from Jail an certain cases, and also to d-2's/:harge defendants
in certain Civil cases.——Appr0ved Dec. 29, 18-17. Pam. 196.

S1-:c.'I.' [See “Penal Laws,” sec. 415.]
Jalbtees not
pnld de(cnd292. Sec. II.

If any person or persons be imprisoned in the
am i

common Jail of any County in this btate, on a mesne or ﬁnal pro

cess for debt, if the plaintifff in suit or execution, his agent or attor
ney, does not pay up, at the end of each and every week, the Jail
fees which haveaccrued, then and in that case the Inferior Court
may, and they are hereby authorized to discharge the defendant or

defendants by writ of habeas corpns.’''‘1

‘

Sec. III. All laws or parts of laws militating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.
‘Same provision substantially, Act of 1808, “Insolvent Debtors," sec. 7. See also,
see. 94, this title, Art. 111. subdivision, "Bail," where prisoner is carried to Jail of an
adjoining County.
See also, " Insolvent Debtors," sec. 37.
(1.) If the Court err: in ii! judgment, the Sheriﬁ is protected.

t__ V_‘ _,_

7 Ga. 119.

A __‘_

‘.______-_--_-A-‘_._
Joint Tenants—Survivorship ubol.ished—Jurics.
An Act to abolish the Right of Survivorsh-ip in Joint Tenants in
this State.—Approved Dec. 17, 1828. Vol. IV. 222.

Whereas, it is doubtful whether the right of survivorship, as un- Preamble.
der the English law, does not still exist in this State, in all estates
of joint tenancy;
293. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of this Act, Snr~;i\-whip
ub0hshedb=
when two or more persons shall hold and possess any estate of lands tween gum
in joint tenancy in this State, and one or more of said joint tenants ‘°'“““"
may depart thislife during the existence of said estate, the title or
interest of the deceased joint tenant in sand estate shall not go and
become the property of the surviving joint tenant or tenants, as
under the English law, but that the same shall be distributed as all
other estates are, under the existing laws of this State.
All laws and parts of laws, militating against this Act, are hereby
repealed.
male white citizens above the age of twenty-one years, and under
sixty years,* are declared to be qualiﬁed and liable to serve as Petit
Jurors for the trial of all civil causes for recovery of debts or dama
ges, to any amount whatsoever; but no person shall be capable to
be of a Jury for the trial of treason, felony, breach of the peace, or
any other cause of a criminal nature, or of any estate of freehold,
or of the right or title to any lands or tenements, in any Court of
record within this State, who shall not be qualiﬁed to vote at elec
tions for members of the Legislature; and if any person not quali
ﬁed as aforesaid, shall be returned on any Jury, he shall be discharg
ed on the challenge and proof thereof, of either of the parties to such
f§3:{,‘°:f suit, or on his own oath, of the truth thereof: Provided, that no ex
ivrluwr il ception against any Juror, on account of his qualiﬁcation, shall I‘ be
mm
allowed after he is sworn.1
>
l(odsnl'seThe Clerks of the several Courts are re

£22“ Ju‘ quired in presence, or under the direction of the Judge or Judges

of such Court, to regulate and correct the several Jury lists annually,
by particularly specifying in distinct columns, the persons most able,
discreet and qualiﬁed, as herein mentioned, to serve as Grand Ju
rors; which list so corrected, shall be committed to the safe-keeping
of the Clerks of such Courts respectively; and the Clerks of such
Courts shall immediately after receiving such lists, fairly enter the
same in a. book for that purpose, to be provided by such Clerk (at his
own expense,) distinguishing in separate columns, the persons select
ed to serve as Grand Jurors, and those for the trial of civil and crim
inal causes as aforesaid; and the names of the persons so selected,
shall be written on separate pieces of paper and put into the diﬂ'er
ent apartments of a Jury box, to be provided by the Clerk, at the
public expense, in the construction and manner hereinafter prescri
bed, to-wit : there shall be an apartment in the said Jury box mark
ed No. 1, in which shall be placed the names of all the persons se
lected to serve as Grand Jurors, and another apartment marked No.

2, into which shall be placed the names of all persons selected for
the trial of civil and criminal causes as aforesaid; which box shall

Hodo_0f

be kept locked, and no Jury shall be drawn or impannelcd, but in the
presence of one or more of the Judges and Clerk of the Court; nor
shall any Clerk of the Court or other person having the custody of
the Jury box, presume, on any pretense whatsoever, to open the said
Jury box, transpose or alter the names, except it be in the presence
of the Judge or Justices oﬁicially attending for the purpose of draw
ing Jurors, or correcting the list, under penalty of being dealt with
in the manner herein pointed out for malpractice in oﬁice.~|~
296. Sec. XL. The said Judge or Justices and Clerk of the

"“"""'

Court or person having custody of the key, shall, previous to the
adjournment of any Superior Court, or at least two months prior to
'Clergymen exempted, sec. 806,} and Justices Inferior Court, sec. 317.
1-See note on preceding page. See also, Act of 1805, secs. 303, et seq. altering the
mode of selecting Jurors.
(1,) The proper time for challenging is between the appearance and swearing. 3 Kelly, 453.

As to grounds of challenge, see note to see. 350 “ Penal Code." As to polling Juries, sec
8 Ga. 458. The citizens are incompetent, where the City is a party. 7 Ga. 139.
Nuinl)er of Grand Jury—Inf ‘r Ct to draw in certain cases—Precept—Su.n1mons.

the sitting of the next Court, cause to be drawn out of the apart
ment of the said box marked No. 1, not less than twenty-three, nor
more than thirty-six names, as Grand Jurors; and out of the apart~

ment marked No. 2, not less than forty-eight, nor more than seventy
two names, as Petit Jurors, for the trial of civil and criminal causes
as aforesaid; which names so drawn out shall, after an account is
taken of them, at each term or time of drawing, be carefully rolled

up again, and deposited in the two other apartments to be provided in
such Jury box, marked Nos. 3 and 4, to-wit: the names of the Grand
Jurors in the division 'No. 3, and the names of the Petit Jurors in the

division No. 4; and when all the names shall be drawn out of the
apartments Nos. 1 and 2 aforesaid, they shall then commence draw
ing from the apartments Nos. 3 and 4, and return them into,the

Nos. 1 and 2, and so on alternately.
297. Sec. XLI.
.‘'-\.srlw-v'i‘.\I|3-ui‘_f"'\“‘4-,nU'q!a\1'€‘
No Grand Jury shall consist of less than eigh- Gram! Jury

teen or more than twenty-three, but twelve may ﬁnd a bill or make §'¢‘,‘,‘,l,‘;‘:“,',:1,“,“,
a presentment. And the names of the several Jurors to be drawn as",',‘,‘,[,‘n,‘~’,““
aforesaid, shall immediately after they are drawn out, be entered by nnmwo 1*
eaten-ll on
the Clerk on the minute book of such Court, and if it shall so--1in.|::s._
happen, that from any unavoidable circumstance, the Judge shall fallout, me
not attend at the time appointed for holding the Superior Court of §:',{,‘131,
any County, he shall nevertheless attend in person for the purpose
of drawing Jurors, or shall transmit to the Justices of the Inferior

Court of such County, a request in writing, that they, or any two of
them, attend at the Clerk’s oﬁice, on some convenient day, at least2 mom,“
two months preceding the next term, for the purpose of drawing rﬁar w "10
renn
Grand and Petit Jurors in manner hereinbefore directed; and the Jud|’zos‘of
said Judges of the Superior Courts are declared to be responsible for §i,';'.o'nl'i:il~n

the legal and regular drawing of Juries in the respective Circuits in
Which they may preside. And in case of such unavoidable circum
stance, specially stated by any Judge of the Superior Court, the said
Justices. or any two of them, shall and are hereby required, to con
form to such request, by attending and drawing Juries agreeably
to this Aetf“= (Prov-iso temporary.)
298. Sec. XLII. The Clerk of the Court shall annex a pannel I‘rmr>w~
of the Jury, containing the names of the persons drawn to serve on 5“
the Grand Inquest, exactly transcribed from the minutedxook to the
precept for summoning such Grand Jury ; and shall also annex another
pannel containing the names of the persons drawn as Petit Jurors for
the trial of civil and criminal cases, exactly transcribed as aforesaid,
to the precept for summoning the Petit Jurors, in the mandatory part
of which precept shall be written, the words following, viz : “ The
several persons named in the pannel hereunto annexed,” which pre
cept, with the several pannels annexed as aforesaid, shall be delivered
by the Clerk of the Court within three days after the drawing of such
Juries as aforesaid, to the Sheriff of the County or his Deputy.
299. Sec. XLIII. The Sheriff or his lawful Deputy for the hm” M n
time being, upon the receipt of any precept for summoning Gr: md summoned
10d . bo
or Petit. Jurors, shall cause the several persons whose names arerunbydun.
\

‘See f rther provisions on this subject, Act of 1816, sec. 310.
Defaulting Jurms—Fine—-Talesmen—Oath of Pctit Jury.

Form mm written in the pannel thereunto annexed, to be served with a sum
mu mons, at least ten days before the sitting of the Court for which they
are drawn and impanneled ; which summons shall be in the following
words, or words to that effect: “ By virtue of the precept to me di
rected, you are hereby commanded to appear before the Judge of the
Superior Court, at the next Superior Court to be held at the Court
house in and for the County of
, on the—-day of
, at ten
o’clock in the forenoon of that day, to be sworn on the Grand Jury
(or as a Juror for the trial of civil and criminal causes then and there
depending, as the case may be :”) which shall be signed by the Sher—
itf or his lawful Deputy for the time being ; which Sheriff or lawful
Deputy aforesaid, shall make return of all such precepts, in each of
which he shall set forth the names of all such persons as shall have
been summoned by virtue of such writs or precepts, and the time when
they were summoned, and also the names of the persons whom he
may not have summoned, together with the reasons why they were
not summoned, on pain of being ﬁned by the Court.

_Rf,'_fl:",‘,','§,.
b"""wd300. Sec. XLIV.

The Clerk of the Court shall make due entry

in the minute book of such Court, of the appearance of all Jurors,
and shall likewise enter and make report of the names of all such
as shall make default in appearing ; that if any person who shall be
drawn, impanneled, summoned, and returned to serve as Jurors at

any Court as aforesaid, shall neglect or refuse to appear, or after ap
pearance shall refuse to serve, or shall absent himself without leave
of the Court, then and in that case, it shall be lawful for the Conn
M M“ J" to ﬁne such person, if a Pctit Juror, in a sum not exceeding twenty
21,-ff‘-':‘,'§J|"lf_ dollars, andif a Grand Juror, in a sum not exceeding forty dollars,
M04“
unless such Juror shall show good and suﬁicient cause of excuse, to
be made on oath betore any Justice of the Peace, and filed in the
Clerk’s oﬂice of such Court, within thirty days after opening the
said Court ; the merits of which excuse shall be determined by the
.,-Memm next succeeding Court ; and when from challenge or otherwise there
shall not be sufficient number of Jurors to determine any civil or
criminal cause,‘* the Court may order the Sheriff or his Deputy, to

summon by-standers or others,‘ qualiﬁed as hereinbefore required, for
the trial of such cause or causes, sufliicient to complete the pannell

and when the Sheriff or his Deputy are disqualiﬁed from acting in
the manner herein expressed, Jnrors shall be summoned by the COP
oner, or such other disinterested person as the Court may appoint._
Oath of P:
301. Sec. XLV. -Tl1e oath to be administered to Petit Jurors In
in Jururs.
civil cases shall be in the form following: ‘_‘ You, (A. B) shall Well
and truly try the causes depending between the parties at variance,‘
and a true verdict give according to evidence : so help you God.”
:?_§l}lfr‘y“={"f,; Sac. LVI. - “Then a cause shall be committed to a special JIUYI
-|':;{_°1llP~ the oath to be administered shall be in the words foliowir1(:._\'I_Z3
(oath amended 1811, see. 308.)

And the same oath to be arlmun9

tered to Juries on appeals.
‘Sec further as to Juries in criminal cases ; " Penal Laws."
(l.) The presiding Judge cannot draw talesmen from the Grand Jury box.
Grand Jurors are competent talennen in criminal causes. 8 Ga. 136.

1 Kelly; 631.
Jury on new trials-—-Selection and drawing of Grand Juries.

302. Sec. LVIII. All new trials shall be had by a special Jury, §;'§,°::°f,‘u‘_"_
to be taken from the Grand Jury list of the County, and struck i11{li,':1r-new
the presence of the Court, in the following mannerﬁF The Clerk
shall produce a list of the original pannel of Grand Jurors, returned
to the term in which such trial shall be had, from which the parties or
their attorneys, shall alternately strike out one until only twelve shall
remain, who shall forthwith be impanneled and sworn to try the
cause ; and in all cases the party applying for such new trial, shall Applicsmfnr
strike first; and in case of refusal in either to strike, on the calliligiiiiiilliiitw
of the cause, the Judge presiding shall order some officer of the
Court, or other person, to proceed to strike the said Jury in the
same manner as the party refusing might or could have done. And
it shall be the duty of all persons summoned on the Grand Jury to 3lL$,°,uw
attend the Courts for the purpose of determining such new trials, mus: memk
whether they be sworn on the Grand Jury or not.
An Actfor the belle/' selection and drawz'ng Grand Juries for the
several Comzties in this State.—-Approved Dec. 7, 1805. Vol.
II. 272.1
303. See. I.

It shall be the duty of the Justices of the Inferior smnm of

Courts of each County, together with the Sheriff and Clerk, or aG"“'““'°"
majority of them, to convene at the Court-house of their respective
Counties, on the ﬁrst Monday in June next, and biennially on the
ﬁrst Monday in June thereafter, whose duty it shall be to select from
the books of the receiver of tax returns, for their respective Coun
ties, ﬁt and proper persons to serve as Grand Jurors; and shall make
a list of persons so selected, and transmit it u11der their hands to the
next Superior Court of their respective Counties; and it shall be the
duty of the Judge then presiding, to cause the Clerk of the said
Superior Court to make out tickets, with the names of the persons
so selected, which tickets shall be put in abox to be provided by the
Clerk at the public expense, which said box shall have two apart
ments, marked number one and two ; and the Clerks of said Courts
shall, immediately after receiving such lists, fairly enter the same in
a book for that purpose, to be provided at his own expense, distin
guishing in separate columns the persons liable to serve as Grand
Jurors, and those for the trial of civil and criminal causes, as pointed

out by law; which said box shall be locked and sealed up by the
Judge, and placed in the care of the Clerk, and the key in the care of
the Sheriff, and no Grand Jury shall be drawn and impanneled, but
in the presence of the Judge in open Court, nor shall any Clerk of
the Court, or other person having the custody of the Jury box, pre
sume, on any pretense whatever, to open the said Jury box, trans
pose, or alter the names, except it be by the direction of the Judge in
open Court, attending for the purpose of drawing Jurors, under the
penalty of being dealt with in the manner pointed out by law for
malpractice in office.
304. Sec. II. The said Judge, in open Court, shall unlock and
‘The Act of 1810, see. 307, provides a mode of striking " all special Jurora."
(1.) Held to supersede the Act of 1799, 8 Ga. 408.
Selection and drawing of Grand Juries—Clergymen—Spccia.l Juries.

Z)'‘,;’n-'‘‘,','‘ 1 break the seal, and cause to be drawn out of the apartment of the
-MM
said box marked number one, not less than twenty-three, nor more
than thirty-six names, to serve as Grand Jurors, which names so drawn
out shall, aftcran account is taken of them, at each time of draw
ing, be carefully deposited in the other apartment of such box, mark
ed number two; and when all the names shall be drawn out of the
apartment number one as aforesaid, they shall then commence draw
ing from the apartment number two, and return them into number
one, and so on alternately; but no name so deposited shall, on any
pretense whatever, be destroyed, except it is within the knowledge
of the Judge that the said Juror is either dead, removed out of the
County, or otherwise disqualiﬁed by law, or the Sheriﬁ certify the
S1Il1G.
Infailure of 305. Sec. III. If it shall so happen, that there should be a fail
:i::)llons’taJrlld ure of the Court in consequence of the non-attendance of the Judge,
‘-’:“,{é‘,;,,‘:{f’ then, and in that case, the Jurors being summoned shall stand over
to the next succeeding term, in the same manner as suitors and wit
Ltyzoisurlnezao nesses do in like cases: 1?TL't"ld€(l always, that if the said Justices,
at the pmpusheriﬂ‘ and Clerk aforesaid, shall fail to make such selection on the
;,‘:'§',,L‘,,“',',':“ day aforesaid, that then it shall be the duty of the said Justices,

‘,§,‘,’,°‘,‘,‘,',‘;,,‘,"° Sheriff and Clerk aforesaid, or a majorityof them, to make such se
°W"lection at or before the next Superior Court thereafter, which shall
be held in their respective Counties.
Sec. IV. So much of an Act entitled “an Act to amend an Act
entitled an Act to revise and amend the Judiciary system of this
State,” passed at Louisville, the 16th day of February, 1799, as mil
itates against this Act, be, and the same is hereby repealed.
An Act to give relief to all ordained illinisters of the Gospel, so jar
as respects their serving as Jurors, or doing Militia duty.—Ap
proved Dec. 12, 1809. Vol. II. 531.
Clorgymen!

See. I. [Respecting militia duty. See Militia, sec. 41.]
306. Sec. II. The Judges of the Superior Courts, the Justices

21‘-:vui|::|;:m of the Inferior Courts, and Justices of the Peace, are hereby author

““‘““"

ized, on application, to excuse them from service on the Juries of

their different Courts, the application to be made in writing or oth
erwise.

An Act to amend the several Judiciary Acts now in _/‘brce in this State.
Approved Dec. 15, 1810.

‘BMW -"1307.

Vol. II. 640.

All special Jurors shall be taken from the Grand Jury list of

rice, how

llIiGkQlL

the County, and struck in the presence of the Court, in the follow
ing manner: the Clerk shall produce a list of the Grand Jurors pres
ent, aud there impanneled, from which the parties, plaintifff and de
fendant, or their attorney, may strike out one alternately, until there
shall be but twelve Jurors left, who shall forthwith be impanneled
and sworn, as special Jurors to try the appeal cause ; and in all casl
es the appellants shall strike ﬁrst; and in case of refusal in either to
strike such special Jurors, after due notice given__for the purpose, and
Oath of Special Jury—Oath of Grand Jury.

proof thereof, the Judge before whom such notice is given for such
special Jury to be impanneled, shall on behalf of such absent party,
or his attorney, proceed in the same way and manner, as if the party
absent or refusing had been present or consented to the same.

An Act to amend the LI/Ith section of the Judiciary Law Qf this
State.-—Approved Dec. 4, 1811. Vol. III. 367.
308. See. I.

The oath to be administered to special Jurors (ex- om; of m

eept in cases of divorce*) shall be in the words following, to-wit : sp°"“H“'y'
“ You shall well and truly try each cause submitted to you during
the present term, and a true verdict give, according to equity, and
the opinion you entertain of the evidence produced to you, to the
best of your skill and knowledge, without favor or affection to eith
er party ; Provided, you are not discharged from the consideration of
the case or cases submitted; so help you God.”

An Act to admit Grand Jurors to give evidence.—Approved Dec. 10,
See. I. [See Evidence, sec. 35.]
In future, the oath to be administered to the fore- Ollhofﬂre‘
man of all Grand Juries, shall be as follows, viz : “ You, as foreman Gun‘ Jury’
309. Sec. II.

of the Grand Jury of the County of -——, shall diligently inquire,
and true presentments make of all such matters and things as shall
be given you in charge, or shall come to your knowledgeﬂ touching
the present service ; the State’s counsel, your fellows’ and your own,
you shall keep secret, (unless called on to give evidence thereof in
some Court of Law in this State :) You shall present no one for envy,
hatred, or malice, nor shall you leave any one unpresented from fear,
favor, affection, or reward, or the hope thereof; but you shall pre
sent all things truly and as they come to your knowledge, so help
you God.” And the same oath which is taken by the foreman, shall
be taken by each and every member of any and all the Grand Juries
in this State._'t
‘For oath in divorce cases, and regulations respecting trial of divorces, see title " Di
vorce," secs. 7, 12, 13.

fExpluined by Act of 1829. see. 313.
‘Form of oath administered to the remainder of the Jury, see Art. IX. “ Coroners
on

Inqucsts." sec. 265.

For oath of special Jury, see sec. 308.

For claim oath, see “Attachment and Garn-_

ishrncnt," sec. 34.
For Bail.iﬂ' s oath, see sec. 314-, this title.
For oath in criminal cases, see " Penal Laws," see. 313, 314, 315.

In addition to the duties speciﬁed in their oath, the following note may aid Grand Ju
ries as to their powers and duties:
1. Examine and inspect the oﬂices, papers and records of the Clerks of Superior and
Inferior Courts. See “(loﬁity Funds and Records," sec 21.
2. Examine receipts and payments of the Treasurer at the ﬁrst term in each year.
" County Oﬂicers," sec. 49. If no Treasurer, then the books of the Clerk acting as such.

" County Funds and Records," sec. 23.
3. May recommend extraordinary tax for County purposes; see “ Counties,” sec 8.
Juries drawn out of term time.

An Act to authorize the Justices of the Inferior Courts in this State,
to draw Grand and Petit Jurors in certain cases.-—Approved Nov.

30, 1815.
In failure of
The Justices of the Inferior Courts for the several Counties

{}I:j§'§§;, in this State, or a majority of them, together with the Sheriff and
1%‘; $1,‘ Clerk of the Superior Court, in any of their several Counties, be, and
draw Juries they are hereby authorized and required in all cases where there
shall or may have been a failure of the Judges of the Superior Courts,‘
in drawing Grand and Petit Jurors agreeably to law, to assemble at
the Court-house in their several Counties, at any time which shall
be to them convenient, and proceed to open their Jury boxes, and
draw from said boxes a suﬂicient number of names to serve as Grand
and Petit Jurors for their or either of their said Counties at their next
then depending Superior Courts: and the Jury being so drawn, the
said box or boxes again to seal and deliver, together with the keys,
to the proper oﬂicer. Provided, that said assemblage and drawing
shall be at least sixty days previous to the commencement of the
Superior Court at which said Jurors shall be liable to serve.

An Act to authorize the Justices of the Inferior Courts in this State
to draw Juries out of term tz'me.—-Approved Dec. 13, 1820.

Vol. IV. 199.
"'l'°1"'°'i°'

311. See. I. From and after the passing of this Act, that it shall
be .lawful in all cases where it happens. that
the Justices. of any. In
draw lunes
,
aHhcirrogu-fel‘10l‘ Court, at the regular term of said Court, shall om1t drawmg a
lf,f§,'z'L',‘1',T,“' Jury to serve at the succeeding Court, that the Justices of said Court
,',",§\"§,‘,,"_‘,‘u,y_ or any three of them,nvith the Sheriff and Clerk, meet at the place
of holding such Court at least forty days previous to the sitting of
said Court, and draw a Jury under the same regulation that they
ought to have done in term time.I
4. To examine and allow Tax Collectors‘ insolvent list.

May examine and recom

mend abatement in certain cases. See “'l‘ux,” sec. 13, 52.

5. At every fall torm examine Clerk's account of sales of estrays. See “ Estrays," sec.
15.
6. At spring term may recommend a tax for educational purposes. See “ Academies,
&c." sec. 8.
7. Made their special duty to present offenses against the Act prohibiting the carrying
of deadly weapons, and issuing of change bills, which may come under their own knowl
edge. Sce "Penal Laws," secs. 365, 369.

8. May recommend to Inferior Court to grant license to peddle, to indigent persona
“Peddlcrs," sec. 18.

*For former provision on this subject, see sec. 297.
1'As to what that regulation is, the compiler has not found a Statute rmrqmzled pro
scribing. The LXVIth section of the Judiciary Act of 1797, gave the Inferior Courts
" the same power to draw, impanncl, and ﬁne Petit Jurors for the trial of causes refer

red to their jurisdiction," as the Superior Courts had. The Act of 1799 repealed this
section, and by its 3d section, (see subdivision " J urisdictiom”) granted power to the
Superior and Inferior Courts to hear and deter-min'e all causes, both civil and criminal,
of which they “ have jurisdiction according to the Constitution and Laws of this State,

by :1 Jury qftwolve men, to be taken from the County, in such manner as shall hereinafter
Juries drawn out of term time—Duty of Grand J ur0rs—Oath of Bailiff.

' 412. Sec. II. When any Inferior Court in this State, at the reg- :I~.'lv1:::“:‘r;:tyed
ular term of said Court, have omitted drawing a Jury to serve at the drawing a
next Court, that they shall, after the passing of this Act, be authorized if ',,‘,“,,'f,“;',‘
to draw a Jury at any time, under the same regulation as in the pre- ‘““F '““~'
ceding
section;
the said
Clerk
of as
theherein
Inferior
Court make
shall Th
immediately
afterand
thethat
drawing
of said
Jury
provided,
mt-rhoC‘flirMno
out a list of the Jury so drawn, and place the same in the hands of l{“,',,’{'§‘°h““"
the Sheriff, or Deputy, who shall proceed immediately after receiv- Sherm
ing the same, to summon the Jury so drawn, in the same manneras
if they had been drawn at the regular term of said Court; and the
said Jurors so drawn and summoned, shall be bound and liable to The -“"0"
.
.
.
linbletu
serve in the same manner and under the same penalties as if drawn §Ft‘;ve,ar.:ts
.

I’ W“ '

at the regular term of said Court ; any law to the contrary n0t\v1th- lhaifi,-g\1l:!
standing.

tonn.

An Act to deﬁne the duties of Grand Jurors in this State, so far as
respects the time they are to be considered bound to notice Qﬂlmces
committed in their respective Cmmties.—Approved Dec. 22, 1829.

Vol. IV. 229.
313.

Grand Jurors shall be bound only to notice or make pre- am; of _

sentment of such offenses as may or shall come to their knowledge ,‘.','§,','c'§‘,;l.“,f',."
or observation after they shall have been sworn ; but nothing
Act shall be considered as impairing their right as Jurors to
presentments of any violations of the laws which they may
to have been committed at any previous time.
Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against the
and meaning of this Act, are hereby repealed.

in this “in! """"'
make
know
intent

An Act to amcndund alter the oath of Bailzfs, who take charge of
special and Petit Juries, and for other purposcs.—-Approved Dec.

26,1831.

Pam. 138.

Whereas, the oath now administered to Bailiffs requires them to
keep the Juries without meat, drink, or ﬁre, candle light and water
only excepted ; and whereas, it often happens, that in cases of much
litigation, Juries are unable for a great length of time to agree upon
a verdict, and are thereby exposed to cold and hunger: for remedy
whereof,

314. See. I.

Be -it enacted, That the following shall be the oath 35': ‘_’,{§’,“,t

to be administered to all Bailitfs, sworn to take charge of special and
Petit Juries in the Superior and Inferior Courts of this State, to-wit:
You shall take this Jury and all others committed to your charge,
during the present term, to the Jury room or some other private and
be prescribed, according to the usayca and customs of law." Under this section, and the
(bnstitution preserving trial by Jury, “as heretofore used," there can be no doubt of the
authority of the Inferior Courts to draw Juries, as is practised by that Court before the

legislative recognition in the above Act of 1820.
Food and ﬁre for J uries—J usticcs Inferior Court-—Liens.

convenient place, where you shall keep them without meat, drink or
ﬁre, candle light and water only excepted, (unless otherwise directed
by the Court.) You shall not speak to them yourself (nor suffer
others to speak to them) unless it be by leave of the Court, to ask
them if they have agreed upon a verdict or are likely to agree. All
this you shall do to the best of your skill and power, so help you
God.
The Cpurt
315. SI-:0. II. Whenever it shall so happen that the Jury is con

iriiiieitiiw ﬁn'ed in the investigation of any case, for a length of time, which
',,',§",{,",°‘:,, exposes them to hunger or cold, or both, the Court may, on applica

‘“‘““'°“°" tion from said Jury, direct them to be fmnished, at their own ex~
pense, with such nourishments as in his own judgment may seem
just and proper; and permit them to have provisions and fire, or
' either, if circumstances should, in the judgment of the Court, re
qture it.
milaiarzzgse
316. Sec. III. The said Bailiifs shall receive from the County
um.
Treasurer, or Clerk of the Court, where there is no Treasurer, 01
each County, $1 per day in addition to their present fees, for each
day the said Bailitfs shall serve in attendance on the Juries.

An Act to relieve the Justices of the Inferior Court from Jury duty.
Approved Feb. 21, 1850. Pam. 293.
é9:1e'3:£§;,

317. SEC. I.

Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of

from Jury

this Act, all Justices of the Inferior Court of this State, be, and the

my‘

same are hereby, at their own option, exempt from Jury duty.
Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
he and the same are hereby repealed.
Statutes referring to this subject, omitted as obsolete, repealed or
superseded. Provincial Act of 1756, Watk. 46; of 1757, Ib. 47;
of 1760, Ib. 64; of 1768, Ib. 1&9; of 1778, Ib. 222, 223.

‘For Acts giving lien on steamboats and other water-craft on certain rivers, see “In
ternal Transportation," sec. 109.
see same title,
115.

Also as to liens on steam mills and gold machines.

Lien given to ship-carpenters, painters, &c. and other artisans employed in build
ing, repairing, or furnishing materials for vessels, crafts and steamboats, and summary

process to collect, in Chatham County andﬁity of Savannah, by Act of 1841, Pam. 122.
Lien allowed to painters in Glynn County the same as to master masons and car
penters, Act 1841, page 170.
Mason‘s and Carpenter-‘s Lien—Record—Contraet——Suit—-Verdiet.

An Act‘* to give to masons and carpenters an incuntbrance jbr dc-bis
due on account of work done and materials furnished in building
or rcpai-rirtg houses, and the premises to which they may be altu.clt
ed, and to repeal all laws on this subject so far as relates to the
Counties of R1'rlum-'lnd and Jllclntosh, and in the Cities of Swarm
nah, Macon and Columbus.—-Assented to Dec. 22, 1834. Pam.
318. See. I. All debts which may hereafter become due to any fkbtsdue Iq
mason or carpenter in
. the Counties
. of Richmond
.
and McIntosh, the ginrpﬁiiegn a
Cities of Savannah, Macon and Columbus in this State, for \\-'o:'l(:',“,','.'“,"|',,',}§‘,‘,",
done, or materials furnished for building or repairing any house, i11},'§,‘}s‘,’,“§:,°
all cases, when said mason or carpenter shall not have taken person- £;°mir::;I';‘
al security for said debts, shall constitute and be an incumbrande 011-'ui)1oritrh1>
such house and the premises to which it shall be attached, S11};(.‘i‘i0l'Mn.
in dignity to, and of higher claim than any other encumbrance who.t~
ever, no matter of what nature or sort the same may be, and without
regard to the date of such other encumbrance.
319. Sac. II. Every mason or carpenter building or repairing“ berry
any house, shall, within three months from the time the same is iA'riiii'iia'n3
completed, cause to be recorded in the Clerk’s office of the Coun
ties hereinbefore named, and the Counties in which the Cities of
Savannah, Macon, and Columbus severally lie, where such buildim;

shall be erected or repaired, his claim thereon, which said claim shall
be in substance as follows: “A B, amason or carpenter, (as the case Form.
may be,) claims an encumbrance on the house and premises on which
it is erected of C D, adjoining the lots or lands of E F and G H, for the
building or repairing (as the case may be) of said house ;” for which
service he shall pay said Clerk ﬁfty cents; and on the failure so to Clerk's m.
record said claim, the said house and premises shall stand discl1a:"ged
from said encumbrance, so far as respects any older lien on or any
subsequent bona ﬁde sale or assignment of the same.
320. Sec. III. If any mason or carpenter shall not build or 1'0-Workmlllt
pair any house by him undertaken to be built or repaired, according L’§,§’,I‘; J,“
to his contract, the debt or demand for building or repairing the same °°""“"
shall constitute no encumbrance on the house so built or repaired,

or the premises.
321. Sec. IV. Any mason or carpenter having an encumbrance
on a house and premises for the debt due for the building or repairing
of the same, shall, within twelve months from the time said debt shall
become due, institute a suit for the recovery of such debt in a Court
having jurisdiction of the cause, and shall, in his declaration, de- D°¢1l1'="°n~
scribe the house and premises on which the work was donel; and on
the trial of said cause the jury shall ﬁnd the amount due according
to the evidence, and shall moreover ﬁnd specially that the same shall vmm.
‘This Act made general by Act of 1837, see. 827, and extended to painters, tin and
copper smitbsin the City of Columbus, by Acts of 1840, Pam. 123, and 1842, Pam. 123;
in the County of Richmond and City of Savannah, by Act of 1850, Pam. 278.
(1 j Cumotbe enforced in Equity, unless this remedy proves insutﬂcieut.

3 Kelly, 187.
Delivery of Possession-—Contest with other Liens.

be levied on the property described and proved in preference to any
other claim whatsoever: Prot-idcd, The claim of the plaintifff shall
have been recorded according to law; and the Court shall award
um Illed, judgment and execution accordingly; and on the failure so to sue on

:ff.,‘,i°,,';.f§,',' said debt and prove the same to judgment, the said debt shall be
A" 1~'placed on the same footing of any other simple contract or claim, and
the said house and premises shall stand discharged from the incum
brance created by this Act.
Delivery of
322. Sec. V. On the building or repairing of any house, the
§\t)>:le|T:rﬂ_:r_ same shall be delivered over to the possession and enjoyment of the
f“‘“'‘’ “°“' person for whom the same was built or repaired, without aﬁecting the
lien created by this Act.
“Dremisca
323. Sec. VI. Whenever any house and lot, or house and lands,

ii‘|‘-iii‘-\r';i1:'it'|:rSLll)_l8Ct to the incumbrancc herein created, shall be seized and sold
§,°,",,;',“;,',f,'f°‘ by authority of any process or decree of any Court in this State, the
°'“'same shall passto the purchaser free from such encumbrance, which in
cumbrance shall attach to the proceeds of the sale in the hands of the
“W6 1nd oﬂicer making it, on a notice as in cases of claim to money raised
clum.
under execution, which notice With the money shall be returned to
the Court by the said officer.
lune.
324. Sac. VII. Whenever a claim of money made under the fore
going section shall be disputed by either the plaintifff or defendant in
the execution, process, or decree on which the money was raised,
the Court to which the return is made shall retain the amount there
of in the hands of the Clerk, and order an issue to be made up to try
the validity of the claim; upon the trial of which issue, should itbe
determined against the claimant, he shall be adjudged to pay dama
Damage; ges to the person entitled to the money, not exceeding twenty per
centum, as the Juryr may assess, with interest from the date of the no
tice to retain, and costs.

Persons‘
holdmg oth325. SEC. VIII.
Any person or persons holding a lien on the
N |im,...,.,.pren1rscs on which any building 1s about to be erected or repaired,

‘“'° “““°"' may give notice to the mason or carpenter about to build or repair a
house on said premises, before the said building or repairs shall be com
Aﬂrrnotico menced, not to proceed therewith ; and if the said mason or carpenter,
'rI|l;\'lO:cl;I1‘:2:-u after having received such notice, shall proceed with said building or

‘°"“°'

AlI_law_|

repairs, the said mason or carpenter shall hold his lien on the said
house and premises, subject to the encumbrance of the person thus
notifying him.
326. Sec. IX. All laws giving master masons and carpenters or

{',.“}',f‘,.'.,',',f,"' masons and carpenters liens or encumbrances on houses erected or
§,,'1’:,';, repaired, or materials found by them, be, and the same are hereby
repealed: Provided, however, that liens and encumbrances created

or attached by any of the aforesaid laws shall be held good and val
id in Law and Equity.

An Act to extend to the several Counties in this State the provisions
of an Act entitled “An Act to give masons and carpenters an in
cumbrance for debts due on account of work done, and materials

furnished in building or repairing houses, on such houses and the
Summary process to enforce all liens on pcrsonalty.

premises to which they may be attached ; and to npeal all laws on
this subject, sofar as relates to the Counties of Richmond and .McIntosh, and in the Cities of Savannah, Macon and Columbus ;”
passed on the 22d Dee. 1834.—Assented to Dec. 28, 1837. Pam.
169.
327'. See. I. Be it enacted, That all the provisions of an Act /\ﬂor1=3-1
entitled “An Act to give masons and carpenters an ineurnbrance for iii.“C We‘
debts due on account of work done, and materials furnished, in build
ing or repairing houses, on such houses and the premises to which
they may be attached; and to repeal all laws on this subject, so far
as relates to the Counties of Richmond and McIntosh, and in the

Cities of Savannah, Macon and Columbus ;” passed on the 22d Dec.
1834, be and the same are hereby extended to all the Counties of
this State, and that all laws militating against this Act he, and they
are hereby repealed.

' An Act to amend an Act entitled an Act to give all persons employed on
steamboat: and other water-crq/ls on the Chattahoochee, Altamaha and
Ocmulgee rivers, alien on said steamboats or water-crafts, for his, her
or their whges, and 1221' wood and provisions furnished, and to point

out and jhcilitate the mode of the collection Q/h the same, assen/ed to
Dec. 1lth,_ 1S41,* so as to include all liens on personal property un
der certain regulations, and_/br other purposes.-—Approvcd Dec. 24,
1847. Pam. 214.
lVhereas,1in many cases, persons having liens upon personal prop
erty, created by the Common Law or the Statute Law of force in
this State, have no power to sell the same, whereby manifest injus
tice rcsults to such persons, and frequently the delay works injury to
both debtoriand creditor-for remedy whereof,
328. See. I. Be it cnucled, That from and immediately after Pummm
prucr-as to

the passage of this Act, the above recited Act shall be so amendedas ....r.,,.~.-inn.

to authorize any person or persons, who, by the principles of the ‘,‘,'.‘_*“'""“"‘
Common Law or the Statute Law of force in this State, or which
may be hereafter enacted, have or shall have a lien on personal prop
erty within the limits of this State, to pursue the course pointed out
by said above recited Act, by applying, in proper person or by
attorney or agent, to one of the Justices of the Peace of the district in
which the said personal property may be at the time of such appli,
cation, where the debt does not exceed thirty dollars, or to the Judge
of the Superior, or one of the Justices of the Inferior Court of the
County where the said personal property may be, at the time of such
application, where the sum sworn to shall notf exceed thirty dollars;
and by making affidavit before him of the amount due him, her or Aﬁidarit.
them, and the nature of the lien, and how the same has occurred,

and upon what personal property the said lien has attached, and
thereupon alllthe provisions of the said recited Act, of which this Act
‘For this Act and the several Act-s nmcndatory thereof, see " Internal Transport»
ti-tn," Art. Il. " Stcarnbonts. Sec," sac. 109, et seq.

1" Not" is evidently a mistake iucnrolling.
Coats—Execution—Iuum

is an amendment, shall apply, and the same proceedings shall be had,
as provided for by said recited Act, so far as the same can be applica
To be proce
le hereto :"" Provided, that he, she or they shall demand and prose
ruu-rl in 19
cute the collection of the same, as provided for in said recited Act,
months.
at any time within twelve months after the same shall become due
Demand. - and payable: And provided, also. That no such proceeding shall be
had until the demand for the payment of such lien shall ﬁrst be made
upon the owner or owners, or their agents and attorneys in fact, if
they or any of them reside within the County where such proceed
ings shall be had, and refusal to 'pay the same shall have been made.
Aﬁilavit in
M9. Sec. II. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to
rues nf
utumboatl, repeal so much of said recited Act as requires the atﬁdavit to bemadc,
kc.
in the cases speciﬁed in said Act, or any Act heretofore passed
ameudatory of the same, before a Judge of the Superior or Justice of
the inferior Court, or one of the Justices of the Peace of the district
in which said steamboat or other water craft may then lie, upon the
same arriving at the landing, port or place of destination to which the
same has been freighted; but that the said alﬁdavit shall, in the cas
es provided for by said recited Act, or any Act heretofore passcfl
8lIi<flld.3t0!'Y of the same, continue to be made as provided for by
Judgment
ﬁr coats.

En-cution.

I snuc hy
ow nor or
claunamt.

said Act.
330. Sac. III.

'
In all cases, both under said recited Act and all

Acts amendatory thereof heretofore passed, and in all cases provided
for by this Act, it shall be the duty of the Judge or Justice before
whom the aﬂidavit shall be made, to direct the Clerk to enter up
judgment for the costs of such proceedings, and any interest
that may be due or may become due, as well as for the principal debli
as provided for in said recited Act ; and it shall be the duty of the
said Clerk, or the Justice of the Peace, when proceedings are had be
fore a Justice, to issue execution for such costs and interest.
331. Sec. IV. In no case shall the said execution so issued be
levied on any other property except such as shall be subject to slwll
lien; and it shall be lawful for the owner or other person claiming
the said personal property, or his agent or attorney, not only to con
text such claim or demand on the ground that the same or some pan
tln~reof is not due and owing, as provided for in the third section ‘Of
said recited Act, but also to contest the existence of any lien therein,
by making aﬂidavit denying the existence of such lien, and givmg

bond as provided for in said third section of said Act, and such
proceedings shall thereupon be had as are directed in said third sec‘
tion of said recited Act.
Sec. V. All laws and parts of laws militating ‘against this Act»
be and the same are hereby repealed.
‘For this Act and the several Acts amcndatory thereof, see " Internal 'I‘ﬂm!P°m"
ﬁ0:1." Art. 11. uStea1nboat.s, 8:0." sec. 109,ct seq.
Limitation of Actions—For the recovery of land, seven years.
332. See. I. Be it enacted, That all writs of formedoni in de- Actions of
scender, formodon in remainder, and formedon in revertcr, of any f,{f,°,','§},°{'§-,
lands, tenements, hercditamcnts, or any other writ, suit or action -‘v,f:'::£f;
whatsoever, at any time hereafter to be sued or brought, by occa.- memes

sion or means of any title or cause heretofore accrued, happened or
fallen, or which may hereafter descend, happen, or fall, shall be
sued and taken within seven years next after the passing of this
Act, or after the title and cause of action shall or may descend or
accrue to the same, and at no time after the said seven years ;” and
‘For Act limiting applications for ccrtioraries to six months, see Art. V. " Ccrtiora
ries," &e. see. 231.

As to enforcement of judgments against purchasers who have been in possession
without notice, see Art. III. " Action," “Verdicts, Judgments," &c. sec 138, of this

title.
For Act limiting the time for entering caveats to wills, see “ Executnrs, Administra
tors," &c. sec. 195.

For Acts limiting the time for making election and application for dowcr, see title
“ Dower," secs. 1, 8, 9.

For Ac.‘s limiting the time within which minors may commence suit against executor,
administrator, or guardian dismissed, see “ Executors, Administrators," &c.,sec. 165.
For limitation as to indictments, sec “ Penal Laws," sec. 328.
+'l'his Act was repealed 7th Dec. 1805--,'>urtially revived by Act of 20th June, 1806,

and fully revived Sth Dec. 1806, and all lIllllt{\l'.lllg|ACtS repealed. The Act of H505, c0n—
sequently, is of force only when it does not con_/lict with this Act.
1'1‘hcsc writs are obsolete, since the abolition of entails.
(1.) As to effect of Statutes of Limitation in Courts of Equity, see8K0lly, 383, 7 Ga. 154,

8 Ga. 97, 106, 511.
(2.) If the claimant be dead at the time of its accrual, the Statute does not run until
administration is granted. 1 Kelly, 379, 538. 6 Ga. 310. Equity may enjoin. 7 Ga. 539.
Adverse possession for seven years, creates a good title. 4 Ga. 116, 5 Ga. 40.
As to what is adverse possession, 4 Ga. llﬁ, 308 ; 5 Go. 6.
The Statutedoes not run against the State. 4 Ga. 116.
Fraud as a replication to the Statute. 4 Ga. 808, 8 Go. 1.

The Statute does not run the twelve months in which suit cannot be brought against
administrator or executor. 5 Ga. 66.
The ~ri_//ht qf entry is barred as well as the right of action. 5 Ga. 261.
The Statute docs notrun until the grant is issued. 6 Ga. 158.
This Statute does not apply to widow's dowcr. 7 Ga. 20.
If the tenant disclaims title, the Statute does not run. 7 Ga. 381.
In cases of trust, see 8 Ga. 97.
Disabilitzies-—Twenty years‘ possession.

Or 3 years
after remo
val of disa~
Liliiy.

that no person or persons that now hath or have, or which here
after may have, any right or title ofentry into any lands, tenements, or
hereditaments, shall at any time hereafter make any entry, but with
in seven years next after the passing of this Act, or after his or their
right or title shall or may descend or accrue to the same ; and in de
fault thereof, such person so not entering, and their heirs, shall be
utterly excluded and disabled from such entry after to be made:
Provided nevertheless, that if any person or persons that isor shall
be entitled to such writ or writs, or that hath or shall have such

right or title of entry, be, or shall be at the time of such right or ti
tle ﬁrst descended, accrued, come, or fallen, within the age of one
and twenty years, feme coverts, mm compos rnentis,1 imprisoned, or
beyond-seas,* that then such person and persons, and his andtheir
heir and heirs, shall or may, notwithstanding the said seven years are
expired, bring his, her, or their action, or make his, her, or their en
try, as he, she, or they might have done before this Act, so as such
person and persons, or his, her or their heir and heirs, shall, within
three years next after his, her or their full age, discoverture, coming of
sound mind, enlargement out of prison, or returning trom beyond
seas, take beneﬁt of and sue for the same, and at no time after the
said three years.
And for the better and more perfect quieting of men’s possessions
and estates, and avoiding of suits,
Quiet pas
"-ssion for

333. Sec. II.

Be it enacted, That all and every person and per

'}1Jy'n,good sons whatsoever, now in possession of any lots, lands, tenements.
Iirle.

or hereditaments whatsoever, within this province, derived from any
grant, allotment, or other power or authority whatsoever, by, frmn.
or under the late trustees for establishing this colony, or their presi
dent and assistants, or from any other person or persons whatsoever
under their authority, or by or from any grant from his late tnajes1}3
(of blessed memory,) or from his present majesty, or by or under RH)’
last will and testament, purchase or purchases, whether by deed 0i
gift, bill of sale, or other conveyance whatsoever, for lawful or valu
able consideration, and where the person or persons now in the p0-‘r
session
hold, and
of claim
the said
the lands,
same, as
tenements,
of his, her,
or orhereditameuts,
their own proper
do riglitlﬁ
fee simple, and the 'person or persons so in possession, or the perio"
or persons under whom they cla;'n1, have severally or successively
been quietly possessed of the same under any of the titles, ways or
means aforesaid, and without lawful interruption by suit or action at
law actually commenced, enjoyed the same for the space of twen
ty years before the passing of this Act, that then such person W
persons so in possession as aforesaid, shall have good right and title
to the same, and shall have, hold, and enjoy the said lands, tare
ments, and hereditamezits unto him, her, or them, his, her or It-“-“J
heirs or assigns fo/ever in fee simple, against all and every other W’
‘See Act of 181?, sec. 361, as to idiots, hmatics and infants, and sec. 352, asmpemr
beyond seas.
.

(1.) Statute nmsfnm restoration tosaeity.

7 Ga. 484.
son and persons whatsoever, any thing hereinbefore contained to the
contrary notwithstanding.
Unrloulalm
334. Sec. III. Not only the person or persons who are or shall ants
barred
be hereafter barred, by not suing or prosecuting his or their claims to in like man
ner.
any lands, tenements, or hereditaments in this province within the
time limited by this Act, but also all manner of persons whatsoever,
that shall at any time claim under such person or persons, who have
lost or may hereafter lose their right, by neglecting to sue and pros
ecute his or their claim as aforesaid, shall be in like manner barred
by this Act, as his, her or their ancestor or ancestors, or those under
whom they claim, were or would have hereby been, and that this This Act

to

he iven in
Act, and such clause or clauses herein as relate to the matters afore ovi
once [0
the
said, may be given in evidence to a Jury upon a trial of any claim, Jury.
matter, or right to any lands or tenements in question between party
and party, and that the Chief Justice and Judges upon all such
trials shall allow the same to be given in evidence, so far as con
cerns the said matter in difference.
And to prevent any disputes how claims are to be made to lands,
and what claims shall be allowed to be good and effectual in this
province, and that the possessors of lands may know how and in
what manner other persons having or laying claim to any lands or
tenements in their possession must claim the same, and also that per
sons having right or title to lands or tenements possessed by others
may the better know how to claim or demand their right in such
case.
Claims to
335. Sec. IV. Be it enacted, That all and every person and per lands
in he
sons whatsoever, making claim to any lands or tenements in this by suitbonly.
province, in order to make such claim effectual, shall and are to make
the same by action at Law, duly entered in the general Court of Pleas
in this province,* and that the Chief Justice and Judges of the said
Court do allow of no claim to any lands or tenements, for or by any
person or persons, in any suit or suits that may be brought, sued, or
prosecuted in the said Court, other than what is or has been made
by action or suit on record as aforesaid, any law, custom, usage, or
practice to the contrary notwithstanding.
336. Sec. V. All actions of trespass quare clausum fregit, all Personal ac tions,
actions of trespass, detinue, actions of trover and replevin, for tak
ing away goods and cattle, all actions upon account and upon the
case, (other than such accounts as concern the trade of merchandize
between merchant and merchant, their factors or servants,T all ac
tions of debt grounded upon any lending or contract without spe
cialty, all actions of debt for arrearages of rent,) and all actions of
assault, menace, and battery, wounding and imprisonment, or any of
them, which shall be sued or brought at any time after the passing of
this Act, shall be commenced and sued within the time and limita
tion hereinafter expressed, and not afterwards,I that is to say, the

‘Superior Court of the County where the land lies by the Constitution of 1798.
‘l'The second member of the armthesis should. be here. The mistake being in the
enrolling, it cannot be con
.
1'Expl1sined by Act of 18”, sec. 356.
Reversal or arrest ofjudgment—Diselairner—Damagea.

em,ac- said actions upon the case, (other thin for slander,) and the said account, tmss- .
puss debt, tions for account, and the said actions for trespass, debt, detmue, and
;',j’§i,',f‘,‘i",;I replevin for goods and cattle, and the said actions of trespass quare
'°"'!’°“* clausum fregit, within three years next after the passing of this Act,
or within four years next after the cause of such actions or suits, and

Trel:;pabssl.tns»- not after ;1 and the said actions of trespass, assault, battery, wound

_:;?ty’0ul._lf ing, imprisonment, or any of them, within one year after the passing
"‘""“"""'
onment,
two of
{_‘;':-,m,

this Act, or within two years next after the cause of such action

or suit, and not after; and the said actions upon the case for words,

::)Jlrllll;;;_Hi1 within six months after the passing of this Act, or within six months
next after the words spoken, and not after.""
:"°e::,°(f,
337. Sec. VI. If in any of the said actions or suits, judgment shall
ﬁlgslsgnlgay be given for the plaintiff, and the same be reversed by error, or a ver
be'l'e'r\t.'W0ll dict pass for the plalntitf, and upon matter alleged in arrest of Judg

,',',':,'_"’ °“° ment, the judgment be given against the plaintifff, that he take noth
ing by his plaint, writ, or bill, or if any the said actions shall be
brought by original, and the defendants therein be outlawed, and shall
after reverse the outlawry, that in all such cases the party plaintifff,
his heirs, executors, or administrators, as the case shall require, may
commence a new action or suit from time to time, within a year af
ter such judgment reversed, or such judgment given against the
plaintifff, or outlawry reversed, and not after.T
,'§',§,'§,',‘,;“§"
In all actions of trespass quare clausum fregii,

:,“:m'§,{‘,;‘s°' hereafter to be brought, wherein the defendant or defendants shall
WWI lubeadisclaim in his or their plea, to make any title or claim to the land
harm future .
.
actions.
111 which the trespass is by the declaration supposed to be done, and
the trespass be by negligence, or involuntary, the defendant or de
fendants shall be admitted to plead a disclaimer, and that the trespass
was by negligence or involuntary, and a tender or offer of suﬂiment
amends for such trespass before the action brought, whereuponZ _0I
upon some of them, the plaintifff or plaintifffs shall be enforced to 101“
issue, and if the said issue be found for the defendant or defendants,

or the plaintifff or plaintifffs shall be nonsuited, the plaintifff or p'a1l}'
tiffs shall be clearly barred from the said actions, a.nd all other Sllll
concerning
the same.
In ﬂamlnr,
,
.
d;t!t1IlI{t\¢ _|m- 339. Sec. VIII. In all actions upon the case for slanderous words,
‘"40
“"“' to be sued or prosecuted by any person or persons in the General
lings no
:',§,“,,°“°,j",',‘_ Court in this province, or in any other Court having power to hold
{@9

*Legislative opinion as to the Statue of Limitation running against the Sum, AC5
of 1883, page 383.

'i“ln case of dismissal, or non-suit, may be rc-commenced in six months. See A6 '1‘
1847, see. 355.
(1.) The Statute having commenced to run against an action to recover personnlty, is 11°‘
stopped by defendant's removal from the State. 5 Ga. 217.
To raise a new promise by implication. there must be an unqualiﬁed acknowledgment °“
present subsisting debt. 5 Ga. 486, 6 Ga. 588.
Where anew promise is relied on, it should he pleaded. 6 Ga. 21. If not pleaded W
plaintifff may amend. Beard vs. Simmons. 9 Ga. Rep.
The mgﬂr“-ciency of a promise i a question for the Court; thefact is a question for the 1"‘!
6 Ga. 486. As to condztiovuzl promise, see 6 Ga. 486.
A new promise to prior holder of promissory note may be sued on by subsequent hold“
7 Ga. 505.
Limitation on suits for ﬁnes and forfeiturcs—Ejcctmcnt.

plea of the same, after the passing of this Act, if the Jury upon the
trial of the issue in such action, or the Jury that shall inquire of the
damages, do ﬁnd or assess the damages under forty shillings, then
the plaintifff or plaintifffs in such action shall have and recover only
so much costs as the damages so given or assessed amount unto, with
out any further increase of the same, any law, Statute, custom, or
usage to the contrary in any wise notwithstanding.1
Sec. IX. [Allowing further time to bring actions after the re
moval of plaintni"s disability—transcribed into the Act of 1806, with
aslight alteration. See sec. 346.]2
340. Sec. X. In all and every case where any penalty,'ﬁne, or for- Limitatio
fur the row

feiture whatsoever, hath been, or shall hereafter be inﬂicted or im- ve§yrofrﬁ_nol
an

0|‘ 0|‘

posed by any Act or Acts of the General Assembly of this Province uresnotolh.
already passed, or hereafter to be passed, and the time of suing or ‘;{,‘,",,i;°Rf’,f°'
prosecuting the oifender or offenders, against such Acts not thereby
provided, no information, action, suit, or prosecution shall be had,
brought, issued, or commenced against the offender or offenders,
against any such Act or Acts, for or in respect of any such penalty,
ﬁne or forfeiture, unless the same be done within six months after

the passing of this Act, if the offense hath been already committed,
and within the like space of time after the offense committed, for
the future; and all and every offender and offenders against any such
Act or Acts, shall not from thenceforth be subject or liable to any
penalty, ﬁne, or forfeiture which may thereby be inﬂicted or impos
ed, any law, usage, or custom to the contrary in any wise nothwith
standing.
Snc. XI. [Respecting a claim of Sir William Baker—private.]
An Actfor the limitation of actions, andfor avoiding suits at law,_
and to repeal the Act passed on that subject the 26th Zlfarch, 176‘;-‘,.
for the batter and more Q7'ectuaZZ;l/ quieting mens’ possessions qy;d,‘
estales, amI_/or auoidmg suits in law.*-Assented to Doc. 7, Q805.
Vol. II. 269.
341. Sec. I. All actions of ejectment, or any other suit or; actiQ;_1f|{,°f{'§‘:“‘
whatsoever, at any time hereafter, to be sued or brought for the 1-Q,_;>l?0.\lat;l,l.Illl

covery of any lands or tenements, by occasion or means, of any title I
which may hereafter descend, happen, or fall, shall be sued and tak,
en within seven y<:u'.'s next after the title and cause of action shall
or nny dc:~cend or ar-cruc to the same, and at no time after the said

seven years: P/'0u4'(lcr.l nevertheless, that if any person or persons that
is or shall be entitled to such suit or action, be or shall be at the time
of right or title ﬁrst descended, accrued, come, or fallen, within the
‘By the Act of December, 1806, reviving the Act of 1767, all Acts are repealed
which militate against the intent and meaning of that Act. Portions of this Act ev-1
dently are thus repealed. The compiler, however, conceives it to be the duty of the
Courts, and not of the Digestcr, to declare this inconsistency. The Act is thereforee in

Berted in full, the reader noting that where this Act and that of 1767 come in conﬂict,
the latter is the law.
(1.) Verdict for “ ten cents and the costs,"-110 more cost: than damages. 5 Ga. 452.
Q.) Repealed, Winn vs. Lee. 5 00. R7. 211.
Foreign Judgmeuts—Defendant removing his property or absconding.

Saving in age of twenty-one years, feme covert, mm compos mentis, or impris
favor of Inoued, that then such person or persons shall be at liberty, notwith

standing the said seven years are expired, to bring such action or suit,
soas that the same be brought within three years after his, her,
or their coming to, or being of full age, discovert or sane memory, or
at large, and at no time after the said three years.
342. Sec. II. All actions of trespass, detinue and trover; all ac
tions of debt, whether upon specialty or simple contract ; all actions
of assault, menace, and battery, wounding, and imprisonment, or
any of them which shall be sued or brought at any time after the
passing of this Act, shall be commenced and sued within the time
and limitation hereinafter expressed, and not afterward, that is to
T"J"P”',"*say, the said actions of trespass, assault, battery, wounding, impris
nuk,6r.c.
.
.
*
wnhin one onment, or any of them, within one year next after the cause of
iiliii;re,am such action or suit hath accrued, and not after.

And the said ac

”°"*

tions of detinue,trover, debt, (other than upon judgments,) with

Fmizn

crued, and not after; and the said actions of debt upon judgments

in four years next after the cause of such actions or suits have ac
§'1‘ii‘:'°“" 5obtained in Courts, other than the Courts of this State, within ﬁre

years next1 after the judgment shall have been obtained, and not af
ter. And the said actions upon the case for words, within onei year
next after the words spoken, and not after. Provided nevertheless,
Sat'ing in r.1- that if any person or persons who is or shall be entitled to any such

‘;',f’¢',°"'“"O"actioris of dctinue, trover, debt, (other than upon judgments,) he cr
shall be at the time of any such action given or accrued, within the
age of twenty-one years, feme covert, non compos mantis, or impris
oned, that then such person or person shall be at liberty notwith
standing the times of limitation shall have expired, to bring such
actions or suits, so that the same be brought within lu-01 years next
after the coming to or being of full age, discovert, of sane memory, or at large, and at no time after the said twoi years. And pro
vided also, that if any person who is or or shall be entitled to any

such actions of trespass, assault, menace, and battery, and impris
onment, be, or shall be at the time, any such action shall have ac

crued, within the age of twenty-one years, feme covert, non cmnpna‘
meuris, or nnprisoned, then such person or persons shall be at lib
erty, notwithstanding the time hereinbefore limited for the bringing
of such action shall have expired, to bring such actions or suits, S0
that the same be brought witlnn onej; year next after the coming [0
or being of full age, discovert, of sane memory, or at large, and at
no time after the said oneI year; and that the commencing an action

or actions within the time limited, and afterwards discontilniing orb?
coming non-suit in the same, shall not defeat the operation of thb‘
Act,
gflfglgﬂslis 343. Sec. III. Wh_en_any person or persons shall remove his
property or property without the lnnrts of this State, or absconds or concetllS
irzziliiigtingi himself, so that his creditors cannot commence an action, the per-8°11
the buetitot

““' ‘°“

‘Two years, as by Act of 1767.

rsn months, by Act of 1767.

}But see Act of 1806, see. 346.
(1.) Inforcc still. 6 Ga. Rep. 34.

be

III
Removal of disabilitics—Defendants without the State.

so removing his property, or absconding himself, shall not be enti
tled to the beneﬁt of this Act, but shall be answerable for any just
demand against him, her, or them ;I and this Act shall be deemed,

held, and taken as a public Act, and the Judges of the Superior and

Justices of the Inferior Courts and Justices of the Peace within this :::,",‘,f,e’,}‘,:;,
State, shall be bound thereby, although the same shall not be pleaded. M P'°ld'4
344. Sec. IV. All actions upon the case other than for words Cm,4 y’n
whieh shall be said, (sued,) or brought at any time after the passing
of this Act, shall be commenced and sued within four years next after
the cause of such action or suit ‘hath accrued, and not after.
S1-:0. V. [Rcpeals the Act of 1767, but by Act of June, 1806, it
was partially, and by Act of Dec. 1806, fully revived]

Act of 26th June, 1806.

Vol. II.- 303.

SEC. I. [Provided for the renewal of suits commmenced within
time and dismissed. Repealed by the Act of December, 1806, as
declared by the Supreme Court.9]
Sec. II.

[Revives the Act of 1767, as to all “actions and causes

of action which originated under it.”]
An Act to revive and continue in force “ an Actjbr the lirnjtalion of
actions, and avoiding Suits in Law,” passed the 26th day of

March, 1767 ; and to amend the 5th /md 9th sections of said Act.
Approved Dec. 8, 1806.,
345. See. I. From and immediately after the passing of this Act, Actof 1101
the Act for the limitation of actions and avoiding suits in law, pass- l§$'.;”f§m.b.
ed on the 26th day of March, 1767', shall be, and is hereby revived 1793'
and declared to be in full force and operation, from the ﬁrst day of
February, 1793, until this Act shall be repealed: And no deduction
in any calculation of time shall be made in the construction of said
Act after the aforesaid ﬁrst day of February, lT93.*
3-16. Sec. II. If any person or persons, that is or shall be enti
tlcd to any such action of trespass, dctinuc, action of trover, rcplevin, therelnovll
actions of account, actions of debt, actions of trespass for assault, {’,‘ef,"“""l“
menace, battery, wounding, or imprisonment, actions on the ease for
words, be, or shall be at the time of any such cause of action, giv

en or accrued, fallen, or come within the age of twenty-one years,1'
feme covert, non compos mcnris,‘,' imprisoned, or where the defendant
sh/J-ll remove out qf the jzlrisrlicliulzal limits of this S/atc,1' that thc11 or I1|\:hr:itIv1r$
such person or persons shall be at liberty to bring the same actions, umpsme.
so as they take the same within such times as before is limited, at‘
ter their coming to, or being of full age, discovcrt, of sane memory,
at large, or the return of the defendant into the same, as by other
‘See note at the end of this subdivision.
1500 Act of 181?, sec. 361, See also Act of 1839, see. 35?.
(1.) Sec 5 Ga. Rep. 217.

(2.) Harrison Q Wright vs. lValk-er

1 Kelly 34.
persons having no such impediment should be done?

Provided

nevertheless, that all notes, and instruments of writing, not under

seal, bearing date after the passing of this Act, shall be of the same
dignity with specialties, and subject to the same limitations hereto
fore in force in the case of specialties, any thing in the 5th and 9th
sections of the said Act to the contrary notwithstanding.T
SEO. III. All Acts or parts of Acts which militate against the
intent and meaning of this Act, he, and the same are hereby re
pealed.
Sec. IV. [Relative to IValton County—rendercd obsolete by
tl1c settlement of the North Carolina line.]

An Act to amend an Act, to revive and continue in _/brce an Ad for
the limz'tation of Actions, and avoidil/g Suits in Law : passui Silt
Den-ember, l806.—Approved December 13, 1809. Vol. II. 537.
IVhereas, some doubts exist as to the period at which bonds, notes,
and open accounts, shall be limited, in consequence of the word
specialties, and other indeﬁnite expressions, being used in the second
section of the aforesaid Act;

:'.)\rn;i0tan|r;3r:n_ 34?. See. I. Be it enacted, (Ye. That from and after the passing
strumsnts, of this Act, all actions, founded on bonds or mstruments under seal,
2°’°"* shall be commenced and sued within twenty years after the said
bond or1 other instrument shall become due, and not after; and that
Notcn,6y’rs all actions founded upon notes, and other acknowledgments. under
the hand of the party, shall be commenced withinJ six years9 from
the time such note or acknowledgment shall become due, and notat
Owl M f- ter; and that all actions founded upon open account shall be com

“‘“"“'” rsmenced within four years from the time such account accrued, and
not after.
Sec. II. All Acts and parts of Acts that militate against this
law, shall be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend an Act entitled “An Act for the limitation of at‘
Ir'on.s, and for zwoidhzg Suits in Luw.”—Approved December 2,

1813.

Vol. III. 30.

\ Whereas, divers persons, during the time this State was a British
province, obtained grants for lands within the same, and during the
‘Thus far this section is a transcript of the IXth of the Act. of 1767, excepting the
port in italics, in lieu of which that Act had an exception in favor of plaintiﬂls 1)!-‘)’°Bd
seas.
1’See next Act, and also Act of 1839, see. 353.
\
(1-) Damages for breach of a bond, is a claim founded on a sealed instrument, and H1115
20 years. 8 Ga. 106.
\Vhcn amortgage is taken to secure a note, the note being barred, does not bar the retnﬂ
dy on the mortgage. 8 Ga. 325.
K (2.) Sec8 Ga. 325.

Where the action is on a Statute, the statutory limitation is 20 years. 8 Ga 463.
Foreign Granteea—Disabi1ities.

revolutionary war, and at the expiration thereof, ﬂed from this State,
orpwho never resided therein: And whereas, divers persons, good
citizens of this State, have since the revolution unknowingly sur-,
veyed and obtained grants for all, or a large part, of many of the
aforesaid old surveys, or have become purchasers, and have settled,
cultivated, and greatly improved the same, defending and supporting
this State ; and reason and justice reqrnre that they should not be
disturbed in their possessions at this late period: for remedy whereof,
See. I. Be it enacted, LS"C. That no person or persons claiming any rmrrn
lands, tenements, or hereditaments, by virtue of any grant or grants §£EL“,“2S’m¢
prior to the revolutionary war, and who never resided in said prov- §§,",‘,‘,“,f,"'
ince,return
or who
ﬂed
from this. State
during thatyears
struggle,
and treaty
who did
"°‘ “’“'"‘°"
. State within
.
ad b
not
to this
twenty-one
after the
of byzilrns-I’
peace with Great Britain, which was in the year 1783, to make their vg'y‘:nun’;::

entry thereon, settle, or cultivate the same, or any part thereof, shall '°““""
either he, she, or they, or any person or persons claiming under him,
her, or them, hereafter recover any such parts thereof as may have
been since granted, from any person or persons, who has or have
since the revolution obtained a grant or grants, settled, or cultivated
the same, or any part thereof, for the term of seven years in peacea
ble possession; nor from any person or persons claiming under such
young title as aforesaid, where there has beenan adverse possession
for the aforesaid term of seven years!‘
,
349. Sec. II. No saving or exception in any Statute of Limita- Such gran
tions in this State, providing for the claims of persons resident be- :fﬁ°,Z§"i,'yb§,”'

yond seas, shall operate or be so construed as to beneﬁt any persons §,‘;l;'§L°::"
whose grants have issued prior to the revolutionary war, and who
are now subjects of the crown of Great Britain and other foreign
nations.*
350. Sec. III. Nothing in this Act contained shall affect or be Thi;AetM
construed to affect any lands belonging to, or that ever did belong to r‘él2m';';r‘°"'*
any person or persons, named in the Act of conﬁscation and banish- land‘
ment, or bill of attainder, or any right which this State has to con
ﬁscated lands, or any right which any citizen of the United States,
or citizen of this State, may have to any of said lands.
An Act (U7Lt’7l'l(lf0t'_t/ to, mid 6.'L'jll(lllt1lO7'1/ of the Statute ofLz'nu'ta
tions in this State ; passed the 7th Dec. 1805, so ﬂu as it regards
Idiots, Lunatics and In/'ants.—Approved Dec. 18, 1817. Vol.

III. 31.
Wlrereas, many evils and inconveniences may arise from the con
struction given to the before recited Act, by which the savings and
exceptions in favor of idiots, lunatics and infants, mentioned in said
Act, are totally defeated, and manifest injustice done thereby:
351. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, (Ye. That from and after the passage Cbns_trne
of this Act, no Court of Justice in this State, before whom the plea §,'}’i"d,!,',‘ul:"|§1'.
of the Statute of Limitations may be relied on or plead by any de— ,';;‘,‘L°,’:;_f""
~

‘But see treaty of 1794 with Great Britain, Art. IX. 8 Statutes at Large, 122, and

treaty with Spain of 1795I Art. IL--8 Statutes at Large, 144.
ally superaedin; this entire Act.

See also next Act vi.rt;u.
fendant or defendants, shall be permitted to construe said Act against
idiots, lunatics, or infants, as heretofore construed; but said Statute
of Limitations, when it has commenced running, shall not so operate
as to defeat the interest ‘ acquired by idiots, lunatics, or infants, af
ter its commencement, but the operation of said Statute shall cease
until the disability or disabilities of such persons are removed, or
from the time of the arrival of such infzint at the iige of twenty-one
years ;2 any law, custom, or usage to the contrary notwithstanding.
l\'(\PwM_ﬁ1
352. Sec. II. No proviso or part of the above—rccited Act, or any
In be derived
.
.
.
.
$!::(l:el‘9;\:<t of other part or parts of any Statute of Limitations, which are or hereto
M Sum,

fore have been of force in this State, shall be so construed as to

grant any privilege, right, or exemption, to any person or persons,
who may reside in either of the United States, or the Territories
thereof, or beyond seas, or elsewhere, other than those enjoyed by
the citizens resident within the limits of this State.

An Act to amend an Actlo rwive and continue in force an Act for
the Limitation of Actions, and avoiding Suits in Law, pasted

the 8th December, 1806, approved December 131h,l8U9.—A-S‘
sentcd to Dec. 23, 1839. Pam. 147.
_
1ai;.r;r:;1:.w;‘t
_353. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage Of
or remnviiig this Act, all actions founded on bonds, or iiistrunicnts under seal, shall
be commenced and sued within twenty years after the bond or otht?r

‘,'§i,_“°°” ll°‘iiistrumei'it shall become due, except where persons shall abscond Or
remove without the limits of this State ; and that all actions found
ed upon notes {1I‘l(l.Oll1C1‘ acknowledgments under the hand of the
party, shall be commenced within six years from the time such

note or acknowledgments shall become due, and not after, except
the
person
persons
shall have removed
State,
or toorparts
unknown.
I without the limits of this
l!:'irir5t‘llgr:i>i[nst
3511. Sec. II. Inallcases where any person or persons shall
’
"' come security on any bond or bonds or ‘other instruments under tlielr
hands, the Act of Limitation shall 11ot operate in any case where the
person or persons shall abscond, go to parts unknown, or IEIIIOW

witlioiit the limits of this State.
.
SEC. III. All laws or puts of laws iiiilitatiiig against this Act,
be, and the same are hereby repealed.
(1.) Such an i'ntare.rt as will enable them to maintain an action in their own D3111‘-‘by
guardian.

8 Ga. 1.

(2.) \Vherc there are tenants in coniiiioii, the disability of one does not inure in die
beneﬁt of the others.

7 Ga. 517.

If the property be removed during the minority, the Statute will run at ii1r1j0l'iiF'ir
the tort-feasor be within the jurisdiction. 7 Go. 517.
If the title vests in the executor or ndininistrator, and he is barred, the infant isai-“°'
8 Ga. 1.
'
In troyer, by several of cliiferent a gas, :1 recovery can be had in favor of those 110‘ bar’

red and against those barred.

8 Ga. 201.
Removal after non-suit, &c.—Fraud of Defendant.

An Act to amend and explain the several Acts jbr the Limitation of
Actions and avoiding Suits at Law.—Approved Dec. 29, 1847'.
Pam. 217.
355. SE0. 1. Be it enacted, That whenever any case now or -\!\_‘jr|rlil
hereafter pending in any of the Courts of this State, either at Law :li;|;‘lllil‘:I
or in Equity, commenced within the time limited by law, shall be
discontinued, dismissed, or the plaintifff therein become nonsuited,

and the plaintifff ’s claim may be barred during the pending thereof
by any law now in force in this State, the plaintifff may, at any time m=\ym1>m
rnonce with within six months from such termination of the case, and not after, mtimunllu.

renew or recommence the same, in any Court having jurisdiction
thereof in this State, any law, usage or custom to the contrary not
withstanding: Promllcd, that nothing in this Act shall be construed Once
so as to authorize the renewal of any case after a. second discontinu
ance, dismissal, or nonsuit.
356. Sec. II. When any claim or demand whatever shall be Set-otf
pleaded as a set-off, or as a defense to any suit or action, either at §|':,‘,‘,i,‘,",i{_§‘,‘,'_
Law or in Equity, in any case which may be dismissed, discontin- ,':‘,L",‘,‘:i;,‘.‘§‘
ued, or become nonsuit as aforesaid, or where such defense may be M
disposed of, without a ﬁnal hearing upon the merits thereof, that
then and in that case, all such matters of defense shall be saved from

the operation of the Statute of Limitations, under the regulations and
instructions, and for the time aforesaid.

An Act to explain the fifth section of an Act approved March 26th,
1767, entitled an Act for the Limitat1'on of Actions and avoiding
Suits in Law.—-Approved Dec. 30, 1847. Pam. 218.

357. SEC. I.

Be it enacted, §'c. ‘That nothing in the said ﬁfth :It!'c§t'of

section shall be so construed as to protect any defendant or defend-r$1'i.il'~ii'i.‘r
ants from any action at any time where the Jury are satisﬁed that mncenlment
,,,.,,,,m
there has been a fraudulent _removal or concealment of the property
in order to deprive,.the rightful owner of the possession or enjoy
ment of the same—-any law, usage or custom to the contrary not
withstanding.

SUSPENSIONS OF THE ACTS OF LIMITATION.
The Act of limitation was suspended from 1st of July, 1775, down to the 1st of Feb
ruary, 1793. See Vol. I. 36, 7.

The ﬁrst nlleviating'Act [Vol. II. 426,] was passed 23d May, 1908. and repealed the
20th Dec. of the same year, by the Act called the thirding law, [\'ol. II. 443.] If we
exclude the day the Act was passed, and include that of its repeal, we have 211 days
during which the Statutes of Limitation of actions were totally suspended, except for the
recovery of taxes and penalties, and in attachment and claim cases.

By sec. 6;-of the alleviation law of 27th Nov. 1812, [Vol. III. 34,] the Acts of Limi
tation were suspended, " except as relates to real estate," from the 80th of tlwt, month,

(sec. 1 ) to the 6th Dec. 1813, 1 year and 6 days.
This Act, however, allowed suits to be brought;
Foreclosure on real estate.

Against persons refusing to liquidate their accounts. sec. 4 ;
Against principals and suretics, at the instance of the latter, sec. 6;
Against debtors who were squandering their estates, sec. 7 :
Against delinquent executors, administrators, or guardians, sec. 13;
B y attachment against absconding debtors, sec. 12 ;
By bill in Chancery for certain purposes;
And for ﬁnes, forfeitures, and other monies due the public, or due to banks; (or
rent, and for tuition money, sec. 8.

By the supplementary Act of 6th December, 1313, [VOL III. 36,1 there was it ill!
thcr suspension until 25th December, 1814, when the Act expired; say 1 year and 19
days,
This Statute enlarged the list of exceptions in the last, and allowed actions -to to
brought also for slundero1u words, sec. 2 ; and on written instruments given for tithe
to land, sec. 5.
Year. Day‘.

To be taken out for the ﬁrst suspension, from the 23d May, 1808,

0

exclusive, to 20th Dec. 1808, inclusive,

on
'

for the second (in cases not excepted by the
Statute,) from 30th Nov. 1812, exclusive, to the 6th
Dec. 1813, inclusive,
for the third (in cases not excepted either by tltisg
Act or last,) from 6th Dec. 1813, exclusive, to 25th
Dec. 1814, inclusive,

Total,

That is to say, two years and seven calendar months, (allowing 4 of 30, and 3 of 31

days each,) and 23 days over.—1’rince.
358. Sec. XVII. The method of foreclosing mortgages on real
:li1':?Ii“cn:es estate, in this State, be as follows: Any person applying, and entitled

““°"

to foreclose such mortgage, or his, her or their attorney, shall pell
tion the Superior Court of the County wherein such mortgaged
property may be, stating the case and the amount of his, her, or
their demand, and describing such mortgaged -property; and the
Court shall grant a rule, that the princi;:n1.?Iii1tcrcst, and cost shall be
paid into Court, within twelve monthsf thereafter, which rule Shall
be published in one of the public gazettes of this State at least 011ce
in every month, until the time appointed for payment,I or served 011
the mortgager, or his special agent, at least six§ months previausl0

the time the money is directed to be paid; and unless the principal,
interest, and cost be so paid, the Court shall give judgment for
‘For the various Acts in relation to the execution and registry of mortgagﬂt thf‘-“'
lien, and the right of redemption in younger mortgage-es, see “ Conveyanocs andReg1B
trv."

For Act requiring purchaser of mortgaged property at Sheriﬁ"s sale to give b011¢l_f°l'lta
forthcoming, sec Art. III.

" Action,” " Execution, Sale," &c. Sec. 185, of thii ml‘

For Acts authorizing aliens to take mortgages on real estate and foreclose the “met
see title “Foreigners," sec. 5.
1'Six months, sec. 360 ; Rule absolute at the next term, sec. 361.

’;Four months, sec. 360.

§'1‘hree months, sec. 360.
Foreclosure on Personalty.

the amount which may _be due on such mortgage, and order the
property mortgaged to be sold in such manner as is prescribed in
cases of execution, and the money shall be paid to the mortgagee or
his attorney; but where there shall be any surplus, the same shall
be paid over to the mortgager or his agent. And in case of any dis- Dofonce. 5
pute as to the amount due on any mortgage, if the mortgager shall
appear within the time prescribed by this Act, and make affidavit that
he hath made payments which have not been credited on the
said mortgage, or that he is entitled to sets-off which in Equity ought
to be allowed, the Court shall appoint one or more ﬁt person or per
sons to audit and liquidate the same ;1 but either party shall be enti
tled to anew trial therefrom, which shall be tried in like manner as
shall be prescribed for the trial of appeals in other cases.
MORTGAGES OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

359. Sec. XVIII. Mortgages of personal property shall be fore- °n'Wmﬂ
closed in the following manner: Any person or persons’* holding a pmpmy'
mortgage on personal property, and wishing to foreclose the lune,
shall make application to one of the Judges of the Superior or Jus
tices of the Inferior Courts, and make afﬁdavit before him of the
amount of principal and interest due on such mortgage, which affi
davit shall be annexed to such mortgage, and thereupon the Clerk of
the Superior or Inferior Courts shall issue execution as on a judg
ment, which execution being delivered to the Sheriff, it shall be his
duty to levy on the property wheresoever the same may be found,
and after advertising the same in one or more of the public gazettes
of this State at least sixty days, the Sheriﬁ' shall set up and expose the
same to sale, and the money arising from such sale shall be ﬁrst
applied to discharge the amount due 011 such mortgage, and all legal
costs, and the overplus, if any, to be paid to the mortgager: Pra
vided always, that if any dispute shall happen as to the sum due on Defence.
any mortgage, that it shall and may be lawful for the said Judge or
Justices of the Inferior Courts, on aﬁidavit, to order such sale to be
postponed, the mortgager giving bond, with good and sufficient secu
rity in double the sum sworn to be due, for returning such property
when called for by the Sherilf, which bond shallbe assignable by the
She-rill~ to the mortgagee, who may sue and recover thereon ; but the
Jury shall be sworn to give at least twenty-ﬁve per cent. damages, in
case it shall appear that such application was intended for delay
only.2
‘His agent or attorney.

sec. 362.

(1.) Usury may be set up as a defense. 1 K1.'ll_r/, 892.
Thjrdpersons cannot object until made parties by the judgment of the Court.

3

Kelly, 174.

(2.) \Vhen property is sold subject to mortgage, the purchaser buys the equity‘ of
redemption. After foreclosure, the proceeds must go according to oldest lien, as agen
eral rule. 7 Ga. 188.
ltulc absolute, second term-—Attorncy or Agent may foreclose.

An Act to amend an Act entitled “ an Act to amend the Judiciary of
1799, so far as relates to Illortgages on Real Estate.”""—Approv

ed Dec. 21, 1829.

Vol. IV. 230.

Mnrtﬂgﬁi
360. From and after the passage of this Act, when any person or
tare Io he _ persons, his, her, or their agent or attorney, shall petition the Superior
,§'{,‘,§},'}‘},‘f “‘ Court as prescribed by the Judiciary of 1799, for the foreclosure of
on real cs~

Eiunonths’ any mortgage on real estate, the Court shall grant a rule directing
;‘,'.lf,,‘,‘Q_'° that the principal and cost shall be paid into Court within six months

;‘,")“,§,°;,'v‘§,”_ thereafter, which rule shall be published in one of the public ga
zettes of this State, once a month for four months, or served on the
mortgagor, or his, her, or their special agent or attorney, at least three
months previous to the time the money is directed to be paid; pro
vided that nothing in this Act shall be so construed as to alfect any
mortgage which may exist at the time of the passage of this Act.
Sec. II. So much of the said Judiciary of 1799 and of the said
amendatory Act as militates against this, is hereby repealed.
S

An Act to alter and amend the several Acts regulating the/M105‘
u-res of Mortgages upon Real Estate.—This Act approved D00

26, 1836. Pam. 164.
p-:Icu:i;‘.=o~ . 361. From and after the passage of this Act, in all cases when‘
pu<sml at any application shall be made to any Superior Court of this State
the next.
.
>
'
mm.
for the foreclosure
of any mortgage upon real
estate, it
shall be!ll?.
duty of such Court to pass an order, requiring thepmortgager to pt)’
the principal and interest due upon such niortg. '-re, into Court, on 01’
before the ﬁrst day of the next term,which order shall be served or
published in the manner now required by law ; and if such orderbﬂ
not complied with by the mortgagor, the Court may at such term;
pass arule absolute for the sale of the mortgaged property.

An Art to ameml the eighteentlt section of the Act passed on the sif
tcen//i of Feb/-ita/"_i/, 1799, entitled “ an Act to 1-evise a-ml a1W-"I111
the Jill/lCl(ll'y system of this b'tate.”—Asscnted to Dec. 21, 1839.
Pam. 137.
:,:;::n;]:r- _362. Sun. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
furor.-lose. y this Act, mortgages upon personal property may be foreclosed "Po"
the allldavit 01' the agent or attorney in fact or at law, of the pﬁ$°“
or persons holding such mortgage, as to the amount due.
_
{:|\U:2f:;§,:f Sac. ll. All such mortgage shall be foreclosed, and _executi0Il
Kesid-Selico issue, in the County where the mortgagers resided at the time of an’
execution of the same, if resident of this State.
‘This Act is omitted, being entirely superseded.
this rule to be published once a month for sh: months.

In

C

,, ,

C

(Soc vol. IV. 218,) §[l51'e‘1m.r"“J
(rxctoorso cwnxs, snnnrrrs, nronxnrs, &c.)


The Clerks of the several Courts in this cnnv-duty.

State, shall copy into abook of record, all the proceedings in all civil
cases in the said Courts respectively, \\'lllCll entry of record shall be Records.

made within forty dnysi after the dcterniiilatioii of any cause; and
the said Clerks shall be allowed the sum of ten cents for every hun
dred words of recording such proceeding, to be taxed in the bill of
cost.

And the said Clerks shall also keep regular and fair minutes of Minutes

all the proceedings in any of the said Courts, which shall be signed
by the Judge of the Superior, or presiding Justices of the Interior
Courts (as the case may be) prior to the adjournment from day to day,
364. Sec. XXXV. The Clerks of the said Superior and Inferior Muslbo

Courts, hereafter to be appointed, shall, before they enter upon the §'=‘i‘(.‘.l'r'I.’..{‘.1“'1
duties of their appointments, and after being commissioned by the “"1 ‘““'*‘*

Governor, take the following oath before one of the Judges of the
Superior Courts, or a Justice of the Inferior Court of the County : “I
do solemnly swear (or aﬁirm) that I will truly and faithfully enter rm oath.
and record all the orders, decrees, judgments, and other proceedings

of the Superior (or Inferior) Court of the County of

, and all

‘For Act authorizing officers of adjoining County to not where none are electe .1, see
Art. III. " Action," “ Commencement, &c." sec. 74 of this title.

For fees of several oﬂieers, see title “Fees."
As to liability of Attorneys for Cost, see Art. III_. “Action ” “ Costs ” sec. 161, 164,

168.
,
Infant Attorneys, for their contracts, see “ Attorneys,” sec. 12.
Al to election and qualiﬁcation and duties of Clerks and Sheriff, see further, "County
Oﬁcers."

For Act authorizing Judge of the Superior Court, to appoint a Sheriff and Clerk tem
Iornrily in certain cases, see " County Ofiicers,” sec. 69.
For Act re lating testimony of Artys. in certain cases, see “ Evidence," sec. 45.

For She ' I duty in relation toﬁfas vs. deﬁaulting Tax Collectors, see " State Of
ﬁcera." sec. 17.
1'For duty of Clerk in reference to process, scifa, ﬁling of petition, &c. see Art. III.
“ Action"

" Commencement, &c."

1Before the next term of the Court; 888 " County Funds and Records," sec. 20. See
further on to the records of the Courts, same title.
Attorney and Solicitor Gcneru1—Sheriﬁl

other matters and things which by law ought by me to be recorded,
and that 1 will faithfully and impartially discharge and perform all
the duties required of me, to the best of my understanding.” And
Com‘,

shall also enter into bond with one or more good and suﬂicient se
curity or securities, to the Governor for the time being, in the sum

of $3,000, conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties requir
ed of them: And the said Clerks shall in virtue of their offices be
May admiu- Justices of the Peace, so far as to administer all oaths appertaining to
i,';,",f,}’,:'i',',‘,,,g the business of their oﬁice.*

f,'_.’a‘,",‘j“l'_,‘r’|’§u'.

No Clerk of a Court or other person em

“-,,,,,,,cl asployed in his oﬁice, shall act as attorney in his own name, or the

““"“‘“'name of any other person, or be allowed to plead or practice in such
Courts, during the time he shall be employed in such oﬁice : And
my be mm the same person may be Clerk of the Superior and Inferior Court of
°H"’u'C'“' the same County; Provitlerl, that nothing herein contained shall
extend to prevent any officer of the Court from prosecuting or de
fending any suit to which he is a party.

LAW nr:PAn'rMEN'r.1'
Du, of Sol,

366. Sec. XXXVII.

It shall be the duty of the State’s Attor

f;’;‘,‘l;f,‘,""

my and Solicitors, or one of them, to prosecute all delinquents -for
crimes and other offenses, cogmzable by the said Courts, and all civil
actions in which this State shall be concerned, and to give advice or
opinion in writing to his Excellency the Governor, in questions Of

|,m,,,,,r

law in which the State may be interested.

And in case it should so

‘£:‘[i{'§:;° happen that neither the State’s Attorney or Solicitors, or either of
IPa>i“'them, can attend the said Courts, then the Judge presiding may, and
he is hereby authorized and required, to appoint some attorney at
law, to prepare and prosecute the indictments and other business of
the State, and such person so appointed shall be entitled to the same
fees and emoluments therein, as the State’s Attorney or Solicitors
would have been entitled to.

siir.Rirrs.I
ghﬂm,

367. Sec. XLVI.

The Sheriffs ofthe several Counties shall al

"‘°“ ‘“‘“" tcwl the Superior and Ini'e;'ior Courts l.ll the respective Counties when
sitting, and by l.ll(‘lllf:'L'lV\fS or deputies, execute throughout the Coun
ties§ all writs, wumuits, precepts and processes directed to them,
issued under the authority of any Judge or Justice of the said Supe
rior or Inferior Courts, or the Clerk of either of the Courts ; and the
said Sheriffs or their deputies shall have power to command all neces
*As to probate of deeds before him, see " Convcyances Sac." sec. 65. 69.
1-See furtheras to duties of S01. and Attorney General, “ State Oﬂicers," secs 211 261
71. Also “ Escheats," sec. 18.
IFor Act giving Sheriff, Coroner, and Constable, control of executions, for whicllihey
are made liable, see Art, 111. “ Action" " Execution, &c.” sec. 194.
As to executions for and against Sheriff, see “Executions 8:0." sec. 198.
§May follow an itincran‘» person out of the County, see “ Bail," sec.87.
Sheriff 's Bond—Oath—-Liability for Deputiea—Duty.

sapry assistance in the execution of their duty, and to appoint, as there
shall be occasion, one or more deputies ,1 and before any Sheriff shall
enter upon the duty of his appointment, and being commissioned by
the Governor, he shall be bound for the faithful performance of his Mustgive
duty, by himself and his deputies, before any one of the said Judges '°°“'“*
to the Governor of the State for the time being, and to his successors
in office,2 jointly and severally with two good and sufﬁcient securi
ties, inhabitants and freeholders of the County, to be approved of by
the Justices of the Infenor Court or any three"" of them," in the sum
of $20,000,1' and the said bond shall remain in the office of the Clerk
of the Superior Court of such County,1 and may be sued for by order
of the said Court, for the satisfaction of the public or persons aggrie v
ed by the misconduct of the Sheriff or his deputy; and the said
Sheriff shall take and subscribe the following oath, before one of the
Judges of the Superior, or Justices of the Inferior Courts, and the
same shall be entered on the minutes of the said Court, before such

Sheriff shall enter on the duties of his ofﬁce, to wit: “I do solemn- Their oath
ly swear (or affirm as the case may be) that I will faithfully execute
all writs, warrants, precepts, and processes, directed to me as Sheriff
of the County of
and true returns make, and in all things well
and truly, and without malice or partiality, perform the duties of the
office of Sheriff of
,during my continuance in office, and take
only my lawful fees ; so help me God.” And an oath to the same
purport shall be taken by each of the deputies of the said Sheriff in
like manner.
368. Sec. XLVII. In case of the death of either of the said Sheriffs, In CW 0‘
office, unless otherwise

the deputy or deputies
shall continue
in
spe- asift:h,d
at-Lepucially removed, and execute the same in the name of the deceased,
until another Sheriff be appointed and qualiﬁed; and the defaults Liability of
and misfeasance in ofﬁce of such deputy or deputies in the mean §:';'j,'I'§f"'
time, as well before as after the death of such Sheriff, shall be adjudg
ed a breach of the condition of the bond given as before directed, by the
Sheriff who appointed such deputy or deputies ;‘ and the executor Remedy of

or administrator of the deceased Sheriff, shall have the like remedy “°°“'°"
for the misconduct or misfeasance, or default in office of such deputy
or deputies, during such intervals, as he would be entitled to if,the
Sheriff had continued in life, and in the execution of his office, until
his successor was appointed and sworn. '
I
369. Sec. XLVIII. The Sheriff~ of each County shall, at the Fm" "M
ovortothe-it

e_\'piration of his appomtment, turn over to the SllCC@0tlll'lf_2§ bll(él'1flS§1ll¢r"c~fi-rah
y indenture and schedule, all such writs and processes as shall rc-.;r1'§,',‘,"i','§.,_,,
main in his hands unexecuted, who shall duly execute and return ,'Q‘,',',‘,‘,’,,’§E,‘,".",,,°
Illlllh

‘Explained by Act of 1803. " County Oﬁicers," sec. 5.
,
t'1‘he bonds for many Counties have been reduced. See reference to such Acts under
“ Local Acts."
1But see Act of 1845, " County Officers,” see. 71, requiring the Judge of the Superior
Court to examine the bond and have it recorded.
(1.) Appointment may be by parol. 3 Kelly 1.
(2.) No assignment necessary to successors. 1 Kelly, 574,
(3.) A certiﬁed copy of their action in the premises is not cvidence.—1. Kelly, 574.
(t.) Liable for money collected by Deputy. 3 Kelly, 1.
Liability of Sheriﬂ'—_-Duties 01' Clerk and Sheriﬂ.

the same ; and in case any Sheriff shall neglect or refuse to turn over
such process in manner aforesaid, every such Sheriﬁ‘ so neglecting or
refusing, shall be liable to make such satisfaction, by damages and
costs, to the party aggrieved,‘ as he, she, or they, shall sustain by
reason of such neglect or refusal, and every Sheriff, at the expiration
of such his appointment, shall also deliver up to his successor the
custody of the jail and the bodies of such persons as shall be conﬁned
therein, with the precepts, writs or causes of such detention; and
such succeeding Sheriff shall be empowered and required to sell and
carry into effectany levy made by his predecessors in ofﬁce, in like
manner as such Sheriff could have done had he continued therein,
and shall make titles to the purchasers for all the property sold under
execution, and not conveyed by his predecessor.2
370. Sec. XLIX. The Sheriffs of the several Counties in this
liable.
State, shall have like powers and authorities, and they, and their
under Sheriffs and Jailers, Constables and other oﬂicers belongingto
the Court, be liable to all actions, suits, penalties and disabilities
whatsoever, which they or either of them may incur for or on ac
count of the escape of prisoners, or for or in respect of any other
matter or thing whatsoever, relating to or concerning their respec
tive ofﬁces, in the same manner as they have heretofore been liable
Fliallnntari by laws in force in this State ; and no Sheriffs, under Sherilfs, Dep

"““""""" uty or other Sherili"s officer shall act as an attorney at law, in his
own name or in the name of any other person, or be allowed to plead
or practise in any of the Courts of this State, during the time he is
in such office.
Aromilijncl
371. Sec. L. The Sheriff shall be liable either to an action on
iiiiiillii3;:. the case, or an attachment for contempt of Court, at the option of
the party, wherever it shall appear that he hath injured such party,
either by false returns, or by neglecting to arrest the defendant, or
to levy on his property, or to pay over to the plaintiﬂ' or his attorney,
the amount of any sales which shall be made under or by virtue of
any execution, or any monies collected by virtue thereof.3

i»':li‘;¢i!cl;;*;:@f;¢'i

372. SEC. LI.

If any Sheriif. or his deputy or under Sheriﬁs,

malpractice. shall be guilty of extortion or other malpractice in the execution of
his office, upon complaint made on oath to the State’s Attorney or SO
licitors, it shall be the duty of such Attorney or Solicitor, to exhibit
a hill of indictment against the person so offending, who, upon con
viction thereof, shall be ﬁned by the Court in treble the amount
which he may have extorted from any person; which shall be ap
plied, one moiety to the injured person, and the other moiety to the
(1.) Receiving money afterwards, securities not liable. 2 Kelly, 248.
(2.) Order of Court unnecessary. 7 Ga. 264.
(3.) The Sheriff may be attached for afalae return as to the escape of a prisoner. I
Kdly, 547.

Also for failure of deputy to pay over money.

1 Kelly, 584.

On a rule absolute against a Sheriff, an execution cannot issue.
by attachment. 6 Ga. 239, 8 Ga. 166.
It is acivil process and plaintifff must pay jail fees.

It must be enforced

6 Ga. 575.

Proceeding by rule does not bar proceedings by action. 7 Ga. 445 ; Measure 01' dim"
ages for failing to levy. Ibid.
Sheriff maybe ruled by defendant inﬁ. fa. 8 Ga. 156.
Duties of Clerks—Execution Docket.

use of such County, and shall likewise be removed from office, and
sulfer such other punishment as the law directs.
373. Sec. L11. Whenever the Sheriff of any County Within“ WM
this State, shall fail to make proper return of all writs, executions i:S::ii:ri:,.
and other process put into his hands, or shall fail or neglect to pay ::,.'f:-:f,',',:':,:Z
up all monies received on such executions, on his being required by E:E£_°“
the Court so to do, he shall be liable to an action as for contempt,
and may be ﬁned, imprisoned or removed from office, in the manner
prescribed by the Constitution.

An Act to define the duties of the Clerks of the Superior and Infe
rior Courts of“this State, and »S‘/te)'z>'[fs.—.-ipproved Dec. 15, 1810.
Vol. II. 664.
Whereas, a practice has prevailed in the Superior and Inferior
Courts in this State, for judgments to be kept open, notwithstanding
the Sheriff may have returned the execution or executions bottom

ed on such judgments satisﬁed ; And whereas, great evil might grow
out of such practice; for remedy whereof,
374. Sec. I. Be it enacted, §'c. That from and after the ﬁrst 5‘“"-"mi"!
ufjndgnicntl
day of February next, it shall be the duty of such Clerks, in1medi-5|-uﬂbe,
ately after the return of such Sheriff of such execution or executions, :rIiltL‘:e‘iil..M,

asthe case may be, to enter such satisfaction on such judgment,
either in whole or in part, as per Sheritf ’s return.

375. Sec. II.

It shall be the duty of such Clerks to keep a dock- §ff,£_‘“°'

et book,for the special purpose of entering the names and stating
the cases of parties, plaintifff or plaintifffs, and defendant or defend
ants, and enter such satisfaction as aforesaid.

376. Sec. III. The respective Clerks of the Superior and Ir1fe-Efﬁfggl
rior Courts of this State, shall keep regular subprena dockets, and
the said Clerks of the Superior Courts shall also keep separate dock

ets for all criminal cases, which shall be entered in their regular ,‘,"'u'i',‘:‘,:'L“‘
order.
377. Sec. IV. The different Sheriffs in this State shall keep S'*"."*"*°!
fair and regular execution. dockets, wherein they shall enter all exec11-Ilt-mm. how
tions delivered to them, and the dates of such delivery, together iiﬁii did.
with all their actings and doings thereon, and ﬁle the same in the
Clerk's oﬂicc out of which such executions may have issued, on or
before the ﬁrst day of the meeting of the Court to which they may
(‘Clll|U|l

be made returnable, which said dockets shall remain in the said of

ﬁces, subject to the inspection of all persons concerned therein.
Sec. V. [See Art. XXI. “ Securities and Endorsers,” sec.

430.]
An Act to amend and explain the XXIXth section of the Judirriary
Law of this State.-—Approved Dec. 7, 1812. Vol. III. 381.

SE65. 1. and II.
73

[See “Costs,” secs. 163, 164.],
Dcfnulting Attorneys and other oﬂicers.
____l____—-———_——————-————

Attorney _re- 378. And if any attorney shall retain in his hands any money
i,iiiii'i§.0iii-iy
received by him for any client, after being ordered by the Court to
',’,‘.:,"r°§j,:_“’“‘ pay over the same to the principal, he shall be struck from the list
of attorneys, and never more suffered to plead in any of the Courts
in this State.

An Act to authorize She1‘1_'ﬂ's to perform the duties of their qﬂice in
adjoining Counties in certain cases herein dc;/ined.—Approred
Dec. 7, 1812. Vol. III. 142.
erotho

379.

In all cases which require the oﬁicial acts of a Sheritl

",§'§-$5, wherein he is or may be a party in the case, and no Coroner can be

§;:2,"‘;'§°" obtained in the County to perform and execute the office of Sheriff,
ggjvorliﬁzfthe that then and in that case, it shall and may be lawful for any Shexitl
County lmy in an adjoining County to do and perform all manner of oﬁicial acts
m
that a Coroner is authorized to do and perform in cases where the
Sheriff is a party interested.*

An Act tofacilitate the recovery of Money out of the hands Q/‘Shcnfs.
Coroners, Justices of the Peace, Constables, Clerhsqf the Superior

and Inferior Courts, and Attorneys at Law.—Approved Dec. 23,
1822. Vol. IV. 403.
Man, ,,,.,_

380.

From and after tliepassage of this Act, it shall be the duty

,*,',;:¥_f,,',',,"‘,‘,’,‘,,_ of the Sheriffs, Coroners, Justices of the Peace, Constables, Clerks
;1§,~;,f‘°,'§°¢p‘;; of the Superior andlnferior Courts, and Attorneys at law, in this
£0rp:;l§::(-l:_ State, upon apphcatwn, to pay to the proper person or persons, hrs
...;'.,d and

her, or their attorney any money or monies they may have in then

'“’“°°'

hands ; and if not promptly paid, the party or parties entitled them
to, his, her or their.attorney may serve said officer with a written
demand for the same ; and if not then paid, for such neglect or refu
sal the said oﬁicer shall be compelled to pay at the rate of twenty
per cent. per annum, upon the sum he has in his hands, from the date
of such just demand, if good cause be not shown to the cc-ntrary.i’
o,,,,,.,,, dov
381. Sec. II. A copy ofsaid demand produced into Court, veriﬁed
:;',‘,',‘j,‘
by affidavit, stating when and where the original was served upon
ev“lvnw- the oliicer, shall be prima facie evidence of the date and service
thereof.
‘
Sec.
III.
All
laws
and
parts
of
laws
militating
against this Act,
- Repealing
¢1*\ware hereby repealed.

An Act to authorize the return of S/ter1'_t7‘s, Constables, Coroners and
Just-ices of the Peace, to be traversed, and to point out the mound‘
‘For other provisions on this subject, see Art. III. " Action," " C ommenrcmmt,"
&c. sec. 7-1», of this title.

See also, see. 198.

TProvisions of this Act extended.

Sec sec. 384.
Traverse of Returns-—Absent Sheriﬂ‘—Det'au1tiug oﬂicers.

in which they shall make returns.-Asser1ted to Dec. 22, 1840.
Pam. 40.
Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of gifgrgufl
382. Sec.
this Act, whenever any Sheriff, Constable, Coroner, or Justice of nor. in
.
.
d
the Peace shall make a return or showing,
under or by virtue
of any l,'l.lh°all'ti
rule or order of any Judge of any Superior Court of this State, the {TI,’Z,£f_"“
same shall be made on oath to be taken at the time of making such
return or showing, and the party calling for such return or showing,
shall be at liberty to traverse the truth of such return or showing,
and upon such traverse an issue shall be formed and tried by a Jury,
as in the case of other traverscs."“1
Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.
Art Act requiring Judges to grant Rules Absolute against Slterifs
in certain cases.—Assented to Dec. 11, 1841. Pam. 122.
383. Whereas, Sheriffs in this State frequently absent them
selves from their Court, for the purpose of preventing rules
being taken against them for failure to raise monies on executions;
and whereas, injury frequently accrues to plaintiffs in execution;
for remedy whereof—

Sac. I.

Be it enacted, That whenever a Sheriff of any County Rules _ _

in this State absents himself from his Court, that the presiding §L',§'§,,?’“

Judge or Judges, in all such instances, when required by plaintifffs '““'*’"
in executions or their attorney, shall grant rules absolute against
said Sheriff, unless it is proven, at said term of the Court, that the
Sheriff, from sickness, is not able to attend said Court, any law or
custom to the contrary.

An Act to extend theprovisions of an Act entitled an Act to facilztate
the recovery of money out of the hands of Sheriﬁ's, Coroners, Jus
tices of the Peace, Constables, Clerks ofthe Superior and Inferior
Courts and Attorneys at Law passed December twenty-third, eigh
teen hundred and twenty-tu-o, to certain cases therein named.—-As
sented to Dec. 11,1841. Pam. 124.
384. Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the PD~SS8.g0B0pal"ct.on
of this Act, that whenever a rule absolute shall be obtained against §',‘,',§‘,,§',,‘I§'
any Sheriff, Coroner, Justice of the Peace, Constable, Clerk of the §,{,‘,i°
Superior or Inferior Court, or Attorney at law, for the payment of smwk
money when such money shall r1ot be promptly paid, that such de
mand shall thereafter draw an interest at the rate of twenty per cent.

per annum.
1-.

‘For Act making Justices of the Peace liable to rule in Superior Court, see title

'3' “Justices of the Peace," sees. 37, 43.

(1.) This Act applies to every return to any order of any Superior Court.

1 KetZy,6-1*
Rule vs. Deputy Sl1eriif—1n vacation——Special oﬁieer—Advertisements, where published

on» 8I|eriﬂ's 385. Sec. II. All Deputy Sheriffs shall beliable to be ruled and
iiid-ii_’.u:b'l attached in the same way and manner as Sheriffs; but the liability
ﬁﬂ‘-,”,'y"I0:,,'j';' of the Sheriff shall not be affected by any such proceeding against

“"1
his deputy where the same is not effective.
:1;:,°:“'\oig_
386. Sec. III. It shall be lawful for the Judges of the Superior
cpn in vm- Courts of this State, Justices of the Inferior Court and Justices ot
“°“‘
the Peace, upon application, to grant rules nisi against all oﬂieers in
vacation, which may be served as heretofore practised!‘
i“Pgu¢§nT:I{°_ 387. Sec. IV. Whenever the Sheriff or his deputy is a party to
owl otﬁcar said rule, or interested therein, and there be no Coroner or other

§.°§,f,§:° lawful officer of said County to execute the same, it shall be the duty

7°“

of the Judge or Justice or Justices of said Court to appoint, proton
pore, aspeeial officer to carry out and effectuate the order of said
Court, which said ofﬁcer, so appointed, shall be allowed the usual
fees of Sheriffs for like service.T
‘
Sec. V. All laws and parts of laws militating against this law,
be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to authorize and require the Sherifs, Coroners, Clerks of the
Superior and Inferior Courts, and Courts of Ordinary in the
several Counties in this State, to advertise in certain newspapers
Approved Feb 22, 1850. Pam. 44.
':d'°Y"~=‘-‘388. S120. I.

Be it enacted, That the Sheriffs, Coroners, Cl?-IliS

Wllla of
,
I
;§lt£:,e:1;-dc
of the Superior
and Inferior
‘Courts, and Clerks of the Courts (ff
‘Ordinary in the several Counties in this State, are hereby authen
zed and required to advertise their sales, citations, and proceedings
of their respective Courts in some newspaper published in their
Counties respectively, and if there be no such paper published in the
County, then in the nearest newspaper having the largest -or agenci
Notice 0! al circulation in the County; and no such officer shall change the
-um‘
advertising connected with his office from one paper to anothtf-I1
without ﬁrst giving notice of his intention to do so in the paper In
Which his advertisements may have been published.I
,
-Penlvﬁsﬂn
389. Sec. II. All deputies of Sheriffs, or other ofﬁccrs l1etﬂ_H

"M “per mentioned, shall advertise in the same papers in which their prim
pals advertise.
Sec. III. All laws and parts of laws militating against this rich
be and the same are hereby repealed.
An Act to prohibit Sherz_'ﬂ's and their Deputiesfrom becoming diml

ly or indirectly purchasers of property at their own sale->3 1” M‘
cate all titles taken or held by themfor property so p-urchasa1,¢""l
‘For Act authorizing ex-oﬂiecrs to be ruled, see “ County Oﬂiccrs," sec- 16
“Hudge may appoint Sheriff and Clerk temporarily, where there is a \'acttnC,\', rats W"
of the Court. See " County Oﬁicers,” see. 69.

1For Act requr-ing Clerk Court Ordinary to keep a file of newspapers, see “EX"°"'tom,” &c. sees. 16, 17.

Sheritfs shall not Purchase at their own sales—Dieting Negroes-—-Partition.

to makepenal the violation of this Act, and to regulate their char
ges in certain cases.—Approved Feb. 22, 1850. Pam. 369.
390. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of §)l;;ﬁf§b':,'l'
this Act, no Sheriff or deputy Sheriff shall be permitted to purchase ppréhm
any property whatever,-sold by himself, nor any Sheriff property ldhliéhhlf
s)ld by his deputy, nor any deputy Sheriﬁ‘ property sold by his
principal or other deputy of said principal, either directly upon his
own bid, or indirectly upon the bid of any other person ; and that
every deed and all deeds intended to vest in any Sheriff or deputy Doed void.
2). title to property purchased at such sales in violation of this Act,
whether made by such Sheriif or deputy or by any purchaser at such
sale, shall be null and void.1
391. Sec. II. Any Sheriff or deputy Sheriff who shall violate the Mindanao!
provisions of the ﬁrst section of this Act, shall be liable to be indict- °"
ed as for a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be subject to ﬁne
in the discretion of the Court, or imprisonment in the common jail
of the County for a term not exceeding six months, or both.

392. Sec. III.

VVhenevera Sheriff or his deputy shall levy upon rm allowed

any negro property, he shall not be allowed to charge in any case ,i°,',,f§°§,

for feeding and keeping, or any other necessaries furnished such negro 331*“ ‘°'
or negroes, in such cases where the services of such negro so levied

on have been applied to the use of said Sheriff or his deputy prior
to the sale and pending the levy.2
Sec. IV. All laws or parts of laws militating against this Act,
are hereby repealed.
An Act to empower the General Court of Pleas to grant writs of
partition of lands and tenements held in coparcenary, joint tenan
cy, and tenancy in common, in this province, and appointing the
method of proceeding therein.—Approved March 26, 1767. Vol.

I. 315.
IV/wreas, it would be inconvenient in this province to pursue the
method of dividing lands and tenements by writ of partition as
practised in Great Britain ; and it appears necessary to proviie a more
easy and less expensive manner of obtaining partitions:
393. Sec. I. Be it thereforee enacted, That in all cases where Partition of
'
'
'
' '
hntls howtn
any person being
of full age are seized
of lands in
coparcenary, _]o1nt,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,_
‘In relation to survivorship among joint tenants, sec Art. XII. " Joint Tenants," sec.
293.
(1.) The law, without the Statute.

Harrison vs. llcllcnry, 9 Ga. Rep.

(2.) 80 held substantially by the Court, before this Act.

(3.) Equity has concurrent jurisdiction.

8 Ga. 91.

2 Kelly, 240.
Partition of land, in kind--\Vrit—Notice——Retu.rn.

tenancy, or tenancy in common, or where any lands or tenements
shall descend, or be given to any person or persons whatever in co
parcenary, joint tenancy, or tenancy in common, and no provision
shall be made by will or otherwise, how such lands or tenements
shall be divided; it shall and may be lawful for such person, being
of full age, or either ot them, immediately, and also for any one of
such coparceners, joint tenants, or tenants in common, who may be
under age, when, and so soon as he or she shall attain the age of
twenty-one years, to apply to the General Court of Pleas, for a writ
of partition, (to be devised and framed in the said Court according
to the nature of the case,) and in case he or she, so coming of age,

shall neglect so to do, within the space of twelve months, that then
the guardian or guardians of him, her, or them, remaining under age,
shall be, and he, she, or they, is and are hereby empowered, if he,
she, or they shall think fit, to apply to the said Court for a writ of
?‘(3)g*cl§:)’rm partition ;* of which application twenty days’ notice shall be given
application. to the other parties concerned, their agents or attorneys; and upon

any such application, and alﬁdavit made of due notice having been
given as aforesaid, it shall and may be lawful for the said Court to
examine the petitioner’s title and part or share of the premises to
be divi-led, and thereupon to issue a writ of partition, directed to any
i“‘:;L“m'*ﬁ“ elevent persons whom the Court shall think ﬁt, requiring a11d com
vr-rwnl manding them, or a majority of them, to make partition accord

'l‘1bHw°"1 ingly ; they being ﬁrst sworn in Court, or before one of the Judges,
or any Magistrate, or other person or persons for this purpose nomi
nated and appointed by order of Court, duly and impartially to exe
'_’,'|‘:{‘,‘:,‘;§’,‘; cute such writ :1 And such partitioners, or persons named in such
-Im’nvliw writ, shall give eight days’ notice of the time of executing thereof,
Jiri
0 llprliwiis
art’ to all the parties
.
concerned, their
. attorneys or agents; and thereupon

‘v‘i.i'r',ii.‘° 4'' shall proceed to make a just and equal partition and division of ,all
such land and tenements, either in entire tracts or parcels, as they shall
judge to be in proportion to the shares claimed and most beneﬁcial
to the several coparceners, joint tenants, or tenants in common, ac

And make cording to the best of their knowledge ; and shall make return there

mum '“ 3 f under their hands and seals to the said Court within three months
months from 0

{,','§ 1911"‘
;1;|‘;b‘?"“d°
judg
zl,-‘f‘Il\rIL'f the
l:2Xn0ntlll!

after the issuing of such writ, there to remain of record; which par
tition or division so to be made shall, by the judgment of the said
Court, be ﬁnal and conclusive to all the parties concerned, any law,
statute, usage, or custom to the contrary notwithstanding. Protrided

ﬁll: §;,°°‘ always, that if the defendant or defendants, or person concerned, or
P"““°“' either of them, against whom, or their right or title, any judgment
is given, shall within the space of twelve months, after such
judgment is entered; or in case of infancy, coverture, insanity of
mind, or absence out of the province, within one year after his, her,
or their return, on the determination of such inability, apply them
selves to the Court where such judgment is entered, by motion, and
show a good and probable matter in bar of such partition, or that
‘See Act of 1837, as to mode of proceeding where partition cannot be made by motes
anrl bounds, sec. 396.
+Five per--on.=, sec.395.

IConnty Sun-eyor may administer the oath.

Sec "County Ofﬁcers," sec. 64.
New part.ition—-Five partitioners—1’artition by sale.

the dennndant hath not title to so much as he hath recovered; then
and in such case the Court may suspend, or set aside such judgment,
and admit the tenant or tenants to appear and plead; and the cause
shall proceed according to the due course of law, as if no such judg
ment had been given. And if the Court, upon hearing thereof, shall
adjudge for the ﬁrst demandant, then the said ﬁrst judgment shall
stand conﬁrmed, and be good against all persons whatsoever, except
such other persons as shall be absent or disabled as aforesaid ; and
the person or persons so appealing shall be awarded thereupon to
pay costs, or if within such time or times aforesaid, the tenants or
persons concerned, admitting the demandant’s title, parts, and parparts, shall show to the Court any inequality in the partition, the €‘;Ie\vp=u1tb-O
Court may award a new partition to be made in presence of all par- .:,"u'ii':ti.
ties concerned, (if they will appear,) notwithstanding the return and
ﬁling upon record the former; which said second partition returned
and ﬁled shall be good and ﬁrm forever, against all persons whatso
ever, except as before e.dceptcd.
394. Sec. II. That the persons making such partitions shall be <?<\mrem
allowed and paid a reasonable charge for the same. And in case the ;::r-l.l:‘i|rir‘|?::l.
party or parties applying for such writ of partition shall neglect or
refuse to allow and pay such charge, the same shall, upon application,
be settled and awarded by the Court.
An Act to amend an Act, entitled an ' Art to empower the General
Court of Plans to grant wrils of partition of lttnrls anrl Iencmrn/S
held in t-oparcenary, joint tenancy, and tenancy in common, in this
province; and appointing the method of proceeding therein, passed
the 26th March, 1767.—Approved Dec. 22, 1827; Vol. IV. 219.
Whereas, by the before-recited Act it is made the duty of the Su
perior Courts in this State, on application for a writ of partition, to
appoint eleven persons to perform such duty, which from experience
[proves] to be unnecessarily expensive ;
395. Be it enacted, (Ya. That from and immediately after the ﬂw-‘and
passing of this Act, that whenever a writ of partition shall be grm1t-liiiiiiirl
ed in terms of the before-recited Act, it shall be directed to ﬁve frec- ,',':f{§;°“°d'

holders of the County where such writ shall issue, and the said free- ‘"“’“"
holders, ora majority of them, shall have full power to perform all
the duties required by the before-recited Act in cases of partition;
and the said freeholders, or a majority of them, shall have power to
select a Surveyor to aid them in the discharge of their duties, and the
said freeholders shall be subject to the same rules, regulations, and
restrictions, as are prescribed by the before-recited Acts in all cases
of partition; any law to the contrary notwithstanding.

An Act to regula-Ic the mode of partition-ing lands and tenements in
certain cases, in the State of Georgia.—Assented to 26th Dec.

1837.

Pam. 181.

306. See. I.

Be it enacted, That whenever an application shall
Sale and title to purchascr—Partners and Partnerships.

Awlignlion be made to any of the Superior Courts of this State for a partition
of lands or tenements, held in
Joint
tenancy, tenancy in
common
§,‘;,f,f,";1§’" or in coparcenary, and either of the parties in interest shall, by his

"“"°or her aﬂidavit, or other proof, make it satisfactorily appear to the
Court, that a fair and equitable division of said lands and tenements
cannot be made, by motes and bounds,by reason of improvements
made on said lands and tenements, or by reason of the said lands
and tenements being valuable for the erection of mills or machinery
of any kind, or by reason of said lands being valuable for mining
purposes, and in all cases where it shall be made appear to the Court,
that the value of the entire lands and tenements will be depreciated

fj,‘l_°" °‘

by such division as aforesaid, that then and in that case, the said Court

shall order a sale of the said lands and tenements, on such just and
equitable terms as it shall prescribe, and order_ the proceeds to be di'
vided among the several claimants rateably, in proportion to their
respective interests, after deducting the expenses of the proceedings.
Z-glue“;-:si3°n_ 397. Sec. II. In all cases where it shall be necessary to make a
on

Advertise
moan

*"“""sale of lands or tenements, to effect a just and equitable partition

thereof, it shall be the duty of the Court to appoint three discreet
and proper persons, under such qualiﬁcations as it may prescribe, to
make sale of the said lands and tenements, after an advertisement of
thirty days in one of the public gazettes, on the ﬁrst Tuesday in
the month, at the Court house, .in the County in which the said
lands or tenements are situate, and to return their proceedings to the

next following term of the Court.
Tiikto
398. SEC. III. Upon the sale of said lands and tenements as
Wnmmb aforesaid, the said parties in interest, shall make a title to the pur
chaser, and in case of failure or refusal of them or any of them, the

said persons appointed under the authority of the Court aforesaid, or
any two of them, shall execute a deed of conveyance to the said
lands or tenements to the purchaser or purchasers, which said deed
of conveyance shall be as valid and binding in Law and Equity, as
if it had been made by the parties themselves.
obsolete,
re Pe aled or su P erseded.
A Statutes
f 1763 omitted
WV kas86

399. See. I.

Be it cnuclcrl, That limited partnerships ‘for the Lim|tedpm1

transaction of any mercanfile, commercial, mechanical, manufactur- “"'h""'
ing, mining, or agricultural business, within this State, may be form

ed by two or more persons, upon the terms, with the rights and pow
ers, and subject to the conditions and liabilities lIGI'ClI1PI'CSCI‘ibC(l_;Exceptfnr

but the provisions of this Act shall not be construed to authorize any iii,'ii}i'i.'i\i,)'
such partnership for the purpose of banking, or making insurance. "“"""“'
400., Sec. II. Such partnerships may consist of one or more Gmml
persons, who shall be called general partners, and who shall be jointly l”"“°“'
and severally responsible as general partners, and of one or more per
sons who shall contribute, in actual cash, a speciﬁc sum as capital to
the common stock, who shall be called special partners, and who is):-;<n\::_
shall not be liable for debts of the partnership beyond the fund so I‘heirllabi1i.
contributed by him or them to the capital, except as hereinafter pro-"'
‘ vided.

401. Sec. III. The general partners only shall be authorized to Authority of
transact business, and to sign for the partnership, and to bind tl1O|8,:i":i|r:x]s.
same.
402. Sec. IV. Persons desirous of forming such partnership, shall Ceniﬂws.
make and severally sign, by themselves or attorney in fact, a certif
icate which shall contain—lst, the name of the ﬁrm under which Name.

such partnership is to be conducted; 2d, the general nature of the Business
business intended to be transacted ; 3d, the names of all the general and P-nnem
special partners inserted therein, distinguishing which are general, mm“
and which are special partners, and their respective places of resi
dence; 4th, the amount of capital which each special partner shall Clam),
have contributed to the common stock ; 5th, the period at which the Time.

partnership is to commence, and the period at which it shall termi
nate, and when made by such attorney in fact, the power of attorney PowerofAl.
duly authenticated shall be recorded along with such certiﬁcate.
'°'“""‘
403. Sec. V. The certiﬁcate shall be acknowledged by the Acknowl

several persons signing the same, or their attorney in fact, before a§‘;,l,,'Z£?"
Judge of the Superior or Inferior Court, or aJustice of the Peace, or
Notary Public, and such acknowledgement shall be certiﬁed by the cmlﬂod by
officer before whom the same is made.
him’
404. See. VI. The certiﬁcate and power of attorney in fact. so and Q1“ i||
acknowledged and certiﬁed, shall be ﬁled in the oﬂice of the Clerk §',‘|‘3,‘,"T-'§° “
of the Superior Court of the County in which the principal place -:,‘1',I,"{,‘*,§m
of business of the partnership shall be situated, and shall also be 1'e-r¢wrdyod
corded by him at large, in a book to be kept for that purpose, open
to public inspection. If the partnership shall have places of business
" Action” “Part'ics," secs. 103. 104. of this title. Partnership pro erty bound.
Proceedings where one pleads infancy, see Art. 111. " Action," -'§’leadings, &:e." sec.
1 12.

Amendment where the name of the partner is omitted, sec Art. III. “Action "
“ Pica-iing, &c." sec. 130.

7

Appeals by one partner, see Ant. III. " Action," “Vcldict, Appeals, &c." sec. 147.
Re2ord—-Eﬁ‘ect of fnilure—Publication—Renewals.

l_fb"~=in@!= situated in different Counties, a transcript of the certiﬁcate, and pow
ii.i§.v:ti:i er of attorney in fact, and of the acknowledgement thereof, duly cer

;‘;°,',‘,',""d "‘ tiﬁed by the Clerk in whose olﬁce it shall be ﬁled, under his oﬁicial
‘

seal, shall be ﬁled and recorded in like manner in the oﬁice of the
Clerk 01 the Superior Court in every such County; and the Clerk
""""' M for each and every registry required by this Act shall be entitled to

the sum of ﬁve dollars.

°

Aﬂidwih

405. See. VII. At the time of ﬁling the original certiﬁcate, with
the evidence of the acknowledgement thereof, as before directed, an
T-we ﬁh=d- atﬁdavit or affidavits of the several general partners shall also be ﬁled
in the same oﬁice, stating that the sums speciﬁed in the certiﬁcate
to have been contributed by each of the special partners to the com
mon stock, have been actually and in good faith paid in cash, and a
:i_ certiﬁed copy of such certiﬁcate and power of attorney and atﬁdavits,
drum
shall be evidence in all Courts and places whatsoever.
:‘;p'{:i‘:lt,|:srL
406. Sec. VIII. No such partnership shall be deemed to have
,..-H mm] been formed until such a certiﬁcate as is herein mentioned, shall
l’“‘“”“- have been ‘made, acknowledged, ﬁled and recorded, nor until an aili

davit shall have been ﬁled as above directed ; and if any false state
ment be made in such certiﬁcate or aﬂidavit, or if such partnership
business be commenced before such certiﬁcate or aﬂidavit is ﬁled, all

the persons interested in such partnership shall be liable for all the
engagements thereof as general partners.
:;":‘r'l§1':l‘_i°“
407'. Sec. IX. The partners shall publish the terms of the part
nership, when registered, for at least six weeks immediately after
such registry, in one newspaper in the County in which the place of
business is situated, and in one newspaper in the City of Milledge
ville. If no newspaper should be published in the County in which
the business is to be transacted, the notice shall be published in all
the newspapers in the City of Milledgeville as before required, and if
such publication be not made within two months from the time of
ﬁling such certiﬁcate aud aﬁidavit, the partnership shall be deemed
general.
-"ﬁdﬂitﬂf
408. Sec. X. The aﬂidavits of the publication of such notice
‘mm “M by the printers, publishers, or editors of the newspapers in which the
same shall be published, may be ﬁled in the office of the Clerk of the
Superior Court in which the certiﬁcate has been ﬁled, and shall be
Evidence. evidence of the facts therein contained.
Rmw-1'! of 409. Sec. XI. Every renewal or continuance of such partner

I'm"°"m'”'ships beyond the time originally ﬁxed for its duration, shall be cer
tiﬁed, acknowledged, and recorded, and an aﬁidavit of a general part
ner be made and ﬁled, and notice be given in the manner herein re
quired for its original formation ; and every such partnership which
shall be otherwise renewed or continued, shall be deemed a general
partnership.
"-'"Y*""- 410. Sec. XII. Every alteration which shall be made in the
Il§."..'1r'.1‘rr2.. names of the partners, in the nature of the business, or in the capital
or shares thereof, or in any other matter speciﬁed in the original cer
tiﬁcate, shall be deemed a dissolution of the partnership; and every
such partnership, which shall in any manner be carried on after any
such alteration shall have been made, shall be deemed a general part
Other provisions as to limited partnership.

nership, unless renewed as a special partnership, according to the unless ro

provisions of the last section.
411. Sec. XIII.

'“w°d'

The business of the partnership shall be con- N,,,,,,,,;

ducted under a ﬁrm, in which the names of the general partners only Pa"“"“'“l“
shall be inserted, without the addition of the word “ company,” or
any other general term ; and if the name of any special partner shall
be used in such ﬁrm, he shall be deemeda general partner.
412. Sec. XIV. Suits to be brought by any partnership to be form- Sum“
ed under this Act, shall be in the name or names of the general partners :,‘f,'}‘?,:,',f;:',‘;
only, and suits against such partnership shall be brought against the f|’;'m!‘l'l'§l_
general partners only; except in cases where the special shall be ren
dered liable as general partners, in which cases suits may be brought
against all the partners jointly or severally, or any one or more of the
special partners may be sued in the same action with the general
Partners.

413. Sec. XV.

No part of the sum which any special partner mmw.

shall l1ave contributed to the capital stock, shall be withdrawn by ‘,§{:,";'p‘,‘,‘c',’,‘{|
him, or paid or transferred to him in the shape of dividends, proﬁts or ff§{{l'L°§:‘!':l‘|
otherwise,at any time during the continuance of the partnership, butmrk w
any partner may annually receive lawful interest on the sum so eo1i-‘!;p::1Ilul;;
tributed by him, if the payment of such interest shall not reduce the be,n.m| his
Original amount of such_ capital; and if, after the payment of such ;','§_.f" ‘“"

interest, any proﬁts shall remain to be divided, he may also receive
his portion of such proﬁts, but shall not be liable for any debts pre
viously contracted by the general partners. '
. 414. See. XVI. If it shall appear that by the payment of interest Il'otlior\\'ise,
or proﬁts to any special partner, the original capital has been redii-lII“I.,“,','.‘1",'.,','l;.

ced, or the ﬁrm shall be unable to pay its debts, the partner receiving “““‘
the same shall be bound to restore the interest or proﬁts received by
him, necessary to make good his original share of the original stock.
415. See. XVII. A special partner may at any time examine Special part
nets may

into the state and progress of the partnership concerns, and may ad- ,.,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,_,

vise as to their management; but he shall not transact any business §,‘,'|:;‘,;'";M
on account of the partnership, nor be employed for that purpose asﬁll*:'*li|*;}'f‘:*
agent or otherwise. If he shall interfere, contrary to these provisions, ;nn_miei- at

he shall be deemed a general partner, but he may act as the attorney ‘“"
or counsellor at Law or in Equity for the partnership. without being
liable to become a general partner.

416. See. XVIII.

The general partners shall be liable to account General

to each other, and to the special partners for ‘their management of the lIi‘,",f{°:,"L._“"‘
business of the ﬁrm, both in Law and Equity, as other partners now °°'““'
are by Law and Equity.
417. SEC. XIX. Every partner who shall be guilty of any fraud Partncrgui|
in the affairs or business of the partnership, shall beliable civilly to lliiliiﬁiil.

the party injured, to the extent of his damage ; and shall also be lia- :I,“,,‘l§',i,',',,Y
ble to an indictment for amisdemeanor, punishable by ﬁne or impris- "=‘“Y
onment, or both, at- the discretion of the Superior Court, by which
he shall be tried.
418. Sec. XX. Every sale, assignment, of transfer or any ofthe
property or effects of such partnership, made by such partnership
when insolvent, or in contemplation of insolvency, or after, or in

is
Limited P|u'tnctship—l{ctircd partner's name.

:ﬁf:n?:g:~_, contemplation of the insolvency of any partner, with Ihe intent of giv
-ml in C0n— ing a preference to any creditor of such partnership, or insolvent part

,'§’,‘:';,',",f,‘,i,‘;'y':"ner, over other creditors of such partnership; and every judgment
'°‘¢

confessed, lien created, or security given by such partnership, under
the like circumstances and with the like intent, shall be void as
against the creditors of such partnership.
‘zirsllz-::::g:_
419. Sec. XXI. Every such sale, assignment, or transfer of any
and by in- of the property or effects of a general or special partner, who may’
;1§,',1,‘;’,‘,: in have become liable as agcneral partner, made by such general or spe
;’,‘,’,':]““,'§‘,‘:{" cial partner, when insolvent, or in contemplation of insolvency, or at’
mrllwi ter, or in contemplation of the insolvency of the partnership, with
' '
the intent of giving to any creditor of his own, or of the partnership,
apreference over creditors of the partnership, every judgment con
fessed, lien created, or security given, by any such partner, under the
like circumstances and with like intent, shall be void as against the
creditors of the partnership.
ﬁned-I p1r1- 420. Sec. XXII. Any special partner who shall violate any
3i¢i.,i_;M"ing provision of the two last preceding sections, or who shall concur in or
,,,,|:,":,“;’ assent to any such violation by the partnership, or by any individual

l‘"'°""
partner, shall be liable as a general partner.
ﬂiwial PM 421. Sec. XXIII. In case of the insolvency or bankruptcy of the
net posipon.
.
.
edtu<>thor partnership, no special partner shall, under any circumstances, be al
partner.

°'“"""'

lowed to claim as acreditor, until the claims of all the other creditors

of the partnership shall be satisﬁed.
Dissolution
422. Sec. XXIV. No dissolution of such partnership, by the
acts of the parties, shall trike place previous to the time speciﬁed in
the certiﬁcate of its renewal, until a notice of such intended dissolu
tion shall have been ﬁled and recorded in the Clerk’s office in which
the original certiﬁcate was recorded, and published at least once a
week for four weeks in a newspaper printed in each of the Counties
where the partnership has places of business; but if no newspaper be
I/:':::_'"*- printed in such Counties, then the notice shall be published for four
weeks in all the newspapers in the City of Milledgeville, which notice
shall be signed by all the partners, or their representatives; Provided,
Proviso.
that nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to affect the
collection of any demand against either of the special partners, which
may have been contracted previously to the commencement of such
special partnership.

An Act Io In-0hi11i£1)c1'son.s who are ]2a1'tncrs in trade, or any kind of
lmsiuess, _/i'0m inwrling, corililrlling or using, in t/it-ir pa-rlnership
style and 1101110, the name ofuny 'i/rdirirltull nut (It-furl-Hy tr co-partner,
and to prevent the collwlion ofrlcbls due to any ]ul.Tt1rcrs/rip riolaling
the provisions oft/n's Art, and to lnmis/t those who may violate the same.
--Assented to Dec. 25, 1837. Pam. 187.
{f::@p:f"'_°423. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
gv.-n-_n:H not this Act, it shall not be lawful for any persons, who are partners in
"“"° ' trade, or business of any kind, to insert or use in their partnership,
ﬁrm, style and name, the name of any person not actually a co-part
Bonds, &c. executed by Partner—Judgrnent in Partnership name.

ner with them at the time his or her name is so inserted or used, nor _'
shall it be lawful to continue, in any partnership ﬁrm, style and
name, the name of any individual partner after he or she shall have
retired from partnership : Provided, that this Act shall not be so
construed as to prevent the collection of debts due to any partner
ship, after its dissolution, or after the retirement of any partner, in
the name previously used, in conformity with this Act.
424. Sec. II. Each and every individual violating the provis- Penalty ta
ions of this Act, shall forfeit and pay the sum of one hundred dollars ;l‘3i§".,'§,

for each and every day such name may be used; to be sued for and 6"‘
recovered by any person who may prosecute for the same.

An Act to authori::eplii'rnc1's, or persons jointly interested, umler cerlain
circumsta.ncr:s to c2:ecute scaled instruments.—Assented to Dec. 29,

1838.

Pam. 165.

425. See. I. Be it enacted, That in all suits either in favor of, or n r|‘dn1 cor:-h
against partners or persons jointly interested, and in all cases when l(~g:\l_pr0
such partners or persons jointly interested shall in any wise become f,‘,§‘,“,',§:,,
connected with any suit or other matter, pending in any of the
°"°
Courts of this State, in any way whatsoever, wherein it shall be
come necessary for said partners or persons jointly interested to give
bend, it shall and may be lawful for any one of said partners or per
sons jointly interested, to execute the same by signing the names of
all of said partners or persons jointly interested; and the same shall
be obligatory and binding upon every of said partners or persons in
terested; any law to the contrary notwithstading.*1
DOC Cf

WI

An Act declaratory dtlzeforcc and validity of all e.reculions orjudg
mcnts issued or entered up in behalf of coparlncrs, or against co
partncrs, where the partnership style is used or set forth, and the
christian and surnames of the co-partners omitted, and also /0 de
clare the force of bonds made to partnerships using their common
name or stg/le.—Assented to Dec. 22, 1840. Pam. 114.
426. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of Ji=a':m'r':md
this Act, no judgment or executi.on shall be arrested or annulled i11§Z§‘.'i°='.‘,,l?.'J.l.i°‘
any case where the judgment has been entered up, or the execution ,‘;[§’,TI':,'\§‘,f,'_
issued in favor of copartners or against copartners, where the partner
ship style is used therein instead of the christian and surnames of each
person composing such partnership, as has been held to be necessary
by some of the Judges of this State ; but such judgment or execution
shall not, for such omission on the part of any officer of the Court,
Clerk, or Justice of the Peace, be affected or delayed in anywise
thereby.
‘See next Act as tbbonds made to partnership.
[1] This law applies to bonds given to obtain attachments.

M Q Co. 8 Ga. Bop.

Dow, Wilson, so. as.
Bonds to 1’artnership—I’roof of Partnership--Possessory \Varraut.

|;.,,,,i.p._"- 427. Sec. II. All bonds payable to two persons or more, doirig
"',‘l§‘,',,‘l‘f"“ business under partnership name or style, shall be as obligatory and
binding upon the obligors of such bonds, where made with obligees
using their ﬁrm name or style, as if each name composing such part
nership had been set forth!‘
SEC. III. All laws or decisions militating against the plain and
manifest intention of this Act, be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to enable coparlners, who are plaintiﬁs in the Courts of Law
and Equity in this State, to maintain and prosecute their suits in
said Cour/s, in certain cases, without being compelled to ariduce
proof of their copartrm-shz'p.—Assei1ted to Dec. 2, 1841. Pam.

141.
428. Whereas, it has been decided by one or more of the Judges of the
Superior Court of this State, that in all cases sued in said Court, in
the name of a ﬁrm of joint traders or copartners, in any business,
that proof of the copartnership, as alleged in the plaintiff’s declara
tion, is necessary to be made before said plaintifffs are allowed to re

cover their demand.

For remedy whereof, and to prevent the delay

and expense of adducing such proof,

hum.-iiip

See. I.

Be it ena-‘cted, That from and after the passage of this

',‘,‘,;,'f§,,'I,‘,",,'§‘_’ Act, it shall not be deemed or held necessary in any of the Courts of

:,"\?}‘,;:,‘;{"°" Law or Equity of this State, for a ﬁrm of joint traders or eopartners
'

in. any business, trade or profession, who are or hereafter may be
plaintiff, in any cause pending in either of said Courts, to prove their
copartnership: Provided, nevertheless, that nothing contained in
this Act shall prevent said Courts, or any of them, from requiring
such proof in any case where the defendant or defendants shall, reg
ularly, by plea in abatement, denying the existence of such ﬁrm or
copartnership, as may be set forth by the plaintifffs in their bill, pe
tition, declaration or writ.
Sec. II. All laws or parts of laws militating against this Act be,
and the same are hereby repealed.

ART. XX. POSSESSORY W’ARRAZ\'T AND PROCEEDINGS THEREON.1'

An Act the more efectztally to quiet and protect the Possession of
Persoiiat Property, and to prevent taking possession by fraud or
'violence.-Approved Dec. 25, 1821. Vol. IV. 207.
Preamble,

429.

TV/zerea-s, a practice hath been followed by some persons

having or laying claims to negroes and other personal property, to
take orlconi/ey away the same by violence, seduction, or other means
or to harbor, or otherwise take, or cause the same to be taken, out
‘See precedh g Act, as to bonds made by one partner.
11-‘or fees un er thisAct, see title “ Fees,” sec. 39.

For procccdiiigs against tenant holding over. see title “ Rent," secs. 7, 8, 9.
As to trial of possession of lands, sec '- Penal Laws," sec. 214.
Coinpliiint on oath—Proceedings thereon.

of the possession of the adverse claimant without due course of law,
and oftentimes to remove the same out of the State to the great in
jury of the true owner; and whereas, manifest injustice, and many
serious mischiefs may arise from such a practice, which is productive
of frauds, violence, and quarrels, and bloodshed,
Sec. IV. Be it therzfore enacted, That upon complaint made on On com
oath by the person injured, his agent or attorney, to any Judge of the pmmn
J udge or oth

Superior, or Justice of the Interior Court, orlany Justice of the§;'{TH;§;L°
Peace, that any negro or ncgroes, or other personal chattel, have ‘c’,',,‘,’{:‘e‘['m
been taken, enticed, or carried away by fraud, violence, seduction been °=i"ie'1
or other means, from the possession of such deponeiit, or that such may’
negroes or other personal chattels having been recently in the quiet, and
legally and peaceably acquired possession of such deponent, have ab
sconded or disappeared without his or her consent, and as he or she

believes, have been harbored, received, or taken possession of, by any
person or persons under some pretended claim or claims, and without
lawful warrant or authority and that the said deponent, or the person for

whom he is agent or attorney bona ﬁde claims a title to or interest
in the said negroes or other chattels, or the possession thereof, it shall
be the duty of such Judge or Justice to issue a warrant, as well for Ii "Hm"
the apprehension of the party so seizing, taking, enticing, receiving, ii'r‘ii1¢ili'i‘-°

harboring, obtaining, or having possession of such negroes or other {f.2“,f,“,,‘,,',‘,':,§._
chattels, as for the seizure of such negroes or other chattels_ themselves; 0"
"'“ '°‘
tum of
and upon the return of such warrant the Judge or Justice shall hear which '1“; ,

ues ion 0

evidence as to the question of possession iii a summary way, and ii“-miivnl-i
cause the said negroes or other chattels to be delivered over to the :l:oIlll.;i:l'li\ill;'
party from whose possession the same were violently or fi-audulentlyw"-"’ ‘ml
|)1).4$1~al

taken or enticed away, or . from whom the same abscondedf
or ii1‘“°“
"“’°
,
ii l'
d
whose peaceable possession they last were: P1-omlcd, such party =g£i>iii1?rIs\y
shall, before such Judge or Justice, enter into a recognizance, with Pmm
good and sufficient security, in double the amount of the value of
such negrocs or other personal property, and the hire claimed, if any,
to cause the said negroes to be produced and forthcoming, to answer
any judgment, execution, or decree that may be had, issued or made

upon such suit or action at Law or in Equity as the opposite party
may commence or prosecute within the next four years touching the

same ; and such recogiiisancc shall be returned by such Judge or Jus
tice to _the next Superior Court of the County where the same is ta
ken, to be transmitted to the Court where such suit or action may be
commenced ; and the securities upon such recognizance shall be bound
and liable for the eventual condemnation-money, and execution shall
issue against them in the same mzumer as against securities on ap
peals: Provided also, that when the party taking out the warrant B<md,_h"\v'
shall refuse or be unable to give such security, then the Judge 01'‘0 be Ewen’
if by the

Justice may in his discretion deliver over siichhegrocs or other per- §‘r‘},'§,"';‘,‘,i,'i‘_,’_"‘
sonal property to the opposite party, upon their entering into a like §,§,‘-;,‘,',{,,",',§
recognisauce,
of the same
effect,ofand
given by we
disposed
of inwith
the security
same manner.
And nature
if, uponand
return
thetowbe iiiiligeliiliiij

rant, it shall appear that the negroes or other personal property are in gifiimiliiy
the possession, power, custody or control of the defendant, or any "’°“‘”'“‘
agent or tiiend. of his or acting for or intrustcd with them for him, and
Sureties and 1ndorsers—Surety paying oﬂ' _ﬁ- fa. entitled to control.

the said defendant doth not produce or cause to be forthcoming the
said negroes or other personal property to be dealt with as the law
directs, the said defendant shall be committed to jail ; there to remain
in safe and close custody, without bail or mainprise, until the said
negroes or other personal property shall be produced or forthcoming
{:3-:>;i:l to be disposed of, as aforesaid; Provided always, that no person or
3»-0....-n persons shall be so committed for refusing to produce, or cause to be
,“§’: "" forthcoming, any negro or other personal chattel which he, she, or
they shall satisfactorily prove to have been in his or her quiet and
peaceable possession for four years next immediately preceding the
passing of this Act, or next immediately preceding the issuing of the
warrant.
Sec. II. [Bail in trover cases, see “Bail,” sec. 95, this title.]
430. Sec. V. Where it shall appear by the Sheriﬂ"s return on
'§i:,E,{“,¥,;,, any execution or executions, that the same has been paid by a secu
{;;‘°
"'° rity or securities, it shall be the duty of the Clerk to make such en
ncﬁt of
23¢ emu-t try in Such docket book, and such security or securities shall have
u-E P rfnei I“itlie use and control of said execution for the ur ose of remuner
ating him or themselves out of the principal for whom he or they
stood security.T
‘Where surety on adminis1:rator’s, &c. bond has paid oft‘ the judgment, entitled to the
control, see Art. lII. "Action," “l’arties," sec. 102, this title. Also as to suits against
them, sec. 101.
_
As tone ereats in favor of surety against his principal or co-security, sec Art. IV.
" Certioruries, Injunction and Ne Exeat," 8:0. sec. 225, of this title.
For Act for relief of sureties of public officers, see “ State Oiiieers," sec. 68.

Asto process of attachment in favor of sureties and indorsers, see title "Attach
ment," &.c. sees. 16, 59.

As to rights in Justice's Courts, see " Justices of the Peace,” sees. 20, 31.

tfurthcr provisions on this subtjcct. Acts of 1826, 1831, and 1845, secs. 431, m,
Control by Surety—Speein1 Defence.

An Act to define the liability of securities on appeal, on stay of e.re—
cution, and for the protectt'on of bail on recognizance, bond, note,
or other contract.-—Approved Dec. 20, 1826. Vol. IV. 216.
431. In all cases_ where any person or persons hath heretofore Sumiosou‘
entered himself assecurity on appeal,* or for stay of execution in 3'?’22;;
any case, in any Court in this State, and may subsequently thereto §‘,‘,‘,FZ",5,L"‘°
have paid off and discharged the execution issmng m such case, it ¢''''@\*4 1“
shall and may be lawful for such security to apply to the Sheriff, 22233501?
Clerk, Constable, Marshal, or Attorney, to whom such payment may ::i:l'2?)'il',"i":)]I

be made, and procure an entry or certiﬁcate to be made on such ex- §}“§',‘,‘,Z‘,’,‘,’,“',,;
ecution
thatbethe
same was
paiduse
byand
the security,
andsuch
suchexecution
security shall
2,’: '"“‘““‘
thereupon
entitled
to the
control of
forplhpnacb
the purpose of proceeding against his principalsf
432. Sec. II. In all cases of appeal where security hath been giv— On appeal

en, and hereafter given, and hereafter to be tried, it shall and may °“°" Jud"
ment to be

be lawful for the plaintifff or his attorney to enter up judgment §:fi’,'f!‘,',,w
against the principal and the security, jointly or severally,1 and execu- Prinrilmlﬂnﬂ
tion shall issue accordingly and proceed against either or-both, at the '“my'
option of the plaintiﬁ‘ until he is satisﬁed ;‘ Provided nevertheless, if Proviso.
the execution against the security or securities be ﬁrst paid by him
or them, then the execution against the principal shall still be of
force and under the control of the security or securities, until the
same be satisﬁed by said principal§
_
433. Sec. III. Where security shall have been given, or may 1,, .m"ru
hereafter be given for the stay of an execution after judgment, cxe- ff|"'i°".;n‘c':
cution shall issue as in cases of appeal against the principal and se-§!£'$L
eurity, jointly or severally, and proceed and be controlled in like ‘ 0 n
ma.nner.I
“lhen any person or persons hath heretofpre or surgtic, on

shall hereafter become bail on recognizance, or security on bond ) "°"‘“’“°‘°"
Arc. when
note, or other contract, and shall be sued thereon, it shall and may “"°di WY
be lawful‘ for such bail or security on the trial of such case to make {T¢“f:::l?,o::il

special defense ;“1 and in case it should appear to the Court that one ’¢'ii'i§i'i§n‘
or. more of the defendants is or are securities only, and not interest- ﬁ"L‘,',‘,";,'§l§'“
ed in the consideration of the contract sued on, then and in such f,?l§-22?:
case verdict and judgment shall be entered accordingly, and further M to W
privilege: of
proceedings had, and privileges exercised as hereinbcfore prescribed such.
in behalf of the other securities; Provided, the plaintifff shall in no 1>m,,°_
'\Vhere only one of several parties appeals, surety's remedy is only against the
party appealing. See Art. III. "Action," " Verdicts, Judgment andAppeals," sec. 149
of this title.
fScc further, Acts of 1831 and 1845, secs. 439. 446.

ISimilar provision in Act of 1799. See “Verdict, Judgment, &c." under Art. III.
"Action," sec. 131.

§0nly against party appealing; see same Art. see. 149.
(1.) This provision cumulative, and does not take away the process by lei. fa. 6 Ga.
416.

(2.) Parol evidence admissible to show that he is surety. 6 Ga. 46.
Notice to lndorsers—Suits against.

case be delayed by any dispute which may arise between the defend
ants, but the Court shall decide the issues and the verdict which may
have been ﬁnally rendered on the issues between the defendants,
shall relate back to the time of the verdict and judgment in favor of
the plaintifff.
Home privl-J 435. Sec. V. In all cases in which any person or persons hath
"""“
those who heretofore become security in the manner hereinbefore speciﬁed, and
'“"°
"°' Judgment
has
been rendered
against
himmay
or them,
and
lcirlrlividliixw
been issued
accordingly,
in which
they
be able
to execution
show thathas
he
or they were security only, and as such hath or have been‘ paid off
and discharged such execution, such security or securities shall have
the beneﬁt thereof, and power to control the same, for the purpose
of indemnifying himself or themselves out of the proyerty of the
principal.
Wm ,,,,,_ 436. Sec. VI. When any security to any note, bond, or obliga
""‘ I“'* tion, shall subscribe himself as security, such statement appended to
I.-giimﬂhis his name on the said note, bond, or obligation, shall be held and tak
'..3§;".’..‘.'.?° en as good evidence of his being such security, and the plaintifff shall
,‘,“,,',§PJ,“¢,,,,,,sue out original and mesne process against him accordinglyi

An Act to tlt_-/inc the liability of emlorsers of pr0niisso1'y notes and oth
er instruments, and to place them upon the same footing with securi
ties.-—Approved Dec. 26, 1826. Vol. IV. 76.
E,,,,,,,,,,,,

437.

From and after the passage of this Act, that the practice

,‘;',‘,:;\c{1”,:,°"' heretofore required of making a demand of the makers of promis
9%

sory notes and other instruments. for the payment and performance
of the same, and their giving notice of such demand within a rea
sonable time to the-endorsers of said promissory notes and other in
struments,l shall cease and become entirely unnecessary to bind said

And ,,,, ,,,,.endorsers, and whenever any person whatever endorses a promis

a";jf,",’,'°,‘;";“ sory note or other instrument, he shall be held, taken, and consider
H°W“Y- ed as security to the same, and be in all respects bound as security,
until said promissory note or other instrument is paid off and dis
And my M charged} and shall be liable to be sued in the same manner and in

"'°"
lame‘“"‘°
action the same action with the principal or maker of said promissory
, notes
Wimlhs

or other instruments; any law, practice, or usage to the contrary

ii"i.‘1iii":.li¢s notwithstanding: Provided always that, nothing herein contained
mop!“ shall extend to any promissory notes which shall be given for the
purpose of negotiation, or intended to be negotiated at any chartered
bank, or which may be deposited in any chartered bank for collec
tion; and provided also, that nothing contained in this Act shall be
'“‘ Been" is a mistake in enrolling.
1'Sec Acts of 1831 and 1845, mending and explaining this Act. See also, Acts of 1839
and 1840, secs. 442, 443.
(1.) Foreign bills of exchange are included under this Act. 4 Ga. 101.
An itldorser in blank cannot show by parol that an unconditional note was intended to be
negotiated at bank. 4 Ga. 106.
(2.) A note made by A, payable to B or order, and indorsed by C, C under this Act in linbh
as surety. 4 Ga. 266.
Notice to sue-~—Controlto Surety.

construedasto prevent the endorser from deﬁning his liability in
the endorsement.
.
438. Sec. II. Any security or endorser may, whenever he thinks The MM!
proper, after the note or instrument becomes due, require the holder to r'l'.:l.ii:_::r'i'5ii

proceed to collect the same ; and if he should not proceed to do so L’,',,:','."f,,'_"‘
within three months, the endorser or security shall be no longer
liable.*

An. Act to alter and amend an Act, entitled an Act to define the liability
of securities on nppca-l, on stay of e1:rcuti0n, anrlfor the protection of
bail, on recognizance, be/ul, note or other c0ntract.—Approved Dec.

26, 1831.

Pam. 133.

Whereas, doubts exist whether the security or securities, against
whom judgment has been rendered, and execution has issued ac—
cordingly, upon any contract, bond or note, since the passage of the
above—recited Act, can have legally the control of the execution
where the same has been paid oif by such security or securities, and
they have neglected to make special defense at the trial, to indemni
fy themselves out of the property of the principal; for remedy
whereof,
439. Be -it L')lG.ClE(f, That from and after the passage of this Act, Bu,-mi”

it shall and may be lawful for any person or persons, who have here- ',ff,§,Y,,:‘,{‘Y.',

which they

mterested iii the consideration thereof, and Judgment has been renit‘ they nth

dered against them, and execution issued accordingly, and such se- fylhc Cour!
curity or securities haie been heretofore compelled to pay off such §,‘L°,i§:‘i“‘
judgment or execution, he, she, or they, shall be entitled to the con-.'“°"n
trol of the same for the purpose of remunerating him, her or them,
out of the property of the principal or principals:1 Provided always,_
that it shall be made satisfactorily appear to the Court from whence the
execution issued, that such person or persons assuming to have the.
control of any judgment or execution as aforesaid, were bona ﬁde secu
rity or securities only, upon the original bond, note or contract, which
was the foundation of the judgment and execution.
440. Where any security or securities as aforesaid, shall fail at Thouzh no,
the trial of the note, bond, or other instrument upon which he, she, '('l’;§.',“,,-§'.‘
or they, were security or securities, to make special defense thcre- {',‘,“,‘,‘_° “ “*
of, it shall be lawful for such security or securities to take control
after payment thereof, of the said/it. after complying w_it_h the
requisitions of the ﬁrst section of this Act, and that all have and
‘See also, Act of 1831, see. 441.

(l ) The lien dates back to the date of the judgment. 4 Ga. 128.
The several Statutes giving control to aurcties, extend to representatives of deceased surc
ties. 4 Ga. 52l.
To executors dc-son tort. Q;-icry ? 16.
The surety is entitled to the order giving control, although the judgment be dormant. 6
Ga. 580.

Bureties orfclaim bonds are included. Keith vs. IWwIchel. 9 Ga. Rep.
Notice to holder to sue—Cont:ol to Indorsers.

parts of laws militating against this Act, are, and the same are here
by repealed.

An Act rleclaring and making certain the law deﬁning the liability
rf endorsers and securities to promissory notes and other instru
ments, when the holder thereof shall fail to proceed to collect the
same after nolice.—Approved Dec. 26, 1831. Pam. 136.
Whereas, the Legislature of this State, did on the twenty-sixth
of December, 1826, pass an Act, entitled “an Act, to deﬁne the lia
bility of endorsers of promissory notes and other instruments, and to
place them upon the same footing with securities,” by the second
section of which Act, it is provided, that “any security or endorser
may whenever he thinks proper, after the note or instrument be
comes due, require the holder to proceed to collect the same, and if
he should not proceed to do so within three months, the endorser or
security shall be no longer liable ;” And whereas, the constitutionality
of said second section is doubted, by season of its departure from
the title of said bill; for remedy whereof,
The holdorj
4/ll. Be it enacted, That in every case which may hereafter arise,
of: bill,
.
.
.
noto,&c. where the security or endorser of any promissory note or other iii
{':,', ,",',‘,’§f,'d'sti'i1ment, after the same has or shall become due, has required or

"‘“'°“‘°" by shall hereafter require the holder thereof to proceed to collect the
the endorse r,
133011"! it same, and the said holder has not proceeded or shall not proceed to
month
3;?“ no " do so, within three months after such notice or requisition, the en
O|ldursor.:. dorser or security shall be no longer liable.1
lllll 0l'l

An Act to provide a remedyfor indorsers agaiizsl all prior irulorscrs and
the makers of promissory notes and other con/racls, in certain cases
therein mcnlioned.—Assented to Dec. 21, 1839. Pam. 58.
Bnnkin442. See. I. Be it enactetl, That from and immediately after the
charging H. passage of this Act, it shall and may be lawful for all persons who
‘,’f,'1.‘;‘j,':,:',‘;§} shall hereafter become endorsers on any promissory note, bond or
P *’"i"'b““° other contract, made in the face thereof payable at any cha‘rtered bank,
.i..soir.j
_
.
.
or which shall be negotiated at any chartered bank, or deposited there
dorser dis

for collection,* and where said ‘eridorsers are not interested in the

consideration thereof, and judgment has been rendered against them,
and execution has been issued thereon accordingly, and where such
‘Soc Act of 1850, sec. 453, as to all indorscrs.
(1.) Must sue a dormant partner when required to do so. 3 Kelly, 528.
An indorser who has paid off anote is a holder, and may be affected by notice. Ib. Where
the principal moved out of the State before the three months expired, held that the holder
had thefull three months in which to sue. lb.
'
Though the holder reside out of Georgia, if the indorsement be a Georgia contract, the in
dorser may give notice. 4 Ga. 10.
J
The notice by one surety innres to the beneﬁt of the others, 'where'mbi€"’tlXiin one. 4 Ga.
397. Notice to the cashier of it bank is suﬂicient, and banks are beltnwotiﬁed any holders. 6

Ga. {L

i" I
Bank Indorset to have control——Surety against Co-surety.

endorser or endorsers, shall hereafter be compelled to pay off such
judgments or executions, he, she, or they shall be entitled to the full
control of each and every judgment or execution that shall or may
be founded upon the same instrument as against the makers thereof,
a.nd all prior endorsers thereon, for the purpose of reimbursing and
remunerating him, her, or themselves out of the property of said
maker1 and endorsers: Provided, the person applying for such con
trol shall make it appear to the Court from whence the execution is- Proviso.
sued, that he was only endorser thereon, and not interested in the
consideration of said contract, and that he has bona ﬁde paid off
and discharged the judgment or execution that has been rendered or
issued against him, and all costs on the other judgments.
Sec. II. [Repealing clause]
An Act for the relief of »S‘ecun'ties.—Assented to Dec. 22, 1840.
Pam. 172.

I 443. Whereas, great inconvience arises, and often great injustice done
to individuals being parties in execution, under the existing law, as
co-securities—for the fact, that whereas one security (as the case
may be) having been compelled under execution to pay the debt or
obligation of his principal, is not allowed to control or collect by
said execution, each security’s proportionable part of said execution
so paid, but must proceed by an action at law ; for remedy whereof,
See. I. Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the pas- Surety dis-‘

sage of this Act, any security (who may be sued together with oth-},':‘,',,'§“'{,’:;.,
er securities) shall pay or discharge any execution or executions 31;, hi.
issued against principal or co-securities, shall, after an entry‘ is made' cosmﬂw
on the said executions by the collecting officer, that the same has
been well and truly paid by said security, then and in such cases,
the said security so paying or discharging said execution [shall have
control thereof] against each co-security who may have been made a
party to said suit, for the proportionable part equitably due by each,
and no more ;* Provided nevertheless, that all should be equally re
sponsible ; if not, then to be equally divided or paid by those who are.2
444. Sec. II. Any execution so paid or satisﬁed by two or more se- Two_nimii
curities, shall be held as the joint property of said secmities against all
the parties equally concerned for their proportionable part.
445. Sec. III. After payment and entry made, as herein prescribed, rs. he be
it shall be the duty of the officer making the entry to deliver said §iLl;f“ ‘°
execution to the security who shall have made the payment, to be
used and controlled as herein mentioned.
Sec. IV. All laws and parts of laws militating against this law
be, and the same are hereby repealed.
‘Amended by Act of 1850, secs. 448, 452.
(1.) Such control must be by order of Court, and a voluntary payment will authorize it. 1
Kelly. 205. In Equity, order need not be shown. I6. 2ll. This Act does not apply to any
but bank indorsers. Ib. 463. (See Act of 1850.)
(2.) Accommodation indorscrs are not liable to contribution, at Common Law, nor by our
Rights of Surety—-I)/ma jid" Purchaser-—Suit vs. Indorser.

An Act to explain and amend thc ﬁrst section of an Act approved
twentieth December, eighteen hundred and twenty-sir, entitled an
Act to define the liability of Securities on Appeal, on Stay of Eze
cutions, and for the protection of Bail on Recognisance, Bond,
Note or other Contract. Also to explain and amend theﬁrst sec
tion of an Act approved December twenty-sixth, eighteen hundred
and thirty-one, entitled an Act to alter and amend an Act, entitled

an Act to deﬁne the liability of Securities on Appeal, on Stay of
Executions, and for the protection of Bail on Recognizance, Bond,
Note, or other Contract.--Approved Dec. 27, 1845. Pam. 41.
Surety hors
rofors or
hereafter
dlrrhlrging
j. fa. lhlll
have mntrol

Bonn ﬁde

purchaser.

446. Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the passage
of this Act, it shall and may be lawful for any person or persons who
have heretofore become security on any note, bond or other instrument
in writing, and not interested in the consideration, and judgment has
been rendered against them, and such security or securities have
been heretofore compelled to pay off such judgment, or may
hereafter be compelled to pay off such judgmmt, he, she or they
shall be entitled to the control of the same, and be permitted to use
and control the same in as full and ample a manner as the party
plaintifff could have done against the principal debtor or debtors:
Provided always, that it shall be made satisfactorily appear to the
Court where said judgment was rendered, that such person, or per
sons assuming to have the control of any judgment as aforesaid,
were bona ﬁde security or securities only, upon the original bond,
note, or other instrument, which was the foundation of the judg
ment. Provided further, that this Act shall not affect the rights of
any bona ﬁde purchaser, without actual notice of such securityship
a'nd judgment, acquired before the passage of the same.
All laws and parts of laws, militating against this Act, be and the
same are hereby repealed.

An Act to prescribe the mode of signing Judgment and issuing Execu
tion against Endorscrs in certain cascsw-=Approved Dec. 27', 1845.
Pam. 39.
r
Judgment on
suits vs. in
donors shall
designate
the contract

Execution.

447'. Sec. I.

Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of

this Act, in all cases where one or more persons are endorsers upon
any bill of exchange, promissory note, or other instrument in writ
ing, and separate suits may be prosecuted against such endorsers in
any Court of this State, it shall be the duty of the plaintiff or his
attorney in signing judgment in such suits against such endorsers,
to designate and identify the contract on which such judgment is
rendered, and that execution shall issue accordingly.
Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be and are hereby repealed.

An Act to alter, amend and explain thefirst section of an Act passed/bf
the relief of Co-securities, assented to the 22d December, 1840, and
Surety's contrql vs. Co-sureties.

to authorize Constables to levy certain Ezecutions—Approved Feb.
8, 1850. Pam. 277.
Wltereas, great doubt exists whether a co-security who has been
sued with other securities as such, as also co-securities who have
omitted to sign the original note or contract as security, and also neg
lected to make special defense at the trial of the same, showing him
or themselves security on the original contract, and against whom
executions have issued, and who have been compelled to pay off the
same, can have control of the same for the purpose ‘of reimbursing
him or themselves out of the property of the co-securities :""

448. See. I.

For remedy whereof; be it enacted, That from and §,':v':'\_>;m‘°m,

immediately after the passage of this Act, any security who may :‘r;;i::;ﬁ:.i
have been, or who may hereafter be sued as such, with other co-se
curities, and against whom execution may have been, or may be is
sued, and who may have been, or may hereafter be compelled to
pay off the same, shall, afteran entry made by the collecting oﬂicer,
that the same has been well and truly paid by such security, have
control of the execution or executions for the purpose of reimburs
ing him or themselves proportionably, out of the property of the
co-security or securities
449. Sec. II. Any security who may have been or may be sued 9‘"'°‘Y “'l'°
does not ap
together with other securities, and who have omitted or may omit pm mi. to sign the original note or contract as security, and who when sued iiiii iii it»
have neglected or may neglect to make special defense at the trial, $,:','§;&,}"

showing himself or themselves security on the oﬁginal contract, and-F--I"
against whom execution has issued or may issue, and who have been
or may be compelled to pay off the same, shall upon showing to the
Court from whence said execution or executions issued, that he or

they were bona ﬁde security or securities on the original contract,
and not interested in the original consideration, have an entry by the
Court that he or they are security or securities on the execution or ex
ecutions, and after which, and upon having an entry‘ made by the
collecting oﬁicer, on the execution or executions, that the same has
been well and truly paid by said security or securities, then and in
such cases, said security or securities so paying off and discharging
said execution or executions, shall have control of the same for the Contnbutiolf
purpose of collecting by levy and sale from each co-security so sued :,",'§,',':,i:ﬁ°

together, or such as may be responsible, the proportionable share
due by each upon such execution or executions: Provided never
theless, that if any should not be responsible, then the amount so
paid on said execution or executions by such security, is to be equa.l
ly divided between those securities who are.
Sec. III. [Authorizing Constables to levy executions against
Sheriff.
See Art. III. “Action,” “ Execution, Sale,” &c. sec.
205, of this title.]
Sec. IV. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,

be and the same are hereby repealed.
‘See also, next Act.
Judgment vs. Surety alone—Control-—Indorser:—Usury.

An Act to amend an Act entitled an Act to alter and amend an Act

entitled an Act to define the liability of sureties on Appeals, §'c.
Approved Décember 26th, 1831.-——ApprovedFeb. 23, 1850. Parn.

280.
vn\mJ-|_ar450. See. I.

Be ft enacted, That whenever any person has or

:';i;§ii.'ii.i shall become surety on any note, bond or other contract, and fails to
m_ "" sign his name as such, and separate actions are brought against such
surety and his principal, and the surety shall or may pay‘ off the
judgment rendered against himself, and shall make it appear to the
Court in which the judgment was obtained, that he was only a sure
ty on such bond, note, &,e. and not interested in the consideration
thereof, that then and in that event, he shall be entitled to the con
trol of the judgment against his principal for the purpose of remun
erating himself out of his property.
Sultn.unro- 451. Sec. II. When any surety shall or may sign his name as
,‘',{,,'1‘[‘,‘_.‘‘,‘,,‘,‘,‘,’' such, to any bond, note or other contract, and separate suits are

'“'“°h-.

brought against him and his priricipal, that he shall be sued as surety
and as such, mesne and ﬁnal process shall go against him, and on his
paying oil‘ the judgment obtained against himself, he snall have con
trol of the execution against his principal for his reimbursement.
Cmtml 0M 452. Sec. III. Where there are two or more sureties to any

fa. vs. eo

nnreties
note, bond, or other written contract, and such snreties are or may be
ldigrrlilliﬁi sued in separate actiqns, the surety paying off the debts shall have

the control of the executions obtained against his co-sureties, for
the purpose of collecting out of them their pro rata part of the debt ;
and if such surety should fail to sign his name as such, then on his
making it appear to the Court in which such suit was brought, that
he was only asurety, and not interested in the consideration of the
debt, he shall have the control of the executions issued against his
co-securities to the same extent and for the same purpose as is pro
vided in the foregoing part of this section.
I.,,"‘:',’,'’,‘,‘,{,.,
453. Sec. IV. If separate suits are or hereafter may be brought
°‘"'.""‘
in
any of the_ Courts of this State, against
the maker and endorsers
ugumtma,
ke_r and pri- of any promissory note, and the debt is or may be collected of one of

°“‘“d““"' said endorsers, in that event such endorser, for his reimbursement,
shall have the control of the execution issued against the maker of
the note, as well also aslof the execution obtained against any of the
prior eudorsers.
Sec. V. All laws and parts of laws mditating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.

ART. XXII.
Sec. 454. Discovery of Usury,
" 455. Proof by defendant.

USURY.
Sec. 456. Examination of party.

An Act to compel parties plairttzfs -in the several Courts of this
Stete, where the plea of Usury isﬁled, to discover on oath, the
Plea of Usury——Discovery-—Procccdings.
truth or falsehood of the facts stated in such plea, or to allow the
defendant, in case of refusal by the plainttﬁ, to establish the facts
contained in such plea by his own oath, without a bill for discov
erg/.—Assented to Dec. 28, 1842. Pam. 178.
454. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of mon tzillwat
this Act, that in all cases in the several Courts in this State, when andrryiuticeio

the plea of usury shall he pleaded, the party plaintifff in such case, {1".;‘,,','.",',,'r,l,I1,°,L
upon notice of such plea, accompanied by a. copy of such plea, and :23 ‘,',',§,"y","
which shall be served upon said plaintifff, his agent or attorney, ‘C",,~'_";',:;f,*;l’;‘,,
within one month from the ﬁling ‘of such plea of the case in the M-wvcr on
Superior or Inferior Court, and within ten days, if the case isinfgihlliamn
any Justice’s Court, or any other Court, discover on oath, by his writ- ‘M
ten affidavit, to be made before some oﬂicer legally authorized to
administer an oath, whether the fact or facts set forth in said plea,
are true as to the usury, and whether or not the contract upon which
said suit is brought was usurious, and such written aﬂidavit may be AM I."
read
455.
in evidence
Sec. II. onIfthe
any
trial
party
of said
plaintifff
case shall
by either
fail or
party.1
refuse to make iiiilg
,l’lﬂiIli\Yh"
the discovery as provided in the ﬁrst section of this Act, that the i§,°d:r':rii?{

party defendant in said case may make an aiﬁdavit in writing, before“, "'°"’
any officer authorized to administer an oath, of the truth of the
facts set forth in his plea as to the usury therein pleaded, and said
afﬁdavit of the defendant may be read on the trial by either party to
said case.
456. Sec. III.

The party where aﬁidavit is used as evidence we am,"

as provided in the ﬁrst or second sections of this Act, shall be put '_c'l§.:':ltu:
upon the stand, and cross examined by the other party as other "‘°¢
witnesses.
‘
Sec. IV. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
he and the same are hereby repealed.
[Statutes relative to the “Judiciary,” omitted as obsolete, repealed
or superseded.
If the plnintiﬁ‘ ﬁles his uﬁidnvit as required, though the usury is not discovered, the
defendant cannot usehis own. 4 Ga. 474.
I. Sec. I. From and after the ﬁrst day of January next, the
Chief Magistrate of the City of Augusta shall be known and addres
sed by the appellation of Mayor, and not intendant of the City of
Augusta.'|'
2. Sec. II. A Mayor’s Court shall be established, and the same
is hereby created and established in the City of Augusta, to go into
operation after the ﬁrst day of January next, And the aforesaid May
or of the City ofAugusta shall be, and he is hereby constitutedludge
of the said Court.I
‘Acts authorizing discoveries st Common Law extended to this Court.
rior and Inferior Court." "Jurisdiction," Art. H. see. 59.
1'Nume changed, sec. 15.

1Judge elected by Legislature.

Sec. 16.

Bee “ Supeo
New Trin1s—Jurors—-Institution of suit.

An. Act to amend the foregoing.—Approved December 17, 1818.
From and after the passing this Act, the Mayor’s Court I

- of the City of Augusta, shall have cognizance of all causes of a
civil nature, &c., which shall be tried by a Jury of twelve men, to
whom shall be administered the oath prescribed by the Judiciary Act
of 1799 for Jurors in other Courts, which trial shall be ﬁnal ;"“ but Ne Irv»!

the Judge of said Court may nevertheless grant a new trial when in New mu-.
his opinion, the principles of Law and Justice, and the rights of the
case required it. And the Mayor is hereby authorized and empow- 532:"!
ered in term time or vacation, to draw and irnpannel Jurors for the
'
trial of such causes, who shall be resident within the jurisdiction of
said Court, and who shall be qualiﬁed and liable to serve as petit Jurors ;1i‘c11a@'i;miL“¢1i
in the Superior and Inferior Courts of this State, and to cause the
said Jurors to be summoned by the City Sheriff, at least ﬁve days 222;?
before the sitting of the Court, and to ﬁne them for non-attendance or
'
misconduct, not exceeding ten dollars for any one offense.
Sec. II.
The ﬁrst part of this section is superseded by sub
sequent Acts.
But if the said Court, from any cause whatever, {.';fﬁ':{f °‘
shall fail to meet, the proceedings in said Court shall not thereby be 33$-ieI;iu';i.1ilnd
discontinued, but shall stand continued over ingthe same manner as
'
it such failure had not taken place. And the Jury summond to at- _§"'l';*U;\s'_'°
tend such Court shall stand over and be considered as the Jury for
the next term, and be liable to attend at such succeeding term, any
law, usage or custom to the contrary notwithstanding. And all wit- rm:-‘$8
nesses and Jurors going to, attending on, and- returning from said frre from ur

Court, shall be free from arrest on any civil process.

"8"

4. Sec. III. All suits or causes, cognizable by, and which may :'1i':ﬂ:i:;i'
be commenced in the Mayor’s Court of the City of Augusta, shall be nlitsin the

by petition to the said Court; which petition shall plainly, fully, and M""'''“’‘
distinctly set forth the plaintifff ’s charge, allegation, demand, or cause
of action, and shall be signed by the plaintifff, or his, her, or their 'at
torney ; to which petition the Clerk of the Mayor’s Court shall annex
a process signed by him, which process shall bear teste in the name
of the Mayor, as Judge of said Court, and shall be directed to the Sheriff
of the City of Augusta, requiring the defendant or defendants to appear
at the Court to which the same shall be made returnable, and shall be

served on the defendant or defendants, at least ﬁve daysf before the
return thereof, by delivering a copy to such defendant or defendants, *"‘°’~
or by leaving such copy at his, her, or their most notorious place or

places of residence. And all process issued and returned in any other
manner than as herein directed, shall be null and void.

And the de

fendant or defendants shall appear at the Court, to which the peti-;;§J éfﬁ:

tion and process shall be returnable, and on or before the last day of
the said Court, shall make his, her, or their defense or answer in
writing, which shall plainly, fully, and distinctly set forth the cause
of the defense, and be signed by the party making the same, or his,
‘Appeal allowed.

Sec, 33.

‘Nine by Act of 1837. see. 54.
lnstuuuon of Suit-—I’roceedings thenou.

her or their attorney ; which said answer may contain as many sev
eral matters, not inconsistent with each other, as may\._bc deemed
‘ necessary for the defense: Providel that no person shall be permit
ted to deny any deed, bond, bill, single or penal, note, draft, receipt,
or order, unless he, she, or they shall make atﬁdavit of the truth of
such answer at the time of ﬁling the same. And the said petition
hmand answer shall be sufficient to carry the cause to the Jury. And
'",L§?" no dilatory answer shall be received, unless aiﬁdavit be made of the
l>¢f=ulttruth thereof. And if any defendant shall fail to appear and answer
as aforesaid, the Court may, on motion, give judgment by default,
but the cause shall nevertheless be tried by a Jury at the succeeding
Notrial ll term; and no cause cognizable in said Court shall be tried at the
the first term ﬁrst tcrm.*

Any 0» 9f

5. Sec. IV. In all cases where a suit shall be instituted in the said

uveraljmnt

obliggn,&;.i Court on a bond, note or other written obligation, subscribed by several
may a su
separately,
persons, and which in its nature is joint, several,or joint and several, or
upon any joint,or joint and several contract whatever,whether verbal or
written, express or implied, and whether made by copartners in trade
or any other person whatever, it shall be lawful to commence suit
against any one or more of the persons who have signed such instru
ment of writing, or who are parties to or bound by such contract,
and who shall reside within the jurisdiction of said Court, and a ser
vice upon any one or more of the persons against whom the action is
commenced, shall be deemeda suﬂicient service to enable the party
plaintifff to proceed with his said suit or action, vainst the person or
persons so served, and the Court may give judgment accordingly.
mdsvilfor 6. Sec. V. In all cases where bail shall be required, the party
'
requiring bail shall make oath before the Mayor, or any member
of the City Council, or before any one of the Judges of the Superior
Courts, the Justices of the Inferior Courts, or Justices of the Peace,

within this State, of the amount claimed by him, and that he has
reason to apprehend the loss of said sum or some part thereof, if the
defendant or defendants is or are not held to bail.-t And the subse
zxgnstutgg guent proceedings shall conform to those prescribed in cases of bail

main”.

1n the Supenor and Inferior Courts, by the Judiciary Act of force in
thils State, due regard being had to the nature of the diﬂ'erent tribu

na s.
mllxjiel
7. Sec. VI. The Clerk of the Mayor’s Court shall be, and he is
punu.
hereby authorized and required to issue subpoenas to compel the at
tendance of witnesses, upon the application of any party in a cause
pending in said Court, which subptena shall be directed to the person
whose attendance shall be required,when such person shall reside with
in the limits of the corporation of Augusta,which subpoena shall express
the cause and the party at whose suit it shall be issued, and shall be
served by the City Sheriff or any other person, on said witness, at
least one day before the Court to which it shall be returnable ; and
the aﬂidavit of the person serving the same, shall be snﬂicient evi
1'As to rent cases, see. 28.
c ause.
1‘See sec. 39.

See also see. 32 and 48, and sec. 63, re-enacting this
Interrogatori es—Executions—Attachments.

dence of such service ; and witnesses thus subpoenaed shall be bound
to attend till the cause in which he, she, or they shall be summoned,
shall be tried, and on failure to attend, shall be subject to attachment, .
and also to an action at the suit of the party aggrieved by his, her,
or their non-attendance ; and each and every witness shall be allowed
ﬁfty cents per day for each and every day he, she, or they at
tend, by virtue of such subpoena, to be recovered in the manner
' pointed out by the laws now in force, for the recovery of the amount
due witnesses for their attendance on the Superior and Inferior
Courts of this State.
8. Sec. VII. Where any witness resides beyond the limits of the lump»
corporation of Augusta, it shall and may be lawful for either party, n“
on giving at least three day’s notice to the opposite party, or his, her,
Me’
or their attorney, accompanied with a copy of the interrogatories in
tended to be exhibited, to obtain a commission from the Clerk of
the Court, directed to two or more persons as commissioners, to ex
amine all and every such witness or witnesses on such interrogatories
as the parties may exhibit, and such examination shall be read at
the trial on motion of either party.*
9. Sec. VIII. All executions shall be issued and signed by E!!cl_rtlnIl

the Clerk of the Mayor’s Court, at any time afterthe signing ofjudg- il',i’.l§‘i:}’e1,
ment by the party or his attorney ; and shall bear teste in the name ““°”“““"‘
of the Mayor as Judge of said Court, and shall be directed to the
Sheriﬂ‘ of the City,T and may be levied upon the estate, both real and
personal, of the defendant or defendants, or issue against the body
of the defendant or defendants, ' at the option of the plaintifff,
which execution shall be of full force until satisﬁed. And in all cas~
es of illegality of execution or claims of property, levied upon by vir- :1|§!:l':!3‘ns_
tue of any execution issuing from the Mayor’s Court, the like pro
ceedings shall be had thereon, as are prescribed in cases of executions
issuing from the Superior and Inferior Courts of this State, by the
Judiciary Act of 1799. And all sales of property levied upon, by shw sales.
virtue of any execution issuing from the Ma_vor’s Court, shall be on
the third Tuesday in each month, at the market house in the City of Dlrwf M"!
Augusta, and between the hours of ten o’clock in the forenoon, and
three o’clock in the afternoon of the day. And it shall be the duty of Advmiso
the Sheriﬂ" to give at least ten days’ notice in one of the public gazettes me“
of the City of Augusta, of all sales of property executed by him, and
also to advertise the same at the Court house and lllarltet house in
said City, and which advertisement shall make known the names of
the parties to the execution.
10. Sec. IX. From and after the passing of this Act, it shall and,/“y‘"‘:1g"'°"t' ,
may be lawful for the Mayor, or any member of the City Council of the be iwm-m
City of Augusta, to issue attachments“‘ returnable to the Mayor’s
Court in cases(within the jurisdiction of said Court) where both debtor In mm cas
and creditor shall reside without the limits of the State of Georgia, or Q"
where the debtor alone resides without those limits, or where a debtor
shall be actually removing from the City of Augusta, or so absconds
or conceals himself, that the ordinary process of law cannot be served
‘See m. 23.

ﬂint see sec. 21.
Election, &:c. Clerk—Sheriﬂ' and.Deputy.

upon him in the same manner, and upon the same terms, as are pre
4 scribed for the issuing attachments returnable to the Superior and Infe
llwdim,_ rior Courts of this State; which attachment shall be directed to the

,';‘n!‘;:,“,

Sheriff of the City of Augusta, and shall be levied upon the property
of the defendant, within the corporate hmits of the said City, in like
manneras is prescribed for the levy of attachments, returnable to the
Superior and Inferior Courts of this State: Provided, that every attach- '
ment shall bear teste in the name of the Mayor or member of Council
and adver- issuing the same, and shall be by the City Sheriff publicly advertised
‘M
at the door of the house in which the Mayor’s Courts are holden, at
least ﬁve days before the sitting of the Court ; and the proceedings
om; pro- under attachments in the Mayor’s Courts shall be the same in all

cases where such proceedings can be made applicable, as are pre

'

scr'bed by the Attachment Acts of force in this State, any law,
usage, or custom to the contrary notwithstanding.

Election and 11. Sec. X. It shall and may be lawful for, and it is hereby
:}'2,l‘:,,°f‘,‘,';’,}‘_ made the duty of the City Council of Augusta, at their ﬁrst regular
meeting after the ﬁrst day of January in each and every second year,
to elect by ballot, a Clerk for the Mayor’s Court, and a Sheriff for the
City of Augusta,‘ who shall take an oath, and give security as herein
pointed out: that is to say, the.Clerk so elected, shall take the follow
ing oath, before the Mayor or any member of the City Council : “I do
0Mk'=wh-solemnly swear or affirm, that I will truly and faithfully enter and re
cord all the orders, decrees, judgments, and other proceedings of the
Mayor‘s Court of the City of Augusta and all other matters and
things which by law ought by me to be recorded, and that I will
faithfully and impartially discharge and perform all the duties requir
ed of me, to the best of my understanding ”—and such Clerk shall
Bent
enter into bond, with one or more good and suﬂicient security or se
eurities, to the Governor for the time being, in the sum of one thou
sand dollars conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties re
Jnsllceofthe quired of him; and the said Clerk shall, by virtue of his office, be
3:3?“ Justice of the Peace, so far as to administer all oaths, appertaining to
the business of his ofﬁce ; and it shall be the duty of said Clerk, to
l:.‘:“':‘\,li'I{gin copy into a book of record, all the proceedings in said Court, for
an foes. ' which he shall be allowed the sum of ten cents for every hundred
words of recording such proceedings, to be taxed in the bill of costs;
Minutes. and the said Clerk shall also keep regular and fair minutes of all the
proceedings in the said Court, which shall be signed by the Judge
of the said Court: and the City Sheriff shall, in like manner, take
om: msmrthe following oath: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm as the case

“'4 Dewy’ may be) that I will faithfully execute all writs, warrants, precepts

3°“

and processes, directed to me as Sheriff of the City of Augusta, and
true returns make, and in all things well and truly, and without mal
ice or partiality, perform the duties of the office of Sheriff of the City
of Augusta, during my continuance in oﬁice, and take only my law
ful fees ;” and an oath to the same purport shall be taken by the deputy
of the said Sheriff, should he think proper to appoint one, which he is
hereby authorized to do in like manner ; and the said City Sheriff shall
enter into bond with two good and sufﬁcieut securities to the Gov

ernor for the time being, and his successors in office, in the sum of
Fees——Sa.le duys—Consolidation of cases.

ten thousand dollars, conditioned for the faithful performance of his
duty, by himself and his deputies; and which bond the Mayor or
any member of the Council is authorized to take ; and the said Clerk mm ml

and Sheriff shall in every instance continue in office, until a succes- cS,',‘,‘,‘,‘?,',l,:",f,“
sor shall be appointed and qualiﬁed, notwithstanding the period shall °ﬂ‘" ""1
the qualiﬁca
have elapsed for which they shall have been elected; and the Clerk tion ohheir
successors,
and Sheriff upon going out of oﬂice, shall turn over to their succes— to whom
sors, all papers and process of what nature or kind socver in their §l,§ ;',':,',',u
possession ; and the said succeeding Sheriﬁ‘ shall be empowered and g‘,g;°ggf;;,,
required to carry into effect any levy made by his predecessor, and illnlmgetslleor
shall make titles to the purchasers for all the property sold under hiuprc‘deeu
execution, and not conveyed by his predecessor : and the same rem- M
edy may be had against the said Clerk and Sheriff, as is prescribed
by the Judiciary Act against Clerks and Sheriffs, in the respective
Counties of this State.
12;; Sec. XI. The Clerk of the Mayor’s Court, and the Sheriff of Their fees

the/City of Au usta, shall be authorized to charge, demand, and re- g,'§.’¢”,'¢'§,::1
ceive the same ees that the Clerks of the Superior Courts, and the '“"' s"'“"
Sheriffs of the respective Counties in this State, are by law au
thorized to charge, demand, and receive for the performance of sim
ilar duties; and shall have the same remedy for enforcing payment
of their fees respectively as are employed by those oﬂicers respect
ively, any law, usage, or custom to the contrary notwithstanding.*
An
to amend an Act establishing a Mayor’s Court in the City
of ‘Augusta-, and also the several Laws irtcorporatillg said City.
Approved Dec. 9, 1822. Vol. IV. 210.
Sec. I. and II. [Superseded by subsequent Acts.]
13. "Sec. III. The sale day of the Sheriff of said City shall be Bay of
on the ﬁrst Tuesday in the month; and in all cases of levy on real SW" "“"'
estate or negroes, the time of advertising and all other proceedings
shall be the same asis required by law of the County Sheriffs in
similar cases.
14. Sec. IV. The said Mayor’s Court shall not maintain jurisdic- Certain
tion of more than one case at the same term between the same par-§1“::i-sgli-'
ties, when such causes can be legally joined in one action, although ""°“'
the same may be on different contracts ; but the same shall on mo
tion be consolidated, and the defendant shall not be bound to pay
any more cost than would have accrued on one action; and when cm‘.
on such consolidation the amount demanded shall exceed the juris
diction of said Court, as hereinbefore expressed, the plaintifff shall
be non suit.

An Actjar the better organization 1fthe Mayor’s Court ol the City of
Augusta, andfor changing the name of the mme.—Passed in 1826.
Vol. IV. 218.
15.

From and after the passing of this Act, the Court now known

‘But see no. 19.
J udge—Jurisdiction— Foes of Oﬂicers.
as the Mayor’s Court of the City of Augusta, shall be called the
Court of Common Pleas for the City of Augusta.
16. Sec. II.

The Judge of tlie said Court shall be elected by the

‘,"“u';3,'.'L"‘="‘ Legislature immediately after the passing of this Act, and shall hold
his office for the term of three years, unless removed therefrom by
the Governor, on the address of two-thirds of both houses of the
General Assembly.
Sec. III. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
are hereby repealed.

An Act to regulate the jurisdiction ofthe Court q/~ Common Pleas for the
'h City Q/Augusta, the/bcs 0/ the Attorneys, Clark and S/ienlﬂ Ilurrerg/',
and for diminishing the number q/‘its terms from twelve tofour durinf
the year ; anJ_/br other pur1ufscs.—Approved Dec. 19, 1828. V0 .
From and after the passage of this Act, the Court of Com

°““° C"‘""mon Pleas for the City ot Augusta shall have jurisdiction over any
suit or action er conlractu, whereiuthe principal debt amounts to the
sum of two l1undred and ﬁtty dollars, exclusive oi interest ; and in
any suit or action 0.1; deliclo, wherein the damages claimed do not
exceed the sum of two hundred and ﬁfty dollars, but not in any
suit or action over which Justices of the Peace have hitherto had
jurisdiction.*'‘
Sec. II. [Fixing the Court terrns--superseded]
Am,me,,,
18. Sec. Ill. The attorneys practising in said Court shall receive
as a tax-fee on all suits brought before said Court, and perfected to
judgment, the sum of three dollars; and on all suits brought and
settled before judgment, the sum of two dollars.
19. The Clerk and Sheriff of the Court aforesaid shall have and

s“"""“" receive but two-thirds of the fees heretofore allowed to each respec
tively by law, and the practice of said Court, to be chzirgedas costs
against the suiters in said Court.
00,, ,0
20. Sec. IV. It shall be the duty of the Clerk of said Court,
§flL§€‘::,‘}'e‘;_ upon the institution of any suit to collect and receive from the
plaintifff the fee which is allowed by law to the Judge of said Court
and required to be advanced at the institution of said suitrl‘
1-he,-,an of

21. Sec. V.

All judgments obtained in said Court, shall have a

{,"c%‘:;§f"' lien on all property belonging to defendant throughout the State,
Bmu,,°,,,_ and all executions shall be directed to the City Sheriff, and all and

singular -the Sheriffs of the State of Georgia, and may be levied on
property throughout the said State: Provided, that the City Sher
iff shall levy all executions on property within the limits of the cor
poration.
The ,,,,,,,,,, 22. Sec. VI. The Sheriﬁ" and Clerk of said Court shall be liable
°‘ "in! "‘° to be sued in said Court, in the same names [manner] in which other
Clerk and
Bhpritfin parties are made defendants; and when the Clerk of said Court shall
saul Court
zrescnlled, be defendant in any suit or action, it shall be the duty of said
Ca

‘But see um. 24 and 46.

:tSce seen 42 and 62
Clerk to copy the petition upon which the said suit is founded, and
annex a process thereto, which shall be signed by the Judge of said
Court, and ‘shall be served in the same manner as in other cases; and
it shall be the duty of the Clerk aforesaid to make out ﬁnal process
in any case in which he may be interested,,which shall be signed by
the Judge of said Court, and executed as in all other cases; and
when the Sheriff of the Court aforesaid shall be defendant inany
suit brought before the Court aforesaid, it shall and may be lawful
for the Marshal of the City, or any one of the City Constables, to
effect service on said City Sheriﬂ‘, and such service shall be deemed
good and valid; and it shall moreover be lawful for the Marshal, or
any City Constable, to execute all processes against the Sheriff, and
the proceedings thereon shall be the same as in other Courts.
23. See. VII. All laws regulating attachments* in relation to Attarhm'lI;
evidence and the taking of depositions by interrogatories, in force §;,‘,‘,‘,’,.{'§,*,,_
in the Superior Courts of this State, shall be of force in the City
Court.
Sac. VIII. All laws or parts of laws repugnant to the provisions
of this Act, are hereby repealed.
An Act to amend the several Acts respecting the Court of Common
Pleas of the City of Augusta.—-Approved Dec. 21, 1829. Vol.
IV. 226.
24. From and after the passage of this Act the Court of Com- Jiririhulifgion

men Pleas for the City of Augusta, shall have jurisdiction in all greuinriiiiiin
civil cases (except such as involve title to real estate, or that may {",',’;‘,,}"_,‘,'}‘_'
fall within a. Magistrate’s jnrisdiction,) where the sum claimed, ‘or §;';','b“e,[‘”'
the demands of the plaintifff shall not exceed the sum of three hun
dred dollars, exclusive of interest.T
25. Sec. II.

The Judge of the said Court of Common Pleas f‘m_'=;'_"_rH'

shall, in the absence of the Judge of the Superior, have concurrentii!i';i‘i;ii'§n
jurisdiction with the Justices of the Inferior Court, in all matters ;;iL'lf,',lZ',,,.,
of habeas corpus, and shall also have full power and authority to is
sue warrants upon criminal charges, to examine persons approhcnd- In rrimim-1
ed under said warrants, and to commit, discharge, or admit to bail cum
in the same manner that a Justice of the Peace may now do: Pro
ridcd, that the otfence charged, and upon which the said Judge mayrmvao.
issue his warrant, hath been committed, or that the same is alleged
to have been committed in the said City of Augusta.
26. Sec. Ill. The Judge of said Court of Common Pleas, or l1:'l"'h°‘,w
any member of the City Council, shall have full power and author-n M m '
ity to issue attachments, which shall be returnable to the said Court,
and within the jurisdictional amount of the same in all those cases
where a Judge or other olﬁcer may now, according to law, issue at
tachments.I
‘Sec sec. 25. As to garnishments, see title “ Attachment and Gamishmcnt," sec.
27. See also, see. 55, of this title.

1'See sec. 46, extending itto $500.
;See sec 23, and note thereto.
Stay of Executiom, &c.

_vvs¢-Mp

27. Sec. IV.

In all cases brought in the said Court, where the

H""'”'°'M'Judge thereof shall be a party or interested therein, it shall be the

duty of a Justice of the Inferior Court of Richmond County to pre
side at the trial of the same.
B""°'"'28. Sec. V. All actions commenced in said Court for the recov
ery of rent, orarrear, shall be tried at the ﬁrst term, unless good
cause be shown for acontinuance ; and judgment shall be given upon
éhﬁn all writs of scire facias against bail at the term of said Court to which
they may be returnable, unless suﬂicient cause be shown for a con
tinuance.
M ,,,,,,, 29. Sec. VI. In all cases where a suit shall be instituted in the
‘°"""‘°"
said_ _ Court, on
any open account, bond, note or other obligation _in
than one
_
"4 °“° ’
wntmg, agamst “V0 01' IHOPB persons, and any Of the dCf‘0Ild€1IltS ID.
:rﬂ.ld:;u':l::,
said suit shall reside out of the City of Augusta, the Clerk of said
i'|‘iii|pri‘.’“" Court shall make out an original petition and process, and a copy or
‘°""'
copies thereof for each County in which the defendant or defendants
may reside ; and it shall be the duty of the plaintifff, or his attorney,
to deliver the said original and copy to the Sheriff of the County
in which the defendant or defendants may reside, whose duty it
shall be to serve the same and to make due return thereof to the said
Court, and the plaintifff shall then proceed as in other cases: Prom‘
W
dqd, that at least one of the defendants reside in said City, and be
served with process.
See. VII. {Superseded.]
my 0;
30. See. I III. Any party against whom a judgment may be en
l""“‘°°"- tered, may stay the levy of execution for the space of sixty days, on
payment of all costs, and giving good and;-sufficient security within
four days after judgment for the payment of the debt so recovered,
and all future costs which may accrue therein; and if such party
shall fail to pay the same agreeably thereto, execution may issue
against such party and the security, without any other proceeding
thereon.
Sr-:c. IX. Any law or parts oflaws militating against the provis

ions of this Act are hereby repealed,
An A1-Ho amend an Act entitled an Act to amend the several Acts
respecting the Court of Com/num Pleas ofthe City of Augusta.—
Approved Dec. 21, 1830. Pam. 53.
D,,m,m
31. All suits instituted in the Court of Common Pleas, of the
23$? inCity of Augusta, shall in future be conﬁned to party defendants,
who peside at the time of commencing suit within the corporate
limitsof the City of Augusta.
Sec. II, Any law, or parts of laws militating against this Act,
are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend the several Acts regulating the Courts of Common
Pleas for the City of Augusta.—Approvcd Dec. 26, 1831.
Judgment by dcl'ault—Appcal-—Spccial Jury.
32. From and after the passing of this Act, in all cases brought Judzmen.
in said Court, wherein no plea shall be ﬁled, the Court shall award dogma’
judgment upon proof of the plaintifff ’s demand.*
33. From and after the passing of this Act, in case either party AWL
shall be dissatisﬁed with any verdict rendered in any cause in said
Court, an appeal shall be allowed to such party, upon compliance
with the law now of force, regulating appeals; but the said appeal
shall not be transmitted to the Superior Court as heretofore, but shall
be tried as is hereinafter directed.
34. Immediately after the passing of this Act, and every second ﬂown!

term thereafter, it shall be the duty of the Judges of said Court, "um"
with the aid of the Clerk and Sheritf of said Court, to select from the

list of tax returns made to the City Council of Augusta, ﬁt and prop
er persons to serve as special Jurors in said Court, who shall reside
in said City, and it shall be the duty of the Clerk of said Court, to
make out tickets with the names of the persons so selected, which How drawn,
tickets shall be put in a box to be provided by the Clerk, which box
shall have two apartments, marked number one and two, and the
Clerk shall immediately after receiving such list fairly enter the
same in a book to be provided by him for that purpose, which said
box shall be locked and sealed up by the Judge and placed in the
care of the Clerk, and the key in the care of the Sheriff, and no
Jury shall be drawn and impanncled, but in presence of the Judge
in open Court, and it shall be the duty of the Judge in open Court at
each time, to unlock and break the seal, and cause to be drawn out of

the apartment of the said box marked number one, twenty-three names
to serve as special Jurors at the next term of said Court, which names
so drawn out, shall after an account is taken of them at each time of
drawing, be deposited in the other apartment of such box marked
number two; and when all the names shall be drawn out of the
apartment number one asaforesaid, they shall commence drawing
from number two, and placing in number one, and so on altern
atel3y5.. The twenty-three persons whose names shall be drawn as summoned,
aforesaid, shall be summoned in the same manner as Petit Jurors
now are in said Court, and in case of failure of any of them to at

tend, each of them so failing shall be fined in a sum not exceeding
twenty dollars.
36. When any appeal cause in said Court, shall be called for tri- and mat.
til, it shall be the duty of the Clerk to furnish list of special Jurors
in attendance, and a Jury of twelve shall be struck in the same way
and manner as is now required by law in the Superior Courts; and
in case a suﬁicient number of special Jurors should not attend, the
Courtshall have power to attach and bring in those who are in de
fault, or to summon tales Jurors, or both. And on special Jury trials,
in said Court, the Jury shall have the same power to assess damages, Dumps
as‘ special Juries have in the Superior Court, and shall be sworn:
“well and truly to try the causes submitted to them, and true ver
dicts to give, according to law and evidence.”
‘See sec. 48.

But sec sec. 53.
Appeal C0sts—Bail—Insolvent Debtors.

Xnaoivcnts.

37'. When any application shall be made to said Court, by any in
solvent debtor or debtors, for the beneﬁt of the Act for the relief of
gar: ogmmhonest debtors, and a suggestion of fraud or concealment, or both,

‘u 0

shall be made by the creditor or creditors of said debtor or debtors,

the said suggestion shall be tried before the special Jury.
38. In all appeal causes in said Court, the same costs shall be tax
ed as are taxed in the Superior Court in such cases; and all the ex
penses of furnishing record books, dockets, ﬁre wood for Clerk’s of
ﬁce, and stationary for the use of said Court, shall be paid out of the
he ﬁnes money that may be collected for Jury ﬁnes, and the balance remain
ing at each term after paying said expenses, shall be paid to the City
Council of Augusta.
l:;LI.:gibt::vil 39. »Whenever bail shall be required in any case about to be in
quen} mi stituted in said Court, it shall be lawful and sufficient to serve the de
.\ppuiw-u.

"““""'

feudant with a process and copy of the aﬂidavit, as in cases of bail

pending the action, and at the term to which the said process is re
turnable, the plaintifff shall ﬁle his declaration, and the subsequent
proceedings shall be as in other cases ; and whenever such process,
with a copy of the affidavit annexed, and a copy or copies of such
process and aﬁidavit, shall be'placed in the hands of the Sheriff of
said Court, it shall be the duty of said Sheriff to arrest the defendant
or defendants, to serve him, her or them with a copy or copies of said
process and aﬂidavit, and to deal with him, her, or them, as is now
required by the Paws of_force in this State, regulating cases where bail
is required.
clerk may
40. In the absence of the Judge of said Court by indisposition or
xjedlurliilld otherwise, it shall be the duty of the Clerk or Sheriﬂ' of said Court
to open and adjourn the same from day to day, as circumstances may
require.

All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act are hereby
repealed.
An Act to give jurisdiction to the Court of Common Pleas of Augus
ta, of certain cases of insolvent debtors, and to alter sessions qfsaid
Court _—Approved Dec. 24, 1832. Pam.
Oorlcurrgntl

41. The Judge of the Court of Common Pleas of the City of Au

lL'iiii(i~iii‘|;i):r;giista, shall have concurrent jurisdiction, with the Judges of the Sn
;',',"c;'n‘,’;?,‘:" perior Courts and Justices of the Inferior Court, in all cases where any
debtor shall be arrested and committed to jail in Richmond County,
under mesne process, or under execution from any of the Courts of
this State; and when any application shall be made by any such
debtor to the Judge of the Court of Common Pleas, for the beneﬁt of
the insolvent laws, the same proceedings shall be had in said Court
of Common Pleas, as is now required by law, when such application
is made to the Judges of the Superior Courts or Justices of the Infe
rior Court.

om,,m,m.._

II. [Court Terms, superseded.]

All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act, be and the

same are hereby repealed.
Court Fees-(.‘ity Council.

An Act to amend the several Acts in relalion to the Court of Common
Pleas of Augmta.—Approved Dec. 22, 1834. Pam. 92.
42. From and after the passing of this Act the following fees shall CW" rm
be collected by the Clerk of said Court, of the persons and in the
manner that may be pointed out by rule or order of said Court, and
shall be taxed in the bill of costs in the cases in which they are paid,
viz: On all suits brought in said Court where plaintifff ’s demand
shall not exceed one hundred dollars, the sum of two dollars shall be

taxed; on all suits where the plaintifff ’s demand shall exceed one hun
dred and not exceed two hundred dollars, the sum of three dollars

shall be taxed; and on all suits where the plaintifff's demand shall
exceed two hundred dollars, the sum of four dollars shall be taxed ;*
and on each claim case, on each traverse of an answer to a summons

in garnishment, on each appeal cause and on each suggestion of fraud,
(where any debtor shall apply for the beneﬁt of the insolvent laws,)
the sum of three dollars shall be taxed ; which fees shall be paid by
the Clerk to the Judge of said Court,T (as the compensation of the For iii;
Judge for the discharge of the duties of his oﬂice,) at such time or :>§li§:rioir.°m'
times as said Court may, by rule or order direct; and on failure to
pay the same, the Clerk may be attached as for a contempt, and the
same may be recovered in an action upon the bond given by the
Clerk against him and his securities.
43. Sec. II. Said Court shall have jurisdiction in all cases in Gw\iBl1m"
garnishment, as well when the debt of the garnishee to the defendant
shall emeed, as when it shall fall short of the sum of three hundred
' dollars.I
‘
44. Sec. III. All laws of force in the Superior Courts of this Drbcnets“

andducel
State, in relation to the taking of evidence by mterrogatones under tecum.
commission or de bene esse, and in relation to subpoenas duces tee-um,
shall be of force in the Court of Common Pleas of Augusta.

An Act to amend the Act incorporating the City of Augusta, and the
several Acts amendalor'_1/ thereo/I——Approved Dec. 24, 1835.
Pam. 30.
45. Sec. IV.

From and after the passing of this Act, when any City Coudcil

person shall be summoned and shall appear before the City Council {,';‘:.’;.‘3,';.;§.,,
to answer for a violation of the City ordinances, and upon an inves- §,‘[fP‘.‘;‘,';‘,‘,’,m_
tigation of the charge, it shall appear to the City Council that such
individual has committed an offense punishable by the laws of this
State, it shall be the duty of the City Council to bind over him or
her, with good and sufficient security, to appear at the next term of
the Superior Court of Richmond County, to answer for such offense,
and in case such offender shall refuse or be unable to give security,
the City Council may commit him or her to jail or discharge him or
‘But see sec. 59.
+But see sec 62.
1See “ Attachment and Gamishmeut." sec. 27. See also see. 65 of this title.
Distress—MorI:gages—Sulary of Judge.

her on his or her own recognizance, at the discretion of the said City
Council.
"wl¢iﬂSec. V. When any vacancy shall hereafter happen in the oﬂice
of the Clerk‘ or Sheriff of the Court of Common Pleas of Augusta,
by death, resignation, or otherwise, the City Council shall proceed to
ﬁll such vacancy as soon as practicable; and until the same is ﬁlled,
II-mhahmy the Marshal of the City shall be competent and it shall be his duty to
h’tl'
:"i“.:..~“. serve any process issued from or returnable to said Court, dnectcd to

the Sheriff of said City.
An Act to amend the several Acts in relation to the City of Augusta, and

the C0‘ll'I’( tfcommon Pleas of said City.--Approved Dec. 30, 1836.
Pam. 116.
[The ﬁrst and second sectidus relate to the City Council of Au
gusta] '
Jurisdiction 46. Sec. III. From and after the ﬁrst day of January next, the
‘“‘° "°“"' Court of Common Pleas of said City, shall have jurisdiction of all
cases where the defendants reside in said City, in which the debt,
(exclusive of interest,)or damages claimed, shall be above the juris
diction of a Justice’s Court, and shall not exceed the sum of ﬁve
hundred dollars; and of all claim causes, where personal property
is levied on under executions from said Court.
::rrlm_oor

ﬂare».

The Judge of said Court, or the Mayor, or

any member of the Council of said City, shall be authorized to is
sue warrants directed to the Sheriff of said City, authorizing him to
distrain for rent in arrear: Provided, the sum claimed be within
the jurisdiction of said Court, and all subsequent proceedings shall
be the same in said Court, as if the said warrants had been issued

by a Judge of the Superior or Justices of the Inferior Court.
Oourttorms.

48. Sec. V.

The sessions of said Court shall, after the ﬁrst of

January next, be quarterly; namely, on the second Monday of Feb
ruary, May, August, and November, in each year, and that in all
Jqldgmongby cases where the defendants shall fail to plead, judgment may be en

"“““'

tered by the Court at the ﬁrst term upon proof of the plaintifff’s claim

or demand, but the defendant shall be allowed an appeal from such
judgment within the time, and in the manner now prescribed by
law.1'
Fhreolnsuro
49. Sec.‘ VI. All mortgages upon personal property, for an
°'“'°"““"”” amount within the jurisdiction of said Court, may be foreclosed in
the said Court, in the same way and manner as in the Superior or
Inferior Court, and all subsequent proceedings thereon, shall be in
said Court, and such as are prescribed by the law now of force.
gag:-£0: 50. Sec. VII. In all cases of the return of any distress warrant
utdofunf or mortgage execution, to said Court, for further proceedings, the

same fee shall be paid by the plaintifff, as in other cases of like
amount.
‘But see Act of 1840, see. 67.

1'Rcpealcd, as to terms of Court, Act of‘ 1842, see. 58.
sec. 63.

Asto judgment at ﬁrst term,
Judgmeiit——Garnishment.

51. Sac. VIII.

All suits in said Court shall be commenced at Commence;

least ten days before the time to which they are returnable, and :|nr:d“BP°l"'V:l>uO“
the process shall be served on the defendants at least eight* days °‘ ‘’“'°‘’'‘
before the session of said Court.
52. Sec. IX. From and after the ﬁrst day of January next, the Jud:-M
said City Council shall pay to the Judge of the Court of Com- mu,‘
mou Pleas, a salary, annually of one thousand dollars, in payments
of two hundred and ﬁfty dollars each, immediately after each of the
sessions of the said Court, limited and appointed in this Act, and that

the Clerk of said Court shall pay over to the said City Council im
mediately after each session, all fees which the Judge of said Court
is now allowed by law.

[The three remaining sections relate to the City Council.]
An Act to alter and amend the seireral Acts, in relation to the City of
Augusta, and the Court of Common Pleas in said City.—Assent
ed to Dec. 22, 1837. Pam. 58.
53. See. I. Beit enacted, That from and after the passage of No .Mm't
this Act, so much of the Act passed on the 30th of December, 1836, " shun"
as authorized judgment to be rendered at the ﬁrst term of said Court,
in cases in which no plea is ﬁled, be, and the same is hereby repealed.
54. Sec. II. In all cases hereafter brought in said Court, the 11:39
process shall be served on the defendant, at least nine days before .r.',...'...
the term to which the cases are returnable, and that all attachments ﬁ?.‘;'.‘;..,.....
issued, returnable to said Court, shall be issued, levied and the pro- ""‘°‘“""

coedings advertised, the same length of time before the session of
said Court, to which they may be returnable.
55. SEC. III. All laws now in force, regulating the issuing, ser- °"“l"“"
vice, return and subsequent proceedings, on summons of garnish
ments, in the Superior and Inferior Courts, shall be of force in said

Court, and that all summons of garnishment issued under process in,
or from said Court~ served out of the City of Augusta, shall be served
at least twenty days before the session of the Superior or Inferior
Court of said County where the garnishee resides, and to either of
Which Courts it shall be lawful to make the summons returnable.

An Act to amend the Rent Laws of this Slate, so far as rclales to the .
City of Augusta ,- to t-oryirm the purchase of the Bridges across the
S(ll‘ll7l7l!|/l River, at Augusta, by the City Council of Augusta, and
to legalize the sari issued in Imymcnt for the same ; to cmy‘irm to the

said City CUE7I.C‘lfZ.'CT‘Z(Ii1L177'ilJi[t‘g(:8 relative to said Bridges; further
to de_’/inc the qualifications and disabilities of members of said City
Council; to &hurtg/: the limcs rfho/ding the summer and _/all sessions
of the Zourto/' Common Pleas Q/' the City of Augusta; to authorize
the Clerk of the City Council of Augusta, in certain cases, to act as
Clerk of the mid Court of Common Pleas; and to csccmpt the Mayor
‘But see sec. 64.
Oﬂicers—Vucancy of Ck rk—Sessions of Court—Court fees.

and members Q/‘the City Council of Augusta, and the members of the
Augusta I/zdcpcmlcnt Fire Com1mn_1/. from the ];c1_'forma1rce of certain
duties the-rein speciﬁed ; (1-Il(]_/IITO/IICTJIIITIIOSCS in said Act contaimd.
Assented to 23d Dec. 1840. Pam. 163.
Memhgr 0!
56. SEC. VI. And be it further enacted, That no member of the
i.:.‘:'i':'.iiii.:} City Council of Augusta shall hold any oﬁice, appointment or con

"‘“’° C"‘“"' tract under said City Council, (whereby he may derive any proﬁt or
emolument from said City Council,) or the ofﬁce of Judge, Clerk or
Sheriff of the Court of Common Pleas; nor shall any person hold
ing or interested in any such ofﬁce, appointment or contract, he eli~
gible as amembcr of the City Council, after the ﬁrst Monday in
April next.
Snc. VII. [Changing time of holding Courts; repealed by Act of
1841, as to fall term, and ﬁnally and fully repealed by Act of 1842.]
Vacancy of
57. Sec. VIII. In case of avacancy occurring in the oﬁice of Clerk
0"‘
of the Court of Common Pleas of said City, the Clerk of the City
Council shall sign and issue any process, as Clerk of said Court, un
til such vacancy is ﬁlled in the manner prescribed by law.

[The remaining sections of this Act local.]
An Act to amend an Act, QT. and to amend the several laws regulat
ing the Court of Common Pleas, in the City of Augusta, and to
change the time of holding the Court of Common Pleas of the
City of Augusta.—-Asscntcd to 27th Dec. 1842. Pam. 68.

Sessions of

SEC. I. [Relative to City Court SaVannah.]
58. Sec. II. The session of the Court of Common Pleas of the

f\'l,I:,,”:,‘,’1'_"°'City of Augusta, shall hereafter be held on the fourth Mondays of
February, May, August and November in each year, instead of the
tunes now ﬁxed by law.
Court rm
59. SEC. III. The tax or Court fee in cases hereafter brought in

“",":""°°' said Court of Common Pleas of Augusta, shall be after the follow
ing rate, namely: in all cases when the sum claimed does not ex
ceed one hundred dollars, one dollar; when the sum claimed exceeds
umiernoo, one hundred dollars, and does not exceed two hundred dollars, two
ﬁ§,,.;m, dollars; when the sutn exceeds two hundred dollars, and does not

ﬁoir ‘$50’ exceed three hundred and ﬁfty dollars, three dollars; when the sum
to _
exceeds three hundred and ﬁfty dollars, four dollars; which tax or
ulrunoe. fee shall be paid to the Clerk of said Court, before he shall be bound
to issue any process.
Sec. IV. All laws and parts of laws militating against this
Act, shall be, and the same are hereby repealed.
Analysis—Styl<.~—Jurisdiction.
1. Sec. 1. There shall be organized in the City of Savannah, on gun oh!»
the last Monday in October next, a Court of record to be styled the mm‘
Court of Common Pleas and Oyer and Termincr for the City of Sa
vannah, which said Court shall have cognizance of civil cases, lHC_iviljurin
assumpsit, debt, covenant, trover, and of actions on the case when §;;;‘.‘:.“,‘;,‘.':‘
the damages or cause of action shall not exceed the sum of two hun
dred,'|' nor shall be less than thirty dollars, and the said Court shall
have criminal jurisdiction of all minor offenses committed within the Criminal '

limits of the City of Savannah, and which do not subject oﬁ’c11ders5“"““°“““'
to conﬁnement in the Penitentiary.
2. Sec. II. The Judge of said Court shall be elected by the Le- Elcctionof

gislature immediately after the passing oi this Act, and shall hold J“"‘°‘
‘Acts authorizing discoveries at Common Law, extended to this Court.

11. " Jurisdiction Superior and Inﬁerior Courts,” sec. 59.
1-Extended to $300. See Act of 1841, see. 52.

78

See Art.
his office for the term of three years, unless removed therefrom by
the Governor, on the address of two-thirds of both houses of the
General Assembly for that purpose, and the said Judge shall have
power and authority to hear and determine all civil causes of which
the said Court has jurisdiction, and to give judgment and award
lt_mvaJuf! execution

thereon: Provided always, that either party in any

:11’ my“ such cause shall be entitled to a trial by Jury upon entering a
demand therefore in writing on the docket of the said Court before
the opening of the Court on the ﬁrst day of the term to which the said
cause is returnable, [and upon giving security for the payment of the
eventual condemnation money and costs, as upon the entry of ap
peals under the Judicial Statute of this State.]"‘
mvwumlzl 3. Sec. III. The said Court is empowered to compel the pro
iion M900!-duction of books, papers and writings, in the possession of any party

‘M WNW‘ to a suit in said Court, containing evidence pertinent to the cause in
question, conformably to the Vlth section of the Judicial Statute of
this State.
gmngailﬂ
4. Sec. IV. The process in civil suits in said Court shall be
conformable to the Vlllth section of the Judicial Statute of this
State, excepting that the process to all suits in said Court, shall be
annexed by the Clerk of the Court, and served by the Sheriff of the

;;“d’:';:‘Y same, tenf days before the return thereof; and for conducting pro
Nfm cmmceedings in said Court, the provisions contained in the IXth section
of the Judicial Statute shall be in force to carry to trial any suit in
said Court, according to the mode prescribed in the second section of
this Act.
Answer.
5. Sec. V. VVhen any defendant shall have been served with pro
cess, he shall ﬁle his answer in writing in the terms of the Judicial Stat
ute, on or before the opening of the Court at the term to which

:\:;I‘rur:i"I by the same is returnable; if the defendant shall fail to ﬁle his answer
'
in manner aforesaid, the Judge of the said Court shall note the de
fault on the docket, and shall in such case, and in all cases which are

3 bggied not docketed for trial byaJury in terms of the proviso of the ﬁrst
mi-m.
section of this Act, proceed to give judgment and award execution
thereon at the same term, upon due proof of the plaintifff ’s claim; but

igalvgdlfzergh in all cases Which are so docketed, an irnparlancc shall be allowed
until the next succeeding term.i
6. Sec. VI. In all cases in said Court in which bail is required,
that the bail and proceedings thereon shall be conformable to the
laws of this State, or to such Statutes upon the same subject, as may
be hereafter enacted by the General Assembly§
Wltnm
7. Sec. VII. The XIXth, XXth, XXIst, and XXIId sections of
the Judicial Statute" of this State, shall be in force in the said Court
excepting that writs of subpoena shall be issued by the Clerk of
said Court, and served by the Sheriff of the same, a City Consta
lntenonlw blc, or some private person ; and that the provisions of the Act
W‘
passed the 16th December, 1811, to alter and amend the XXIIId
mu.

‘The clause in brackets repealed by Act of 1841, see. 55.
36.
-|>But sec sec. 54.
§See sees. 41 and 42.

See also Act of 1834, see.

ﬂint see Act of 1843. see. 68.
[For these secs. see "Evidence," sees. 31 to 34.
section of the Judiciary Law of this State, passed the 16th of Feb
ruary,-1799, shall likewise be of full force in said Court, excepting
that it shall not be necessary to give more than three days’ notice 'I'hmodlyl'
of an intention to take testimony by commission, which commis- “°"°°'
sion it shall be the duty of the Clerk of said Court to issue upon
application therefore.
E 8. Sse. VIII. The XX.IVth, XXVth, XXVIIIth. XXIXth, sm_¢i¢_r.

xxxtii, XXXIst, and XXXIId sections of the Judicial Statute 0r~“;§;':_"”"
this State,"" shall be in full force in said Court, excepting that all E',‘,','§,‘|',i,‘,',_“"'
claims to property made under the provisions of the XXXIId sec
tion aforementioned, shall be returned by the Sheriff of the Court to Bmuglnn
the Clerk of the Superior Court of Chatham County, in ten days iiiigliiiiiiinlv

after the institution of such claim, to be decided upon by aJury at
the ensuing term of the Superior Court of said County.
9. Sec. IX. No confession of Judgment shall be entered up Cn'tmio_I

In said Court, unless the defendant resides in the City of Szi.vz1n-"“"""""M
nah, and unless the cause has been regularly sued out and docketed,
nor until such cause is called in order by the Court for trial.
\ It). See. X. All sales of property taken under execution by the 8h'ﬂ’I ww
Sheritfs of said Court, shall be made couformably to the laws of the
State regulating Sheriff ’s sales.
11, Sec. XI.

In all cases in which averdict shall be rendered in _I"1‘IatrIi'>f"}

said Court, the party in whose favor it may be, shall be allowed to 5 t'l:‘,n|l'lIn4\:

enter and sign judgment thereon, at any time within three days af- '°"“°"
ter the adjournment of the Court, at the Clerk’s office, for the amount
of such verdict and all legal costs, and no execution shall issue on
such verdict until such judgment shall be entered by the party or his
attorney.
12. See. XII. The Clerk and Sheriff hitherto of the Mayor’s Clml M
Court of Savannah, shall be the Clerk and Shériﬂ‘ of the Court cre- sum“
ated by this Act, but such Clerk and Sheriff shall continue to per—
form all the duties required of them by the Ordinances of the Mayor
and Aldennen of the City of Savannah, and the said Clerk and
Sheriff are hereby declared to be entitled to the same fees as are by
law allowed to the Clerks and Sheriffs of the Superior and Inferior Fw
Courts of this State.‘|'
13. Sec. XIII. The Recorder of the City of Savannah shall, Thohw»
In the event of the absence of the Solicitor General of the District, iL"iiiZ 13$.‘
prosecute all delinquents for crimes and offenses cognizable by said
M‘
Court, and the said Recorder, in all criminal prosecutions conducted

by him, shall be entitled to receive the same fees as by law are al-"'‘' '°°"
lowed to the Solicitors General of the State, reserving to the Solicitor
General of the district the right to conduct such prosecutions, and to
receive the same fees asallowed by law in the Superior Courts of
this State.
14. Sec. XIV. The Clerk of said Court shall copy into a book The clerk
of record to be provided by the Mayor and Aldermen of Savannah, 2ZiiI?I4'
all the proceedings in all the civil cases in said Court, which entry "'““"°‘
‘For these sections look under their appropriate heads in " Judiciary."
Act In full in “Appendix?
1But see sees. 66 and 61.

See also the
Shcriff—Juries-—Drawing Juries.

of record shall be made within twenty days after the determination
PM of
of any cause, and the Clerk shall be allowed ten cents for every
M°mm" hundred words of recording such proceedings, to be taxed in the bill
of cost; and the said Clerk shall keep from day to day, regular min
utes of the proceedings of said Court, which shall be signed by the
Judge.
01m; and _
15. Sec. XV. All the duties and liabilities attached to the
S232?’-ili"Clerks of the Superior and Inferior Courts, and to the Sheriffs of

{,‘_;‘,:;‘,:T,°‘“‘° the Counties, are hereby attached to the Clerk and Sheriff of this
°uf':,"s§:}r°§:fCoiirt, and the Judge of said Court is empowered to exercise the
same authority over the Clerk and Sheriff, as is legally exercised by
the Judges of the Superior Courts over the Clerks of the Superior
- Courts and over the Sheriffs of the Counties.

Juries,
16. Sec. XVI. All persons residing in the City of Savunnah,
lit-:1-'_""1°‘°ai1d who are liable to serve as Jurors in the Superior Court, shall be
liable to serve as Jurors in this Court ; and it is hereby declared to
be the duty of the said Court to conform to the laws in force in this
State, pointing out the mode of selecting, drawing and summoning
n°f"""!- Jurors for the Superior Court; and the XLIVth section of the Judi
cial Statute is hereby declared to be in full force in said Court; and
Jur°"’wh- the oath to be administered to all Juries in said Court upon the trial
of civil causes, shall be the same as is by law administered to the
Petit Jurors in the Superior Courts.
fmwins
17. Sec. XVII. The Judge of the said Court shall, previous to
“Mi.
the adjournment of either of the terms of the same, draw, conforma

bly to the laws of this State, twenty-four persons to serve as an in
§fe':iIl\r}u-gfry- quest or Grand Jury for the said Court and City, and twenty-four
' persons for the trial of all ClVll and criminal cases of which the said
Court has jurisdiction, but no inquest or Grand Jury for the said Court
CrIqninn_l shall consist of less than eighteen persons; though twelve persons ‘of

P'°u"°d'w' any grand Jury may ﬁnd a bill or make a presentment; and it is
hereby declared, that the mode of proceeding and trial in all criminal
cases in said Court, shall be the same as is pursued in the Superior
Courts in this State ; and that the oath to be administered to Jurors
and witnesses upon the trial of criminal cases, shall be the same as
is administered to Jurors and witnesses in criminal cases in the Su
perior Courts.
‘<>__|:t&n:£pc 18._ Sue. XVIII. The Clerk and Sheriff of the Court created
Ehuiﬂi
by this Act, shall respectively take the oath required by the Judicial
Statute of this State, to be taken by the Clerks of the Superior and
Inferior Courts, and by the Sheriﬁ's of the Counties, excepting that
in the Clerk ’s oath, the following words shall be substituted, (after
the words “ and other proceedings,”)—“ of the Court of Common
Pleas and of Oyer and rI‘erminer for the City of Savannah,” and_ in the

Sherifl”s oath the same style of the Court shall be inserted after the
words “ as Sheriff,” and the said oaths the Judge of the said
Court or the Mayor of the City of Savannah, is hereby empowered to
administer.
Judgds Salary-—Attorncy’s Fees—Certiorari—Records.

19. Sec. XX,

The salary to be allowed the Judge of the said Judge’:

Court shall be thirteen hundrod* dollars, to be paid quarterly by the "M"
Treasurer of the City of Savannah, out of the funds of the corpora
tion of said City ; ‘and the said Judge before he enters upon the du
ties of his oﬂice, shall take the following oath or aiﬁrmation, either
before the Governor or before commissioners by him for that purpose
appointed, to wit : “ I do solemnly swear, or affirm, that I will ad- ‘“'°*"'-'
minister justice without respect to persons, and do equal right to the
poor and to the rich, and that I will faithfully and impartially discharge .
andperform the duties incumbent upon me as Judge of the Court of
Common Pleias and of Oyer and Terminer for the City of Savannah,
according to the best of my abilities and understanding, and agreea
blyto the constitution of this State and the constitution of the Uni

ted States—so help me God.”
20. Sec.
XXI.
The of
attorney’s
feelaw
in each
causeupon
brought
said Q;";::°)"'
Court,
shall be
one halfT
the fee by
allowed
casesincomI I
mcnccd and tried in the Superior Courts, and upon all cases brought C"! ““ ‘*
in the said Court, there shall be assessed the sum of three dollars, to
be paid upon the institution of the same, to the Clerk of the Court,
who shall make quarterly returns of the fees so received by him, and
pay over the amount to the Treasurer of the City of Savannah, under
the penalty of ﬁve hundred dollars, to be enforced by attachment
against the Clerk as for a contempt.
21. Sec. XXII. When either party to a cause in said Court ‘<'°"i°""'
shall take exceptions to any proceedings in a suit affecting the real
merits of the same, it shall be the duty of the said Judge, to cause

to be made and ﬁled of record in said Court, a just and true state
ment of the facts relating thereto, and of all legal points arising there
in, and the said party, after a full compliance with the law of the
State, regulating the granting of certiorari, may apply to the Judge
of the Eastern district for a writ of certiorari, who shall issue the
same if he shall deem the exceptions taken to be sufficient.
Sec. XXIII. . All suits and other processes which have been
'""’°°“"
. 22.
.
_
to
proceed in
instituted or ordered in the Mayor’s Court of Savannah, and which BMW
shall remain undecided, and unexecuted on the last Monday in ()c- lii:ll;il‘i'rli‘

tober next, shall be transferred to the Court created by this Act ; and ‘“’y"" " "
it shall be the duty of the Court to proceed to the determination and
trial of all such suits, conformably to the provisions of this Act ; and

the records of the said Mayor’s Court are hereby declared to be a §,°e°‘;,",';,,°,l,
part of the records of the Court created by this Act ; and the Clerk ‘~‘"'"'
of this Court shall, upon motion ﬁrst made to the Court for that
purpose, issue execution upon all judgments which have been or
may be obtained in the said Mayor’s Court.
An Act to repeal the nineteenth sectzon of an Art, entitled “ an Act
for the organization of a Court of Common Pleas and Oyer and
Terminer for the City of Savannah ; aml_/br repealing the civil
jurisdiction given by the laws Q/‘this State to the Mayor and Al
'Reduccd ﬁrst to $1000, sec. 85, and now to $500, sec. 49.
ﬂncreased ﬁfty cents, sec. 59.
Tc-rms—Constables—Stay of Execution.

dermcn, or to the Mayor of said City ;” to prescribe the trrrna
at which the snid Court shall hereafter be held ,' and to compel the
attendance at said terms ofthe Constables drawn by the Illa-yrrr and
Aldermert ofsaid Cit_r/.——Approve_d Nov. 30, 1821. Vol. IV. 205.

‘D-19L“-MIlhcmdled

23. See. I.
.
The nineteenth section of the said Act for the or

A-ctropuled ganization of a bourt of Common Pleas and of Oyer and Ternnner
for the City of Savannah, be, and the same is hereby repealed ,' and
that there shall be hereafter the following terms of the said Court in
Tarmac! each year, to wit : on the third Monday in October, on the second
"~‘c.’:..“ii',',r‘h° Monday in December, on the fourth Monday in January, on the sec

2’.‘_“,',,‘,':,°,,“’ond Monday in March, on the fourth Monday in April, on the second
:"\'"T 5* Monday in June, on the second Monday in July"" and that all suits,
mruh.
writs, and processes which have been instituted heretofore, and made
returnable to the terms of the Court as they have been heretofore
held, and which after the passing of this Act shall remain undecided
and unexecuted, shall be acted upon at the terms of the said Court
hereafter to be held according to the provisions of this Act.
met? 24. Sec. II. Such persons as have been, or may hereafter be
ﬁlial“ drawn or chosen by the Mayor and Aldermen of the City of Savan
lltond nu nah as Constables for said City, shall be compelled to attend the
§::',‘L°"“i“ terms of said Court, to execute the orders and processes of said Court;

and on failure of such attendance, after having been required to do
so by the Sheriff of the said Court, that the Judge of said Court is
hereby authorized and empowered to proceed against any dcfaulter
by an attachment for contempt.

An Art to authorize the Stay of Ero¢-nlioiis to be issued on Judgment:
obtained in the Court of Common Pleas and O_i/or and T¢1'mi1ier
_/br the Cit-_i/of Savannah, by Dr;/endanls, on entering St-mrity
and Payment of Costs, for sixty r1(1._1/s.—Approved Dec. 19, 1822.

Vol. IV. 210.
an; bf0!e25.

From and after the passing of this Act, it shall and may be

';3‘.‘,-’1'.;"i;, lawful for defendant or defendants, against whom judgments iii-.".y be

"""‘“""
of Common obtained and entered in the Court of Coniinc-ii Pleas, and Oyer and
‘'*"'""| Terminer for the City of Savannah, upon the payment of the costs
Oyﬂ and
gtzrtvx-l\;‘i=::’_ of said judgments, and entering into good and sufﬁcieiit security be
Orslvlhlluh fore the Clerk of said Court, within four days after, the rendition and
§;’i':|'§,‘I§°,c_ entering of the judgment aforesaid, for the payment of the jLlil.f_'lil()l’lt,
°‘"“Y ‘“'”"- interest, and all future costs to accrue thereon, shall be eiitithzd to a
stay of execution or executions for sizrty days; and if such piiity or
parties shall not pay the same agreable thereto, then and in siich case
execution may issue against him or them, and their security or securi
ties, witheut any other proceedings thereon.
Sec. II. All laws or parts of laws mllililllllg against this Act
are hereby repealed.
‘Terms changed, see sec. 62 and 67.
Special Courts for Seamen.

An Act to authorize the Judge of the Court of Common Pleas and
Oyer and Terminer for theCHy of Savannah to hold special or
er/raordinary Courtsfor the summary trial of causes therein enu
mcrated, and to empower the Jllayor 0] the City ofSavannah, also
to hold such special or extraordinary Courts, and to regulate Sea
men. or Zllarincrs, and to pn-vent themfrom being harbored or run
ning in debt.‘—Approved Dec. 26. 1831. Pam. 96.
Whereas, masters and commanders of vessels, trading to the City
of Savannah, are often greatly distressed by the neglect or deser
tion of their seamen, which is in general occasioned by the practices
of keepers of taverns and tippliug houses, and ill-disposed persons, to

the great detriment and hindrance of the trade of said City: And
whereas, the provincial Act of 1766,1' is found to be inoperative for

the want of a Court of summary jurisdiction ; for remedy whereof,

26. See. I.

Be it enacted, (Y0.

ONO
That from and after the passing Fpodnl
forum of

of this Act, it shall and may be lawful for the Judge of the Court of seamen.
Common Pleas and Oyer and'I‘ermincr for the City of Savannah and
also for the Mayor of the City of Savannah, upon the petition made
to either of them by any ship master, supercargo,owner or consignee
of any vessel, or any articled seamen, who shall have any dispute or
dilference with any person touching any contract, agreement, sale,
promise, debt or demand whatsoever, or shall be charged with any
assault or assault and battery, or trespass to the person, not punish
able with dcath or imprisonment in the Penitentiary, setting forth
[in] such petition the nature of his, her or their case, and at the same

time making oath that he, she or they cannot, without great incon
venience and damage to him, her, or them wait the determination of
such matter in ditference, or the trial of such charge, by the ordinary
and usual course of proceeding in the Courts of this State; to order,
and the said Judge or the said Mayor, is hereby required and directed
to order and appoint a special or extraordinary Court, to be held
within forty-eight hours after the grant of such order for the trial of
any such cause, matter in difference, charge or trespass.
27. See. ll. At the time and place which the said Judge or0nIQboun'
Mayor shall appoint, the parties being duly notiﬁed by twelve hours’ i'ﬁ§:'.-iii.'i“|
previous notice of such time and place, shall attend personally, or by ::{§;f§}'ff,_

attorney, before the said Judge or Mayor, and the said Judge or May
or, shall then hear the parties, and shall in a summary manner pro
ceed to judge and determine such cause, and shall forthwith by the
usual process of ‘said Court, execute the judgment of said Court in
such cause, unless exceptions to such judgment shall be taken by Empiiou
either party on the pronouncing said judgment—-and if either party
shall so except to any such judgment, it shall be his duty forthwith
to apply to the Ju ire of the Superior Court of the Eastern district for
.11 certiorari founded on such exception, which if allowed by the
‘This Act arm-ii:le'l by Act of 1837, see. 50, and 18-17, sec. 64-.
fFo; provincial Act of 75 5, and Act of 18l3, deﬁning the offense of abducting and
harboring seamen, ate ado “Agriculture and Commerce," Article “ Seaman and
lhrincrs."
Judge of said district within twenty-four hours after the rendition of

ISZQ‘,',‘,,”L',{',ZZ,_ such judgment, shall be a supcrscdeas thereof-—and in case of the
“d°“*absence of the Judge of said district, then time shall be allowed to
the party making such exception, until the return of the said Judge,
am and the said party giving good bond and security to the other party in
the sum of $200, conditioned to abide the ﬁnal decision of the

cause.
-ram to
28. Sec. III. The said Judge or Mayor shall at such special or
'’"*’“‘y' extraordinary Courts, have full power to try each cause in which
captains or commanders of vessels, or articled seamen are concerned

Cqrrriﬂn of as parties, in the most summary and speedy manner, and to compel
wuuma the attendance of witnesses by the most summary process that can
be devised, and that no more delays shall occur in the trial of such
causes than such as are indispensable to the due administration of
justice.
tn-m-.;n not 29. Sec. IV. And for the purpose of avoiding vexatious arrests
,?‘,I,‘,",’,,’.‘f,‘};'“ and fraudulent detention, of articled seamen, be it further enacted,

W'IMthat it shall not be lawful for any keeper of a tavern or tippling
house, or any other person, when an articled seaman shall have been
committed to jail by his captain, owner or consignee, to lodge a de
tainer under the pretense of civil process founded on a debt—but

that in such case, when an articled scaman [or seamen] shall have
beerrcommitted to jail by any captain, owner or consignee of a vessel,
it shall be the duty of the jailer to surrender such seaman upon the
requisition of such captain, owner or consignee so committing him,
notwithstanding any detainer which may or shall have been lodged
against such seaman founded on civil process.
lumen M

30. Sec. V.

It shall not be lawful for any Sheriff, Constable or

:,’,‘,’,"j,‘:,".‘~‘,'§"" other officer,-to arrest any articled seaman on civil process within
,'3*l*"‘°‘i'-twerlty-four hours next immediately before the time which shall
'
have been designated by advertisement for the sailing of such vessel,
or after the lapse of such time, if such vessel shall have been detained

beyond that time by adverse winds or other causes—and in case of
any such arrest within such time, the said Judge or Mayor shall
have full power and authority to discharge such seaman instantly on
the application of the captain, owner, or consignee, showing that such
arrest was made after the time in this section prohibited, and further,
that the oﬂicer making such arrest shall be punishable by indictment

in the said Court, and on conviction, shall be sentenced by the said
Court to a ﬁne not exceeding $100.
M "r 17m
31. Sec. VI. The Provincial Act of Assembly, entitled “ an Act
“‘““‘ “’'°‘’ to punish seamen or mariners neglecting or descrting their duty on
board their respective ships or vessels, and for preventing seamen
and mariners from being harbored or running in debt,” passed 6th
March, 1766, shall be, and is hereby declared to be, in full force, and
M,,o,,.,,m, that the said Judge or the said Mayor shall in the summary manner

P°“,,°c"e,"or aforesaid, exercise all the powers, jurisdiction and authority by that
°° ‘hem Act vested in Justices of the Peace, and that the said Judge or May
lu.
or shall be and hereby is fully empowered to carry into effect the
provisions of that Act as fully and to all intents and purposes, as
Ofﬁcers must attend——Juries for Special Courts.

Justices of the Peace could have done immediately after the passage
of said Acts.
If any articled seaman shall after the passage of Amm of

this Act, be arrested undcr civil or criminal process, issued by any §'§,’§,,"','§'i§f.l’;

Justice of the Peace or Justice of the Inferior Court, the captain, §'[I§‘,‘,,“{',,
owner or consignee of the vessel, to which such seaman shall be “"'°'
under articles at the time of such arrest, shall be entitled to apply to
the said Judge or Mayor for a summary hearing and determination
of such cause of arrest in the manner in the ﬁrst and second sections
in this Act prescribed, and the said Judge or Mayor shall have full
power and authority to take jurisdiction and cognisance of such
cause, and ﬁnally to decide the same ; and it shall be the duty of
the officer making such arrest, and of the Justice from whom the

process emanated, on the requisition of the said Judge or Mayor, to
transmit to the said Judge or Mayor all documents and papers in re
lation thereto.
33. Sec. VIII. The Sheriff and Clerk of the said Court of Com- 5|,.,i¢...;

mon Pleas, and Oyer and Terrniner for the City of Savannah, shall Z'§'L,‘ZJS
in person or by deputy attend such special or extraordinary Courts, °°‘"'*
and shall be entitled to the same fees that by law they are now enti
tlcd in ordinary cases; and that it shall be the duty of the Clerk of
said Court to require of the plaintiﬂis in such cause the sum of three ‘full
dollars, which shall be paid to him for the use of said City, to be
taxed in the bill of costs against the losing party.

An Act to authorize the Judge of the Court of Common Pleas and
Oyer and Terminer of the City of Savannah, and the hamlets
thereof, to draw Juries for the summary trial of such muses as by
an Act passed on the 26th day of December, 1831, the said Judge
is authorized to hold special or evtraordinary Courts.—Approved
Dec. 21, 1833. Pam. 56.
34. It shall be the duty of the Judge of the Court of Commongl-v!u"eﬁ\»
Pleas and of Oyer and Terminer of the City of Savannah, in all caus- fo?‘épodial“
es for the summary trials of which he has, by an 1 ct passed on the C°“""
26th day of December, 1831, been authorized to hold special and
extraordinary Courts, to draw the necessary Jury or Juries as author
ized by the lﬁth section of the Act of 18th December, 1819, creat
ing said Court, forthwith, or within twenty-four hours after the pe
tition has been made, upon which by said Act the said Judge is re
quired to hold special or extraordinary C01ht8.
Sec. II. All laws or parts of laws\militating against this Act, are

hereby repealed.
es

An Act to amend an Act entitled an Act for the organization of a
Court of Common Pleas and of 0;:/er and Terminer for the City

of Savannah, andfor repealing the civil jurisdiction given by the
laws of this Stale to the Mayor and Alder1nen or to the Illa;/or of

said City, passed December 18th, 1819.—Approved Dec. 19, 1534.
Pam. 91.
sum of

"“"°'

35. From and after the passing of this Act, the salary to be al

lowed the Judge of the Court of Common Pleas and of Oyer and
Terminer for the City of Savannah shall be $l,()()U,* to be paid
quarterly to the said Judge out of the funds of the corporation of
said City.
Sec. II. [Repeals so much of the 19th section of the Act of De
cember 18, 1819, as requires parties to give security to entitle

them to a Jury trial. See also, see. 55.]
All laws or parts of laws militating against this law are hereby re
pealed.

An. Act to amend an Act entitled an Act for the organization of a
Court of Common Pleus,and 0_/'O_t/er and Terminer for the Oil? of
Sat-unnu-/r, and for repealing the civil jurisdiction given by the laws
of this State, to the hlayor and Aldermen, or to the llluyor of said
Cll_1/,]7(lJ8(.'d December 18, 1819 ; and to add to, regulate, increase and

de/inc the civiljurisdiction and powers of will Court, and to regulate
the salary ofthe Judge thereo/l—Assented to 26th December, 1837.
Pam. S3.
.Iurindicti0n
36. Sac. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the ﬁrst day of Jan
ovar all cas
esbﬂween uary next, the Court of Common Pleas and of Oyer and Termmer,

§£0“","‘

for the City of Savannah, shall have jurisdiction of all cases' where

the debt (exclusive of interest,) or damages claimed, shall be above
the Jurisdiction of a Justices’ Court, and shall not exceed the sum
M ,,,.,.,.. of two hundred dollars '; and of all claim cases, where personal prop
;’y‘_P°“'°""*" erty is levied on, under execution from said Court.
Mmm.. , 37. Sec. II. All mortgages upon personal property, for an amount
,',‘I,"°,',“,‘,‘,,',‘,';|_ within the jurisdiction of said Court, may be foreclosed by the Judge
:{u;fn',;f“° of the same (in the same way or manner as in the Superior or In
ferior Courts,) aed all subsequent proceedings thereon, shall be in
said Court, and such as are prescribed by the laws now in force.
sum um
38. Sec. III. All suits in said Court shall be commenced at least ten
mencnrl ten
day, ,,c,,,m days before the time to which they are returnable, and the process

l 0"" ‘"‘llSllZ1ll be served on the defendants, at least eight days before the ses
.
.
days.
sion of said Court.I

servcd oigh

The Judge,

39. Sec. IV.

'I‘he Judge of the said Court, or any Alderman of

any Alder

rnan nrJust- said City, or any Justice of the Peace, shall have full power and
$95,122:, authority to issue attachments which shall be returnable to said
§,':‘e‘:,§:',g‘_°l" Court, and within the jurisdictional amount of the same : Proviclerl,
§g'gl;l‘fry>a0 however, that the said attachments shall be issued at least thirty days
dsysbetore before the term to which they are made returnable, and shall be test
ed in the name of the Judge, Alderman or Justice issuing the same,
. ‘£600, sec. 49.

1But see sec. 54.

T$300, sec. 62.
Buil—.-\ttachment—GarnishmenL

and be signed by said Judge, Alderman or Justice granting the same :
And provided also, that no judgment shall be rendered on such at- Judgmonlid
tachment, until the term next after that to which it is made return- ‘°"“'
able.
,
40. Sec. V. Such attachments shall be directed to the Sl1eriﬂ'A"§j'i:'c':_,

-of said Court, and to all and singular the Constables of the City of Eli
Savannah, and that all prior and subsequent proceedings relative to sumqqml
said attaclnnents, not herein expressly mentioned or speciﬁed, shall pmceodlngl
be governed by the laws of the State of Georgia, in relation to at
tachments, due regard being had to the nature of the different tri
bunals.
41. Sec. VI. Whenever bail shall be required in any case about am.
to be instituted in said Court, it shall be lawful and sufficient to

serve the defendant with a process and copy of the affidavit, as in
cases of bail pending the action, and whenever such process, with a
copy of the affidavit annexed, and a copy or copies of such process
and affidavit shall be placed in the hands of the Sheriff of said
Court, it shall be the duty of said Sheriff to arrest the defendant or Bherlﬂ"l
-defendants, to serve him, her or them, with a copy or copies of said my‘
process and affidavit, and to deal with.hirn, her, or them, as is now

required by the laws of force in this State, regulating cases where
bail is required, and the subsequent proceedings shall be as in other
cases.
42. Sec. VII. In all bail cases issued under the provisions of this Dularatlon
in bail carol
Act, the plaintifff or plaintifffs shall be compelled to ﬁle his, her 0r8,,,'_,,,,
W

their declaration, at least eight* days before the term to which said ‘°'‘’ ‘’°“'‘
process is returnable, and on failure to do so, he, she or they shall
lose a term, and if he, she or they fail to ﬁle his, her or their dec1a- rm: n_n-1|

ration, before the ﬁrst day of the term to which the process is re- ii§i.u:lii.”m'
turnable, the Court shall, on motion, enter judgment of non-suit.

43. Sec. VIII. In all cases of attachments returnable to said Dr-olantlol
Court, it shall and may be lawful for the plaintifff or plaintiffs to ﬁle in au.-iclnu’t.
his, her, or their declaration, at any time before the opening of the
term to which such attachments are returnable, and on failure to do

so by the opening of said term, the Court shall, on motion,
dismiss the attachment.
'
44. Sec. IX. Said Court shall have jurisdiction in all cases in cmisngrc
garnishmeut,T as well when the debt of the garnishee to the defend—

'

ant shall eirceed, as when it shall fall short, of the jurisdictional
amount of said Court, and that said Court shall also have jurisdic-i.m,¢m|,,,

tion of all suits brought on bail or attachment, claim or other obli- ,‘;§’,‘."e',,"‘,-’,',"1‘,',,,_
galions, or bonds given by parties to any proceedings issued from, 5: ﬁ;\.'*g::m
or had in said Court, notwithstanding that the penalty of said bonds
shall or may exceed the jurisdiction of said Court, (in consequence
of having been given in double the sum sworn to, attached, or of
‘the execution issued, or property levied on :) I’rom'dcd, that the Provho._
original cause of action upon which said bonds or other obligations
were had and taken, did not exceed the jurisdiction of said Court.
‘See sec. 54.
1‘See Act of 1822, title “Attachment and Garnishment," sec. 27, Which, by the Vlth
lection, is expressly extended to City Courts.
Olficers partics—Testimony dc bene rssa—Judgrnents—Salnry—Speeia.l Courts.

tmiydgﬁgign
45. Sec. X. The Sheriff and Clerk of said Court may sue and
and can. be sued in said. Court, and when the Clerk of the same shall be de
fendant in any suit or action, it shall be the duty of said Clerk
(if required) to copy the petition upon which said suit is founded,
as in other cases, and annex a process thereto, which shall be signed
Ulho Clerk by the Judge of said Court, and shall be served in the same manner
mPmy' as in other cases, and it shall also be the duty of the Clerk aforesaid,
(if required,)to make out ﬁnal process in any case in which he may
be interested, as in other cases, which shall be signed by the Judge
gggnﬁzzléﬂaforesaid, and executed as in other cases; and when the Sheriff of
ilapany, the Court aforesaid, shall be plaintifff or defendant, in any suit brought

before the Court aforesaid, it shall and may be lawful for the Mar
shal of the City of Savannah, or any one of the City Constables, to
execute all lawful process for or against said Sheriff, and all such
Ind how process shall be directed to.the Marshal of the City of Savannah,
and all and singular the Constables of said City, and the proceed
ings thereon shall be as in other cases.
absence of" 46. Sec. XI. In the absence of the Judge of the said Court by
.li|o§.'r'nJti“ indisposition or otherwise, it shall be the duty of the Clerk, or Sher

§’,,,°,',',{_" '"‘° iff of the same, to open and adjourn said Court, to such day as the
zozijiumrzz

Judge may, in writing, direct.
47. Sec. XII. The Judge of the said Court, shall have power
' to take testimony dc bcnc csse, in all cases pending in the same, ac

cording to the laws of the State of Georgia in force, due regard be
ing had to the nature of the different tribunals.
48. Sec. XIII. All judgments obtained in said Court shall be a
lien on all property belonging to the defendant throughout the State,
£‘°‘““°"- and all executions shall be directed to the Sheriff of the Court of
Common Pleas and Oyer and Terminer for the City of Savannah,
and all and singular the Sheriffs of the State of Georgia, and may be
PIWI»
levied on all property throughout the said State: Provided, that the
Sheriff of said Court shall levy all executions on property within the
limits of the said City.
Hwtm 49. Sec. XIV. From and afterthe expiration of the present term
of office of the Judge of said Court, the salary thereof shall be ﬁxed

Jlaiggngnm

at the sum of six hundred dollars per annum.
Sec. XV. All laws or parts of laws militating against this Act
be and the sa.rne are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend an Act entitled an Act to authorize the Judge of the
Court of Common Pleas and Oyer and Terminer for the City/‘Q1’
Savannah, to hold special or extraordinary Courtsfor the summary
trial of causes therein enumerated, and to empower the Zlfuyor of
the CLl]/ of Savannah also, to hold such special or extraordinary
Courts, and to regulate seamen and mariners, and to prerent them
from being harbored or rumzing in debt.—Assented to Dec. 23,
1837. Pam.77.""
Whereas, no provision is made in the above-recited Act, for cases
*See also, Act of’1847, sec. 64.
Special Courts—Jurisdiction-—Terms.

in which ship-masters, super-cargoes. owners or consighees of ves
sels, or articled seamen may be plaintiffs, or may prosecute for as
sault, or assault and battery, or trespass to the person; and also in
cases of dispute or difference touching contracts, agreements, sale,
promise or debt, where the sum does not exceed thirty dollars.
50. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of B_P¢CiaIsu

this Act, it shall and may be lawful for the Judge of the Court of L'il','.,i>‘j:¢°;°.'.'
I

Common Pleas and Oyer and Terminer for the City of Savannah,
and also for the Mayor of the City of Savannah, upon the petition
made to either of them, by any ship-master, supercargo, owner or
consignee, of any vessel, or any articled seaman, that he, she or
they are plaintifffs, or have charged any person with an assault, or
assault and battery, or trespass to the person, not punishable with
death or imprisonment in the Penitentiary, to hold special or extraor
dinary Courts for the summary trial of such causes, under the same
restrictions, and as provided by the above recited Act, and the Act
amendatory of the same, passed the 21st day of Dec. 1833.
51. Sec. II. All civil actions, which, by the above recited Act, Cam under
the Judge of the Court of Common Pleas and of Oyer and Terminer W‘
fo rthe City of Savannah, or the Mayor of said City, are authorized to
try and determine, the amount of which shall not exceed thirty dol
law, may be tried by any Justice of the Peace, for that part of the
County of Chatham, embraced within the corporate limits of the City
of Savannah, under the same restrictionsas to petition,notice, aﬂida
vit, ‘and [as] set forth in the ﬁrst section of the said recited Act, and that

all and every process issued by any Justice, by authority of this Act
shall be served by any lawful Constable, of the above recited part of
the County of Chatham, and shall be determined by :1 Jury of ﬁve,

to be drawn instanter from the Jury box of said Magistrate, which
said Jury shall be summoned to appear for the trial of said action or 1'"!
actions, within forty-eight hours from the time of issuing the process
or processes; and further, that the costs shall be the same, as in oth- M
er cases of Jury trials, in Magistrate’s Courts.
Sec. III. All laws and parts of laws militating this Act be and

the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to alter and amend the several Acts relating to the Court of
Common, Plcas, and of Oyer and Terminer for the City of Sa
vannah.—Assented to Dec. 7, 1841. Pam. 76.
52. Sue. I.

Be it enacted, That from and after the ﬁrst day of i"'a':;;:°?o

January next, the Court of Common Pleas and of Oyer and Termi— 5800
ner for the City of Savannah, shall have jurisdiction in all civil cases,
(except such as involve title to real estate, or which may fall within
a Magistrate’s jurisdiction) where the sum claimed, or the demands
of the plaintifff should not exceed the sum of three hundred dollars
exclusive of interest, and that the said Court shall have jurisdiction
to the same extent in cases of attachments.
53. Sec. II. From and after the ﬁrst day of January next, the ::',',f,‘1':f,,
-Tury 'l‘rial—Ollicer's I-‘ees—Sessions.

sessions of said Court shall be quarterly, namely, on the ﬁrst Monday
of February, May, August, and November)’
Suits com54. Sec. III. All suits in said Court shall be commenced at least
ii';;,:c§grui4e fourteen days before the time to which they are returnable ; and the

§,“o‘1':;,‘M“§v_process shall be served on the defendants at least twelve days before
°“ 12d4"- the session of the Court: Provided herein, that the provisions of this
section shall not extend to cases of attachment, which shall be issued
in the manner now prescribed by law.
-rm W1“. 55. Sec. IV. Either party in any cause before said Court, shall
3;?’ be entitled to a trial by Jury upon entering a demand therefore in
writing, upon the docket of said Court, before the opening of the Court
on or before the ﬁrst day of the term to which the said cause is re
turnable, without the payment of costs, or giving bond and security
therefore.
'
.
I-‘eon ofCl’k 56. SEC. V. The Clerk and Sheriff of the Court aforesaid, shall
:,",1",§'§,‘|"§',,_ have and receive but two-thirds of the fees heretofore allowed to each
""“"
respectively by law, in all civil cases, to be charged as costs against
,~
the suitors in said Court.‘|'
Attorney’!
57. Sec. VI. Attorneys practising in said Court, shall receive as

M’ '1 50‘ a tax fee, in all suits brought before said Court, the sum of one dol
lar and ﬁfty cents.I
SEC. VII. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend an Act entitled an Act to alter and amend the sev
eral Acts relating to the Court of Common Pleas and of Oyer
and Term/iner of the City of Savannah, assented to 7th Decem
ber, 1841 ; and to amend the several laws regulating the Court of

Com/mom Pleas in the City of Augusta, and to change the time
of holding the Court of Common Pleas in the City of Augusta.
Assented to Dec. 27, 1842. Pam. 68.
mm M
See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after thepassage of this
sion, lat Act, the third quarterly session of the Court of Common Pleas and
§'l,‘l',‘.f“y in of Oyer and Terminer, for the City of Savannah, shall be held on
the ﬁrst Monday in July, instead of the ﬁrst Monday in August, as
prescribed in said Act.
Secs. II. and III. [City Court of Augusta, sees. 58, 59.]

An Act to alter and amend the'several Acts relating to the Court of
Common Pleas and of Oyer and Term-iner for the City of Sa
vannah.-—Assented to Dec. 25, 1843.

Tmlbyjw

58. SEC. I.

Pam. 38.

Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of

ry osdf-ﬁr this Act, where either party in any case before the Courts of Com
term.
stmon Pleas and of Oyer and Terminer for the City of Savammh, shall
man

3

‘See next Act.
1'Sheriﬁ“s fees restored by Act of 1847.
IBM see "Fees," sec. 51.

Sec. 6!.
Appca.l—Shcriﬂ"s Fees.

demand a Jury trial, the said cause shall be tried at the term of the
Court to which it is returnable: Provided, that if either of the par
ties should be unprepared for the trial of such cause, the Court may
continue the same, under the same rules and regulations by which c0m;,,u.,,°,

suits are now continued.
59. Sec. II. In case either party shall be dissatisﬁed with the ver- Appenlwitlr

dict of the Jury, then and in all such cases, either party may, within in May!‘
four days after the adjournment of the Court in which such verdict
was obtained, enter an appeal in the Clerk’s office of such Court as
matter of right: Provided, the person or persons so appealing, shall, On payment‘
previous to obtaining such appeal, pay all costs which may have arisen git-ii';‘b;:ii,
on the former trial, and give security for the eventual condemnation §ﬂ'E§§I'
money, except executors and administrators, who shall not be liable
to give such security. If on hearing such appeal, it shall appear to Dnmzu M

theJury that the appeal was frivolous,and intended for delay only,
they shall assess damages to the party aggrieved by such delay, not
exceeding twenty-ﬁve per cent. on the principal sum which they
shall ﬁnd due, and such damages as shall be assessed, shall be spe
cially noted in the verdict of such Jurors, and no person shall be al- Withdrawal

lowed to withdraw an appeal after it shall be entered, _but by the °“”°‘L
consent of the parties.
60. Sec. III. In all cases where an appeal shall have thus been Arm"
eutered, the cause shall be tried at the next term of the Court of lid .|uly'.p"

Common Pleas and of Oyer and Terminer of the City of Savannah
(unless good cause be shown for a continuance to the Court) by a
special Jury, who shall be taken from the Grand Jury list of the
said Court, andstruck in the presence of the Court in the following
manner: The Clerk shall produce a list of the Grand Jurors presenﬂand ‘Low We
there impanneled, from which the parties plaintifff and defendant, or0 '
their attorney, may strike out one alternately, until there shall be but
twelve Jurors left, who shall forthwith be impanneled and sworn as
special Jurors to try the appeal cause ; and in all cases the appellants 3;I,k¢:'l:,~°\,f
shall strike ﬁrst, and in case of refusal in either to strike such special iherp’-ny.

Jurors, after due notice given for the purpose, and proof thereof, the §ii:1'i“‘§.°
Judge before whom such notice is given for such special Jury to be §,°,,‘i}‘ 0'‘, ‘;‘,,*c.
impanneled, shall in behalf of such absent party, or ,his attorney, P“?
proceed in the same way and manner as if the party absent or refus

ing had been present or consented to the same.
, Sec. IV. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to repeal an Act to alter and amend the several Acts relating
to the Court of Common Pleas and Oyer and Terminer for the
City of Savannah, so far as relates to the Sheriﬁ” of said Court
and to allow said Sheriﬂ‘ certainfees which are not provided for b_i/
law, and 10 increase his fees in certain cases, and to allow him to
appoint special deputy Sheriﬂs in certain cascs.—Approved Dec.

18, 1847.
61. Sec. 1.

Pa.m. 281.
Be it enacted, That so much of the ﬁfth section of the
Sheriﬂ"s Fees-—-Deputy.

snmtrm above recited Act as relates to the reduction of the Sheriff ’s fees of
1:7,}; M, the Court of Common Pleas and Oyer and Terminer for the City of
Savannah, beand the same is hereby repealed; and that the said
Sheriff shall be allowed the following fees, viz: For summoning or
attending on a Jury to try a debtor for fraud under the honest debtor’s
Act, two dollars; for receiving and detaining into his custody any
person or persons given up to him by any security or securities in or
out of Court, one dollar and eighty-seven cents; and the said Sher
,-aa ln uI- iff shall not be compelled or liable to receive any person or persons
'“‘°°“
so surrendered unless the fee be paid him by the security or securi
ties at the time of surrender; and for his attendance on the special or
Petit Jury, and for each verdict rendered, one dollar; for the service
of a rule or order of Court, one dollar.
!l_crlminsl

M

62. Sec. II.

The Sheriff of the Court of Common Pleas and

Oyer and Terminer for the City of Savannah, shall be allpwed the
following fees in criminal cases at special or extraordinary Courts of
Common Pleas and Oyer and Terminer for the City of Savannah,
and at regular terms of said Court.
63. Sec. III. And be it further enacted by the authority afore
""‘“‘ I‘‘"' said, When it so happens that the Sheriff levies on any property
where it is actually necessary for him to have the same guarded,
it shall be lawful for him to appoint a special deputy Sheriff for said
purpose, who shall take an oath before he enters upon his duty that
he will well and truly perform the duties assigned him by the Sher
iff, and if any person or persons shall resist, oppose or assault said
special deputy Sheriff‘ in the discharge of his duty, he, she, or they
on conviction shall be ﬁned or imprisoned at the discretion of the
Court ; and in all cases when the Sheriff requires assistance, it shall

be lawful for the Judge to allow a reasonable compensation to said
Sheriff.
And be it further enacted by the authority aﬁiresiad,

That all laws and parts of laws militating against this Act, be and
the same are hereby repealed.
An Act to authorize the Judge of the Court of Common Pleas and
Oyer and Terminerfor the City of Savannah, to hold special or
eztraordiiia-ry Courts for the summary trials of causes therein
eizuiiieratcd, and to amend an Act entitled an Act to authorize the

Judge of the Court of Common Pleas and Oyer and Tmminer
for the City of Savannah, to hold special or extraordinary Courts
for the summary trial of causes therein enumerated, and to empow
erthe lllayor of the City of Savannah also to hold such special
or extraordinary Courts, and to regulate seamen or mariners, and
to pr_t-vent them from being harbored or runm'n.g in debt, passed
December 26, 183l.*—Approved Dec. 27, 1847. Pam. 91.
Whereas, the trade and commerce of the City of Savannah is in
jured, and masters and commanders of vessels trading to said City
are greatly distressed by the forcibly taking away, abducting, enti
cing or harboring the seamen of said vessels, and whereas the evil
disposed persons who commit such acts frequently escape punish
ment by the absence of witnesses, for want of a summary jurisdic
tion to try said offenders—for remedy whereof,
64. See. I. Be it enacted, Tlrat from and after the passage of Special em,
this Act, it shall and may be lawtul tor the Judge of the Court of £‘,',',l,’°,,:,°,',‘{,,,

Common Pleas and Oyer and Terminer for the City of Savannah, in :°‘f|‘|'f.‘|“'_'l
all cases where any person or persons shall be charged and prosecuted
for the offense ofabducting, entertaining, retaining or harboring any
articled seamen,T upon application to said Judge by the prosecutor
in such case, by petition on oath stating that he or she, or the wit
nesses necessary in carrying on said prosecution cannot, without
great inconvenience and damage to him, her or them, wait the trial
of such charge or prosecution by the ordinary and usual couise of

proceedings in the Courts of the State, to order, and the said Judge
is hereby directed and required to order and anrioiiit a special i r ex
traordinory Court to be held within forty-eight hours after the grant
of such order, for the trial of any such cause, charge or prosecution.
65. Sec. II. The said Jnuge shall, at such special or extraordi- hoeoedlnp
nary Courts, proceed to try each cause according to the provisions of, §,§",_"“‘
and in the manner pointed out by the various sections of the Act of
which this is amendatory, passed 26th December, 1831, and of any

other Acts which may have been passed amendatory thereof.

66. Sec. III.

All the provisions of the aforesaid amended Act A_llihpro

of the 26th December, 1831, regulating the proceedings of such {,',’§,"h,_
special and extraordinary Courts, shall be 8.PI)lIt' able to trials under
this Act.
‘See also Act of1837. sec. 50.
l'For Act deﬁning the oﬂ'ence and punishment for abducting and harboring seamen,
lee title " Agriculture and Commerce," subdivision "Seamen and Mariners,"
Clcrk—Mayor‘s Court.
a

An Act to amend and declare the intention of an Act entillcd an
Act to alter and amend the several Jlidiciary Acts now in force in
this State, so jizr as relates to Justices’ Courls, approved Decem
ber 14th, 18l1.*--Approved Feb. 23, 1850. Pam. 274.
W'hcreas, it is by the ﬁrst section of said Act provided that no Jus
tice of the Inferior Court, Clerk, Sheriff, or practising attorney, be
iug a Justice of the Peace, shall try any warrant and give judgment
thereon; and whereas it has been supposed by some that the Clerk
of the Court of Common Pleas and Oyer and Terminer for the City

of Savannah is included in the provision of said Act; for remedy
whereof,

priazillﬁu
nli/end.

67. See. I.

Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of

this Act, the Clerk of the Court of Common Pleas and Oyer and
Terminer for the City of Savannah, be .and he is hereby wholly ex
empted from the disabilitiesin the above recited provision of the
said Act contained.

‘All laws parts and of laws militating against this Act, he and the
same are hereby repealed.
. 1. Sec. IV.

The Intendant and members of the said Council,

2;‘ .;l,'':' shall each of them have full power and authority to keep peace and
';':L"“°" good order within the said Town, to issue warrants, and cause all
offenders to be brought before them, and on examination, either to
release, admit to bail, if the offense be bailable_,. or commit to the cus
tody of the Sheriff of the County of McIntosh, except in cases here
after provided for, whose duty it shall be to. receive the same, and
keep in safe custody until discharged by due course of law ; and the
said Intendant and every of the members of.the said Council, for the
time being, shall be vested with all the powers and authorities that
Justices of the Peace are vested by the laws of this State, and shall
exercise the same, in every part of the said town, for the preservation
of the peace and good order thereof.
luyom ca. 2. Sec. V. It shall and may be lawful for the said Intendant, or

in his absence, any three of the Council, and they are hereby empow
ered at any time after the passing of this Act, to hold Courts once in
'For this Act, see "Justices of the Peace," sec. 5.
M ayor' s Court—Ju.risdietion—Proceed.in gs.

every month throughout each year, to appoint such ofﬁcers as they Month]!
may think necessary, to settle and allow said otﬁcers reasonable fees, Mn"
and to have jurisdiction of, and to hear and determine allcivil causes Its juriulle

not involving the right or title to any land or real estate, so the demand "°"'
in each suit does not exceed the sum of ﬁfty dollars,* and to give
judgment and award execution therein according to law--Provided,
that if any party to a suit, shall feel him, her, or themselves aggrieved Appolllo by the decision of the said Court, it shall and may be lawful for suchJ‘"y'
party to enter an appeal within three days after such trial, ﬁrst pay
ing all costs which may have accrued on such trial, and giving suf
ﬁcient security to abide and perform the sentence of the Court at the
trial of the appeal; and all appeals from the decision of the said
Court, shall be tried at the succeeding Court day, unless good excuse
isgiven for continuing longer such trial; which trial shall be by a
‘Jury of seven men, whose verdict shall be ﬁnal-—Provided, such

continuance shall not exceed three terms.
3. Sec. VI. The said Intendant and Council shall have the M1,
like power and authority to hold to bail for debts within their juris
diction, under like restrictions as pointed out for the Superior and In
ferior Courts; and shall have power to draw and impannel Jurors Jruia.
for the trial of appeals, who shall be resident within their jurisdiction,
and shall be qualiﬁed and liable to serve as Jurors, to cause them to
be summoned at least ﬁve days before the said Court, and to ﬁne
them for non-attendance or other misconduct, in such manner as
they may think proper; and shall have power to award execution
for such ﬁnes, and cause the goods of the persons so incurring such
ﬁnes, to be sold by virtue thereof: Provided, such ﬁne shall not ex

ceedtten dollars.
4. Sec. VII, The said Intendant and Council shall, in all judi- The Court
cial proceedings, have reference to, and be governed by the laws in :';:','db§ #3.‘;

force in this State, for regulating the judicial proceedings thereof; ’“‘“°“ "°"
and the said Court of Intendant and Council thereof, is declared to
be a Court of record, and any persons necessarily going to, being at man»
or returning therefrom, shall be free from arrest on any _civil suit.’[ °"""
- 5. Sec. VIII. The Town Marshal shall have the power of selling CH Mar
real estate in said Town under execution, issued by the Intendar1t:eiiri;iyi>.
and Council: Provided, all sales made by him-of real estate or ne-}‘|‘,§‘,,,,,,

groes, shall be on the ﬁrst Tuesday in each month, and advertised at :;‘;‘,',:"§;“"
least thirty days.
-dveni-M
SEC. IX. and X. [Relates to work on the streets and com1nons.]

6. Sec. XI.

The Intendant ' and Council shall have power and Conﬁnement

authority to conﬁne all insolvent debtors within their jurisdiction, as :§°f,',§I§',,

well as all offenders against the peace and good order of the State, ;'u‘,B'“i°"
in the jail of Darien, until such time as the County shall build a jail
at the Court house.
‘$100, sec. 7.
132; to gamishmcnts, see Act of 1822, see. YL “Attachment and Garnishment.”

sec.

Jurindiction Increased—Savannah Police.

An Act to make the Town of Dorian a City, and to amend thefore
going Act.—Approved Dec. 18, 1818. Vol. III. 1014.
See. I. and II. [Changes the style of the Town to that of “City,”
and direct the election of a Mayor and Aldermen in the place of
Intendant and Council.]
‘
Junndiction
7. Sec. Ill. The jurisdiction of the Mayor’s Court of the City
2353? U‘ of Darien shall be increased to one hundred dollars; and in holding
1-1,, Dhyov, the Mayor’s Court for the trial of civil causes, the Mayor shall pre
""“"‘* "“’ side, and he shall be allowed the same fees as are allowed to the
“"18 IS was

than" "Ia Mayor of Savannah on sums of like amount ; and any person dissat
[nu-ndnnt
and Council. isﬁed with the decision of the Mayor, may appeal to a Jury, in the
manner now provided for in the Intendant and Council’s Court of
the Town of Darien; and the same proceedings shall be had on all '
Advertise
m,,,,,,-Ma, such appeals; and it shall be lawful for the City Marshal to adver
"“"B I*'°S~ tise his sales in any gazette in the City of Darien.
I See. 2. Otlicers and Fees.

An Act amcndatory ofand in addition to the various Acts heretofore
passed in reference to the City ofSavannah.—Approved Dec. 8,
1849. Pam. 83.
,,, me mm 1. See. I. Be it enacted, That the Police Court of the City of
i$‘:Z °‘ Savannah be, and the same is hereby established and declared a
Court of Record; that the Mayor or acting Mayor of said City be,
and he is hereby authorized to preside in said Court, and to hold ses
sions thereof as often as to him may appear to be necessary ; that
,,,,k,,,,,,,,,, said Court shall have cognizance in the ﬁrst instance of all offenses:
l“‘“'“°“°"i against the laws of the State touching said City, including as well
this law and the laws and ordinances hereafter to be enacted and or
dained, as those which are now of force, with power to inﬂict the.
punishments by ﬁne and imprisonment, prescribed by the existing
laws and ordinances or which may be ﬁxed by laws and ordinances.
"'4 I>"""- hereafter to be enacted or ordained, and to enforce the same by execu
tion or mittimus, directed to the Marshal of said City, or any Law
ful Constable thereof, and to the Jailer of Chatham County, when
necessary; and that said Court shall have power to commit to the
common jail of Chatham County any and all person and persons who
shall disturb said Court during its sittings or who shall in any other
Am>“lmanner be in contempt of its lawful authority: Provided, neverthe
less, that an appeal may be taken from any judgment or decision
of said Court (except a commitment for contempt) to the Mayor
and Aldermen of the City of Savannah and the hamlets thereof, in
Common Council assembled, all ‘costs being ﬁrst paid and bond given
,to abide the decision of the said Common Council.

elem.
2. Sec. II.

The Clerk of the Council of the City of Savannah,
Oﬂieers' Fecs-Analysis.

the Marshal of said City, and the Constables of said City, be and
they are hereby constituted officers of the Police Court of said City,
and that they be, and they are hereby authorized to demand and re
ceive for services rendered or duties performed in said Court, such
fees and costs for themselves, to be collected out of the defendants, Fm
' as may be established by any present or ‘future ordinance of said
;City.
' The remaining sections of this Act, local.)
r-:0. X. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act

be and the same are hereby repealed.

[Statutes omitted as repealed Act of 1832, (City Court of Colum
bus,) Pam. 62. Of 1833, (City Court of Maeon,) Pam. 57; 1834,
Pam. 97.]
JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.‘

62, Proof of open account.

‘For the mode of election and qualiﬁcation of Justices and Constables, their bonds

and oaths, the appointment of the latter in certain cases, see "County Oﬂicers," secs,
2, 12, 22, ‘I8, 30. 55. 55. 53, 61, 73. 76; Constitution, Art. III. sec. 1.
Various duties of these oﬁicers are so interwoven with other Statutes, as so render it
impossible to collect them here. See, for some of them, “ Judiciary," Articles “ Certi.
orari," " Lien,” "Limitation of Actions,” "Possessory \Va.1-rants," " Usui-y," See .11.
00, title " Estrays," secs. 4, 6, 11.

For Act authorizing returns to be traversed, see “ Judicizu'y," Art. XVII. “ Oﬂicers.”
see. 382.
For Acts requiring Clerks to record Constables’ bonds, and give them certiﬁcates, see
2' County Oﬂicers," sec. 73.

K For Act authorizing lnferior Courts to lay out now districts, see " Counties," see. 19.

632
Attachruents—Trespass—Dooket—Jux-isdiction.

.-in .-lct for the appointment of County Oﬂicers.-—Approved Feb. 16.

1799.
I
gum;-smsy

Vol. I. 201.

Sec. V. [See County Oﬁicers]
1. Sec. LXXI. And the said Justices respectively may, and are

ZZ?,'i.“LL“;f,'§I lm-eby fully authorized and empowered, to issue attachments return

"""'° “‘ "‘”' uhh;_ to the Superior or Inferior Courts,. under like circumstances,
and
Superior or

M °°""- in like manner as the Judges or Justices of the said Courts are em
powered to do.
Judiciary Act of 1799.

Vol. I. 292.

-4

Justice mu

RTLLY...

2. Sec. LXI.

No Justice of the Peace shall sustain or try any

satisfaction in damages for any trespass on the person or property of
such plaintifff.
gin. Act to compel the Justices of the Peace in this State, to keep a _/hir
aml1‘egulu1‘B00k of Eutry——Approved Dec. 13, 1809_. Vol II.
572.

1'"‘*"-" of

3.

See. I.

From and after the ﬁrst day of March next, it shall

h. P
.
.
. State, to keep a fair
.
ln:vp::::>l:n
he the duty of each Justice
of the Peace 111
this
of out ‘ of

;||a.i’|pn> and legible book of entry of all civil proceedings had before him,
°"“‘“"" liq‘ the recovery of debts, dac

‘?,n,i,g:;:;;l;:r_
::::"=:¢.1. S50. II.

In all cases where any Justice of the Peace in this

M It 2, shall resign or remove out of the limits of the district for
v.-in ah he shall have been appomtcd, it shall be the duty .of such
.l*|.=.tIce to deliver the said book, or a fair copy thereof, to his succes
sor in office, within sixty days after he'may be commissioned, or
(!'.:p\:sit the same with the Clerk of the Inferior Court.
Act of 1810.

""""'.'°l"1

Sec. II.

on alarm

Vol. II._ 620.

[Juries on claims “to take a like oath” with Juries on
.

appeals.

Balance of this Act superseded.]

An /let to alter and amend the several Jzuliciary Acts new in force
in this State, so for as relates to Justices’ Cou1'ts.—Appr0ved Dec.

ll, 1811.

Vol. III. 368.

lV/tLT8(l8, the said Acts are not found to answer the purposes for
w‘-.n:~.h they were intended;

Jlirisdlctlon
5. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passing of
Z§f§.‘f,‘;”u,_ th is ;lct, the Justices of the Peace in the respective company districts,
'

or any one, or more of them, shall have authority and jurisdiction to
hear and determine all suits on any liquidated demand or account,
for any sums of money not exceeding thirty dollars,* by summons
ﬂixcluaive of interest See sec. 86.
or warrant: Provided, that no Justice of the Inferior Court, Clerk,* Proviso
Sheritf, or practising Attorney, being a Justice of the Peace, shall
try.an=y warrant, or give judgment thereupon in any civil case whatso
ever _;' and the said Justices are hereby authorized and empowered
to give judgment and award execution thereon; Provided neverthe
less,'tlmt either party being dissatisﬁed, shall be allowed an appeal, Appeal.
on payment of costs and giving security for the eventual cmdemna
tio‘n“'I'noney within three days after judgment ;1' or the party cast ,,“,:iy‘n"i" 3
may'stay the levy of execution forty days, on payment of cost, and
'
giv'ing'security within four days after judgment ; but no stay of ex- Btnyoforo
eeution shall be allowed after an appeal trial, for a longer time than i°,‘,'i4"ii';,‘,",,'_m'

twenty days ; in which case, the security on the appeal, together
w'ith"the security for the stay of execution, shall be liable for the
d_eb|--and cost. And it shall be lawful for‘ any person or persons,
who has or have in his, her, or their hands any bond, note, or 110‘

count, which was given for any sum exceeding thirty dollars, a11d Debts wiri
. .
nally over
the
amount of which
has been reduced by any payment, or pay—$'m1.“-0
.
ments, or off-sets, to the sum of thirty dollars, or under, and which ','§°,P,'§,‘:;§f*

p‘a'y'n1ent or payments are endorsed on the back of such bond, note :‘,',f,',":u‘,;" N
or"'ae'c‘o1'n1t; or where any bond, note, account or other agreement under

(ga.m'in'g debts excepted) which in its original exceeded the sum of
thirty dollars, but has been reduced by bond or bonds, note or notes,
‘ although of equal date, and payable at the same time, to a sum or
su‘m's'nnder or of thirty dollars each, that then and in every such
case it shall and may be lawful for any person or persons, who has
or have in his, her, or their hands, any such note or notes, bond or

bonds, or accounts as aforesaid, to bring suit thereon in the J ustiees’
Conn in the district where the debtor or debtors may reside; and
the'Justice or Justices are hereby authorized to give judgment for
whatever sum in his judgment appears to be due.I
"6; Sec. II.

All such appeals shall be tried before any one or Ar-i>I-ﬂn

more Justice or Justices in the company district in which the, cause l'ii)dd.‘°b'
originated, by ﬁve Jurors, to be drawn, impanneled and sworn as
hereinafter directed, and in no other manner whatsoever, whose ver
dict shall be ﬁnal and conclusive between the parties (except remov
ed by eertiorari;) Provicled always, that no Justice or Justices ofmmn

the Peace shall l1old any Justices’ Court, or pass any judgment in {j,"},“,,“f,‘,',§‘f'
any civil case on any other, or more than one day in each InOlltl'1,::“,:(‘,lt|‘i;’n.

which day they may appoint in their respective districts ; nor at any and rlwm
other place than that specially mentioned in the warrant or summons ;

which place shall be as near central as convenience will admit, which §‘y"a‘;',‘,,:;"
warrant or summons shall be served by any Constable of the dis- ""1 "W W
trict in which the defendant may reside, duly appointed and sworn arm’
to the faithful execution of his oﬂice, either by giving a copyto the
defendant in person, or by leaving a copy thereof at his, her, or their
usual and notorious place of abode, at least ten§ days before the day
‘Ex: lained as to Clerk of Common Pleas of Savannah.

See “City Courts," “ Sannnah," sec. 67.

1'May appeal without paying cost; see " Judiciary," M. 150.
IRe-enacted in 1842, see. 49,

- §Nine days, by Act of 1841.
Co-obligors-—Attachments—-Garnishment—Judgment vs. Garnishec.

of trial; and it shall be the duty of the Constable serving the sum
mons or warrant, to make an entry of service thereon in writing, and
sign such return.

m,'_f(',f,_f§r
7. Sec. III.
Where a suit shall be instituted in any Justice’a

fi'(;*‘;'\i‘;°:ﬁr'_e- Court on any bond, note, or other written obligation, subscribed by
lbrent cn_un- several persons living in different Counties or districts, the plaintifff
iiiztgr ms‘ shall have his option to institute his suit in either of the Counties or
districts, and a copy of the original process being served on either or
each of said obligors or promisors by an ofﬁcer duly authorized, who
shall make areturn thereof under his hand to the person applying for
such service, or the Court from which the original issued ; and on
such return being made, the Justice or Justices shall be authorized
to enter up judgment against the several obligors or promisors, or
either of them, who shall be summoned as aforesaid.
8. Sec. IV. It shall and may be lawful for any Justice of the
Altlchllﬂll.
Peace, upon complaint made on oath by any person, that his or her
In whatcu-debtor resides out of the State, or is actually removing without the
°' “"”“°‘ limits of the same or any County thereof, or absconds or conceals
himself, or stands in deﬁance of a peace officer, so that the ordinary
lhwimcdy process of law cannot be served upon him, to grant an attachment
against the estate of such debtor, or so much thereof as shall be of
sufficient value to satisfy the plaintifff ’s demand and cost,"" which
::i'r;;_ed md attachment shall be directed to, and levied by any lawful Consta
ble of the County where the property may be found, upon the estate
of such debtor whereverto ‘be found, either in the hands of any per
Guni-im. son indebted or having effects of such debtor in their possession,
and summon such person or persons to appear at the Court to be held
in and for the said district to which said attachment may be made
q.m1,h,.,,, returnable, there to answer upon oath what he, she, or they are in
“"’°"
debted to, or what effects of such debtor he, she, or they hath or
have in their hands, or had at the time of levying such attachment ;
Which being returned executed, the Court may by order compel such
person or persons to appear and answer as aforesaidsf And where
Traverse of any person in whose hands such attachment may be levied, shall deny
:'§L',‘3:,";'§_ on oath owing any money to, or having in his, her, or their hands
""°"
any effects of such debtor, it shall and may be lawful for the plain
tiff, or his attorney or agent, to traverse such denial, and thereupon an
Trialthcront'lSSl10 shall be made up, and the same shall be tried at the next term,
by aJury of ﬁve persons, drawn, impanneled and sworn, in like
manner as in appeals ; but on good cause being shown on oath, the
trial may be put olf one term, at the instance of either party,
Continuance
and no longer; and if found against such garnishee, he, she,
or they shall be subject to pay the plaintifff such sum as shall be so

Jud_gment found, and cost ; and the Court shall order judgment to be en
§',,'{§},,',’;f’ tered thereupon against such garnishee as against the original debtor:
Amchmon, Provided, that such Justice of the Peace shall, before granting such

"“““‘.

attachment, take bond and security of the party to whom the same
may be granted, in double the sum sworn to by the attaching credit
‘As 1'0 making parties, see “ Attachment and Garnishment," sec. 9.
1’Garnishmentmay issue in all cases. See Acts of 1822, 1823, 1830, 1834 and 1841,
"Attachment and Garniahment," sees. 22, 28, 38, 43, 68.
or, payable to the defendant, for satisfying and paying all costs and g‘:;g(‘,‘,';°"
damages which may be incurred by, or happen to the defendant, in
case the plaintifff suing out such attachment should discontinue or
be cast in his, her, or their suit ; which bond shall be returned to the

. Court to which such attachment may be returnable; and such at
tachment shall be tried at or before the second Justices’ Court after Q‘h'§'::1;‘:
the one to which it may be made returnable ; and the party entitled med
to such costs and damages, may bring suit and recover thereon : and Attachment

every attachment issued without such} bond being taken, or where no §'l'ﬁlZ.'°°°"
bond shall be returned to the Court with the attachment, the said at- lrresulu nt

tachment is Qreby declared to be illegal, and shall be dismissed with ‘$i'i“°‘“
costs : Provided always, that every attachment which may be issued
asaforesaid, shall be attested by the Justice issuing the same, and 33* mm
shall be by the ofﬁcer levying the same, publicly advertised at the How adver
place of holding the Courts in said distrrct, and at one ormore public um‘
places in the County, at least ﬁfteen days previous to the Court to
which said attachment may be made returnable; and if any attach
ment shall be issued within ﬁftecn days of the next Court, such at
tachment shall be returnable to the succeeding Court, and shall be
tried as heretofore directed. And all goods and chattels, lands and

tenements, attached, shall be repleviable by the defendant’s giving Repmy‘
bond, with good and sufficient security, to the officer levying the
same, which bond he is hereby empowered _to take, compelling the ,‘;'l‘;"‘,‘£‘il‘:£' °'
defendant to appear at the Court to which such attachment may be
made returnable, and to abide by and perform the order of such
Court: Provided nevertheless, that all goods and effects attached and f;l;i:ll;:b]'n"y
not replevied, agreeable to the provisions of this Act, where the be sold.
same shall be of a perishable nature, the said Justice or Justices of
the~Peace shall, on motion of the plaintifff, his, her or their attorney
dr agent,‘ordcr :1 sale of the same; and the proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into said Court, and by them applied to the discharge of
the plaintifff ’s demand, if established, and costs; and the balance, if

any, returned to the defendant or his attorney: Provided ncverllm-"°“' '°‘¢
less, that all sales of perishable property under attachment, shall un
dergo the same formalities of other Constable’s sales under execu
tions ; and whenever any attachment shall be returned served in the :,“1§!::;::"
hands of a third person, it shall be lawful, on his or her appearance 9!; sun

and examination, in the manner hereinafter directed, to enter up" °°’
judgment as against the original debtor, and award execution for the

money due by him or her to the absent debtor, and against such E::,°‘°°“‘
property or effects as may be in his or her hands or keeping, belong
ing to such absent debtor, or so much thereof as will be of value

sufficient to satisfy the judgment or judgments and costs.

_

And all I,§,“,f,,'°',,':,§,

such goods and chattels, levied on as aforesaid, and not replevied, '““°'‘° 5
shall, after the plaintifff has established his demands, be by order of
the Court sold and disposed of, for and towards satisfying the plain- wh°.""1°Y
are insuffi
tiff ’s judgment, in like manner as if the same had been taken under clent,l:>I.l:l_0
execution; and where the property so attached and sold as afore- figilgd in:
said, should prove insufficient to satisfy the debt and cost, or where {’j,,,'?“ °"‘

the same shall be of the nature of real estate, then and in that case, m,“,““§,°,';,
81
Parties’ oath—Set-ofi'—Claims—Bail—\\'ituesscs.

the amount it shall be the duty of said Justice to issue execution or executions,
‘Mu,md_
for the amouht of said judgment and cost, or so much thereof as re
Debu retur
And when any person. as garnishee, returns
nod by gu mains unsatisﬁed.

nishoel, m
h. mod for

and applied
by the court.

debts due to the absent debtor, the Court shall order the same to be
sued for, and when recovered, subject to the order of the Court.

9. Sec. V. In all cases brought before any Justice’s Court, the
best evidence the nature of the case will admit of, shall be required ;
o-m nﬂhe nor shall any person, plaintiﬂ' or defendant, be permitted to prove
"‘"'°"
his or her account, by his or her own oath, without ﬁrst making
oath in writing, that he or she hath no other evidence whereby to
establish the same that is in his or her power to procure’and in all
local
cases of mutual debts and sets-oil‘, the said Justice or Justices may
enter up judgment for the defendant, where it shall satisfactorily
Oominulm appear that there is a balance due him or her ; and on good cause be
oicauu.
.
.
.
1ng shown on oath by either party, the said Justices may postpone
Bvtduu.

cwmmr

the trial three terms, and no longer; and where an execution is lev

"°’°“"'

ied on property claimed by any person not a party to said execution,

it shall be the duty of the Constable to postpone the sale of such
gfigzvit of property, and make return thereof to the ﬁrst Court in said district:
Provided, the person putting in such claim shall [first make oath in

Bond.

writing, that said property is not liable to said execution,'|' and shall
also] give bond and security in double the amount of such execu
tion, which bond the Constable is hereby authorized to take, paya
ble to the plaintifff in execution, with condition to pay all costs and
damages which he or she may sustain, in case it should appear such
claim was frivolous and intended for delay only, recoverable in any
c',m‘1_°"h° Court having cognizance thereof; and it shall be the duty of the
said Court to cause the right of property to be tried at the next term
by ﬁve Jurors, to be drawn and impanneled in like manner as ap-_
Omcomim peals,I and on good cause being shown on oath, the Court may post
uance.
pone the trial for one term, and no longer.
_
nut.

10. Sec. VI.

The said Justices shall have power and authority

to hold to bail for debts within their jurisdiction, under such re
strictions and regulations as prevail in the Superior and lnfcrior
Courts.
.
‘
Wﬂwm»
11. Sec. VII. Any Justice of the Peace may issue summonses'
for witnesses resident within the County in any case to be tried before .
him, which shall be served ﬁve days before the day of trial ; and such
”€'=\"|"nlt witnesses shall be subject to a ﬁne not exceeding $10 for default,
wrtnessu.
at the discretion of said Justice, and moreover be hable to the party
grieved by action in any Court having jurisdiction of the same, for
any damages he may sustain by such default, who may issue execu-9
tion for the amount of said ﬁne: Provided, sufficient excuse shall

§::'§':f;_ not be made at or before the next Court day : Provided also, that
leases.
all witnesses duly summoned, and attending said Court, who may
reside out of the district where such Court may be held, shall re
‘See sec. 52, as to proof of set-off. As to affidavit of non-resident plaintifff, see Act
of1827, see. 89.
1-Oath changed and may be made by agent, sec. 80. As to claims to property at
tached, see “Attachment, " &c. sec. 6.

As to land and negroes attached, sec. 31.

(1 ) If Jury are sworn to special Jury oathin Superior Courts, no error. 8 Go. 49.
Interrogat/aries—Jury.

ceive seventy-ﬁve cents per day for their attendance ;’*‘ and provided
also, that there shall not be taxed in the bill of cost the expense of
more than two witnesses to prove the same fact; and it shall be the §:::::;;*t
duty of all persons summoned as aforesaid, to attend from time to point. M
time until the cause shall be determined, or they be otherwise dis
charged by the Court; and all ﬁnes shall be paid into the hands of rm;
the Inferior Court for the use of the County; and when any wit
ness resides out of the County, whose evidence may be material for
either party in any cause pending in the said Justice‘s Court, it shall “°“ “"
and may be lawful for the party wishing to obtain such testimony to
obtain a commission from the Justicc issuing the summons, ﬁrst giv
ing the adverse party, his agent or attorney, ﬁve days’ notice, accom
panied with a copy ot the interrogatories intended to be exhibited,
which commission shall be directed to any two or more freeholders,
one of whom shall be a Justice of the Peace, to examine on oath,
all and every such witness or witnesses; and such examination, Hm, ,,.,,,,,,_

when so taken, shall be sealed up by the commissioners, and direet- “L
ed to the Magistrate by whom it was issued, and on returning the
same shall swear-1' that it has undergone no alteration from the time
of his receiving it of the commissioners; and the commission and
interrogatories so issued, executed and returned, shall be read on the
trial at the instance of either party.
12. Sec. ‘VIII. The method of drawing Jurors for the trial of ap- Mr M
peals and all other cases in

Justices’ Courts in each district, shall‘°"° ""1

be as follows : The Justice or Justices residing in each Captain’s
district, in conjunction with commanding officers of said dis
trict, shall, once in every two years, procure or make out a list of
all persons liable to serve as Jurors in the Superior Courts, who may
be residents in their respective districts, and shall write the name of
every person so liable on a separate piece of paper, which shall
be deposited in a box in an apartment marked No. 1., and shall draw
therefrom not less than ﬁve nor more than seven of the names, so
before deposited, from time to time, to try the causes so depending
before them, which names so drawn shall be entered in a book by
the Justice presiding at the drawing thereof, and shall be deposited
in an apartment of said box, marked No. 2; and after all the names

are drawn from No. 1, they shall commence drawing from No, 2, and
so on alternately: Provided, that no Justice shall presume to draw mm».

any Jury, but on a Court day, and in public, and by a person not in
terested in any suit to be tried by said Jury; and any person so D,r,,,m,,g

drawn and summoned by a Constable ﬁve days before Court, neg-1,-;:,';',‘;f “""
lecting to appear, shall be ﬁned by the Justice or Justices in a sum
not exceeding three dollars, unless such Juror shall show sufficient
cause of excuse on oath at the next term ; and in all cases of deﬁ

ciency of Jurors, the Constable, by the direction of the Justices, shall
ﬁll and complete such Jury from the bystanders: Provided there shall
not be less than three of the original pannel on such Jury ; and they -Mama.
shall for every verdict by them given 111 be entitled to twenty-ﬁve cents ,,,,,. M
‘Otherwise nothing. See “ Fees," sec. 331
1'l'hat the person delivering in the deposition shall make this oath, is undoubtedly
the meaning of the Statute.
Oath—l)iscretion as to eost>—Bonds, notes, &c.—Rmidenw—\'uucy

to be paid by the party in whose favor such verdict may be given,
and to be taxed in the bill of costs.
0,", or ,,,,,

l""Y13. S20. IX.

The oath to be administered to the Jury on the

trial of appeals, also for the trial of the right of property, and on a.
traverse trial in

Justices’ Courts, shall be as follows: “ You shall

well and truly try the cause now pending between A B, plaintifff,
and C D, defendant, and a true verdict give according to equity,
and the opinion you entertain of the evidence produced to you,
to the best of your skill and knowledge, without favor or affection
to either party, provided the case is not withdrawn; so help you
God.”
‘J_:_I:;|::‘:;li; 14. Sec. X. Where any person or persons, charged with any
coutsincrim-Oﬂ'eIlCB, and brought before a Justice or Justices of the Peace, shall
""1 cm" be discharged for want of sufficient cause of commitment, the Justice
or Justices may, in his or their discretion, discharge the party with
cost, or direct the cost to be paid by the prosecutor.
'
B,,,d,,,,m,' 15. Sec. XI. No person shall be permitted, in any trial in said
,‘,‘,,‘,',,',‘,',’,',},‘I,'’‘’ Justices’ Court, to deny his bond, note, or bill, for money or other
;';'n9;;';_i" tlfiing,hu3lessalsuch person shall ﬁrst make oath in writing to the truth
0 sue
em .
»
,-,,,,,,,,m_

16. Sec. XII.

In case any person or persons, after being sum

",;f;"§ "°' moned to answer any complaint for debt, before any Justice of the
Peace, shall, before the sitting of such Court, remove out of the dis
trict, such Justice may nevertheless give judgment against him, her,
am judg- or them; and if any person shall after judgment of such Court remove
""’“"
out of the '
(.t or C nan y before satisfaction made, such Justice
may, in either case, issue execution against such person or per
sons, which execution being backed by any Justice of the County
where such person or persons, or his, her, or their property may be
found, may be levied by any lawful Constable of said County.
;l|§:n'ic:y;i::-8 ' 17. SEC. XIII. _If any person or persons shall live or reside with
juﬂsdicuon. in any County or district for the space of ten days, the same shall
constitute a sufficient residence so as to authorize the Justices of
said County or district to proceed against him, her, or them, before
any company district Court, as hereinbefore pointed out for all debtb
within their jurisdiction.*
3:83:53: 18. SEC. XIV. In case there be no Justice of the Peace res
any-I adjoin-’
ident . in any
Captain’s
district,
then it shall. and
. A
.
- . .
.
.
. may be lawful
. for

:5 :12“ a Justice, in any l1(l_]O1Il1I]g district, to proceed in like manner as if the
35%;: 5,‘: defendant was an inhabitant of his district ; and all cases in which a

;'§;2;';§,, Justice of the Peace may be a party, shall be tried in the nearest Jus
":h°°"&¢:1
tices’ Court to the residence of the defendant in said County, and
:;¢:;w; mm not within the district in which he may reside.

it'mi§e§'1'M,‘

19. SEC. XV.

The Justices of the Peace of the respective Coun

be indicted
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,
ties shall be, and they are hereby declared to be liable to prosecution

W i“ °m°°- and trial, by indictment, for mal-practice in oﬁice ; and it shall be the
duty of the Attorney or Solicitor General, on complaint made to
them, or either of them, on oath, by any person or persons, to frame
and prefer a bill of indictment to the Grand Jury of the County in
which the Justice or Justices complained of may reside, containing
‘But see Act of 1818, see. 32, as to itinerant persons.
5urety—Sa1es—Real estate an d negroes-Judgment—Salc—Duty of Constables.

the merits of the complaint specially set forth; which indictment, if
found by the Grand Jury, after hearing the evidence and the parties,
shall be tried by a Petit Jury; and if convicted on such indictment,
the judgment of the Court may extend to ﬁne and removal from of
'ﬁce, or either, at discretion.
[See Penal Laws, sec. 192.]

When it shall appear by the return of a Constable* Thonursty

on any execution or executions, that the same has been paid by a§,'i,c‘,',y,},',',‘,"'

security or securities, it shall be the duty of the Justice or Justices to §,'}:'l°'l““§;,
make an entry thereof in their docket book, and such security or se~ “"
curities shall have the use and control of said execution or executions
for the purpose of remunerating him, her, or themselves out of their
principal, although such execution may have been levied and proper
ty sold to satisfy the same.
21. Sue. XVII. It shall be the duty of Constables to advertise Constables"
all intended sales at two or more of the most public places in their :;,'::,,";'g,‘_°

proper district, and at one or more of the most public places in the “
County,T at le tst ﬁfteen days before any sale, and shall give a full
and clear description of the property to be sold ; and all Constables’ And "hm
sales shall be at the place of holding Justices’ Courts in the several mm.
company districts, and on a Court day, and that between the hours nuum-mi.
of ten and three o’clock.I
.
22. Sec. XVIII. No Constable shall be authorized to levy on :l::j\Ine:;§:'_
any negro or negroes, or real estate, unless there is no other person- Non‘, be

al estate to be found sutﬁcient to satisfy the debt§‘ and then and in ';};ic"r‘f,:"'u,_
that case, they are hereby authorized to levy on the same wherever ﬂdemr of
other pencil

to be tound, and deliver over the execution or executions to the Flny aunt»

Sheriff of the County, with a return of the property levied on, who °'"‘ ‘
shall proceed to sell the same, with such formalities as are prescribed
for the sale of real estates.2

23. Sec. XIX.

All judgments which may be obtained in, andﬁlpirgegga

executions issued from any Justices’ Court after the passing of this the property,

Act, shall bear equal dignity with judgments obtained in and execu
tions issued from the Superior or Inferior Courts, and shall bind all
the property of the defendant from the date of the said judgment;M M M
and also all the property of his, her, or their securities from the time rsnrpthqt
of their entering themselves as such until the same shall be satisﬁed. ,,.,,e,,._
24. Sue. XX. A reasonable compensation shall be allowed to Gmwbles
may be com
Constables, for carrying property levied on to the place of sale, when pcgsatoid for
I [ll

I!

00 vey 11;

there appears an absolute necessity for so doing, to be adjudged of by ,,,.,,,.,,,,.,,,

the Justice or Justices resident in said district.
25.

Sec. XXI.

{,',‘,f,f"‘°° °’

It shall be the duty of the Constables of the D"'>'°fC°"
stables in

‘Or on trial, see. 31.

lev '
See farther, as to rights of sureties, title "Judiciary," Article vrclziiflgcsfr

XXI. "- Sureties and Indoraers," sec. 430.
'fAltered by Act of 18-12, sec. 48.
1Four o'clock, see "Judiciary," Art. III. "Action," sec. 177.

§Dct‘endant may point them out; see Act of 1842. sec. 47 As to levies on bank stock,
see Judiciary," sec. 180.
(1.) Such entry must be on the _ﬁ. fa. (or that defendant pointed out the property)
to make a sale valid. 3 Kelly, 222.

The entry may be made by the officer at any time,

sum: pro turns, 3 Kelly, 222. It will be presumed, where the paperislost and a levy on
land and sale under it has been made. 6 Ga. 188.
(2.) The Sheriff is lawfully Mind of such land and negroes. 7 Ga. 264.
Liabilities-—Fees.

several districts to levy all executions put into their hahds agreeably

to the tenor thereof, and to make due returns of the same together
with all summonses or warrants, to the Court to which they may

"‘h""’""'"i-be made returnable; and if any Constable shall fail to execute and
ly for mi 'Conduu-D

[nuke returns, 01'

to

OI‘

account

\V.lth
.
any PCISOH

fOl' “/hon]. he

may have received money on any execution, within ten days after
{Fr apptiw the reception thereof, the person so injured as aforesaid, may
run In aJus<

iigicigu-0 upon application to any_Justice within the district where said Con
stable may reside (and in case there should be no Justice in sand dis
trict, then an application to a Justice in any adjacent district) whose
duty it shall be to grant a warrant to such applicant against such
Constable, and such Justice shall, upon proof thereof, award judg
ment and execution for tl1e same and all cost against such Constable,
and also ﬁne him for such abuse in a sum not exceeding ten percent.
on the amount so withheld ; and in case ofneglect or refusal to serve
and return any warrant or summons as aforesaid, may ﬁne the Con
stable so offending, in a sum not exceeding the amount of the debt
B; plflltclls due by the defendant; and all Constables shall moreover be subject

§'L','l§,.‘,'l€ to be prorecuted and tried for mal-practice in office, in like manner
F°"~

as herein pointed out for Justices of the Peace, and liable to like
pains and penalties.
26. Sec. XXII. From and after the passing of this Act, Justi
ces of the Peace and Constables throughout this State, shall receive
the following fees for the services hereinafter mentioned, and no
IIIOIB.
JUSTICES, OF THE PEACE FEES IN CRIMINAL CASES.‘

For aﬂidavit to obtain a warrant, 25 cents ; for making out a war
°"°'~

rant, 25 cents J' for malrinor
out a commitment J 25 cents 7- for makin
D

out recognizance and returning the same to Court, ‘25 cents; for
each subpoena for witnesses, 12 1-2 cents.
IN crvir. ossssi
,[:,,3f'"

For a warrant or summons, 25 cents; for each cause tried by said
Justice, 25 cents ; for aﬂidavit to obtain an attachment or to hold to
bail and taking the bond, 50 cents ; for each execution, ca. sa. or at
tachment, 25 cents; for taking interrogatories and certifying the
same, one dollar; for drawing Jury and making out venire, 2:"rcents;
for each cause tried by said Jury, 25 cents ; for each affidavit where
there is no cause pending, 25 cents.
cossrssws’ FEES IN CIVIL cssss.I

gg1,If:i';gl- For serving a warrant, summons, or subpoena, 25 cents; for each
was
additional copy, 25 cents ; for attending each trial in a Justiccs’ Court
25' cents; for summoning a Jury, 50 cents; for each cause tried by
said Jury, 25 cents; for levying and advertising an attachment, 25
‘A11 to be increased 25 per cent. by Act of 1819; see " Fees,” sec. 35.
'l'On possessory warrrints, see " Fees," sec. 39.

ISee farther as to Constables fees, title “ Fees," sec. 21.
Costs—\Vhen J. 1’. or Constable is a party-—(,‘ontempt—Claims.

cents; for levyiuga ca. sa. or execution and advertising, 25 cents;
carrying a prisoner to jail, per mile 4 cents ; for carrying a negro to
and from jailwhen under execution, per mile 4 cents; for keeping a
horse, mare, mule, ass, or ox, per day, 121-2 cents; for each head
of neat cattle, per day 3 cents; for each head of sheep, goats, or hogs
per day 2 cents; and shall moreover be entitled to ﬁve per centum on
the amount of sales made by him under execution.
27’. Sec. XXIII. In future any person or persons who may in- §e',{,§,°'“m-'
stitute any suit or suits in any .Iustice’s Court,'shall be at liberty to on!“ pay
settle or withdraw the same at any time, on payment of the cost memomm
ywhich may have already accrued.

And in all cases where execution rum defen

or executions may issue and being returned with an entry of service §,l:::,i'_l|i.:"°"
thereon, no property to be found whereon to levy, the plaintiiI' is ,‘:,;[‘,"}§,"

hereby liable and bound for the cost, and that on refusal to pay the °°B"
same, execution may issue for the said amount against the said
plaintiﬂ".*
Sac. XXIV. [Repealed See Roads, Ferries, and Bridges, sec.
17, 29.]
'
28. Sec. XXV. It shall be lawful for any Constable of the }"|’_:'§:'M
County to serve any warrant or summons wherein any Justice of Con-mbllu
the Peace or Constable may be a party, and to summon any witness- m pm“
es and to serve any bail warrant or attachment, and to make due
return thereof to the Court to which the same may be made return
able ; and where it may so happen that there is no Constable in the ()on:I_:b'I: in
district, it shall and may be lawful for any Constable in the County EX’, §l,:",‘,?,,°"

to act in the said district, in all respects as if such Constable had .C:,‘j“‘Y ‘MY
been appointed for said district.
Sec. XXVI. [Appointment of Constables by the Magistrates.
See “County Oﬁicers,” sec. 11.]
29. Sue. XXVII.

The Justices of the Peace of the several dis- Justicglrmlr

tricts shall have power during the sitting of their respective Courts, §:i,'ii:|1_,§-rin

to ﬁne or imprison any person or persons for contempt of said Courts, ‘°"" ‘““°‘
to be adjudged of by the said Justice or Justices, in any sum not
exceeding $2, or imprisonment for a term not exceeding two days
for each offense, which said ﬁne when collected, shall be paid over
into the hands of the Inferior Court for County purposes.
Sr-:c. XXVIII. [Repeals all conﬂicting laws.]

Act of November 23, 1814.

Vol. III. 382.

30. So much of the Vth section of the above recited [the fore- Clmunt,
going] Act as requires persons claiming property under execution§‘,'§'L§

not a party to such execution, to make oath that such property is

[‘,,':'*

not liable to such execution, be and the same is. hereby repealed. =:;'i'°2‘ hi
And in all cases of executions from any Justices’ Courts in this
State, levied on property claimed by any person not a party to such
execution, such person shall make oath that such property levied
on is his, her, or their right and property, or his, her, or their prop
erty as attorney, agent, guardian, executor, or administrator, as the case
‘Justice may require non-resident to deposit the costs.

See sec. 83.

648

JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.-1816-’l9.
Suret_v—ltinerants—Non-Rcsidcnts—-Uniform practice.

may be, to the best of his, her, or their knowledge and belief, and

shall moreover give security in terms of the said Vth section.
An Act supplementary to the Act of 14th December, 1811. [See
sec. 5th of this title.]——Approved Dec. 12, 1816. Vol. III 384.
pl: pg: of
judgnnht
,‘-,'Z,‘,‘,°,‘Z,',°,:,‘
§:i':;';
min

. 31. In all cases in Justices’ Courts, commenced against joint ob
hgors or promisors, if any one or more of them shall make it appear
to the satisfaction of the Court, that he, she, or they signed said ob
ligation as a security, or securities only, it shall be the duty of the
Justice to enter up judgment against him, her, or them, as such, and
award execution in the same manner, which when satisﬁed by such
who -hm" security, or out of their property, he, she, or they shall have the con
beivisﬁtwofit
ha I!
trol and beneﬁt of said
.
execution,
.
for the purpose of remuneratmg
.

;i!i'iii'i]i..i',“Zn him, her, or themselves, out of their principal in the same manner as
51:32‘ it they had been security on the stay of execution—Provz'ded, judg
ment and execution shall be against the principal also.

An Act to extend the powers of Sheriﬁ and Constables in certain cases.
Approved Dec. 19, 1818.

' See. I.
Cunstlble

Vol. III. 168.

[“Judiciary,” sec. 87.]

32. Sec. II.

It shall be lawful for any Constable, and he is

FJf;:f,,'f:' hereby required, in all cases where a bail or criminal process is plac
{',',Q,"ﬂ,‘]];'; ed in his hands, and the person against whom the same may be, is
C°‘""Ymoving about from one district to another, to serve the said process
in any district within the County in which he may be Constable.

Sec. III.

[“County Officers,” sec. 28.]

Act to amend the Judiciary Act of this State, so far as respects Jus
tices of the Peace.—Approved Dec. 9, 1819. Vol. III. 386.
,,,,.;.,,,,,,,,y

33.

From and after the passage of this Act, it shall and may be

§?§‘,]§‘,;,“““' lawful for all and every Justice of the Peace in this State, on appli
g];io';'iig;;:_ cation of any non-resident of the County or State, for any civil pro
cuntheoout cess, to require said non-residents to deposit the cost, or give sulﬁ
cient security for the same, any law, usage, or custom to the contra
ry notwithstanding.

An Act to regulate and establish an umform practice’ in Justices’
Courts.--Approved Dec. 9, 1819. Vol. III. 386.
The practice

34. See. I.‘ From and after the ﬁrst day of January next, the pro

{§‘.,:‘,‘,';"f,}’,',h ceedings in the Justices’ Courts shall be uniform throughout the
be uniform. State_

Firstterm. 35. Sec. II. The ﬁrst term shall be deemed and considered as the

appearance term, when the case shall be docketed on what shall be
called the appearance docket, and on the defendant failing to appear,
Rules vs. J. P. and Constable—'Open accounts.

judgment shall be entered by default as in the Superior Court, and
at the second term, unless there is a sufficient showing, judgment 3°°°"‘“°""
shall be entered up: Provided nevertheless, the party or parties shall P'°'“.“
be entitled to an appeal agreeably to the Judiciary law now in force
in this State.
,
36. Sec. III. All Justices of the Peace shall have power, in all Ml! Ki" ‘
cases of debt or liquidated demand, to give judgment for any sum biiiglllgiifm
not exceeding $30, exclusive of interest and cost.

i§i:i. “'

An Act more eﬂectually to compel Justices 0}‘ the Peace and Consta
bles to pay over monies received or collected by them in their oil
cial capacities.—Approved Dec. 22, 1820. Vol. IV. 203.
37. Justices of the Peace shall be so far considered ofﬁcers of Msyboruh
the Superior Court, as to be subject to be ruled under similar regu- §‘i',,';°§’,:,‘,"°
lations as are customarily pursued in relation to any other oﬂicer of §>5,';“";_Y
said Court, when they shall refuse or neglect to pay over any mon
eys which they may have received or collected in their official ca
pacity."“1
38. Sec. II. Constables shall be subject to be ruled by' their re- Cmmblﬂ
spective Justices’ Courts, and compelled to give an account of their gs-{hl;oJr\:-ilk’!
actings and doings, or pay over monies which they may have re-ny“.
ceived or collected in their oﬁicial capacity, under the same regula

tions as are pursued in the Superior Court, in relation to officers of
said Court.

An Act to provide a more easy and convenient mode of proving open
accounts, so as to make them em'dence in Justices’ Courts.—Ap
proved 26th Dec. 1827. Vol. IV. 221.
39. VVhereas, the practice now pursued by the diﬂ‘erent Justices’
Courts in this State, of requiring open accotmts to be proven in open Pmlubb"
Court in order to make them evidence, is found in many instances to
be highly inconvenient; for remedy whereof,
Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the passage of
this Act, in any suit which may be instituted in a Justicc’s Court gfl’f,','u‘f;
within this State, upon an open account against any party who may Jlmiws
have removed without the jurisdictional limits of the County in iiii.u3o'.l‘.ii;'r

which such account was contracted, or who may reside without the i.“:..’;i,t;'.‘;n".*
County in Which the account was contracted, the said account may ""’“'
be proven by a written affidavit before any oﬂicer authorized to ad
ministeran oath ; and when so proven, shall be received in evidence
_upon the trial of said suit, as though the same had been proven in open
Court; Provided however, that if the defendant will make an aﬂida—
Proviso

'Amended. See Act of 1339, see. 43.

20 per cent. damages for refusal to pay over.

" Judiciary," Art. XVIL “_Oﬂicc'rs of Court," sees. 380, 384.

(1.) May be ruled for money paid on notes in his hands before judgment. 6 Ga. Rep.
Constables’ receipt>—-Certiorari.

vit in Writing, denying the justice and fairness of the whole or any
part of the said account, the said Court shall not give judgment for
so n1uch thereof as may be so traversed or controverted, unless sup
ported by other proof.

‘‘"‘"““I
~- Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
mm
are hereby repealed.
An Act to make Constables elective by the people, and the mode of
taking their bonds, and to point out their duty in certain. cases.—
Approved December 22, 1829. Vol. IV. 407.
Secs. I. II and III. [See County Officers, see. 55.]
,'::*;‘m"°f§inPd‘ 40. Sec. IV. Whenever notes for collection shall be placed in the
mmntﬂ-r hands of the Constable, it shall be his duty to grant receipts for the
moneycol~
ma-u.
same, and pay over the amount when collected to the plaintill, or his,
her, or their agent or attorney, unless there should be conﬂicting
claims, it shall then be the duty of the Constable to report the same
to the next J ustice’s Court of said district, subject to the order of said
Court.
Sec. V. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act are
hereby repealed.
An Act for the recovery of costs in Justices’ Courts in certain cases.
Approved Dec. 26, 1831. Pam. 140.
41. See. I. From and after the passage of this Act, in all cases‘
carried up by writ of certiorari* from a Justice's Court, to the Supe
rior Court, and the said certiorari shall be sustained by the said Court,
and the proceedings in the Court below set aside, without further
order; and in all cases carried up in like manner from a Justice’s
mrﬂomi7- Court to the Superior Court as aforesaid, and the writ of certiorari
|~_ntble_if|:er~ shall be sustamed, and a new trial ordered, the plaintifff in certiorzwi,
(4)918 l’\.'CB\~
§1§,‘,,',1_“"’“"‘ provided he ﬁnally succeeds in his cause, shall recover of the defend

ant all cost that he or she may have been compelled to pay and lay
out before a certiorari could be granted.
Bxecutionto 42. Sec. II. It shall be the duty of the Justices of the Peace in
iaue fol‘
M
all such cases, as are mentioned m the foregomg section, to issue ex
ecution in the name of the prevailing party, for all costs that may
have accrued in the said case.
Sec. III. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act, are
hereby repealed.
An Act to amemlrm Act more eﬂectually to compel Justices ofthe Peace
and Constables to pay over monies received or collected by them, in
their ojﬁciul capacitr/, passerl 22d Dec. 1820.—Assented to 21st

December, 1839.
43. See. I.

Pam. 140.

Be it enacted, That the Justices of the Peace shall

& ‘As to ngode of carrying up a case by ccrtiorari, see "Judiciary," Art. V. “ Certiorari,
c." sec. 2 8.
Rules vs. Co-obligors, how served—Servicc 9 days before Court-1’riuci3:al & Inclorscr.

be so far considered oiﬁcers of the Superior Court as to be subject to ;',-,,£,-, ';‘_:{=,‘,’:
be ruled under similar regulations as are customarily pursued in rela- er om-wt--,
tion to any other ofﬁcer of said Court, when they shall refuse or
neglect to pay over any monies which they may have received or
collected, in their otﬁcial capacity ; Provided, that in case the rule
cannot be served upon the Justice or Justices during the term of the
Superior Court at which the rule is granted, that it may be lawful to gmd sen-_-d
serve the same during the vacation, and be held and considered re- m ""‘“""
turnable to the next term of said Court, any law to the contrary not
withstanding.

An Act to authorize Constables of this State to serve processes, and

to perform other uclspcrtuining to their oﬂice, t'nun_1/r1istrict,'i1t cer
tain cases t/zercin. spoc1ﬁed.—Assented to 22d December,‘ 1840.
Pam. 54.

44. See. I.

Be it enacted, That from and after the ﬁrst day ofln css*uf

January next, in all cases where suit or suis are commenced in a11y(°.i1:i‘i:'t‘iti,i':'
of the Justices’ Courtsof this State, against any joint obligors or §',‘,1’_'e’,“,'_,',:,_

promisors, it shall be lawful tor the Constable of the district in which 1:: ‘,,',‘=‘n'3,‘c,
such suit or suits are commenced, to serve all processes on all of the
parties, and do all other legal acts which may be required of them,
in the progress of such suit or suits in any district or districts in the
County in which such suit or suits may be commenced.
Sec. II. And be it further enacted, That all laws and parts of
laws to the contrary be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to authorize Constables to serve summons nine days bcfore

the sitting of the Court to which they are made retumable.-—-As
sented to Nov. 24, 1841.

45. Sec. 1.

Pam. 144.

Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of :,‘j,';",','e°f""_

this Act, it shall be lawful tor the Constables in this State to serve ;:r33;‘>,':‘*
all summons to them directed, nine days before the sitting of the
'
Court twwhich they are made returnable: Provided, the same shall
have been issued and bear date ten days previous to the sitting of the
Court to which they are made returnable ; any law, usage or custom
to the contrary notwithstanding.

An Act to require all endorsers [endorsees] to sue the principal in
his, her or their district.--Assented to Dec. 10, 1841.
46. See. I.

Pam. 129.

Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of }",'§',§T: M

this Act, that in all cases where any person or persons shall endorse §,',’f,‘:‘};‘."°'
,a note or notes, it shall not be lawful for the endorsee to sue the endor- mkw
ser, where the principal and endorser live in the same County, with
out ﬁrst sueing the principal in his, her or their district: Provided
always, that nothing in this Act shall prevent the endorser being
sued in the same action and the same district with the maker; and
provided, that this Act shall only apply to Justices’ Courts.
An Act to authorize dejendants in Execution to point out any prop
erty belonging to them in their possessi0n.—Assented to Dec. 27,
1842. Pam. 85.
Defendant
any point
out land or
lolrool.

47. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, the defendants in executions arising in Justices’ Courts, shall
have the right to point out to the levying officer, either land or ne
groes, in the possession of the defendant: Provided, however, noth

ing shall so be construed in this Act, to restrain the oﬂicer from levy
ing such execution on a sufficient amount of property to satisfy the
same.
Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to alter, repeal and amend so much of the 21st section qfa-n
Act entitled an Act to alter and amend the several Judiciary Act:
now in_/brce in this State, so /Err as relates to Justices’ Courts, approv

ed December 14th, 1811, which requires Constables to advertise all
intended sales, at one or more ofthe most public places in the County.
Assented to Dec. 27, 1842. Pam. 55.
Advertise
ment of
00lll&l)lﬂ'
odes.

48. Ste. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, so much of the above recited Act as requires Constables to
advertise all intended sales at one or more of the most public places
in the County, be and the same is hereby repealed; and in lieu
thereof, that hereafter it shall be the duty of the Constables of this
State, to advertise all intended sales, by them to be made, at three
or more of the most public places in their proper districts.*
Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws mﬂitating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.
An Act to declare and make certain the Law of this State in relation
to the jurisdiction q Justices’ Courts, in certain cases.-Assented
to Dec.26, 1842. Pam. 113.
I’Vhereas, it has been of late, held and considered in some parts of
this State, that the Act of 1811, relating to Justices’ Courts, ‘and
authorizing Justices of the Peace in certain cases, to give judgment
in several cases on the same day between the same parties, and in
favor of the same plaintifff ; and when the’ aggregate amount of such
judgments exceeds the sum of thirty dollars, &,c.; is contrary to
the Constitution of the State as it then existed, and is thereforee of no
authority; and whereas, it is right and proper, that the law in this
particular should be made certain according to its long construction
and understanding,
‘For Acts authorizing Constables in certain cases to levy on property of Sheriff, see
"Judiciary.” sec. 205.
Suit on several notes—Set-off.

49. See. I. Be it thereforee eriacted, That in all cases when any Sum!
bond, note, account or other agreement, (gaming debts excepted,)ii:::e:r°§$
which in its original exceeded the sum of thirty dollars, but has been 1%’, {’§’,,,,,

reduced by bond or bonds, note or notes, although of equal dates, °'°'"'
and payable at the same time, to a sum or sums, under or of thirty
dollars each, that then, and in every such case, it shall and may be law
ful
for any
any such
person
or or
persons,
or haveor in
his, herasorafore-I
their
hands,
note
notes, who
bond has
or bonds,
accounts
said, to bring suit thereon in the Justices’ Court, as in other cases;
and in such case the Justice or Justices are hereby authorized to
give judgment as in other cases, any opinion, usage, or construction
to the contrary notwithstanding.

An Act to regulate Justices’ Courts in cases of set-oﬂ's.—Assented
to Dec. 27, 1842. Pam. 160.
50. SEC. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of this ‘Seward
Act, in all cases in the Justices’ Courts of this State, where the W
demand or claims of the defendant is greater in amount, and exceed
the plaintifff ’s demand, it shall be the duty of the Justices to allow
a set-off, as is now by law allowed and pointed out, and give judg- if: .r::i.

ment against the plaintifff, in favor of the defendant: Provided, that
the balance in favor of said defendant, does not exceed the sum of
thirty dollars, including both principal and interest.
51. Sec. II.

In all cases where the defendant’s demands or claim Mayor an

exceeds the sum of thirty dollars in balance, then it shall be the mm
duty of the Justices to enter a credit in favor of the plaintifff, for the
amount of his debt on the defendant’s claim.
52. Sec. III. When the claim of the defendant is an open ac- :)Pu':L"
count, the Justices may allow such open account to be proven in
Court: Provided, that neither of the parties shall be allowed to prove Proviso.
their accounts, by their own oath, in any sum over, thirty dollars.
Sec. IV. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.

Statutes omitted as obsolete, repealed or superseded.

Provin

ci Act of 1760, Watk. 63; Act of 1789, IVatlc. 413; of 1797,
Vol. I. 287; of 1801, Vol. II. 17; 1842, (four months sessions.)
Pam. 685 1843, Pam. 119.]


