PART II.

OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

TITLE I. Of their form.

~II. Of the time of commencing them.
III. Of the parties.

IV. Of the place of trial.
V. Of the manner of commencing them.
.VI. Of the pleadings.

VII. Of the provisional remedies.
VIII. Of the trial and judgment.

IX. Of the execution of the judgment. I
X. Of the costs.

XI. Of appeals.

XII. Of the miscellaneous proceedings.
XIII. Actions in particular cases.
XIV. Provisions relating to existing suits.
XV. General provisions.

TITLE I.

FORM OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

SEC. 92. Distinction between actions at law and suits in equity
abolished.
93. Parties, how designated.
94. Actions on Judgments.
95. Feigned issues abolished.

SEO. 92. The distinction between actions at law and suits in equity. ,

and the forms of all such actions and suits, heretofore existing, are abolished ;, and there shall be in this State, hereafter, but one form of action
for the enforcement or protection of private rights and the redress of private wrongs, which shall be denominated a civil action.

SEC. 93. In such action, the part com laining shall be known as the
plaintifff, and the adverse arty as t e de endant.

SEO. 94. N 0 action sha I be brought upon a judgment rendered in any

Court in this State, except a Court of Trial Justice, between the same par- J

ties, without leave of the Court, for good cause shown, on notice to the adverse party; and no action on a judgment rendered by a Trial Justice
shall be brought in the same County within five years after its rendition, except in case of his death, resignation, incapacity to act, or removal from the Count , or that the process was not personally served on
the defendant, or on a l the defendants, or in case of the death of some
of the parties, or where the docket or record of such judgment is or
shall have been lost or destroyed. .

SEC. 95. Feigned issues are abolished; and instead thereof, in the cases
where the power now exists to order a feigned issue, or when a question

of fact, not put in issue by the pleadin , is to be tried by a jury, an order for the trial may be made, stating istinctly and plainly the question
of fact tolbe tried; and such order shall be the only authority necessary
for a tria .

TITLE IL
TIME or COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I. Actions generally.
II. For the recovery of real property.
III. Other than for the recovery of real property.
IV. General provisions.

CHAPTER I.

SEC. 96. Repeal of existing limitations.
97. Time for commencing actions, etc.

SEC. 96. The provisions of this title shall not extend to actions already
commenced, or to cases where the right of action has already accrued;
but the statutes now in force shall be applicable to such cases, according 4
to the subject of the action, and without regard to the form.

SEC. 97. Civil actions can only be commenced within the periods pre‘ scribed in this title, after the cause of action shall have accrued, except ‘

where, in special cases, a different limitation is prescribed by statute, and
in the cases mentioned in Section ninety-six.

But the objection that the action was not commenced within the time
limited can only be taken by answer.

CHAPTER II.

SEC. 98. When the State will not sue.
99. When action cannot be brought by grantee from the State.
100. When action by the State or their grantees to be brought within
E twenty years.
101. Seizin within twenty years, when necessary.
102. Seizin within twenty years, when necessary in action or defense
founded on title, &c.
103. Action after entry, or right of entry.
104. Possession, when presumed. Occupation, when deemed under
legal title.
105. Occupation under written instrument, &c.
106. Adverse possession under written instrument, &c.

107. Premises actually occu ied, held adversely.

108. Adverse possession un er claim of title not written.

109. Relation of landlord and tenant, as affecting adverse possession.
110. Descent cast—eifect of.

111. Persons under disability. 7

SEC. 98. The State will not sue any person for or in res ct to any
real property, or the issues or profits thereof, by reason of t e right or
title of the State to the same, unless:

1. Such right or title shall have accrued within forty years before any
action or other proceedin for the same shall be commenced ; or unless,

2. The State, or those om whom it claims, shall have received the

rents and profits of such real property, or of some part thereof, within
the space of forty.years.

SEC. 99. No action shall be brought for, or in respect to, real property, by ,
any person claiming by virtue of letters patent or grants from the State, un- ,
less the same might have been commenced by the State as herein specified, t

in case such patent or grant had not been issued or made.

SEC. 100. When letters patent or‘ grants of real property shall have 1
been issued or made by the State, and the same shall be declared void ,
by the determination of a competent Court, rendered upon an allega- S

tion of a fraudulent suggestion, orconcealment, or forfeiture, or mistake,
or ignorance of a material fact, or wrongful detaining, or defective title,
in such case an action for the recovery of the premises so conveyed may
be brought either by the State, or by any subsequent patentee or grantee
of the premises, his heirs or assigns, within twenty years after such determinationwas made, but not after that period.

SEC. 101. No action for the recovery of real pro erty, or for the recovery of the possession thereof, shall be maintaine , unless it appear that
the plaintiii, his ancestor, predecessor or grantor was seized or possessed

» of the premises in question within twenty years before the commencement of such action.

SEC. 102. No cause of action, or defense to an action, founded u on
the title to real property, or to rents or services out of the same, shal be
effectual, unless it appear that the person prosecuting the action or
making the defense, or under whose title the action is prosecuted or the
defense is made, or the ancestor, predecessor or grantor of such person,
was seized or possessed of the premises in question within twenty years
before the committing of the act in respect to which such action is prosecuted or defense made.

SEC. 103. No entry upon real estate shall be deemed sumcient or valid,
as a claim, unless an action be commenced thereupon within one year
after the making of such entry, and within twenty. years from the time

‘when the right to make such entry descended or accrued.

SEC. 104. In every action for the recovery of real property, or the
possession thereof, the person establishing a legal title to the premises
shall be presumed to have been possessed thereof within the time required by law ; and the occupation of such premises by any other person
shall be deemed to have been under and in subordination to the legal title, unless it appear that such premises have been held and possessed adversely to such legal title for twenty years before the commencement of
such action. a

SEC. 105. Whenever it shall appear that the occupant, or those under
whom he claims, entered into the possession of premises under claim of
title, exclusive of any other right, founding such claim upon a written instrument, as being a conveyance of the premises in question, or upon the
decree or judgment of a competent Court, -and that there has been a con-.
tinued occupation and possession of the premises included in such instrument, decree or judgment, or of some part of such remises, under such
claim, for twenty years, the premises so included s all be deemed to have
been held adversely; except that where.the premises so included consist
of a tract divided into lots, the ion of one lot shall not be deemed
a possession of any other lot of t e same tract.

SEC. 106. For the put of constituting an adverse possession, by
any person claimin a tit e founded upon a written instrument or a judgment or decree, lan shall be deemed to have been possessed and occupied
in the following cases:

1. Where it has been usually cultivated or im roved;

2. Where it has been protected by a substantia enclosure;

3. Where, although not inclosed, it has been used for the supply of
fuel or of fencing timber, for the purposes of husbandry or the ordinary
use of the occupant;

4. Where a known farm or a single lot has been partly improved, the
portion of such farm or lot that may have been left not cleared or not inclosed, according to the usual course and custom of the adjoining country,
shall be deemed to have been occupied for the same length of time as the
part improved and cultivated.

SEC. 107. Where it shall appear that there has been an actual continued occupation of premises, under a claim of title, exclusive of any
other right, but not founded upon a written instrument or a 'udgment or
decree, the premises so actually ‘occupied,°and no other, sha 1 be deemed
to have been held adversely.

SEC. 108. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession, by a
person claiming title not founded upon a written instrument or a judgment or decree, land shall be deemed to have been possessed and occupied
in the following cases only:

Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure;

Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.

SEC. 109. Whenever the relation of landlord and tenant shall have
existed between any rsons, the possession of the tenant shall be deemed
the possession of the andlord, until the expiration of twenty years from
the termination of the tenancy ; or, where there has been no written
lease, until the expiration of twenty years from the time of the last payment of rent, notwithstanding that such tenant may have acquired another
title, or may have claimed to hold adversely to his landlord. But such
presumptions shall notbe made after the periods herein limited.

SEC. 110. The right of a person to the possession of any real property
shall not be impaired or affected by a descent being cast in consequence
of the death of a person in possession of such property.

SEC. 111. If a person entitled to commence any action for the recovery

, of real property, or to make an entry or defense founded on the title to

real property, or to rents or services out of the same, be, at thetime such
title shall first descend or accrue, either1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or,

2. Insane; or,

3. Imprisonment on a criminal charge, or in execution upon conviction
of a criminal offense for a term less than for life ; the time during which
such disability shall continue shall not be deemed any portion of the time
in this chapter limited for the commencement of such action or the
making of such entry or defense; but such action may be commenced, or

entry or defense made, after the period of twenty years, and within ten
years after the disabili shall cease, or after the death of the person entitled who shall die un er such disabilit ° but such action shall not be

commenced, or entry or defense made, ter that period.

CHAPTER III.

TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS OTHER THAN FOR THE RECOVERY OF
REAL PROPERTY.

SEC. 112. Limitation prescribed.
113. Twenty years.
114. Six years.
115. Three years.
116. Two years.
117. One year.
118. Action upon a current account.
119. Action for penalties.
120. Action for other relief.
121. Action by the people.

SEC. 112. The periods prescribed in Section ninety-seven for the com- 1
,mencement of actions other than for the recovery of real property shall 2

hes” f°i’1°§' “iv 1.
EC. . it in twen years: I_

1. An action upon a ju gment or decree of any Court of the United
States, or of any State or erritory within the United States.

2. An actioit‘; ulpon a sealed instrument.

SEC. 114. it in six ears:

1. An action upon aycontract obligation or liabilit , express or implied, excepting those mentioned in Section one hundr and thirteen.

2% Afn action upon a liability created by statute, other than a penalty
or or eiture.

3. An action for trespass upon real property.

4. An action for taking, detaining or injuring any goods or chattels,
including actions for the specific recovery of persona property.

5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other injury to the
person or rights of another, not arising on contract, and not hereinafter
enumerate . , .

6. An action for relief on the ground of fraud, in cases which heretofore were solely cognizable by the Court of Chancery, the cause of action
in such case not to be deemed to have accrued until the discovery by the
aggrievcladfpaw thcil facts constituting the fraud.

EC. . 1 m t ree ears:

1. An action against a Slieriff, Coroner or Constable, upon a liability
incurred by the doing of an act in his ofiicial capacity, and in virtue of
his office, or by the omission of an official duty, including the non-payment of money collected upon an execution. But this Section shall not
apply to an action for an escape.

2. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture, where the

action is 'given to the party aggrieved, or to such party and the State,
except where the statute imposing it prescribes a different limitation.

SEC. 116. Within two years:

1. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery or false imprisonment.

2. An action upon a statute, for a forfeiture or penalty to the State.

SEC. 117. Within one year: .

1. An action against a Sheriff or other oiiicer, for the escape of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process. 2

SEC. 118. In an action brought to recover a balance due upon a mutual,
open and current account, where there have been reciprocal demands between the parties, the cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued
from the time of the last item proved in the account on either side.

SEC. 119. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture given,
in whole or in part, to any person who will prosecute for the same, must
be commenced within one year after the commission of the offense; and
if the action be not commenced within the year by a private party, it
may be commenced within two years therafter, in behalf of the State,
by the Attorney-General or the Solicitor of the Circuit where the offense
was committed. ~ ,

SEC. 120. An action for relief not hereinbefore provided. for must be
commenced within ten years after the cause of action shall have accrued.

SEC. 121. The limitations prescribed in this chapter shall apply to actions brought in the name of the State, or for its benefit, in the same!

manner as to actions by private parties.

CHAPTER IV.

GENERAL PROVISIONS AS TO THE TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS.

SEC. 122. When action deemed commenced.
123. Exception, defendant out of State.
124. Exception as to person under disabilities.
125. Death of person entitled before limitation expires..
126. Suits by aliens.
127. Where judgment reversed.
128. Stay of action by injunction, &c.
129. Disability must exist when right accrued.
130. Two or more disabilities.
131. This title, when not to apply.
132. The like.

133. New promise must be in writing.

SEC. 122. An action is commenced as to each defendant when the sumF mons is served on him, or on a co—defendant, who is a joint contractor, or

otherwise united in interest with him. An attempt to commence an action
is deemed equivalent to the commencement thereof, within the meaning
of this title, when the summons is delivered, with the intent that it shall
be actually served, to the Sheriff or other officer of the County in which
the defendants or one of them usually or last resided ; or, if a corporation be defendant, to the Sheriff or other officer of the County in which
such corporation was established by law, or where its general business
was transacted, or where it kept an office for the transaction of business.

She. 123. If, when the cause of action shall accrue against any person,
he shall be out of the State, such action may be commenced within the
terms herein respectively limited, after the return of such person into
this State; and if, after such cause of action shall have accrued, such
person shall depart from and reside out of this State, or remain continuously absent therefrom for the space of one year or more, the time of his
absence shall not be deemed or taken as any part of the time limited for
the commencement of such action.

SEC. 124. If a person entitled to bring an action mentioned in the
last chapter, except for a nalty or forfeiture, or against a Sheriff or
otliler officer, for an escape, at the time the cause of action accrued,
eit er,

1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or,
2. Insane; or,

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge; or, in execution under the sentence of a criminal Court, for a term_ less than his natural life; the time
of such disability is not a part of the time limited for the commencement
of the action; except that the period within which the action must be
brought cannot be extended more than five years by any such disability,
except infancy; nor can itbe so extended in any case longer than one

I year after the disability ceases.

SEC. 125. If a person entitled to bring an action die before the expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause of
action survive, an action may be commenced by his representatives, after
the expiration of that time, and within one car from his death. If a
person against whom an action may be brought die before the expiration
of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause of action
survive, an action may be commenced against his executors or administrator after the expiration of that time, and within one year after the
issuing of letters testamentary or of administration.

SEC. 126. When a person shall be an alien subject or citizen of a
country at war with the United States, the time of the continuance of the
war shall not be part of the period limited for the commencement of the
action. «

SEC. 127. If an action shall be commenced within the’ time rescribed
therefore, and a 'udgment therein be reversed on appeal, the p aintiff, or,
if he die and t e cause of action survive, his heirs or representatives,
may commence a new action within one year after the reversal.

SEC. 128. When the commencement of an action shall be stayed by
injunction or statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance of the
injunction or prohibition shall not be part of the time limited for the
commencement of the action.

SEC. 129. N 0 person shall avail himself of a disability, unless it
existed when his right of action accrued.

SEC. 130. When two or more disabilities shall co-exist at the time the
right of action accrues, the limitation shall not attach until they all be
removed.

SEC. 131. This title shall not affect actions to enforce the payment of bills, notes, or other evidences of debt, issued by moneyed corporations,
or issued or put in circulation as money.

SEC. 132. This title shall not affect actions against ‘Directors or stockholders of a moneyed corporation, or banking associations, to recover a

enalty or forfeiture imposed, or to enforce a liability created by law;
but such actions must be brought within six years after the discovery, by
the aggrieved party,hof the facts teulpon which the penalty or forfeiture
attached, or the lia i 'ty was crea .

SEC. 133. No acknowledgment or promise shall be sufficient evidence
of a new or continuing contract, whereby to take the case out of the
operation of this title, unless the same be contained in some writing
signed by the party to be charged ‘thereby; but this Section shall not
alter the effect of any payment of principal or interest.

TITLE III.

PARTIES TO CIVIL ACTIONS.

SEC. 134. Party in interest to sue. Action by grantee of land held
adversely.

135. Assignment of thing in action.

136. Actions by executor, trustee, &c.

137. Actions by and against married women.

138. Infants, actions by and against. '

139. Guardian, how appointed.

140. Who may be plaintifffs.

141. Who may be defendants.

142. One or more may sue or defend for all.

143. One action against the different parties to bills and notes.
144. Action, when not to abate. -.

145. Court to decide controversy, &c. Interpleading.

SEC. 134. Every action must be prosecuted in_ the name of the real
party in interest, except as otherwise provided in Section one hundred
and thirty-six; but this Section shall not be deemed to authorize the assignment of a thing in action not arising out of contract. But an action may be maintained by a grantee of land in the name of the grantor,
or his or her heirs or legal representatives, when the grant or grants are
void by reason of the actual possession of a person claiming under a
title adverse to that of the grantor at the time of the delivery of the
grant, and the plaintifff shall be allowed to prove the facts to bring the
case within this provision.

SEC. 135. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action
by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-off or other defense
existing at the time of, or before notice of, the assignment; but this Section shall not appl to a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange,
transferred in goo faith, and upon good consideration, before due.

SEC. 136. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust,

- or a erson expressly authorized b statute, may sue, without joining
' with im the person for whose bene t the action is prosecuted. A trust% of an express trust, within the meaning of this Section, shall be construed to include a person with whom or in whose name a contract is
made for the benefit of another. SEC. 137. When a married woman is a party, her husband must be
joined with her, except that,

1. When the action concerns her separate property, she may sue or be
sued alone: Provided, That neither her husband nor his ropert shall
be liable for any recovery against her in any such suit, hut ju gment
may be enforced b execution against her sole and separate estate 111 the
same manner as i she were sole.

2. When the action is between herself and her husband, she may sue
or be sued alone; and in no case need she prosecute or defend by a guardian or next friend.

SEC. 138. When an infant is a party, he must appear by guardian, who
my be appointed by the Court in which the action is prosecuted, or by
a udge thereof, or a Probate Judge. '

SEC. 139. The guardian shall be appointed as follows :

1. When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of the infant, if
he be of the age of fourteen years; or, if under that age, upon the application of his neral or testamentary guardian, if he has any, or of a relative or frien of the infant; if made by a relative or friend of an infant, notice thereof must first be given to such guardian, if he has one ;
if he has none, then to the rson with whom such infant resides.

2. When the infant is de endant, upon the application of the infant, if
he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within twenty days after
service of the summons. If he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then upon the a plication of any other party to the action, or of a relative or friend 0 the infant, after notice of such application being first given to the general or testamentary guardian of such
infant, if he has one within this State; if he has none, then to the infant himself,  over fourteen years of age, and within the State; or, if
under that age, and within the State, to the person with whom such infant resides. And in actions for the partition of real property, or for the
foreclosure of a mortgage or other instrument, when an infant defendant
resides out of this State, or is temporarily absent therefrom, the plaintifff
may apply to the Court in which the action is pending, at any stated or
special term thereof, and will be entitled to an order designating some
suitable person to be the guardian for the infant defendant, for the purof the action, unlm the infant defendant, or some one in his behalf, within a number of days after the service of a copy of the order,
which number of days shall be in the said order specified, shall procure

' to be appointed a guardian for the said infant, and the Court shall give

special directions in the order for the manner of the service thereof, which
ma be upon the infant.

d in case an infant~defendant having an interest in the event of the
action shall reside in any State with which there shall not be a regular
communication by mail, on such fact satisfactorily appearing to the
Court, the Court may appoint a guardian ad litem for such absent infant party, for the purpose of protecting the right of such infant in said
action, and on such guardian ad litem process, pleadings and notices in

the action may be served inthe like manner as upon a party residing in
this State. a

SEC. 140. All persons having an interest in the subject of the action,
and in obtaining t e relief demanded, may be joined as plaintifffs, except
as otherwise provided in this title.

SEC. 141. Any person may be made a defendant who has or claims an
interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintifff, or who is a necessary
party to a complete determination or settlement of the questions involved
therein; and in an action to recover the possession of real estate, the
landlord and tenant thereof may be joined as defendants; and any person
claiming title or a right of possession to real estate may be made
parties plaintifff or defendant, as the case may require, to any such
actions.

SEC. 142. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest
must be joined as plaintifffs or defendants; but if the consent of any one
who should have been joined as plaintifff cannot be obtained, he may be
made a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in the complaint; and
when the question is one of a common or general interest of many persons, or when the parties are very numerous and it may be im racticable
to bring them all before the Court, one or more may sue or de end for the
benefit of the whole. ‘

SEC. 143. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument, includin the parties tobills of exchange and promissory notes, may
all, or any of t em, be included in the same-action, at the option of the
ilaintilf.

1 SEC. 144. No action shall abate by the death, marriage, or other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the cause
of action survive or continue. In case of death, marriage, or other disability of a party, the Court, on motion, at any time within one year
thereafter, or afterwards, on a supplemental complaint, may allow the
action to be continued by or against his representative or successor in interest. In case of an other transfer of interest, the action shall be continued in the name 0 the original party, or the Court may allow the person to whom the transfer is made to be substituted in the action.

After a verdict shall be rendered in any action for a wrong, such action
shall not abate by the death of any party, but the case shall proceed
thereafter in the same manner as in cases where the cause of action now
survives by law.

At any time after the death, marriage, or other disability of the party

‘plaintifff, the Court in which an action is pending, upon notice to such

persons as it may direct, and upon application of any erson ag rieved, may,
in its discretion, order that t e action be deemed a ated, un ess the same
be continued by the proper arties, within a time to be fixed by the
Court, not less than SIX mont s nor exceeding one year from the grantin of the order.

%Eo. 145. The Court may determine any controversy between the parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of
others, or by saving their rights; but when a complete determination of
the controversy cannot be had without‘ the presence of other parties, the
Court must cause them to be brought in. And when, in an action for
the recovery of real or personal property, a person not a party to the action, but having an interest ‘in the subject thereof, makes application to
the Court to be made a party, it may order him to be brought in by the
proper amendment.

A defendant against whom an action is pending upon a contract, or for
specilic, real, or personal property, may at any time before answer, upon
affidavit that a person not a party to the action, and without collusion by
him, makes against him a demand for the same debt or properéy), upon
due notice to such person and the adverse party, a ply to the urt for
an order to substitute such person in [his place, an discharge him from
liability to either party, on his depositing in Court the amount of the
debt, or delivering the property or its value to such erson as the Court
may direct; and the Court may, in its discretion, ma e the order.

TITLE IV.

OF THE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

SEC. 146. Actions to be tried where subject-matter situated.
147. Actions to be tried where cause of action arose.
148. Actions to be tried where the parties reside.
149. Changing place of trial.

SEC. 146. Actions for the following causes must be tried in the County
in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is situated, subject to the power of the Court to change the place of trial, in the cases
provided by statute: '

1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest therein,
or for the determination in any form of such right or interest, and for
injuries to real property;

2. For the artition of real property;

3. For the oreclosure of a mortgage of real property;

4. For the recovery of personal property distrained for any cause.

SEC. 147. Actions for the following causes must be tried in the County
where the cause, or some art thereof, arose, subject to the like power of
the Court to change the lace of trial, in the cases provided by statute:

1. For the recovery of? a penalty or forfeiture im by statute, except that, when it is imposed for an offense commit on a lake, river, or
other stream of water, situated in two or more Counties, the action may
be brought in any County bordering on such lake, river, or stream, and
opposite to the place where the offense was committed;

2. Against a public officer, or person specially appointed to execute his
duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office, or inst a person
who, by his command pr in his aid, shall do anything touc 'ng the duties
of such officer.

SEC. 148. In all other cases the action shall be tried in the County in
which the parties, or any of them, shall reside at the commencement of
the action; or, if none of the parties shall reside in the State, the same
may be tried in any County which the plaintifff shall designate in his complamt, subject, however, to the power of the Court to change the place of
trial, in the cases provided by statute.

SEC. 149. If the County designated for that purpose in the complaint

be not the proper County, the action may, notwithstanding, be tried
therein, unless the defendant, before the time for answering expire, demand, in writing, that the trial be had in the roper County, and the
place of trial be thereupon changed by consent 0 parties, or by order of
the Court, as is provided in this Section.

The Court may change the place -of trial in the following cases:

1. When the County designated for that purpose in the complaint is
not the proper County;

2. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be
had therein;

3. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would
be promoted b the change.

When the place of trial is changed, all other roceedings shall be had
in the County to which the place of trial is c anged, unless otherwise
provided by the consent of the parties, in writin , duly filed, or order of
the Court; and the papers shall be filed or trans erred accordingly.

TITLE V.

MANNER OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

SEC. 150. Actions, how commenced.

151. Summons, requisites of.

152. Notice to be inserted in summons. .
153. Complaint need not be served with summons.
1 54. Defendant unreasonably defending.

155. Notice of lis pendens.

156. Service of summons.

157. Return of summons.

158. Publication of summons.

159. Proceedings when part only of defendants served—partners.
160. When service by publication complete.‘

161. Proof of service.

162. When jurisdiction of action acquired.

SEC. 150. Civil actions in the Courts of Record of this State shall be
commenced b service of a summons. .

SEC. 151. he summons shall be subscribed by the plaintifff or his attorney, and directed to. the defendant, and shall require him to answer
the complaint, and serve a copy of his answer on the erson whose name
is subscribed to the summons, at a place within the State, to be therein
speciiied, in which there is a post office, within twenty days after the service of the summons, exclusive of the day of service.

SEC. 152. The plaintifff shall also insert in the summons a notice, in
substance as follows:

1. In an action arising on contract, for the recovery of money only,
that he will take judgment for a sum specified therein, if the defendant
fail to answer the complaint in twenty days after the service of the summons.

2. In other actions, that if the defendant shall fail to answer the complaint within twenty days after the service of the summons, the plaintifff
will apply to the Court for the relief demanded in the complaint.

SEC. 153. A copy of the complaint need not be served with the summons. In such case, the summons must state where the complaint is or
will be filed; and if the defendant, within twenty days thereafter, causes .
notice of appearance to be given, and, in person or by attorney, demands,
in writing, a copy of the complaint, s cifying a p ace within the State
where it may be served, a copy thereo must, within twenty days thereafter, be served accordingly; and after such service, the defendant has
twenty days to answer; but only one copy need be served on the same
attorney.

SEC. 154. In the case of a defendant against whom no personal claim
is made, the plaintifff may deliver to such defendant, with the summons, ;
a notice subscribed by the plaintifff or his attorne , setting forth the eneral object of the action, a brief description of t e property affected; by
it, if it affects specific real or personal property, and that no personal
claim is made against such defendant, in which case no copy of the complaint need be served on such defendant, unless, within the time for answering, he shall, in writing, demand the same. If a defendant on whom
such notice is served unreasonably defend the action, he shall pay costs
to the plaintifff.

SEC. 155. In an action affecting the title to real pro rty, the plaintifff,
at the time of filing the complaint, or at any time ailtirwards, or whenever a warrant of attachment, under chapter four of title seven, part
second, of this Code, shall be issued, orat any time afterwards, the plaintifff, or a defendant, when he sets up an affirmative cause of action in his

y answer and demands substantive relief, at the time of filing his answer,

or at any time afterwards, if the same be intended to affect real estate, may
file with the Clerk of each County in which the propert is situated a notice
of the pen dency of the action, containing the names of t eparties, the object
of the action, and the descri tion of the roperty in that County affected
thereby; and if the action for the oreclosure of a mortgage, such
notice must be filed twenty days before judgment, and must contain the
date of the mortgage, the parties thereto, and the time and place of recording the_same. From the time of filing only shall the pendency of
the action be constructive notice to a purchaser or encumbrancer of the
property affected thereby; and every person whose conveyance or incumrance is sixilbsequently executed or subsequently recorded shall be deemed

a subseque t purchaser or encumbrancer, and shall be bound, by all proceedings taken after the filing of such notice, to the same extent as if he
were made a party to the action. For the purposes of this Section, an
action shall be deemed to be nding from the time of filing such notice:
Provided, however, That we notice shall be of no avail, unless it shall

, be followed by the first publication of the summons, or an order therefore,
. 01' by the personal service thereof on a defendant within sixty days after
‘ such filing. And the Court in which the said action was commenced may,
in its discretion, at any time after the action shall be settled, discontinued
Or abated, as is provided in Section number one hundred and fortyfour, on application of any person aggrieved, and on good cause shown,
and on such notice as shall be directed or approved by the Court,

' order the notice authorized by this Section to be cancelled of record by
the Clerk of any County in whose office the same may have been filed or
recorded; and such cancellation shall be made by an indorsement to that

effect on the margin of the record, which shall refer to the order, and for
which the Clerk shall be entitled to a fee of twenty-five cents.

SEC. 156. The summons may be served by the Sheriff of the County
where the defendant may be found, or by any other person not a party to
the action. The service shall be made, and the summons returned, with
proof of the service, ‘to the rson whose name is subscribed thereto, with
all reasonable diligence. he person subscribing the summons may, at
his option, by an endorsement on the summons, fix a time for the service
thereof, and the "service shall then be made accordingly.

SEC. 157. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy thereof
as follows:

1. If the suit be against a cor oration, to the president or other head
of the corporation, secretary, cas ier, treasurer, a director, or managing
agent thereof; but such service can be made in respect to a foreign corporation only when it has property within this State, or the cause of action
arose therein, or where such service shall be made within this State personally u on the president, cashier, treasurer, or secretary thereof.

2. f against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such minor
personally, and also to his father, mother or guardian; or, if there be
none within the State, then to any person having the care and control of
such minor, or with whom he shall reside, or in whose service he shall be
employed.

3. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind, or
incapable of conducting his own affairs in consequence of habitual '
drunkenness, and for whom a committee or guardian has been appointed,
to such committee or guardian and to the defendant personally.

4. In all other cases, to the defendant personally.

SEC. 158. Where the person on whom the service of the summons is to
be made cannot, after due diligence, be found within the State, and that
fact appears by affidavit to the satisfaction of the Court or a Judge
thereof‘, or of the Probate Judge of the County where the trial is to be
had, and it in like manner appears that a cause of action exists against
the defendant in respect to whom the service is to be made, or that he is a
proper party to an action relating to real property in this State, such
Court or Judge may grant an order that the service be made by the
publication of a summons in either of the following cases:

1. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation, has property within
the State, or the cause of action arose therein;

2. Where the defendant, being a resident of this State, has departed
therefrom, with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of
a summons,_or keeps himself concealed therein with the like intent ;

3. Where he is not a resident of this State, but has property therein,
and the Court has jurisdiction of the subject of the action;

4. Where the subject of the action is real or personal propert in this
State, and the Defendant has or claims a lien or interest, actua or contingent, therein, or the relief demanded consists, wholly or partly, in excluding the Defendant from any interest or lien therein ;

5. Where the action is for divorce, in the cases prescribed by law.

The order must direct the publication to be made in two newspapers,
to be designated as most likely to give notice to the person to be served,
and for such length of time as may be deemed reasonable, not less than
once a week for six weeks. In case of publication, the Court or Judge

must also direct a copy of the summons and complaint to be forthwith
deposited in the post office, directed to the person to be served, at his
place of residence, unless it appear that such residence is neither known
to the party making the a plication, nor can with reasonable diligence
be ascertained by him. hen publication is ordered, personal service of
a copy of the summons and complaint, out of the State, is equivalent to
publication and deposit in the post office.

The Defendant against whom publication is ordered, or his representatives, on application and sufficient cause shown at any time before judgment, must be allowed to defend the action; and, except in an action for
divorce, the Defendant against whom publication is ordered, or his representatives, may, in like manner, upon good cause shown, he allowed to
defend after judgment, or at any time within one year after notice thereof, and within seven years after its rendition, on such terms as may be
just ; and if the defense be successful, and the judgment or any part
thereof have been collected, or otherwise enforced, such restitution may
thereupon be compelled as the Court directs; but the title to property
sold under such judgment to a purchaser in good faith shall not be
thereby affected. And in all cases where publication is made, the complaint must be first filed, and the summons, as published, must state the
time and’ place of such filing.

In actions for the foreclosure of mortgages on real estate, already instituted, or hereafter to be instituted, if any party or parties having any
interest in or lien upon such mortgaged, premises are unknown to the
Plaintiff, and the residence of such party or arties cannot, with reasonable diligence, bc ascertained by him, and suc fact shall be made to appear, by affidavit, to the Court, or to a Judge thereof, where the trial is
to be had, such Court or Judge may grant an order that the summons be
served on such unknown party or parties by publishing the same for six
weeks, once in each week successively, in a news aper printed in the
County where the premises are situated, which pub ication shall be equivalent to a personal service on such unknown party .or parties.

SEC. 159. Where the action is against two or more Defendants, and

the summons is served on one or more of them, but not on all of them, 2

the Plaintiff may proceed as follows:
1. If the actlon be against Defendants jointly indebted upon contract, he may proceed a ainst the Defendant served, unless the Court
otherwise direct; and if lie recover judgment, it may be entered against
all the Defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be enforced against the joint property of all and the separate property of the
Defendants served, and, if they are subject to arrest, against the persons
of the Defendants served; or, .

2. If the action be against Defendants severally liable, he may proceed
against the Defendants served in the same manner as if they were the
only Defendants.

3. If all the Defendants have been served, 'ud ment may be taken
against any or either of them severally, where t e laintiff would be entitled to judgment against such Defendant or Defendants, if the action
had been against them or any of them alone.

4. If the name of one or more partners shall, for any cause, have been
omitted in any action in which judgment shall have passed against the
Defendants named in the summons, and such omission shall not have

been pleaded in such action, the Plaintiff, in case the judgment therein
shall remain unsatisfied, ma by action recover of such partner separately,
upon proving his joint liabi ity, notwithstanding he may not have been
named in the original action; but the Plaintiff shall have satisfaction of
onl one judgment rendered for the same cause of action. SEC. 160. In the cases mentioned in Section one hundred and fiftyeight, the service of the summons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of the time prescribed by the order for publication.

SEC. 161. Proof of the service of the summons, and of the complaint
or notice, if an , accompanying the same, must be as follows:

1. If served y the Sheriff, his certificate thereof; or,

2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or,

3. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer, or his foreman,
or principal clerk, showing the same, and an affidavit of a deposit of a

cop of the summons in the post office, as required by law, 1f the same
sha l have been de osited; or,

4. The written a ission of the Defendant. .

In case of service otherwise than by ublication, the ‘certificate, affidavit or admission must state the time an place of the service.

SEC. 162. From the time of the service of the summons in a civil action, or the allowance of a provisional remedy, the Court is deemed to
have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all the subsequent

proceedings. A voluntary appearance of a Defendant is equivalent to
personal service of the summons upon him.

TITLE VI.
on THE PLEADINGS IN CIVIL Ac'rIoNs.

CHAPTER I. The complaint.
II. The demurrer.
III. The answer.
IV. The re ly.
V. General) rules of pleading.
VI. Mistakes and amendments.

CHAPTER I.

THE COMPLAINT.

SEC. 163. Forms of pleading.
164. Complaint.
165. Complaint, what to contain.

, SEC. 163. All the forms of pleading heretofore existing are abolished ;
and, hereafter, the forms of pleading in civil actions in Courts of Record,
and the rules by which the sufliciency of the pleadings is to be determined, are those prescribed by this Act. SEC. 164. The first pleading on the part of the Plaintiff is the complaint. ~

SEC. 165. The complaint shall contain: 1

1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the Court in which the

action is brought, the name of the County in which the Plaintiff desires f
the trial to be had, and the names of the parties to the action———Plaintiff

and Defendant.

2. A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting a cause of
action, without unnecessary repetition.

3. A demand of the relief to which the Plaintiff .-supposes himself entitled. If the recovery of money be demanded, the amount thereof shall
be stated.

CHAPTER II.
THEADEMURRER.

SEC. 166. Defendant to demur or answer.

167. When the defendant may demur.

168. Demurrer, whatto specify.

169. How to proceed if complaint be amended.

170. Objection not appearing on complaint. I
171. Objection, when waived.

SEC. 166. The only pleading on the part of the defendant is either a
demurrer or an answer. _ It must be served within twenty days after the ;
service of the copy of the complaint.

SEC. 167. The defendant may demur to the complaint when it shall :
appear upon the face thereof, either-— {
1. That the Court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant,
or the subject of the action; or, 2. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue; or,

3. That there is another action pending between the same parties, for
the same cause; or,

4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant; or,

5. That several causes of action have been improperly united ; or,

6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action. ‘

S130. 168. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds of objection to the complaint. Unless it do so, it ma be disregarded. It may i

-be taken to the whole complaint or to any of t e alleged causes of action 7

stated therein. 1

SEC. 169. If the complaint be amended, 9. copy thereof must be served
on the defendant, who must answer it within twenty days, or the plaintifff, 1
upon filing with the Clerk, on due proof of the service, and of the de- 3
fendant’s omission, may proceed to obtain judgment, as provided by Section two hundred and sixty-nine; but where an application to the Court

for judgment is necessary, eight days’ notice thereof must be given to the
defendant.

SEC. 170. When an of ‘ the matters enumerated in Section one hundred and sixty-seven 0 not appear upon the face of the complaint, the
objection ma be taken b answer.

SEC. 171. f no such 0 jection be taken either by demurrer or answer,
the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, excepting only
the objection to the jurisdiction of the Court, and the objection that the
complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

CHAPTER III.

THE ANSWER.

SEC. 172. Answer, what to contain.
173. Counter claim. Several defenses.
174. Demurrer and answer, when allowed.
175. Sham and irrelevant defenses to be stricken out.

SEC. 172. The answer of the defendant must contain:
1. A general or specific denial of each material allegation of the complaint controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or information thereof sufiicient to form a belief.

2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense or counter

claim, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition.

SEC. 173. The counterclaim mentioned in the last Section must be one
existing in favor of a defendant, and against a plaintifff, between whom a
several judgment might be had in the action, and arising out of one of

the following causes of action:
1. A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction set forth

in the complaint as the foundation of the Plaintiif’s claim, or connected
with the subject of the action.

2. In an action arising on contract, any other cause of action arising
also on contract, ‘and existing at the commencement of the action.

The Defendant may set forth b answer as many defenses and counter
claims as he may have, whether t ey be such as have been heretofore denominated legal or equitable, or both. They must each be separately
‘stated, and refer to the causes of action which the are intended to answer, in such manner that they ma be intelligibly istinguished.

SEC. 174. The Defendant may emur to one or more of several causes
of action stated in the complaint, and answer the residue.

SEC. 175. Sham and irrelevant answers and defenses may be stricken
out on motion, and upon such terms as the Court may, in their discretion,
impose.

CHAPTER IV.
THE REPLY.

SEC. 176. Reply. Demurrer to answer.
177. Motion for judgment upon answer.
178. Demurrer to reply.

SEC. 176. When the answer contains new matter constituting a coun-.
ter claim, the Plaintiff may, within twenty days, reply to such new matter, denying generally or s ecifically each‘ allegation controverted by
him, or any knowledge or in ortnation thereof’ suilicient to form a belief;
and he may allege, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition,
any new matter not inconsistent with the complaint, constituting a defense to such new matter in the answer; and the Plaintiff may in all cases
demur to an answer containing new matter, where, upon its face, it does
not constitute a counterclaim or defense; and the Plaintiff may demur to
one or more of such defenses or counterclaims, and reply to the residue
of the counterclaims.

And in other cases, where an answer contains new matter constituting
a defense by way of avoidance, the Court may, in its discretion, on the
Defendant’s motion, require a reply to such new matter; and in that
case the reply shall be subject to the same rules as a reply to a counter
claim.

SEC. 177. If the answer contain a statement of new matter constituting

a counterclaim, and the Plaintiff fail to reply or demur thereto within ‘

the time prescribed by law, the defendant may move, on a notice of not
less than ten days, for such judgment as he is entitled to upon such statement; and if the case require it, a writ of inquiry of damages may be
issued.

SEC. 178. If a reply of the Plaintiff to an defense set up by the answer of the Defendant be insufhcient, the De endant may demur thereto,
and shall state the grounds thereof. '

CHAPTER V.
GENERAL RULES or PLEADING.

SEC. 179. Pleadings to be subscribed and verified.

180. Pleadings, how verified.

181. How to state an account in pleading.

182. Pleadings to be liberally construed.

183. Irrelevant or redundant matter to be stricken out, and indefinite matter made more definite.

184. Judgment, how to be leaded.

185. Conditions precedent, ow to be pleaded.

186. Private statutes, how to be pleaded.

187. Libel and slander, how stated in complaint.

188. Answer in such cases.

189. Answer in actions to recover roperty distrained for damage.
190. What causes of action may e joined.

191. Allegation not denied, when to be deemed true.

SEC. 179. Every pleading in a Court of Record must be subscribed. by

the party or his attorney; and when any pleading is verified, every subse- 

quent pleadinrg, except a demurrer, must be verified also.
See. 180. h

e verification must be to the effect that the same is true ,

to the knowledge of the person making it, except as to those matters a

1 mining its effect, its allegations shall

stated on information and belief, and, as to those matters, he believes it
to be true; and must be by the affidavit of the party, or, if there be several parties united in interest, and pleading together, by one at least of
such parties acquainted with the facts, if such party be within the County
where the attorney resides, and capable of making the affidavit. The
affidavit may also be made by the agent or attorney, if the action or defense be founded upon a written instrument for the payment of money
only, and such instrument be in the possession of the a t or attorney,
or if all the material allegations of the leading be wit in the personal
knowledge of the agent or attorney. hen the pleading is verified by
any other person than the party, he shall set forth in the affidavit his
knowledge, or the grounds of his belief on the subject, and the reasons
why it is not made by the party. When a corporation is a party, the
verification may be made b any officer thereof; and when the State, or
any officer thereof in its be alf, is a party, the verification may he made
by an person acquainted with the facts. The verification may be omitted w en an admission of the truth of the allegation might subject the
party to prosecution for felony. And no pleading can be used in a criminal prosecution against the party, as a proof of a fact admitted or alleged in such pleading: Provided, That the verification of any pleading
in any Court of Record in this State may be omitted in all cases where
the party called upon to verify would be privileged from testifying as a
witness to the truth of any matter denied by such pleading.

SEE). 181. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading the items of an account therein alleged; but he shall deliver to the
adverse party, within ten days after a demand therefore in writing, a copy
of the account, which, if the pleading is verified, must be verified by his
own oath, or that of his agent or attorney, if within the personal knowledge of such agent or attorney, to the effect that he believes it to be
true, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The Court, or a
Judge thereof, may order a “ further account,” when the one delivered
is defective ; and the Court may, in all cases, order a bill of particulars
of the claim of either party to be furnished.

SEC. 182. In the construction of a pleading for the pur ose of detere liberally construe , with a view
of substantial 'ustice between the parties.

SEC. 183. I irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading,
it may be stricken out, on motion of any person aggrieved thereby.
And when the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or uncertain
that the precise nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the
Court may require the pleading to be made definite and certain by
amendment. ’

SEC. 184. In pleading a judgment, or other determination of a Court

; or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the

facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may
be stated to have been duly given or made. If such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish on the trial the
facts conferring jurisdiction.

SEC. 185. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a
contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such performance; but it may be stated generally that the party duly performed all
the conditions on his part; and if such allegation be controverted, the

party pleading shall be bound to establish, on the trial, the facts showing such performance. In an action or defense founded upon an instrument for the_ payment of money only, it shall be suiiicient for a part to
give a copy of the instrument, and to state that there is due to im
thereon from the adverse party a specified sum, which he claims.

SEC. 186. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom,
it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title and the day of its
passage, and the Court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof.

SEC. 187. In an action -for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary to
state, in the complaint, any extrinsic facts, for the purpose of showing
the application to the plaintifff of the defamatory matter_out of which the
cause of action arose; but it shall be sufficient to state generally that the
same was published or spoken concernin the plaintifff ; and if such allegation be controverted, the plaintifff shal be bound to establish, on trial,
that it was so published or spoken.

SEC. 188. In the actions mentioned in the last Section, the defendant
may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as defamatory and any mitigating circumstances, to reduce the amount of
damages; and, whether he prove the justification or not, he may give, in
evidence, the mitigating circumstances.

SEC. 189. In an action to recover the possession of property distrained
doing damage, an answer that the defendant, or person by whose command he acted, was lawfully possessed of the real property upon which
the distress was made, and that the property distrained was at the time
doing damage thereon, shall be good, without setting forth the title to
such real property.

SEC. 190. The plaintifff may unite, in the same complaint, several
causes of action, whether they be such as have been heretofore denominated legal or equitable, or both, where they all arise out of-1. The same transaction, or transactions connected with the same subject of action; or,

2. Contract, express or implied; or, p

3. Injuries with or without force, to person and property, or either ;
or
,4. Injuries to character; or,

5. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages for the
withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the same; or,

6. Claims to recover personal property, with or without damages for the
withholding thereof; or,

f}. Claims against a Trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by operation
0 aw.

’ But the causes of action, so united, must all belong to one of these classes,
and, except in actions for the foreclosure of mortgages, must affect all
the parties to the action, and not require different places of trial, and must
be. separately stated. In actions to foreclose mortgages, the Court shall
have power to adjudge and direct the payment, by the mortgagor, of any
residue of the mortgage debt that may remain. unsatisfied after a sale of
the mortgaged premises, in cases in which the mortgagor shall be personally liable for the debt secured by such mortgage; and if the mortgage
debt be secured by the covenant or obligation of any person other than
the mort gor, the plaintifff may make such person a arty to the action,
and the ‘ urt may adjudge payment of the residue 0 such debt remaining unsatisfied alter a sale of the mortgaged premises against such other
person, and may enforce such 'udgment as in other cases.

SEC. 191. Every material legation of the complaint, not controverted
by the answer, as rescribed in Section one hundred and seventy-two, and
every material a legation of new matter in the answer, constituting a
counterclaim, not controverted by the reply, as prescribed in Section
one hundred and seventy-six, shall, for purposes of the action, be taken
as true. But the allegation of new matter 1n the answer, not relatingto
a counterclaim, or of new matter in a reply, is to be deemed controverted
by the adverse party as upon a direct denial or avoidance, as the case
may require.

CHAPTER VI.

MIBTAKFS IN PLEADING, AND AMENDMENTS.

SEC. 192. Material variances, how provided for.

193. Immaterial variances, how provided for.

194. What not to be deemed a variance.

195. Amendments of course and after demurrer.

196. Amendments by the Court.

197. Court may give relief in case of mistake.

198. Suing a part by a fictitious name.

199. No errplr or efect to be regarded unless it affect substantial

rig ts. *
200. Supplemental complaint, answer, and reply.

S130. 192. No variance between the alle tion in a pleading and the
proof shall be deemed material, unless it ave actually misled the adverse party, to his prejudice, in maintaining his action or defense, upon
the merits. Whenever it shall be alleged that a party has been so misled, that fact shall be proved to the satisfaction of the Court, and in what
respect he has been misled; and thereupon the Court may order the
pleading to be amended, upon such terms as shall be just.

SEC. 193. Where the variance is not material, as provided in the last
Section, the Court may direct the fact to be found according to the evidence, or ma order an immediate amendment without costs.

SEC. 194. here, however, the allegation of the cause of action or
defense to which the proof is directed is not proved, not in some particular
or particulars only, but in its entire scope and meaning, it shall not be
deemed a case of variance, within the last two Sections, but a failure of

roof.
P SEC. 195. Any pleading may be once amended by the party of course,
without costs, and without prejudice to the roceedings already had, at
any time within twenty days after it is serve , or at any time before the
period for answering it expires; or it can be so amended at any time
within twenty days after the service of the answer or demurrer to such
pleading, unless it be made to appear to the Court that it was done for

the purposes of delay, and the plaintifff or defendant will thereby lose the
benefit of a circuit or term for which the cause is or may be noticed; and
if it appear to the Court that such amendment was made for such purpose, the same may be stricken out, and such terms imposed as to the
Court may seem just. In such case a copy of the amended pleading
must be served on the adverse party. After the decision of a demurrer,
either at a general or special term, the Court may, in- its discretion, if it
appear that the demurrer was interposed in good faith, allow the party to
plead over upon such terms as may be just. If the demurrer be allowed
for the cause mentioned in the fifth sub-division of Section one hundred
and sixty-seven, the Court may, in its discretion, and upon such terms as
may be just, order the action to be divided into as many actions as may
be necessary to the proper determination of the causes of action therein
mentioned.

SEC. 196. The Court may, before or after judgment, in furtherance of
justice, and on such terms as may be proper, amend any pleading, process
or proceeding, by adding or striking out the name of any party; or by
correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other
respect; or by inserting other allegations material to the case; or, when
the amendment does not change substantially the claim or defense, by
conforming the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved.

SEC. 197. The Court may likewise, in its discretion, and upon such
terms as may be just, allow an answer or reply to be made,.or other Act
to be done. after the time limited by this Act, or, by an order, enlarge
such time ; and may also, in its discretion, and upon such terms as may
be just, at any time within one year after notice thereof, relieve a party
from a judgment, order, or other proceeding, taken against him throug
his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, and ma supply
an omission in any proceeding; and whenever any proceeding ta en y a
party fails to conform in any respect to the provisions of this Code, the
Court may, in like manner, and upon- like terms, permit an amendment
of such proceeding, so as to make it conformable thereto.

SEC. 198. When the -Plaintiff shall be ignorant of the name of a De- _
fendant, such Defendant may be designatedin any pleading or proceed- ‘
ing by any name; and when his true name shall be discovered, the
pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.

SEC. 199. The Court shall, in every stage of action, disregard any er- .
ror or defect in the pleadings or proceedings, which shall not affect the g
substantial rights of the adverse party; and no judgment shall be reversed or affected b reason of such error or defect.

SEC. 200. The P aintiff and Defendant respectively may be allowed,
on motion, to make a supplemental complaint, answer or reply, alleging '
facts material to the case occurring after the former complaint, answer or
reply, or of which the party was ignorant when his former pleading was
made, and either party may, by leave of the Court, in any pending or future action, set up by a supplemental pleading the judgment or decree of
any Court of competent jurisdiction rendered since the commencement of
such action, determining the matters in controversy in said action, or any
part thereof, and if said judgment be set up by the Plaintiff, the same
shall be without prejudice to any provisional remed theretofore issued
or other proceedings had in said action on his behal . '

TITLE VII.

OF THE PROVISIONAL REMEDIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I. Arrest and bail.
IL Claim and delivery of personal property.
III. Injunction.
IV. Attachment.
r V. Provisional remedies.

 

CHAPTER I.

ARREST AND BAIL.

SEC. 201. No person to be arrested in a civil action, except as prescribed. A

202. Arrest in civil actions, in what cases.

203. Order for arrrest, by whom to be made.

204. Affidavit to obtain order for arrest. To what actions this

Chapter applies.

205. Security by Plaintiff before obtaining order for arrest.

206. -Order or arrest, when it may be made, and its form.

207. Original affidavit and order to be delivered to Sheriff, and 4

copy to be delivered to Defendant.
208. Arrest, how made. =
209. Defendant to be discharged on giving bail or making a de-.
posit.

210. Bail, how given.

211. Surrender of Defendant.

212. The like.

213. Bail, how proceeded against.

214. Bail, how exonerated.

215. Delivery of undertaking of bail to Plaintiff, and its accepte

ance or rejection by him.

216. Notice of justification. New bail.

217. Qualification of bail.

218. Justiiication of bail.

219. Allowance of bail.

220. Deposit in lieu of bail.

221. Payment of deposit into Court.

222. Substituting bail for deposit.

223. Deposit, how dis of after judgment in the action.

224. Sheriif, when lia le as bail.

225. Proceedings on judgment against Sheriff.

226. Bail liable to Sheriffi A

227. Vacating order of arrest or reducing bail.

228. Aflidavits on motion to vacate order of arrest or reduce bail.

SEC. 201. No person shall be arrested in a civil action, except as prescribed by this Act; but the same shall not apply to proceedings for
contempt.

SEC. 202. The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter prescribed, in
the following cases:

1. In an action for the recovery of damages, on a cause of action not
arising out of contract, where the defendant is not resident of the State, ‘
or is about to remove therefrom, or where the action is for an injury to
person or character, or for injuring or for wrongfully taking, detaining or
converting property. I

2. In an action or a fine or penalty, or for money received, or property
embezzled or fraudulently misapplied, by a public officer, or by an
attorne , solicitor or counsellor, or by an officer or agent of a corporation or anking association, in the course of his em loyment as such, or
by any factor, agent, broker or other person in a ii uci capacity, or
for any misconduct or neglect in office, or in a professiona employment.

3. In an action to recover the possession of personal property unjustl
detained, where the propert , or any part thereof, has been concealed:
removed or disposed of, so t at it cannot be found or taken by the Sheriff
or Constable, and with the intent that it should not be so foundor taken,
or with the intent to deprive the plaintifff of the benefit thereof.

4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the
debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought, or in
concealing or disposing of the property for the taking, detention or conversion of which the action is brought, or when the action is brought to
recover damages for fraud or deceit.

5. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his property, or is

’ about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors.
But no female shall be arrested in any action, except for a willful injury
»to person, character or property.

SEC. 203. An order or the arrest of the defendant must be obtained
from a Judge, Trial Justice, or Clerk of the Court, in which, or before
whom, the action is brought.

SEC. 204. The order ma be made where it shall appear to the proper
officer by the affidavit of t e plaintifff’ or of an other person, that a suIlicient cause of action exists, and that the case mm the facts stated is one
of those mentioned in Section two hundred and two.

SEC. 205. Before making the order, the Judge or other officer shall
require a written undertaking on the gart of the plaintifff; with or without
sureties, to the effect that if the defen ant recover judgment, the plaintifff
will pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages
which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum
specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least one hundred dollars.
If the undertaking be executed by the plaintifff, without sureties, he shall
annex thereto an affidavit that he is a resident and householder or freeholder within the State and worth double the sum specified in the undertaking over all his debts and liabilities.

SEC. 206. The order may be made to accompany the summons, or at
any time afterwards before jud ment. It shall require the Sheriff or
Constable of the County where t e defendant may be found forthwith to
arrest him and hold him to bail in a specified sum, and to ieturn the
order, at a place and time therein mentioned, to the plaintifff or attorney
by whom it shall he subscribed or indorsed.

But said order of arrest shall be of no avail, and shall be vacated or
set aside on motion, unless the same is served upon the defendant, as provided by law, before the docketing of any judgment in the action; and
the defendant shall have twenty days, after the service of the order of
arrest, in which to answer the complaint.

SEC. 207. The affidavit and order of arrest shall be delivered to the
Sheriff or Constable, who, upon arresting the defendant, shall deliver to
him a cop thereof.

SEC. 20 . The Sheriff or Constable shall execute the order by arresting
the defendant and keeping him in custody until discharged by law, and
may call the power of the County to his aid in the execution of the
arrest, as in case of process.

SEC. 209. The defendant, at any time before execution, shall be
discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail or upon de iting the
amount mentioned in the order of arrest as rovided in this c apter.

SEC. 210. The defendant may give bail y causing a written undertaking to be executed by two or more suiiicient bail, stating their places
of residence and occupations, to the effect that the defendant shall at all
times render himself amenable to the -process of the Court, during the
pendency of the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce the
judgment therein; or, if he be arrested for the cause mentioned in third
sub-division of Section two hundred and two, and undertaking to the
same effect as that provided by Section two hundred and thirty-four.

SEC. 211. At any time before a failure to comply with the undertaking,
the bail may surrender the defendant in their exoneration, or he may surrender himself to the Sheriff of the County where he was arrested, in the
following manner: 1

1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail shall be delivered to
the Sheriff or Constable, who shall detain the defendant in his custody.
thereon, as upon an order of arrest, and shall, by a certificate in writing,
acknowledge the surrender;

2. Upon the production of a cop of the undertaking and Sheriff’s or
Constable’s certificate, a Judge or lerk of the Court may, upon a notice
to the plaintifff of eight da s, with a copy of the certificate, order that
the bail be exonerated; an on filing the order and the papers used on
said application, they shall be exonerated accordingly. But this Section
shall not apply to an arrest for cause mentioned in sub-division three
of Section two hundred and two, so as to discharge the bail from an undertaking given to the effect provided by Section two hundred and thirtyfour.

SEC. 212. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail, at
any time or place, before they are finally charged, may themselves arrest
him, or, by a written authority, indorsed on a certified copy of the undertaking, may empower any person of suitable age and discretion to do so.

SEC. 213. In case of failure to compl with the undertaking, the bail
ma be roceeded against, by action onfy.

EC. 14. The bail may be exonerated, either by the death of the defendant, or his imprisonment in a State prison, or by his legal discharge
from the obligation to render himself amenable to the process, or by his
surrender to the Sheriff or Constable of the County where he was arrested, in execution thereof, Within twenty days after the commencement
of the action against the bail, or within such further time as may be
granted by the Court.

SEC. 215. Within the time limited for that purpose, the Sheriff or Constable shall deliver the drder of arrest to the plaintifff, or attorney by
whom it is subscribed, with his return indorsed, and a certified copy of
the undertaking of the bail. The laintiff, within ten days thereafter,
may serve upon the Sheriff or Consta le a notice that he does not accept
the bail, or he shall be deemed to have accepted it, and the Sheriff or
Constable'shall be exonerated from liability.

SEC. 216. On the receipt of such notice, the Sheriff or Constable, or
defendant, may, within ten days thereafter, give to the plaintifff, or attorney by whom the order of arrest is subscribed, notice of the 'ustilication of
the same or other bail (specifying the laces of residence an occupation of
the latter) before a Judge or Clerk 0 the Court, at a specified time and
place; the time to be not less than live nor more than ten days thereafter.
In case other bail be given, there shall be a new undertaking, in the form
prescribed in Section two hundred and ten. '

SEC. 217. The qualification of bail must be as follows:

1. Each of them must be a resident, and householder or freeholder,
within the State.

2. They must each be worth the amount specified in the order of arrest,
exclusive of property exempt from execution ; but the Judge or Clerk of
the Court, on justification, may allow more than two bail to justify severally in amounts less than that expressed in the order, if the whole justification be equivalent to that of two sufficient bail.

SEC. 218. For the ur ose of justification, each of the bail shall attend
before the Judge or ler of the Court at the time and place mentioned

= in the notice, and may be examined on oath, on the part of the plaintifff,

touching his sufiiciency, In such manner as the Judge, or Clerk of the

_Court, in his discretion, may think pro er. The examination shall be redpfced to writing, and subscribed by e bail, if required by the plainti .

SEC. 219. If the Judge, or Clerk of the Court, find the bail sufficient,
he shall annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse his allowance
thereon, and cause them to be filed in the otlicc of the Clerk; and the Sheriff
shall thereupon be exonerated from liability.

SEC. 220. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead of iv- _
ing bail, de it with the Sheriff or Constable the amount mentione in
the order. he Sheriff’ shall thereupon ive the defendant a certificate of
the deposit and the defendant shall be ischarged out of custody.

SEC. 221. The Sheriff or Constable shall, within four days after the deposit, pay the same into Court, and shall take from the officer receiving 1
the same two certificates of such payment, the one of which he shall deliver to the plaintifff, and the other to the defendant. For any default in
makin such payment the same proceedings may be had on the official bond
of the Sheriff or Constable, to collect the sum deposited, as in other cases of
delinquency.

SEC. 22‘ . If money be deposited, as provided in the last two Sections, 1
bail ma be iven and justified upon notice, as prescribed in Section two .
hundre an sixteen, any time before judgment; and thereupon the
Judge before whom the justification is had shall direct, in the order of allowance, that the money deposited be refunded by the Sheriff or Constable to the defendant, and it shall be refunded accordingly.

SEC. 223. Where money shall have been so deposited, if it remain on de- (
posit at the time of an order or judgment for the payment of money to the

plaintifff, the Clerk shall, under direction of the Court, apply the same
in satisfaction thereof, and after satisfying the judgment, s al refund the
‘surplus, if any, to the defendant. If the 'udgment be in favor of the defendant, the Clerk shall refund to him t 6 whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied.

SEC. 224. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or -be rescued,
or bail be not iven or justified, or a deposit be not made instead thereof,
the Sheriff or onstable shall himself be liable as bail. But he may discharge himself from such liability by the giving and 'ustilication of bail,
as provided in Sections two hundred and sixteen, two undred and seventeen, two hundred and eighteen, and two hundred and nineteen, at any
time before process against the person of the defendant to enforce an order
or judgment in the action.

SEC. 225. If a judgment be recovered against the Sheriff or-Constable,
upon his liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfled, in whole or in part, the same proceedings may be had on the ofiicial
bond of the Sheriff or Constable to collect the deficiency, as in other cases
of delinquency.

SEC. 226. The bail taken upon the arrest shall, unless they justify, or
other bail be given or justified, be liable to the Sheriff or Constable by action for dama es which he may sustain by reason of such omission.

SEC. 227. defendant arrested may, at any time before judgment, apply, on motion, to vacate the order of - arrest, or to reduce the amount of

bail. .
SEC. 228. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff’ may oppose the same by afIidavits, or other proofs, in addition to those on which the order of arrest was
made.

CHAPTER II. ~ 

I

CLAIM AND DELIVERY on PERSONAL PROPERTY.

SEC. 229. Claim and deliver of rsonal ro rt .

230. Affidavit and its ryeqtlislilfes. P P6 y

231. Requisition to’ Sheriff to take and deliver the property.
232. Security by plaintifff.

233. Exception to suretiw.

234. Defendant, when entitled to re-delivery.

235. J ustiiication of defendant’s sureties.

236. Qualification and justification of sureties.

237. Property, how taken when concealed in building or enclosure.

238. Property, how kept.

239. Claim of property by third person.

2-10. Notice and affidavit, when and where to be filed.

SEC. 229. The plaintifff, in an action to recover the possession of personal property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time

before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such property, as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 230. Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit must be made by
the plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, showing: _

1. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed, (particularly
describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereo , by virtue
of a special property therem, the facts in respect to which shall be set
forth ;

2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant;

3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his best
knowledge, information, and belief;

4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution or attachment against
the property of the plaintifff ; or, if so seized, that it is, by statute, exempt from such seizure; and

5. The actual value of the property.

SEC. 231. The plaintifff may, thereupon, by an indorsement in writing ,
upon the affidavit, require the Sheriff of the County where the property claimed may be, to take the same from the defendant and deliver it to ;
the plaintifff.

SEC. 232. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and notice, with a written
undertaking executed by one or more sufficient sureties, approved by the 1
Sheriff, to the effect that they are bound in double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit for the prosecution of the action, for the
return of the property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and
for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered
against the plaintifff, the Sheriff shall forthwith take the property described in the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his
agent, and retain it in his custody. He shall also, without delay, serve
on the defendant a copy of the affidavit, notice, and undertaking, by delivering the same to him personally, if he can be found, or to his agent,
from whose possession the property is taken; or, if neither can be found,
by leaving them at the usual place of abode of either, with some person

, of suitable a e and discretion.

SEC. 233. e defendant may, within three days after the service of a copy
of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the Sheriff that he ex- ‘
cepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fail to do so, he shall be
deemed to have waived all objection to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties shall justif on notice, in like manner as upon bail on
arrest. And the Sheriff sha be responsible for the sufficiency of the
sureties, until the objection to them is either waived as above provided, 3
or until they shall justifiy, or new sureties shall be substituted and justify.
If the defendant except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property,
as rovided in the next Section.

‘EC. 234. At any time before the delivery of the property to the plain- ,
tiff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plaintifff, 1
require the return thereof, upon giving to the Sheriff‘ a written undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that they
are bound in double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit
of the plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such delivery
be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any
cause, be recovered against the defendant. If a return of the property

be not so required, within three da s after the taking and service of notice to the defendant, it shall be de ivered to the plaintifffs, except as provided in Section two hundred and thirty-nine.

SEC. 235. The defendant’s sureties, upon a notice to the plaintifff of not less
than two nor more than six days, shall justify before a Judge, Clerk of the
Court, or Trial Justice, in the same manner as upon bail on arrest. Upon such
justification, the Sheriff shall deliver the (property to the defendant. The
Sheriff shall be responsible for the defen ant’s sureties until they justify,
or until justification is completed or expressly waived, and may retain
the property until that time; but if they, or others in their place, fail to
justify at the time and place appointed, he shall deliver the property to
the p aintifl‘.

SEC. 236. The ualifications of sureties and their justification shall be

\ as are prescribed y Sections two hundred and seventeen and two hundred and eighteen in respect to bail upon an order of arrest.
SEC. 237. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a build‘_ ing or enclosure, the Sheriff shall publicly demand its delivery. If it be
» not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken open,
1 and take the property into his possession; and, if necessary, he may call

to his aid the ower of his County.
SEC. 238. hen the Sheriff shall have taken property, as in this chap‘ ter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to the party

entitled thereto, u on receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses for eeping, the same.
SEC. 239. If the property taken be claimed by any other _ person than

- the defendant or his agent, and such person shall make affidavit of his
’ title.thereto, and right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds of

such ri ht and title, and serve the same upon the Sheriff, the Sheriff‘ shall
not be ound to keep the property, or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless
the plaintifff, on demand of him or his agent, shall indemnify the Sheriff
against such claim, bti an undertaking, executed by two sufficient sureties, accompanied by eir affidavits, that the are each worth double the
value of the property, as specified in the a davit of the plaintifff, and
freeholders and householders of the County. And no claim to such
property, by any other person than the defendant _or his agent, shall be
valid against the Sheriff, unless made as aforesaid ; and, notwithstanding
such claim, when so made, he may retain the property a reasonable time
to demand such indemnity.

SEC. 240. The Sheriff shall file the notice and affidavit, with his pro; ceedings thereon, with the Clerk of the Court in which the action is pending, within twenty days after taking the property mentioned therein.

CHAPTER III. '

INJUNCTION.

SEC. 241. Writ of injunction abolished, and order substituted.
242. Temporary injunction, in what cases granted.
243. At what time it may be granted. Copy affidavit to be
served.

SEC. 244. Injunction after answer. \
245. Security u on injunction. Damages, how ascertained.
246. Order to s ow cause why injunction should not be granted.
247. Security upon injunction to suspend business of corporation.
248. Motion to. vacate or modify injunction.
249. Affidavits on motion.

SEC. 241. An order of injunction ma be made by the Circuit Court
in which the action is brought, or by a udge thereof, and in the absence
from the Circuit, or inability, from any cause, of a Judge thereof, by a
Judge of any other Circuit, or a Justice of the Sn reme Court.

SEC. 242. [1] Where it shall a pear by the comp aint that the plaintifff’
is entitled to the relief demanded: and such relief, or any part thereof,
consists in restraining the commission or continuance of some act, the
commission or continuance of which, during the litigation, would roduce injury to the plaintifff; or [2] when, during the litigation, it shall
appear that the defendant is doin , or threatens, or is about to do, or procuring or suffering some act to gbe done in violation of the plaintifff ’s
rights respecting the subject of the action, and tending to render the
judgment ineffectual, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain
such act. [3] And where, during the pendency of an action, it shall appear by affidavit that the defendant threatens, or is about to remove or
dispose of his property, with intent to defraud his creditors, a temporary

ginjunction ma be granted to restrain such removal or disposition.

, SEC. 243. he injunction may be ranted at the time of commencing
the action, or at any time afterwards, efore judgment, upon its appearing
satisfactorily to the Court or Judge, by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or of
any other person, that sufficient grounds exist therefore. A copy of the
affidavit must be served with the injunction. ‘

SEC. 244. An in'unction shall not be allowed after the defendant shall
have answered, unless upon notice or upon an order to show cause; but
in such case the defendant may be restrained until the decision of the
Court or Jud granting or refusing the in'unction.

SEC. 245. %hen no provision is made y statute as to security upon
an injunction, the Court or Judge shall require a written undertaking on
the part of the plaintifff, with or without sureties,‘ to the effect that the
plaintifff‘ will pay to the party enjoined such damages, not exceeding an
amount to be specified, as he may sustain by reason of the in°unction, if
the Court shall finally decide that the plaintifff was not entitled thereto.
The damages may be ascertained by a reference, or otherwise, as the
Court shall direct. ‘

SEC. 246. If the Court or Judge deem it roper that the defendant, or
any of several defendants, should be heard) before granting the injunction, an order may be made requiring to be shown, at a specified time and
place, why the injunction should’ not be granted; and the defendant may,
in the meantime, be restrained. ’

SEC. 247. An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary business
of a corporation shall not be granted except by the Court or a Judge
thereof. Nor shall it be granted without due notice of the application
therefore, to the proper officers of the corporation, except where the State
is a party to the proceeding, and except in proceedings to enforce the
liability of stockholders in; corporations and associations for banking

purposes, after the first day of January, one thousand eight hundred and
seventy, as such proceedings are or shall be provided b law, unless the
plaintifff shall give a written undertaking, executed by two sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the Court or Judge, to the effect that the
plaintifff will pay all damages, not exceeding the sum to be mentioned in
the undertaking, which such corporation may sustain by reason of the
injunction, if the Court shall finally decide that the plaintifff was not entitled thereto. The damages may be ascertained by a reference, or otherwise, as the Court shall direct.
SEC. 248. If the injunction be granted by the Court or a Judge there_ of, without notice, the defendant, at any time before the trial, may apply,
upon notice to the Court or a Judge thereof, in which the action is
brought, to vacate or modify the same. The application may be made
upon the complaints and the affidavits on which the injunction was
granted, or upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, with or without
the answer.
SEC. 249. If the application be made upon affidavits on the part of the
‘ defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits or other proofs, in addition to those on which the injunction was
granted.

CHAPTER IV.
ATTACHMENT.

SEC. 250. Property of foreign corporations, and of non-resident or absconding or concealed defendants, may be attached.

251. Attachment, by whom granted. ’

252. In what cases attachment may be issued. Afiidavits to be
filed. '

253. Security on obtaining attachment.

254. Attachment, to whom directed, and what to require.

255. Property to be attached. '

256. Sheriff"s duties in case.

257. Proceedings in case of perishable property or vessels.

258. Interest in corporations or associations liable to attach. ment.

259. Attachment, how executed on property incapable of manual
deliwery.

260. Certificate of defendant’s interest to be furnished.

261. Judgment, how satisfied.

262. When action to recover notes, &c., of defendant, may be
prosecuted by the plaintifff in the action in which the attachment issued.

263. Bond to Sheriff on attachment, how disposed of on judgment
for defendant.

264. Discharge of attachment, and return of property or its proceeds to defendant, on his appearance in the action.

265. Undertaking on the part of the defendant.

266. When Sheriff to return attachment with his proceedings
thereon.

SEC. 250. In an action arising on contract for the recovery of money
only, or in an action for the wrongful conversion of personal property,
against a corporation created by or under the laws of any other State, 1
government or country, or against a defendant who is not a resident of 1
this State, or against a defen ant who has absconded or concealed him- 1
self, or whenever any person or corporation is about to remove any of his 1
or its property from this State, or has assigned, disposed of, or secreted, 1
or is a out to assign, dispose of, or secrete any of his or its roperty, with ‘
intent to defraud creditors, as hereinafter mentioned, the p aintiif, at the
time of issuin the summons, or any time afterwards, may have the property of such efendant or cor ration attached, in the manner hereinafter prescribed, as a security or the satisfaction of such judgment as the
plaintifff may recover; and for the purposes of this Section an action shall
be deemed commenced when the summons is issued: Provided, however,
That personal service of such summons shall be made, or publication
thereof commenced within thirty days.

SEC. 251. A warrant of attachment must be obtained from a Judge ‘
or Clerk of the Court, or Trial Justice, in which or before whom the ac- .
tion is brought, or from a Circuit Judge.

SEC. 252. The warrant may be issued whenever it shall appear by affidavit that a cause of action exists ainst such defendant, specifying the 3
amount of the claim and the groun s thereof, and that the defendant is f
either a foreign corporation, or not a resident of this State, or has departed

' therefrom with intent to defraud his creditors or to avoid the service

of a summons, or keep himself concealed therein with the like intent, or
that such corporation or person has removed or is about to remove_any of
his or its property from this State, with intent to defraud his or its creditors, or has assigned, disposed of, or secreted, or is about to assign, dispose of, or secrete any of his or its property, with the like intent, whether
such defendant be a resident of this State or not.

It shall be the duty of the plaintifff procuring such warrant, within ten
days after the issuing thereof, to cause the afiiidavits on which the same was
granted to be filed in the office of the Clerk of the County, or with the
Trial Justice, in which, or before whom, the action is to be tried.

SEC. 253. Before issuing the warrant, the Judge, Clerk or Trial Justice
shall require a written undertaking, on the part of the plaintifff, with 7
sufiicient surety, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, or s
the attachment be set aside by order of the Court, the plaintifff’ will pa all
costs that ma be awarded to the defendant, and all damages whic he
may sustain y reason of the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least two hundred and fifty dollars, except in case of a warrant issued by a Trial Justice, when it shall
be at least twenty-five dollars.

SEC. 254. The warrant shall be directed to any Sheriff or Constable of
any County in which property of such defendant may be, and shall require him to attach and ‘safely keep all the propert of such defendant
within his County, or so much thereof as ma be su. cient to satisfy the
plaintifff’s demand, together with costs an expenses, the amount of
which must be stated in conformity with the complaint, together with
costs and expenses. Several warrants may be issued at the same time to
the Sheriff's or Constables of different Counties.

SEC. 255. The Sheriff or Constable to whom such warrant is directed

and delivered shall immediately attach all the real estate of such debtor,
and all his personal estate, including money and bank notes, except such
real and personal estate as is exempt from attachment, levy or sale by the
Constitution ; and shall take into his custody all books of account, vouchers and papers relating to the propert , debts, credits and effects of such
debtor, together with all evidences of is title to real estate, which he shall
safel keep, to be disposed of as hereinafter directed.

VV)lien real estate is attached, a true and attested copy of such attachment, together with a description of the real estate attached, shall be, by
the officer serving the same, delivered to the part whose real estate is attached, or left at his last and usual place of abo e; and the officer making such service shall also leave a true and attested copy of such attachment, together with a description of the real estate so attached, in the
office where, by law, a deed of such real estate is requiredto be recorded ;
and if the party whose estate is attached does not reside in this State, then
such copy shall be delivered to his tenant, agent or attorney, if any be
known ; and if no such agent, tenant or attorney be known, then a copy
of such warrant of attachment, with the officer s return thereon, lodged
in the office where, by law, a deed of such real estate ought to be recorded, shall be deemed sullicient service. It shall be the duty of the Clerk
or Register of the office wherein saidwarrant of attachment is required to
be lodged to receive the same and enter in a book ke t fer that purpose
the names of the parties, the date of the warrant of attac merit, the sum demanded, and the ofIicer’s return thereon. Said attachment shall be a
lien, subject to all rior liens, and bind the real estate attached from the
date of lodgment: rovided, That all attachments lodged upon the same
day shall take rank together. .

SEC. 256. He shall, immediatel on making such seizure, with the assistance of two disinterested freeho ders, make a just and true invento of
all the property so seized, and of the books, vouchers and papers ta en
into custody, stating therein the estimated value of the several articles of
personal property, and enumerating such of them as are perishable, which
inventory, after being signed by the Sheriff’ and appraisers, shall, within
ten days after such seizure, be returned to the officer who issued the warrant; and the Sheriff’ or Constable shall, under the direction of such oilicer, collect, receive and take into his possession all debts, credits and effects
of such debtor, and commence such suits, and take such legal proceedings, either in his own name or in the name of such debtor, as may be
necessary for that purpose, prosecute and discontinue the same at such
times and on such terms as the Court may direct. The roperty so seized,
or the proceeds of such as shall have been sold, an debts collected,
shall be kept to answer any judgment which may be obtained in such
action.

SEC. 257. If any property so seized shall be perishable, or if any part
of it be claimed by any other person than such defendant, or if any part
of it consist of a vessel, or of any share or interest therein, the same proceedings shall be had in all respects as are provided by law upon attachments against absent debtors. ,

SEC. 258. The rights or shares which such defendant may have in the
stock of any association or corporation, together with the interest and
profits thereon, and all other property in this State of such defendant, except that exempt from attachment by the Constitution, shall be liable to

be attached and levied upon, and sold to satisfy the judgment and execution. “

SEC. 259. The execution of the attachment upon any such rights,
shares, or any debts or other property incapable of manual delivery to the
Sheriff or Constable shall be made by leaving a certified copy of the warrant of attachment with the President or other head of the association or
corporation, or the Secretary, Cashier, or managing agent thereof, or with
the debtor or individual holding such property, with a notice showing the
property levied on. .

SEC. 260. Whenever the Sheriff or Constable shall, with a warrant of
attachment, or execution against the defendant, apply to such officer,
debtor, or individual, for the purpose of attachin , or levying upon such
property, such officer, debtor, or individual shall urnish him with a certificate under his hand, designating the number of rights or shares of the
defendant in the stock of such association or corporation, with any dividend or encumbrance thereon, or the amount and description of the
property held by such association, corporation, or individual, for the benefit of or debt owing to the defendant. If such officer, debtor, or individual refuse to do so, he may be required by the Court or Judge to attend before him, and be examined on oath, concerning the same, and
obedience to such order may be enforced by attachment.

SEC. 261. In case judgment be entered for the plaintifff in such action,
the Sheriff or Constable shall satisfy the same out of the property attached
by him, if it shall be sullicient for that purpose——

1. By paying over to such plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of perishable property, and of any vessel, or share or interest in‘ any vessel, sold by
him, or of any debts or credits collected by him, or so much as shall be
necessary to satisfy such judgment. .

2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have been issued
on such judgment, he shall proceed to sell, under such execution, so much
of the attached pro erty, real or personal, except as provided in sub-division four of this ction, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if
enough for that purpose shall remain in his hands; and in case of the
sale of any rights or shares in the stock of a cor oration or association,
the Sheriff or Constable shall execute to the pure aser a certificate of sale
thereof, and the purchaser shall thereupon have all the rights and privileges in respect thereto which were bad by such defendant.

3. If any of the attached property belonging to the defendant shall
have passed out of the hands of the Sheriff or Constable without having
been sold or converted into money, such Sheriff or Constable shall repossess himself of the same, and for that purpose shall have all the authority which he had to seize the same under the attachment; and any
person who shall willfully conceal or withhold such property from the
Sheriifor Constable shall be liable to double damages, at the suit of the
party injured.

4. Until the judgment against the defendant shall be paid, the Sherilf
or Constable may proceed to collect the notes and other evidences of
debt, and the debts that may have been seized or attached under the
warrant of attachment, and to prosecute any bond he ma have taken
in the course of such proceedings, and apply the proceeds thereof to the
payment of the judgment.

At the expiration of six months from the docketing of the judgment,

the Court shall have power, upon the petition of the plaintifff, accomanied by an aliidavit setting forth fully all the proceedings which have
Keen had by the Sheriff or Constable since the service of the attachment,
the ro erty attached, and the disposition thereof, and also the affidavit
of t e heriff or Constable that he has used diligence and endeavored to
collect the evidences of debt in his hands so attached, and that there remains uncollected of the same any part or portion thereof, to order the
Sheriff or Constable to sell the same, upon such terms and in such manner as shall be deemed proper. Notice of such application shall be given
to the defendant or his attorney, if the defendant shall have appeared in
the action. In case the summons has not been personally served on the
defendant, the Court shall make such rule or order, as to the service of
notice and the time of service, as shall be deemed just.

When the judgment and all costs of the proceedings shall have been
paid, the Sheriff or Constable, upon reasonable demand, shall deliver
over to the defendant the residue of the attached property, or the proceeds thereof.

SEC. 262. The actions herein authorized to be brought by the Sheriff
or Constable may be prosecuted by the plaintifff, or under his direction,
upon the delivery b him to the Sheriff or Constable of an undertaking
executed by two su cient sureties, to the effect that the plaintifff will indemnify the Sheriff’ or Constable from all damages, costs and expenses on
account thereof, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars in any one
action. Such sureties shall, in all cases, when required by the Sheriff or
Constable, justify by making an affidavit that each is a householder, and ‘
worth double the amount of the penalty of the bend, over and above all
demands and liabilities.

SEC. 263. If the foreign corporation, or absent or absconding or concealed defendant, recover judgment against the plaintifff in such action,
any bond taken by the Sheriffor Constable, except such as are mentioned
in the last Section, all the proceeds of sales and monies collected by
him, and all the property attached remaining in his hands, shall be delivered by him to the defendant, or his agent, on request, and the warrant
shall be discharged, and the property released therefrom.

SEC. 264. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in such action,
he may a ply to the officer who issued the attachment, or to the Court,
for an or er to discharge the same; and if the same be granted, all the
proceeds of sales and monies collected by him, and all the property attached remaining in his hands, shall be delivered or paid by him to the
defendant or his agent, and released from the attachment.

And where there is more than one defendant, and several property of
either of the defendants has been seized by virtue of the order of attachment, the defendant whose several property has been seized may apply to
the officer who issued the attachment for relief under this Section.

SEC. 265. Upon such application, the defendant shall deliver to the
Court or officer an undertaking executed by at least two sureties, who are
resident and freeholders or householders in this State, approved by such
Court or officer, to the effect that such sureties will, on demand, pay to the

laintifi‘ the amount of judgment that may be recovered against the deandant in the action, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking,
which shall be at least double the amount claimed by the plaintifff in his
complaint. If it shall appear by affidavit that the property attached be

less than the amount claimed by the plaintifff, the Court, or officer issuing
the attachment, may order the same to be appraised, and the amount of
the undertakin shall then be double the amount so appraised. And in
all casesthe d endant may move to discharge the attachment, as in the
case of other provisional remedies.

And where there is more than one defendant, and several pro rty of
either of the defendants has been seized by virtue of the order 0 attachment, the defendant whose several property has been seized may deliver
to the Court or officer an undertaking, in accordance with the provisions
of .this Section, to the effect that he will, on demand, pay to the laintiff
the amount of judgment that may be recovered against such de endant.
And all the provisions of this Section applicable to such undertaking
shall be applied thereto.

SEC. 266. When the warrant shall be fully executed or discharged, the
Sheriff or Constable shall return the same, with his proceedings thereon,
to the Court in which the action was brought.

CHAPTER V.
PROVISIONAL REMEDIES.

SEC. 267. A receiver may be ap ointed:

1. Before judgment, on the application of either party, when he establishes an apparent right to property which is the subject of the action,
and which is in the possession of an adverse party, and the property, or its
rents and profits, are in danger of being lost, or materially injured or impaired; except in cases where judgment upon failure to answer may be
had without application to the Court.

2. After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect.

3. After judgment, to dispose of the property accordin to the judgment, or to preserve it during the fpendency of an appeai or when an
execution has been returned unsatis ed, and the judgment-debtor refuses
to apply his property in satisfaction of the judgment.

4. the cases provided in this Code and by statute, when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights; and in like cases, of the
property within this State of foreign corporations. Receivers of the
pro rty within this State of foreign or other corporations shall be allowed
suc commissions as may be fixed by the Court ap ointing them, not exceeding five per cent. on the amount received and ' bursed by them.

5. In such other cases as are now provided by law, or may be in
alclacoiiance with the existing practice, except as otherwise provided in
t is ct. '

\Vhen it is admitted, by the pleading or examination of a party, that
he has in his possession or under his control any money or other thing
capable of delivery, which, being the subject of 'litigation,' is held by
him as trustee, for another party, or which belongs or is due to another
party, the Court may order the same to be deposited in Court, or deliv-ered to such party, with or without security, subject to the further direction of the Court.

Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a Court shall have ordered
the deposit, delivery or conveyance of money or other property, and the
order is disobeyed, the Court, besides punishing the disobedience as for
contempt, may make an order requiring the Sheriff or Constable to take
the money or property, and deposit, deliver, or convey it, in conformity
with the direction of the Court.

When the answer of the defendant expressl , or by not denying, admits
part of the plainti‘ff’s claim to be just, the ourt, on ‘motion, may order
such defendant to-satisfy that part of. the claim, and may enforce the
order as it enforces a judgment or provisional remedy.

TITLE VIII.
on THE TRIAL AND JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I. Judgment u on failure to answer, &c.
II. Issues and t e mode of trial.
III. Trial by jury.
IV. Trial by the Court.
V. Trial by referees.

VI. The manner of entering judgment.

CHAPTER I.

JUDGMENT UPON FAILURE TO ANSWER, &C.

SEC. 268. Judgment defined.
269. Judgment on failure of defendant to answer, or for excess
over counterclaim.
270. Judgment on frivolous demurrer, answer or reply.

SE0. 268. A judgment is the final determination of the rights of the
parties in the action.

SEC. 269. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to answer the
complaint, as follows :'

1. In any action arising on contract for the recovery of money only,
the plaintifff ma file with the Clerk proof of ersonal service of the summons and comp aint on one or more of the de endants, or of the summons
according to the provisions of Section one hundred and fifty—three, and
that no answer has been received. The Clerk shall thereupon enter judgment for the amount mentioned in the summons, a ainst the defendant,
or defendants, or against one or more of several de endants, in the cases
provided for in Section one hundred and fifty-nine. But if the complaint be
not sworn to, and such action is on an instrument for the payment of money
only, the Clerk, on its production to him, shall assess the amount due to
the plaintifff thereon; and in other cases shall ascertain the amount which
the plaintifff is entitled to recover in such action, from his examination,
under oath, or other proof, and enter the judgment for the amount so

‘ plaintifff may, in like manner, apply for judgment, and t

%ed or ascertained. In case the defendant give notice of appearance
in the action, he shall be entitled _to five days’ notice of the time and place
of such assessment.

Where the defendant, by his answer in‘ any such action, shall not deny
the plaintifff’s claim, but shall set up a counterclaim, amountin to less
than the plaintifff’s claim, judgment may be had by the plainti for the
excess of said claim over the said counterclaim, in like manner in any
such action, upon the plaintifffs filing with the Clerk of the Court a
statement admitting such counterclaim, which statement shall he annexed to and be a part of the judgment-roll.

2. In other actions the plaintifff ma , upon the like proof, a ly to the
Court, after the expiration of the time or answering, for the reliefpdleman ded
in the complaint. If the taking of an account or the proof of any fact be
necessary to enable the Court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment
into effect, the Court may takegthe account or hear the proof, or may, in
its discretion, order a reference for that purpose. And where the action
is for the recovery of money only, or of specific real or personal property,
with damages for the withholding thereof, the Court may order the
damages to be assessed by a jury, or, if the examination of a long account
be involved, by a reference as above provided. If the defendant give notice of appearance in the action before the expiration of the time for
answering, he shall be entitled to eight days’ notice of the time and place
of ap lication to the Court for the relief demanded by the complaint.

3. Eln actions where the service of the summons was by application, the

thereupon require proof to be made of the demand mentioned in the complaint; and if the defendant be not a resident of the State, must require
the plaintifff or his agent to be examined on oath resfpectin g any payments
that have been made to the plaintifff, or to any one or his use, on account
of such demand, and may render judgment for the amount which he is
entitled to recover. Before rendering judgment the Court -may, in its discretion, require the plaintifff to cause to be filed satisfactory security, to
abide the order of the Court, touching the restitution of any estate or
effects which may be directed by such judgment to be transferred or delivered, or the restitution of any money that may be collected under or by
virtue of such judgment, in case the defendant or his representatives
shall apply and be admitted to defend __the action, and shall succeed in
such defense.

SEC. 270. If a demurrer, answer or reply be frivolous, the party re°udiced thereby, upon a previous notice of five days, may apply to a fudge
of the Court, either in or out of the Court, for judgment thereon, and
judgment may be given accordingly.

CHAPTER II.
ISSUES AND THE MODE or TRIAL.

SEC. 271. The different kinds of issues.
272. Issue of law.
273. Issue of fact.

e Court must

Snc. 274. On  of both law and fact. The issue of law to be first
tri .
275. Trial defined.
276. Issues. How tried.
277. Issues triable by the Court.
278. Either party may give notice of trial. Note of issue.
279. Steno pher to be appointed by the several Circuits. To
ta e stenographic notes.
280. Duty of stenographer. ’
281. Order of disposing of issues on the calendar.

SEC. 271. Issues arise upon the pleadings when a fact or conclusion of
law is maintained by the one party and controverted by the other. They
are of two kinds:

1. Of law; and,

2. Of fact.

SEC. 272. An issue of law arises:

1. Upon a demurrer to the complaint, answer or reply, or to some part
thereof.

SEC. 273. An issue of fact arises:

1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted by the answer; or,

2. Upon new matter in the answer controverted by the re ly; or,

3. Upon new matter in the reply, except an issue of aw is joined
thereon.

SEC. 274. Issues, both of law and of fact, may arise upon different
parts of the pleadin in the same action. In such cases, the issues of
law must be first tri , unless the Court otherwise direct.

SEC. 275. A trial is the judicial examination of the issues between the
parties, whether they be issues of law or of fact.

SEC. 276. An issue of law must be tried by the Court, unless it be referred as provided in Sections two hundred and ninety-four and two hundred and ninety-five. An issue of fact, in an action ‘for the recove of
money only, or of specific real or personal property, or for adivorce m
the marriage contract on the ground of adultery, must be tried by a jury,
unless a jury trial be waived, as provided in Section two hundred and
ninety, or a reference be ordered, as provided in Sections two hundred and
ninety-four and two" hundred and ninety-five.

SEC. 277. Every other issue is triable by the Court, which, however,
may order the whole issue, or any specific question of fact involved
therein, to be tried by a jury, or may refer it, as provided in Sections two
hundred and ninety-four and two hundred and ninety-five. ~

SEC. 27 8. At any time after issue, and at least fourteen days before the
Court, either party may give notice of trial. The party giving the noti.e shall furnish the Clerk, at least eight days before the Court, with a
note of the issue containing the title of the action, the names of the attorneys, and the time when the last leading was served, and the Clerk shall
thereupon enter the cause upon t e calendar, according to the date of the
issue. There need be but one notice of trial, and one note of issue from
either party, and the action shall then remain on the calendar until disposed of, and when called may be brought to trial by the party giving the
notice. In every action in which issue of fact is now joined, and the action is now placed upon the calendar of the Court of Common Pleas, in
the First, Second and Fifth Circuits, the party who shall have filed such
note of issue, shall, as a condition recedent to such action being brought
to trial, pay to the Clerk of the urt the sum of three dollars ; and in
every action in either of the said Courts, commenced after the passa e of
this Act, the party who shall file therein a first note of issue of act, s all,
as a condition precedent to such tiling, pay to the Clerk of the Court the
sum of three dollars; and the amounts so received shall be accounted for
under oath, and paid over monthly, by the Clerk of each of said Courts,
to the County Treasurer, to be used as a fund for the payment of the salaries of stenographers em loyed in Courts. If the fund thus created be
inadequate to pay such sa aries, the additional amount necessary for such
payment shall be paid by the County Treasurers of the several Counties
in the Circuit out of any monies raised for County purposes, and in proportion to the valuation for taxation of their res ective Counties. The
several County Auditors in a Circuit shall furnis the Circuit Solicitor,
on demand, a certificate of the amount of taxable property in their respective Counties, upon which he shall apportion to said Counties the several sums to be paid by them to the stenographer, which sums shall be
paid upon the order of the Solicitor, approved by the Judge of the Circuit. Any surplus in the fund received by County Treasurers to pay
the salary of stenographers shall be appropriated to County purPOSGBSXB. 279. The Judges of the First, Second and Fifth Circuit Courts
shall each appoint a stenographer for their several Circuits, who shall be
a sworn officer of the Court, and who shall hold office during the leasure
of the Court, and shall be paid a salary of twenty-five hundr dollars
per annum, payable quarterly, upon the order of the presiding Judge. It
shall be the duty of every stenographer so appointed for any Circuit, under the direction of the presiding Judge thereof, to take full steno raphic
notes of all roceedings, including the rulings and charge of the urt in
every trial tllereat, and in case the presiding Judge shall require a transcript of said stenographic notes, he may order the same to be furnished
by the stenographer.

SEC. 280. It shall be the duty of such stenographer to furnish to any ~

party to such trials, upon request, a copy of the evidence and proceedings
taken by him on such trials, or of such tpart thereof as may be required,
on payment, on behalf of such party, 0 ten cents for every one hundred
words of the copy so furnished. The sum paid as a condltion precedent
to the cause being brou ht on trial, or to the first note of issue being filed
as hereinbefore provide , shall be deemed a necessary disbursement within
the meaning of Section three hundred and thirty-seven of the Code of
Procedure, and shall be allowed as such to the prevailing party in the action. ~

SEO. 281. The issues on the calendar shall be disposed of in the following order, unless, for the convenience of parties or the dispatch of business,

the Court shall otherwise direct:
1. Issues of fact to be tried by a jury;
2. Issues of fact to be tried by the Court ;

3. Issues of law.

CHAPTER III.

TRIAL BY JURY‘.

SEO. 282. Notice of trial. Separate trials.

283. Court to be furnished with a copy of the pleadings.

284. General and special verdicts defined.

285. When jury may render either general or special verdict,
and when the Court may direct a s ecial finding.

286. On sjiecial finding with a general ver ict, the former to contro .

287. Jury to assess defendant’s dama es in certain cases.

288. Entry of the verdict. Motion or new trial.

289. Motion for new trial, or for judgment on special verdict,
where to be heard.

SEC. 282. Either party giving the notice, ma bring the issue to trial,
and in absence of the adverse party, unless t e Court, for good cause,
otherwise direct, may proceed with his case, and take a dismissal of the
complaint, or a verdict or judgment, as the case may require. A se arate
trial between a laintiif and any of the several defendants may be a lowed
by the Court, w enever, in its 0 inion, justice will thereby be promoted.

SEC. 283. When the issue sha 1 be brought to trial by the plaintifff, he
shall furnish the Court with a copy of the summons and pleadings, with I
the offer of defendant, if any shall have been made. When the issue
shall be brought to trial by the defendant, and the plaintifff shall ne lect
or refuse to furnish the Court with a copy of the summons and p eadings and the offer of the defendant, the same may be furnished by the
defendant.

SEC. 284. A general verdict is that by which the jury pronounce generall upon all or an of the issuw, either _in favor of the plaintifff or defen ant. A special verdict is that by which the jury iind the facts
only, leaving the judgment to the Court. ~ SEC. 285. In an action for the recovery of s ecific personal property,
if the roperty have not been delivered to the p aintiff, or if it have, and
the de endant by his answer claim a return thereof, the jury shall assess
the value of the property, if their verdict be in favor of the plaintifff; or
if they find in favor of the defendant, and that he is entitled to a return
thereof; and may at the same time assess the damages, if any are claimed
in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by
reason of the detention or taking and withholding such property.

In every action for the recovery of money only, or specific real property, the jury, in their discretion, may render a general or s cial verdict. In all other cases the Court may direct the jur to {in a special
verdict in writing, upon any or all of the issues; an in all cases may
instruct them, if they render a, general verdict, to find upon particular
questions of fact, to be stated in writin , and ma direct a written finding thereon. The special verdict or iin in g shall be filed with the Clerk,
and entered upon the minutes.

SEC. 286. Where a special finding of facts shall be inconsistent with
the eneral verdict, the former shall control the latter, and the Court
shal give judgment accordingly.

SEC. 287. When a verdict is found for the plaintifff in an action ‘for
the recovery of money, or for, the defendant when a set-off for the recovery of money is established beyond the amount of the plaintiii"s

claim as established, the jury must also assess the amount of the recover ; ,
they may also, under the direction of the Court, assess the amount of t e ,

recovery when the Court give judgment for the plaintifff on the answer.
If a set-off, established at the trial, exceed the plaintili"s demand so established, judgment for the defendant must be given for the excess; or if
it appear that the defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief,
judgment must be iven accordingly. '

SEC. 288. [1.] pon receiving a verdict, the Clerk shall make an en- a

try in his minutes, specifying the time and place of the trial, the names
of the jurors and witnesses, the verdict, and either the judgment rendered
thereon, or an .order that the cause be reserved for ar ument or further
consideration. If a different direction he not given the Court, the
Clerk must enter judgment in conformity with the verdict. [2.] If an
exception be taken, it may be reduced to writing at the time, or entered
in the J udge’s minutes, and afterwards settled as provided by the rules
of Court, and then stated in writing in a case, or separately, with so much
of the evidence as may be material to the questions to be raised, but
need not be sealed or signed, nor need a bill of exceptions be made.
[3.] ‘If the exceptions be in the first instance stated in a case, and it be
afterwards necessary to separate them, the separation may be made under
the direction of the Court, or a Judge thereof. [4.] The Judge who
5 tries the cause may, in his discretion, entertain a motion, to be made on
‘ his minutes, to set aside a verdict and grant a new trial upon exceptions,
or for insufiicient evidence, or for excessive damages; but such motions in
actions hereafter tried, if heard upon the minutes, can only be heard at
the same term at which the trial is had. When such motion is heard
and decided upon the minutes of the Judge, and an appeal is taken from
the decision, a case or exceptions must be settled in the usual form, upon
which the argument of the appeal must be had.
SEC. 289. A motion for a new trial, on a case or exceptions, or otherWise, and an application for judgment on a special verdict or case reserved
for argument or further consideration, must, in the first instance, be heard

and decided at the same term, exce t that when exceptions are taken «

the Judge trying the cause may, at t e trial, direct them to be heard in
the first instance at the next or special term, and the judgment in the
meantime suspended; and in that case they must be there heard in the
first instance, and judgment there iven. And when, upon a trial, the
case presents only questions of law, tie Judge may direct a verdict.

CHAPTER IV.
TRIAL BY THE. COURT.

SEC. 290. Trial by jury, howwaived. * J
291. On trial by the Court, judgment, how given. Motion for
new trial.
292. Exceptions, how and‘ when taken. Judgment at general term.
293. Proceedings upon judgment on issue of law. SEC. 290. Trial by jury may be waived b the several parties to an issue of fact, in actions on contract, and, wit the assent of the Court, in
other actions, in the manner following:

1. By failing to appear at the trial.

2. By written consent, in person, or by attorney, filed with the Clerk.

3. By oral consent in open Court, entered in the minutes.

SEC. 291. Upon the trial of a uestion of fact by the Court, its decision shall be given in writing, an shall contain a statement of the facts
found, and the conclusions of law, separately; and upon a trial of an issue of law, the decision shall be made in the same manner, stating the
conclusions of law. Such decision shall be filed with the Clerk within
sixty days after the Court at which the trial took place. Judgment upon
the decision shall be entered accordingly.

SEC. 292. [1.] For the purposes of an appeal, either party may except
to a decision on a matter of law arising upon such trial within ten days
after notice in writing of the judgment, in the same manner and with
the same effect as upon a trial by jury : Provided, however, That where
the decision filed under Section two hundred and ninety-one does not authorize a final judgment, but directs further proceedings before a referee
or otherwise, either party may move for a new trial at the next term,
and for that purpose may, within ten days after notice of the decision
being filed, exce t thereto, and make a case or exceptions as above provided in cases 0 an appeal.

[2.] And either part desiring a review upon the evidence appearing 1

on the trial, either of e questions of fact or of law, may, at any time
within ten days after notice of the judgment, or within such time as may
be prescribed by the rules of the Court, make a case or exceptions in like
manner as upon a trial by jury, except that the Jud e, in settling the
case, must briefiy specify the acts found by him, an his conclusion of
law.

SEC. 293. On a judgment for the plaintifff upon an issue of law, the
plaintifff may proceed in the manner prescribed by the first two sub-divisions of Section two hundred and sixty-nine, upon the failure of the
defendantto answer, where the summons was personall served. If judgment be for the defendant, upon an issue of law, and i ’ taking of an account or the proof of ariy fact be necessary to enable the Court to complete the judgment, a re erence or assessment by jury may be ordered, as

in that Section provided.

CHAPTER V.
TRIAL‘ BY REFEREES.

SEC. 294. All issues referable by consent.
295. When a reference may be compulsorily ordered.
296. Mode of trial. Effect of report. Review.
297. Referees, how chosen. Report.

SEC.” 294. All or any of the issues in the action, whether of fact or of
law, or both, may be referred upon the written consent of the parties.

SEC. 295. Where the parties do not consent, the Court may, upon the
application of either, or of its own motion, except where the investigation
will uire the decision of diflicult questions of law, direct a reference .
in the ollowing cases:

1. Where the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination of '
a long account on either side; in which case the referees may be directed
to hear and decide the whole issue, or to report upon any specific question
of fact involved therein; or,

2. Where the taking of an account shall be necessary for the information of the Court, before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order
into effect; or,

3. Where a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, shall arise,
upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action.

SEC. 296. The trial by referees shall be conducted in the same manner, ,
and on similar notice, as a trial by the Court. They shall have the same 1
power to grant adjournments, and to allow amendments to any pleadings E
and to the summons, as the Court, upon such trial, upon the same terms
and with the like effect. They shall have the same power to preserve order
and punish all violations thereof upon such trial, and to compel the attendance of witnesses before them by attachment, and to punish them as for
contempt for non-attendance or refusal to be sworn or testify, as is possessed by the Court. They must state the facts found, and the conclusions of law se arately; and their decision must be 'ven, and ma be
excepted to an reviewed in like manner, and with ike effect in a 1 respects as in cases of appeal under Section two hundred and ninety-two;
and they may in like manner settle a case or exceptions. The report of
the referees upon the whole issue shall stand as the decision of the
Court, and judgment may be" entered thereon in the same manner as if
the action had been tried by the Court. When the reference is to report
the facts, the report shall have the effect of a special verdict.

When the case shall have been heard and decided upon the report of
the referee and exceptions, the decision may be reviewed, on appeal to
the Supreme Court.

SEC. 297. In all cases of reference the parties to whom issues are
formed in the action (except when the defendant is an infant or an absen- :
tee) may agree in writing upon a person or persons, not exceeding three, ‘
and a reference shall be ordered to him or them, and to no other person ‘

or persons. And if such parties do not agree, the Court shall appoint
one or more referees, not more than three, who shall be free from
exception. And no person shall be appointed referee to whom all
parties in the action shall object, except in actions for divorce. And no
Judge or Justice of any Court shall sit as referee in any action pending in the Court’ of which he is Judge or Justice, and not already re.ferred, unless the parties otherwise stipulate. The referee or referees shall

ake and deliver a report within sixty days from the time the action

all be finally submitted; and in default thereof, and before the report
, delivered, either party may serve notice upon the opposite party that

e elects to end the reference; and thereu n the action shall proceed as
houilei no reference had been ordered, an the referees shall not in such

e ‘entitled to any fees.

CHAPTER VI.
MANNEB or ENTERING JUDGMENT.

SEC. 298. Judgment may be for or against an of the parties to the
action; may grant defendant a rmative relief. Complaint ma be dismissed for neglect to prosecute the
action. udgment against married women.

299. The relief to be awarded to the plaintifff.

300. Rates of damages where damages are recoverable.

301. Judgment in action for recovery of personal property.

302. Jud ment, how directed.

303. Cleri to keep a judgment-book.

304. Judgment to be entered in jud ment-book.

305. J udgment-roll. Transcript o’ judgment filed in any other

County—efI'ect of.

SEC. 298. 1. Judgment may be given for or against one or more of several plaintifffs, and for or against one more of several defendants; and it
may determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each side, as between
themselves. .

2. And it may grant to the defendant any affirmative relief to which he
may be entitled.

3. In an action against several defendants, the Court may, in its dis-4
cretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving the actionl
to proceed against the others, whenever a several judgment may be
pro r. .

4I.’eThe Court may also dismiss the complaint, with costs in favor of one
or more defendants, in case of unreasonable neglect on the part of the
plaintifff to serve the summons on other defendants, or to proceed in the ;
cause against the defendant or defendants served.

In action brought by or against a married woman, judgment may be
given against her as well for costs as for damages, or both for such costs
and for such damages, in the same manner as against other persons, to be
levied and collected of her separate estate, and not otherwise.

SEC. 299. The relief granted to the plaintifff, if there be no answer, cannot exceed that which he shall have demanded in his complaint; but in
any other case the ‘Court may rant him any relief consistent with the
case made by the complaint an embraced within the issue.

SEC. 300. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintifff may claim
and recover, if he show himself entitled thereto, any rate of damages
which he might have heretofore recovered for the same cause of action.

SEC. 301. In an action to recover the possession of personal property,
judgment for the plaintifff may be for the possession, or for the recovery of
possession, or the value thereof, in case a delivery cannot be had, and of
damages for the detention. If the property have been delivered to the
plaintifff, and the defendant claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the property, or the value thereof, in case
a return cannot be had, and damages for taking and withholding the
same.

SEC. 302. Judgment upon an issue of law, or of fact found, or upon
confession, or upon failure to answer, or upon report of referees (except

where the Clerk is authorized toenter the same, by the first sub-division of
Section two hundred and sixty-nine, and by Section four hundred and one,)
shall be entered upon the direction of a Judge, subject to review on appeal in the Sn reme Court.

2 Sec. 303. T e Clerk shall keep among the records of the Court a book
for the entry of judgment, to be called the “ Judgment Book.”

SEC. 304. The jud ment shall be entered in the Judgment Book, and

shall specify clearly t e relief granted, or other determination of the action.
_ SEC. 305 Unless the party or his attorney shall furnish a judgment
roll, the Clerk, immediately after entering the judgment, shall attach togeltlher, and file the following papers, which shall constitute the judgment
to :

1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant, the summons and complaint, or copies thereof‘, proof of service, and that no answer has been received, the report, if any, and a copy of the judgment.

2. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings or copies thereof, and a
copy of the judgment, with any verdict or report, the offer of the defendant, exceptions, case, and all orders and papers in any way involving the
merits and necessarily aifecting the judgment.

A transcript of a hnal 'udgment, directing, in whole or in part, the
payment of money, may he docketed with the Clerk of the Court of
Common Pleas in an other County, and, when so docketed, shall have
‘the same force and e ect as a judgment of that Court.

 

‘ TITLE IX.
or THE EXECUTION or THE JUDGMENT IN CIVIL scrroxs.

CHAPTER I. The execution.
II. Proceedings supplementary to the execution.

CHAPTER I.
THE ExEoUTIoN{

SEC. 306. Execution within five years of course.

307. Execution can only be issued by leave of Court after five years.
Leave, how obtained.

308. Judgments, how enforced.

309. The different kinds of execution.

310. To what Counties execution may be issued. Execution against
a married woman.

311. Execution against the person, in what cases.

312. Forms of execution.

313. Final judgments not a lien. Attachments on mesne process a
lien for one hundred and twenty days after final judgment.

SEC. 314. Attachment of real estate made by lodging a copy of execution, and officer’s return with Register of Deeds. Such
attachment a lien for one hundred and twenty days.

315. Execution to be returnable in sixt days.

316. Personal roperty bound only by e .

317. Existing aws, not inconsistent with t is, relating to executions,
continued until otherwise provided.

SEC. 306. Writs of execution for the enforcement of judgments as now
used are modified in conformity to this title, and the party in whose favor judgment has been heretofore, or shall hereafter be, given, and, in
case of his death, his personal representatives duly appointed, may, at
any time within five years after the entry of judgment, proceed to enforce
the same, as prescribed by this title.

SEC. 307. After the lapse of five years from the entry of judgment, an
execution can be issued only by leave of the Court, upon motion, with
personal notice to the adverse party, unless he be absent or non-resident,
or cannot be found to make such service, in which case such service may
be made by publication, or in such other manner as the Court shall
direct. Such leave shall not be given unless it be established by the
oath of the party, or other satisfactory proof, that the judgment, or some
part thereof, remains unsatisfied and due. But the leave shall not be
necessary when execution has been issued on the judgment within the
five ears, and returned unsatisfied in whole or in part.

hen judgment shall have been rendered in a Court of a Trial J usticei

or other inferior Court in a city, and docketed in the office of the Clerk of
the County, the application for leave to issue execution must be to the
County Court of the County where the judgment was rendered.

SEC. 308. Where a judgment requires the payment of money, or the
delivery of real or personal property, the same ma be enforced in those
respects by execution, as provided in this title. Where it requires the
performance of any other act, a certified copy of the judgment may be
served upon the party against whom it is given, or the person or officer
who is required thereby or by law to obey the same, and his obedience
thereto enforced. If he refuse, he may be punished by the Court as for
a contempt.

SEC. 309. There shall be three kinds of execution: One against the
property of the judgment debtor; another against his person; and the
third for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, or
such delivery with damages for withholding the same. They shall be
deemed the process of the Court.

SEC. 310. When the execution is against the property of the judgment
debtor, it ma be issued to the Sheriff of any County where judgment is
docketed. en it requires the delivery of real or personal property, it
must be issued to the Sheriff of the County where the property, or some
part thereof, is situated. Executions may be issued at the same time to
different Counties.

Real propert adjudged to be sold must be sold, in the County where
it lies, by the Slierilf of the County or by ‘a referee appointed by the
Court for that purpose; and, thereupon, the Sheriff or referee must execute a conveyance to the purchaser, which conveyance shall be effectual
to pass the rights and interests of the parties adjudged to be sold.

two.

An execution may issue against a married woman, and it shall direct
the levy and collection of the amount of the judgment against her from
her separate property, and not otherwise. .

SEC. 311. If the action be one in which the defendant might have 1
been arrested, as provided in Section two hundred and two and Section 1
two hundred and four, an execution against the person of the judgment ‘
debtor may be issued to any County within the jurisdiction of the Court,
after the return of an execution against his propert unsatisfied in whole
or in part. But no execution shall issue against e person of a judgment debtor, unless an order of arrest has been served, as in this Act
provided, or unless the complaint contains a statement of facts showing
one or more of the causes of arrest required by Section two hundred and

SEC. 312. The execution must be directed to the Sheriff, or Coroner,
when the Sheriff is a party or interested, attested by the Clerk, subscribed ‘
by the party issuing it, or his attorney, and must lntelligibly refer to the
judgment, stating the Court, the County where the judgment roll or
transcript is filed, the names of the parties, the amount of the judgment,
if it be for money, and the amount actually due thereon, and the time
of docketing in the County to which the execution is issued, and shall
require the oiiicer, substantially, as follows:

1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it shall require the officer to satisfy the judgment out of the personal pro erty of
such debtor; and if sufficient personal property cannot be foun , out of
the real property belonging to him.

2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands of personal
representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property, or trustees, it shall require the officer to satisfy the judgment out of such propert . V

3;. If it be against the rson of the judgment debtor, it shall require
the officer to arrest such ebtor and commit him to the jail of the County
until he shall pay the judgment or be discharged according to law. _

4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, it shall require the officer to deliver the possession of the same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and may at the same
time require the officer to satisfy any costs, damages, or rents or profits recovered by the same judgment, out of the personal property of the party
against whom it was rendered, and the value of the roperty for which
the judgment was recovered, to be specified therein; i a delivery thereof
cannot be had, and if sufficient personal property cannot be found, then
out of the real property belonging to him, and shall in that respect be
deemed an execution against property.

SEC. 313. Final judgments, hereafter rendered, shall not of themselves
constitute a lien upon real or personal property, or in any way bind the
real or personal property of the judgment debtor: Provided, That the real
or personal property attached and held on mesne process, in an action,
shall continue bound until the ex iration of one hundred and twenty days
after final jud ment is rendered, or the purpose of satisfying the same.

SEC. 314. Vghent an officer holding an execution for collection shall be
directed by the creditor, his agent or attorney, to levy the same on the
real estate of the debtor, he may lodge in the office where by law a deed
of such real estate is required to be recorded, a certified copy of such execution,-with a certificate thereon, under his hand, stating that he is directed to levy the same on such real estate, substantially describing the
same. The real estate thus described shall be held to satisfy such execution, for the term of one hundred and twenty days from the time of lodging the copy thereof; and when incumbered by previous attachments,
or liens, the lien, thus created, shall remain, after the removal of such
prior encumbrance, or lien, one hundred and twenty days.

The Register of Mesne Conveyance shall keep a record of such copy in
the same manner as attachments on mesne process.

SEC. 315. The execution shall be returnable, within sixty days after its
receipt by the oiiicer, to the Clerk withwhom the record of judgment is
filed. If the first execution is returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part,
another execution, as of course, may be issued at any time within the period limited b this Act for issuing executions.

SEC. 316. he lodgment of executions, hereafter issued, with the Sheriff
shall not bind the personal property of the debtor, but personal property
shall only be bound by actual attachment or levy thereon.

SEC. 317. Until otherwise provided by the Legislature, the existing provisions of law, not supplied by, or in conflict with, this chapter, relating to
executions and their incidents, the property liable to sale or execution,
the sale thereof, the powers and rights of officers, their duties thereon,
and the roceedings to enforce those duties, and the liability of their sureties, sha 1 apply to the executions prescribed by this chapter.

 

CHAPTER II.
PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE EXECUTION.

SEC. 318. Order for discovery of property, examination of judgment
" debtor, &c.
319. Any debtor to execution debtor may pay his debt to Sheriff.
320. Examination of debtors of judgment debtor, or of those
having property belonging to him.
321. Witnesses required to testify.
322. Compelling party or witnesses to attend. ,
323. What property may be ordered to be applied to the execution.
324. Judge may appoint receiver, and prohibit transfer of property.
325. Proceedings upon claim of another party to property, or on
denial of indebtedness to judgment debtor.
326. Reference by Judge.
327. Costs of proceeding.
328. Disobedience of order, how punished.

SEC. 318. 1. When an execution against property of the judgment
debtor, or any one of several debtors in the same judgment, issued
to the Sheriff of the County where he resides, or has a place of business,
or if_ he do not reside in the State, to the Sheriff of the County where a
judgment-roll or a transcript of a J ustice’s judgment for twenty-five dollars or upwards, exclusive of costs, is filed, is returned unsatisfied, in whole
or in part, the judgment creditor, at any time after such return made, is
entitled to an order from a Jud of the Circuit Court, or ‘requirin such
judgment debtor to appear an answer concernin his property, efore
such Judge, at a time and place specified in the or er, within the County
to which the execution was issued. 2. After the issuing of an execution
against property, and upon proof by affidavit, of a party or otherwise,
tothe satisfaction of the Court, or a Judge thereof, that any judgment
debtor has property which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment, such Court or Judge may, by an order, require
the judgment debtor to appear at a specified time and place, to answer
concerning the same; and such roceedings may thereupon be had for
the application of the property 0? the 'udgment debtor towards the satisfaction of the judgment as are provided upon the return of an execution. 3. On an examination under this Section, either party may examine witnesses in his behalf, and the judgment debtor may be examined in
the same manner as a witness. 4. Instead of the order requiring the
attendance of the judgment debtor, the Judge ma , upon proof b affidavit or otherwise, to his satisfaction, that there is anger of the de tor’s
leaving the State, or concealing himself, and that there is reason to believe he has property which he unjustly refuses to apply to such judgment, issue a warrant requiring the Sheriff of any Countv where such
debtor may be to arrest him and bring him before such Judge. Upon
being brought before the Judge, he may be examined on oath, and if it
then appears that there is danger of the debtor's leaving the State, and
that he has property which he has unjustly refused to apply to such judgment, ordered to enter into an undertaking, with one or more sureties,
that he will, from time to time, attend before the Judge as he shall direct,
and that he will not, during the pendency of the proceedin , dispose of
any portion of his propert not exempt from execution. 11 default of
entering into such underta ing, he may be committed to prison by warrant of the Judge, as for a contempt. 5. No person shall, on examina- ,

tion, pursuant to this chapter, be excused from answering any question on
the ground that his examination will tend to convict him of the commission of a fraud; but his answer shall not be used as evidence against him
in any criminal proceeding or prosecution. Nor shall he be excused
from answering any question, on the ground that he has, before the examination, executed any conveyance, assignment or transfer of his property for any purpose, but his answer shall not be used as evidence against
' in any criminal proceeding or prosecution.

SEC. 319. After the issuin of execution against property, any person
indebted to the jud ent de tor may pay to the Sheriff the amount of
his debt, or so muc thereof as shall be necessary to satisfy the execution; and the Sheriff ’s receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the
amount so paid.

SEC. 320. After the issuing or return of an execution against property
of the judgment debtor, or of any one -of several debtors in the same
judgment, and upon an affidavit that any person or corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to him in an amount exceeding ten dollars, the Judge may. by an order, require such person or corporation, or any officer or member thereof, to appear at a specified time
and place, and answer concerning the same. The Judge may also, in his

discretion, require notice of such proceedin to be given to any party to
the action, in such manner as may seem to im proper.

The proceedings mentioned in.this Section, and 1n Section three hundred and ei htwn, may be taken upon the return of an execution unsatisfied, issu upon a 'udgment recovered in an action against joint debtors, in which some of the defendants have not been served with the summons by which said action was commenced, so far as relates to the joint
property of such debtors; and all actions by creditors to obtain satisfaction of judgments out of the property of joint debtors are nfaintainable
in the like manner and to the like effect. These provisions shall apply
to all proceedings and actions now pending, and not actually terminated
by any final 'u gment or decree.

SEC. 321. itnesses may be required to appear and testify on any proceedings under this chapter, in the same manner as upon the trial of an
Issue.

SEC. 322. The party or witness may be required to attend before the
Judge, or before a referee ap inted by the Court or Judge; if before a
referee, the examination sha 1 be taken by the referee, and certified to
the Judge. All examinations and answers before a Judge or referee, under this chapter, shall be on oath, except that when a corporation answers, the answer shall be on the oath of an officer thereof.

SEC. 323. The Judge may order any property of the judgment debtor,
not exempt from execution, in the hands either of himself or any other

person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied towards the satisfac- \

tion of the judgment; except that the earnings of the debtor for his personal services, at any time within sixty days next preceding the order,
cannot be so applied when it is made to appear, b the debtor’s affidavit
or otherwise, that such earnings are necessary or the use of a family
su ported wholly or rtly by his labor.

E0. 324. The J u ge may also, by order, appoint a receiver of the
property of the judgment debtor, in the same manner, and with the like
authority, as if the appointment was made by the Court, according to
Section two hundred and sixty-seven. But before the appointment of
such receiver, the Judge shall ascertain, if practicable, by the oath of
the party or otherwise, whether any other supplementary proceedings
are ndmg against the judgment debtor, and if such proceedin are so
pen ing, the plaintifff therein shall have notice to ap r be ore him,
and shall likewise have not ice of all subsequent procee ings in relation
to said receivership. N o more than one receiver of the roperty of a
judgment debtor shall be appointed. The Judge may a so, by order,
forbid a transfer or other disposition of the property of the judgment
debtor not exempt from execution, and any interference therewith.

Whenever the Judge shall grant an order for the appointment of a
receiver of the roperty of the judgment debtor, the same shall be filed
in the office of t e Clerk of the Court of Common Pleas of the County
where the judgment roll in the action, or transcript from Trial J ustice’s
judgment, upon which the proceedin are taken, is filed; and the said
Clerk shall record the order in a booEato be kept for that purpose in his
office, to be called “ Book of Orders Appointing Receivers of Judgment
Debtors,” and shall note the time of the filing of said order therein. A
certified copy of said order shall be delivered to the receiver named
therein, and he shall be vested with the property and effects of the judgment debtor from the time of the filing and recordin of the order as
aforesaid. The receiver of the judgment debtor shall e subject to the
direction and control of the Courtin which the jud ment was obtained,
or docketed, upon which the proceedings are foundeg.

But before he shall be vested with an real property of such jud ment
debtor, a certified copy of said order s all also be filed and recor ed in
the office of the Register of Mesne Conveyances of the County in which
an real estate of such °udgment debtor sought to be affected by such
or er is situated, and so 111 the office of the Re ister of Mesne Conveyances of the County in which such judgment de tor resides.

SEC. 325. If it appear that a person or cor oration alleged to have
property of the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims an interest in
the property adverse to him, or denies the debt, such interest or debt shall
be recoverable onl in an action against such person or corporation by the
receiver; but the fudge may, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of such property or interest, till a sufficient opportunity be given
to the receiver to commence the action, and prosecute the same to judgment and execution; but such order may be modified or dissolved by the
Judge granting the same, at any time, on such security as he shall direct.

SEC. 826. The Judge may, In his discretion, order a reference to a
referee agreed upon by the parties, or appointed by him, to report the
evidence or the facts, and may, in his discretion, appoint such referee in
the first order, or at any timeSEC, 327. The Judge may allow to the judgment creditor, or to any
party so examined, whether a party to the actlon or not, witnesses’ fees
and disbursements, and a fixed sum in addition, not exceeding thirty
dollars, as costs.

SEC. 328. If any person, party or witness, disobey an order of the
Judge or referee, duly served, such person, party or witness, may be
punished by the Judge as for a contempt. And in all cases of commitment under this chapter, the person committed may, in case of inability
to perform the act required, or to endure the imprisonment, be discharged
from imprisonment by the Court or Judge committing him, or the Court
in which the judgment was rendered, on such terms as may be just.

TITLE X.
on THE cosrs IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

SEC. 329. Existing statutes regulating costs repealed.
330. Costs, when allowed of course to the laintiff.
331. Costs, when allowed of course to the efendant.
332. Costs, when allowed to either party, in the discretion of
the Court.
333. Amount of costs allowed.
334. Allowance in addition to costs.
335. Allowance, how computed. Difiicult and extraordinary
cases.
336. Interest on verdict or report, when allowed.

SEC. 337. Costs, how to be inserted in judgment. Adjustment of
interlocutory costs.
. 338. Clerk’s fees.

339. Referee’s fees.

340. Costs on postponement of trial.

341. Costs on a motion.

342. Costs against an infant plaintifff.

343. Costs in an action by or against an executor or administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute to sue.

344. Costs on review of a decision of an inferior Court in a
special proceeding.

345. Costs in an action by the State.

346. The like.

347. Costs against assignee after action brought, of cause of
action.

348. Costs on a settlement.

S110. 329. All statutes establishing or regulating the costs or fees of attorneys, solicitors and counsel in ClVll actions are repealed; and hereafter
the measure of such compensation shall be left to the agreement, express
or implied, of the parties. But there may be allowed to the prevailing
party, upon the judgment. certain sums, by way of indemnit , for his
expenses in the action, which allowances are in this Act terme costs. .

SEC. 330. Costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintifff, upon a recovery, in the following cases:

1. In an action for the recove of real property, or when aclaim of title
to real property arises on the plea ings, or is certified by the Court to have
come in question at the trial.

2. In an action to recover the possession of personal property. 3. In the actions of which a Court of Trial Justice has no jurisdiction.

4. In an action for the recovery of money, where the plaintifff shall recover fifty dollars. But in an action for assault, battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversation, or seduction, if the plaintifff recover less than fifty dollars damages, he shall
recover no more costs than damages. And in an action to recover the
possession of personal property, if the plaintifff recover less than fifty dollars damages, he shall recover no more costs than damages, unless he recovers also property, the value of which, with the damages, amounts to
fifty dollars, or the possession of property be adjudged to him, the value
of which, with the damages, amounts to fifty dollars. Such value must be
determined by the jury, court or referee by whom the action is tried.
When several actions shall be brought on one bond, recognizance, promissory note, bill of exchange or other instrument in writing, or’ in any other
case for the same cause of action, against several parties who might have been
joined as defendants in the same action, no costs other than disbursements
shall be allowed to the plaintifff in more than one of such actions, which
shall be at his election: Provided, That the party or parties proceeded
against in such other action or actions shall, at the time of the commencement of the previous action or actions, have been within this State and

not secreted.

SEC. 331. Costs shall be allowed of course to the defendant in the actions mentioned in the last Section, unless the plaintifff be entitled to costs
therein.

SEC. 332. In other actions, costs may be allowed, or not, in the discretion of the Court. In all actions where there are several defendants not united in interest,
and making separate defenses by separate answers, and the plaintifff fails
to recover judgment against all, the Court may award costs to such of
the defendants as have judgment in their favor, or an of them.

In the following cases, the costs of an appeal shall in the discretion
of the Court:

1. When a new trial shall be ordered;

2. When a 'udgment shall be afiirmed in part and reversed in part.

SEC. 333. hen allowed, except in Courts of Trial Justices, costs shall
be as follows:

1. To the plaintifff, for all proceedings before notice of trial, in actions
where judgment for failure to answer can be taken without application to
the Court, fifteen dollars; where jud ment can only be taken on such application, twenty-five dollars; for al proceedings after notice of and before trial, fifieen dollars; for each additional defendant served with process, not exceeding ten, two dollars; and for each necessary defendant,
in excess of that number, served with process, one dollar.

2. To the defendant, for all proceedings before notice of trial, ten dollars; and for all proceedings after notice of and before trial, fifteen dollars.

' 3. To either party for the trial of an issue of law, twenty dollars ; for
every trial of an issue of fact, thirty dollars ;‘and where the trial shall
necessarily occupy more than two days, ten dollars in addition hereto.

4. To either party, where a new trial shall be had, for all roceedings
after the granting of and before such new trial, twenty-five ollars ; for
attending upon and taking the deposition of a witness conditionally, or
attending to perpetuate his testimony, ten dollars ; for drawing interrogatories to annex to a commission for the taking of testimony, ten dollars;
for attending the examination of a party before trial, ten dollars; for
making and serving a case, or case containing exceptions, twenty dollars,
except that where the case shall necessarily contain more than fifty folios,
there shall be allowed ten dollars in addition thereto ; and for making
and serving amendments thereto, ten dollars. To the plaintifff, for the
appointment of a guardian of an infant defendant, ten dollars; but no
more than ten dollars shall be allowed for the appointment of guardians
in any one action. To the plaintifff; for procuring an order of injunction,
ten dollars.

5. To either party on appeal to the Supreme Court before argument,
thirty dollars; for argument, sixty dollars; and when a judgment is
affirmed, the Court may, in its discretion, also award damages for the delay, not exceeding ten per cent. on the amount of the judgment; for preparing and serving a case, or case containing exceptions, in appeals to
the Sn reme Court, twenty dollars.

6. o either party, for every term, not exceeding live, at which the
cause is necessarily on the calendar and is not tried, or is postponed by
Order of the Court, ten dollars; and for every term not exceedin ten,
excluding the term at which the cause is argued in the Sn reme urt,
ten dollars; but in an action hereafter brought to recover ower, before

I

admeasurements of real property aliened by the husband, the plaintifff
shall not recover costs, unless it appear that the dower was demanded
before the commencement of the action and was refused.

The same costs shall be allowed to the plaintifff in roceedings under
chapter two,-title twelve, of the second part of this Co e, (Sections three
hundred and ninety-two to three hundred and ninety-eight,) as upon the
commencement of an action.

SEC. 334. In addition to these allowances, there shall be allowed to
the plaintifff, upon the recovery of judgment by him, in any action for
the partition of real property, or for the foreclosure of a mortgage, or in
any action in which a warrant of attachment has been issued, or for an
adjudication upon a will or other instrument in writing, and in proceedings
to compel the determination of claims to real property, the sum of ten
per cent. on the recovery, as in the next Section rescribed, for any
amount not exceeding two hundred dollars; an ad itional sum of five
per cent. for any additional amount not exceeding four hundred dollars;
and an additional sum of two per cent. for any additional amount not
exceeding one thousand dollars.

' And in the actions above named, if the same shall be settled before
judgment therein, like allowances upon the amount paid or secured upon
such settlement, at .one-half the rates above specified.

SEC. 335. These rates shall be estimated upon the value of the property claimed or attached or affected by the adjudication upon the will or

f other instrument, or sought to be partitioned, or the amount found due

a or unpaid upon the mortgage in an action for foreclosure. And whenever it shall be necessary to apply to the Court for an order enforcing
the payment of an installment falling due, after judgment, in an action
for foreclosure, the plaintifff shall be entitled to the rate of allowance in
the last Section prescribed, but to no more in the aggregate than if the
whole amount of the mortga e had been due when judgment was entered.
Such amount of value must determined by the Court or by the Commissioners, in case of actual partitions. In diflicult and extraordinary
cases, where a defense has been interposed, or in such cases where a trial
has been had, and in actions or proceedings for the partition of real estate, the Court may also, in its discretion, make a further allowance to
any party, not exceeding five per cent. upon the amount of the recovery
or claim, or subject-matter involved. ,

‘SEC. 336. When the judgment is for the recovery of money, interest,
from the time of the verdict or report until judgment be iinally entered, shall be computed by the Clerk, and added to the costs of the party
entitled thereto. ,

SEC. 337. The Clerk shall insert in the entry of judgment, on the
application of the prevailing party, u 11 five days’ notice to the other,
except when the attorneys reside in t e same city, village, or town, and

y then upon two days’ notice, the sum of the allowances for costs, as provided by this Code, the necessary disbursements, including the fees of
officers allowed by law, the fees of witnesses, the reasonable compensation
of commissioners in taking depositions, the fees of referees, and the expense of printing the papers for any hearing. when required by a rule of
the Court. The disbursements shall be stated in detail and verified by
affidavit. A copy of the items of the costs and disbursements shall be
served, with a notice of adjustment.

Whenever it shall be necessary to adjust costs in any interlocutory
proceeding in an action, or in any special proceedings, the same shall be
adjusted by the Judge before whom the same may be heard, or the Court
before which the same may be decided or pending, or in such other manner as the Judge or Court may direct.

SEC. 338. The Clerk shall receive:

On every trial, from the party bringing it on, two dollars; on filing .

transcript, twenty-live cents; 7
On entering judgment, iifty cents. .
He shall receive no other fee for any services whatever, in a civil

action, except for copies of papers, at the rate of ten cents for every hundred words. -SEC. 339. The fees of , referees shall be three dollars to each, for every 3

day spent in the business of the reference; but the parties may agree in
writing upon any other rate of compensation.

SEC. 340. When an application shall be made to a Court or referees to

postpone a trial, the payment to the advérse party of a sum not exceed- 1

ing ten dollars,‘ besides the fees of witnesses, may be imposed, as the condition of granting the postponement.

SEC. 341. Costs may be allowed on a motion, in the discretion of the
Court or Judge, not exceeding ten dollars, and -may be absolute or
directed to abide the event of the action.

SEC. 342. When costs are adjudged against an infant plaintifff, the
guardian by whom he appeared in the action shall be responsible there‘for, and payment thereof may be enforced by attachment.

SEC. 343. In. an action prosecuted or defended by an executor, administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by
statute, costs shall be recovered, as in an action by and against a person
prosecuting or defending in his own right; but such costs shall be
chargeable only u n or collected of the estate, fund, or party represented, unless the urt shall direct the same to be aid by the plaintiff ,
or defendant personally, for mismanagement or b faith in such action
or defense.

SEC. 344. When the decision of a Court of inferior jurisdiction in a
special proceeding, including appeals from Probate Courts, shall be
brought before the Circuit Court for review, such proceeding shall, for
all purposes of cost, be deemed an action at issue, on a question of law,
from the time the same shall be brought into Court, and costs thereon
shall be awarded and collected in such manner as the Court shall direct,
according to the nature of the case.

SEC. 345. In all civil actions, prosecuted in the name of the State, by
an officer duly authorized for that purpose, the State shall be liable for
costs in the same cases, and to the same extent as private arties. If a
private person be joined with the State as plaintifff, he sha 1 be liable in
the first instance for the defendant’s costs, which shall not be recovered
of the State till after execution issued therefore against such private party
and returned unsatisfied.

SEC. 346. In an action prosecuted in the name of the State, for the recovery of money or property, or to establish a right or claim for the benefit of any county, city, town, village, corporation or person, costs awarded
against the plaintifff shall be a charge against the party for whose benefit
the action was prosecuted, and not against the State.

SEC. 347. In actions in which the cause of action shall, by assi ment
after the commencement of the action, or in any other manner, ecome
the property of a person not a party to the action, such person shall be
liable for the costs in the same manner as if he were a party, and payment thereof may be enforced by attachment.

SEC. 348. Upon the settlement, before judgment, of any action mentioned in Section three hundred and thirty, no greater sum shall be
demanded from the defendant as costs than at the rates prescribed by

that Section.

LT

TITLE XI.
or APPEALS IN crvn. ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I. Appeals in general.
II. Appeals to the Supreme Court.
III. Appeal to the Circuit Court from an inferior Court.

 

CHAPTER I.

APPEALS IN GENERAL.

SEC. 349. Writs of error abolished, and appeals substituted.

350. Orders made out of Court, how vacated or modified.

351. “The may appeal.

352. Parties, how desi nated on appeal.

353. Appeal, how ma e. j

354. Clerk to transmit papers to Appellate Court.

355. Intermediate orders affecting the judgment may be reviewed

on the appeal from the judgment.
356. Judgment on appeal.
357. Time for appealing.

SEC. 349. Writs of error in civil and criminal actions, as they have
heretofore existed, are abolished; and the only mode of reviewing a
judgmelent or order in a civil or criminal action shall be that prescribed by
this tit e.

SEC. 350. An order, made out of Court, without notice to the adverse
party, may be vacated or modified, without notice, by the Judge who
made it, or may be vacated or modified on notice, in the manner in which
other motions are made.

hSEC.1351. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases prescribed in
t is tit e.

SEC. 352. The party appealing shall be known as the appellant, and
the adverse party as the respondent. But the title of the action shall
not be changed in consequence of the appeal.

SEC. 353. (1.) An appeal must be made by the service of a notice, in
writing, on the adverse party, and on the Clerk with whom the judgment
or order appealed from is entered, stating the appeal from the same or

just.

some specified part thereof. (2.) When a part shall give, in good faith,
notice of appeal from a judgment or order, an shall omit, through mistake, to do an other act necessary to perfect the appeal or to stay proceedings, the urt may permit an amendment on such tefms as may be

SEC. 354. If the appellant shall not, within twenty days after his appeal is perfected, cause a certified cop of the notice of appeal and of
the judgment roll, or, if the appeal be gem an order or any part thereof,
a certified copy of such order, and the papers upon which the order was
granted, to be transmitted to the Appellate Court by the Clerk with whom
the notice of ap eal is filed, the respondent may cause such certified copy
to be transmitte by such Clerk to the A pellate Court, and recover the expenses thereof, as a disbursement on we appeal, in case the judgment or
order appealed from shall be in whole or in part affirmed; and this provision shall apply to all appeals heretofore taken, where the a peal has
at been dismissed in the manner provided by the rules of the Appellate

urt. '

SEC. 355. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the Court may review
any intermediate order involving the merits, and necessarily affecting the

judgment.

SEC. 356. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the Appellate
Court may reverse, affirm or modify the judgment or order appealed
from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and as to any or
all of the parties, and may, if necessary or proper, order a new trial.
When the judgment is reversed or modified, the Appellate Court may
make complete restitution of all property and rights lost by the erroneous judgment.

SEC. 357. The a peal to the Sn reme Court under sub-division two of .
Section eleven of t 1s Code, must e taken within sixty days after writ- ‘
ten notice of the order shall have been given to the party appealing;

. every other appeal allowed by the second chapter of this title must be

taken within two years after the judgment shall be perfected by filing
the judgment roll.

CHAPTER II.

APPEALS TO THE SUPREME COURT.

SEC. 358. Appeal, in what cases.

359. On appeal, security must be given or deposit made, unless
waived.

360. On judgment for money, security to stay execution. New undertaking, on sureties in the first becoming insolvent.

361. If judgment be to deliver document or personal property, it
must be deposited or security given.

362. If judgment be to execute conveyance, it must be executed
and deposited.

363. Security where judgment is to deliver real property, or for a
sale of mortgaged premises.

SEC. 364. Sta of roceedings upon security being’ given.
365. Un erta ings may be in one instrument or several.
366. ‘Security to be approved and sureties to justify.
367. Perishable property ma be sold, notwithstanding appeal.
368. Undertaking must be ii ed.

SEC. 358. An appeal may be taken to the Supreme Court in the cases
mentioned in Section eleven. When the Circuit Court shall render judgment upon a verdict taken, subject to the opinion of the Court, the questions or conclusions of law, together with a concise statement of the facts
upon which they arose, shall be prepared by and under the direction of
the Court, and shall be filed with the judgment roll, and be deemed a
part thereof, for the purposes of a review in the Supreme Court.

The provisions of this Section shall apply to any. judgment therein
mentioned that has been heretofore rendered, and u on which an appeal
has been brought and is now pending, or upon w ich an ap eal shall
hereafter be brought. When the return has already been fil with the
Clerk of the Supreme Court such statement shall be filed with him, and
be deemed a art of such return.

SEC. 359. o render an appeal effectual for any purpose, a written undertaking must be executed on the art of the appellant by at least two
sureties, to the effect that the a pel ant will pay all costs and damages
which may be awarded against liim on the appeal, not exceeding three

hundred dollars, or that sum must be deposited with the Clerk with.

whom the ‘udgment or order was entered, to abide the event of the appeal. Suc undertaking or deposit may be waived by a written consent
on the part of the respondent.

SEC. 360. If the appeal be from a judgment directing the payment of
money, it shall not stay the execution of the judgment, unless a written
undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, by at least two
sureties, to the effect that, if the udgment appealed from, or an part
thereof, be affirmed, or the appeal be dismissed, the appellant w’ 1 pay
the amount directed to be paid by the judgment, or the part of such
amount as to which the judgment shall be affirmed, if it be affirmed only
in part, and all dama es which shall be awarded a ainst the appellant
upon the appeal. W enever it shall be made satis actorily to appear to
the Court that since the execution of the undertaking the sureties have
become insolvent, the Court may, by rule or order, require the appellant
to execute, file and serve a new undertaking as above; and in case of
neglect to execute such undertaking within twenty days after the service
of a copy of the ‘rule or order requiring such new undertaking, the ap
peal may, on motion to the Court, be dismissed with costs. Whenever it
shall be necessary for a party to any action or proceeding to give a bond
or an undertaking with surety or sureties, he may, in lieu thereof, deposit
with the officer or into Court, as the case may require, money to the
amount for which such bond or undertaking is to be given. The Court
in which such action or proceeding is pending may direct what disposition shall be made of such money, pending the action or proceeding. In
rig case where, b this Section, the money is to be deposited with an
o cer, a Judge 0 the Court, in term or at chambers, upon the application of either party, may, before such deposit is made, order it to be deposited in Court instead of with such oilicer; and a deposit made, pursuant to such order, shall be of the same eifect as if made with such
officer.

SEC. 361. If the judgment appealed from direct the assignment or delivery of documents or personal roperty, the execution of the judgment
shall not be stayed by appeal, un ess the things required to be assigned or
delivered be brought into Court, or placed in the custod of such officer
or receiver as the Court shall appoint, or unless an un ertaking be entered into on the part of the ap llant, by at least two sureties, and in
such amount as the Court, or a udge thereof, shall direct, to the effect
that the appellant will obey the order of the Appellate Court upon the
a eal.

PSEC. 362. If the judgment appealed from direct the execution of a
conveyance or other instrument, the execution of the judgment shall not
he stayed by the appeal until the instrument shall _have been executed
and de sited with the Clerk with whom the judgment is entered, to
abide t e jud ment of the Appellate Court.
~ SEC. 363. I the judgment appealed from direct the sale or delivery of
possession of real property, the execution of the same shall not be stayed,
unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, ”
with two sureties, to the effect that, during the possession of such property
by the appellant, he will not commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste
thereon, and that, if the judgment be affirmed, he will pay the value of
the use and occupation of the property, from the time of the appeal until
the delivery of possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment, not exceedring a sum to be lixed by a Judge of the Court by which judgment was
rendered, and which shall be specified in the undertaking. When the
judgment is for the sale of mortgaged remises, and the payment of a
deficiency arising u n the sale, the un ertaking shall also provide for
the payment of we deficiency.

SEC. 364. Whenever an ap al is perfected, as provided by Sections
three hundred and sixty, three undred and sixty—one, three hundred and
sixty-two, and three hundred and sixty-three, it stays all further proceedings in the Court below upon the judgment appealed from, or upon the
matter embraced therein; but the Court below may proceed upon any
other matter included in the action, and not affected by the judgment appealed from. And the Court below may, in its discretion, dispense with
or limit the security required by Sections three hundred and sixty, three
hundred and sixty-one and three hundred and sixty-three, when the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other person acting in
another’s right; and may . also limit such security to an amount not less
than lift thousand dollars, in the cases mentioned in Sections three hundred an sixty—one, three hundred and sixty-two, three hundred and sixty. three, where it would otherwise, according to those Sections, exceed that
sum. ,

SEC. 365. The undertakings prescribed by Sections three hundred and
iifty-nine, three hundred and sixty, three hundred and sixty-one, and
three hundred and sixty-three, may be in one instrument or several, at
the option of the appellant; and a copy, including the names and residence of the sureties, must be served on the adverse arty, with a notice of appeal, unless a deposit is made as provided in ction three hundred and fifty-nine, and notice thereof given. _

SEC. 366. _An undertaking upon an appeal shall be of no elfect, unless

it be -accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties that they are each
worth double the amount specified therein. The respondent may, however, except to the sufliciency of the sureties, within ten days after the notice of the appeal ; and unless they or other sureties 'ustify before a Judge
of the Court below, as prescribed by Sections two undred and ei hteen
and two hundred and nineteen, within ten days thereafter, the appeal shall
be regarded as if no undertaking had been given. The justification shall
be upon a notice of not less than live da s. .

SEC. 367. In the cases not provided or in Sections three hundred and
sixty, three hundred and sixty-one, three hundred and sixty-two, three
hundred and sixty-three, and three hundred and sixty-four, the perfecting of an ap 1, by giving the undertaking mentioned in Section three
hundred an fifty-nine, shall stay proceedings in the Court below upon
the judgment appealed from, except that, where it directs the sale of perishable property, the Court below may order the property to be sold, and
the proceeds thereof to be deposited or invested in this State or United
States bonds, to abide the judgment of the Appellate Court.

SEC. 368. The undertaking must be filed with the Clerk with whom the
judgment or order appealed from was entered. The provisions of this
chapter as to the security to be given upon appeals, and as to the stay of

proceedings, shall apply to appeals taken under sub-division three of Section eleven. .

A

CHAPTER III.

APPEAL TO THE CIRCUIT COURT FROM AN INFERIOR COURT.

SEC. 369. By what Courts judgments to be reviewed. New trial.

370. Appeal, when to be taken.

371. Notice of Zppeal to be served on Justice, and costs of return to

be pai .

372. Security to stay execution.

373. Form of undertaking.

374. Execution, how stayed.

375. In case of death of Justice, undertaking to be filed.
376. Filing in lieu of service of notice of appeal.

377. Return, when and how made and compelled.

378. How made if Justice be out of office.

379. Further return.

380. Justice dead, insane or absent.

381. Hearing u 11 return. .

382. Appeal to e heard on the original papers.

383. Judgment on appeal. New trial.

384. Judgment roll.

385. Costs, how awarded.

386. Restitution.

387. Setting of costs and recovery.

388. The costs on appeaL
SEC. 369. When a judgment is rendered‘ by a Trial J ustice’s Court;

by the County Commissioners, or any other inferior Court or jurisdiction,
save the Probate Court heretofore provided for in this Act, the appeal
shall be to the Circuit Court of the County wherein the judgment was
rendered. On such a peal, when the amount of the claim‘ or claims for
which judgment was emanded by either party in his pleadings in the
Court below shall exceed ten dollars, or when, in an action to recover the
possession of personal property, the value of the property as assessed and
the damages recovered shall exceed ten dollars, exclusive of costs, a new
trial shall be had in the Circuit Court in the following appellate cases:

1. When the judgment was rendered upon an issue of law joined
between the parties.

2. When it was rendered upon an issue of fact joined between parties, whether the defendant was present at the trial or not: Provided,
however, That the appellant may, in case where the amount for which
judgment is demanded by either party in his pleadings exceed ten dollars,
or where, in an action to recover the possession of personal property, the
value of the property as assessed and the damages recovered shall exceed
ten dollars, exclusive of costs, state in the notice of appeal that such
appeal is taken upon questions of law only, in which case a new trial shall
not be had in the Appellate Court, but the appeal shall be heard and determined in the same manner as if such amount, or said value and
damages were ten dollars or under.

SEC. 370. The appellant shall, within five days after jud ment, serve
a notice of appeal, stating the grounds upon which the appea is founded.
If the jud ment is rendered upon process not personally served, and the
defendant id not appear, he s all ave five days, after personal notice of
the judgment, to serve the notice of appeal provided for in this and the
next Section. «

SEC. 371. The notice of appeal must, within the same time, be served
on the Trial Justice personal , if living and within the County, or on his
Clerk, if there be one, and on the respondent personall , or by leaving it
at his residence, with some person of suitable age an discretion; or, in
case the respondent is not a resident of such County, or cannot, after due
diligence, be found therein, in the same manner, on the attorney or agent,
if any, who is a resident of such County, who appeared for the respondent
on the trial; and if neither the respondent, nor such agent or attorney
can be found in the Count , the notice ma be served on the respondent
by leaving it with the Cler of the Appe late Court; and the appellant
must, at the time of the service of the notice of ap l on the Trial
Justice or on his Clerk, as herein rovided, pay to sue Trial Justice or
Clerk the costs of the action inclu ed in the jud ent, together with two
dollars, costs of the return, which shall be inclu ed in the judgments for
costs on reversal. The appellant shall also execute, on the appeal, a
written undertaking on his part, with one or more sufiicient sureties, to
the effect that the appellant will pay all costs, disbursements and extra
costs, awarded against him in the Court below, if such judgment shall be
affirmed by the Appellate Court, on sucheappeal, together with all costs
and damages which may be awarded a ainst him thereon; such sureties
to justify in double the amount specific in the undertaking; such undertaking and the sufliciency of the sureties to be approved by the Trial Justice
of the Court below, or the appellant ma deposit, with the Clerk of the
Court of Common Pleas, the costs, dis ursements, and extra costs included in the judgment in the Court below, and the sum of
fifteen dollars, to meet any costs that may be awarded against him
on such appeal; the undertaking, when executed and approved, to be
filed with the Clerk of the Circuit Court; the amount so deposited shall
be repaid by the said Clerk to the ap llant, if he succeed on the appeal;
and in case the judgment be affirme , the said Clerk shall, after the execution is issued, pay over the amount, so deposited, to the res ondent, which
shall be credited on the execution issued on the judgment 0 afflrmance, to
the extent thereof, and the balance, if any, on the execution issued on the
judgment ap ealed from. '

SEC. 372. l’)Vhen, by the terms of Section three hundred and sixty-nine,

S the appellant is entitled to a new trial in the Appellate Court, he shall,

at the time of making the appeal, and in all other cases, if he desires a
sstézy of execution of the judgment, give security as provided in the next
ction. “

SEC. 373. The security shall be a written undertaking, executed by one
or more sufficient sureties, approved by the Court below, to the effect
that if judgment be rendered against the appellant, and execution thereon
be returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the sureties will pay the
amount unsatisfied.

SEC. 374. The delivery of the undertakin to the Court below shall
stay the issuing of execution; or, if it have een issued, the service of a
co y of the undertaking, certified by the Court below, upon the officer
ho ding the execution, shall stay further proceedin thereon.

SEC. 375. Where, by reason of the death of a lgrsial Justice, or his re’ moval from the County, or any other cause, the undertaking on the appeal

cannot be delivered to him, it shall be filed with the Clerk of the Appellate Court, and notice thereof given to the respondent, or his attorney or
agent, as provided in Section three hundred and fifty—four, it shall thereupon have the same effect as if delivered to the Trial Justice.
SEC. 376. When, by reason of the death of a Trial Justice, or his ab_ sence from the County, or any other cause, the notice of appeal cannot
, be served as provided by Section three hundred and seventy, it may be

served by leaving the same with the Clerk of the County.
SEC. 377. The Court below shall thereupon, after ten days, and within

a thirty days after service of the notice of appeal, make a return to the
1 Appellate Court of the testimon , proceedings and judgment, and file the

same In the Appellate Court. he return may be compelled by attachment. But no Justice of the Peace shall be bound to make a return
unless the fees prescribed by the last Section of this chapter be paid on
the service of the notice of appeal: Provided,’ however, That In cases
where the amount for which judgment is demanded by either arty in
his pleadings in the Court below exceeds ten dollars, or where t e value
of the propert recovered, as appears from the verdict or judgment, shall
exceed ten dol ars, the testimony need not be returned; but in such case,
the Court below shall return the process by which the action was commenced, with the proof of service thereof, and the pleadings or copies
thereof, the proceedings and judgment, together with a brief statement
of the amount and nature of the claim or claims liti ated by the respective parties, and in all cases the notice of ‘appeal sha I be annexed to the
return; but in cases where the appellant shall, in accordance with the
provisions of Section three hundred and sixty-nine of this Act, state in

the notice of a peal that such appeal is taken upon questions of law
only, the Court low shall return to the Appellate Court the testimony,
proceedings, and jud ment.

SEC. 378. When a Trial Justice, by whom a judgment appealed from

was rendered, shall have gone out of office before a return is ordered, he i

shall, nevertheless, make a return in the same manner, and with the like
effect, as if he were still in office.

SEC. 379. If the return be defective, the Appellate Court may direct a
further or amended return as often as may be necessary, and ma compel
a compliance with its order byattachment. And the Court sha 1 always
be deemed open for these purposes.

SEC. 380. If a Trial Justice whose judgment is appealed from shall die,
become insane, or remove from the State, the Appellate Court may examine witnesses on oath, to the facts and circumstances of the trial or
judgment, and determine the appeal, as if the facts had been returned
by the Trial Justice. If he shall have removed to another County
within the State, the Appellate Court may compel him to make the return, as if he were still within the County where the judgment was rendered. \

SEC. 381. If a return he made, and the appeal is from a judgment
where a new trial may not be had, as provided by this chapter, it may
be brought to a hearing, upon notice by either party of not less than
eight days. It shall be placed upon the calendar, and continue thereon
without further notice until finally disposed of. But if neither part
bring it to a hearing before the end of the second term, the Court sha 1
dismiss the appeal, unless it continue the same by special order, for cause
shown. If the appeal is from a judgment where a new trial may be had,
it may be brou ht to a hearing or trial at any term of the Court at which
a petit jury sha 1 be summoned to attend, at least eight days before the
Court, the party desiring to bring on the appeal shall serve a note of issue on the Clerk, and the Clerk shall thereupon enter the cause on the
calendar, according to the date of the return.

And the provisions of this chapter for a new trial shall apply as well
Bo appeals heretofore taken and now pending, as those hereafter to be

rou t.

819%. 382. The a peal shall be heard on the original papers, and no
copy thereof need furnished for the use of the Court.

SEC. 383. Upon hearing the appeal, the Appellate Court shall ive
judgment according to the justice of the case, without regard to tec nical errors and defects which do not affect the merits. In giving judgment
the Court may affirm or reverse the judgment of the Court below, in
whole or in part, and as to any or all the parties, and for errors of law
or fact. If the appeal is founded on an error in fact in the proceedings,
not affecting the merits of the action, and not within the knowledge of
the Trial Justice, the Court may determine the alleged error in fact on
affidavits, and may, in its discretion, inquire into and determine the same
upon examination of the witnesses. If the defendant failed to appear
before the Trial Justice, and it is shown by the affidavits served by the
appellant, or otherwise, that manifest injustice has been done, and he satisfactorily excuses his default, the Court may, in its discretion, set aside
or suspend judgment, and order a new trial before the same or any other
Trial Justice in the same County, at such time and place, and on such

terms, as the Court may deem proper. Where a new trial shall be ordered before a Trial Justice, the arties must appear before him according to the order of the Court, an the same proceedings must thereupon
be had in the action as on the return of a summons personally served. If
the appeal shall be from a jud ment in which a new trial may be had, as
in this chapter provided, the urt shall roceed to the hearing of the
cause, if the issue 'oined before the Trial ustice was an issue of law, or
to the trial thereo by 'ury,if such issue was upon a question of fact.

1. If the issue join before the Trial Justice was an imue of law, the
Court shall render judgment thereon according to the law of the case;
and if such 'ud ment be against the pleadings of either party, an amendment of suc pleading may be allowed on the same terms, and in like
case, as pleadings in actions in the Circuit Court, and the Court may
thereupon re uire the op osite party to answer such amended pleading,
or 'oin issue t ereon, as t e case may require, summarily.

. If, upon an appeal in an issue of law, the Court should adjudge the
pleading complained of to be valid, it shall, in like manner, require the
opposite party summarily to answer such pleading, or join issue thereon,
as the case may require.

3. Upon an issue of fact being so joined, the Court shall proceed to
hear the same trial by a jury in the same manner as issues joined in the
Circuit Court. '

4. Every issue of fact so joined or brought upon ‘an appeal shall
gs) tried in the same manner as in actions commenced in the Circuit

urt.

5. The Court shall have the same power over its own determinations,
and the verdict of the jury, and shall render judgment thereon in the same
manner as the Circuit Court in actions pending therein, and may allow
either party to amend his pleadings upon such terms as shall be just in
cases where a new trial may be had, as in this chapter provided; and in
any such appeal on which a new trial is to be had, either party may, at
any time be ore the trial, serve upon the opposite party an offer, in writing,
to allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum or property, or to
the effect in such offer specified, and with or without costs, as said offer
shall specify. If the party receiving such offer accept the same, and give
notice therwf in writing within ten days, he may file the return and offer,
with an affidavit of service of notice of acceptance thereof, and the Clerk
shall thereupon enter judgment according to said offer. And if the arty
making such offer shall have given an undertaking upon the appea , the
parties executing such undertaking shall be liable thereon for the payment
of the judgment entered by virtue of said offer. If the notice of acceptance
be not given, the offer is to be deemed withdrawn, and cannot be given
in evidence. And, if the party to whom such offer is made fail to obtain
a jud ent more favorable to him than that specified in said offer, then
he sha 1 not recover costs, but must pay the other party’s costs from the
date of the service of the offer.

6. Either party may move for a new trial in said Court on a case or
exception, or otherwise, and such motion may be made before or after
judgment has been entered; and the provisions of this Act in re1ation’to
the proceedings on receiving the verdict of a jury, exceptions to the decisions of the Court, making and settling cases and exceptions, ‘motions for
new‘ trials, and making up the judgment-roll in the Circuit Court, are

hereby made applicable to all appeals brought up for trial, as in this chapter provided.

SEC. -384. To every judgment upon an appeal there shall be annexed

the return on which it was heard, the notice of appeal, with any offer, ,
verdict, decision of the Court, exceptions, case, and all orders and papers

in any way involving the merits and necessarily affecting the judgment,
1

which sha be filed with the Clerk of the Court, and shall constitute the
judgment-roll.

SEC. 385. If the judgment be affirmed, costs shall be awarded to the

respondent. If it be reversed, costs shall be awarded to the appellant. ‘

If it be affirmed in part, the costs, or such part as to the Court shall seem
just, may be awarded to either party.

SEC. 386. If the judgment below, or any part thereof, be paid or collected, and the judgment be afterwards reversed, the Appellate Court shall
order the amount paid or collected to be restored, with interest from the
time of such payment or collection. The order may be obtained on proof
of the facts made at or after the hearing, upon a previous notice of six
days ; and if the order shall be made before the judgment is entered, the
amount may be included in the judgment.

SEC. 387. If, upon an appeal, a recovery be had by one party, and costs
be awarded to the other, the Appellate Court shall set off the one against
the other, and render judgment for the balance. 1

SEC. 388. Costs shall be allowed to the prevailing party, in judgments
rendered on appeal, in all cases, with the following exceptions and limitations: In the notice of appeal, the appellant shall state in what particular
or particulars he claims the judgment should have been more favorable to
him. If he claims that the amount of judgment is less favorable to him
than it should have been, he shall state what should have been its amount.
Within fifteen days after the service of the notice of appeal, the respondent ma serve upon the appellant and Trial Justice an offer, in writing, to a low the judgment to be corrected in any of the particulars mentioned in the notice of appeal. The ap ellant may thereupon, and within
five days thereafter, file with the Trial ustice a written acceptance of such
offer, who shall thereupon make a minute thereof in his docket, and correct
such judgment accordingly, and the same, so corrected, shall stand as his
judgment, and be enforced accordingly ; and any execution which has been
issued upon the judgment appealed from shall be amended by the Trial Justice to correspond with the amended judgment; and no undertakin given to
stay execution shall be enforced for more than the amount 0 the corrected judgment. If such offer be not made, and the judgment in the
Appellate Court be more favorable to the appellant than the judgment in
the Court below, or if such offer be made and not accepted, and the judgment in the Appellate Court be more favorable to the appellant than the
offer of the respondent, the a pellant shall recover costs : Provided, however, That the appellant sha 1 not recover costs unless the judgment a
pealed from shall be reversed on such ap 1, or be made more favorab e
to him, to the amount of at least ten dol ars. If the offer be made, and
accepted by the appellant, the appellant shall recover all his disbursements on appeal, and all his costs in the Court below. But the appellant
shall not recover costs, except as provided in this chapter. The respondent shall be entitled to recover costs where the ap llant is not. Whenever costs are awarded to the appellant, he sh 1 be allowed to tax as

part thereof the costs and fees aid to the Trial Justice, on making the
appeal, as disbursements, in ad ition to the costs in the Appellate Court;
and when the judgment in the suit before the Court below was against
such appellant, he shall further be allowed to tax the costs incurred by
him which he would have been entitled to recover in case the judgment
below has been rendered in his favor. If, upon an appeal, a recovery for
any debt or damages be had by one party, and costs be awarded to the
other party, the Court shall set off such costs against such debt or damages, and render judgment for the balance. The following fees and costs,
and no other, except fees of officers, disbursements and witnesses’ fees,
shall be allowed, on appeal, to the arty entitled to costs, as herein provided, when the new trial is in the ' cuit Court: For procwdings before
notice of trial, five dollars; for all subsequent proceedings before trial,
three dollars ;' for trial of an issue of law, five dollars ; for every trial of
an issue of fact, seven dollars; for ar ment of a motion for a new trial
on a case or a bill of exceptions, five dblllars ; in all cases, to either party,
for every term, not exceedin five, at which the a peal is necessarily on
the calendar, and is not tri or is not post oned y the Court, five dollars. In other ap eals the costs shall be as ollows: To the appellant, on
reversal, seven do lars; to the respondent, on the affirmance, seven dollars. If the judgment appealed from be reversed in part and affirmed as
to the residue, the amount of costs allowed to either party shall be such
sum as the Appellate Court may award, not exceeding five dollars. If
the appeal he ismissed for want of prosecution, as provided by Section
three hundred and eighty-one, no costs shall be allowed to either party.
In every appeal, the Court below, before whom the judgment appealed
from was rendered, shall receive one dollar for his return. If the judgment be reversed for an error ‘of fact in the proceedin s, not affecting
the merits, costs shall be in the discretion of the Court. f, in the notice
of appeal, the appellant shall not state in what particular or particulars
he claims the 'udgment should have been more favorable to him, he shall
not be Entitled to costs unless the judgment appealed from shall be wholly
reverse .

TITLE XII.

or arm: /MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS, AND GENERAL rnovrsrons.

CHAPTER I. Submitting a controversy without action.
II. Proceedings against joint debtors, heirs, legatees, devisees,
and tenants holding under a judgment debtor.
III. Confession of a judgment without action.
TV. Offers of the defendant to compromise the whole or a part
of the action.
V. Admission or inspection of writings.
VI. Examination of parties.
VII. Examination of witnesses.
VIII. Motions and orders.
IX. Entitling affidavits.

CHAPTER X. Computation of time.
XI. Notices, and tiling and service of papers.

XII. Duties of Sheriffs and Coroners.

XIII. Accountability of Guardians.

XIV. Powers of Referees.
XV. Miscellaneous provisions.

CHAPTER I.
_sUBmTTINo A coNTnovEasY WITHOUT AcT1oN..

SEC. 389. Controversy, how submitted without action.
390. Judgment, how enforced. ~

391. Judgment, how enforced or appealed from.

SEC. 389. Parties to a question in difference, which might be the sub
ject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case containing
the facts upon which the controvers depends, and present a submission
of the same to any Court which won d have jurisdiction if an action had
been brought. But it must appear by affidavit that the controversy is
real, and the proceeding in good faith, to determine the rights of the
parties. The Court shall thereupon hear and determine the case, and
render judgment thereon, as if an action were depending. V

SEC. 390. Judgment shall be entered in the judgment-book, as in other
cases, but without costs for any proceeding prior to notice of trial. The
case, the submission, and a copy of the judgment, shall constitute the
judgment-roll. ’

S1-30. 391. The judgment may be enforced in‘ the same manner as if it

had been rendered in an action, and shall be subject to appeal in like
manner. '

Q——j-gnu.

CHAPTER II. S

PROCEEDINGS AGAINST JoINT DE_BToRs, HEIRS, DEVISEES, LEGATEES, AND
TENANTB HOLDING UNDER A JUDGMENT DEBTOR.

SEC. 392. Parties, not summoned in action on joint contract, may be
. summoned after judgment. _

393. If judgment debtor die, his representative may be summoned.
394. Form of summons. I
395. Summons to be accompanied by affidavit of amount due.
396. Party summoned may answer and defend._
397. Subsequent pleadings and proceedings the same as in an action.
398. Answer and reply to be verified as in an action.

SEC. 392. When a judgment shall be recovered against one or more of
several persons jointly indebted upon a contract, by proceeding as provided in Section one hundred and fifty-nine, those who were not originally
summoned to answer the complaint ma be summoned to show cause why
they should not be bound by the ju gment, in the same manner as if
they had been originally summoned.

SEC. 393. In case of the death of a 'udgment debtor after judgment,
the heirs, devisees or legatees of the ‘u gment debtor, or the tenants of
real property owned by him and afflected by the judgment, may, at any
time within three‘ years from the time of granting letters testamentary or of
administration u n the estate of the testator or intestate, be summoned
to show cause w y the judgment should not be enforced against the
estate of the judgment debtor in their hands respectively; and the personal representatives of a deceased judgment debtor may be summoned
at any time within one year after their appointment. '

SEC. 394. The summons provided in the last two Sections shall be subscribed by the judgment creditor, his representative or attorney, shall

describe the judgment, and require the person summoned to show cause

-within twenty days after the service of the summons; and shall be served

in like manner as the original summonsSEC, 395. The summons shall be accom nied b an aiiidavit of the

person subscribing it, that the judgment as not en satisfied, to his
nowledge or information and belief, and shall specify the amount due
thereon.

SEC. 396. Upon such summons any party summoned may answer within
the time specified therein, denying the judgment. or setting up any defense
thereto which may have arisen subsequently to such judgment; and in
addition thereto, if the party be proceeded against according to Section
three hundred and ninety-two, he may make any defense which he might
have made to the action if , the summons had been served on him at the
time when the same was originally commenced and such defense had
been then interposed to such action.

SEC. 397. The party issuing the summons ma demur or reply to the
answer,‘and the party summoned may demur to t e reply; and the issues
may be tried and jud ment may be given in the same manner as in an
action, and enforced y execution; or the application of the property
charged to the payment of the judgment may be compelled by attachment, if necessary.

SEC. 398. The answer and reply shall be verified in the like .cases and
manner, and be subject to the same rules, as the answer and reply in an
action.

CHAPTER III.

COITFESSION OF JUDGMENT WITHOUT ACTION.

SEC. 399. Judgment may be confessed for debt due or for contingent
liability.
400. Statement in writing, and form thereof.
401. Judgment and execution.

_ SEC. 399. A judgment b confession may be entered, without action,
either for money due, or to ecome due, or to secure any person against

contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both, in the manner
prescribed by this chapter. .

SEC. 400. A statement in writing must be made, signed by the defendant, and verified by his oath, to the following effect: ' .

1. It must state the amount for which judgment may be entered, and
authorize the entry of judgment therefore.

2. If it be for money due or to become due, it must state concisely the
facts out of which it arose, and must show that the sum confessed therefore is justly due or to become due.

3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintifff ‘against a contingent liability, it must state concisely the facts constituting the liability,
and must show that the sum confessed therefore does not exceed the
same. .

SEC. 401. The statement may be filed with a County Clerk, who shall
endorse upon it, and enter in the Judgment Book a judgment for the
amount confessed, with five dollars costs, together with disbursements.
The statement and affidavit, with the judgment endorsed, shall thereupon

‘become the judgment roll. Executions may be issued and enforced

thereon, in the same manner as upon judgments in other cases in such
Courts. When the debt for which the judgment is recovered is not all
due, or is payable in installments, and the installments are not all due,
the execution may issue upon such judgment for the collection of such
installments as have become due, and‘ shall be in the usual form, but
shall have endorsed thereon, by the attorney or person issuing the same,
a direction to the Sheriff to collect the amount due on such judgment, with
interest and costs, which amount shall be stated, with interest thereon,
and the costs of said judgment. Notwithstanding the issue and collection of such execution, the judgment shall remain as security for the installments thereafter to become due; and ‘whenever any further installments become due execution may, in like manner, be issued for the collection and enforcement of the same.

_/

CHAPTER IV.

OFFER OF THE A DEFENDANT TO COMPROMISE THE WHOLE OR A PART
OF THE ACTION. SEC. 402. Offer of compromise.
403. Defendant may oE’er to liquidate damages.
404. Effect of acceptance or refusal of oE’er.

SEC. 402. The defendant may, at any time before the trial or verdict,

serve upon the plaintifff an offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken 3

against him for the sum or property, or to the effect therein specihed, with
costs. If the plaintifff accept’ the offer, and give notice thereof in writing within ten days, he may file the summons, complaint and oE’er, with
an affidavit of notice of acce tance, ‘and the Clerk must thereupon enter
judgment accordingly. If t e notice of acceptance be not given, the
offer is to be deemed withdrawn, and cannot be given in evidence; and
if the plaintifff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment, he cannot recover costs, but must pay the defendant’s costs from the time of the offer;
and in case the defen ant shall set up a counterclaim in his answer to
an amount greater than the plaintifff '3 claim, or sufficient to reduce the
plaintiii"s recovery below fifty dollars, then the plaintifff may serve upon
the defendant an offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken against
him for the amount specified, or to allow said counterclaim to the amount
s ecified, with costs. If the defendant accept the offer, and give notice
tliereof in writing within ten days, he may enter judgment as above for
the amount specified, if the offer entitled him to judgment, or the amount
s cified in said offer shall be allowed him in the trial of the action. If
t e notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is to be deemed withdrawn, and cannot be given in evidence; and if the defendant fail to recover a more favorable judgment, or to establish his counterclaim for a
greater amount than is (specified in said offer, he cannot recover costs,
but must pay the plainti ’s costs from the time of the offer.

SEC. 403. In“ anaction arising on contract, the defendant may, with
his answer, serve upon the plaintifff an offer in writing, that if he fail in
his defense, the damages be assessed at a specified sum; and if the plaintifff signify his acceptance thereof in writing, with or before the notice of
trial, and on the trial have averdict, the i damages shall be assessed accordingly.

SEC. 404. If the plaintifff do not acce t the offer, he shall prove his
damages as if it had not been made, an shall not be permitted to give
it in evidence. And if the damages assessed in his favor shall not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, the defendant shall recover his expenses incurred in consequence of any necessary preparation or defense
in respect Ito the question of damages. Such expense shall be ascertained
at the tria . l a

CHAPTER V.

ADMISSION OR INSPECTION OF WRITINGS.

SEC. 405. Either party may exhibit to the other, or to his atltorney, at any time before the trial, any paper material to the
‘action, and request an admission in Writing of its enuineness. If

the adverse party, or his attorne , fail to give the a mission, within
four days after the request, an if the party‘ exhibiting the paper
he afterwards put to expense in order to prove its genuineness, and the
same be final] proved or. admitted on the trial, such expense, to be ascertained at the trial, shall be paid by the party refusing the admission,
unless it appear to the satisfaction of the Court that there were good reasons for the refusal. The Court before which an action is pending, or a
Judge or Justice thereof, may, in their discretion, and upon due notice,
order either party to give to the other, within a specified time, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy, of any books, papers and documents in his possession or under his control, containin evidence relating
to the merits of the action or the defense therein. f compliance with
the order be refused, the Court, on motion, may exclude the paper from

being given in evidence, or punish the party refusing, or both.

CHAPTER VI.
EXAMINATION or mnrrns.

SEO. 406. Action for discovery abolished.

407. A party may examine his adversary as a witness.

408. Such examination also allowed before trial. Proceeding
therefore.

409. Party, how compelled to attend.

410. Testimony of party may be rebutted.

411. Effect of refusal to testify. »

412. Testimony of a party not responsive to the inquiries maybe
rebutted by the oath of the party calling him.

413. Persons for whom action is brought or defended may be examined. A

414. Examination of co-plaintifff or co-defendant.

SEC. 406. No action to obtain discove under oath, in aid of the prosecution or defense of another action, sha be allowed, nor shall any examination of a party be had, on behalf of the adverse party, except in
the manner prescribed by this chapter.

SEC. 407. A party to an action may be examined as a witness, at the
instance of the adverse party, or of any one of several adverse parties,
and for that purpose may be compelled, in the same manner, and subject
to the same rules of examination as any other witness, to testify, either at
the trial, or conditionally, or upon commission.

SEC. 408. The examination, instead of being had at the trial, as provided in the last Section, may be had at an time before the trial, at the
option of the party claiming it, before a Jhdge of the Court, on a previous notice to the rty to be examined, and any other adverse party, of at
least five days, ess, for good cause shown, the Judge order otherwise.
But the party to be examined shall not be compelled to attend in an
other County than that of his residence, or where he may be served with
a summons for his attendance. ‘

SEC. 409. The arty to be examined, as in the last Section provided,
may be compell to attend in ‘the same manner as a witness who is to
be examined conditionally; and the examination shall be taken and
filed by the Judge in like manner, and may be read by either party on
the trial.

SEC. 410. The examination of the party, thus taken, may be rebutted
by adverse testimony. 0

SEC. 411. If a party refuse to attend and testify, as in the last four Sections provided, he ma be punished as for a contempt, and his complaint,
answer or reply may stricken out. ~

SEC. 412. A arty examined by an adverse party, as in this chapter
provided, may he examined on his own behalf, subject to the same rules
of examination as other witnesses. But if he testify to any new matter,
not responsive to the in uiries put to him by the adverse party, or necessary to explain or quali his answers thereto, or dischar when his answers would charge himself, such adverse arty may ogr himself as a
witness on his own behalf in respect to sue new matter, subject to the
same rules of examination as other witnesses, and shall be so received.

SEC. 413. A person for whose immediate benefit the action is prose‘-'
cuted or defended, though not a party to the action, may be examined as
a witness, in the same manner, and subject to the same rules of examination, as if he were named as a party. ~

SEC. 414. A party may be examined on behalf of his co-plaintifff, or of
a co-defendant, as to any matter in which he is not jointly interested or
liable with such co-plaintifff or co-defendant; and as to which a separate
and not joint verdict or judgment can be ren ered. And he may be compelled to attend in the same manner as at the instance of an adverse
party; but the examination thus taken shall not be used in the behalf of
the party examined. And whenever, in the case mentioned in Sections four
hundred and seven and four hundred and eight, one of the several plaintifffs or defendants who are joint contractors, or are united in interest, is
examined by the adverse party, the other of such plaintifffs or defendants
may oifer himself as a witness to the same cause or action or defense, and

shall be so received.

CHAPTER VII.
EXAMINATION or wrrmzssns.

SEC. 414. Interest not to exclude awitness.
415. Parties to actions and special proceedings may be -witnesses
on their own behalf, except in certain cases.

SEC. 414. No person offered as a witness shall be excluded by reason of
his interest in the event of the action.

SEC. 415. A party to an action or special proceeding in any and all
Courts,.and before any and all officers and persons actin judicially, may
be examined as a witness on his own behalf, or in behalf 0% any other party,
conditionally, on commission and _upon the trial or hearing in the case,
in the same manner and subject to the same rules of examination as an
other witness‘: Provided, however, That no party to the action‘ or procee ing, nor any person who has ,a legal or equitable interest which may be
affected by the event of the action or proceeding, nor an person who, previous to such examination, has had such an interest, owever the same
may have been transferred to or come to the party to the action or proceeding, nor any assignor of anything in controversy in the action, shall
be examined in regard to any transaction or communication between such
witness and a person, at the time of such examination, deceased, insane or
Iunatic, as a wltness against a party then prosecutin or defending the action as executor, admmistrator, heir-at-law, next-ofi in, assignee, legatee,
devisee, or survivor of such deceased person, or as assignee or committee
of such insane person or lunatic, when such examination or any judgment or determination in such action or proceeding, can in any manner
affect the interest of such witness or the interest previously owned or represented by him. But when such executor, administrator, heir-at-law, nextof-kin, assignee, le tee, devisee, survivor or committee shall be examined on his own he alf in regard to such transaction or communication,
or the testimony of such deceased or insane person or lunatic in regard to

such transaction or communication, owever the same may have been
perpetuated or made competent,) shal be given in evidence on the trial
or hearing in behalf of such executor, administrator, heir-at-law, next-ofkin, assignee, legatee, devisee, survivor or committee, then all other persons not otherwise rendered incompetent shall be made competent witnesses in relation to such transaction or communication on said trial or
hearing. Nothing contained in Section eight of this Act shall be held or
construed to affect or restrain the operation of this Section.

1. In any trial or inquiry in any suit, action or roceeding in any Court,
or before any person havin , by law or consent of) parties, authority to examine witnesses or hear evi ence, the husband or wife of any party thereto,
or of any person in whose behalf an such suit, action or proceeding is
brought, prosecuted, op sed or de ended shall, except as hereinafter
stated, be competent an compellable to give evidence, the same as any
other witness, on behalf of any party to such suit, action or proceeding.

2. Nothing herein contained shall render any husband or wife competent or compellable to give evidence for or against the other in any criminal action or proceeding, (except to prove the fact of marriage in case of
bigamy,) or in any action or -proceedin instituted in consequence of
adultery, or in any action or proceeding for divorce on account of adultery, (except to prove the fact of marriage,) or in any action or proceeding
for or on account of criminal conversation. ”

3. No husband or wife shall be compellable to disclose any confidential
communication made by one to the other during their marriage.

  CHAPTER VIII.

MOTIONS AND ORDERS.

SEC. 416. Definition of an order.

417. Definition of a motion. Motions, how and when made. Stay
of proceedings. Compelling parties to testify on motions.
Decision on motion.

418. Notice of motion.

419. In absence, &c., of Judge at chambers, motion may be transferred to another Judge.

420. Enlarging time for the procedings in an action.

SEC. 416. Every direction of a Court or Judge, made or entered in
writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order.

SEC. 417. (1.) An application for an order is a motion.

(2.) Motions may be made to a Judge or Justice out of Court, except
for a new trial on the merits. ' ‘

(3.) Orders made out of Court, without notice, may be made by the
Judge of the Court, in any part of the State.

(4.) Motions upon notice must be made within the Circuit in which the
action is triable, or, in the absence or inability of the Judge of the Cir_cuit, malyl be made before the Judge of a Circuit adjoining that in which
it is tria e. ~

(5.) Agmotion to modify or vacate a provisional remedy, and an appeal

from an order allowing a provisional remedy, shall have preference over
all other motions.

(6.) No order to sta roceedings for a longer time than twenty days
shall be granted by a u ge out of Court, except upon previous notice to
the adverse party. .,

(7.) When any arty intends to make or oppose a motion in any Court
of record, and it s all be necessary for him to have the affidavit of any
person who shall have refused to make the same, such Court may, by
order, appoint a referee to take the affidavit or deposition of such person.
Such person may be subpoenaed and com elled to attend and make an
affidavit before such referee, the same as be ore a referee to whom it is referred to try an issue. And the fees of such referee for such service shall
be three dollars per day.

(8.) Whenever a motion shall be made in any cause or proceeding in
any of the Courts in this State, to obtain an injunction order, order of
arrest, or warrant of attachment, granted in any such case or proceeding,
it shall be the duty of the Judge, Trial Justice, or other officer, before
whom such motion is made, to render and make known his decision on
such motion within twenty days after the day upon which such motion
shall or may be submitted to him for his decision.

SEC. 418 When a notice of a motion is necessary, it must be served
four days before the time appointed for the hearing; but the Court or
Judge may, b anorder to show cause, prescribe" a shorter time.

SEC. 419. a hen notice of a motion is given, or an order to show cause
is returnable before a Judge out of Court, and at the time fixed for the
motion he is absent or unable to hear it, the same may be transferred, by
his order, to some other Judge, before whom the motion, in case of his
absence or inability, might originally have been made.

SEC. 420. The time within which any proceeding in an action must be
had, after its commencement, except the time within which an appeal
must be taken, may be enlarged, upon an aiiidavit showing grounds therefore, by a Judge of the Circuit Court. The affidavit, or a copy thereof,

must be served with a copy of the order, or the order may ‘be disregarded. '

CHAPTER IX.

ENTITLIN G AFFIDAVITB.

SEC. 421. It shall not be necessary to entitle an affidavit in the action,
but an affidavit made without a title, or with a defective title, shall be as
valid and effectual, for every purpose, as if it were duly entitled, if it
intelligibly refer to the action or proceeding in which it is made.

CHAPTER X.

COMPUTATION OF TIME.

SEC. 422. The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall be computed by excluding the first dgy and including the
last. If the last day be Sunday, it shall be exclud .

CHAPTER XL

NOTICES AND FILING AND SERVICE OF PAPERS.

SEC. 423. Notices, &c., how served.

424. Service, how made.

425. Service by mail.

426. The like.

427. Double time Where service by mail. .
428. Notice of motion, &c., where personally served.
429. When pa rs need not be served on defendant.
430. Service 0 pa rs where parties reside out of the State.
431. Summons an pleadings to be filed.

432. Service on attorney.

433. When this chapter does not apply.

SEC. 423. Notices shall be in writing; and notices ahd other papers
may be served on -the party or attorney, in the manner prescribed in the
next three Sections, where not otherwise rovided b this Act.

SEC. 424. The service may be perso , or by (1 ‘very to the party or
atfprney on whom the service is required to be made; or it may be as
fo ows:

1. If upon an attorney, it may be made, during his absence from his
office, by leaving it with the clerk therein, or with a person having
charge thereof; or, when there is no person in the ofliee, by leaving it,
between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening, in a
conspicuous place in the office; or, if it be not open so as to admit of
such service, then by leaving it at the attorney’s residence, with some person of suitable age and discretion. '

2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the paper at his residence between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening,
with some person of suitable age and discretion.

SEC. 425. Service by mail may be made where the person makin the
service and the person on whom it is to be made reside in different pfaces,
between which there is a regular communication by mail.

SEC. 426. In case of service by mail, the paper must be deposited in
the post office, addressed to the person dn whom it is to be served, at his
place of residence, and the postage paid.

SEC. 427 . When the service is by mail, it shall be double the time required in cases of personal service, except service of notice of trial, which
may_ be made sixteen days before the day of trial, including the day of
service.

SEC. 428. Notice of a motion or other proceeding before a Court or
Judge, when personally served, shall be given at least four days before
the time a pointed therefore.

SEC. 42$ When a defendant shall not have demurred or answered, service of notice or papers in the ordinary proceedings in an action, need

not be made upon him, unless he be imprisoned for want of a bail, but shall

be made upon him or his attorney, if notice of appearance in the action
has been given. a

SEC. 430. Where a plaintifff or a defendant who has demurred or answered, or gives notice of a pearance, resides out of the State, and has
no attorney in the action, e service m be made by mail, if his residence be known; if not known, on the Cler , for the party. \

SEC. 431. The summons and the several pleadings in an action shall
be filed with the Clerk within ten days aher the service thereof, res tively; or the adverse party, on proof of the omission, shall be entit ed,
without notice, to an order from a Jud e that the same be filed within a
time to be specified in the order, or be eemed abandoned.

SEC. 432. Where a party shall have an attorney in the action, the service of pa rs shall be made upon the attorney, instead of the party.
SEC. 43 . The provisions of this cha tershall not apply to the service

of a summons or other process, or 0 any paper to ring a party into
contempt.

2-1-22:

CHAPTER XII.

DUTIES OF BHEBIFFB AND COBONER8.

SEC. 434. Whenever, pursuant to this Act, the Sheriff may be required
to serve or execute any summons, order or judgment, or to do any other
act, he shall be bound to do so in like manner as upon process issued to
him, and shall be equally liable in all res ts for neglect of duty; and
if the Sheriff be.a party, the Coroner sh be bound to perform the service, as he is now bound to execute process where the Sheriff is a party;

and all the provisions of this Act relating to_ Sheriffs shall apply to Coro—
ners where t e Sheriff is a party. CHAPTER XIII.

A(X}OUN'.l‘ABILI'l'Y OF GUARDIANB.

SEC. 435. No guardian appointed for an infant shall be permitted to
receive property) of the infant until he shall have 'ven suiiicient security,

approved by a robate Judge, to account for apply thesame under
the direction of the Court. ‘

CHAPTER XIV.

rownns or nnrnnnns.

SEC. 436. Every referee appointed pursuant to this Act shall have
power to administer oaths in any proceedings before him, and shall have
generally the powers new vested in a referee by law.

CHAPTER XV.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

SEC. 437. Igppers lost or withheld, how supplied.
6 s

438. re undertakings to be filed.
439. Judgment on bond and warrant of attorney, executed before
J anua 1, 1870.

440. Time for pu lication of notices, how computed.
441. Laws of other States and governments, how proved.

SEO. 437. If an original pleading or paper be lost or withheld by any
person, the Court may authorize a copy thereof to be filed and used
instead of the original.

SEC. 438. The various undertakin required to be given by this Act
must be filed with the Clerk of the urt, unless the Court expressly provides for a different disposition thereof, exce t that the undertakings provided for by the chapter on the claim and elivery of personal roperty,
shall, after the justification of the sureties, be delivered by the S eriifs to
the parties res ctively for whose benefit they are taken.

SEO. 439. pon any bond and warrant of attorney, executed and delivered before the first day of January, 1870, judgment may be entered
in the manner prescribed by Sections ‘three hundred and ninet -nine,
four hundred, four hundred and one, upon the plaintifff’s iilin suc bond
and warrant of attorne , and the statement, signed and ver' ed by himself, in the form presc ' d b Section three hundred and ninety-nine.

SEC. 440. The time for pu lication of legal notices shall be computed
so as to exclude the first day of publication, and include the day on which
the act or event, of which notice is °ven, is to happen, or which completes the full period required for pu lication.

SEC. 441. Printed copies in volumes of statutes, code or other written
law enacted by any other State or Territory, or foreign Government,
purportin or proved to have been published by the authority thereof, or
proved to commonly admitted as evidence of the existin law in the
Courts and judicial tribunals of such State, Territory or vernment,
shall be admitted b the Courts and oiiicers of this State, on all occasions,
as presumptive evi ence of such laws. The unwritten or common law of
any other State or Territory, or foreign Government, may be proved as
facts b parol evidence; and the books of reports of cases adjnd ed in
their urts, may also be admitted as presumptive evidence of suc law.

TITLE XIII.
ACTIONS IN PARTICULAR cAsEs.
CHAPTER I. Actions against foreign corporations.

II. Actions in place of sctre factas, qua warranto, and of informations in the nature of qua warranto.

CHAPTER I.

ACTIONS AGAINST FOREIGN CORPORATIONS.

SEC, 442. An action against a corporation created by or under the
laws of any other State, government, or country, may be brought in the
Circuit Court:

1. By any resident of this State, for any cause of action.

2. By a plaintifff not a resident of this State, when the cause of action
shall have arisen, or the subject of the action shall be situated, within
this State. '

CHAPTER H.

ACTIONS IN PLACE OF SCIRE FACIAS, QUO WABBANTO, AND OF INFORMATIONS IN THE NATURE OF QUO WARRAN10.

SEO. 443. Scire facias and quo warranto abolished, and this chapter
substituted.
444. Action may be- brought, by direction of the Legislature, by
the Attorney-General, to vacate a charter.
445. Action to annul a corporation, when and how brought by
the Attorney-General, by leave of the Supreme Court.
446. Leave to sue, how obtained ’
447. Action upon information or complaint of course.
448. Action, when and how brought to vacate letters patent.
449. Relator, when to be joined as (psliintiff.
450. Com laint and arrest of defcn t in action for usurping an
o co.
451. Judgment in such actions.
452. Assumption of office,»&o., by relator, when judgment is in
his favor.
453. Proceedings against a defendant, on his refusal to deliver
books or papers.
454. Damages, how recovered.
455. 0111131 _action against several persons claiming odice and fran, c 188.
456. Penalty for usurping office or franchise, how awarded.
457. Judgment of forfeiture against a corporation.
458. Costa against a corporation, or persons claiming to be such,
how collected. , .
459. Restraining corporation, and appointment of receiver.
460. Coiplyéd of judgment roll against corporation, where to be

461. Entry ‘of judgment relating to letters patent.
462. Action for forfeiture of property to the State.

SEC. 443. The writ of scire facias, the writ of quo warranto, and proceedings by information in the nature of no warranto, are abolished;
and the remedies heretofore obtainable in t ose forms may be obtained
by civil actions under the provisions of this chapter. But any roceeding
heretofore commenced, or judgment rendered, or right acquire , shall not
be affected by such abolition.

SEC. 444. An action may be brou ht by the Attorney-General, in the
name of the State, whenever the Eegislatnre shall so direct, against a
corporation, for the purpose of vacating or annulling the act of incorporation, or an act renewing its corporate existence, on the ground that such
act or renewal was rocured upon some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a material fact, by the persons incorporated, or by some of them,
or with their knowledge and consent.

SEC. 445. An action may be brou ht by the Attorney-General, in the
name of the State, on leave granted y the Supreme Court or a Justice
thereof, or a Circuit Judge, for the purpose of vacating the charter or
annulling the existence of a corporation, other than municipal, whenever
such corporation shall1. Offend against any of the provisions of this Act, or Acts creating,
alterin ,- or renewing such co ration; or,

2. iolate the provisions 0 any law by which such corporation shall
have forfeited its charter by abuse of its powers; or,

3. Whenever it shall have forfeited its privileges or franchises by failure
,to exercise its powers; or,

t 4. Whenever it shall have done or omitted any act which amounts to a
rsurrender of its corporate rights, privile and franchises; or,

5. Whenever it shall exercise a franc ise or privilege not conferred
upon it by law. ’ .

And it shall be the duty of the Attorney-General, yvhenever he shall
have reason to believe that any of these acts or omissions can be established
by proof, to apply for leave, and upon leave granted to bring the action,
in every case of public interest, and also in every other case in which
satisfactory security shall be given to indemnify the State against the
costs and expenses to be incurred thereby.

SEC. 446. Leave to bring the action may be granted upon the application of the Attorney-General; and the Court or Jud may, at discretion, direct notice of such application to be given to e corporation or
to its officers, previous to granting such leave, and may hear the corporation in opposition thereto. ,

SEC. 447. An action may be brou ht by the Attorney-General in the
name of the State, upon his own ' ormation, or upon the complaint of 1
any private (party, or by a private party interested, on leave granted by
a ircuit J u ge, against the parties offending, in the following cases:

1. When any rson shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully hold or
exercise any pub ic oihce, civil or military, or any franchise within this
gtate, or any office in a corporation created by the authority of this

tate; or,

2. When an public officer, civil or milita , shall have done or suffered an act w ‘ch, by the provisions of law, s all make a forfeiture of
his oilice; or, A

3. When any association or number of persons shall act within this
State as a corporation, without being duly incorporated.

SEC. 448. An action may be brought by the Attorney-General, in the

name of the State, for the puigiose o vacatin or annulling letters patent

 33° Pr 1°.“ this as is is *"°1:‘:i“g rs; ...

i . en e s a ave reason e ieve a sue e rs pa n were

‘ obtained by means of some fraudulent suggestion or ' concealment of a
material fact, made by the person to whom the same were issued or made,
or with his consent or knowledge; or,

2. When he shall have reason to believe that such letters patent were
issued throu h mistake, or in ignorance of a material fact; or,

3. When e shall have reason to believe that the .patentee, or those
claiming under him, have done or omitted an act, in violation of the
terms and conditions on which the letters patent were granted, or have
by any other means forfeited the interest ac uired under the same.

, SEC. 449. When an action shall be broug t by the Attorney-General,
i by virtue of this chapter, on the complaint of any private party, or by a
person having an interest in the question, the name of such person shall
Ge joined wgi thet Statce as plaqililitifl‘, and in egrery such case the Attorneyenera or rcui u ge, as e case may e, may require, as a con 1tion precedent to bringing such action, that satisfactory security shall be
given to indemnify the State against the costs and expenses to be incurred thereby; and in every case brought by the Attorne -General where
such security is given, the measure of com ensation to be paid by such
person or persons to the Attorney-General s all be left to the agreement,
express or im lied, of the parties. _

SEC. 450. alien 81l11Cl1AaI1 actioq} shall lbs brought against a person for

F usurping an o ce, t e ttorney- enera or private party bringing the
; same, in addition Ito the statemeng of the cause of action, ma also set
V forth in the comp aint the name 0 the person rightfully entit ed to the
office, with a statement of his right thereto; and in such case, upon
roof by affidavit that the defen ant has received fees or emoluments
longing to the office, and by means of his usurgation thereof, an order
may be granted by a Judge of_ the Circuit or ustice _of the Supreme
Court for the arrest of suqlgd defeindapdt, anld liioldmg him to bail; and
thereupon he shall be arres an he to. a’ , in the manner, and with
the same effect, and subject to the_same rights and liabilities, as in other
civil actions where the defendant is subject to arrest.

SEC. 451. In every such case, judgment shall be rendered upon the
right of the defendant, and also_ upon the right of the party so alleged
to _be entitled, or only upon the right of the defendant, as justice shall require. . ‘ '

SEC. 452. If the ju ent be rendered upon the right of the person
so alleged to be entitle , and the same be in favor 0 such person, he
shall'be entitled, after takin the oath of office, and executing such othcial bond as may be require by law, to take upon himself the execution
of the officeii and it slliall be his (hut , igmlegiateily thereafterilto demand
of the defen ant in t e action a t e oo an pa ers in is custody,
or withinl h(i1s ower, belonging to the office from which he shall have
been exc u e . - b SE10. 453. If the defendant ihalil refusce olr nefgleiztlto delllilver ofver such
oo sorpapers, ursuantto t e eman , e s a e ' ty 0 a misdemeanor, and t e following proceedings shall be ha , to compel delivery of such books and papers: A

1. .Whenever any rson shall be removed from oilice, or the term for
which he shall haveglaen elected or ap ointed shall expire, he shall, \on
demand, deliver over to his successor all the books and papers in his custody, as such officer, or in any way appertaining to his office. Every
person violating this provision shall e deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.

2. If any person shall refuse or neglect to deliver over to his successor
any books or papers, as required in the preceding Section, such successor
may make complaint thereof to any Judge of the Circuit Court, or Justice of the Supreme Court, where the person so refusing shall reside, and
if such officer be satisfied b the oath of the complainant, and such
other testimony as shall be 0 ered, that any such books or papers are
withheld, he shall grant an order directing the person so refusing to show
cause before him, within some short, reasonable time, why he should not
be compelled to deliver the same.

3. At the time so appointed, or at any other time to which the matter
may be adjourned, upon due proof being made of the service of the said
order, such officer shall proceed to inquire into the circumstances. If
the rson charged with withholdin such books or apers shall make
alii avit before such officer that he has truly delivered over to his successor all such books and papers in his custody, or appertaining to his oilice,
within his knowledge, all further proceedin before such oliicer shall
cease, and the person complained against sha be discharged.

4. If the person complained against shall not make such oath, and it

i shall appear that any such. books or apers are withheld, the officer before whom such roceeding shall be ad shall, by warrant, commit the
person so withhol ing to the jail of the Count , there to remain until he
shall deliver such books and papers, or be otherwise discharged according to law. '

5. In the case stated in the last Section, if required by the complainant, such oliicer shall also issue his warrant, directed to any Sheriff or

‘Constable, commanding them in the day time to search such places as

shall be designated in such warrant for such books and papers as belonged to the officer so removed, or whose term of oilice expired, in his
otiicial capacity, and which appertained to such office, and seize and
bring them before the officer issuin the warrant.

6. Upon any books and papers eing brought before such officer, by
virtue of such warrant, he shall inquire and examine whether the same
appertained to the office from which the person so refusing to deliver was
removed, or of which the term expired, and he shall cause the same to
be delivered to the complainant.

7. If any person appointed or elected to any office shall die, or his
office shall in any way become vacant, and any books or papers belonging or appertaining to such office shall come to the hands of any person,
the successor to such office may, in like manner as hereinbefore prescribed, demand such books or papers from the person having the same
in his possession; and on the same being withheld, an order ma be obtained, and the‘ person charged may, in like manner, make oat of the
delivery of all such books and papers that ever came to his possession ;
and in case of omission to make such oath, and to deliver up the books
and apers so demanded, such person may be committed to jail, and a
scare warrant may be issued, and the property seized by virtue

thereof may be delivered to the complainant, as hereinbefore _prescribed.
SEC. 454. If judgment be rendered, upon the right of the person so

alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may recover, by action,’

the damages which he shall have sustained by reason of the usurpation
b 313 defendant of the office from which such defendant has been exc u .

SEC. 455. Where several persons claim to be entitled to the same office
or franchise, one action may be brought against all such persons, in order
to try their res tive rights to such office or franchise. ‘

SEC. 456. en a defendant, whether a natural person or a corporation,
against whom such action shall have been brought, shall be adjudged
guilty of usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully holding or exercising
any oiiice, franchise, or privilege, judgment shal be rendered that such
defendant be excluded from such oiiice, franchise, or privilege, and also
that the plaintifff recover costs against such defendant. The Court may
also, in its discretion, line such defendant a sum not exceeding two thousand dollars, which nne, when collected, shall be paid into the Treasury
of the State.

SEC. 457. If it shall be adjudged that a corporation against which an
action shall have been brought pursuant to this chapter, has, b ii lect,
abuse or surrender, forfeited its cor rate rights, privileges and fltangises,
judgment shall be rendered that t e corporation be excluded from such
plorpiiratp rights, privileges and franchises, and that the corporation be

isso ve .

SEC. 458. If judgment be rendered in such action a ainst a corporation,
or against persons claiming to be a corporation, the urt may cause the
costs therein to be collected by execution against the persons claiming to
be a cor ration, or by attachment or process against the directors or
other 0 cers of such corporation.

SEC. 459. When such judgment shall be rendered against a corporation,
the Court shall have power to restrain the co oration, to appoint a receiver of its property, and totake an account, an make distribution thereof
among its creditors; and it shallbe the duty of the Attorney-General,
immediately after the rendition of such judgment, to institute proceedings for that urpose. . . _ _p .

SEC. 460. pon the rendition of such judgment against a corporation,
or for the vacating or annulling of letters atent, it shall be the duty of
the Attorney-General to cause a copy-of t e judgment-roll to be forthwith filed in the office of the Secretary of State.

SEC. 461. Such Secretary shall- thereupon, if the record relates to letters patent, make an entry in the records of the office of the Secretary of
State, of the substance and effect of such judgment, and of the time when
the record thereof was docketed ; and the real property granted by such
letters patent may thereafter be dis sed of in the same manner as if such
letters patent had never been issue .

SEC. 462. Whenever, by the provision of law, any roperty, real or
personal, shall be forfeited to t e State, or to any o cer for their use,
an action for the recover of such property, alleging the grounds of the
forfeiture, may be broug t by the proper officer in the Circuit Court.

- TITLE XIV.

PROVISIONS RELATING TO EXISTING SUITS.

sec. 463. Writ of error in all cases abolished. Ap eal substituted.
464. Execution, when issuable on a judgment ocketed before July
1st, 1870.

465. Application of this Act to actions pending. Extraordinary
terms. ‘

SEC. 463. No writ of error shall be hereafter issued in any case whatever. Wherever a right now exists to have a review of a judgment rendered, or order or decree made, before the first day of January, 1871,
such review can only be had upon an appeal taken in the manner provided by this Act; but all appeals or writs of error heretofore taken from
such judgments, orders or decrees, which are still pending in an Appellate Court, and not dismissed, shall be valid and effectual. But this Section shall not extend the right of review to any case or question to which
it does not now extend, nor the time for appealing. ‘

SEC. 464. An execution may be issued, without leave of the Court,
upon a judgment docketed before the first day of July, 1870, or now or
hereafter to be rendered in an action pending on that day, at any time
within five years aiter the rendering of the judgment.

F SEC. 465. The provisions of this Act apply to future proceedings in
‘actions or suits heretofore commenced and now pending as follows:

I 1. If there have been no pleading therein, to the pleadings and all
subsequent proceedings.

2. When there is an issue of law or of fact, or any other question of fact
to be tried, to the trial and all subsequent proceedings. ‘

TITLE XV.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.

SEC. 466. Definition of real pro rty.'
467. Definition of personsfeproperty.
468. Definitionof property.
469. Definition of Clerk.
470. Rule of construction.
471. Inconsistent statutory provisions repealed.
472. Inconsistent rules and practice abrogated.
473. Judges to meet and make general rules.
474. Justices of Supreme Court may’ make rules.

_SEC. 466. The words “real property,” and “real estate,” as used in .
Act, are co-extensive with lands, tenements, and hereditaments. 1

SEC. 467. The words “personal property,” as used in this Act, include

. money, goods, chattels, things in action, and evidences of debt.

SEC. 468. The word “property,” as used in this Act, includes property,

, real and personal.

SEC. 469. The word “Clerk,” as used in this Act, signifies the Clerk

’ of the Court where the action is pending, and. in the Supreme Court, the
Clerk of the Count mentioned in the title of the complaint, or in

another County to w ich the Court may have changed theplace of trial,
unless otherwise specified.

SEC. 470. The rule of common law, that statutes in dero tion of that
law are to be strictly construed, has no application to this ct.

SEC. 471. All statutory provisions inconsistent with this Act are re’ pealed ; but this repeal shall not revive a statute or law which may have

been repealed or abolished by the provisions hereby repealed.‘ And all

4 rights of action given or secured by existing laws may be prosecuted in

the manner provided by» this Act. If a case shall arise in which an
action for the enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress or prevention of a wrong, cannot be had under this Act, the practice heretofore
in use may be adopted so far as may be necessary to prevent a failure of
justice. ‘

SEC. 472. The present rules and practice of the Courts in civil actions,

I inconsistent with this Act, are abro ated; but when consistent with this
L Act, they shall continue in force, su ject to the power of the respective
Courts to relax, modify or alter the same.

SEC. 473. The Justices of the Supreme Court and the Judges of the
Circuit Courts shall meet in general session on the first Tuesday in November, 1870, at the capital in Columbia, and in every two years thereafter. A majority of said Justices and Judges shall constitute a quorum.
At such session they shall revise the general rules of the Circuit Court,
make amendments thereto, and such further rules, not inconsistent with
this Code, as may be necessary to carry it fully into effect.

SEC. 474. The Justices of the Supreme Court shall from time to time

.make such rules for the orderly conduct of business in said Court, as

they may deem proper, not inconsistent with this Act.
SEC. 475. Until the Legislature shall otherwise provide, the second‘
part of this Act shall not affect proceedings by mandamus or prohibition.

Approved March 1, 1870.


