Art. 1001. Judges of supreme court. Tbe supreme court shall con
sist of a chief justice and two associate justices, any two of whom shall
constitute a quorum, and the concurrence of two judges shall be necessary to
the decision of a case. [Const. Art. 5, § 2.]
§ 1002. Election; tenure of office. The chief justice and associate
justices of the supreme court shall be elected by the qualified voters of the state
at a general election, and shall hold their offices for six years. [Const. Art.
" 'J
5, § 2.
The Constitution directs that all officers shall continue to perform the duties of their offices
iCo
until their successors shall be duly qualified. Art. 16, § 17.
§ 1003. Qualification of judges. No person shall be eligible to
the office of chief justice or associate justice of the supreme court unless he be
at the time of his election a citizen of the United States and of this state, and
unless he shall have attained the age of thirty years, and shall have been a
practicing lawyer or a judge of a court in this state, or such lawyer and judge
together, at least seven years. [Const. Art. 5, § 2.]
§ 1004. Vacancies, how filled. In case of a vacancy in the office
of chief justice or associate justice of fhe supreme court, the governor'shall fill
the vacancy until the next general election for state officers, and at such general
election the vacancy for the unexpired term shall be filled by election by the
qualified voters of the state. [Const. Art. 5, § 2.]
end) year, and may continue until the last day of December thereafter, unless
the business before it is sooner disposed of.
A term of said court shall be held at the city of Galveston, in Galveston
county, which shall begin on the first Monday in January of each year, and
may continue until the last day of March thereafter, unless the business before
it is sooner disposed of.
A term of said court shall be held at the city of Austin, in Travis county,
which shall begin on the first Monday in April of each year, and may continue
until the last Saturday of June thereafter, unless the business before it is
sooner disposed of. [Act Apr, 2, 1874; 14 Leg. p. 49; Const. Art. 5, § 3.]
§ 1006. Counties returnable to Tyler. Appeals and writs of
error from the counties of Anderson, Bowie, Camp, Cass, Cherokee, Delta,
Ellis, Hopkins, Franklin, Gregg, Harrison, Henderson, Hunt, Kaufman, Mar
ion, Morris, Nacogdoches, Navarro, Panola, Rains, Red|River, Rockwall, Rusk,
Sabine, San Augustine, Shelby, Smith, Titus, Upshur, Van Zandt and Wood,
shall be returnable to the term of said court held at Tyler; and all cases from
the county of Ellis pending in the supreme court and the court of appeals at
Austin, and undetermined at the adjournment of the term of said courts com
mencing on the first Monday of April, 1887, shall be transferred to Tyler,
and entered upon the dockets of said courts of Tyler, and shall be tried and
determined in the same manner as if said cases had originally been made re
turnable to the term of said courts held at Tyler. [Amendment March 25 ;
July 4, 1887; 20 Leg. p. 45.]
§ 1006 was based on the Act of April 2, 1874; 14 Leg. p. 49; and was amended April 9,
1S83; IS Leg. p. 53; and March 25, 1S85; 19 Leg. p. 50.
§ 1007. Counties returnable to Galveston. Appeals and writs
"f error from the counties of Aransas, Angelina, Austin, Bee, Brazoria, Bur
leson, Brazos, Calhoun, Cameron, Chambers, Colorado, DeWitt, Duval, Encinal, Fayette, Fort Bend, Freestone, Galveston, Goliad, Gonzales, Grimes,
Harris, Hardin, Hidalgo, Houston, Jackson, Jasper, Jefferson, Lavaca, Leon,
Liberty, Madison, Matagorda, Montgomery, Newton, Nueces, Orange, Polk,
Kefugio, San Jacinto, San Patricio, Starr, Trinity, Tyler, Victoria, Walker,
Waller, Washington, Webb, Wharton and Zapata, shall be returnable to the term
of said court at Galveston ; provided that all cases from the county of Brazos
pending in the supreme court and court of appeals at Austin and undeter
mined at the adjournment of the term of said courts, commencing on the first
Monday in April, 1885, shall be transferred to Galveston, and shall be entered
upon the dockets of said courts at Galveston, and shall be tried and deter
mined in the same manner as if said cases had been originally made return
able to the term of said courts held at Galveston. [Amendment March 26,
1885; 19 Leg. p. 50.]
The original article is based on the Act of April 2, 1S74; 14 Leg.* p. 49; and was amended
April 9, 16*3; IS Leg. p. 53.
§ 1008. Counties returnable to Austin. Appeals and writs of
error from the counties of Andrews, Archer, Armstrong, Atascosa, Bailey,
Bandera, Bastrop, Baylor, Bell, Bexar, Blanco, Borden, Bosque, Briscoe,
Brown, Burnet, Caldwell, Callahan, Carson, Castro, Childress, Collingsworth,
Comal, Comanche, Concho, Cooke, Coryell, Cottle, Crockett, Cochran, Clay,
Coleman, Collin, Crosby, Dallam, Dallas, Dawson, Deaf Smith, Denton,
Dickens, Dimmit, Donley, Eastland, Edwards, El Paso, Erath, Falls, Fannin,
Fisber, Floyd, Frio, Gaines, Garza, Gillespie, Gray, Grayson, Greer, Guad
alupe, Hale, Hall, Hamilton, Hansford, Hardeman, Hartley, Haskell, Hays,
Hemphill, Hill, Hockley, Hood, Howard, Hutchinson, Jack, Johnson, Jones,
Karnes, Kendall, Kent, Kerr, Kimble, King, Kinney, Knox, Lamar, Lamb,
Lampasas, La Salle, Lee, Limestone, Limpscomb,Live Oak, Llano, Lubbock,
Lynn, Martin, Mason, Maverick, McCulloeh, McLennan, McMullen, Medina,
Menard, Midland, Milam, Mitchell, Montague, Moore, Motley, Nolan, Ochil
tree, Oldham, Parmer, Palo Pinto, Parker, Pecos, Potter, Presidio, Randall,
Reeves, Roberts, Robertson, Runnels, San Saba, Scurry, Shackelford, Sher
man, Somervell, Stephens, Stonewall, Swisher, Tarrant, Taylor, Terr}',
Thockmorton, Tom Green, Travis, Uvalde, Wheeler, Wichita, Wilbarger,
Williamson, Wilson, Wise, Yoakum, Young, and Zavala, shall be returnable
to the term of said court held at Austin. [Amendment March 25 ; Julv 4,
1887; 20 Leg. p. 45.]
§cle 1003 was based on the Act of April 2, 1S74; 14 Leg. p. 49; and was amended by the
Act of March 25, 1SS5; 19 Leg. p. 50.
§ 1009. When new counties formed. When a new county shall
be created, appeals and writs of error therefrom shall be returnable to the
term of the supreme court to which they are returnable from the county or
counties out of which such new county was formed, or from which the largest
area of such new county was formed. [Act April 2, 1874 ; 14 Leg. p. 49,
§ 2; Const. Art. 5, § 7.]
§ 1010. Adjournment from day to day ; want of quorum.
The said court may adjourn from day to day, or for such period as they may
think necessary to the ends of justice and the determination of the business
before them ; and there shall be no discontinuance of any suit, process or
matter returned to or depending in the supreme court, although a quorum of
the court may not be in attendance at the commencement, or any other day of
the term; but if a sufficient number of judges shall not attend on the first day
of the term to hold said court, or shall not attend at any day of the term, any
judge of the court, or the sheriff attending the same, may adjourn the -said
court from time to time, for thirty days, at which time, if a majority or
quorum shall not attend, it shall be the duty of the judge or sheriff in attend
ance to adjourn the court to the next regular term time. [Act May 12, 1846;
1 Leg. p. 249; P. D. 1574.]
CH. 3.— JURISDICTION OF THE SUPREME COURT.
§
1011. Appellate jurisdiction of supreme court.
1012. May issue what writs.
1013. May ascertain matters of fact.
1014. Muv make rules and regulations.
Abt.
1015. May punish contempts.
1016. May issue mandamus to compel district
judge to proceed to trial.
§101 1 . Appellate jurisdiction of supreme court. The supreme
court shall have appellate jurisdiction only, which shall be co-extensive
with the limits of the state; but shall only extend to civil cases of which the
district courts have original or appellate jurisdiction. [Const. Art. 5, §3.]
§ 1012. May issue what writs. The supreme court and the judges
thereof shall have power to issue the writ of mandamus and all other writs
necessary to enforce the jurisdiction of said court.
§ 1013. May ascertain matters of fact. The supreme court shall
have power upon affidavit or otherwise, as by the court may be thought proper,
to ascertain such matters of fact as may be necessary to the proper exercise of
its jurisdiction.
§ 1014. May make rules and regulations. The supreme court
shall have power to make rulesf and regulations for the government of said
court, and the other courts of the state, to regulate proceedings and expedite
the dispatch of business therein. [Const. Art 5, § 25.]
§ 1015. May punish contempt. The supreme court shall have
power to punish tiny person for a contempt of said court, according to the
principles and usages of law in like cases, not to exceed one thousand dollars
Sue, and imprisonment not exceedinsr twenty days. [Act May 12, 1846; 1
Leg. ]>. 249; P. D. 1577.]
§ 1016. May issue mandamus to compel district judge to
proceed to trial. The said court, or any judge thereof, in vacation, may
issue the writ of mandamus to compel a judge of the district court to proceed
to trial and juhgment in a cause, agreeably to the principles andusagesof law,
returnable to the supreme court on or before the fhst day of the term, or dur
ing the session of the same, or before any judge of the said court, as the
nature of the case may require. [Act May 12, 1846; 1 Leg. p. 249; P. D.
1579.]
§ 1017. One clerk for each branch, etc. There shall be ap
pointed for the supreme court one clerk for each branch thereof, who shall
reside at the place of holding court; which appointment shall be made by the
court, or the judges thereof, and shall be entered of record in the proceedings
of the court, and each person so appointed shall, before he enters upon the
duties of his office, take and subscribe the oath prescribed by the constitution,
before some officer authorized to administer oaths generally, and shall enter
into a bond with two good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the court
or judges thereof, payable to the governor, and his successors in office, in the
penalty of two thousand dollars, conditioned for the faithful performance of
the duties of his office, and that he correctly record the judgments, decrees,
decisions and orders of the said court, and deliver over to his successor in
office all records, minutes, books and papers, and whatever belongs to his said
office of clerk, which bond and oath shall, without delay, be deposited in the
office of the secretary of state, and shall not be void on the first recovery, but
may be put in suit and prosecuted by any party injured, until the amount
thereof be recovered, and shall be deemed to extend to the faithful discharge
of the duties of his office. [Const. Art. 5, §4: P. D. 15G3.]
§ 1018. Vacancy in vacation, how filled. If, in vacation, the
office of clerk may become vacant, the appointment shall be made by the chief
justice and the associates of said court, or any one of said associates and chief
justice; and the person so appointed shall give bond and take the oath as pre
scribed in the preceding article, the bond to be approved by any judge of the
court—which bond and oath shall be deposited in the same manner as though
the appointment had been made in term time, and may be prosecuted and put
in suit in like manner; copies of said bond, certified under the hand of the
§etary of state and the seal of state, shall be received iu evidence iu any
court in this state, in the same manner as the original would be were it pre
sented in court; and the said appointment shall continue until the next regular
term of the said court, or until a regular appointment shall be made. [Act May
12, 1846; 1 Leg. p. 249; P. D. 1564.]
§ 1019. Term of office; how removed; pro tern appoint
ment. The clerk of t lie supreme court shall hold his office for the term of
four years from his appointment, but may be removed therefrom for neglect
of duty, or misconduct in office, by the supreme court, on motion, of which
the clerk against whom complaint is made shall have ten days previous notice,
specifying the particular charges of negligence or misconduct in office pre
ferred; and in every such case the court shall determine both the law and
the facts; and whenever the necessity occurs the supreme court may appoint a
clerk pro tempore. [Act May 12, 1846; 1 Leg. p. 249; Const. Art. 5, § 4.]
§ 1020. Seal of court, clerk to procure. It shall be the duty of
the clerk of the supreme court to procure a seal for the use of the court,
which shall have a star of five points, with the words " Supremo Court of the
State of Texas" - engraved thereon. [Act May 12, 1846; 1 Leg. p. 249;
P. D. 1569.]
§ 1021. Shall file and preserve transcripts and docket
causes. The clerk of the supreme court shall file and carefully preserve the
transcripts of all records certified to said court, and all papers relative thereto,
and shall docket all causes in the order in which the court shall direct. [Act
Feb. 12, 1850; 3 Leg. S. S. p. 171; P. D. 1583.]
§ 1022. Shall record proceedings. The said clerk shall faith
fully record the proceedings and decisions of said court, and certify their
judgments to the courts from which the causes were brought. [Act Feb. 12,
1850; 3 Leg. S. S. p. 171; P. D. 1584.]
§ 1023. May appoint deputies. The clerks of the supreme court
may appoint deputies, who, in the names of said clerks, may discharge all the
duties required by law of said clerks, and said deputies may be required to
give bonds with sureties to said clerks for the faithful discharge of their
duties.
§ 1024. Shall be librarians. The clerks of the supreme court shall,
be librarians in charge of the libraries of said court. [Act Nov. 7, 1866; 11
Leg. p. 99; P. D. 1563.]
§ 1025. Duties of, as librarians. It shall be the duty of such
librarians to take charge of and keep together and in good order, and make
catalogues of the books of said libraries, which shall be open to the public
use under such rules as may be prescribed by them for the safe-keeping
thereof; provided, the books shall not be removed from the library room, ex
cept by the judges of the court and by members of the legislature during the
session of the legislature, upon their receipt for the same to the clerk. [Act
April 2, 1874; 14 Leg. p. 49 ; P. D. 6463m.]
§ 1026. # Court may appoint and remove reporter. The su
preme court is authorized and required to appoint one or more reporters of its
decisions, who shall be subject to removal by said court for any inefficiency
or neglect of duty. [Amendment May 3, 1882; 17 Leg. S. S. p. 7.]
The original article is based on the Act of Nov. 12, 1866; 11 Leg. p. 183; and the changes
made by the amendments relate to matters of detail only.
§ 1027. Reporters to prepare decisions for publication. It
shall be the duty of the reporter to prepare for publication, #nder the direc
tion of the supreme court, the decisions thereof, and cause the same to be
printed and published with promptness, as fast as there shall be a sufficient
number to form a volume, and shall deliver to the secretary of state, for the
use of the state, one thousand copies of each volume of the reports. [Amend
ment May 3, 1882; 17 Leg. S. S. p. 7.]
§ 1028. Requisites of volume. Each volume shall contain an av
erage number of pages of the volumes of Texas Reports heretofore published,
and each page shall be twenty-six ems, pica, wide and forty-six ems, pica,
long. The type used shall be long primer and minion, of same size used in
volume XXIII, Wallace's United States Supreme Court Reports. The lines
shall be leaded with not thicker than eight to pica leads. The paper, press
work and binding shall be of the same style, and of at least equal quality, in
every respect, with the volumes of Moore's and Walker's Reports heretofore
published. They shall be styled the "Texas Reports," and shall be so styled
on the title page and back thereof, and the numbers of the volumes shall be
continued on consecutively. The name of the reporter may be printed on the
back, as on the volumes published by Moore and Walker. Each volume shall
be cop3rii<rhted in the name of and for the State of Texas. [Amendment
May 3, 1882; 17 Leg. S. S. p. 7.]
§ 1029. Opinions to be delivered to reporter. As soon as the
opinions are recorded, the originals, together with the records and papers in
each case to be reported, shall be delivered to the reporter, u;.ion his giving a
receipt therefore, who shall return them to the respective clerks from whom
he received them when he shall have finished using them. [Amendment
May 3, 1882; 17 Leg. S. S. p. 7.]
§ 1030. Price for reports. The reporter shall bo entitled to re
ceive, in payment for the one thousand copies of each volume, delivered as
aforesaid, the following compensation, viz: The sum of five dollars and fifty
cents per page for as many pages as shall be contained in one copy of each
volume so delivered." [Amendment May 3, 1882; 17 Leg. S. S. p. 7.]
§ 1031. Voucher for pay of reporter. When the reporter shall
have delivered to the secretary of state the copies o*f a volume of the reports, as
required by this chapter, the comptroller of public accounts shall draw his
warrant upon the state treasurer for the amount of compensation due such re
porter, based upon the certificate of the secretary of state, and the certificate
of the board of public printing, that the reporter has delivered to the secre
tary of state one thousand copies of the volumeof the Texas Reports,
containing pages, printed, published and bound in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The secretary of state is authorized to sell single
copies of each volume delivered as aforesaid, for the sura of four dollars, ex
clusive of postage, the proceeds of such sales to be paid to the state treas
urer, and the secretary of state to report thereon in his biennial report; pro
vided, that the secretary shall retain five hundred copies of each volume for "
the use of the state. [Amendment May 3, 1882 ; 17 Leg. S. S. p. 7.]
§ 1032. Court shall designate cases to be reported. The su
preme court shall designate, by order or otherwise, all casesito be reported,
and only such cases shall be reported as shall be designated by the supreme
court for publication, and only the main propositions specified by the court
contained in the briefs of cases reported, with the authorities relied on, shall
be incorporated in such reports. [Amendment May 3, 1882; 17 Leg.
S. S. p. 7.]
CH. 6.— PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL CASES IN THE SUPREME
COURT AND COURT OF APPEALS — FILING AND
§
1033.
1034.
1035.
1036.
DOCKETING CAUSES Etc.
Mode of trial.
Transcript must be filed, when.
Certificate may be filed, when ; affirm
ance on certificate.
Transcript may be filed after affirm
ance, when.
§
1037.
1038.
1039.
Assignment of errors.
No answer to assignment of errors re
quired.
Briefs of attorneys sufficient appear
ance.
§ 1033. Mode of trial. In all cases of appeal or writ of error to
the supreme court or court of appeals, the trial shall be on a statement of
facts, as agreed upon by the parties or their attorneys, certified to by the
judge of the court below; or should the parties fail to agree, then the judge
of the court below shall certify the facts; or on a bill of exceptions to the
opinion of the judge; or on a special verdict; or on an error in law, either as
signed or apparent on the face of the record; and in the absence of all these,
the case shall be dismissed with costs alone, or with costs and damages, at the
discretion of the court. And the court shall admit as part of the record to be
examined by them in the trial of a cause every bill of exception not signed
by the judge trying the cause below, upon it appearing to the satisfaction of
the court that the facts are fairly stated therein ; that said bill was prepared
in accordance with the law governing the preparation of such bills, and that
the judge trying the cause refused to sign the same; and the truth of any
such bill of exceptions shall be determined by the court on the copies of the
affidavits required by law to be made in such cases, 6uch copies to be contained
in and to form a part of the record transmitted to the supreme court or court
of appeals. [Act May 12, 1846; 1 Leg. p. 249; P. D. 219, 1581.]
§ 1034. Transcript must be filed, when. When an appeal from
any final judgment of a district or county court has been taken, and an appealbond
has been filed ; or when an appeal has been taken in cases where no ap
peal-bond is required ; or when a citation has been served on a petition for a
writ of error, it shall be the duty of the appellant or plaintifff in error to file
a transcript of record with the clerk of the supreme court or court of appeals,
at the place where such appeal or writ of error is returnable, on or before the
first day of the term to which the same is so returnable, that is held next suc
ceeding the term when the appeal was perfected or the citation for writ of
error was served, or on or before the first day in such term designated for the
trial of causes from the county in which such appeal or writ of error was
taken ; provide^, however, that if such appeal was perfected or such citation
in error was served less than twenty days before the said first day of the term
next succeedingthe taking thereof, or less than twenty days before the fiistday
of the term in said term designated for the trial of causes brought from the county
in which such appeal or writ of error was taken, then such transcript shall be filed
at the next succeeding term thereafter in the same manner; and provided,
also, that where a party is unable to file such transcript in the time limited by
this article from any unavoidable cause, the court shall, upfn satisfactory
proof thereof, permit such transcript to be filed at a later period. [Act Apr.
2,1874; 14 Leg. p. 51; P. D. 1586, 6460.]
§ 1035. Certificate may be filed, when; affirmance on cer
tificate. In case the appellant or plaintifff in error shall fail to file a tran
script of the record as directed in the preceding article, then it shall be law
ful for the appellee or defendant in error to file with the clerk of the supreme
court or court of appeals a certificate of the clerk of the district or county
court in which any such appeal or writ of error may have been taken, attested
by the seal of his court, stating the time when such appeal was perfected or
such citation was served ; whereupon it shall be the duty of the supreme court
or court of appeals to affirm the judgment of the court below, unless good
cause be shown why such transcript was not filed by the appellant or plaintifff
in error; and in cases where a bond has been given by the appellant or plain
tiff in error, if a copy of such bond accompanies such certificate of the clerk of
the district or county court, the judgment shall in like manner be affirmed
against the sureties in such bond. [Act Feb. 11, 1850; 3 Leg. S. S. p. 171;
P. D. 1589.}
§ 1036. Court may permit transcript to be filed after affirm
ance on certificate. In all cases where the supreme court or court of ap
peals shall have affirmed the judgment of the court below, under the pro
visions of the preceding article, said court may at any time during the term
at which any such judgment was so affirmed permit the transcript to be filed
by the appellant or plaintifff in error, and the case to be tried on its merits;
•provided, the appellant or plaintifff in error shall show to the court good cause
why the transcript was not filed by him in accordance with the provisions of
§cle 1034 ; and shall also show to said court that he has given the appellee
or defendant in error notice of his intention to apply for such permission to
file said transcript; and in cases where the supreme court or court of appeals
shall adjourn within forty days after any judgment shall have been affirmed
under the provisions of the next preceding article, the court may permit the
appellant or plaintifff in error to file said transcript on the first day of the next
succeeding term, or the first day of the term that may have been designated
by said court for the trial of cases from the district in which such appeal or
writ of error was taken, and have said cause tried on its merits; provided,
said appellant or plaintifff in error shall show good cause why said transcript
was not filed as herein directed, and shall also show to the court that he has
given the appellee or defendant in error notice of his intention to apply for
permission to file said transcript. [Act Feb. 11, 1850; 3 Leg. S. S. p. 171;
P. D. 1590.] •
§ 1037. Assignment of errors. The appellant or plaintifff in
error shall in all cases file with the clerk of the court below an assignment of
errors, distinctly specifying the grounds on which he relies before he takes the
transcript of the record from the clerk's office, and a copy of such assignment
of errors shall be attached to and form a part of the record ; and all errors
not so distinctly specified shall be considered by the supremo court or court of
appeals as waived. [Act Feb. 11, 1850; 3 Leg. S. S. p. 171; P. D. 1591.]
§ 37. See Bule 100 for the District Court.
§ 1004.
§
49; Blanton v. Bav, 66 T. 61 ; Shumard v. Johnson, 66 T. 70; Douglass v. Duncan, 66 T. 122;
Stroud v. Palmer, 66 T. 129; Martin v. Wainscott, 66 T. 131 ; Harvey v. Ogilvie, 66 T. 185;
Blum v. Whitworth, 66 T. 350. An assignment of error based on a bill of exceptions taken
to the admission of testimony, when the bill was taken and filed after the adjournment of
court, cannot be considered. Hess v. Dean, 66 T. 663. An assignment based on the failure
of a judge to file his conclusions of law and fact, will not be considered in the absence of a
bill of exceptions. Hess v. Dean. 66 T. 663. An assignment complaining of the action of
the court in overruling certain exceptions to the petition containing two separate and distinct
objections, but not specifying the error complained of, will not be considered. An assign
ment is not aided by the proposition under it. Cannon v. Cannon, 66 T. 682. An assignment
complaining of the refusal of the court to give a certain charge containing several instruc
tions will not be considered. Cannon v. Cannon, 66 T. 6S2.
§ 4038. No answer to assignment of errors. The appellee or
defendant in error shall not be required to file any answer to such assignment
of errors or defects as may be insisted on by the appellant or plaintifff in
error, but he shall furnish the court with a brief of his argument and the
authorities on which he relies; and where the appellant or plaintifff in error
does not appear, or furnish the court with a brief of the cause, the appeal may
be dismissed or the appellee or defendant in error may, at his option, proceed
ex parte. [Act May 12, 1846; 1 Leg. p. 249; P. D. 1582.]
§ 1039. Briefs of attorneys sufficient appearance. When any
cause or suit may be taken up from any inferior court to the supreme court or court
of appeals, whether by appeal, writ of error or otherwise, it shall be lawful for
the attorney, both for plaintifff and defendant, to file in the papers of said
suit or cause his written brief or argument ; and the judge of said court shall be
"required to notice the same as if it were the personal appearance of such attor
ney, and shall not dismiss any suit or cause where such brief or argument
of counsel is filed with the papers, for want of other or further prosecution.
[Act Apr. 25, 1846; 1 Leg. p. 133; P. D. 1541.]
§ 1040. Disqualification of judges. No judge of the supreme
court or court of appeals shall sit in any cause wherein he may be interested
in the question to be determined, or where either of the parties may be con
nected with him by affinity or consanguinity, within the third degree, or where
he shall have been of counsel in the cause; and when either court or any two
of its members, shall be thus disqualified to hear and determine any cause or
causes in said court, the same shall be certified to the governor, who shall
immediately commission the requisite number of persons, learned in the law,
for the trial and determinatiorwof said case or cases. [Const. Art. 5, § 11 ;
Act May 12, 1846; 1 Leg. p. 249; P. D. 1575.]
§ 1041. Equal division of judges. Whenever the supreme court
or court of appeals shall be equally divided in opinion on hearing any appeal
or other matter, it shall be the duty of the chief justice or presiding judge of
the court to certify the same to the governor; also, all other causes of dis
ability of said court, as prescribed in the preceding article ; whereupon the
governor shall immediately commission the required number of persons learned
in the law for the determination of said case or cases ; provided, that the
person or persons so commissioned shall possess all the qualifications hereinbe
fore and hereinafter prescribed for judges, of the supreme court or court of
appeals. [Act May 12, 1846; 1 Leg. p. 249; P. D. 1576.]
§ 1042. Order of trial of causes. Causes on the docket of said
courts may be tried by districts, or in such order as to the judges of said court
may seem best calculated to promote the interest and convenience of the
parties or their attorneys. [Act Feb. 11. 1850; 3 Leg. S. S. p. 171; P. D.
1585.]
§ 1043. No reversal or dismissal for want of form. There
shall be no reversal on an appeal or writ of error, nor shall the same be dis
missed for want of form, provided sufficient matter or substance be contained
in the record to enable the court to decide the cause upon its merits ; arfH where
the court shall be of opinion that an appeal or writ of error has been taken
for delay, and that there was no sufficient cause for taking such appeal, then,
and in that case, the appellant or plaintifff in error, if he be the defendant in
the court below, shall pay ten per cent, on the amount in dispute, as damages,
together with the judgment, interest, and costs of suit thereon accruing. If
in any judgment rendered in the district or county court therf shall be an ex
cess of damages rendered, and before the plaintifff has entered a release of
the same in such court in the manner provided by law, such judgment shall be re
moved to the supreme court or court of appeals, it shall be lawful for the party
in whose favor such excess of damages has been rendered to make such re
lease in the supreme court or court of appeals in the same manner as such
release is required to be made in the district or county court; and upon such
release being filed in said supreme court or court of appeals, the said court,
after revising said judgment, shall proceed to give such judgment as the court
below ought to have given if the release had been made and filed therein.
[Act May 12, 1846; 1 Leg. p. 249; P. D. 52, 1580.]
§ 1044. No abatement on death of parlies, when. If anyparty
to the record, ia any cause now pending in or hereafter taken to the su
preme court or court of appeals, by appeal or writ of error, shall have died
heretofore, or shall hereafter die, after the appeal bond has been filed and apr
proved, or after the writ of error has been served, and before such cause has
been decided by the supreme court or court of appeals, such cause shall not
abate by such death, but the court shall proceed to adjudicate such cause, and
render judgment therein as if all the parties thereto were still UviDg, and such
judgment shall have the same force and effect as if rendered in the lifetime of
all the parties thereto ; provided, however, that this act shall not apply to any
suit or action in which the cause of action does not survive in favor of or
against the legal representatives of a deceased person. [Act Nov. 29, 1871 ;
12 Leg. S. S.'p. 51 ; P. D. 6463.]
§ 1045. Causes may be taken under advisement from one
term to another. The said courts may take any cause under advisement
from one term to another, and wh#n the same shall he decided may send the
judgment and opinion thereon to the clerk of said court at the place from
which said cause was taken, who shall enter such judgment in vacation as of
the term from which the cause was so taken. [Act April 2, 1874; 14 Leg. p.
49; P. D. 6463A;.[
§ 1046. Causes may be transferred from one term to
another, how. The said .courts may transfer causes from the term of either'
place to the term of any other place, upon the consent in writing of the par
ties, or their counsel, filed with the clerk and attached to the transcript of the
record ; and the parties to any cause, or their counsel, may, on tiling a writ
ten agreement for that purpose, with the clerk of the district or county court,
direct the transcript of the record in any appeal or writ of error to the su
preme court or court of appeals, with a certified copy of such agreement, to
be returned for hearing and judgment to either of the places where the
terms of said courts are held. [Act April 2, 1874; 14 Leg. p. 49; P. D.
«4fi3/.]
CHAPTER 8— JUDGMENT OF THE COURT.
§ * Art
1047. Judgments in openjeourt; opinions in
writing.
1048. Reversal, judgment on.
1049. Judgment against appellant, etc., for
damages, etc.
1050. Judgments final at end of term; man
date may issue, when.
§ 1047. Judgments .in open court ; opinions in writing. In
all cases decided by the supreme court or court of appeals, the judgment
or decree of the court shall be pronounced in open court; and the opinion of
the court shall be reduced to writing in those cases which the court in its dis
cretion may deem of sufficient importance to be reported, and such opinions
«hall be recorded by the clerk of the court in a book kept by him for that
purpose; provided, the opinions in all cases which are reversed aud remanded
for new trial shall be in writing. [Act Nov. 10, 18(!G; 11 Leg. p. 134;
P. D. 6417.]
§ 1048. Reversal, judgment on. When the judgment or decree of the
^ourt below shall be reversed the supreme court, or court of appeals, shall pro
ceed to render such judgment or decree as the court below should have rendered,
except when it is necessary that some matter of fact be ascertained, or the dam
ages to be assessed or the matter to be decreed is uncertain, in either of which
cases the cause shall be remanded for a new trial in the court below. [Act
May 12, 1846; 1 Leg. p. 249; P. D. 1562.]
§ 42.
§ 95. When the supreme court has reversed a judgment and remanded the cause
with directions as to entering a proper judgment, it will not reconsider its former judg
ment on an appeal prosecuted from the last judgment. The first decision is conclusive and
final as to all matters embraced therein. Lowell v. Ball, 58 T. 5G2; Holmes v. Coryell,
58 T. 6S0.
§ 1049. Judgment against appellant for damages. Whenever
the supreme court or court of appeals on the trial of n cause brought from
any inferior court, shall affirm the judgment or decree of such inferior court;
or when said court shall proceed to render such judgment or decree as should
have been rendered by the court below, and such judgment shall be for the
same or a greater amount, or of the same nature as rendered in the court be
low, stiid court shall render judgment against the appellant or plaintifff^ui error
and his sureties on the appeal-bond, it copy of which shall always accompany
the transcript of the record ; and said supreme court or court of appeals shall,
in their discretion, also include in their said judgment or decree such damages,
not exceeding ten per cent, on the amount of the original judgment, as the
court may deem proper; and the judgment or decree of said court rendered
as contemplated in this article shall be final. [Act March 13,i848; 2 Leg. p.
72; P. D. 1571.]
§ 1050. Judgments final at end of term; mandate may is
sue, when. The judgments rendered sit any term of said courts shall be
final ttt the end thereof; and the clerk shall issue the mandate thereon imme
diately after the close of the term ; but a mandate may issue on any judgment
before the term is closed, by an order on the minutes of the court upon good
ctiuse shown therefore, on a written application supported by proof satisfactory
to such court, and such order shall be subject to revision or revocation at any
time before the close of the term at which it Avas made. [Act Apr. 2, 1874 ;
14 Leg. p. 51, § 9; P. D. 6463/.]
§ 1051. Motion for, when and how made. Any party desiring
a rehearing of any matter determined by said court may, within fifteen days
after the date of entry of the judgment or decision of the court, file with the
clerk of said court his motion in writing for a rehearing thereof, in which
motion the grounds relied upon for the rehearing shall be distinctly specified,
and the name and residence of the counsel of the opposing party if known,
and if not known, then the name and residence of the opposing party as shown
in the record ; provided, that should the court adjourn within less time than
fifteen days after the rendition of the judgment it may make such rules and
regulations in reference to the filing of the motion as to it may seem best for
the promotion of the interest of all the parties concerned. [Act May 2, 1874 ;
14 Leg. p. 215, § 2 ; P. D. 64G3?.]
§ 1052. Notice to opposing party or attorney. Upon the filing
of such motion with the clerk of said court, he shall make a certified copy of
such motion and transmit the same by mail to the sheriff or any constable of
the county in which the attorney or opposing party, as the case may be, is al
leged m said motion to reside, together with a precept commanding him to
deliver the copy of the motion to the person named in such precept. [Act
May 2, 1874; 14 Leg. p. 215; P. D. 6463r.]
§ 1053. Service and return of officer. Upon the receipt of such
precept and copy of motion by the officer it shall be his duty to deliver the
copy of the mption to the person named in said precept, if found in his
county, and to return said precept to the court from which it issued, by mail,
stating thereon at what time and to whom he delivered the copy of the motion,
or that the party named in the precept is not to be found in his countv, as the
case may be. [Act May 2, 1874 ; 14 Leg. p. 215 ; P. D. 64(>3p.]
§ 1054. Service on one of several parties. Service of said
motion on any one of several parties or their attorneys to a cause, shall be
sufficient service on all.
§ 1055. When motion heard. At any time, after five days from
the return of such precept served, it shall be lawful for said supreme court or
court of appeals to hear and determine such motion for rehearing, and not
sooner. [Act May 2, 1874; 14 Leg. p. 215; P. D. 6463p.]
§ 1056. Process, how tested. All writs and process issuing from
the supreme court or court of appeals shall bear the test of the chief justice or
presiding judge of said court, and be under the seal of said court, and signed
by the clerk thereof, and may be directed to the sheriff or any constable of
any county in the state, and shall be by such officer executed according to the
command thereof, and returned to the court from which they emanated; and
whenever such writ or process shall not be executed, the clerk of said court is
hereby authorized and required to issue another like process or writ upon the
application of the party suing out the former writ or process to the same or
any other county. [Act May 12, 1846; 1 Leg. p. 249; P. D. 1573.]
§ 1057. Judgment enforced, how. Upon the rendition by the
supreme court or court of appeals of any such judgment or decree as is con
templated by article 1049, it shall not be necessary for the lower court from
which the cause was removed to make any further order or decree therein,
but the clerk of said lower court, on the receipt of the mandate of the supreme
court or court of appeals, shall proceed to issue execution thereon as in other
cases. [Act March 13, 1848; 2 Leg. p. 72; P. D. 1571.]
§1058. Clerk not compelled to issue mandate until costs
paid. On the rendition of any final judgment or decree by the supreme court
or court of appeals, the clerk of said court shall not be compelled to issue and
deliver the mandate of the court, or certify the proceedings to the proper
court, until all of the costs accruing on the cause in the supreme court or court
of appeals shall have been paid. But in case said clerk shall electto issue and
deliver the mandate of the court or certify the proceedings to the proper court,
without such costs having been paid, then he shall make out a correct list of
all the costs accruing in said cause in his court, and shall issue execution therefore
against the party and his sureties adjudged to pay the same, directed to the
sheriff or any constable of the proper county from which the original cause
was removed, or to any county where the person or persons liable under such
execution may have property; and it shall be the duty of every sheriff or
constable, on receipt of any such execution, to execute the same under the
same rules, regulations and liabilities as provided for in cases of executions
from the district courts. [Act March 13, 1848 ; 2 Leg. p. 72 ; P. D. 2568.]
§ 1059. Execution returnable, when. All executions for costs
of the supreme court or court of appeals, as authorized by law, shall be re
turned by the sheriff or constable to whom they are directed within four
months from the date thereof. [Act March 9, 1875; 14 Leg. S. S. p.
70, § 2.]
§ 1060. Officer failing to make return, etc. In case any officer
shall fail or refuse to make such return with the amount of such costs, if he
has collected the same within the time prescribed herein, or shall make a false
or fraudulent return of any such execution, the clerk of said supreme court
or court of appeals may issue citation returnable forthwith to such officer to
appear before said supreme court or court of appeals, and show cause if any
he can, why he has not collected and returned such costs and execution; and
failing to show cause, said court may enter judgment against such officer and
the sureties on his official bond for twice the amount of said costs, together
with the costs of such proceeding. [Act March 9, 1875 ; 14 Leg. S. S. p.
70, § 2.]
CH. 11.— JUDGES OF THE COURT OF APPEALS.
§
1061. Number of judges and quorum.
1062. Election and qualification of judges.
1063. Terms of office.
§
1064.
1005.
Presiding judge, how chosen; process,
how tested.
When judge is disqualified.
§ 1061. Number of judges and quorum. The court of appeals
shall consist of three judges, any two of whom shall constitute a quorum, and
the concurrence of two judges shall be necessary to a decision of said court.
[Const. Art. 5, § 5.]
§ 1062. Election and qualification of judges. Said judges
shall be elected by the qualified voters of the state at a goneral election.
They shall be citizens of the United States and of this state ; shall have arrived
at the age of thirty years at the time of election ; each shall have been a prac
ticing lawyer or a judge of a court in this state, or such lawyer and judge
together, for at least seven years. [Const. Art. 5, § 5.]
§ 1063. Term of office. Said judges shall hold their offices for a
term of six years and until their successors are qualified. [Const. Art.
5, § 5.]
§ 1064. Presiding judge; process, how tested. The judges of
the court of appeals ghall choose a presiding judge for said court from their
number, at such times as they think proper, and all writs and process issuing
from said court shall bear test in the name of said presiding judge and the seal
of the court. [Act May 6, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 4, § 8.]
§ 1065. When judge is disqualified. Whenever any of the
judges of the court of appeals are disqualified from sitting in any criminal case
for like reasons to those enumerated in article 1040, the same shall be certified
to the governor, who shall fill such temporary vacancy in the manner pre
scribed in articles 1040 and 1041. [Const. Art. 5, § 11.]
§ 1066. Times and places of holding terms. The court of
appeals shall hold its terms at the same times and places as the terms of the
supreme court are, or may be, l>y law required to be held ; and the court may
be adjourned for like causes and with like effect as is, or may be, provided in
the case of the supreme court. [Const. Art. 5, § 5 ; ante, Art. 1010.]
§ 1067. Appeals, etc., returnable where. Appeals and writs of
error from the several counties to the court of appeals shall be returnable to
the respective terms of said court, as is, or may be, provided for the
return of appeals and writs of error to the supreme court from such counties
respectively. [Ante, Arts. 1005-1009.]
CH. 13.—JURISDICTION OF THE COURT OF APPEALS.
§
1068. Jurisdiction of what cases.
1069. Writ of habeas corpus and other writs.
§
1070.
May ascertain matters of fact.
§ 1068. Jurisdiction of what cases. The court of appeals shall
have appellate jurisdiction, co-extensive with the limits of the state, of all
civil cases, of which the county courts have exclusive or concurrent original
jurisdiction, except cases involving mattei pertaining to the administration or
guardianship of estates of deceased persons, habitual drunkards, insane per
sons, and minors; and of all civil cases of which the county court have ap
pellate jurisdiction, where the judgment rendered, or the amount in contro
versy shall exceed one hundred dollars exclusive of interest and costs, and in
such other cases as are, or may be, provided by law; and such appellate juris
diction in criminal cases as is provided in the Code of Criminal Procedure.
[Const, Art. 5, § 6; Acts June 16, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 18; Aug. 18, 1876; 15
Leg. p. 172.]
§ 1069. Writ of habeas corpus, and other writs. The court
of appeals and the judges thereof shall have power to issue the writ of habeas
corpus ; and may under such regulations as may be prescribed by law, issue
such writs as may be necessary to enforce its own jurisdiction. [Const. Art.
5, § 6.]
§ 112.
§ 1070. May ascertain matters of fact, how. The court of
appeals shall have power upon affidavits, or otherwise, as by the court may be
thought proper, to ascertain such matters of fact as may be necessary to the
exercise of its jurisdiction. [Const. Art. 5, § 6.]
§ 121.
See, ante, Art. 1013 and notes.
CH. 14.— CLERKS OF THE COURT OF APPEALS.
§
1071. Appointment, tenure, aud removal of.
1072. Oath and bond of.
1073. Duties and liabilities of.
§
1074. Shall receive what records from clerk
of supreme court.
1075. May appoint deputies.
1070. Seal of the court of appeals.
§ 1071. Appointment, tenure and removal of. The court of
appeals shall appoint a clerk for each place at which it may sit, who shall hold
his office for four years, unless sooner removed by the court for good cause
entered on the minutes of said court. [Const. Art. 5, § 6.]
§ 1072. Oath and bond of. Said clerks shall, before entering upon
the duties of their offices, take and subscribe the oath of office prescribed by
the constitution, and shall give the same bond, to be approved by the court of
appeals, as is now or may hereafter be required by law of the clerks of the
supreme court. [Const. Art. 5, § 6 ; Act May 6, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 3.]
§ 1073. Duties and liabilities of. Said clerks shall perform as
clerks of the court of appeals the like duties as are now or may hereafter be
required by law of the clerks of the supreme court, and shall be subject to the
same liabilities as are now or may hereafter be prescribed for the clerks of the
supreme court. [Act May 6, 1876 ; 15 Leg. p. 3.]
§ 1074. Shall receive what records from clerk of supreme
court. Said clerks shall receive from the clerks of the supreme court, and
receipt for, all records of cases which have been or may hereafter be received
by said clerks of the supreme court, of which the court of appeals has or may
have, under the constitution and laws, exclusive appellate jurisdiction, and file
the same in said court of appeals. [Act May 6, 1876 ; 15 Leg. p. 3.]
§ 1075. May appoint deputies. Said clerks may appoint deputies,
who shall perform all the duties required of said clerks, and who shall be re
sponsible to said clerks for the faithful discharge of the duties of their offices.
[Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 169.]
§ 1076. Seal of the court of appeals. It shall be the duty of the
clerk of the court of appeals at Austin to procure a seal for said court, and a
copy thereof shall be made for each place where its session may now or may
hereafter be required by law to be held; it shall have a star with five points
with the words "Court of Appeals of Texas" engraved thereon. [Act May
6, 1876 ; 15 Leg. p. 3.]
CH. 15. — REPORTER TO THE COURT OF APPEALS.
§
1077. Appointment and removal of reporter.
1078. Duty of reporter; copy of reports de
livered to secretary of state.
1079. Requisites of each volume.
§
1080.
10S1.
1082.
Pay for state copies ; price to the pro
fession.
Records to be delivered to reporter.
How reporter paid for state copies.
§ 1077. Appointment and removal of reporter. The court of
appeals is authorized and required to appoint one or more reporters of its
decisions in criminal cases, and of such other of its decisions as may be re
quired by law to be published; such reporters shall be subject to removal by
said court for any inefficiency or neglect of duty. [Amendment May 3, 1882;
17 Leg. S.S. p. 7.]
The original article is based on the Act of Nov. 12, 1866; 11 Leg. p. 1S9; and the changes
made by the amendments relate to matters of detail.
Aet. 1078. Duty of reporter; copies of reports delivered to
§etary of state. It shall be the duty of the reporter to prepare for
publication, under the direction of said court, the said decisions thereof, and
cause the same to be printed and published with promptness, as fast as there
shall be a sufficient number to form a volume, and shall deliver to the secre
tary of state for the use of the state, one thousand copies of each volume of
the reports. The court of appeals shall designate, by order or otherwise, all
cases to be reported, and only such cases shall be reported as shall be desig
nated by the court of appeals for publication, and only the main propositions
specified by the court contained in the briefs of cases reported, with the
authorities relied on, shall be incorporated in such reports. [Amendment
May 3, 1882 ; 17 Leg. S. S. p. 7.]
§ 1079. Requisites of each volume. Each volume shall contain
an average number of pages of the volumes of the Texas Reports heretofore
published, and each page shall be twenty-six ems, pica, wide and forty-six
ems, pica, long. The type used shall be long primer and minion, of same
size used in volume XXIII, Wallace's United States Supreme Court Reports.
The lines shall be leaded with not thicker than eight to pica leads. The
paper, presswork nnd binding shall be of the same style and of at least equal
quality in every respect with the volumes of Moore and Walker's Reports
heretofore published. They shall be styled the "Court of Appeals Reports,"
and shall be so styled on the title page and back thereof, and the numbers of
the volumes shall be continued on consecutively. The name of the reporter
may be printed on the back, as on the volumes published by Moore and
Walker. [Amendment May 3, 1882 ; 17 Leg. S. S. p. 7.}
§ 1080. Payment of reporter. The reporter shall be entitled to
receive in payment for the one thousand copies of each volume delivered as
aforesaid, the following compensation, viz. ; the sum of five dollars and fifty
cents per page for as many pages as shall be contained in one copy of each
volume so delivered. [Amendment May 3, 1882; 17 Leg. S. S. p. 7.]
§ 1081. Records to be delivered to reporter. As soon as the
opinions are recorded, the originals, together with the records and papers in
each case to be reported, shall be delivered to the reporter, upon his giving a
receipt therefore, who shall return them to the respective clerks from whom he
received them, when he shall have finished using them. [Amendment May 3,
1882; 17 Leg. S. 8. p. 7.]
§ 1082. Vouchers for payment. When the reporter shall have
delivered to the secretary of state the copies of a volume of the reports as
required by this chapter, the comptroller of public accounts shall draw his
warrant upon the state treasurer for the amount of compensation due such/
reporter, based upon the certificate of the secretary of state, and the certificate
of the board of public printing, that the reporter has delivered to the secre
tary of state one thousand copies of the volume of the "Court of Appeals
Reports," containing ...... pages, printed, published and bound in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. The secretary of state is authorized to
sell single copies of each volume delivered as aforesaid, for the sum of four
dollars, exclusive of postage, the proceeds of such sales to be paid to the state
treasurer and the secretary of state to report thereon in his biennial report ;
provided, that the secretary of state shall retain five hundred copies of each
volume for the use of the state. [Amendment May 3, 1882; 17 Leg.
S. S. p. 7.1
CH. 16.— SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE COURT OF
APPEALS.
Clerk's lees in criminal cases.
§' Art.
1083. Transfer of cases from supreme court. 1085.
10S4. Mandate, how directed in cases of
change of jurisdiction.
§ 1083. Transfer of cases from. All cases which have been or
may hereafter be received by and filed in the supreme court, of which
the court of appeals has or may have, under the constitution and laws,
exclusive appellate jurisdiction, shall be transferred by said supreme court to
said court of appeals, and there considered and disposed of by said court as
thongh they had been originally carried to said court of appeals. [Act May
6, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 3.]
§ 1084. Mandate of, how directed in cases of change of juris
diction. When the court from which an appeal has been or may hereafter
be taken, or from which a writ of error has been or may hereafter be prose
cuted, has been or shall be deprived of jurisdiction over any case pending such
appeal or writ of error, and when such case shall have been or may hereafter
be determined by the court of appeals, the mandate of said court of appeals
shall be directed to the court to which jurisdiction has been or may hereafter
be given over such case. [Act May 6, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 3.]
§ 1085. Clerk's fees in criminal cases. In every state case of a
less grade than felony, in which an appeal is taken to the court of appeals,
and the judgment of the court below is affirmed against the defendant, all fees
due the clerk of said court in said case shall be adjudged against the defendant
and his sureties on his recognizance, for which execution shall issue as in other
cases of appeal to the court of appeals. Should said case be reversed by the court
of appeals and a new trial be had in the court below, and the defendant con
victed, then the costs aforesaid in favor of the clerk of the court of appeals
shall be taxed by the court below against the defendant, and a certified copy
of said bill of costs by the clerk of the court of appeals, filed in the court be
low, shall be sufficient to require said costs to be taxed and collected as other
costs against the defendant in the court below. [Act March, 1875, 14 Leg.
p. 69]
CH. 17. — COMMISSION OF APPEALS.
§ 10S5a.
§ 1. Appointment, qualifications, term, sal
ary, etc., of commissioners.
§ 2. Shall have power to hear and determine
cases pending in supreme court re
ferred thereto by written consent of
parties.
§3. The commissioners' award, in cases re
ferred by consent, to become judg
ment in the supreme court—Supreme
court shall make orders necessary to
render said award effective.
§ 4. Opinions in cases transferred by con
sent shall not be reported — Shall
have the force of res adjudicata, but
not of stare decisis, unless otherwise
determined by the supreme court.
§ 5. The supreme court may refer cases to
said commission — Notice to parties
in such cases, etc.
§ 6. Opinion, etc., by the commission in
such cases shall be submitted to the
supreme court with record, etc.
§ 10S5a.
§ 7. Opinions of commission in referred
cases, when adopted, shall be pub
lished as opinions of the supreme
court.
§ 8. Costs, etc., in cases referred to the
commission.
§ 9. The commission may appoint clerk —
Clerk fees — Prescribing the sessions
thereof, etc.
§ 10. Prescribes form of seal to be used by
said commission.
§ 11. Commission shall have power to issue
writs of certiorari, etc., and to punish
for contempt.
§ 12. Bales of procedure and practice in the
supreme court shall apply in the
commission.
§ 13. Appropriates 820,500 to pay the sal
aries of commissioners.
§ 14. Commission to be discontinued, when.
§ 1085a. Appointment, qualifications, term, salary, etc., of
commissioners. § 1. A commission of arbitration and award, to consist
of three persons, learned in the law, to be appointed by the governor, by and
with the advice and consent of the senate, if in session, who shall hold their
offices for two years from the first day of April, a.d. 1887, and receive for their
services the same salaries as judges of the supreme court of the State of Texas,
be and the same is hereby created, to be styled the " Commission of Appeals
of the State of Texas." In case of a vacancy on said commission by tha
death or resignation of any member thereof during the vacation of the legis
lature, it shall be the duty of the governor to fill the same by appointment,
and the person so appointed shall continue in office until the next regular ses
sion of the legislature after the appointment. [Acts March 30, July 4, 188720 Leg. p. 74.]
0) A commission of arbitration and award was created by the Act of July 9th, 1879; 16
Leg. S. S. p. 30. It had power to hear and pronounce award upon all civil cases pending in
the supreme court or the court of appeals, referred to it by consent of parties. The conclu
sion or award of the commission was reported to the court by which the case was referred,
and was made the judgment of the court. Such orders were made by the proper court as
were necessary or proper to make the award effective. It wras held that the commission was
not a court but simply a board of referees or arbitrators, whose award could be made the
judgment of the court, and whose opinion was limited to the particular case in which it was
delivered. Henderson v. Beaton, 52 T. 29. The Act of 1879 was amended by the Act of Feb.
9th, 18S1; 17 Leg. p. 4, which also authorized the supreme court and court of appeals to refer
to the commission civil cases pending in those courts for examination and reports, which
could be used by the respective courts to facilitate them in reaching a conclusion upon the law
and facts of the case. The opinion of the commissioners when adopted by the court were
published as the opinion thereof in other cases. The Act of Feb. 9th, 1881, was held to be
constitutional. Stone v. Brown, 54 T. 330. It was further held that questions decided by the
commission in arriving at their award, in cases referred to them by agreement, are as conclu
sively settled for the purpose of further proceedings in that case, as they would be by the
adjudication of the case by the appellate court. Burns v. Led better, 66 T. 282; Stelle v.
Shannon, 62 T. 198. And the conclusions announced by the commissioners, when adopted by
the court, are as authoritative as any of its own decisions. Wooters v. Hollingsworth, 5S T.
371. But the adoption of the conclusions of the commission does not imply an approval of the
reasons given therefore. Hearn v. Gillett, 62 T. 23. Further amendments were made by the
Act of March 20th, 1SS3; 18 Leg. p. 25; and the commission was continued until Oct. 1, 1S85,
when it ceased to exist.
§ 2. Power to hear and determine cases. Said commission shall
have the power to hear and pronounce award upon all civil cases now or here
after pending in the supreme eourt, wherein the parties or their attorneys may
file consent in writing to the reference thereof to said commission.
§3. The commissioners' award to become judgment. Said com
mission shall report its conclusions or award to the supreme court in the cases
so referred, and may accompany the same with a brief synopsis of the case
and their opinion thereon ; and the conclusions or award aforesaid shall be
and become the judgment of the said supreme court, and said court shall make
and render such further order, judgment, or decree thereon as may be neces
sary or proper to make said award effective.
$ 4. Opinions not to be reported; shall have what force. The
opinion of said commission in the cases so referred to it by consent, in writing,
shall not be published in the reports of the decisions of the supreme court, nor
shall the same have any further or other effect than to determine the particular
cause wherein rendered, and shall have no force or effect or authority as pre
cedent in other causes, unless otherwise decided by the supreme court.
§ 5. The supreme court may refer cases to said commission ;
notice to parties in such cases. The supreme court is hereby authorized
and empowered to refer to said commission of appeals of the State of Texas
any case or cases now or hereafter pending before said court, for examination
and report thereon ; and it shall be the duty of said supreme court, in order
to relieve the docket of said court of the great number of cases now encum
bering it, from time to time to refer to said commission of appeals so many
of said cases now or hereafter pending in said court as may be reasonably
considered and acted upon by the same at the several sessions thereof, having
respect in such reference to the length of time such cases have boon pending
as well as to promote an early disposition of the cases on the docket; Pro
vided, that when any case isjp'eferred by the supreme court to said commis
sion of appeals, the counsel for both parties shall have notice thereof, and
shall have the right to be heard upon same as if said cause were tried by the
supreme court; and said commission of appeals shall make rules regulating
the hearing of causes submitted to them.
§ 6. Opinion, etc., shall be submitted to the supreme court.
When said commission of appeals have considered and determined upon the
proper disposition of any case referred to the same, according to section 5 of
this act, their opinion shall be submitted, together with a brief synopsis of the
case, to the supreme court, and the record shall be returned therewith ; the
rsports so made may be used by said supreme court to facilitate it in reaching
a conclusion upon the law and facts of the case.
§ 7. Opinions, when adopted, shall be published. The opinion
of said commission of appeals in cases referred to it by the supreme court,
when adopted by said court, shall be published as the opinion thereof, as in
other cases.
§ 8. Costs, etc., in cases referred to the commission. In cases
referred to the commission of appeals under this act the papers shall not be
refiled in said commission, and only snch additional costs as may be essential
to carry into effect the provisions hereof shall be incurred by the parties to
such cases by reason of the reference thereof.
§ 9. The commission may appoint clerk. Said commission shall
hold its sessions at the same times and places as the supreme court, and may
appoint one clerk, if necessary, and if no such clerk be appointed the duties
of that office shall be performed by the clerks of the supreme court at the dif
ferent branches thereof, who shall receive in either case the same fees as are
allowed by law to the clerks of the supreme court for like services.
§ 10. Form of seal to be used ; record and proceedings, effect
of. Said commission shall have a seal, being a star with five points and the
words "Commission of Appeals of the State of Texas" around the same.
Regular dockets and minutes of all proceedings by or before said commission
shall be kept, and the records and proceedings thereof shall be entitled to the
same verity as are records and proceedings of courts of record, and all cases
shall be docketed in the order in which they are transferred or referred by the
supreme court.
§ 11. Power to issue writs of certiorari, etc. Said commission
shall have the right to issue writs of certiorari to perfect the record, and such
process as the supreme court might issue to make parties, and shall have the
power to punish for contempt.
§ 12. Rules shall apply in the commission. All laws and rnles
regulating practice and procedure in the supreme court shall be of force in the
practice and proceedings of said commission so far as the same are applicable,
and all applications for rehearing in cases referred to said commission by con
sent in writing shall be made before and determined by the commission.
§ 13. Salaries of commissioners. The sum of twenty thousand five
hundred dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessaiy, is hereby appropri
ated, out of any monies in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the
payment of the salaries of the judges of said commission for the period end
ing March, a. d. 1889.
§ 14. Commission to be discontinued, when. This act snail be
come inoperative and the terms of all officers appointed hereunder shall cease
whenever by the adoption of an amendment to the judiciary article of the
constitution, or by legislation under such newlv adopted amendment, the
number of judges of the supreme court may b*increased. Act March 30,
o
. 74,'!
1887; 20 Leg. p. 74.]
§ 1086. District judge, election and qualification of. There shall be
elected for each judicial district, by the qualified voters thereof, at a general
election for members of the legislature, a judge, who shall be at least twentyfive
years of age, shall be a citizen of the United States, shall have been a
practicing attorney or a judge of a court in this state for the period of four
years, and shall have resided in the district in which he is elected for two
years next before his election, and shall reside in his district during his term
of office. [Const, art. 5, 8 7.]
§ 1087. Term of office. The judge of the district court shall hold his
office for the term of four years and until his successor shall have duly quali
fied. [Const, art. 5, § 7, and art. 16, § 17.]
§ 1088. Oath of office. The judge of the district court, and each special
judge hereinafter provided for, shall, before entering upon the duties of his
office, take the 'oath of office prescribed by the constitution. [Const, art. 16,
§ 1089. Yacancy in office, how filled. Any vacancy in the office of a
judge of the district court shall be filled by the governor until the next suc
ceeding general election. [Const, art. 5, § 28.]
§ 1090. Judge disqualified, when. No judge of the district court shall
sit in any cause wherein he may be interested, or where he shall have been
of counsel, or where either of the parties may
affinity or consanguinity within the third degree.
be connected with him by
[Const, art. 5, § 11.]
§ 1091. Appointment of judge by parties. When a judge of the dis
trict court is disqualified by any of the causes above stated, the parties mav
by consent appoint a proper person to try such case. [Const, art. 5, § 11 ; P. l5.
1419.]
§ 1092. Appointment of judge by tha governor. Whenever a judge of
the district court is disqualified to try a civu case pending in any of the courts
of his district, and the parties shall fail at the first term of the court to agree
upon a special judge, it shall be the duty of the judge to certify to the gov
ernor that he is disqualified to try such case and the failure of the parties to
agree upon a proper person to try the same ; whereupon the governor shall
proceed to appoint some person learned in the law to try such case. [Const,
§ 5, § 11.]
§ 1092a. Appointment of judge — Additional provisions. Whenever
any case or cases are called or pending, in which the district judge or the spe
cial judge chosen, as hereinbefore provided, shall be a party, or have an inter
est, or have been attorney, or of counsel, or otherwise disqualified from sitting
in and trying the same, no change of venue shall be made necessary thereby ;
but the parties or their counsel snail have the right to select and agree upon
an attorney of the court for the trial thereof ; and if the parties or their at
torneys shall fail to select or agree upon an attorney for the trial of such case,
at or "before the time it is called for trial, or if the trial of the case is pending;
and the district judge should become unable to act, or is absent and a special
judge is selected who is disqualified to proceed with the trial, and the parties
fail to select or agree upon a special judge who is qualified, at once, it shall be
the duty of the district judge, or special judge presiding, to certify the fact to
the governor immediately, by telegram, mail, or otherwise, whereupon the
fovernor shall appoint a special judge, not so disqualified, to try the same.
he evidence of such appointment by the governor may be transmitted by
telegram or otherwise. The special judge so appointed shall qualify as pro
vided in section first of this act, and such special judge shall .proceed to the
trial or disposition of such case immediately, if the trial is pending, otherwise
when called or reached, as in other cases. [Act of January 17, 1879, 16th Leg.
p. 1.]
§ 1093. Record of appointment of special judge. Whenever a special
judge is agreed upon by the parties, or is appointed by the governor for the
trial of any particular cause as above provided, the clerk shall enter in the
minutes oi tne court, as a part of the proceedings in such cause, a record
showing — 1. That^the judge of the court was disqualified to try the cause,
and 2. That such special judge [naming him] was, by consent, agreed upon by
the parties to try the cause ; or 3. That the parties having failed to agree upon
a proper person to try the cause, and the judge of the court having certified
♦ that fact to the governor, he had appointed such special judge [tiaming him]
to try the cause; and 4. That the oath prescribed by law has been duly ad
ministered to such special judge. [Act Aug. 15, 1876; Nov. 19, p. 141, § 2;
15th Leg. p. 140.]
§ 1094. Election of special judge. Whenever on the day appointed for
a term of the district court, or at any time before the expiration of the term,
or the completion of all the business of the coutt, the judge thereof shall be
absent or shall be unable or unwilling to hold the court, there shall thereby be
no failure of the term, and no failure to proceed with the business of the court,
but the practicing lawyers of such court present thereat may proceed to elect
from among their number a special judge of said court, who shall proceed to
hold said court and conduct the business thereof, and shall have all the power
and authority of the judge of said court, during such continued absence or in
ability, and until the completion of any business begun before- such special
judge. [Act Aug. 15, 1876; Nov. 19, 1876, § 1; 15th Leg. p. 140.]
§ 1095. Electoral body, how constituted. Such election shall be by
ballot, and each practicing lawyer^n attendance at such court shall be entitled
to participate in such election, and shall be entitled to one vote ; and a majority
of the votes of all the practicing lawyers present and participating shall be
necessary to the election of such special judge. [Act Aug. 15, 1876, p. 140, § 2.]
§ 1096. Election, how conducted. The mode of conducting such election
shall be as follows : The sheriff or constable shall make proclamation at the
court-house door that the election of a special judge of the court is about to be
made by the practicing lawyers present thereat ; the clerk shall then make a
roll or list of all the practicing lawyers present ; and such lawyers shall then
proceed to organize and hold the election as hereinbefore provided. [Act Aug.
15, 1876; Nov. 19, 1876, § 1 ; 15th Leg. p. 140.]
§ 1097. Officers appointed pro tem., when. Should the sheriff or con
stable and clerk, or either of them, fail or refuse to act, the said practicing
lawyers may nevertheless proceed to organize themselves into such electoral
body, and appoint a sheriff and clerk pro tern,., to do the duties of such officers
respectively. [Act Aug. 15, 1876; Nov. 19, 1876, § 2| 15th Leg. p. 140.]
§ 1098. Kecord of election, how made, etc. It shall be the duty of the
clerk to enter upon the minutes of the court a record of the election of such
special judge, showing —
1. The names of all the practicing lawyers present and participating in such
election.
2. The fact that public proclamation was made at the court-house door that
such election was about to take place.
3. The number of ballots polled at such election and the number polled for
each person, and the result of the election.
4. That the oath prescribed by law had been duly administered to the special
judge. [Act Aug. 15, 1876; Nov. 19, 1876, §*2; 15th Leg. p. 140.]
§ 1099. Eecord of election, effect of. The record of such proceedings,
showing a substantial compliance with the requirements of the law in that
behalf, shall be conclusive evidence of the election and qualification of such
special judge. [Act Aug. 15, 1876; Nov. 19, 1876, § 2; 15th Leg. p. 140.]
§ 1100. Elections held from time to time. Like elections may be held
from time to time during the term of the court to supply the absence, failure
or inability of the judge, or of any special judge, to perform the duties of the
office. [Aot Aug. 15, 1876; Nov. 19, 1876, § 2; 15th Leg. p. 140.]
§ 1100a. Clerk, election and term of office. There shall be a clerk for
the district court of each county, who shall be elected at a general election for
members of the legislature by the qualified voters of such county, who shall
hold his office for two years and until his successor shall have duly qualified.
[Const, art. 5, § 9; art. 16, § 17.]
See art 1116a.
§ 1101. Yacancy in office of clerk, how filled. Whenever a vacancy may,
from any cause, occur in the office of clerk of the district court, the same shall
be filled by the judge of the district court of such county, and the clerk so ap
pointed shall give bond and qualify in the same manner as if he had been
elected, and shall hold his office until the next general election, and until his
successor shall have duly qualified. [Const, art. 5, § 9 ; art. 16, § 17 ; Act of
Aug. 19, 1874; 15th Leg. p. 233.]
§ 1102. Bond and oath of clerk. Each clerk of the district court shall,
before entering on the duties of his office, give bond, with two or more good
and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the commissioners' court of the
county, pavable to the governor and his successor in office, in the sum of five
thousand dollars, conditioned for the safe-keeping of the records and the faith
ful discharge of the duties of his office, and shall also take and subscribe the
oath of office required by the constitution, which shall be indorsed upon the
bond, and the bond and oath, so taken and approved, shall be filed and recorded
in the office of the clerk of the county court.
Suit on clerk's bond. A certified copy of such bond may be put in suit, in
the name of the governor, for the use of the party injured, and shall not
become void on the recovery of part of the penalty thereof, but may be sued
on from time to time by the parties injured, until the whole amount of the
is recovered. [Act May 11, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 20; 1st Leg. p. 200.]
§ 1103. Deputies, appointment of. The clerk of the district court,
whether elected or appointed, shall have power to appoint one or more depu
ties by a written appointment under his hand and the seal of his court, which
appointment shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the county court, and
shall be by him recorded. [Act May 11, 1846; June 12, 1846, § 21; 1st Leg.
p. 200; P. D. 501.]
§ 1104. Deputies, oath and powers of. Such deputies shall take the
oath of office prescribed by the constitution ; they shall act in the name of
their principal, and may do and perform all such official acts as may be law
fully done and performed by such, clerk in person.
§ 1105. Office shall be kept at county seat. The several clerks of the
district courts shall keep their offices at the county seats of thejr respective
counties, and when the clerk does not reside at such county seat he shall have
a deputy, or deputies, residing there.
§ 1106. Duties of clerk. The several clerks of the district court shall
have power to administer all oaths and affirmations required in the discharge of
their official duties, to take the depositions of witnesses, and generally to per
form all such duties as are, or ma\T be, imposed upon them by law. [Act May
11, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 23; 1st Leg. p. 200.]
§ 1107. Records of proceedings, etc., how kept. Such clerks shall also
keep a fair record of all the acts done, and proceedings had, in their respective
courts; they shall enter all judgments of the court, under the direction of the
judge, and shall keep a record of all executions issued and of the returns
thereon, in record books to be kept for the purpose. [Act May 11, 1846 ; June
22, 1846, § 24; 1st Leg. p. 200; P. D. 504.]
Aet. 1108. Dockets, etc., shall be kept. They shall also keep such other
dockets and books as are, or may be, required by law.
Aet. 1109. Reports of lines and jury fees, how made. In addition to the
reports required of the clerk of the district court under the several provisions
of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it shall be his duty on the last day of each
term of the court to make out a statement in writing, which shall set forth all
monies received by him for jury fees and fines, with the names of the parties
from whom received, up to the date of such statement, and since his previous
statement, if any such has been made ; and also, the name of each juror who
has served at such term, the number of days he served, and the amount due
him for such services, which statement shall be examined by the judge holding
such court, and if found to be correct shall be approved and signed oy him.
Should the judge consider such statement erroneous, he may make such
corrections therein as he may deem necessary, and shall then approve and
sign the same. Such statement when so approved and signed shall be recorded
in the minutes of the court. [Act Nov. 15, 1864, p. 7, § 9 ; P. D. 4014.]
§ 1109a. Fines and jury fees, to whom paid. It shall be the duty of the
clerk to pay over to the county treasurer all jury fees and fines received by
him, to the use of the county. , *
Aet. 1110. Records, etc., in former suits, how kept. All records of judg
ments, executions and all other papers and proceedings in suits heretofore had
in the district courts of the several counties of the republic or state of Texas,
shall be kept in the office of the clerks of the district courts of such counties,
and the same proceedings may be had thereon as if such suits had been com
menced and such proceedings had in the district courts of this state as now
organized. [Act May 11, 1846 ; June 22, 1846, § 26 ; 1st Leg. p. 200 ; P. D. 506.]
Aet. 1111. Records of former county courts, how kept. All records of judg
ments, executions and all other papers and proceedings in suits heretofore had
in the county courts of the republic of Texas prior to the 1st day of February,
1839, and of the county courts of the state as organized under the act entitled
" An act to organize the county courts and to define the powers and jurisdic
tion thereof," approved October 25, 1866, shall be kept in the office of the
clerks of the district courts of such counties, and the same proceedings mav
be had thereon as if such suits had been commenced and such proceedings haa
in the district courts as now organized. [Act Mav 11, 1846; June 22, 1846,
§ 27; 1st Leg. p. 200; Act August 8, 1870; October "14, 1870, § 1-4; 12th Leg.
S. S. p. 48.]
§ 1112. Books, seals, etc., custody of. The clerks of the district courts
shall have the custody of all the minutes, records, books, papers and seals which
now are, or may have been heretofore, or may be hereafter, deposited in their
respective offices in accordance with law, and it shall be their duty carefully
to attend to the arrangement and preservation of the same. [Act May 11,
1846; June 22, 1846, § 22; 1st Leg. p. 200; P. D. 502.]
Aet. 1113. Indexes to suits, etc., how kept. They shall also provide and
keep in their respective offices, as part of the records thereof, full and complete
alphabetical indexes of the names of the parties to all suits filed in their said
courts ; which indexes shall be kept in well-bound books, and shall state in full
the names of all the parties to such suits, which shall be indexed and crossindexed,
so as to show the name of each party under the proper letter; and a
reference shall be made opposite each name to the page of the minute book
upon which is entered the judgment in each case. [Act June 21, 1876 ; No
vember 19, 1876, § 1 ; 15th Leg. p. 25.]
Akt. 1114. Clerk, duties of on vacating office. Whenever a clerk of the
district court shall vacate his office, he shall transfer to his successor all the
records, books and papers of the office.
§ 1115. One clerk for district and county courts, elected when. In
counties having a population of less than eight thousand persons only one
clerk shall be elected, who shall take the oath and give the bond required of
clerks, both of the district and county court, and who shall have all the pow
ers and perform all the duties of such clerks respectively. [Const, art 5, § 20.]
See art. 1116a.
Abt. 1116. Seal to be used by district clerk. When in any county a single
clerk shall have been elected, as provided in the preceding article, he shall, in
performing the duties, of clerk of the district court, use the seal of said court,
and authenticate his official acts as clerk of such district court.
See art. 1181.
§ 1116a. Additional provisions in regard to the election oi a single
clerk.
§ 1. In counties in this state having a population of less than eight thousand
inhabitants, one person may hold the offices of both clerk of the district court
and county court. The number of inhabitants to be determined on the basis
of five inhabitants for every vote cast for governor at the last preceding gen
eral election held in this state in said counties. [Act of March 13, 1879, took
effect July 24, 1879 ; 16th Leg. p. 34.1
§ 2. That all acts heretofore done by any persons holding both the offices of
clerk of the district and county courts, which are authorized by this act, or
any pre-existing law, are hereby legalized, and shall be as valid as though this
law was in effect at the time of said acts. [Id.]
§ 3. That all laws in conflict with this act be and the same are hereby re
pealed. [Id.]
See arts. 1110, 1116, 1159 '
§ 1116J. Clerk pro tern, appointed, when.
§ 1. In all cases wherein any district or county clerk in this state is, or
shall hereafter be, a party to any pending or proposed suit, motion, or proceed
ing in their respective courts, the district or county judge in whose court the
same may be pending or proposed shall, either in term time or in vacation, on
application of any person interested, or of his own motion, appoint a clerk
nro tern, for the purposes of such suit, motion or proceeding.
§ 2. Any person so appointed clerk shall take the oath to faithfully and
impartiallv perform the duties of such appointment, and shall also enter into
bond, payable to the state of Texas, with one or more good and sufficient
sureties, in such amount as may be required by the judge, to be approved bv
him, and conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties under such
appointment. .
§ 3. The person so appointed shall perform all the duties required by law
of the clerk in the particular suit, motion or proceeding in which he may be
appointed. [Act April 2, July 4, 1887; 20th Leg. p. 102.1
For Index, see end of Title 29.
§ 1117. Original jurisdiction of district court. The district court shall
have original jurisdiction in civil cases :
1. Of all suits in behalf of the state to recover penalties, forfeitures and
escheats.
2. Of all cases of divorce.
3. Of all suits to recover damages for slander or defamation of character.
4. Of all suits for the trial of title to land and for the enforcement of liens
thereon.
5. Of all suits for trial of right to property levied on by virtue of any writ
of execution, sequestration or attachment, when the property levied on shall
be equal to or exceed in value five hundred dollars ; and
6. Of all suits, complaints or pleas whatever, without regard to any dis
tinction between law and equity, when the matter in controversy shall be
valued at or amount to five hundred dollars exclusive of interest. [Const.
§ 5, § 8.]
§ 1118. Jurisdiction in probate matters. The district court shall also
have appellate jurisdiction and general control in probate matters over the
county court established in each county for appointing guardians, granting
letters testamentary and of administration, for settling the accounts of execu
tors, administrators and guardians, and for the transaction of business apper
taining to estates. The district court shall also have such original jurisdiction
and general control over executors, administrators, guardians and minors as is
or may be provided by law. [Const, art. 5, § 8; Act May 11, 1846; June 22,
1846, § 3; 1st Leg. p.«200; P. D. 1406.]
See art. 1131.
§ 16, Const. Prendergast v. Beale, 59 T. 446 ; Franks v. Chapman, 61 T.
676. The county court having no jurisdiction over a contest for property by the administrator
and one claiming adversely, the district court acquires no jurisdiction by appeal. Wadsworth
v. Chick, 55 T. 241. See end of cli.
§ 1119. Jurisdiction of motions against officers of court. The dis
trict court shall also have power to hear and determine all motions against
sheriffs and other officers of the court for failure to pay over monies collected
under the process of said court, or other defalcation of duty in connection
with such prooess, and of motions against attorneys for. money collected by
them and not paid over. [Act May 11, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 5; 1st Leg.
p. 200; P. D. 1408.]
§ 1120. Power to punish contempts. The district court shall also
have power to punish by line not exceeding one hundred dollars, and by im
prisonment not exceeding three days, any person guilty of contempt of such
court. [Act May 11, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 6; 1st Leg. p. 200; P. D. 1409.]
§ 1121. Jurisdiction of cases transferred from county court. The
district court shall also have power to try all such cases as may be transferred
to said court from the county court on account of the disqualification of the
county judge to try the same ; and where there exists any cause disqualifying
the county judge for the trial of a case of which the county court has juris
diction, the district court of the county shall have original jurisdiction thereof.
[Const, art. 5; Act June 16, 1876; Nov. 19, 1876, § 6; 15th Leg. p. 17.]
See art 1118.
§ 1122. Law and equity powers of district court. Subject to the lim
itations stated in this chapter, the district court is authorized to hear and de
termine any cause which is or may be cognizable by courts, either of law or
equity, and to grant any relief which could oe granted by said courts, or either
of them. [Act May 11, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 7; 1st Leg. p. 200; P. D. 1410.]
§ 1123. Remedial writs, when and how granted. The judge of the dis
trict court shall have authority, either in term time or in vacation, to grant writs
of m-andamus, injunction, sequestration, attachment, garnishment, certiorari
and supersedeas, and all other writs necessary to the enforcement of the juris
diction of the court. [Act May 11, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 4; 1st Leg. p. 200;
P. D. 1407.]
§ 681.
§ 1124. Judges may hold courts for or with other judges, etc. Any
judge of the district court may hold courts for or with any other district judge,
and the judges of the several district courts may exchange districts whenever
they may deem it expedient to do so. [Act May 11, 1846 ; June 22, 1846, § 15 ;
1st Leg. p. 200; P. D. 1418.]
§ 1125. Judge may appoint counsel, when. The judge of the district
court shall also have power to appoint counsel to attend to the cause of any
party who may make affidavit that he is too poor to employ counsel to attend to
the same. [Act May 11, 1846 ; June 22, 1846, § 11 ; 1st Leg. p. 200 ; P. D. 1414.]
§ 1126. Additional powers of courts, etc. In addition to the foregoing
powers and jurisdiction, the district courts and the judges thereof shall have
such authority as is or may be vested in them by law.
§ 22, of the constitution, the legislature has power to divest the civil and
criminal jurisdiction of county courts, and transfer the same to the district court. Mora v.
State, 9 Ct. of App. 406. See" post, article 1172a. When a cause has been transferred from
the county to the district court, and the defendant appears, demands a jury, and agrees that
the case may be set for trial, he cannot afterwards question the regularity of the transfer.
Marx v. Heidenheimer, 63 T. 304. See note 2, art. 1117.
§ 1126a. Administration of estate, etc., transferred to connty court,
when.
§ 1. The judges of the district courts of this state may, by an order made
and entered in open court upon the minutes of such court, upon the appli
cation in open court of any person interested as administrator, executor,
heir, legatee, devisee, distributee, creditor or guardian in the administration of
the estate of a deceased person, or in the guardianship of a minor, person of
unsound mind, or habitual drunkard, pending in such court, transfer such ad
ministration or guardianship to the county court of the county in which such
district court is there being held for further administration, upon satisfactory
evidence that the county judge of said county is legally qualified to act as
such in such administration. [Act March 30, 1881 ; 17th Leg. 72.]
§ 2. All orders of transfer of estates of deceased persons, minors, persons of
unsound mind, or habitual drunkards, from the district courts to the county
courts for further administration that may have heretofore been made by such
district courts under conditions similar to those required by the first section of
this act, shall be as valid to all intents and purposes as if made under the au
thority of this act.
§ 3. Immediately after the termination of the courts at which the order of
transfer authorized by the first section of this act is made, it shall be the duty
of the clerk thereof to transmit all the papers relating to such administration
or guardianship, together with a transcript, certified by him under the seal of
said district court, of the record of all orders, judgments and decrees of such
district court in relation to such estate, to the county clerk of his county for
which services he shall be allowed such fees as are now allowed him by'law
for similar services, to be paid as expenses of administration.
§ 1127. Terms of court, when and where held. The several judges of
the district courts shall hold the regular terms of their said courts at the county
seat of each county in the district twice in each year, unless additional terms
should be prescribed by law, and shall hold such special terms as may be re
quired by law. [Const, art. 5, § 7.]
§ 1128. Adjournment of term where there is no judge. Should the judge
of any district court not appear at the time appointed for holding the same,
and should no election of a special judge be had, the sheriff of the county, or
in his default any constable of the county, shall adjourn the court from day to
day for three days ; and if the judge should not appear on the morning of the
fourth day, and should no special judge have been elected, the sheriff or con
stable, as the case may be, shall adjourn the court until the next regular term
thereof. [Act May 11, 1846 ; June 22, 1846, § 9 ; 1st Leg. p. 200.]
§ 1128a. Terms of court in newly organized counties. — Whenever any
unorganized county within this state has become organized, or may hereafter
become organized, there being no time fixed by law for holding district court in
such counties, the district judge in whose judicial district such county is situated
shall fix times to hold at least two terms of court each year in each of such
counties by a written declaration, to be forwarded by the district judge to the
district clerk of the county, and by him spread on the minutes of the district
court. "When the times are so fixea they shall not be changed except by an act
of the legislature. [Act of April 25, 1882; Aug. 4, 1882; 17th Leg. S. S. 4.]
Act held constitutional. Ex parte Mato, 19 App. 112.
§ 11285. Special terms, held when.
§ 1. Hereafter, in any county in this state where it may become necessary
in the opinion of the district* judge of the district in which said county is
situated, on account of an accumulation of business which cannot be disposed
of in the time provided for the regular term of the district court, there may
be held a special term or terms of the district court for the transaction and
disposition of the accumulated business undisposed of, as provided in this act.
[Act of March 22, 1879, took effect July 24, 1879; 16th Leg. 42.]
§ 2. Order for special term, when and how made. Whenever it may
become necessary, in the opinion of the' district judge, to hold a special term
in any county in his district, under the provisions of this act, he shall cause to
be entered an order to that effect upon the minutes of a regular term of the
court held in said county, and in said order shall appoint the time for the hold
ing of such special term at a day not less than thirty days after the adjourn
ment of the regular term at which such order is entered, which order shall
state the length of time deemed necessary for the holding of such special
term. [lb.]
§ 3. Notice of special term, how given. Upon the order provided for
in section two of this act being entered, the clerk of the district court of such
county shall issue six notices containing a copy of the order of the court as
entered, and also the name, style and number of each case appearing upon
the docket of said court which will be before the court for disposition at
such special term, which notice and copies shall be under seal of the court.
[ib.y
§ 4. Service of notice, how made. The sheriff shall post the true copies
of said notice at six public places in such county, one of wnich shall be at the
court-house door, and shall return the original notice to the special term, with
his return thereon, stating the manner in which he has executed the same,
which notice and return shall be entered in full in the minutes of the court.
[/a.]
§ 5. Transaction of business at special term. At any special term under
the provisions of this act no grand jury shall be empaneled and no new cases
can oe brought to said term, mit the jury commissioners at the regular term
of the court at which the order for a special term is entered, shall, under the
instruction of the court, select a regular venire for each week of such special
term, which shall be done in accordance with the law regulating juries for any
regular term of the court ; provided, that nothing within the provisions of this
act shall be so construed as to interfere with the selecting of juries at one reg
ular term of the court for the next regular term of the court. [75.]
§ 6. Proceedings, etc., at special term. The juries for any special term
shall be summoned in accordance with the law regulating juries at regular
terms of court, and at any special term all proceedings may be had in any
case which could be had at any regular term of such court, and all process
issued to a previous regular term or to such special term, and all orders, judg
ments and decrees, and all proceedings had in any case, criminal or civil, which
would be lawful if had at a regular term, shall have the same force and effect,
and any proceeding had may be appealed from under the same rules, regula
tions and limitations as provided for in appeals from regular terms of court.
§ 1129. Minutes read and signed, when. The minutes of the proceed
ings of each preceding day of the session shall be read in open court on the
morning of the succeeding day ; except on the last day of the session, on
which day they shall be read, and, if necessary, corrected and signed in open
court by the judge. [Act May 11, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 12; 1st Leg. p. 200;
P. D. 1415.]
§ 1130. Special judge shall sign minutes. When a special judge has
presided during the term, or a portion thereof, or in the tmal of a particular
case, he shall sign the minutes of such proceedings as were had before him.
§ 1131. Seal of district court. Each of the several district courts shall
be provided with a seal, having engraved thereon a star of five points, in the
center, and the words, " District Court of County, Texas," the impress of
which shall be attached to all process, except subpoenas, issued out of such
court, and shall be used to authenticate the official acts of the clerk. [Act
May 11, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 8; 1st Leg. 200; P. D. 1411.]
See art. 1118.
§ 1132. Scroll may be used for seal, when. When no such seal has
been provided for the court, the clerk may use a scroll until a seal can be pro
cured. [Act May 11, 1846; June 21, 1846, § 8; 1st Leg. p. 200; P. D. 1411.]
Akt. 1133. County judge, election and qualification of. There shall be
elected in each county by the qualified voters thereof, at each general election,
a county judge, who shall be well informed in the law of the state, who shall
hold his office for two years, and until his successor shall have duly qualified.
[Const, art. 5, § 15; art. 16, § 17; Act June 16, 1876, § 1; 15th Leg. p. 17.]
Akt. 1134. Bond and oath of county judge. The county judge shall, be
fore entering on the duties of his office, execute a bond with two or more
good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the commissioners' court of his
county, in a sum of not less than one thousand dollars nor more than five thou
sand dollars, the amount of said bond to be determined and fixed by the county
commissioners' court, payable to the treasurer of his county, conditioned that
he will pay over to the person or officer entitled to receive it, all monies that
may come into his hands as county judge, within thirty days after he shall
have received the same, and take the oath of office prescribed in the constitu
tion, and the further oath required of the several members of the commis
sioners' court. [April 9,1883; July 13, 1883: 18th Leg. p. 50 ; Const, art. 16,
§ 1; Act July 27, 1876, § 16; 15th Leg. p. 51; K. S. 1134.]
§ 1134a. Bond required of judges in office. The county judges now in
office in this state shall, within thirty days after this act takes effect, execute
bonds in accordance with the provisions of the first section of this act, and
upon the failure of the county judge of any county to execute such bond
within thirty days or before the next regular term of the commissioners' court
of such county, after the expiration of said thirty days it shall be the duty
of such court to declare the office of county judge vacant, and proceed at
once to fill such vacancy in the manner prescribed t>y law. [Act of April 9,
1883; July 13, 1883; 18th Leg. p. 50; Act June 16, 1876, §2; 15th Leg. p. 17.]
[Old Art. 1134. The county judge shall, before entering on the duties of his office, take the
oath of office prescribed in the constitution, and the further oath required of -the several mem
bers of the commissioners' court.] [Const, art. 16, § 1 ; Act July 27, 1876, § 16 ; 15th Leg. p. 51 ;
R. S. 1134.]
§ 1135. Office of judge — Absence from county, etc. The county judge
shall keep his office at the county seat of the county and shall attend at said
office from day to day. He shall not absent himself from the county or the
state without the permission of the commissioners' court, to be entered on the
minutes of the court, nor shall he so absent himself with such permission for
a longer period than ninety days. [Act of February 12, 1883; July 13, 1883;
18th Leg. p. 8; Act June 16, 1876, § 2; 15th Leg. p."l7.]
§ 1136. Judge may practice law, when. County judges, in those coun
ties wherein the civil or criminal jurisdiction of the county courts has been, or
may hereafter be, diminished, shall have the right to practice as attorneys in
all justices' and county courts, in cases wherein the courts over which they
f>reside have neither original nor appellate jurisdiction, provided they are
icensed lawyers. [Act of July 4, 1879; 16th Leg. S. S. 12.]
§ 1137. Tacancy in office of judge, filled how. Any vacancy in the
office of the county judge may be tilled by the commissioners' court of the
county in which such vacancy mav occur, until the next general election.
[Const, art. 5, § 2S; Act June i6, 1876, § l;15th Leg. p. 17; K. S. 1518. 1519.]
§ 1138. Disqualification of judge. No judge of the county court shall
sit in any case wherein he may be interested, or where he shall have been of
counsel, or where either of the parties may be connected with him by .affinity
or consanguinitv within the third degree. [Const, art. 5, § 11; Act June 16,
1876, § 6; 15th "Leg. p. 17.] See art. 1090. .
§ 260 ; Peters
v. Duke, 1 App. C. C. § 304. A judge who with others had signed a subscription contract for
the payment of money on certain conditions, the subscribers being severally bound, is compe
tent to trv a suit against another subscriber on the same instrument. Dicks v. Austin College,
1 App. C." C. § 1068.
§ 533. Collateral consanguinity is the relation subsisting among per
sons who descend from the same common ancestor, but not from each other. Lineal consan
guinity is that relationship which exists among persons where one is descended from the other,
in computing the degree of lineal consanguinity existing between two persons, every genera
tion in the direct course of relationship between the two parties makes a degree. Thus, broth
ers are related in the first degree. The mode of computing degrees of collateral consanguinity
is to begin with the common ancestors and reckon downwards, and the degree the two persons,
or the more remote of them, is distant from the ancestor, is the degree of kindred between
them. Thus, an uncle and nephew are related in the second degree. First cousins are related
by affinity in the second degree. lb.
§ 201.
§ 804 ; Grady v. Rogan, 2 App. C. C. S 260.
§ 1139. Transfer of causes, if judge interested. Whenever a judge
of the county court is disqualified to try any civil case pending in such court,
it shall be his duty, on motion of any party to the cause, or of his own motion,
by an order entered of record, to remove such cause to the district court of his
county, to be there tried. [Const, art. 5, § 16 ; June 16, 1876, § 6 ; 15th Leg. p. 17.]
§ 790.
§ 1140. Special judge elected, when. Should any county judge fail to ap
pear at the time appointed for holding the court, or should he during the term
be absent, or unable or unwilling to hold the court, a special county judge may
be elected in the same manner as is provided for the election of a special judge
of the district court in articles 1094 to 1097, inclusive, so far as applicable; and
the special county judge so elected shall have all the powers and authority of
the county judge while acting as such; and similar elections may be held from
time to time during the term to supply the absence, failure or inability of the
county judge or any special judge to perform the duties of the office. [Act June
16, 1876; 15th Leg. 17; Aug. 15, 1876; Nov. 19, 1876, § 1, 2; 15th Leg. p. 140.]
§ 707.
§ 1141. Record of election of special judge. When a special county
judge shall have been so elected, it shall be the duty of the clerk to enter
upon the minutes of the court a record, such as is provided for the district
court in article 1098 ; and such record shall have the force and effect provided
for the record of the district court in similar cases in article 1099.
§ 1142. Clerk, election and term of office. There shall be a clerk of
the county court for each county, who shall be elected at a general election for
members of the legislature by the qualified voters of such county, who shall
hold his office for two years, and until his successor shall have duly qualified.
[Const, art. 5, § 30; art. 16, § 17.]
§ 1143. Vacancy, filled how. "Whenever a vacancy may, from any cause,
occur in the office of clerk of the county court, the same shall be filled by the
commissioners' court of the county, and the clerk so appointed shall give bond
and qualify in the same manner as if he had been elected, and shall hold his
office until the next general election, and until his successor shall have duly
qualified. [Const, art. 5, § 20.]
§ 1144. Bond and oath. Each clerk of the county court shall, before
entering on the duties of his office, give bond with two or more good and suffi
cient sureties to be approved by the commissioners' court of the county pay
able to the governor and his successors in office, in a sum to be fixed by tfie
commissioners' court, not less than two thousand nor more than ten thousand
dollars, conditioned for the safe-keeping of the records, and the faithful dis
charge of the duties of his office, and snail also take and subscribe the oath of
office required by the constitution, which shall be indorsed upon the bond, and
the bond and oath so taken and approved shall be recorded in the county
clerk's office, and shall be deposited in the office of the clerk of the district
court.
Suit on bond. A certified copy of such bond may be put in suit in the name
of the governor for the use of the party injured, and shall not become void
on the recovery of part of the penalty thereof, but may be sued on from time
to time by the parties injured, until the whole amount of the penalty is re
covered. [Act May 25, 1876, § 2; 15th Leg. p. 10; P. D. 500.]
§ 1145. Deputies, appointment of. The clerk of the county court,
whether elected or appointed, shall have power to appoint one or more depu
ties by a written appointment under his hand and the seal of his court, whicli
appointment shall be recorded in the office of such clerk of the county court,
and shall be deposited in the office of the clerk of the district court. [Act
May 25, 1876, § 3; 15th Leg. p. 10.)
§ 11*6. Deputies, oath and powers of. Such deputies shall take the oath
of office prescribed by the constitution. They shall act in the name of their
principal, and may do and perform all such official acts as may be lawfully done
and performed by such clerk in person. [Act May 25, 1876, § 4; 15tn Leg.
p. 10.]
§ 1147. Office and residence of clerk. The several clerks of the county
court shall keep their offices at the county seat of their respective counties;
and when the clerk does not reside at such county seat he shall have a deputy
or deputies residing there. [Act May 25, 1876, § 4; 15th Leg. p. 10.1
§ 1148. Acknowledgment, etc., taken by clerk. The clerks of the county
court shall have power and it shall be their duty, when applied to for that
purpose, to take the separate acknowledgment of married women in all cases
where such acknowledgment is required or permitted by law to be taken, to
the execution of any deed or other instrument in writing, or conveyance exe
cuted by them, and to take the acknowledgment of all other persons to deeds
or other written instruments or conveyances, and to take proof by witnesses
of all such deeds, written instruments or conveyances, which are required or
permitted by law to be so acknowledged or proven for record; and it shall
also be their duty to record, in accordance with the registration laws now or
hereafter in force, all such deeds, mortgages, deeds of trust or any other in*
struments in writing, or judgments, which may be permitted or required by
law to be recorded. [Act May 25, 1876, § 5; 15th Leg. p. 10.]
§ 1149. Marriage license issued; oaths, etc., administered by clerk.
Such clerks shall also be authorized to issue all marriage licenses, to administer
all oaths and affirmations, and to take affidavits and depositions to be used as
provided by law in any of the courts. [Act May 25, 1876, § 6 ; 15th Leg. p. 10.]
§ 1150. Clerks of commissioners' courts. Such clerks shall be ex officio
clerks of the commissioners' courts of their respective counties, and it shall be
their duty to attend upon each term of said court, to issue all notices, writs
and other process required by said courts, to keep the records, books, papers
and proceedings of said courts, and see that the same are properly indexed,
arranged and preserved, and generally to do and perform such other duties as
are or may be imposed on them by law as clerks of such courts. [Act May
25, 1876, §1; 15th Leg. p. 10; Act July 22, 1876, § 8; 15th Leg. p. 51.]
§ 1151. Recorders of county, etc. They shall be ex officio recorders
for their several counties, and as such shall record in suitable books to be pro
cured for that purpose, all deeds, mortgages and other instruments required or
permitted by law to be recorded ; they shall be the keepers of such record
books, and shall keep the same properly indexed, arranged and preserved, and
shall do and perform such other duties as are or may be by law required of
them as recorders. [Act May 25, 1876, § 1; 15th Leg. p. 10.]
§ 1152. Keepers of records, etc. They shall be the keepers of the
records, books, papers and proceedings of their respective county courts in
civil and criminal cases and in matters of probate, and see that the same are
properly indexed, arranged and preserved, and shall do and perform such
other duties in that behalf as are or may be by law imposed on them. [Act
May 25, 1876, § 1, 15th Leg. p. 10.]
§ 1153. Duties of in respect to courts. The several clerks of the county
courts shall keep a fair record of all the acts done and proceedings had in their
respective courts; they shall enter all judgments of the court, under the direc
tion of the judge, and shall keep a record of all executions issued, and of the
returns thereon in record books to be kept for that purpose. [Act May 25,
1876, § 1; 15th Leg. p. 10; P. D. 504.]
§ 1154. Indexes kept by, how. It shall be the duty of the several
clerks of the county courts to provide and keep in their respective offices, as
part of the records thereof, full and complete alphabetical indexes of the
names of the parties to all suits filed in their said courts, which indexes shall
be kept in well-bound books, and shall state in full the names of all the par
ties to such suits, which shall be indexed and cross-indexed so as to show the
name of each party under the proper letter ; and a reference shall be made
opposite each name to the page of the minute book upon which is entered the
judgment in each case. [Act June 21, 1876; Nov. 19, 1876, § 1; 15th Leg.
p. 25.]
§ 1155. Dockets, etc., to be kept. They shall also keep such other
dockets, books and indexes as are or may be required by law.
§ 1156. Reports of jury fees and fines. In addition to the reports reJuired of the clerk of the county court under the several provisions of the
Jode of Criminal Procedure, it shall be his duty, on the last day of each term
of the county court, to make out a statement in writing, which shall set forth
all monies received by him for jury fees and fines, with the names of the par
ties from whom received up to the date of such statement, and since his pre
vious statement, if anv such has been made ; and also the name of each juror
who has served at such term, the number of days he served, and the amount
due him for such service, which statement shall be examined by the judge
holding such court, and, if found to be correct, shall be approved and signed
by him. Should said judge consider said statement erroneous, he may make
such corrections therein as he may deem necessary, and shall then approve
and sign the same ; which statement, when so approved and signed, shall be
recorded in the minutes of the court. [Act June 16, 1876, § 24; 15th Leg.
P- 17-]
§ 1157. Jury fees and fines, to whom paid. It shall be the duty of the
clerk to pay over to the county treasurer all jury fees and fines received by
him to the use of the county.
Akt. 1158. Duty of on vacating office. Whenever a clerk of the county
court shall vacate his office, he shall transfer to his successor all the records,
books and papers of the office.
§ 1159. Single clerk elected, when. In counties having a population
of less than eight thousand persons, only one clerk shall be elected, who shall
take the oath and give the bond required of clerks both of the district and
county court, and who shall have all the powers and perform all che duties of
such clerks, respectively. [Coqst. art. 5, § 20.]
See arts. 1116, 1116a.
Abt. 1160. Seal of county clerk. Where in any county a single clerk shall
have been elected as provided in the preceding article, he shall, in performing
the duties of clerk of the county court, use the seal of said court and authen
ticate his official acts as clerk of such county court.
§ 1161. Exclusive jurisdiction of county court. The county court
shall have exclusive original jurisdiction in civil cases when the matter in con
troversy shall exceed in value two hundred dollars, and shall not exceed five
hundred dollars, exclusive of interest. [Const, art. 5, § 16 ; Act Aug. 18, 1876,
§3; 15th Leg. p. 172.]
§ 12. Also see 67 T. 654.
§ 1162. Concurrent jurisdiction of county court. The county court
shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the district court when the matter in
-controversy shall exceed five hundred and not exceed one thousand dollars.
§ 16; Act Aug. 18, 1876, § 3; 15th Leg. p. 172.]
§ 1163. Forfeited bonds in criminal eases. The county court shall also
have jurisdiction to enter final judgment on all forfeited bonds taken in crim
inal cases pending in said court. [Act Aug. 18, 1876, § 3; 15th Leg. p. 172.]
§ 116-1. Jurisdiction denied, when. The county court shall not have
jurisdiction of any suit to recover damages for slander or defamation of char
acter, nor of suits for the recovery of lands, nor of suits for the enforcement of
liens upon land, nor of suits in behalf of the state for escheats, nor of suits for
divorce, nor of suits for the forfeiture of the charters of incorporations and in
corporated companies, nor of suits for the trial of the right of property levied
on by virtue of any writ of execution, sequestration or attachment, when the
property levied on shall be equal to or exceed in value five hundred dollars.
|Const. art. 5, §< 8-16; Act Aug. 1876, § 3; 15th Leg. p. 172.]
§ 433.
§ 541 ; Haney v. Millikin, 2 App. C. C. § 223) ;
or to impose an easement on land (Gascamp v. Drews, 2 App. C. C. § 95; Scripture v. Kent, 1
App. C. 0. § 1057); but it has of suits to recover damages for injury done to land, as by the
construction of a railway along a street (G. C. & S. F. R'y Co. v. Thompson, 2 App. C. C. g 568;
G. C. & S. F. R'y Co. v. Graves, 1 App. C. C. g 579) : or breaking into a close and cutting timber,
etc. (Brown v. Brown, 3 App. C. C. § 82); or removing lumber from a lot on which the owner
was about to build. Hatch v. Allen, 3 App. C. C. g 299.
§ 1165. Appellate jurisdiction of county court. The county court shall
have appellate jurisdiction in civil cases over which the justices' courts haveoriginal
jurisdiction, when the judgment of the court appealed from or the
amount in controversy shall exceed twentv dollars, exclusive of costs. [Const.
§ 5, § 16; Act Aug" IS, 1876, § 3; loth'Leg. p. 172.]
§ 1166. Certiorari to justices' courts. The county court shall also have
power to hear and determine cases brought up from the justices' courts by
certiorari under the provisions of the title relating thereto.
§ 1167. Motions against sheriffs and other officers. The county court
shall also have power to hear and determine all motions against sheriffs and
other officers of the court for failure to pay over monies collected under the
process of said court or other defalcation of duty in connection with such pro
cess. [Act June 16, 1876, § 26 ; 15th Leg. p. 17.]
§ 1168. Contempts may be punished. The county court shall alsp have
power to punish by fine not exceeding one hundred dollars, and by imprison
ment not exceeding three davs, any person guilty of contempt of such court.
[Act May 11, 1S46, § 6; 1st Leg. p. 200; P. D. 1409.]
§ 1169. Law and equity powers. Subject to the limitation stated in this chapter, the county court is authorized to hear and determine any cause which
is or may be cognizable by courts, either of law or equity, and to grant any
relief which could be granted by said courts or either of them. [Act May 11.
1846, § 7; 1st Leg. p. 200; P. D. 1410.]
Aet. 1170. Remedial writs may be granted. The county judge shall have
authority, either in term time or in vacation, to grant writs of mandamus, in
junction, sequestration, attachment, garnishment, certiorari and supersedeas,
and all other writs necessary to the enforcement of the jurisdiction of the
court. [Const, art. 5, § 16; Act June 16, 1876, § 5; 15th Leg. p. 17.]
§ 1209.
§ 15.
§ 95.
Aet. 1171. Attorney may be appointed, when. The county judge shall
also have power to appoint counsel to attend to the cause of any party who
mav make affidavit that he is too poor to employ counsel to attend to the same.
[Act May 11, 1846, § 11; loth Leg. p. 200.]
Aet. 1172. Additional powers, exercised when. In addition to the fore
going powers and jurisdiction, the county court and the county judge shall
have such authority as is or may be vested in them by law.
Aet. 1172a. Jurisdiction as to eminent domain conferred upon the county
courts — the jurisdiction of which is diminished. All county courts whose
civil jurisdiction has been heretofore or may hereafter be diminished by law.
to such extent as to no longer be able to exercise jurisdiction in matters of
eminent domain, shall, in addition to the powers and jurisdiction now lawfully
exercised by them, be clothed with full jurisdiction in and over all matters
of eminent domain over which the county courts have jurisdiction by the gen
eral laws of this state. [Act March 31/1885; 19th Leg. p. 77.]
§ 308: G. H. & S. A. R. R. Co. v. Mud Creek,
Lu A. & M. Co. 1 App. C. C. g 393; T. T. Co. v. Forke, 2 App. C. C. §3 365-368.
Aet. 11725. Jurisdiction of county and district courts of Leon county.
§ 1. The county court of Leon county shall have and exercise the general
jurisdiction of a probate court, shall probate wills, appoint guardians of
minors, idiots, lunatics, persons non compos mentis and common drunkards;
grant letters testamentary and of administration, settle accounts of executors,
administrators and guardians, transact all business appertaining to the estates
of deceased persons, minors, idiots, lunatics, persons non compos mentis and
common drunkards, including the settlement, partition and distribution of
estates of deceased persons, and to apprentice minors as provided by law, and
to issue all writs necessary to the enforcement of their said jurisdiction; to
Eunish contempts under such provisions as are or may be provided by general
lw governing county courts throughout the state; but said county court of
Leon county shall have no other jurisdiction, civil or criminal.
§ 2. The district court of said Leon county shall have and exercise juris
diction in all matters and causes, civil and criminal, over which, by the general
laws of the state, the county court of said county would have jurisdiction, ex
cept as provided in section one (1) of this act, and that all cases other than
probate matters, and such as are provided in section one (1) of this act, be and
the same are hereby transferred to the district court of said Leon county, and
all writs and process, civil and criminal, heretofore issued by or out of said
county court of Leon county, other than those pertaining to matters over
which*, by section one (1) of this act, jurisdiction is given to said county court
of said county, be and the same are hereby made returnable to the next term
of the said district court of Leon county.
§ 3. The county clerk of Leon county be and he is hereby required, within
twenty days after the passage of this act, to make a fair and complete tran
script of all the entries on his dockets, civil and criminal, theretofore made in
causes which by section two (2) of this act are transferred to the district court
of said county, and deliver the same to the district clerk of said county, and
all such cases shall immediately be docketed by said clerk, and such civil causes
so transferred shall stand on the docket of said court as appearance cases for
the next succeeding term of said court.
§ 4. All laws and parts of laws in conflict with the provisions of this act
be and the same are hereby repealed.
The above four sections are act of February 6, 1879 ; 16th Leg. p. 5. Repealed. See art. 11721
Aet. 1172c. Jurisdiction of county and district courts of Polk and other
counties.
§ 1. The county courts of the counties of Polk, Jasper, Newton, Brazoria,
Brown, Camp, Chambers, Coleman, Concho, Coryell, Crockett, El Paso, Frank
lin, Hamilton, Hardin, Jefferson, Liberty, Llano, Marion, Matagorda, McCulloch,
Morris, Nacogdoches, Pecos, Presidio, Sabine, San Augustine, San
Jacinto, San Saba, Shelby, Titus, Tom Green, Trinity, Tyler and Orange shall
have and exercise the general jurisdiction of probate courts, shall probate
wills, appoint guardians of minors, idiots, lunatics, persons non compos mentis
and common drunkards, grant letters testamentary and of administration ;
settle accounts of executors, administrators and guardians ; transact all business
appertaining to the estates of deceased persons, minors, idiots, lunatics, per
sons non compos mentis and common drunkards, including the partition, settle
ment and distribution of estates of deceased persons, andto apprentice minors
as prescribed by law, and to issue all writs necessary to the enforcement of
their jurisdiction, and to punish contempts under such provisions as are or
may be provided by general law governing county courts throughout the state;
but said county courts shall have no other jurisdiction, civil or criminal.
§ 2. The district courts of said counties shall have and exercise jurisdiction
in all matters and causes, civil and criminal, over which, by the general laws
of the state, the county courts of said counties would have jurisdiction, except
as provided in section one of this act, and all cases other than probate mat
ters, and such as are provided in section one of this act, be and the same are
hereby transferred to the district courts of said counties, and all writs and
process, civil and criminal, heretofore issued by or out of said county courts
other than those pertaining to matters over which, by section 1 of this act,
jurisdiction is given to the county courts of said counties, be and the same
are hereby made returnable to the next term of the district court in and for
said counties.
§ 3. The clerks of the county courts of the counties aforesaid be and they
are hereby required, within twenty days after the passage of this act, to make a
fair and complete transcript of all the entries on their dockets, civil and crim
inal, theretofore made in causes which, by section one (two) of this act, are trans
ferred to the district courts of said counties, and file the same, together with
the original papers of all said causes and proceedings, with the clerk of the
district court of their respective counties ; and all such cases shall immediately
be docketed by the clerk of the district court of said counties respectively,
and shall stand on the docket of said court as appearance cases for the next
term of said court ; and for each of such transcripts, the county clerks afore
said shall receive twenty cents per one hundred words and fifty cents for a
certificate thereto, to be taxed as costs against the party cast in the suit, if a
civil suit, and if criminal, against the defendant it convicted ; provided, that
the change of the criminal jurisdiction provided for in this act shall not apply
to Marion county.
§ 4. All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act be and the same are
hereby repealed.
§ 1172<7. Jnrisdiction of county and district courts of Trinity county.
§ 1. The county court of Trinity county shall have and exercise the general
jurisdiction of a probate court ; shall probate wills, appoint guardians of minors,
idiots, lunatics, persons non compos mentis and common drunkards; grant
letters testamentary and of administration ; settle accounts of executors, admin
istrators and guardians ; transact all business appertaining to the estates of
deceased persons, minors, idiots, lunatics, persons non compos mentis and com
mon drunkards, including the partition, distribution and settlement of estates
of deceased persons; to apprentice minors, as prescribed by law; and to issue
all writs necessary to the enforcement of the jurisdiction herein granted, and
to punish contempts under such provisions as are or may be provided by gen
eral law governing county courts; but said county court shall have no other
jurisdiction, civil or criminal.
§ 2. The district court of Trinity county shall have and exercise jurisdiction
in all matters and causes, civil ana criminal, which by the general laws of this
state the county court of said county would have jurisdiction over, except as
provided in section one of this act ; and all causes and proceedings other than
probate matters, and such as are provided in section one of this act, are hereby
transferred to the district court of said county ; and all writs and process, civil
and criminal, heretofore issued by or out of said county court, other than those
pertaining to matters over which, by section one of this act, jurisdiction is con
ferred on said county court, are hereby made .returnable to the next term of
the said district court, and shall be as valid as if issued by or out of said dis
trict court.
§ 3. The clerk of the county court of Trinity county is hereby required,
within twenty days after the passage of this act, to make a full and complete
transcript of all the entries on the civil and criminal dockets of said county
court theretofore made in causes and proceedings which, by section 2 of this
act, are transferred to the district court of said county, and file said transcripts,
together with the original papers of all said causes and proceedings, with the
clerk of the district court of said county, and for each of such transcripts said
county clerk shall receive twenty cents per hundred words, and fifty cents for
certificate thereto, to be paid as costs by the party cast in the suit, if a civil
proceeding, and by the defendants if convicted in a criminal case. And all
such causes and proceedings transferred by this act to said district court shall
stand on the docket of said court as appearance cases for the next term of said
court.
§ 4. All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
Above four sections are act of April 5, 1879; 16th Leg. 77. See 1172c.
§ 1172<g. Jurisdiction of county and district courts of Navarro county.
§ 1. The county court of Navarro county shall have and exercise the gen
eral jurisdiction of a probate court; shall probate wills, appoint guardians of
minors, idiots, lunatics, persons non compos mentis and common drunkards,
grant letters testamentary and of administration, settle accounts of executors,
administrators and guardians, transact all business appertaining to the estates
of deceased persons, minors, idiots, lunatics, persons non compos mentis and
common drunkards, including the settlement, partition and distribution or'
estates of deceased persons, and to apprentice minors as provided by law, ana
to issue all writs necessary to the enforcement of said jurisdiction, to punu.i
contempts under such provisions as are or may be provided by general la i
governing county courts throughout the state; but said county court or
Navarro county shall have no other civil jurisdiction whatsoever.
§ 2. Said county court shall have and exercise such jurisdiction over and
pertaining to criminal matters and proceedings as by general laws of this state
is conferred upon county courts.
§ 3. The district court of said Navarro county shall have and exercise juris
diction in all civil matters and causes over which, by the general laws of this
state, the county court of said county would have jurisdiction, except as pro
vided in section one of this act ; and all causes other than probate mat
ters, and such as are provided by sections one and two of this act, be and the
same are hereby transferred to the district court of said Navarro county, and
all writs and process relating to civil matters heretofore issued by or out of
said county court of Navarro county, other than those pertaining to matters
over which, by section one of this act, jurisdiction is given to said county court
of said county, be and the same are hereby made returnable to the next term
of the said district court of Navarro county.
§ 4. The county clerk of said Navarro county be and he is hereby required,
within twenty days after the passage of this act, to make a fair and complete
transcript of all entries upon his civil dockets heretofore made in causes which
by section three of this act are transferred to the district court of said county,
and deliver the same to the district clerk of said county, together with all
papers to such causes pertaining, and all such cases shall immediately be dock
eted by said district clerk, and such civil cases so transferred shall stand on
the docket of said court as appearance cases for the next succeeding term of
said court.
§ 5. This act shall not be construed to in any manner affect judgments here
tofore rendered by said county court of Navarro county, pertaining to mat
ters and causes which by section three of this act are transferred to the district
court of said county, but the county clerk of said county shall issue all execu
tions and orders of sale as the judgments in such cases require, and such exe
cutions and orders of sale and the proceedings thereunder shall be as valid
and binding to all intents and purposes as though no change had been made,
as by section three of this act is contemplated.
§ 6. All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act be and they are
hereby repealed.
Above six sections are act of July 2, 1879. 16th Leg. S. S. 7. Repealed, 1172i.
Akt. 1172/. Jurisdiction of county and district courts of Erath and
other counties.
§ 1. The county courts of Erath, Comanche, Eastland, Red River, Palo
Pinto, Stephens, Throckmorton, Taylor, Callahan, Panola, Cass and Bowie
counties shall have and exercise the general jurisdiction of probate courts,
shall probate wills, appoint guardians of minors, idiots, lunatics, persons non.
compos mentis and common drunkards, grant letters testamentary and of ad
ministration, settle accounts of executors, administrators and guardians, trans
act all business appertaining to the estates of deceased persons, minors, idiots,
lunatics, persons non compos mentis and common drunkards, including the par
tition, settlement and distribution of estates of deceased persons, and to ap
prentice minors as prescribed by law, and to issue all writs necessary to the
enforcement of their jurisdiction, and to punish contempts under such provis
ions as are or may be provided by general law governing county courts
throughout the state ; but said county courts shall have no other jurisdiction,
civil or criminal.
§ 2. The district courts of said counties shall have and exercise jurisdiction
in all matters and causes, civil and criminal, over which by the general laws of
the state the county courts of said counties would have jurisdiction except as
provided in section one of this act, and all cases other than probate matters,
and such as are provided in section one of this act, be and the same are hereby
transferred to the district courts of said counties, and all writs and process,
civil and criminal, heretofore issued by or out of said county courts, other than
those pertaining to matters over which, by section one of this act, jurisdiction is
given to the county courts of said counties, be and the same are hereby made
returnable to the next term of the district courts in and for said counties.
§ 3. The clerks of the county courts of the counties aforesaid be and they
are hereby required, within twenty days after the passage of this act, to make
a full and complete transcript of all the entries on their dockets, civil and
criminal, heretofore made in causes which by section two of this act are trans
ferred to the district courts of said counties, and file the same, together with
all original papers of all said causes and proceedings, with the clerks of the
district courts of said counties; and all such causes shall be immediately
docketed by the clerks of the district courts of said counties, and shall stand
on the dockets of said courts as appearance causes for the next term of said
courts ; and for each of said transcripts the county clerk shall receive twenty
cents per one hundred words, and fifty cents for certificate thereto, to be taxed
as cost against the party cast in the suit, if a civil suit, and if criminal, against
the defendant, if convicted; provided, the change of civil jurisdiction provided
for in this act shall not apply to Red River county.
§ 4. All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act be and the same are
bereby repealed.
Above four sections are act of July 8, 1879; 16th Leg. S. S. 21. Repealed as to Bowie, Callabaii,
Eastland, Palo Pinto, Stephens and Taylor, 11721. Repealed as to Red River, 1172». Re
pealed as to Comanche, 1172j>. Repealed as to Erath, 1172a;.
§ 1172^. Amendment of section 1 of act of March 27, 1879.
§ 1. The county courts of the counties of Polk, Jasper, Newton, Blanco,
Brown, Camp, Chambers, Coleman, Concho, Coryell, Crockett, El Paso, Frank
lin, Hamilton, Hardin, Jefferson, Liberty, Llano, Marion, Matagorda, McCulloch,
Morris, Nacogdoches, Pecos, Presidio, Sabine, San Augustine, San Jacinto,
San Saba, Shelby, Titus, Tom Green, Trinity, Tyler, Orange and Angelina
shall have and exercise the general jurisdiction of probate courts; shau pro
bate wills, appoint guardians of minors, idiots, lunatics, persons non compos
mentis and common drunkards ; grant letters testamentary and of administra
tion; settle accounts of executors, administrators and guardians; transact all
business appertaining to the estates of deceased persons, minors, idiots, lunatics,
persons nan compos mentis and common drunkards, including the partition,
settlement and distribution of estates of deceased persons, and to apprentice
minors, as prescribed by law; and to issue all writs necessary to the enforce
ment of their jurisdiction, and to punish contempts under such provisions as
are, or may be, provided by general law governing county courts throughout
the state, and to have and exercise general jurisdiction over questions of emi
nent domain, as prescribed by law ; but said county courts shall have no other
jurisdiction, civil or criminal; provided, that this act shall not confer greater
jurisdiction upon the county court of Shelby county than is already exercised
by said court under the provisions of the act approved March 27, 1879, of
which this act is amendatory.
Act of February 9, 1881 ; 17th Leg. 3. See ante, 1172c. Repealed as to Brown, Camp, Cole
man, Matagorda, Morris, 11724*. As to Henderson, 1172it. Repealed as to Pecos, Tom Green,
Presidio, 1172/rc. As to Titus, 1172s. Repealed as to Burnett, 1172t. Repealed as to Llano,
11721;. Repealed as to Orange, 1172to. Repealed as to Concho and Tyler, 1172x.
§ 1172A. Jurisdiction of the county, district and justices' courts of
Henderson and other counties.*
§ 1. The county courts of Henderson, Parker, Lampasas, Blanco, Bexar,
Kimble, Nueces, Gillespie, Kendall, Uvalde, Wheeler, Oldham, Bandera, Whar
ton, McMullen, Medina, Frio, Dimmitt, La Salle, Hidalgo, Starr,*Zapata, Duval
and Burnet counties shall have and exercise the general jurisdiction of pro
bate courts ; shall probate wills, appoint guardians of minors, idiots, lunatics,
persons non compos \mentis\ and common drunkards ; grant letters testament
ary and of administration; settle accounts of executors, administrators and
guardians ; transact all business appertaining to the estates of deceased per
sons, minors, idiots, lunatics, persons non compos Tnentis and common drunk
ards, including the partition, distribution and settlement of estates of deceased
persons; and to apprentice minors as required by law; and all matters of emi
nent domain, over which the county courts have jurisdiction by the general
laws of this state, and to punish contempt under such provisions as are or may
be provided by general law governing county courts throughout the state;
but said county courts shall have no other jurisdiction, civil or criminal.
§ 2. The district courts of said counties shall have and exercise jurisdiction
in all matters and causes, civil and criminal, over which, by the general laws
of the state, the county courts of said counties would have jurisdiction, except
as provided in section one of this act, and except all causes and matters, civil
and criminal, over which, by the general laws of the state, the justices' courts
of said counties would have jurisdiction ; and that all cases other than probate
matters, and such as are provided in sections one and three of this act, be and
the same are hereby transferred to the district courts of said counties ; and
writs and processes, civil and criminal, heretofore issued by or out of said
county courts, other than those pertaining to matters over which, by sections
one and three of this act, jurisdiction is given to the county courts and justices'
courts of said counties, be and the same are hereby made returnable to the
next term of the district courts of said counties.
§ 3. The justices' courts of said counties, precinct No. 1, shall have and ex
ercise jurisdiction in all matters and causes, civil and criminal, over which, by
the general laws of the state, the county courts of said counties would have
jurisdiction ; provided, that by this section no more jurisdiction shall be con
ferred on said courts than is given by the general laws of the state, and that
all cases over which the justices' courts have jurisdiction by the general laws
of the state be, and the same are hereby, transferred to the justices' courts,
precinct No. 1, of Henderson, Parker, Lampasas, Blanco, Bexar, Kimble,
Nueces, Gillespie, Kendall, Uvalde, "Wheeler, Oldham, Bandera, Wharton,
McMullen, Medina, Frio, Dimmitt, La Salle, Hidalgo, Starr, Zapata, Duval and
Burnet counties, and all writs and processes, civil and criminal, heretofore
issued by or out of said county courts, other than those pertaining to matters
over which, by sections one and two of this act, jurisdiction is given to the
county and district courts of said counties, be, and the same are hereby, made
returnable to the next succeeding justices' courts of said precincts No. 1 that
convene after this act takes effect.
§ 4. The clerks of the county courts of Henderson, Parker, Lampasas,
Blanco, Bexar, Kimble, Nueces, Gillespie, Kendall, Uvalde, Wheeler, Oldham,
Bandera, Wharton, McMullen, Medina, Frio, Dimmitt, La Salle, Hidalgo, Starr,
Zapata, Duval and Burnet counties be and they are hereby required, immedi
ately after the passage of this act, to make full and complete transcripts of
all the entries on their dockets, civil and criminal, heretofore made in causes
which, by sections two and three, are transferred to the district and justices'
courts of said counties, and file the same, together with all original papers of
all of said causes and proceedings, with the clerk of the district court of said
counties, and justices of the peace for precinct No. 1 in said counties, which
includes all judgments, both civil and criminal, that remain uncollected and
not satisfied ; and, for the purpose of carrying into effect fully this act, the
court having jurisdiction of the subject-matter shall have full and ample
power to enforce the same by issuing execution or other process required by
law, and all of such causes under this act transferred to the district courts
shall be immediately docketed by the clerk of said court, and shall stand on
the dockets of said courts as appearance cases for the next term of said courts ;
and all of such causes transferred to the justices' courts shall be filed at once
by the justice of the peace thereof, which shall stand for trial at the next term
of said courts ; and lor each of said transcripts the county clerk shall receive
twenty cents per hundred words, and fifty cents for certificate thereto, to be
taxed against the party cast in the suit, if a civil suit, and, if criminal, against
the defendant, if convicted.
§ 1172i. Jurisdiction restored to county court ol Navarro county.
§ 1. An act entitled " An act to diminish the civil jurisdiction of the county
court of Navarro county, and to conform the jurisdiction of the district court
of said county to such change," approved July 2, A. D. 1879, be and the same
is hereby repealed.
§ 2. Said county court be and the same is hereby reinvested with the juris
diction, criminal and civil, which it had and exercised prior to the passage of
said act diminishing the jurisdiction of said court.
§ 3. All causes now pending in the district court of said county of Navarro
over which the county court of that county would have jurisdiction under the
constitution shall be transferred to said county court, and all causes now pend
ing in said district court over which said district and county courts have con
current jurisdiction shall, upon the written motion of either party thereto,
filed with the clerk of said district court, be transferred to said county court,
and all causes so transferred shall be docketed in said county court and stand
for trial as appearance causes in that court.
§ 4. The district clerk of said county of Navarro be and he is hereby re
quired, within twenty days after the passage of this act, to make a full and
complete transcript of all entries made upon the dockets of said district court
in all causes which will be by section three of this act transferred from said
court, and shall deliver the same and all the papers of each cause to the clerk
of said county court.
Above four sections are act of March 12, 1881 ; 17th Leg. 38. See, also, 1172e.
§ 1172/. Jurisdiction of county and district courts of Grimes, Mont
gomery and Karnes counties.
§ 1. The county courts of the counties of Grimes, Montgomery and Karnes
shall have and exercise the general jurisdiction of probate courts, shall probate
wills, appoint guardians of minors, idiots, lunatics, persons non compos mentis
and common drunkards; grant letters of testimony (testamentary) and of
administration; settle accounts of executors, administrators and guardians;
transact all business appertaining to the estates of deceased persons, minors,
idiots, lunatics, persons non compos mentis and common drunkards, including
the partition, settlement and distribution of estates of deceased persons, and
to apprentice minors, as prescribed by law ; and to issue all writs necessary
to the enforcement of their jurisdiction, and to punish contempts under such
provisions as are or may be provided by general law governing county
courts throughout the state ; but said county court shall have no othev juris
diction, civil or criminal.
§ 2. The district courts of said counties of Grimes, Montgomery and Karnes
shall have and exercise jurisdiction in all matters and causes, civil and crim
inal, over which by the general laws of the state the county courts of said coun
ties would have jurisdiction, except as provided in section 1 of this act; and
that in all cases other than probate matters, and such as are provided in sec
tion 1 of this act, be and the same are hereby transferred to the district courts
of said counties; and all writs and process, civil and criminal, heretofore
issued by or out of said county courts, other than those pertaining to matters
over which by section one (1) of this act jurisdiction is given to the county
courts of said counties, be and the same are made returnable to the next term
of the district courts in and for said counties.
§ 3. The clerk of the county courts of Grimes, Montgomery and Karnes
counties be and he is hereby required, within twenty days after the passage of
this act, to make a fair and complete transcript of all the entries on the docket
of said county courts, civil and criminal, theretofore made in causes which by
§ion (2) two of this act are transferred to the district courts of said coun
ties, and file the same, together with the original papers of all said causes and
proceedings, with the clerks of the district courts of said counties; and all
such cases shall immediately be docketed by the clerks of the district courts
of said counties, and shall stand on the dockets of said district courts as ap
pearance cases for the next term of said courts; and for each of said tran
scripts the county clerks shall receive twenty cents per hundred words,
and fifty cents for a certificate thereto, to be taxed as costs against the party
cast in the suit, if a civil suit, and if a criminal cause, against the defendant,
if convicted.
§ 4. All laws and parts of laws in conflict with the provisions of this act be
and the same are hereby repealed.
Above four sections are act of March 15, 1881 ; 17th Leg. 83. Repealed as to Grimes, 1172*.
Repealed as to Montgomery, 1172k
§ 1172*. Jurisdiction of county and district courts of Bosque and San
Patricio counties.
§ 1. The county court of the counties of Bosque and San Patricio shall have
and exercise the general jurisdiction of a probate court; shall probate wills,
appoint guardians of minors, idiots, lunatics, persons non compos mentis and
common drunkards ; grant letters of administration, settle accounts of execu
tors, administrators and guardians ; transact all business appertaining to the
estates of deceased persons, minors, idiots, lunatics, persons non compos mentis
and common drunkards, including the partition, settlement and distribution
of estates of deceased persons, and to apprentice minors as prescribed by law,
and to issue all writs necessary to the enforcement of its jurisdiction, and" to
{mnish contempts under such provisions as are or may be provided bv general
aw governing county courts throughout the state, and to have and exercise
feneral jurisdiction over questions of eminent domain, as prescribed by law;
ut said county courts shall have no other civil jurisdiction.
§ 2. The district courts of said counties of Bosque and San Patricio shall
have and exercise jurisdiction in all matters and causes of a civil nature, over
which, by the general laws of the state, the county courts of said counties would
have jurisdiction, except as provided in section one of this act; and in all
cases other than probate matters, and such as are provided in section one of this
act, be and the same are hereby transferred to the district courts of said coun
ties ; and all writs and process in civil causes heretofore issued by or out of said
county courts, other than those pertaining to civil matters, over which, by
§ion one of this act, jurisdiction is given to the county courts of said counties,
be and the same are hereby made returnable to the next term of the district
courts in and for said counties.
§ 3. The clerks of the county court of the said counties respectively of Bosque
and San Patricio be and they are hereby required, within twenty days after
the passage of this act, to make a fair and complete transcript of all the entries
on their civil dockets heretofore made in causes which, by section two of this act,
are transferred to the district courts of said counties respectively, and file the
same, together with the original papers of all said causes and proceedings,
with the clerks of the district court respectively of said Bosque and San Patri
cio counties, and all such causes shall be immediately docketed by the clerk
of the district court respectively of said Bosque and San Patricio counties, and
shall stand on the dockets of said courts ; and for each of said transcripts the
county clerks aforesaid shall receive twenty cents per one hundred words, and
fifty cents for a certificate thereto, to be taxed as costs against the party cast
in the suit.
§ 4. All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act be and same are
hereby repealed.
Above four sections are act of March 26, 1881 ; 17th Leg. 64. As to San Patricio, see 1172o.
§ Will. Jurisdiction restored to county courts of Palo Pinto and
other counties.
§ 1. The county courts of Palo Pinto, Eastland, Stephens, Callahan, Taylor,
Brazoria, Matagorda, Coleman, Bowie, Brown, Morris and Camp counties shall
hereafter have exclusive original jurisdiction in civil cases, when the matter in
controversy shall exceed in value two hundred dollars and shall not exceed
' five hundred dollars, exclusive of interest, and shall have concurrent jurisdic
tion with the district courts of said counties when the matter in controversy
shall exceed five hundred and not exceed one thousand dollars.
§ 2. Said county courts shall have appellate jurisdiction in civil cas; 3 over
which the justices' courts have original jurisdiction, when the judgment of the
court appealed from or the amount in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars,
exclusive of costs ; and said county courts shall also have power to hear and
determine cases brought up from the justices' courts by certiorari, under the
provisions of the title of the Revised Civil Statutes relating thereto.
§ 3. The county judges of said counties shall have authority, either in term
time or in vacation, to grant writs of mandarmts, injunction, sequestration,
attachment, garnishment, certiorari and supersededs, and all other writs nec
essary to the enforcement of the jurisdiction of said courts, and shall also
have power to issue writs of habeas corpus in all cases in which the constitu
tion has not conferred the power on the district courts or judges thereof.
§ 4. Said county courts shall have jurisdiction in the forfeiture and judgment
of all bonds and recognizances taken in criminal cases, of which criminal cases
said courts have jurisdiction.
§ 5. Said county courts shall have exclusive original jurisdiction of all mis
demeanors, except misdemeanors involving official misconduct, and except
cases in which the highest penalty of fine that may be imposed under the law
may not exceed two hundred dollars ; and said courts shall also have appellate
jurisdiction in criminal cases of which justices of the peace and other inferioi
tribunals of said counties have original jurisdiction.
§ 6. The district courts of said counties of Palo Pinto, Eastland, Stephens,
Callahan, Taylor, Brazoria, Matagorda, Coleman, Bowie, Brown, Morris and
Camp shall no longer have jurisdiction of cases of which the county courts of
said counties, by the provisions of this act, have exclusive original or appellate
jurisdiction ; and it shall be the duty of the district clerks of said counties,
within twenty days after the passage of this act, to make a full and complete
transcript of all orders on their respective dockets in cases now pending be
fore said district courts, of which cases, by the terms of this act, exclusive
jurisdiction is given to the county courts, and to deliver said transcripts,
together with the original papers, and a certified bill of costs in each case, to
the county clerks of their respective counties, and said county clerks shall
enter said cases on their respective dockets for trial by said county courts.
§ 7. The county courts of said counties shall hereafter hold their regular
terms for civil and criminal business as provided in the constitution and gen
eral laws of the state, and all process heretofore issued from the district courts
of said counties, in cases to be transferred under this act to the county courts,
shall be returnable to the first term of the proper county court, and all civil
cases so transferred shall be entered as appearance causes upon the dockets of
the respective county courts.
Above seven sections are act of March 80, 1881 ; 17th Leg. 74. See 1172c, f,g. As to Camp
and Matagorda, 1172o.
§ 1172m. Jurisdiction of county and district court of Morris county.
§ 1. The county court of the county of Morris shall have and exercise general
jurisdiction of probate courts, to probate wills, to appoint guardians for
minors, idiots, lunatics, persons nan compos mentis and common drunkards, to
grant letters testamentary and of administration, to settle accounts of execu
tors, administrators and guardians, and to transact all business appertaining to
the estates of deceased persons, minors, idiots, lunatics, persons non compos
mentis and common drunkards, including the partition, settlement and dis
tribution of the estates of deceased persons, and to apprentice minors as pre
scribed by law, and to issue all writs and process necessary to the enforcement
of their jurisdiction, and to punish contempts under such provisions as are, or
may be, provided by law throughout the state.
§ 2. Said county court shall have original jurisdiction over all misdemeanors,
except those involving official misconduct, and said court shall also have ap
pellate jurisdiction in criminal cases of which justices of the peace and other
inferior tribunals of said county have original jurisdiction.
§ 3. Said county court shall have jurisdiction in the judgment and for
feiture of all bonds and recognizances taken in criminal cases, of which
cases said court has jurisdiction.
§ 4. The county judge of said county shall have authority, either in term
time or in vacation, to grant writs of certiorari, mandamus and all other writs
and process necessary to the enforcement of the jurisdiction of said court, and
shall also have power to issue writs of habeas corpus in all cases in which the con
stitution has not conferred the power on the district court or the judge thereof.
§ 5. The district court of said county shall have jurisdiction in all civil mat
ters and cases over which the county court of said county has jurisdiction
under the general laws of this state, except as otherwise provided in this act,
and all such cases are hereby transferred to the district court of said county,
and all writs and processes issued out of the county court in said cases shall
be valid, and the same shall be returnable to the next term of the district
court to be held in and for said county.
§ 6. The clerk of the court of the county aforesaid be and he is hereby re
quired, within twenty days after the passage of this act, to make a fair and
complete transcript of all the entries on his civil docket theretofore made in
cases which, by the provisions of this act, are transferred to the district court
of said county, and file the same, together with the original papers of all said
cases, together with a certified bill of the costs in each case, with the clerk of
the district court of said county, and all such cases shall immediately be dock
eted and numbered consecutively by the clerk of said court beginning with
the lowest number, and shall stand on the docket of said court as appearance
cases for the next term of said court. And for making up said transcript said
clerk shall receive twenty cents for each hundred words and fifty cents for
each certificate, to be taxed as costs against the party cast in the action.
§ 7. All laws and parts of laws in conflict with the provisions of this act
be and the same are hereby repealed. '
The above seven sections are act of February 9, 1883. Took effect July 13, 1888. 18th Leg. 6.
§ 1172n. Jurisdiction restored to the county courts of Parker, Uvalde,
Bed River and Starr counties, and criminal jurisdiction to county court of
Henderson county.
§ 1. All the civil and criminal jurisdiction which the county court of Par
ker, Starr and Uvalde counties had, and all the criminal jurisdiction which
the county court of Henderson county had, under the constitution and laws of
the state of Texas prior to the 25th day of February, 1881, be and the same is
hereby fully restored, and so much of the act approved February 25, 1881,
entitled " An act to diminish the civil and criminal jurisdiction of the county
courts of Henderson, Parker, Uvalde, Lampasas, Blanco, Bexar, Kimble, Nue
ces, Gillespie, Kendall, Wheeler, Oldham, Bandera, Wharton, McMullen, Me
dina, Frio, Dimmitt, La Salle, Hidalgo, Starr, Zapata, Duval and Burnet counties,
and to conform the jurisdiction of the district and justices' courts of said coun
ties to such change," as relates to Parker, Uvalde and Starr counties, and as
relates to the criminal jurisdiction of the county court of Henderson county, be
and the' same is hereby repealed.
§ 2. All the civil and criminal jurisdiction which the county court of Bed
Biver county had under the constitution and laws of Texas prior to the 8th
day of July, 1879, be and the same is hereby fully restored, and so much
of the act entitled " An act to diminsh the civil and criminal jurisdiction of the
county courts of Erath, Comanche, Eastland, Bed Biver, Palo Pinto, Ste
phens, Throckmorton, Taylor, Callahan, Panola, Cass and Bowie counties,
and conform the jurisdiction of the district courts of said counties to such
change," approved July 8, 1879, as relates to Red River county, be and the
same is hereby repealed.
§ 3. All causes now pending in the district courts of the counties of Par
ker, Uvalde, Eed River and Starr, and all criminal causes now pending in the
district court of Henderson county, over which the county courts of said
counties have exclusive jurisdiction under the provisions of this act, and the
laws giving jurisdiction to county courts, shall be transferred to the county
courts of said counties.
§ 4. The clerks of the district courts of the said counties of Parker, Uvalde,
Red River, Starr and Henderson shall, within thirty days from the date that
this act takes effect, transfer to the clerks of the county courts of said coun
ties all the original papers in causes transferred under this act, together
with a certified transcript of all the entries made on the docket of the district
court in such causes, and a certified bill of all costs accrued in such causes ;
and for making out such transcript of the docket, the clerks of the district
court shall be allowed such fees as are now allowed for making out transcripts
in cases of appeals, such fees to be taxed as costs in such suit.
The above four sections are act of February 3, 1883. Took effect July 13, 1883. 18th Leg. 14.
§ 1172o. Jurisdiction of county and district courts of Matagorda and
other counties.
§ 1. The county courts of the counties of Matagorda, Camp, Houston, Kerr,
Mason, San Patricio, Live Oak, Donley, Young, Comal, Wilson and Atascosa
shall have and exercise the general jurisdiction of probate courts; shall pro
bate wills, appoint guardians of minors, idiots, lunatics, persons non compos
mentis and common drunkards ; grant letters testamentary ; settle accounts of
executors, administrators and guardians ; transact all business appertaining to
the estates of deceased persons, minors, idiots, lunatics, persons non compos
mentis and common drunkards, including the petition, settlement and distri
butions of estates of deceased persons, and to apprentice minors as prescribed
by law ; and to issue all writs necessary to the enforcement of its jurisdiction,
and to punish contempts under such provisions as are or may be provided by
general law governing county courts throughout the state, and to nave and to
exercise general jurisdiction over questions of eminent domain, as prescribed
by law, but said county courts shall no other jurisdiction, civil or criminal.
§ 2. It shall be the duty of the county clerks of Matagorda, Camp, Hous
ton, Mason, Kerr, San Patricio, Live Oak, Donley, Young, Comal, Wilson and
Atascosa counties, within twenty days alter the passage of this act, to make
a full and complete transcript of all orders on their respective dockets in cases
now pending in the county courts of said counties respectively, of which cases,
by the terms of this act, exclusive jurisdiction is given to the district courts,
and to deliver said transcript, together with the original papers and a certified
bill of costs in each case, to the clerks of the district courts in their respective
counties, and said district clerks shall enter said cases on their respective
dockets for trial by said district courts, and all process now issued and return
able to the county courts of said counties respectively of which the district
courts of said counties has been given jurisdiction by this act shall be return
able to the district court of said county by the officer executing the same, and
all cases transferred by this act shall stand as appearance cases in said district
courts, and shall be tried by said district courts as other cases. And the dis
trict court shall have and exercise all the civil and criminal jurisdiction here
tofore vested in said county courts by the constitution and laws, and not
divested by this act.
§ 3. All laws in conflict with the provisions of this act be and the same are
hereby repealed.
§ 1172/?. Jurisdiction restored to county courts of the counties ol
Comanche, El Paso, Presidio, Tom Green and Hidalgo.
§ 1. The county courts of the counties of Comanche, El Paso, Presidio,
Pecos, Tom Green and Hidalgo shall hereafter have exclusive original juris
diction in civil cases when the matter in controversy shall exceed in value two
hundred dollars and shall not exceed five hundred dollars, exclusive of interest,
and shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the district courts of said counties
when the matter in controversy shall exceed five hundred dollars and not ex
ceed one thousand dollars.
§ 2. Said county courts shall have appellate jurisdiction in civil cases over
which the justices' courts have original jurisdiction, when the judgment of the
court appealed from or the amount in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars;
and said county courts shall have power to hear and determine cases brought
up from the justices' courts by certiorari, under the provisions of the title of
the Revised Civil Statutes relating thereto.
§ 3. The county judges of said counties shall have authority, either in term
time or vacation, to grant writs of mandamus, injunction, sequestration, at
tachment, garnishment, certiorari and supersedeas, and all other writs necessary
to the enforcement of the jurisdiction of said courts, and shall also have power
to issue writs of habeas corpus in all cases in which the constitution has not
conferred the power on the district courts or judges thereof.
§ 4. Said county courts shall have jurisdiction in the forfeiture and judg
ment of all bonds and recognizances taken in criminal cases, of which crim
inal cases said courts have jurisdiction.
g 5. Said county courts shall have exclusive original jurisdiction of all mis
demeanors except misdemeanors involving official misconduct, and except
cases in which the highest penalty of fine that may be imposed under the law
may not exceed two hundred dollars; and said courts shall also have appellate
jurisdiction in criminal cases of which justices of the peace and other inferior
tribunals of said eounties have original jurisdiction.
§ 6. The district courts of said counties of Comanche, El Paso, Presidio,
Pecos, Tom Green and Hidalgo shall no longer have jurisdiction of cases
of which the couuty courts of said counties, by the provisions of this act,
have exclusive original or appellate jurisdiction; and it shall be the duty of
the district clerics of said counties, within thirty days after the passage of
this act, to make a full and complete transcript of all orders on their respective
dockets, in cases now pending before said district courts, of which cases, b\r
the terms of this act, exclusive jurisdiction is given the county court, and to
deliver said transcript, together with the original papers and a certified bill of
costs in each case, to the clerks of said county courts herein named, and said
county clerks shall enter said cases on their respective dockets for trial by said
county courts.
§ 7. The county courts of said counties shall hereafter hold their regular
terms for civil and criminal business as provided in the constitution and gen
eral laws of the state, and all process heretofore issued from the district courts
of said counties, in cases to be transferred under this act to the county courts,
shall be returnable to the first term of the proper county court, and all civil
cases so transferred shall be entered as appearance causes upon the dockets of
said county court.
<$ 8. All laws in conflict with the provisions of this act are hereby repealed.
The above eight sections are act of April 9, 188U ; ISth Leg. 55.
§ 1172q. Jurisdiction restored to county court of Houston county.
§ 1. So much of an act entitled " An act* to diminish the civil and criminal
jurisdiction of the county courts of Matagorda, Camp, Houston. Kerr, Mason,
San Patricio, Live Oak, £)onley, Young, Comal, Wilson and Atascosa," passed
at the present session of the eighteenth leg.slature, as relates to the county of
Houston, be avid same is hereby in all things repealed. [Act of April 13, 1883 ;
ISth Leg. 84.]
§ 1172r. Jurisdiction of county and district court of Titus county.
§ 1. The county court of Titus county shall hereafter have exclusive original
jurisdiction of all misdemeanors, except misdemeanors involving official mis
conduct, and except cases in which the highest penalty of fine that may be
imposed under the law may not exceed two hundred dollars, and said court
shall also have appellate jurisdiction in criminal cases of which justices of the
peace and Qther inferior tribunals of said county have original jurisdiction.
§ 2. Said county court shall have jurisdiction in the forfeiture and judgment
of all bonds and recognizances taken in criminal cases of which criminal cases
said court has jurisdiction, and shall have power to issue all writs necessaiw to
the enforcement of the jurisdiction of said court, and shall also have power to
issue writs of habeas corpus in all cases in which the constitution has not con
ferred the power on the district courts or the judges thereof.
§ 3. The district court of said county of Titus shall no longer have jurisdic
tion of cases of which the county court of said county, by the provisions of
this act, lias original or appellate jurisdiction. And it shall be the duty of the
district clerk of said county, within twenty days after the passage of this act,
to make a full and complete transcript of all orders on the docket of the said
district court, in cases now pending before said district court, of which cases,
by the terms of this act, exclusive jurisdiction is given to the county court,
and to deliver said transcript, together with the original papers and a certilied
bill of costs in each case, to the county clerk of said county, and said county
clerk shall enter said cases on his docket for trial by said county court.
§ 4. The county court of said county shall hereafter hold its regular terms
for criminal business as provided in tne constitution and general laws ot" the
state, and all process heretofore issued from the district court of said county
in cases to be transferred under this act to the county court shall be return
able to the first term of the proper county court, and all cases so transferred
shall be entered upon the docket of the said county court.
The above four sections are act of April 13, 1883. Took effect July 13, 1883. 18th Leg. 91.
Aet. 1172s. Jurisdiction of county and district court of (Crimes county.
§ l. The county court of Grimes county shall hereafter have exclusive orig
inal jurisdiction in civil cases when the matter in controversy shall exceed in
value two hundred dollars and shall not exceed five hundred dollars, exclusive
of interest, and shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the district court of
said county, when the matter in controversy shall exceed live hundred dollars
ami not exceed one thousand dollars.
§ 2. Said county court shall have appellate jurisdiction in civil cases over
which justices' courts have original jurisdiction when the judgment of the
court appealed* from or the amount in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars.
and said county court shall have power to hear and determine cases brought
up from justices' courts by certiorari under the provisions of the title of the
Revised Civil Statutes relating thereto.
§ 3. The county judge of said county shall have authority, either in term
time or vacation, to grant writs of mandamus, injunction, sequestration, at
tachments, garnishment, certiorari and supersedeas, and all other writs neces
sary to the enforcement of the jurisdiction of said court, and shall also have
power to issue writs of habeas corpus in all cases where the constitution lias
•not conferred the power on the district courts or judges thereof.
§ 4. Said county court shall have jurisdiction in the forfeiture and judgment
of all bonds and recognizances, when in criminal cases, of which criminal cases
said court has jurisdiction.
§ 5. Said county court shall have exclusive original jurisdiction of all mis
demeanors, except misdemeanors involving official misconduct, and except
cases where the highest penalty of tine that may be imposed under the law
may not exceed twe hundred dollars. And said court shall have appelhue
jurisdiction in criminal cases of which justices of the peace and other inferior
tribunals of said county have original jurisdiction.
§ 6. The district court of Grimes county shall no longer have jurisdiction of
cases of which the county court of said county, by the provisions of this act,
have exclusive or appellate jurisdiction, and it shall be the duty of the district
clerk of said county, within thirty days after the passage of this act, to -make
a full and complete transcript of all orders on the district court docket in cases
now pending before said court, of which cases, by the terms of this act, ex
clusive jurisdiction is given the county court, and to deliver said transcript,
together with the original papers and certified bills of costs in each case, to
the clerk of said county court herein named, and said county clerk shall enter
said cases on the county court docket of said county for trial.
§ 7. The county court of said county shall hereafter hold its regular term
for civil and criminal business as provided in the constitution and general laws
of the state, and all process heretofore issued from the district court of said
county, in cases to be transferred under this act to the county court, shall be
returnable to the first term of the county court of said county, and all civil
cases transferred shall be entered as appearance causes upon the docket of said
county court.
§ 8. All laws in conflict with the provisions of this act are hereby repealed.
The above eight sections are act of February 10, 1885; 19th Leg. 11.
§ 1172£. Jurisdiction restored to the county courts of Atascosa and
other counties.
§ 1. The county courts of the counties of Atascosa, Young, Leon, Dimmitt,
Montgomery, Llano and Burnet shall hereafter have exclusive original juris
diction in civd cases when the matter in controversy shall exceed in value two
hundred dollars and shall not exceed five hundred dollars, exclusive of inter
est, and shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the district court of said coun
ties when the matter in controversy shall exceed five hundred dollars and not
exceed one thousand dollars.
§ 2. Said county courts shall have appellate jurisdiction in civil cases over
which the justices' courts have original jurisdiction, when the judgment of
the court appealed from or the amount in controversy shall exceed twenty
dollars, and said county courts shall have power to hear and determine cases
brought up from the justices' courts by certiorari under the provisions of the title of the Eevised Civil Statutes relating thereto.
§ 3. The county judge of said counties shall have authority, either in term
time or vacation, to grant writs of mandamus, injunction, sequestration, attach
ment, garnishment, certiorari and supersedeas, and all other writs necessary to
the enforcement of the jurisdiction of said court, and shall also have power to
issue writs of habeas corpus in all cases in which the constitution has not con
ferred the power on the district court or judge thereof.
§ 4. Said county courts shall have jurisdiction in the forfeiture and judg
ment of all bonds and recognizances taken in criminal cases, of which criminal
cases said court has jurisdiction.
§ 5. Said county courts shall have exclusive original jurisdiction of all mis
demeanors except misdemeanors involving official misconduct, and except cases
in which the highest penalty of fine that may be imposed under the law may
not exceed two hundred dollars ; and said court shall also have appellate juris
diction in criminal cases of which justices of the peace and other inferior
tribunals of said county have original jurisdiction.
§ 6. The district court of said counties of Atascosa, Young, Leon, Dimmitt,
Montgomery, Llano and Burnet shall no longer have jurisdiction of cases of
which the county courts of said counties, by the provisions of this act, have
exclusive original or appellate jurisdiction; and it shall be the duty of the dis
trict clerk of said counties, witnin thirty days after the passage of this act, to
make a full and complete transcript of all orders on his docket, in cases now
pending before said district court, of which cases, by the terms of this act,
exclusive jurisdiction is given the county court, and to deliver said transcript,
together with the original papers, and a certified bill of costs in each case,
to the clerk of said county courts herein named, and said county clerk shall
enter said cases on his docket for trial by said county courts.
§ 7. The county courts of said counties shall hereafter hold their regular
terms for civil and criminal business, as provided in the constitution and gen
eral laws of the state, and all process heretofore issued from the district court
of said counties, in cases to be transferred under this act to the county court,
shall be returnable to the first term of the county court, and all civil cases so
transferred shall be entered as appearance cases upon the docket of said county
court.
§ 8. All laws in conflict with the provisions of this act are hereby repealed.
§ 9. This law, in so far as it applies to the county court of Montgomery
county, shall go into effect and be in force from and after the first day of
September, A. D. 1885.
The above nine sections are act of March 24, 1885. Took effect June 80, 1885. 19th Leg. 47.
Aet. 1172m. Jurisdiction in criminal matters restored to county court of
Zapata county.
§ 1. The county court of Zapata county shall hereafter have exclusive
original jurisdiction of all misdemeanors except misdemeanors involving offi
cial misconduct, and except cases in which the highest penalty of fine that
may be imposed under the law may not exceed two hundred dollars; and
shall also have appellate jurisdiction in criminal cases of which justices of
the peace and other inferior tribunals of said county have original jurisdiction.
§ 2. Said county court shall have jurisdiction in the forfeiture and judg
ment of all bonds and recognizances taken in criminal cases, of which criminal
cases said court has jurisdiction.
§ 3. The county judge of said county shall have authority, either in term
time or vacation, to issue all writs necessary to the enforcement of the juris
diction of said court, and to issue writs of habeas corpus in all cases in which
the constitution has not conferred the power on the district courts or judges
thereof.
§ 4. The district court of said county of Zapata shall no longer have juris
diction of cases of which the county court of Zapata county, by the provisions
of this act, has exclusive original or appellate jurisdiction ; and it shall be the
duty of the district clerk of said county, within thirty days after the passage
of this act, to make a full and complete transcript of all orders on their respect
ive dockets in cases now pending before said district court, of which cases, by
the terms of this act, exclusive jurisdiction is given to the county court, and
to deliver said transcript, together with the original papers, and a certified bill
of costs in each case, to the clerk of said county court, and said county clerk
shall enter said cases on the docket of the county court for trial by said county
court.
§ 5. The county court of said county shall hereafter hold its regular term
for criminal business as provided in the constitution and general laws of the
state of Texas for civil and criminal terms of county courts ; and all process
heretofore issued from the district court of said county in cases to be trans
ferred under this act to the county court shall be returnable to the first term
of the said county court thereafter.
§ 6. All laws in conflict with the provisions of this act are hereby repealed.
The above six sections are act of March 28, 1885. Took effect June 80, 1885. 19th Leg. 60.
§ 1172y. Jurisdiction restored to the county courts of Llano and Mason
counties.
jj 1. The county courts of Llano and Mason counties shall have concurrent
original jurisdiction of all misdemeanors of which exclusive original juris
diction is not given to the justices' court, as the same are now or may be
hereafter prescribed by law, and exclusive original jurisdiction of all misde
meanors when the fine to be imposed shall exceed two hundred dollars, or
where the punishment is by imprisonment in the county jail, either absolutelv
or in the alternative; and they shall have exclusive original jurisdiction in all
civil cases when the matter in controversy shall exceed in value two hundred
dollars and not exceed five hundred dollars, exclusive of interest, and concur
rent jurisdiction with the district courts when the matter in controversy shall
exceed five hundred and not exceed one thousand dollars, exclusive of interest ;
but shall not have jurisdiction of suits for the recovery of land. They shall have
appellate jurisdiction in cases, civil and criminal, of which justices' courts have
original jurisdiction, under such regulations as are now, or may hereafter be.
prescribed by law. In all appeals from justices' courts there shall be a trial
de novo in the county court, and an appeal shall lie to the court of appeals
under such regulations as may be prescribed by law. The county court shall
have the general jurisdiction of a probate court. They shall probate wills,
appoint guardians of minors, idiots, lunatics, persons non compos mentis and
common drunkards; grant letters testamentary and of administration, settle
accounts of executors, administrators and guardians, transact all business ap
pertaining to the estates of deceased persons, minors, idiots, lunatics, persons
non compos mentis and common drunkards; including the settlement, partition
and distribution of estates of deceased persons, and to apprentice minors as
provided by law. And the county court, or judge thereof, shall have power
to issue writs of mandamus, injunction, and all other writs necessary to the
enforcement of the jurisdiction of said courts; and to issue writs of hubta*
corpus in cases where the offense charged is within the jurisdiction of the
county court, or any other court or tribunal inferior to said court.
§ 2. That all causes now pending in the district courts of Llano and Mason
counties of which the county courts of said counties have jurisdiction under
the provisions of this act, and all laws giving jurisdiction to the county courts,
shall be transferred to the county courts 'of said counties.
§ 3. The clerks of the district courts of said counties of Llano and Mason
shall, within thirty days from the date this act takes effect, transfer to the clerk
of the county courts of said counties all the original papers in causes trans
l'erred under this act, together with a certified transcript of all entries made
on the docket of the district courts in such causes, and a certified bill of all
costs accrued in such causes; and for making out such ti anscript of the docket
the clerk of the district court shall be allowed such fees as are now allowed
by law for making out transcripts in cases of appeal, such fees to be taxed as
costs in such suits.
§ 4. All laws or parts of laws in conflict with any of the provisions of this
act, be and they are hereby repealed.
The above four sections are act of March 30, 1885. Took effect June 30, 1885. 19th Leg. 69.
§ 1172io. Civil jurisdiction restored to the county court of Orange
county.
§ 1. All the civil jurisdiction which the county court of Orange county had
under the constitution and laws of the state of Texas prior to the 27th day
of March, 1879. be and the same is hereby fully restored; and so much of
the act approved March 27, 1879, entitled " An act to diminish the civil
and criminal jurisdiction of the county courts of certain counties in this state,
and conform the jurisdiction of the district courts of said counties to such
change," as relates to the civil jurisdiction of the county court of Orange
county, be and the same is hereby repealed.
§ 2. All civil causes now pending in the district court of Orange county
over which the county court of said county has exclusive jurisdiction under
the provisions of this 'act, and the laws giving jurisdiction to county couns.
shall be transferred to the county court of said county.
§ 3. The clerk of the district court of the county of Orange shall, within
thirty days from the date that this act takes effect, transfer to the clerk of
the county court of said county all the original papers in causes transferred
under this act, together with a certified transcript of all the entries made on
the docket of the district court in such causes, and a certified bill of all costs
accrued in such causes; and for making out such transcript of the docket, the
clerk of the district court shall be allowed such fees as are now allowed for
making out transcripts in cases of appeals, such fees to be taxed as costs in
SUOb. Suits. See Art. 1172*.
The above three sections are act of March 31, 1885. Took effect June 30, 1885. 19th Leg. 94
§ 1172a;. Jurisdiction restored to county courts of Tyler, Concho and
Erath counties.
§ 1. The county courts of Tyler, Concho and Erath counties shall have con
current original jurisdiction of all misdemeanors of which exclusive original
jurisdiction is not given to the justices' courts as the same are now and may be
hereafter prescribed by law, and exclusive original jurisdiction of all misde
meanors wnen the fine to be imposed shall exceed two hundred dollars, or
when the punishment is by imprisonment in the county jail, either absolutely
or in the alternative; and they shall have exclusive original jurisdiction in all
civil cases when the matter in controversy shall exceed in value two hundred
dollars and not exceed five hundred dollars, exclusive of interest, and concur
rent jurisdiction with the district courts when the matter in controversy shall
exceed five hundred and not exceed one thousand dollars, exclusive of in
terest, but shall not have jurisdiction of suits for the recovery of land.
They shall have appellate jurisdiction in cases, civil and criminal, of which
justices' courts have original jurisdiction, under such regulations as are now
or may hereafter be prescribed by law. In all appeals from justices' courts
there shall be a trial de novo in the county court, and an appeal shall lie to the
court of appeals under such regulations as may be prescribed by law. The
county court shall have the general jurisdiction of a probate court. They shall
probate wills, appoint guardians of minors, idiots, lunatics, persons non compos
mentis and common drunkards, grant letters testamentary and of administra
tion, settle accounts of executors, administrators and guardians, transact all
business appertaining to the estates of deceased persons, minors, idiots, lunatics,
|iersons non compos mentis and common drunkards, including the settlement, partition
and distribution of estates of deceased persons, and to apprentice minors
as provided by law. And the county court or judge thereof shall have power
to issue writs of mandamus, injunction and all other writs necessary to the
enforcement of the jurisdiction of said courts; and to issue writs of habeas
carpus in cases where the offense charged is within the jurisdiction of the
county court, or any other court or tribunal inferior to said court.
§ 2. All causes now pending in the district courts of Tyler, Concho and
Erath counties of which the county courts of said counties have jurisdiction
under the provisions of this act, and all laws giving jurisdiction to the county
courts, shall be transferred to the county courts of said counties.
§ 3. The clerks of the district courts of said counties of Tyle'r, Concho and
Erath shall, thirty days from the date this act takes effect, transfer to the clerk
of the county court of said counties all the origitial papers in causes trans
ferred under this act, together with a certified transcript of all entries made on
the docket of the district courts in such causes, and a certified bill of all costs
accrued in such causes; and for making out such transcript of the docket, the
clerk of the district court shall be allowed such fees as are now allowed by
law for making out transcripts in cases of appeal, such fees to be taxed ;is
costs in such suits.
§ 4. All laws and parts of laws in conflict with the provisions of this act
be and they are hereby repealed.
§ 1172//. Jurisdiction restored to county courts of Lire Oak, Karnes,
La Salle, Kendall, Coryell, Panola and Throckmorton counties.
§ 1. The county courts of Live Oak, Karnes, La Salle, Kendall, Coryell.
Panola and Throckmorton counties shall hereafter have exclusive original
jurisdiction in civil cases where the matter in controversy shall exceed in value
two hundred dollars, and shall not exceed five hundred dollars, exclusive of
interest, and shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the district courts of said
counties when the matter in controversy' shall exceed live hundred dollars and
not exceed one thousand dollars. [Act jVIarch 27. July 4-, 18S7 ; 20th Leg. p. 47.]
§ 2. Said county courts shall have appellate jurisdiction in civil cases over
which justices' courts have original jurisdiction when the judgment of the
court appealed from or the amount in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars,
and said county courts shall have power to hear and determine cases brought
up from the justices' courts by certiorari, under the provisions of the title of
the Bevised Civil Statutes relating thereto.
§ 3. The county judges of said counties shall have authority, either in term
time or vacation, to grant writs of mandamus, injunction, sequestration, gar
nishment, attachment, certiorari, supersedeas and all other writs necessary to
the enforcement of the jurisdiction of said court, and shall also have power to
issue writs of habeas corpus in all cases in which the constitution has not ex
clusively conferred the power on the district court or judge thereof.
§ 4. Said county courts shall have jurisdiction in the forfeiture and judg
ment of all bonds and recognizances taken in criminal cases of which criminal
cases said court has jurisdiction.
§ 5. Said county courts shall have exclusive original jurisdiction of all mis
demeanors, except misdemeanors involving official misconduct, and except
cases in which the highest penalty of fine that may be imposed under the law
may not exceed two hundred dollars; and said courts shall have also appellate
jurisdiction in criminal cases of which justices of the peace and other inferior
tribunals of said counties have original jurisdiction.
§ 6. The district courts of Live Oak. Karnes. La Salle, Kendall, Coryell,
Panola and Throckmorton counties shall no longer have jurisdiction of cases
of which the county courts of said counties by the provisions of this act have
exclusive original or appellate jurisdiction; and it shall be the duty of the
clerks of the district courts of said counties within thirty davs from the passage
of this act to make a full and complete transcript of all orders on their dockets
in cases now pending before said district courts of which cases by the terms
of this act exclusive jurisdiction is given to the county courts, and to deliver
said transcripts, together with the original papers and a certified bill of costs,
to the clerk of said county courts, and said county clerks shall enter said case
or cases on their dockets for trial by said county courts.
§ 7. The county courts of said counties shall hereafter hold their regular
terms for civil and criminal business as provided in the constitution and gen
eral laws of the state, and process heretofore issued from the district courts of
said counties in cases to be transferred under this actio the county courts
shall be returnable to the first term of the county courts, and all civil cases
transferred shall be entered as appearance cases upon the dockets of said county
courts.
§ 8. The county courts of said Live Oak, Karnes, La Salle, Kendall, Coryell,
Panola and Throckmorton counties shall have, as now, the general jurisdiction
of probate courts for the probate of wills, appointment of guardians of mi
nors, idiots, lunatics, persons non compos mentis and common drunkards, and
for the issuance of letters testamentary and administration, settlement of acconrua
of administrators and guardians, and the settlement of distribution of
uccedents' estates, and the apprenticeship of minors and all other necessary
powers conferred by law on courts of probate.
§ 9. All laws and parts of laws in conflict with the provisions of this act be
and the same are hereby repealed, and that this act take effect and be in force,
from and alter its passage.
§ 11723. Jurisdiction of the county courts of Orange, Concho, Tyler,
Greer and Mason counties.
§ 1. The county courts of Orange, Concho, Tyler, Greer and Mason coun
ties shall have and exercise the general jurisdiction of probate courts; shall
probate wills; appoint guardians of minors, idiots, lunatics, persons -non com
pos mentis and common drunkards; grant letters testamentary; settle accounts
of executors, administrators and guardians; transact all business pertaining to
estates of deceased persons, minors, idiots, lunatics and persons non compos
mentis and common drunkards, including the partition, settlement and distri
bution of estates of deceased persons; and to apprentice minors as provided
by law; and to issue all writs necessary to the enforcement of their jurisdic
tion; and to punish contempts under such provisions as are or may be pro
vided bv the general law iroverninjr count v courts throughout the state; and
to nave and exercise general jurisdiction over questions of eminent domain as
prescribed bylaw; but said county courts shall have no other jurisdiction,
civil or criminal. [Act March 26, 1887; 20th Leg. p. 54.]
§ 2. It shall be the duty of the county clerks of Orange, Concho, Tyler,
<Treer and Mason counties, within twenty days after the passage of this act, to
make a full and complete transcript of all orders on the dockets of the county
courts of said counties, now pending in said courts, of those cases over which
by the terms of this act exclusive jurisdiction is given to the district court, and
to deliver said transcript, together with the original papers and a certified bill
of the costs in each case, to the clerks of the district courts of Orange, Concho,
Tyler, Greer and Mason counties, and said district clerks shall enter said cases
on their dockets for trial by said district courts; and all process now issued
and returnable to the county courts of Orange, Concho, Tyler, Greer and
Mason counties, of which by this act the district courts have been given juris
diction, shall be returnable to the district courts of said counties by the offi
cers executing the same, and all cases transferred by this act shall stand as
appearance cases in said district courts, and shall be tried by said district
courts as other cases ; and the district courts shall have and exercise all the
civil and criminal jurisdiction heretofore vested in said county courts by the
constitution and laws and not divested by this act.
g 3. All laws in conflict with the provisions of this act be and the same are
hereby repealed.
Aet. 1172a«. Jurisdiction of the county court of Brazos county.
§ 1. The county court of Brazos county shall have and exercise original ju
risdiction of all misdemeanors of which exclusive original jurisdiction is not
given to justices of the peace as the same are now or may hereafter be pre
scribed by law, and when the line to be imposed shall exceed two hundred dol
lars; and it shall have and exercise the general jurisdiction of courts of probate;
it shall have power and exercise jurisdiction to probate wills; appoint guardians
of minors, idiots, lunatics, persons non compos mentis, and common drunkards;
grant letters testamentary and of administration; settle the accounts of exec
utors, administrators and guardians; transact all business appertaining to
estates of deceased persons, minors, idiots, lunatics, persons non compos mentis,
and common drunkards, including the settlement, partition and distribution
of estates of deceased persons; and to apprentice minors as provided by law;
and to issue all writs necessary for the eniorcement of their jurisdiction; and
to punish contempts under such provisions as are or may be provided by law ;
and said county court shall have no other original civil jurisdiction. |_-^-ct
March 26, July 4, 18S7 ; 20th Leg. p. 55.]
§ 2. Said county court shall have appellate jurisdiction in cases civil and
criminal of which justices' courts have original jurisdiction, but of such civil
cases only when the judgment of the court appealed from or the amount in
controversy shall exceed twenty dollars exclusive of costs.
§3. That the district court of said Brazos county shall have and exercise
general jurisdiction as heretofore provided by law, and in addition thereto
said court shall have and exercise jurisdiction in all civil matters and causes
0T6r which by the general laws of the state the county court of said county
would' have jurisdiction, except as provided in sections 1 and 2 of this act:
and that all cases other than such as are provided in sections 1 and 2 of this
act be and the same are hereby transferred to the district court of said county ;
and all writs and process pertaining to civil cases heretofore issued by or out
of said county court, other than those relating to matters over which by sec
tions 1 and 2 of this act jurisdiction is given to the county court of said county,
be and the same are hereby made returnable to the term of the district court
next ensuing after this act goes into effect.
§ 4. That the clerk of the county court of said county be and he is hereby
required, within twenty days after this act goes into effect, to make a fair and
complete transcript of all the entries on the civil docket of said county court
theretofore made in cases whicli by section 3 of this act are transferred to the
district court of said county, and file the same, together with the original
papers of all said cases and proceedings, with the clerk of the district court
said county; and all such cases shall be docketed by the clerk of the distri-court
of said county, and said cases shall stand on the docket of said district
court for trial and disposition in the order in which they are docketed; and
for each of said transcripts the county clerk shall receive twenty cents per hun
dred words, and fifty cents for a certificate thereto, to be taxed as costs
against the party cast in the suit.
§ 5. That all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act be'and the same
are hereby repealed.
§ 1172m>. Restoring jurisdiction to county court of Bosque county.
§ 1. The county court of Bosque county shall have exclusive original juris
diction in all civil cases when the matter in controversy shall exceed in value
two hundred dollars, and not exceed five hundred dollars exclusive of interest,
and concurrent jurisdiction with the district court when the matter in contro
versy shall exceed five hundred and not exceed one thousand dollars exclu
sive of interest, but shall not have jurisdiction of suits for the recovery of
land. It shall have appellate jurisdiction in civil cases of which justices'
courts have original jurisdiction, under such regulations as are now or may
hereafter be prescribed by law. In all appeals from justices' courts there
shall be a trial de novo in the county court, and an appeal shall lie to the court
of appeals under such regulations as are now or may be prescribed by law.
The county court shall have the general jurisdiction of a probate court. It
shall pi'obate wills; appoint guardians of minors, idiots, lunatics, persons non
compos mentis, and common drunkards; grant letters testamentary and of ad
ministration; settle accounts of executors, administrators and guardians;
transact all business appertaining to the estates of deceased persons, minors,
idiots, lunatics, persons non compos mentis, and common drunkards, including
the settlement, partition and distribution of estates of deceased persons, and
to apprentice minors as provided by law. And the county court or judge
thereof shall have power to issue writs of mandamus, injunction and all other
writs necessary to the enforcement of the jurisdiction of said court; and to
issue writs of habeas corpus in cases where the offense charged is within the
jurisdiction of the county court or any other court or tribunal inferior to said
court. [Act March 15, July 4, 1887; 20th Leg. p. 22.]
§ 2. All causes now pending in the district court of Bosque county of which
the county court of said county has jurisdiction under the provisions of this
act, and all laws giving jurisdiction to the county court, shall be transferred to
the county court of said county.
§ 3. The clerk of the district court of Bosque county, thirty days from the
date this act takes effect, shall transfer to the clerk of the county court of said
county all the original papers in causes transferred under this act, together
with a certified transcript of all entries made on the docket of the district
court in such causes, and a certified bill of all cost accrued in such causes;
and for making out such transcript of the docket the clerk of the district
court shall be allowed such fees as are now allowed by law for making out
transcripts in cases of appeal, such fees to be taxed as cost in such suits.
§ 4. All laws and parts of laws in conflict, with tue provisions of this act be
§ 1173. Terms of county court for civil and criminal business. The
county court shall hold at least four terms for both civil and criminal business
annually, as may be provided by the legislature or by the commissioners' court
of the county under authority of law, and such other terms each year as may
be fixed by the commissioners' court; provided, the commissioners' court of
any county, having fixed the times and number of terms of the county court,
shall not change the same again until the expiration of one year. Said court
shall dispose of probate business either in term time or vacation under such
regulation as may be prescribed by law. Prosecutions may be commenced in
said courts in such manner as is or may be provided by law, and a jury therein
shall consist of six men. Until otherwise provided, the terms of the county
court shall be held on the first Mondays in February, May, August and No
vember, and may remain in session three weeks. [Amendment of Constitu
tion, art. 5, § 29. Took effect Sept. 23, 1883. See Const, art. 5, § 17. Const,
§ 5, § 17; Act June 16, 1876, § 2; 15th Leg. p. 17.]
[Old Art. 1173. There shall be begun and holden at the county seat of each county a term
of the county court thereof for civil and probate business on the third Mondays in January,
March, May, July, September and November in each year, which shall continue in session
until the business thereof is disposed of ; provided, the term for civil and probate business
shall not extend beyond the commencement of the term for criminal business.] [Const.
§ 5, § 17; Act June 10, 1876, p. 17, § 2.]
§ 346. The commissioners' court did not have authority
to change the time fixed by law for holding the regular term of the county court for civil busi
ness until the 22d of September, 1883, when the amendment of the constitution conferring the
authority took effect. Schwartz v. Liberman, 2 App. C. C. § 289 ; Carothers v. Wilkerson, 2
App. C. C. § 356. See M. P. K'y Co. v. Graves, 2 App. C. C. g 677.
§ 1173a. Terms may be provided by county commissioners' courts.
The county commissioners' courts of the several counties in the state may, at
a regular term thereof, by an order entered upon the records of said court,
provide for more terms of the county court for the transaction of civil, crim
inal and probate business, and fix the times at which each of the four terms
required by the constitution, and the terms exceeding four, if any, shall be
held, not to exceed six terms annually ; provided, that when the commissioners'
court shall have fixed the number of terms of the county court, by an order
entered of record, said court shall not change the number of terms of the
county court for one year from the date of the entry of the original order
fixing the terms of the county court.
Act of February 5, 1884. Took effect May 17, 1884. 18th Leg. S. S. 36. See 11736, § 2.
§ 11735. Terms may be provided by county commissioners' courts;
terms validated. t
§ 1. The county commissioners' courts of the several counties in this state may,
at a regular term thereof, by an order entered upon the records of said courts,
provide for more terms of the county court for the transaction of civil, crimi
nal and probate business, and fix the times at which each of the four terms
required by the constitution and the terms exceeding four, if any, shall be
held, not to exceed six annually, and may fix the length of said terms; pro
vided, thai when the commissioners' court shall have fixed the number of terms
of the county court by an order entered of record, said court shall not change
the number of terms of the county court for one year from the date of the
entrv of the original order fixing the terms of the county court. [Act of
March 26, 1885 ; 19th Leg. 53.]
§ 2. The action of the several county commissioners' courts of this state,
stipulating the number of terms of the county court for the transaction of
civil, criminal and probate business for their respective counties, and fixing the
times for holding of all the terms of said county courts, had under and in
accordance with chapter twenty-three of the general laws of the state of
Texas passed at the special session of the eighteenth legislature, be and are
validated, legalized and made of the same force as if had under and by virtue
of this act, and the several terms of the county courts held in accordance with
the times specified and ordered by said county commissioners' courts be and
the same are hereby validated and made lawful terms of said county courts.
[Ante, 1173a.]
Aet. 1173c. Terms of county court of Jackson county validated. All the
terms of the county court, for civil and probate business, in and for the county
of Jackson, heretofore begun and held on the first Mondays of January and
July of each year, be and the same are hereby legalized and validated, and
all the proceedings therein shall have the same force and effect as if said
terms were held on the third Mondays of January and July of each year.
[Act of February 25, 1881; 17th Leg. 14.]
Aet. 1174. Adjournment of term when there is no judge. Should the
county judge fail to appear at the time appointed for holding the county court,
and should no election of a special judge Tbe had, the sheriff of the county, or,
in his default, any constable of the county shall adjourn the court from day
to day for three days; and if the judge should not appear on the fourth day,
and should no special judge have been appointed, the sheriff, or constable, as
the case may be, shall adjourn the court until the next regular term thereof.
[Aot May 11, 1846, § 9; 1st Leg. p. 200; P. D. 1412.]
For Index, see end of Title 29.
Aet. 1175. Minutes of court read and signed, when. The minutes of the
proceedings of each preceding day of the session shall be read in open court
on the morning of the succeeding day, except on the last day of the session,
on which day they shall be read, and if necessary corrected, and signed in
open court by the county judge. [Act May 11, 1846, § 12; 1st Leg. p. 200.]
A-rt. 1176. Special judge shall sign minutes, when. "When a special
county judge has presided during the term or a portion thereof, he shall sign
the minutes of such of the proceedings as were had before him.
Abt. 1177. Seal of county court. Each of the several county courts shall
be provided with a seal, having engraved thereon a star of five points in the
center, and the words : " County court of county, Texas," the impress of
which shall be attached to all process, except subpoenas, issued out of such
court, and shall be used to authenticate the official acts of the clerk and of the
county judge, where he is authorized or required to use a seal of office. [Act
June 16, 1876, § 22; 15th Leg. p. 17; P. D. 1411.]
§ 1178. Scroll used as seal, when. When no such seal has been pro
vided for the court, the clerk may use a scroll until a seal can be procured.
[Act May 11, 1846, § 12; 1st Leg. p. 200; P. D. 1411.]
§ 1179. Call of probate docket designated, when. On the first day of
the term for civil business the county court shall, by an order entered on the
minutes, designate a dav for taking up the probate business, and the probate
docket shall thereupon be called in its regular order, unless otherwise ordered
by the court. [Act June 16, 1876, § 20; 15th Leg. p. 17.]
§ 1180. Transfer of cause to district court. Whenever a cause shall
be transferred from the county court to the district court, the clerk shall im
mediately make out a transcript of all the proceedings had in said cause in the
county court, and shall transmit the same, duly certified as such, together with
a bill of the costs which have accrued in said court, and all the original papers
in the cause, to the clerk of the district court. [Act June 16, 1876, § 6; 15th
Leg. p. 17.]
§ 1181. Suit commenced, how. All civil suits in the district and county
courts shall be commenced by petition filed in the office of the clerk of such
court. [Act May 13, 1S46; June 22, 1846, §3; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1425.]
§ 1182. Filing of petition; docketing cause. When a petition is filed
with the clerk, it shall be his duty to indorse thereon the day on which it was
filed and the number of the suit, and he shall enter the suit in a docket to be
kept by him for that purpose, to be called the clerk's file docket, [lb. § 6 ;
P. D. i423.]
§ 1183. File docket, how kept. The clerk's file docket shall be so kept
as to show in a convenient form the number of the suit, the names of the
attorneys, the names of the several parties to the suit, and the object thereof,
and in a brief form the return on the process made by the sheriff or constable,
and all the subsequent proceedings had in the case, specifying the time when
they were had. [lb. § 6; P. D. 1428.]
Aet. 1184. Suit may be commenced, when. No civil suit shall be com
menced, nor shall any process be issued or served, on Sunday or on any legal
holiday, except in case of injunction, attachment or sequestration, [lb. § 2;
P. D. 1424.]
§ 1 185. Pleading by petition and answer. The pleadings in all civil suits
in the district and countv courts shall be bv petition and answer. [Act Feb.
5, 1840; March 27, 1S40^ § 1; 4 Cong. 88; P. D. 979.]
§ 1191. Private and special laws, pleaded how. Whenever any pleading
is founded, in whole or in part, on any private or special act or law of the
congress of the republic of Texas, or of the legislature of this state, it shall
not oe necessary for the party pleading the same to set out such private or
special act or law, but it shall be sufficient to recite the title thereof, and 1 he
date of its approval, and to allege in substance so much of such act or law as
may be pertinent to the cause of action or defense.
§ 1192. Amendment of pleadings. The pleadings may be amended under
leave of the court, upon such terras as the court may prescribe, before the par
ties announce themselves ready for trial, and not thereafter. [Act Mav 13,
1846; June 22, 1846, § 34; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 54.]
§ 1193. Amendment filed, when. Such leave shall be given and such
amendment filed for a reasonable time before the case is called for trial, so as
not to operate a surprise to the opposite party. [Act May 13, 1846 ; June 22,
1846, §34; 1st Leg. p. 3G3; P. D. 54.]
§ 1194. Amendment of pleadings after judgment arrested. Whenever
a judgment has been arrested or a new trial granted because of the insuffi
ciency of the pleadings of the party in whose favor the judgment was ren
dered, the court may allow such pleadings to be amended as if no such trial
had been had or judgment rendered. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846,
§ 114; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1475.]
Aet. 1195. Petition, requisites of. The petition shall set forth clearly the
names of the parties and their residences, if known, with a full and clear
statement of the cause of action, and such other allegations, pertinent to the
cause, as the plaintifff may deem necessary to sustain his suit, and without any
distinction between suits at law and in equity, and shall also state the nature
of the relief which he requests of the court. [Act May 13, 1846 ; June 22,
1846, § 5 ; 1st Leg. p. 363 ; P. D. 1427.]
§ 178. It is sufficient if names of
parties are stated in the caption. Clark v. Haney, 62 T. 511. A middle name or initial is not
known in law and will not be noticed except to show identity. McKay v. Speak, 8 T. 376;
Cummings v. Rice, 9 T. 527; The State v. Sianning, 14 T. 402"; Steen v. The State, 27 T. 86;
Page v. Arnim, 29 T. 53. There cannot be a judgment against a person not named as a party
in the pleadings. Bell v. Vanzandt, 54 T. 150; Dunlap v. Southerlin, 63 T. 38. A party to a
written instrument designated by initials of Christian name may be so named in the petition.
Cummings v. Rice, 9 T. 527 ; Brown v. Hunter, 38 T. 620.
§ 443. But
see Green "v. Hill, 4 T. 465; Tulane v. 5icKee, 10 T. 335; Duncan v. Bullock, 18 T. 541.
§ 1198. Tenue of suits. No person who is an inhabitant of this state
shall be sued out of the county in which he has his domicile, except in the
following cases, to wit: [Act Dec. 10, 1863; Feb. 4, 1864; 10th Leg. p. 10;
P. D. 1423.]
§ 305.
§ 1. Married woman. "Where the defendant is a married woman, in which
case she may be sued in the county in which her husband has his domicile.
[P. D. 1423.]
§ 2. Transient person. Where the defendant is a transient person, in which
case he may be sued in any county in which he may be found. [P. D. 1423.]
§ 3. Residence without the state or unknown.' Where the defendant or
all of several defendants reside without the state, or where the residence of
the defendants is unknown, in which case the suit may be brought in the
county in which the plaintifff resides.
§ 236. See end of ch.
§4. Residence in different counties. Where there are two or more defend
ants residing in different counties, in which case the suit may be brought in
any county where any one of the defendants resides. [P. D. 1423.]
Hollomay maintain suit against his co-sureties for contribution in a county in which anv one resides.
Bush v. Bishop, 60 T. 177.
§ 5. Performance in particular county. Where a person has contracted
in writing to perform an obligation in any particular county, in which case
suit may be brought either in such county or where the defendant has his
domicile. [P. D. 1423.]
App.
_ bond
§ 6. Against an executor, administrator or guardian on a money demand.
Where the suit is against an executor, administrator or guardian as such, to
establish a money demand against the estate which he represents, in which
case the suit must be brought in the county in which such estate is adminis
tered. [P. D. 1423.]
§ 7. In cases of fraud or official defalcation. In all cases of fraud, and in
cases of defalcation of public officers, in which cases suit may be instituted in
the county in which the fraud was committed, or where the defalcation
occurred, or where the defendant has his domicile. [P. D. 1423.]
§ 8. In cases of crime, offense or trespass; Where the foundation of the
suit is some crime^ or offense, or trespass, for which a civil action in damages
may lie, in which case the suit may be brought in the county where such
crime, or offense, or trespass was committed, or in the county where the
defendant has his domicile. [P. D. 1423.]
§ 770.
§ 8a. In case of wrongful levy of attachment, etc. Any suit for damages
growing out of the wrongful levy of a writ of attachment or sequestration
may be brought in any county from which such writ issued or in any county
in which any such levy is made within this state. [Act March 25, July 4,
1887; 20th Leg. p. 49.]
§ 9. Suits for recovery of personal property. Where the suit is for the
recovery of any personal property, in which case the suit may be brought in
any county in which the property may be, or in which the defendant resides.
[P. D. 1423.]
§ 10. Suits concerning an inheritance. Where the defendant has inherited
an estate, concerning which the suit is commenced, in which case suit may be
brought in the county where such estate principally lies. [P. D. 1423.]
§ 11. Suits for foreclosure of a mortgage or lien. Where the suit is for
the foreclosure of a mortgage or other lien, in which case suit may be brought
in the county in which the property subject to such lien or a portion thereof
may be situated. [P. D. 1423.]
§ 12. Suits for partition. Suits for the partition of lands or other prop
erty may be brought in the county where such lands or other property, or a
part thereof, may be, or in the county in which one or more of the defendants
reside.
§ 13. Suits concerning Intnl. Suits for the recovery of lands or damages
thereto, suits to remove encumbrances upon the title to land, suits to quiet the title to land, and suits to prevent or stav waste on lands, must be brought in
the county in which the laud or a part thereof may lie. [P. D. 1423.]
§ 14. Suits for divorce. Suits for divorce from the bonds of matrimony
shall be brought in the county in which the plaintifff, whether husband or
wife, shall have resided for six months next preceding the bringing of the suit.
[Act May 27, 1873; 13th Leg. p. 117.]
§ 15. Injunction to stay execution. "When the suit is brought to enjoin
the execution of a judgment or to stay proceedings in any suit, in which case
the suit shall be brought in the county in which such judgment was rendered
or in which such suit is pending. [Act Hajr 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 1; 1st
Leg. p. 363; P. D. 3932.J
§ 158 ; George v. Dyer, 1 App. C. C. § 780.
When the injunction is obtained by one not a party to the judgment, the suit can be brought
in the county of defendant's residence. Brown v. Young, i App. C. C. § 1241.
§ 16. Suit to revise proceedings of probate court. Suits to revise the pro
ceedings of the county court in matters of probate must be brought in the dis
trict court of the countv in which such procedings were had. [Act Aug. 9,
1876, § 128; loth Leg. p." 93.]
§ 17. Suit against a county. Suits against any countv shall be commenced
in some court of competent jurisdiction within such county. [P. D. 1047.]
§ 18. Suit against heads of departments. Suits for mandamus against the
heads of any of the departments of the state government shall be brought
in the district court of the county in which the seat of government may oe.
§ 19. Suit for forfeiture of charter. Suits in behalf of the state for the
forfeiture of the charters of private corporations chartered by act of the leg
islature shall be commenced in the district court of the county in which the
seat of government may be. [Act Aug. 21, 1876; Isov. 19, 1S76, § 2; 15th Leg.
p. 312.J
§ 20. Suit against railroads to forfeit land. Suits on behalf of the state to
forfeit land fraudulently or oolorably alienated by railway companies in fraud
of the rights of the state, under the laws granting lands to railway companies,
shall be brought in the county in which the seat of government may be.
[Const, art. 14, § 5.]
§ 21. Suit against private corporations and railroads. Suits against any
private corporation, association or joint stock company may be commenced in
any county in which the cause of action or a part thereof arose, or in which
such corporation, association or company has an agency or representative, or
in winch its principal office is situated. And suits against a railroad corpora
tion, or against any assignee, trustee or receiver, operating its railway, may
also be brought in any county through or into which the railroad of such cor
poration extends or is operated. [Act March 21, 1874; 14th Leg. p. 31; P. D.
6011/, 6011A.]
§ 21a. Suits by mechanics and others against railroads. Suits by me
chanics, laborers and operatives for their wages due by railroad companies may
be instituted and prosecuted in any county in this state where such labor was
performed, or in which the cause of action or part thereof accrued, or in the
county in which the principal office of such railroad company is situated, and
in all such suits service of process mav be made in the manner now required
by law. [Act of Feb. 18, 1879, § 3; 16th Leg. 8.]
"§21J. Suit against foreign corporation. Foreign private or public cor
porations, joint stock companies or associations, not incorporated by the laws
of this state, and doing business within this state, may be sued in any court
within this state having jurisdiction over the subject-matter, in any county
where the cause of action or a part thereof accrued, or in any county where
such company may have an agency, or representative, or in the county in
which the principal office of such company may be situated; or when the de
fendant corporation has no agent or representative in the state, then in the
county where the plaintifffs or either of them reside. [Amendment April 4,
18S7; 20th Leg. p. 131.]
§ 216. Suit against foreign corporation. Foreign, private or public corporations, joint
stock companies or associations, or acting corporations or associations, not incorporated by the
laws of thus state, and doing business within this state, may be sued in any court within this
state having jurisdiction over the subject-matter in any county where the cause of action or a
part thereof accrued, or in any county where such company may have an agency or represen
tation, in the county in which the principal office of such company may be situated, or when
the defendant corporation has no agent or representative in the state, then in the countv where
the plaintifffs or either of them reside. [Act of March 31, 1885 ; took effect June 30, 1885 ; 19th
Leg. 79.]
§ 22. Suit against insurance companies. Suits against fire, marine or in
land insurance companies may also be commenced in any county in which
any part of the insured property was situated ; and suits against life and acci
dent insurance companies or associations may also be commenced in the county
in which the persons insured, or any of them, resided at the time of such death
or injury. [Act April 17, 1874; 14th Leg. p. 107; P. D. 6011/.]
§ 954.
§ 23. Yenue prescribed by particular law. Whenever in any law author
izing or regulating any particular character of action the venue is expressly
prescribed, the suit shall be commenced in the county to which jurisdiction
may be so expressly given.
§ 1199. When a river, etc., is a county boundary. In all cases where
any part of a river, water-course, highway, road or street shall be the bound
ary line between two counties, the several courts of each of said counties shall
have concurrent jurisdiction in all cases over such parts of said river, water
course, highway, road or street as shall be the boundary of such county, in the
same manner as if such parts of said river, water-course, highway, road or
street were within the body of such county. [Act May 11, 1846; 1st Les.
p. 292; P. D. 1421.]
§ 1199a. Suit against vendors of land. In breach of warranty of title
to lands, where the vendors liable thereon live in different counties, the plaint
iff may bring his action in any county where either of such vendors reside, and
join all other vendors in one and the same suit. [Amendment March 30
July 4, 1887; 20th Leg. p. 69.]
§ 1200. Suit against counties, cities, etc. All suits brought by or
against any of the counties or incorporated cities, towns or villages shall be
bv or against it in its corporate name. [Act May 11, 1846 ; 1st Leg. p. 320 ;
P'. D. 1045.]
§ 1201. Suits by executors, etc. Suits for the recovery of personal
property, debts or damages, and suits for title or for the possession of lands, or
for any right attached to or growing out of the same, or for any injury or
damage done thereto, may be instituted by executors, administrators or guard
ians appointed in this state, in like manner as they could have been by their
testator or intestate, and judgment in such cases shall be as conclusive as if
rendered in favor of or against such testator or intestate.
Judgment set aside for fraud. But such judgment may be set aside by
anv person interested for fraud or collusion on the part of such executor or
administrator. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 44; 1st Leg: p. 363.J
§ 1202. Suits for land against decedents. In every suit against the
estate of a decedent involving the title to real estate, the executor or adminis
trator, if any, and the heirs shall be made parties defendant. [Act Aug. 15,
1870, § 229; 12th Leg. S. S. p. 141.]
§ 1203. Injuries resulting in death. In cases arising under the provis
ions of title LI1 (relating to injuries resulting in death), the parties entitled
thereto may bring their suit for such damages as provided in said title.
§ 1204. "Wife's separate property. The husband may sue either alone
or jointly with his wife for the recovery of any separate property of the wife,
and in case he fail or neglect so to do, she may, by the authority of the court,
sue for such property in her own name. [Act Jan. 20, 1840; March 16, 1840,
§9; 4th Cong. 3; P. D. 4636.]
rl) Cannon v. Hemphill, 7 T. 184; Clay v. Power, 24 T. 804; Hatchett v. Conner, 30 T. 104;
Holloway v. Holloway, 30 T. 164; Turnley v. T. B. & I. Co. 54 T. 451. The husband must sue
alone for injuries to crops grown on land, the property of the wife. T. & St. L. R. R. Co. v.
Reid, 1 App. C. C. § 296. Husband must sue alone for personal injuries to the wife. T. & P.
E'y Co. v. Pollard, 2 App. C. C. § 481 ; Owen v. Tankersley, 12 T. 405 ; Williams v. Turner, 50
T. 137. The husband mav sue alone for damages to the separate property of the wife. T. 6fc
P. R'y Co. v. Medaris, 64 T. 92. The misjoinder of the wife, in a suit by the husband, is not
reversible error, unless prejudice to the adverse party results therefrom. San Antonio E'y Co.
v. Helm, 64 T. 147 ; G. C. & S. F. R'y Co. v. Jones, 3 App. C. C. 22.
§ 422. See end of ch.
§ 4; 2d Leg. p. 77; P. D. 4643.]
§ 41 ; 1st Leg. p. 363 ; P. D. 9.]
§ 4, 45—6;
1st Leg. p. 303; Act Jan. 25, 1840; March 10, 1S40; 4th Cong. 144; P. D.
1426, 1448-9, 225.]
Abt. 1209. Additional parties. Before a case is called for trial additional
parties may, when they are necessary or proper parties to the suit, be broug-ht
in by proper process, either by the plaintifff or the defendant, upon such terras
as the court may prescribe; but such parties shall not be brought in at such
time or in such a manner as unreasonably to delay the trial of the case.
§ 1210. May appear by attorney. Any party to a suit may appear and
prosecute or defend his rights therein, either in person or by an attorney of the
court.
§ 43 ; 1st Leg. p. 363.]
§ 244.
§9; 5th Leg. p. 53; P. D. 1430.]
§ 566.
§ 1214. One to each county. If there be several defendants, residing in
different counties, one citation shall issue to each of such counties.
§ 52; Duer v. Endres, 1 App. C.
C. § 322. But see Baber v. Brown, 54 T. 99; Saunders v. Gilmer, 8 T. 295; Sun Mutual Ins.
Co. v. Holland, 2 App. C. C. § 443.
§ 1215. Shall contain what. Such citation shall be directed to the
sheriff or any constable of the county where the defendant is alleged to re
side, or be, and shall command him to summon the defendant to appear and
answer the plaintifff's petition, at the next regular term of the court, stating
the time and place of holding of the same. It shall state the date of the
filing of the plaintifff's petition, the file number of the suit, the names of all
the parties and the nature of the plaintifff's demand, and shall contain the
requites prescribed in article 1443. [Act Feb. C, 1854; April 13, 1854, § 9; 5th
Leg. p. 53; Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 10; 1st Leg. p. 363; Act Nov.
12, 1866, § 1; 11th Leg. p. 199; P. D. 1130-31.]
Akt. 1216. Defendant out of county. Where the defendant is to be served
without the county in which the suit is pending, a certified copy of the plaint
iffs petition shall accompany the citation, and should there be more than one
defendant to be served without the county, a certified copy of the petition
shall be made out for each of them.
§ 566. When
service of citation is made upon the agent of an incorporated company who resides in the
county where the suit is brought, the defendant company, though its principal office may be
elsewhere, is not entitled to be served with a certified copy of the petition. H. & T. C. R. R.
Co. v. Burke, 55 T. 323.
§ 1217. Where sheriff is a party. Where it appears from the petition
that the sheriff is a party to the suit, or is interested therein, the citation shall
be addressed to any constable of his county. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22,
1846, § 21; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1437.]
§ 1218. Duty of officer. It shall be the duty of the sheriff or constable
to whom any citation shall be delivered to indorse thereon the day and hour
on which he received it, and to execute and return the same without delay.
[Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846. § 14; 1st Leg. p. 363.]
§ 1219. Service of within county. Unless the process should otherwise
direct, the citation shall be served, if within the county in which the suit is
pending, by the officer executing it delivering to the defendant, or if there be
more than one, then to each defendant in person, a true copy of the citation.
§ 1220. Without the county. If served without the county in which
the suit is pending, the officer shall also deliver to the defendant and each of
them, in person, the certified copy of the petition accompanying the citation.
[Act May 13, 1846; June 22. 1846, § 14; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. *D. 1433.]
§ 1221. In suits against any county the citation shall be served on the
county judge of such county. [Act 1846, § 5, p. 320; P. D. 1048.]
§ 1222. Against cities, towns, etc. In suits against any incorporated
oity, town or village, the citation may be served on the mayor, clerk, secretary
or treasurer thereof. [Act Feb. 6, 1S54; April 13, 1854, §9; 5th Leg. p. 53;
P. D. 1430.]
§ 1223. Against incorporated companies. In suits against any incor
porated company or joint stock association, the citation may be served on the
{(resident, secretary or treasurer of such company or association, or upon the
ocal agent representing such company or association in the county in which
suit is brought, or by leaving a copy of the same at the principal office of the
company during office hours. [Act March 27, 1874, § 2; 14th Leg. p. 31; Act
April 17, 1874, § 2; 14th Leg. p. 107; Act Feb. 6, 1854; April 13, 1854, § 9;
5th Leg. p. 53; Act Feb. 7, 1854; April 13, 1854, § 4; 5th Leg. p. 55; P. D.
1430, 4S88.]
§ 122^. Citatio.i served on foreign corporations, hov.. In any suit
against a foreign private or public corporation, joint stock company or asso
ciation or acting corporation or association, citation or other process may be
served on the president, vice-president, secretary or treasurer, or general man
ager, or upon any local agent within this state, of such corporation, joint stock
company or association, or acting corporation or association. [Act of March
31, 1885", § 2; took effect June 30, 18S5; 19th Leg. p. 79.]
§ 1224. Against partners. In suits against partners the citation may
be served upon one of the firm, and such service shall be sufficient to author
ize a judgment against the firm and against the partner actually served. [Act
February 5, 1858; April 16, 1858, § 2; 7th Leg. p. 110; P. D. 1514.]
§ 1225. Return of citation. The return of the officer executing the
citation shall be indorsed on or attached to the same ; it shall state when the
citation was served and the manner of service, conforming to the command of
the writ, and shall be signed by him officially. [Act March 16, 1848; Aug.
1, 1848, § 11 ; 2d Leg. p. 106; P. D. 1507.]
§ 1226. Citation not served. When the citation has not been served
the return shall show the diligence used by the officer to execute the same and
the cause of failure to execute it, and where the defendant is to be found, in
so far as he has been able to ascertain.
§ 1227. Alias process. When any process has not been returned, or has
been returned without service, or has been improperly served, it shall be the
duty of the clerk, upon application of any party to the suit, his agent or at
torney, to issue other process to the same or any other county, as the party
applying may direct. [Act May 13, 1846 ; June 22, 1846, § 19 ; 1st Leg. p. 363 ;
P.I). 1435.]
§ 1226. Time of service of citation. The citation shall be served before
the return day thereof, and in order to compel the defendant to plead at the
return term of the court the citation must have been served at least five days
before the first day of such return term, exclusive of the days of service and
return. [Act March 16, 1848; Aug. 1, 1848, § 10; 2d Leg. p. 106; P. D. 1506.]
§ 41 ; Trevino v. Garza, 1 App. C. C. § 821. Also see 3 App. C. C. § 314.
Abt. 1229. Same. If the citation be issued too late, or if it cannot be
served at least five days before the first day of such return term, exclusive of
the days of service and return, the officer to whom it is delivered shall never
theless proceed to serve the same at any time before the return day thereof ;
and such service shall compel the defendant to plead at the next succeeding
term of the court. [Act March 16, 1848; Aug. 1, 1848, § 10; 2d Leg. p. 106;
P. D. 150(5.]
§ 1230. Notice to defendants without the state. Where the defendant
is absent from the state, or is a non-resident of the state, the clerk shall, upon
the application of any party to the suit, his agent or attorney, address a notice
to the defendant requiring him to appear and answer the plaintifff's petition at
the time and place of the holdiw °f the court, naming such time and place.
Its style shall be " The State of Texas," and it shall give the date of the filing
of the petition, the file number of the suit, the names of all the parties and
the nature of the plaintifff's demand, and shall state that a copy of the plaint
iff's petition accompanies the notice. It shall be dated and signed and attested
by the clerk, with the seal of the court impressed thereon, and the date of its
issuance shall be noted thereon ; a certified copy of the plaintifff's petition shall
accompany the notice. [Act March 15, 1875; June 13, 1875, § 2; 14th Leg.
S. S. p. 170.
§ 101 ; Rowan v. Shapard, 2 App. C. C. § 295. As to service, see same
case, § 301.
§ 1231. By whom served. Such notice may be served by any dis
interested person competent to make oath of the fact. [Act March 15, 1875;
June 13, 1875, § 2; 14th Leg. S. S. p. 170.]
§ 1232. Service in such cases. Service in such cases shall be made by
the person executing the same delivering to the defendant in person a true
copy of such notice, together with the certified copy of the plaintifff's petition
accompanying the same. [Act March 15, 1875; June 13, 1875, § 2; 14th Leg.
S. S. p. 170.]
§ 1233. Return of such service. The return of service in such cases
shall be indorsed or attached to the original notice; it shall state when the
same was served and the manner of service, and shall be signed and sworn to
by the party making such service before some officer authorized by the laws of
this state to take affidavits ; and such affidavit shall be certified under the
hand and official seal of such officer. [Act March 15, 1875; June 13, 1875,
§2; 14th Leg. S. S. p. 170.]
§ 1234. Effect of such service. Where a defendant has been served
with such notice he shall be required to appear and answer in the same man
ner and under the same penalties as if he had been personally served with a
citation within this state. [Act March 15, 1875; June 13, 1875, § 2; 14th
Leg. S. S. p. 170.]
§ 1235. Citation for non-resident defendants, etc. Where any party to
the suit, his agent or attorney, shall make oath at the time of instituting the
suit, or at any time during its progress, that the party defendant is a non
resident of the state, or that he is absent from the state, or that he is a transient
person, or that his residence is unknown to the affiant, the clerk shall issue a
citation for the defendant, addressed to the sheriff or any constable of the
county in which the suit is pending. Such citation shall contain a brief
statement of the cause of action, and shall command the officer to summon
the defendant by making publication of the citation in some newspaper pub
lished in his county, if there be a newspaper published therein, but if not,
then in any newspaper published in the judicial district where the suit is pend
ing; but it there be no newspaper published in such judicial district, then it
shall be published in the nearest district to the district where the suit is pend
ing. Such citation shall be published once in each week for four successive
weeks previous to the return day thereof. [Act March 16, 1S48; Aug. 1, 184S,
§ 13; I'd Leg. p. 1<>(J; Act March 15, 1875; June 13, 1875, § 1; 14th Leg. S. S
p. 170; P. JJ.25; ante, § 195.]
§ 1236. For unknown heirs. Where any property of any kind in this
state may have been granted or may have accrued to the heirs, as such, of any
deceased person, any party having a claim against them relative to such prop
erty, if their names be unknown to him, may bring his action against them,
their heirs or legal representatives, describing them as the heirs of such an
cestor, naming him ; and if the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, shall at the
time of instituting the suit or any time during its progress, make oath that the
names of such heirs are unknown to the affiant, the clerk shall issue a citation
for such heirs, addressed to the sheriff or any constable of the county in which
the suit is pending.
Such citation shall contain a brief statement of the cause of action, and
shall command the sheriff or constable to summon the defendant by making
publication of the citation in some newspaper of his county, if there be a news
paper published therein, but if not, then in the nearest county where a news
paper is published, once in each week for eight successive weeks previous to
the return day of such citation. [Act Nov. 9, 1866, § 1; 11th Leg. p. 125;
Act March 16, 1848; Aug. 11, 1848, § 26; 2d Leg. p. 106; P. D. 26, 5460.]
§ 1237. Contain, what. The citation provided for in the two preceding
§cles shall contain the requisites prescribed in article 1443. [Act to adopt
and establish R. C. S., passed Feb. 21, 1879.]
§ 1238. Return of citation by publication. The return of the officer
executing such citation shall be indorsed or attached to the same, and shall
show when the citation was executed and the manner thereof, specifying the
dates of such publication, shall be accompanied by a printed copy of such
publication, and shall by signed by him officially.
§ 1239. Mistake in return. Any mistake or informality in a return may
be corrected by the officer at any time under the direction of the court. [Act
May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 18; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 53.]
§ 1240. Acceptance of service. The defendant may accept service of
any process, or waive the issuance or service thereof, by a written memorandum
signed by him or by his duly authorized agent or attorney, and filed among
the ]japers of the cause ; and such waiver or acceptance snail have the same
force and effect as if the citation had been issued and served as provided by
law. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 12, 13; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. J).
1508, 1432.]
See art. 1347a, post.
{1) "When the acceptance is by the party, the genuineness of his signature is presumed.
Metz v. Bremond, 13 T. 894 ; Crain v. Griffis, 14 T. 358 ; Laird v. Thomas, 22 T. 276. The ac
ceptance may be indorsed on the petition. Jewett v. Miller, 19 T. 290.
§ 116.
§ 1241. Entering appearance in open court. The defendant may in per
son, or by his attorney, or duly authorized agent, enter an appearance in open
court, and such appearance shall bo noted by the judge upon his docket, and
entered in the minutes, and shall have the same force and effect as if citation
had been duly issued and served as provided by law. [/£.]
§ 1242. Answer is appearance. The filing of an answer shall constitute
an appearance of the defendant so as to dispense with the necessity for the
issuance or service of citation upon him. \_Ib.~]
§ 127.
§ 1243. Motion is appearance, when. "Where the citation or service
thereof is quashed on motion of the defendant the case may be continued for
the term, but the defendant shall be deemed to have entered his appearance
to the succeeding term of the court. \_lb.~\
§ 1244. Reversal of judgment an appearance. Where the judgment is
reversed on appeal or writ of error taken by the defendant for the want of
service, or because of defective service, of process, no new citation shall be
issued or served, but the defendant shall be presumed to have entered bis ap
pearance to the term of the court at which tne mandate shall be filed, [lb.]
§ 1245. No judgment without service. No judgment shall in any case
be rendered against any defendant unless upon service or acceptance or
waiver of process, or upon an appearance by the defendant, as prescribed in
this chapter, except where otherwise expressly provided by law. [Act Mav
11, 1846, § 18; 1st Leg. p. 320.]
§ 1246. Death of plaintifff not to abate suit. Where in any suit the plaint
iff shall die before verdict, if the cause of action be one which survives, the suit
shall not abate by reason of such death, but the executor or administrator, and if
there be no administration, and no necessity therefore, then the heir of such
deceased plaintifff may appear, and upon a suggestion of such death being en
tered of record, in open court, may be made plaintifff in such suit, and the suit
shall proceed in his name. [Act May 13, 1346; June 22, 1846, § 38; 1st Leg.
p. 363; P. D. 6.]
§ 69.
§ 1157.
§ 1247. Scire facias to executor, etc. If upon such death no such ap
pearance and suggestion be made at the first term of the court thereafter it
shall be the duty of the clerk, upon the application of the defendant, his agent
or attorney, to issue a scire facias for the executor, administrator or heir of
such decedent, requiring him to appear and prosecute such suit ; and if, after
service of such scire facias as required in the case of citations, such executor,
administrator or heir shall not enter his appearance on or before the appear
ance day of the succeeding term of the court, the defendant may, on motion,
have the suit discontinued. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 38; 1st Leg.
p. 363; P. D. 6.]
§ 1248. Death of defendant. Where in any suit the defendant shall die
before, verdict, if the cause of action be one which survives, the suit shall not
abate by reason of such death, but, upon a suggestion of such death being en
tered of record in open court, or upon a petition of the plaintifff, representing
that fact, being filed with the clerk, it shall be his duty to issue a scire facias
for the executor or administrator, and in a proper case for the heir of such
deceased defendant, requiring him to appear and defend the suit, and upon
the return of such service the suit shall proceed against such executor, adminis
trator or heir, and such judgment may be rendered therein as may be authorized
bylaw. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1S46, § 39; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 7.]
§ 1249. Where executor, etc., dies. Where an executor or administra
tor shall be a party to any suit, whether as plaintifff or defendant, and shall
die or cease to be such executor or administrator before verdict, the suit shall
not thereby abate, but may be continued by or against the person succeeding
him in the administration, or by or against the heir, where there is no admin
istration and no necessity therefore, upon like proceedings being had as
provided in the two preceding articles, or the suit may be discontinued, as
provided in article 1247. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 39; 1st Leg.
p. 303; P. D. 6, 7.]
§ 1250. Surviving parties. Where there are two or more plaintifffs or
defendants, and one or more of them die, if the cause of action survive to the
surviving plaintifffs and against the surviving defendants, the suit shall not
abate by reason of such death, but upon suggestion of such death being entered
upon the record the suit shall, at the instance of either party, proceed in the
name of the surviving plaintifffs or against the surviving defendants, as the
case may be. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 36; 1st Leg. p. 363; P.
D. 4.]
§ 1251. Death between verdict and judgment. Where in any suit
either party shall die between verdict and judgment, the judgment shall be
entered as' if both parties were living. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846,
§37; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 4.]
§ 481.
§ 1252. Marriage of plaintifff feme sole. A suit instituted by a,feme
sole shall not abate by her marriage, but upon a suggestion of such marriage
being entered on the record, the husband may make himself a party to such
suit and prosecute the same as if he and his wife had been originally plaintifffs
in such suit. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, §40; 1st Leg. p. 363; P.
D. 8.]
§ 1253. Marriage of defendant feme sole. A suit instituted against a
feme sole shall not abate by her marriage, but upon a suggestion of such mar
riage being entered on the record, in open court, or upon a petition represent
ing that fact being filed with the clerk, it shall be his duty to issue a scire
facias to the husband of such defendant, and upon the return thereof exe
cuted, the husband shall be made a party to such suit, and it shall proceed as
if such husband and wife had originallv been defendants in such suit. [Act
May 13, 184G; June 22, 1846, § 41; 1st" Leg. p. 363; P. D. 9.]
Ar#1254. Suit to the use of another. AVhen a plaintifff, suing for the use
of another person, shall die before verdict, the person for whose use such suit
was brought, upon such death being suggested on the record in open court,
may prosecute the suit in his own name, and shall be responsible for costs in
the same manner as he would have been had the suit been commenced bv him.
[Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 42; 1st Leg. p. 303; P. D. 10.]
§ 1255. Death of party to suit for injuries resulting in death. In
cases arising under the provisions of title lii, the suit shall not abate by the
death of either party pending the suit ; but in such case, if the plaintifff "dies,
where there is only one plaintifff, some one or more of the parties entitled to
the money recovered may be substituted and the suit prosecuted to judgment
in the name of such party or parties, for the benefit of the persons entitled;
if the defend.' at dies, his executor, administrator or heir may be made a party,
and the suit jrosecuted to judgment as provided for in previous articles of
this chapte- " [Act February 2, 1860; April 15, 1860, §4; 8th Leg. p. 32; P.
D. 18.]
§ 1£56. Where some of defendants not served. "Where there are sev
eral defendants in a suit, and some of them are served with process in due
time and others not so served, the plaintifff may either discontinue as to those
not so served and proceed against those that are, or he may continue the suit
until the next term of the court and take new process against those not served ;
and no defendant against whom any suit may be so discontinued shall be
thereby exonerated from any liability under which he was, but may at any
time be proceeded against as if no such suit had been brought and no such
discontinuance entered. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, §45; 1st Leg.
p. 363; P. D. 1448.]
§ 1084. A discontinuance may
be refused where it will operate to the prejudioe of the party as to whom it is sought. Schmidt
v. Noel, 64 T. 406.
Aet. 1257. Discontinuance as to principal obligor. "Where a suit is discon
tinued as to a principal obligor no judgment can be rendered therein against
an indorser, guarantor, surety or drawer of an accepted bill who is jointly
sued, unless it is alleged and proven that such principal obligor resides beyond
the limits of the state, or in such part of the same that he can not be reached
by the ordinary process of law, or that his residence is unknown and can not
be ascertained by the use of reasonable diligence, or that he is dead or actually
or notoriously insolvent. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, §45; 1st Leg.
p. 363; P. D. 225, 1426; 1449.
§ 867, 868. If plaintifff proceeds to trial without service of citation on one of
several defendants, the suit will be discontinued as to him. Burton v. Varnell, 5 T. 139 ; Hous
ton v. Ward, 8 T. 124 ; Greenwood v. Watts, 1 App. C. C. § 114.
Aet. 1258. Discontinuance in vacation. The plaintifff may enter a discon
tinuance on the docket in vacation, in any suit wherein the defendant has not
answered, on the payment of all costs that have accrued thereon. [Act May
13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 28; 1st Leg. p. 303; P. D. 1440.]
Akt. 1259. Discontinuance as to defendants. The court may permit the
plaintifff to discontinue his suit as to one or more of several defendants who
may have been served with process, or who may have answered when such
discontinuance would not operate to the prejudice of the other defendants ;
but no such discontinuance shall in any case be allowed as to a principal
obligor, except in the cases provided for in article 1257.
§ 730.
Aet. 1260. If defendant has filed counterclaim. "Where the defendant
has filed a counterclaim seeking affirmative relief, the plaintifff shall not be
permitted, by a discontinuance of his suit, to prejudice the right of the de
fendant to be heard on such counterclaim.
§ 1262. Answer may include several matters. The defendant in his
answer may plead as many several matters, whether of law or fact, as he shall
think necessary for his defense, and which may be pertinent to the cause : pro
vided, that he shall file them all at the same time, and in due order of plead
ing. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 29; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1441.]
§ 1263. Answer to be filed, when. In all cases in which the citation has
been personally served at least five days before the first day of the term to
which it is returnable, exclusive of the da}' of service and return, the answer
of the defendant shall be filed in the district court on or before the fifth day
of the return term, and in the countv court on or before the third day of the
return term. [Act Mav 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 10-12: 1st Leg. p. 363;
act June 10, 1876, g 18; 15th Leg. p. 17; P. D. 1506-1508.] See end of next p.
§ 1264. To citation by publication. In all cases in which service of the
citation has been made by publication the answer shall be filed on or before
the appearance dav of the term next succeeding that to which such citation is
returnable. [Act 'May 13, 1S46; June 22, 1846, § 12; 1st Leg. p. 363.1
§ 1205. An answer setting up any of the following matters, unless the
truth of the pleadings appear of record, shall be verified by affidavit. [Act
May 13, 1S46; June 22, 1S46, § 31; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1.]
1. That the suit is not commenced in the proper county.
2. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue.
3. That plaintifff is not entitled to recover in the capacity in which he sues.
4. That there is another suit pending in this state between the same parties
for the same cause of action.
5. That there is a defect of the parties plaintifff or defendant.
6. A denial of partnership as alleged in the petition, whether the same be on
the part of the plaintifff or defendant. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846,
§ 88; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1444,]
7. That the plaintifff or defendant, alleged in the petition to be duly incor
porated, is not* duly incorporated.
8. A denial of the execution by himself, or by his authority, of any instru
ment in writing upon which any pleading is founded in whole or in part, and
charged to have been executed by him, or by his authority, and not alleged to
be lost or destroyed. Where such instrument in writing is charged to have
been executed by a person then deceased, the affidavit will be sufficient if it
state, that the affiant has reason to believe, and does believe that such instru
ment was not executed bv the decedent or bv his authority. [Act Jan. 23,
1839; act Jan. 26, 1S39; 3 Cong. 67-86; act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846,
§ 30; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1442, 1443.]
9. A plea denying the genuineness of the indorsement or assignment of a
written instrument, as required by article 271.
10. That a written instrument upon which a pleading is founded, is without
consideration, or that the consideration of the same has failed in whole or in
part. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 52; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 228.]
11. That an account which is the foundation of the plaintifff's action, and
supported by an affidavit is not just, and in such case the answer shall set forth
the items and particulars which are unjust. [Act April 2, 1874 ; 14th Leg. p.
52; P. D. 6829c]
12. That the contract sued upon is usurious. [Feb. 5, 1883; July 14, 1883;
18th Leg. p. 4.]
•Article 1265 is act of Feb. 5, 1883. Took effect July 13, 1883 ; 18th Leg. 4, which is the same
as the old article, with the word " not" inserted in subdivision 7, where the star appears.
Aet. 1266. Plea of payment, counterclaim, etc. In every action in which
a defendant shall desire to prove any payment, counterclaim or set-off, he shall
file with his plea, an account stating distinctly the nature of such payment,
counterclaim or set-off, and the several items thereof ; and on failure to do so
he shall not be entitled to prove the same unless it be so plainly and particu
larly" described in the plea as to give the plaintifff full notice of the character
thereof. [Act Feb'y 5, 1840; Mar. 16, 1840, § 2; 4th Cong. 62; P. D. 3444.
§089. Citing Hanchettv. Gray, 7 T. 549; Henderson v.
Gilliam, 12 T. 71 : Hamilton v. Van Hook, 26 T. 302; Smike v. McGehee, 1 App. C. C. § 940;
Singer Manufg Co. v. Wood, 1 App. C. C. § 1179; Bolton v. Sadler, 1 App. C. C. § 1227. As
to unliquidated damages, see Carotliers v. Thorp, 21 T. 358 ; Hamilton v. Van Hook, 26 T. 30:.' ;
Craddoek v. Goodwin. 54 T. 578 ; Shook v. Peters, 59 T. 393 ; Knight v. Eagland, 2 App. C. C.
§ 78. As to reconvention, see Egery v. Power, 5 T. 501 ; Walcott v. Hendrick, 6 T. 406 ; Aliord's
Adm'rs v. Cochrane, 7 T. 485 ; Hammonds v. Belcher. 10 T. 271 ; Castro v. Genfiley, 11
T. 28; Carlin v. Hudson, 12 T. 202; Sterrett v. Houston, 14 T. 153; Castro v. Whitlock, 15 T.
437; Oldham v. Erhart, 18 T. 147; Bradv v. Price, 19 T. 285; Carothers v. Thorp, 21 T. 358;
Slaughter v. Hailev. 21 T. 537 ; North v. Swing, 24 T. 193 ; Duncan v. Magette, 25 T. 245 ; Beck
ham v. Hunter, 37 T. 551 : Coleman v. Bunce, 37 T. 171 ; Avery v. Stewart, 60 T. 154; Scalf v.
Tompkins, 61 T. 476 ; De La Vega v. League, 64 T. 205 ; Schwartz v. Burton, 1 App. C. C.
g 1216; Howard v. Moore, 1 App. C. C. § 225.
§ 1267. General denial need not be repeated. Where the defendant has
pleaded the general denial, and the plaintifff shall afterward amend his plead
ing, it shall not be necessary for the defendant to plead such denial a second
time, but such original denial shall be presumed to extend to all matters sub
sequently set up by the plaintifff.
Aet. 1268. Pleas to be filed in due order, etc. Pleas shall be filed in the
due order of pleading, and shall be heard and determined in such order under
the direction of the court. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 32; 1st Leg.
p. 363; P. D. 2.]
§ 1269. Certain pleas to be determined during the term at which filed.
Pleas to the jurisdiction, pleas in abatement, and other dilatory pleas and de
murrer, not involving the merits of the case, shall be determined during the
term at which they are filed, if the business of the court will permit. [Act
May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 33; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 3.]
§ 1270. By consent of parties. The court may, upon the written con
sent of the parties thereto, or their attorney, filed with the papers of the
cause by an order entered on the minutes, transfer the same for trial to the
court of any other county having jurisdiction of the subject matter of such
suit. [Act June 21, 1876; Nov. 19, 1870, § 1; 15th Leg. p. 25.]
§ 1271. Granted, when. A change of venue may be granted in any
civil cause upon application of either party, supported by his own affidavit
and the affidavit of at least three credible persons, residents of the county in
which the suit is pending, for any of the following causes :
1. That there exists in the county where the suit is pending so great a prej
udice against him that he can not obtain a fair and impartial trial.
2. That there is a combination against him instigated by influential persons
by reason of which he can not expect a fair and impartial trial.
3. For other good and sufficient cause, to be determined by the court. [Act
April 7, 1874, § 1; 14 Leg. p. 67; P. D. 5885a.]
§ 1272. Shall be granted, unless, etc. "Where application for a change
of venue is made in conformity to the requirements oi the preceding article,
the same shall be granted unless it appear to the satisfaction of the judge,
upon proof made before him, that the persons making the affidavit are not
credible persons. [Act April 7, 1874, § 4; 14th Leg. p. 67; P. D. 5885a.]
§ 1273. To what county. Upon the grant of a change of venue, as
provided in the two preceding articles, the cause shall be removed to seme ad
joining county, the court-house of which is nearest to the court-house of the
county in which the suit is pending, unless it be made to appear in the appli
cation that such nearest county is subject to some objection sufficient to author
ize a change of venue therefrom in the first instance; but the parties may by
consent agree that it shall be changed to some other county, and the order of
court shall conform to such agreement. [Act April 7, 1874, §2; 14th Leg.
p. 67; P. D. 58855.]
§ 1274. In case of new counties. Where a suit may be pending in the
district or county court of any county, out of the territory of which a new
county has been or may hereafter be made, in whole or in part, if the defend
ants, or any one of them, shall hie a motion in the court where such suit is
pending, to transfer the same to such new county, naming it, together with an
affidavit stating that neither he nor any one of the defendants now resides in
the territorial limits of the county where such suit is pending, and that neither
he nor any one of the defendants resided in said territorial limits at the time
of the institution of such suit — and shall further swear that at the date of
the filing of such suit said defendant was a resident citizen within the terri
torial limits of the new county — the court shall grant a
change of venue to
such new county, unless the suit could be properly brought in the county in
which the same is pending under some provision of article 1198. [Act July
29, 1876, § 1; 15th Leg. p. 74.]
Abt. 1275. Duty of clerk on change of venne. "When an order for a
change of venue has been granted by the court the clerk shall immediately
make out a correct transcript of all the orders made in said cause, oertifying
thereto officially under the seal of the court, and transmit the same with the
original papers in the cause to the clerk of the court to which the venue has
been changed.
Akt. 1270. Not granted, except, etc. No application for a continuance
shall be heard before the defendant files his defense, nor shall any continuance
be granted except for sufficient cause, supported by affidavit, or by consent of
the parties, or by operation of law. [Act Mar. 10, 1848; Aug. 1, 1848, § 15;
2d Leg. p. 100; P. D. 1509.]
§ 318. An application made after the
overruling of a previous application at the same term is within article 1278. Hunt v. Makenson,
56 T. 9.
§ 1292. See eud of oh.
§ 1277. First application, requisites of. On the first application for a
continuance, if the ground of such application be the want of testimony, the
party applying therefore ^hall make affidavit that such testimony is material,
and that he has used due diligence to procure the same, stating such diligence.
[Act Mar. 10, 1818; Aug. 1, 1848, § 15; 2d Leg. p. 100; P. D. 1509.]
§ 1278. Second and subsequent applications. On the second or any
subsequent application for a continuance, if the ground of such application be
the want of testimony, the party applying therefore shall make affidavit that
sucb testimony is material, showing the materiality thereof, and that he has
used due diligence to procure such testimony, stating such diligence, and the
cause of failure, if known ; that such testimony cannot be obtained from any
other source; and if it be for the absence of a witness, he shall state the name
and residence of the witness and what he expects to prove by him; and he
shall also state that the continuance is not sought for delay only, but that
i'ustice mav be done. [Act March 16, 1848; Aug. 1, 1818, § 15; 2d Leg. p. 10G;
?. D. 1509.]
§ 517.
§ 1279. Business not disposed of, continued. If from any cause the
court shall not be held at the time prescribed by law, or if the business before
the court be not determined before the adjournment thereof, such business, of
whatsoever nature, remaining undetermined, shall stand continued until the
next succeeding term of the court. [Act Mav 13,1816; June 22, 1816; 1st
Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1462.]
§ 1280. Appearance day. The fifth day of each term of the district
court and the third day of each term of the county court are termed appear
ance days.
§ 1281. Call of docket. It shall be the duty of the court on appearance
day of each term, or as soon thereafter as may be practicable, to call in their
order all the cases on the docket which are returnable to such term.
§ 1282. Judgment by default. Upon the call of the appearance docket,
or at any time after appearance day, the plaintifff may take judgment by de
fault against any defendant who has been duly served with process and" who
has not previously filed an answer. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 12;
1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1508.]
§ 11.
§ 723; Johnson v. Dowling, 1 App. C. C. § 1091.
§ 494.
§ 1283. If all defendants do not answer. Where there are several de
fendants, some of whom have answered and others have made default, an
interlocutory judgment by default may be entered against those who have not
answered, and the cause may proceed against the others; but only one final
judgment shall be given in the suit. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 47;
1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1450.]
§ 12S4. Damages on liquidated demands. Where a judgment by de
fault is rendered against the defendant, or all of several defendants, it the
cause of action is liquidated and proved by an instrument in writing, the dam
ages shall be assessed by the court or under its direction, and judgment final
shall be rendered therefore unless the defendant shall demand and be entitled
to a trial by jurv. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 47; 1st Leg. p. 363;
P. D. 1450.
§ 1285. On unliquidated demands. If in such case the cause of action
is unliquidated or be not proved by an instrument in writing, the court shall
hear evidence as to the damages and shall render judgment therefore, unless
the defendant shall demand and be entitled to a trial bv jury. [Act Mav 13,
1846; June 22, 1846, § 47; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1450.]'
§ 164; T. & P. R'y Co. v. Looby, 1 App. C. C. § 577.
A verified account, the affidavit to which is defective, will not support a judgment by de
fault. Duer v. Endres, 1 App. C. C. § 323.
§ 47; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1450.]
Akt. 1*287. Suits called in order. All suits in which final judgments shall
not have been rendered by default, as hereinbefore provided, shall be called
for trial in the order in which they stand on the docket to which they belong,
unless otherwise ordered by the court. [Act Mav 13, 1846 ; June 22, 1846,
§ 93 ; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1461.]
<1) A suit cannot be called for trial out of its regular order and before the causes having prece
dence on the docket have been tried, postponed, set or heeled. Kirkland v. Sullivan, 43 T. 233.
Akt. 1288. Tried, when called, etc. Every suit shall be tried when it is
called, unless it be continued or be postponed to a future day of the term, or
be placed at the end of the docket to be called again for trial in its regular
order. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 93; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1461.]
§ 12S9. Day set for the jury docket. The court shall, at the first term
after the passage of this act, by an order entered on the minutes, designate a
day of the term for taking up for trial the causes on the jury civil docket, at
all subsequent terms, until changed by a like order; but, in case of change, it
shall not take effect until the succeeding term of said court. In all cases in
which juries have been demanded by either party, all questions of law, demur
rers, exceptions to pleadings, shall, as far as practicable, be heard and deter
mined by the court before the day designated for the trial of said ]ury causes,
and all jurors shall be summoned to appear on the day of the term so desig
nated. [Act of Feb. 10, 1881, took effect July 1, 1881; 17th Leg. 5.]
§ 1290. Call of non-jury (locket. The docket of cases in which jury
trials have not been granted shall be taken up at such times and in such manner
as not unnecessarily to interfere with the dispatch of business on the jury
docket.
§ 1291. Issues of law and dilatory pleas, tried when. When a case is
called for trial, the issues of law arising on the pleadings, and all pleas in
abatement, and other dilatory pleas remaining undisposed of, shall be deter
mined, and it shall be no cause for the postponement of the trial of the issues
of law that a party is not prepared to trv the issues of fact. [Act May 13,
1846; June 22, 1S46, § 33; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 3.]
§ 9.
§ 718. And a judgment rendered on
proper evidence will not be reversed because incompetent evidence was admitted. Beaty v.
Whittaker, 23 T. 526; Smith v. Hughes, 23 T. 248; Milton v. Cobb, 21 T. 539; Clayton v.
McKinnon, 54 T. 206; Lindsay v. Jaffray, 55 T. 626; Fowler v. Chapman. 1 App. C. C. 8 963;
Grace v. Koch, 1 App. C. C. § 1062; McGaughey v. Meek, 1 App. C. C. § 1195; Franklin v.
Hardie, 1 App. C. C. § 1219 ; Wade v. Buford, 1 App. C. C. § 1336.
§ 45; Mitchell v. Dallas C. G. L. Co. 1 App. C. C. § 133 ; Shaw v. Parvin, 1 App. C. C.
§ 367 ; Faulkner v. Warren, 1 App. C. C. S 661 ; Bailey v. Hearne, 1 App. C. C. S 969 ; McDonald
t. Holt, 1 App. C. C. § 1015 ; Schneider v. Bullard, 1 App. C. C. § 1188 ; T. & P. R. R Co. v. Hoskins,
2 App. C. C. S 67. But where there is an insufficiency of evidence, the judgment will
be reversed. W. U. T. Co. v. Bertram, 1 App. C. C. § 1155.
Akt. 1293. Agreed case. The parties may in any case submit the matter in
controversy between them to the court upon an agreed statement of facts
made out and signed by them or their counsel, and filed with the clerk, upon
which judgment shall be rendered as in other cases; and in such case the
statement so agreed to and signed and certified by the court to be correct, and
the judgment rendered thereon, shall constitute the record of the cause. [Act
Feb. 5, 1858; July 5, 1858, § 12; 7th Leg. p. 110; P. D. 1516.]
Aet. 1294. Cases from inferior courts. In all cases brought up from
inferior courts, whether by appeal or certiorari, the case shall be tried de novo.
[Act May 13, 1S46; June 22, 1S40, <;§ 59, 60; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1459,
1460.]
ston, 60 T. 149. See end of ch.
§ 1295. Stenographer. For the purpose of preserving a statement of
the evidence given on the trial of a cause, the court may, and upon application
of either party shall, employ a stenographer or other competent person to
take down the testimony in a cause.
§ 1296. His compensation. Eeasonable compensation, not to exceed
twenty cents per hundred words, shall be allowed such stenographer, to be
fixed by the court and taxed in the bill of costs.
Akt. 1297. Proceedings on trial by jury. In suits tried by a jury the trial
shall proceed in the following order, unless the court should for good cause, to
be stated in the record, otherwise direct :
1. The plaintifff or his counsel shall read his petition to the jury.
2. The defendant or his counsel shall read his answer.
3. If there be any intervener, he or his counsel shall read his pleadings.
4. The party, plaintifff or defendant, upon whom rests the burden of proof
on the whole case under the pleadings, shall then be permitted to state to the
jury briefly the nature of his claim or defense and facts relied on in support
thereof.
5. Such party shall then introduce his evidence.
6. The adverse party shall then be permitted to state briefly the nature of
his defense or claim and the facts relied on in support thereof.
7. He shall then introduce his evidence.
8. The intervenor, if any, shall in like manner be permitted to make his
statement, and shall then introduce his evidence.
9. The parties shall then be confined to rebutting testimony on each side.
§ 834.
§4. The admission must be entered of record. Ayers v. Lancaster, 64 T. 305. See end of ch.
§ 1298. Additional testimony. The court may at its discretion, at any
time before the conclusion of the argument, where it appears to be necessary
to the due administration of justice, allow a party to supply an omission in the
testimony, on such terms and under such limitations as the court may pre
scribe.
§ 1200. Order of Argument. After the evidence is concluded the parties
may submit the ciso to the jury in argument; the party having under the
pleadings the burden of proof on the whole case shall be entitled to open ana
conclude the argument ; where there are several other parties having separate
claims or defenses, and represented by different counsel, the court shall pre
scribe the order of argument between them.
§ 1001 ; H. & T. C. R'y Co. v. Newman, 2 App.
C. C. § 350.
An observance of Rule 39, 47 T. 024, should be enforced in arguments to the court in the
hearing of the jury. Wood v. Samuels, 1 App. C. C. § 925.
§ 1239.
§ 1001.
§ 488; T. & P. R. Co. v. Wills, 2 App. C. C. 796. Im
proper remai'ks of the successful counsel are presumed to have influenced the minds of the jury,
and are ground for reversal, if the verdict was against the great preponderance of evidence:
the fact that the opposite counsel had an opportunity to reply does not affect the question.
Blum v. Simpson, 66 T. 84. Counsel who has used improper language in his argument cannot
complain of the language used by the opposing counsel in reply. Heidenheimer v. Thomas, 63
T. 287; Texas & P. R'y Co. v. Garcia, 02 T. 285.
§ 1300. Charge and instructions. After the conclusion of the argument
the court shall read to the jury the charges and instructions, if any, under the
provisions of this title relating thereto. [Act Feb'y 6, 1853; April 7, 1853,
§ 99; 4th Leg. S. S. p. 19; P. D. 1464.]
§ 1301. Nonsuit taken, when. At any time before the jury have re
tired, the plaintifff may take a nonsuit, but he shall not thereby prejudice the
right of an adverse party to be heard on his claim for affirmative relief; when
the case is tried by the judge such nonsuit may be taken at any time before
the decision is announced. [Act Feb'y 6, 1853; April 6, 1853, § 99; 4th Leg.
S. S. p. 19; P. D. 1404.]
§ 1302. Foreman of jury. The court may appoint one of the jury to be
the foreman thereof, and in case no foreman is appointed by the court, the jury
may elect a foreman from their number, who shall preside at their delibera
tions and see that the same are conducted with regularity and in order.
§ 1303. Papers taken by the jury. The jury may take with them in their
retirement the charges and instructions in the cause, the pleadings and any
written evidence except the depositions of witnesses. But when part only of
a paper has been read in evidence, the jury shall not take the same with them
unless the part so read to them is detached from that which was excluded.
§ 1304. Jury to be kept together. The jury may either decide the case
in court or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they shall be kept together
in some convenient place, under the charge of an officer, until they agree upon
a verdict or are discharged by the court; but the court may in its discretion
permit them to separate temporarily for the night and at their meals, and for
other proper causes.
§ 1305. Duty of officer in charge. The officer having the jury under
his charge shall not suffer any communication to be made to them, or make
any himself, except to ask them if they have agreed upon their verdict, unless
by order of the court; and he shall not, before their verdict is rendered, com
municate to any person the state of their deliberations or the verdict agreed
upon.
§ 1306. Caution to the jury. If the jury are permitted to separate,
either during the trial or after the case is submitted to them, they shall be ad
monished by the court that it is their duty not to converse with, or suffer
themselves to be addressed by, any other person, on any subject connected
with the trial.
§ 1307. Jury may communicate with the court. When the jury wish
to communicate with the court, they shall make their wish known to the
officer having them in charge, who shall inform the court thereof, and they
may be brought into open court, and through their foreman shall state to
the court, either verbally or in writing, what they desire to communicate.
§ 1308. May ask further instruction. The jury may, after having re
tired, ask further instruction of the court touching any matter of law. For
this purpose they shall appear before the judge in open court in a body, and
through their foreman state to the court, either verbally or in writing, the
particular question of law upon which they desire further instruction, and the
court shall give such instruction in writing; but no instruction shall be given
except upon the particular question on which it is asked. [Act Feb. 8, 1S33;
April 7, 1853, § 99; 4th Leg. S. S. p. 19; P. D. 1464.]
§ 1309. May have witness recalled. If the jury disagree as to the
statement of any particular witness, they may, upon applying to the court,
have such, witness again brought upon the stand, and he shall be directed by
the judge to detail his testimony to the particular point of disagreement,
and no other, and as nearly as he can in the language used upon his examina
tion.
§ 1310. May have deposition, etc., re-read. If the jury disagree as to
any portion of a deposition or other paper not carried with them in their
retirement, the court may in like manner permit such portion of the deposition
or paper to be again read to the jury.
§ 1311. Disagreement of jury. The jury may, after the cause is sub
mitted to them, be discharged by the court when they cannot agree, and both
parties consent to their discharge, or when they have been kept together for
such time as to render it altogether improbable that they can agree.
§ 1312. May be discharged. They may also be discharged by the court
when any calamity or accident may, in the opinion of the court, require it;
and they shall be so discharged when by sickness or other cause their number
is reduced below the number constituting a jury in such court. [Const, art.
5, §13.]
§ 1313. Discharge of. The final adjournment of the court before the
jury have agreed upon a verdict discharges them.
§ 1314. Case to be tried again. Where a jury has been discharged as
herein provided, without having rendered a verdict, the cause may be again
tried at the same or another term.
§ 1315. After jury retires. The court may, during the retirement of
the jury, proceed to any other business and adjourn from time to time, but
shall be deemed open for all purposes connected with the case before the jury.
§ 1316. Judge may charge the jury. After the argument of a cause
the judge may, in open court, deliver a charge to the jury on the law of the
case, subject to the restrictions hereinafter provided. [Act February 5, 1853;
April 10, 1853, § 99; 6th Leg. p. 19; P. D. 1464.]
§ 1138. Charge should avoid the statement of unnec
essary matter. T. & P. R'y Co. v. Scott, 64 T. 549.
§ 446; G. H. & S. A. R'v Co. v. Schrader, 1 App. C. C. § 1148. And furnish the
role for discriminating between actual and exemplary damages. G. H. & S. A. R'y Co. v. Dunlavy,
56 T. 256 ; but the omission is not error, where a proper charge has not been asked. T. &
P. R. R. Co. v. Casey, 52 T. 112. Should instruct as to what constitutes a partnership. Bacon
v. Lloyd, 1 App. C. C. § 286.
§ 1317. Requisites of the charge. The charge shall be in writing and
signed by the judge, and he shall read it to the jury in the precise words in
which it is written ; he shall not charge or comment on the weight of evidence ;
he shall so frame the charge as to distinctly separate the questions of law from
the questions of fact; he shall decide on and instruct the jury as to the law
arising on the facts, and shall submit all controverted questions of fact solely
to the decision of the jury. [Act Feb'y 5, 1853; April 10, 1853, § 99; 6th
Leg. p. 19 ; P. D. 1464.]
§ 1318. Need not be excepted to. Such charge shall be filed by the
clerk and shall constitute a part of the record of the cause, and shall be re
garded as excepted to, and subject to revision for errors therein, without the
necessity of taking any bill of exception thereto.
§ 413; Hab v. Johnston, 1 App. C. C. § 020; Blum v. Martindale.
1 App. C. C. § 1127; Cheveral v. Bowman, 2 App. C. C. g 115. Also, see 2 App. C. C.
§ 187; 06 T. 70. Nor is the omission to give all the law applicable to the case. Robinson v.
Varnell, 10 T. 382; Linn v. Wright, 18 T. 317; Farquhar v. Dallas, 20 T. 200; Thompson v.
Payne, 21 T. 021; G. H. & S. A. R. Co. v. Delahunty, 53 T. 200; Wisson v. Baird, 1 App. C. C.
§ 710; T. C. R'v Co. v. Clifton, 2 App. C. C. g 490; Dargan v. P. P. Car Co. 2 App. C. C. § 694;
Ft. Worth & D. C. R. R. Co. v. Stingle, 2 App. C. C. § 700; T. & P. R'y Co. v. Wills, 2 App.
C. C. g 790. Otherwise, if the jury has been misled by a charge, or their attention been
withdrawn from a material inquiry, and their verdict might have been different. Spence v.
Onstott, 3 T. 147; Chandler v. Fulton, 10 T. 2; Lee v. Hamilton, 12 T. 413; Pontou v. Ballard,
24 T. 619; Keyser v. Pilgrim, 25 T. S. 217; Austin v. Talk, 20 T. 127: Bailey v. Mills, 27 T. 434;
Burnett v. Waddell, 54 T. 273; Glasscock v. Hughes, 55 T. 401; Dwyer v. Continental Ins.
Co. 57 T. 181.
§ 1319. Parties may ask instructions. Either party may present to
the judge, in writing, such instructions as he desires to be given to the jury,
and the judge may give such instructions, or a part thereof, or he may refuse
J> ;ive them as he may see proper, and he shall read to the jury such of
..i^.n us he mav give. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 18i6, § 100; 1st Leg. p.
~o3; Jf. D. 216.]
Aet. 1320. Refused instructions are part of record. When the instruc
tions asked, or some of them, are refused, the judge shall note distinctly which
of them he gives, and which he refuses, and shall subscribe his name thereto,
and such instructions shall be filed with the clerk, and shall constitute a part
of the record of the cause, subject to revision for error without the necessity
of taking any bill of exception thereto. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846,
§ 100; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 216.]
§ 99; 6th Leg. p. 19; P. D. 1464.]
Aet. 1322. Rendition of verdict. When the jury have agreed upon their
verdict they shall be conducted into court by the officer having them in charge,
and their names shall be called by the clerk, and they shall deliver their ver
dict to the clerk.
§ 1052.
Aet. 1323. Mast be in writing and signed. The verdict shall be in writ
ing, and shall be signed by the foreman ; and where, pending a trial in the
district court, any juror may die or be disabled from sitting, and the verdict
is rendered by the remaining jurors, the verdict shall be signed by all of such
remaining jurors. [Act August 1, 1876; August 18, 1876, §19; 15th Leg.
p. 78. See E. S. art. 3101.] ,
§ 1324. Verdict received and docketed. The clerk shall read the verdict
aloud, and shall inquire of the jury if such is their verdict; if any juror disa
grees to the verdict, the jury shall be sent out again, but if no disagreement is
expressed, and neither party requires the jury to be polled, the court shall (ex
cept in the cases hereinafter provided for) receive the verdict and enter a
minute thereof on the docket, and theiury shall be discharged.
Aet. 1325. Jury may be polled, when the verdict is announced either
party may require the jury to be polled, which is done by the clerk or judge
asking each juror separately if such is his verdict; if any juror answers in the
negative, the jury shall again be sent out for further deliberation ; but if each
juror concurs in the verdict the same shall be received and noted in the docket,
except in the cases provided for in the two succeeding articles, and the jury
shall be discharged. [See article 1323, note (3).]
Aet. 1326. Defective verdict. If the verdict is informal or defective the
court may direct it to be reformed at the bar, and where there has been a
manifest miscalculation of interest, the court may direct a computation thereof
at the bar, and the verdict may, if the jury assent thereto, be reformed in ac
cordance with such computation.
§ 1327. Not responsive to issues. If the verdict is not responsive to the
issues submitted to the jury, the court shall call their attention thereto, and
send them back for further deliberation.
§ 1329. What is general. A general verdict is one whereby the jury
pronounce generally in favor of one or more parties to the suit upon all or any
of the issues submitted to them.
§ 1330. What is special. A special verdict is one wherein the jury find
the facts only on issues made up and submitted to them under the direction of
the court. |_Act May 13, 1840; June 22, 1S46, § 10S, p. 363; P. L>. 1469.]
§ 1331. Requisites of. The special verdict must find the facts as estab
lished by the evidence, and not the evidence by which they are established,
and the findings must be such as that nothing remains for the court but to
draw from such facts the conclusions of law.
§ 1332. Special verdict conclusive. A special verdict found under the
provisions of the two preceding articles shall, as between the parties, be con
clusive as to the facts found.
§ 1333. Verdict of jury; conclusions of jnd~e. The jury shall render
a general or special verdict as may be directed by the court, and the verdict
comprehend the whole issue or all the issues submitted to them; and
upon a trial by the court, the judge shall, at the request of either of the
parties, also state in writing the conclusions of* the fact found by him sep
arately from the conclusions of law, which conclusions of fact and law shall
be filed with the clerk and shall constitute a part of the record ; and in all
cases where a special verdict of the jury is rendered, or the conclusions of
fact found by the judge are separately stated, the court shall, unless the same
be set aside and new trial granted, render judgment thereon, and it shall be
sufficient for the party excepting to the conclusions of law or judgment of
the court, to cause it to be noted on the record in the judgment entry that he
excepts thereto; and snch party may thereupon take his appeal or writ of
error without a statement of facts or further exceptions in the transcript, but
the transcript shall in such case contain the special verdict or conclusions of
fact and law aforesaid and the judgment rendered thereon. [Act of Julv 9,
1879; took effect Oct. 8, 1879; 16th Leg. S. S. p. 38.]
•There seems to be no change made by the new article except the insertion of "the" be
tween " of " and " fact," and some changes in punctuation. See old Article and note below.
[Old Art. 1333. The jury shall render a general or special verdict as may be directed by
the court ;* and the verdict shall comprehend the whole issue or all the issues submitted to
them ; and upon a trial by the court, the judge shall, at the request of either of the parties,
also state in writing the conclusions of ' the fact found by him, separately from tlie conclu
sions of law ; 2 which conclusions of fact and law shall be filed with the clerk 3 and shall con
stitute a part of the record ; and in all cases where a special verdict of the jury is rendered i
or the conclusions of fact found by the judge are separately stated, the court shall, unless the
same be set aside and new trial granted, render judgment thereon, and it shall be sufficient
for the party excepting to the conclusions of law or judgment of the court a to cause it to be
noted on the record in the judgment entry, that he excepts thereto; and such party may there
upon take his appeal or writ of error without a statement of facts or further exceptions in the
transcript, but the transcript shall in such case contain the special verdict or conclusions of
fact and law aforesaid and the judgment rendered thereon.] [Acts 1879, ch. Ill, p. 119; and
lb., extra session, ch. 42.]
At (') in the new the word " the" is inserted; at O a semicolon is added; at (3) commas are
placed and at the (*) a comma is used in place of a semicolon.
1 1) The refusal of a judge to furnish a statement must be shown by the record. C. N. Bank
v. Stout, 61 T. 567.
§ 813. Or when it is apparent that the refusal worked no injury to the complain
ing party. Sliuber v. Holcomb, 2 App. C. C. § 224. And see Barnett v. Abernathy, 2 App.
C. C. § 775. A party is entitled to have the statement prepared and filed in the record upon
request made therefore within a reasonable time. In this case, the request was made immedi
ately after the motion for new trial was overruled, and the term continued for ten days there
after. North v. Lambert, 3 App. C. C. § 53. When the judge failed to state the conclusions
of fact found by him, as well as his findings of law. exception thereto having been properly
reserved, the judgment was reversed and cause remanded for a new trial. Oallaghan v. Grenet,
66 T. 239.
§ 335. The sufficiency of the
facts found to sustain the legal conclusion of the judge will not be considered unless excepted
to. When such exception is made and noted in the judgment entry, the adverse party must
take notice of it, and if, in his opinion, the conclusions of fact or law are not so full or accurate
as they should be, for his own protection, it will be his right to have a statement of facts from
which the judgment may be sustained ; or in any other respect, to have a complete presenta
tion of the case. If no exception to the conclusions of law or judgment of the court is noted,
unless the failure to except be waived or not insisted on, the only inquiry will be, whether the
pleadings justify the judgment. Continental Insurance Co. v. Milliken, 64 T. 46. Also, see G.
C. & S. F. R'y Co. v. Fossctt, 66 T. 338.
§ 1334. Not void for want of form. No special form of verdict is re
quired, and where there has been a substantial compliance with the require
ments of the law in rendering a verdict, the judgment shall not be arrested or
reversed for mere want of form therein. [Act Alay 13, 1846; June 22, 1846,
§ 104; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1465.J
Abt. 1335. How framed. The judgment of the court shall conform to the
pleadings, the nature of the case proved and the verdict, if any, and shall be
so framed as to give the party all the relief to which he may be entitled either
in law or equitv. [Act May 13, 1816 ; June 22, 1S40, § 15 ; ist Leg. p. 363 ; Act
May 11, 1846; June 22, 1846, §7; 1st Leg. p. 200; P. D. 1476, 1410.]
§ 131 ; Jones v. Brazile, 1 App. C. C. § 299 ; Rogers v. Harrison, 1 App. C. C. § 495 ; McArnia v.
Mclntvre, 1 App. C. C. § 514; Blum v. Ferguson, 1 App. C. C. § 581 ; Peet v. Hereford, 1 App.
C. C. § 871, 875.
§ 1338. Judgment may pass title, etc. Where the judgment is for the
conveyance of real estate, or for the delivery of "personal property, the decree
may pass the title to such property without any act to be done on the part of
the party against whom the judgment is rendered. [Act May 13, 1846; June
22, 1846; § 120; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1481.]
§ 1339. Court shall enforce its own decrees. The court shall cause its
judgments and decrees to be carried into execution ; and where the judgment
is for personal property, and it is shown by the pleadings and evidence and
the verdict, if any, that such property has an especial value to the plaintifff,
the court may award a special writ for the seizure and delivery of such prop
erty to the plaintifff, and the court may, in addition to the other relief granted
in such case, enforce its judgment by attachment, fine and imprisonment.
[Act May 11, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 17; 1st Leg. p. 200; P. D. 1420.]
§ 1340. Judgments of foreclosure of liens. Judgments for the fore
closure of mortgages and other liens shall be that the plaintifff recover his
debt, damages and costs, with a foreclosure of the plaintifff's lien on the prop
erty subject thereto, and (except in judgments against executors, administra
tors and guardians) that an order of sale shall issue to the sheriff or any
constable of the county where such property may be, directing him to seize
and sell the same as under execution, in satisfaction of the judgment; and if
the property can not be found, or if the proceeds of such sale be insufficient
to satisfy the judgment, then to make the money, or any balance thereof re
maining unpaid, out of any other property of the defendant, as in case of
ordinary executions. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, §119; 1st Leg.
p. 363; P. D. 1480.]
§ 1340a. Writ of possession awarded. Hereafter, when any order fore
closing a lien upon real estate is made in a suit having for its object the fore
closure of such lien, in any court having jurisdiction, such order shall have all
the force and effect of a writ of possession, as between the parties to such
suit of foreclosure, and any person claiming under the defendant to such suit
by any right acquired pending such suit ; and the court shall so direct in the
judgment providing for the issuance of such order, and the sheriff or other
officer executing such order of sale shall proceed by virtue of said order to
place the purchaser of the property sold under the same in possession thereof
within thirty davs after the day of sale. [Act of February 10, 1885. Took
effect June 30, 1885 ; 19th Leg. p. 10.]
§ 1341. Appeal from county court. Judgments on appeal or certiorari
from any county court sitting in probate shall be certified to such countv court,
for observance. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 60; 1st Leg. p. 363; P.
D. 1460.]
§ 1342. Appeal from justice's court. Judgments on appeal or certiorari
from any justice's court shall be enforced by the county court. See end of ch.
§ 1343. Against executors, etc. Where a recovery of money is had
against an executor, administrator or guardian, as such, the judgment shall
state that it is to be paid in the due course of administration, and no execution
shall issue on such judgment, but the same shall be certified to the countv
court, sitting in matters of probate, to be there enforced in accordance with
law. [Act May 13, 1S4G; June 22, 1846, § 118; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1479.]
§ 1344. acting independent of probate court. The preceding arti
cle shall not apply to judgments against an executor who has been appointed
and is acting under a will dispensing with the action of the county court in
reference to such estate; but such judgment shall be enforced against the
property of the testator in the hands of such executor, by execution, as in
other cases.
§ 1345. In suits by publication. Where service of process has been
made by publication, and no answer has been filed within the time prescribed
by law,' the court shall appoint an attorney to defend the suit, and judgment
shall be rendered as in other cases; but in every such case a statement of the
evidence, approved and signed by the judge, shall be filed with the papers of
the cause as part of the record thereof. [Act Mav 13, 1846; June 22. 1S46,
§ 128; 1st Leg. p. 363; act Nov. 6, 1866; Jan. 12, 1867; 11th Leg. p. 125; P.
D. 26, 1488.]
§ 1346. Against partners when all not sued. Where the suit is against
several partners jointly indebted upon contract, and the citation has been
served upon some of such partners, but not upon all, judgment may be rendered
therein against such partnership and against the partners actually served, but
no personal judgment or execution shall be awarded against those not served.
[Act Feb'y 5, 1858; July 5, 1858, § 2; 7th Leg. p. 110; P. .D. 1477.]
§ 1347. Confession of judgment. Any person indebted, or against whom
a cause of action exists, may without process appear, in person or oy attorney,
and confess judgment therefore in open court ; but in such case a petition shall
be filed and the justness of the debt or cause of action be sworn to by the
person in whose favor the judgment is confessed. [Act May 13, 1846 ; June
22, 1846, § 116; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1477.]
Aet. 1347a. Acceptance of service, etc., how made. The acceptance of
service and waiver of process, provided for in article 1240, and the entry of ap
pearance in open court as provided for in article 1241, or the confession of
judgment as provided for in article 1347, shall not in any action be authorized
by the contract or instrument of writing sued on, or any other instrument
executed prior to the institution of such suit, nor shall such acceptance or
waiver of service be made until after suit brought. All laws and parts of
laws in conflict herewith be and the same are herebv repealed. [Act of March
18, 1885; took effect June 30, 1885 ; 19th Leg. p. 33.] See note to art. 1241.
Aet. 1348. Confession of, by attorney. When the judgment is confessed
by attorney, the power of attorney shall be filed and a recital of the contents
of the same be made in the judgment. [Act Mav 13, 1S46; June 22, 184(i,
§116; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1477.]
Aet. 1349. Releases errors. Every judgment by confession duly made
shall operate as a release of all errors" in the record thereof, but such judg
ment may be impeached for fraud or other eauitable cause. [Act May 13,
1846; June 22, 1846, § 117; 1st Le<j. p. 363; P. D. 1478.]
Aet. 1350. Other judgments. Ihe court may render such other judgments
and in such form as may be authorized by law.
Aet. 1351. Remitter of excess in verdict. Any party in whose favor a
verdict has been rendered may in open court remit any part of such verdict,
and such remitter shall be noted on the docket and entered in the minutes, and
execution shall thereafter issue for the balance only of such judgment, after
deducting the amount remitted. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 133;
lLeg. p. 363; P. D. 52.]
§ 1352. in open court. Any person in whose favor a judgment
has been rendered may, in open court, remit any part of such judgment, and
such remitter shall be noted on the docket and entered in the minutes, and ex
ecution shall thereafter issue for the balance only of such judgment, after
deducting the amount remitted. [lb.]
§ 1353. in vacation. Any party may make such remitter in vaca
tion by executing and filing with the clerk a release in writing, signed by him
or by his attorney of record, and attested by the clerk with the seal of his
office. Such release shall constitute a part of the record of the cause, and any
execution thereafter issued shall be for the balance only of the judgment after
deducting the amount remitted. [lb.]
§ 1354. Mistakes corrected in open court. "Where there shall be a mis
take in the record of any judgment or decree, the judge may, in open court,
and after notice of the application therefore has been given to the parties in
terested in such judgment or decree, amend the same according to the truth
and justice of the case, and thereafter the execution shall conform to the judg
ment as amended. [Act May 11, 1846; June 26, 1846, § 13; 1st Leg. p. 200 j
P. D. 49.]
§ 1355. Misrecitals, etc., corrected. Where, in the record of any judg
ment or decree of any court, there shall be any mistake, miscalculation or
misrecital of any sum or sums of money, or of any name or names, and there
shall be among the records of the cause any verdict or instrument of writing,
whereby such judgment or decree may be safely amended, it shah be the duty
of the court in which such judgment or decree shall be rendered, and the judge
thereof, in vacation, on application of either party, to amend such judgment
or decree thereby, according to the truth and justice of the case; but the
opposite party shall have reasonable notice of the application for such amend
ment. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1840, § 132; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 51.]
§ 1356. Correction made in vacation to be certified. The judge making
such correction in vacation shall embody the same in a judgment, and shall
certify thereto and deliver the same to the clerk, who shall enter the same in
the minutes. Such judgment shall constitute a part of the record of the
cause, and any execution thereafter issued shall conform to the judgment as
corrected.
§ 133; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 52.]
§ 1358. To rulings taken, when. Whenever, in the progress of the
cause, either party is dissatisfied with any ruling, opinion or other action of
the court, he may except thereto at the time the same is made, or announced,
and at his request time shall be given to embodv such exception in a written
bilL [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 101; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 217.]
§ 1343; M. P. R'y Co. v.
Rountree, 2 App. C. C. § 387 ; McKay v. Overton, 65 T. 82 ; Cannon v. Cannon, 66 T. 682 ; Still
v. Focke, 66 T. 715.
§ 1359. Requisites of. No particular form of words shall be required
in a bill of exceptions, but the objection to the ruling or action of the court
shall be stated with such circumstances, or so much of the evidence as may be
necessary to explain it, and no more, and the whole as briefly as possible.
§ 1360. May refer to statement of facts. Where the statement of facts
contains all the evidence requisite to explain the bill of exceptions, it shall not
be necessary to set out such evidence in the bill of exceptions, but it shall be
sufficient to refer to the same as it appears in the statement of facts.
§ 1361. Regarded as excepted to. The ruling of the court in the giving,
refusing, or qualifying of instructions to the jury, shall be regarded as ex
cepted to in all cases. [Act Mav 13, 1S46; June 22, 1846, § 101; 1st Leg.
p. 363; P. D. 217.] — (1) W. U. Tel. Co. v. Edsall, 63 T. 66S.
§ 1362. Not necessary, when. Where the ruling or other action of the
court appears otherwise of record, no bill of exceptions shall be necessary to
reserve an exception thereto.
§ 1363. How reserved. It shall be the duty of the party taking any
bill of exceptions to reduce the same to writing, and present the same to the
judge for his allowance and signature during the term, and within ten dciys
after the conclusion of the trial.
§ 1364. Submitted to opposing counsel. It shall be the duty of the
judge to submit such bill of exceptions to the adverse party or his counsel, if
in attendance on the court, and if the same is found to be correct, it shall be
signed by the judge without delay and filed with the clerk during the term.
§ 573. As to duty of judge in preparing bill, see Franklin v. Tiernan, 62 T. 92.
§ 1365. If found incorrect. Should the judge find such bill of excep
tions to be incorrect, he shall suggest to the party or his counsel, who drew it,
such corrections as he may deem necessary therein, and if they are agreed to
he shall make such corrections and sign the same and file it as provided in the
preceding article. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 101; 1st Leg. p. 363;
P. D. 217.]
§ 1366. On disagreement, judge to make out. Should the party not
agree to such corrections, the judge shall return the bill of exceptions to him
with his refusal indorsed thereon, and shall make out and sign and file with
the clerk such a bill of exceptions as will in his opinion present the ruling of
the court in that behalf as it actually occurred.
§ 1367. Controverted bill of exceptions. Should the party be dissatis
fied with the bill of exceptions filed by the judge, as provided in the preced
ing article, he may, upon procuring the signatures of three respectable
bystanders, citizens of this state, attesting the correctness of the bill of ex
ceptions as presented by him, have the same filed as part of the record of the
cause; and the truth of the matter in reference thereto may be controverted
and maintained by affidavits, not exceeding five in number on each side, to be
filed with the papers of the cause, within ten days after the filing of such bill
of exceptions, and to be considered as a part of the record relating thereto.
[Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1S46, § 101-2; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 218.]
§ 1368. May be granted. New trials may be granted, and judgmentsmay
be set aside or arrested on motion for good cause, on such terms and con
ditions as the court shall direct. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 109;
1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1470.]
Aet. 1369. Motion for new trial. Every such motion shall be in writing
and signed by the party or his attorney, and shall specifiy the grounds upon
which it is founded ; and no ground, other than those specified, shall be heard
or considered. [lb. § 112; P. D. 1473.]
§ 109 ;
P. D. 1470.]
§ 112; P. D. 1473.]
Akt. 1372. Determined, when. All motions for new trials, in arrest of judg
ment, or to set aside a judgment, shall be determined at the term of the court
which such motion shall be made. [lb.]
§ 481.
§ 22.
§ 46.
§ 962 ; Marx v. Epstein,
App. C. C. § 1817.
§ 1373. Bill of review in suits by publication. In cases in which judg
ment has been rendered on service of process by publication, where the de
fendant has not appeared in person or by an attorney of his own selection, a
new trial may be granted by the court upon the application of the defendant
good cause shown, supported by affidavit, filed within two years after the
of such judgment, [lb. § 129; P. D. 1489.]
§ 1375. Executions, etc., not suspended, unless, etc. In the cases
mentioned in the two preceding articles, process on such judgment shall not
be suspended, unless the defendant or party applying therefore shall give bond,
with two or more good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the clerk, in
double the amount of the judgment, or value of the property adjudged, pay
able to the plaintifff in the judgment, conditioned that the part}7 will prosecute
his petition for new trial to effect, and will perform such judgment as may be
rendered by the court should its decision be against him. [Jo.]
§ 1376. Sale under such execution not avoided. Where in such case
as is mentioned in the three preceding articles, property has been sold under
the judgment and execution before the process was suspended, the defendant,
should lie defeat the plaintifff's action, shall not recover the property so sold,
but shall have judgment against the plaintifff in the judgment for the pro
ceeds of such sale. [lb.]
Abt. 1377. Agreed on by the parties. After the trial of any cause, either
party may make out a written statement of the facts given in evidence on the
trial, and submit the same to the opposite party, or his attorney, for inspection ;
if the parties, or their attorneys, agree upon such statement of facts, they shall
sign the same, and it shall then be submitted to the judge, who shall, if he
find it correct, approve and sign it, and the same shall oe filed with the clerk
during the term. [Act May 13, 1846; June -22, 1840, § 135; 1st Leg. p. 363; P.
D. 1490.]
§ 13 78. When the parties disagree. If the parties do not agree upon
such statement of facts, or if the judge do not approve or sign it, the parties
may submit their respective statements to the judge, who shall, from his own
knowledge, with the aid of such statements during the term, make out and
sign and rile with the clerk a correct statement of the facts proven on the trial,
and such statement shall constitute a part of the record. [/£.]
§ 824.
Aet. 1379. Made up and filed in vacation, when. The court may, by an
order entered upon the record during the term, authorize the statement of facts
to be made up, and signed and filed in vacation, at any time not exceeding ten
days after the adjournment of the term. [/J.]
§ 481.
§ 151 ; Wade v. Buford, 1 App. C. C. § 1334. And so,
when filed after expiration of period allowed by the order. Lanier v. Perryman, 59 T. 104.
§ 3.J
§ 1337, note (1). The refusal of an injunction in chambers does not authorize an appeal.
Gibson v. Templeton, 62 T. 555. See post, art. 1409. An appeal cannot be taken by a pur
chaser pendente lite (Ferris v. Struper, 59 T. 312.), unless he has intervened after judgment,
when he may appeal from a judgment prejudicial to himself. lb. ; Hughes v. Maddox,
6 T. 90.
Abt. 1381. From county court to court of appeals. An appeal or writ of
error may be taken to the court of appeals from every final judgment of the
county court rendered in civil causes of which the county court has original
jurisdiction. [Const, art. 5, § 3; Act Aug. 18, 1876, § 1; 15th Leg. p. 172.]
§ 1382. From judgments on appeal. An appeal or writ of error may
also be taken to the court of appeals from any final judgment of the county
court rendered on appeal or certiorari in civil cases taken from the justices'
courts, where the judgment or the amount in controversy exceeds one hundred
dollars. [Const, art. 5, § 16, 22.] lb.
§ 504; T. & P. R'y Co. v. Haney, 1
>p. C. C. § 121 ; H. & T. C. R'y
1 App. C. C. § 709.
§ 1383. In other cases. Appeals and writs of error may also be taken
to the court of appeals from judgments of the county court in such other civil
cases as are or may be provided by law.
§ 1099.
§ 1384. Definition. The party taking an appeal is called the " appel
lant," and the adverse party is called the " appellee.
§ 1385. Same. The party suing out a writ of error is called the " plaint
iff in error," and the adverse party is called the " defendant in error."
§ 1386. Same. The term " appellate court " includes the supreme court
or court of appeals having jurisdiction of a cause on appeal or writ of error.
The term " court below " includes the district or county court from which such
appeal or writ of error is taken.
§ 1387. Appeal taken, when and how. An appeal may, in cases where
an appeal is allowed, be taken during the term of the court at which the final
judgment in the cause is rendered, by the appellant's giving notice of appeal
in open court, which shall be noted on the docket and entered of record, and
by his filing with the clerk an appeal-bond, or affidavit in lieu thereof, as
hereinafter provided, within twentv days after the expiration of the term.
[Act March 16, 1848; August 1, 1848, § 19; 2 Leg. p. 106.]
§ 1388. Where no appeal bond required. In cases where the appellant
is not required by law to give bond on appeal, the appeal is perfected by the
notice provided tor in the preceding article.
§ 1389. Writ of error sued out, when. The writ of error may, in
cases where the same is allowed, be sued out at any time within two j'ears
after the final judgment was rendered, and not thereafter, except in the' case
of infants, married women, and persons of unsound mind, who shall have two
years after the removal of their respective disabilities within which to sue out
such writ. [Act May 13, 1816; June 22, 1846, § 142; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D.
1496.]
§ 1390. Petition. The party desiring to sue out a writ of error shall
file with the clerk of the court in which the judgment was rendered, a peti
tion in writing, signed by him or by his attorney, and addressed to silch clerk.
[lb. §140; P. D. 1495. j
§ 1391. Requisites of petition. The petition shall state the names and
residences of the parties adversely interested, shall describe the judgment
with sufficient certainty to identify it, and shall state that he desires to remove
the same to the supreme court or court of appeals, as the case may be, for
revision and correction ; and where the plaintifff in error desires the issuance
of a supersedeas, he shall state the facts which entitle him thereto, and pray
for the issuance thereof. [lb.]
§ 1302. Error bond. The plaintifff shall also, at the time of filing such
petition, file with the clerk a writ of error bond, or affidavit in lieu thereof,
as hereinafter provided. [lb. |
§ 1393. Citation in error. Upon the filing of the petition and bond
mentioned in the three preceding articles, it shall be the duty of the clerk
forthwith to issue a citation for the defendant in error, and if there be several
defendants, residing in different counties, one citation shall issue to each of
such counties. [Ib.'\
§ 1394. Requisites of. The style of such citation shall be " The State
of Texas," and it shall be dated and tested by the clerk as other writs, and
the date of its issuance shall be noted thereon. It shall be directed to the
sheriff or any constable of the county where the defendant is alleged to re
side, or be. and shall command him forthwith to summon the defendant to
appear and defend such writ before the supreme court, or court of appeals, as
the case may be, at the next term thereof, stating the time and place of hold
ing the same, according to the provisions of the law regulating the return of
appeals and writs of error from the county in which the judgment was ren
dered. It shall state the date of the filing of the petition in error, the names
of the parties according to such petition, the description of the judgment as
therein given, and that the writ of error, and supersedeas, if any, have been
granted. Such citation shall be made returnable within thirty days from the
issuance of the same. [lb. |
§ 1395. Service and return of. It shall be the duty of the sheriff or
constable receiving such citation to indorse the day and hour on which he re
ceived it, and to execute and return it forthwith. Service shall be made by
delivering to the defendant in error, and if more than one, then to each of
them in person, a true copy of sucli citation. The return of such officer shall
be indorsed on or attached" to the original writ, and shall state when and how
the same was served, and shall be signed by him officially. [lb.]
§ 1396. Return, when citation not served. The citation shall be re
turned within thirty days, and where the same has not been served the return
shall show the diligence used by the officer to execute the same, and the failure
to execute it, and where the defendant is to be found, so far as he has been
able to ascertain. [lb.]
§ 1397. Alias citation. If the citation is returned not executed the
clerk shall forthwith issue an alias or pluries citation, as the case may be,
which shall conform to the requisites prescribed for the issuance of citation in
the first instance, and shall, in addition, indicate how many previous citations
have been issued. [Ib.~]
§ 139S. Service on the attorney of record. If it appears from the al
legations in the papers of the cause that the party is a non-resident of the
state, or if it appears from the return of the sheriff or constable that the party
cannot be found in the county of his residence, the citation shall direct the
officer to summon the defendant by making service on his attorney of record,
if there be one. [lb.] i
§ 1399. Service in other modes. Service of the citation may also be
made in either of the modes provided in chapter six of this title, so far as the
same are applicable.
§ 1400. Cost boni on appeal or writ of error. The appellant or plaint
iff in error, as the case may be, shall execute a bond, with two or more good
and sullicient sureties, to be approved by the clerk, pavable to the appellee or
defendant in error, in a sum at least double the probable amount of the costs
of the suit of both the appellate court and the court below, to be fixed by the
clerk, conditioned that such appellant or plaintifff in error shall prosecute his
appeal or writ of error with effect, and shall pay all the costs which have ac
crued in the court below or which mav accrue in the appellate court. [Act
May 3, 1871, §1; 12th Leg. p. 74; P. I). 6180.]
§ 1401. Appeal by party unable to give cost bond. "Where the appel
lant or plaintifff in error is unable to pay the cost of appeal or give security
therefore, he shall nevertheless be entitled to prosecute his appeal ; but in order
to do so, he shall be required to make strict proof of his inability to pay the
costs, or any part thereof. Such proof shall be made before the county judge
of the county where such party resides, or before the court trying the case,
and shall consist of the affidavit of said party, stating his inability to pay the
costs, which affidavit may be contested by any officer of the court or party to
the suit; whereupon it shall be the duty of the court trying the case, if in ses
sion, or the county judge of the county in which the suit is pending, to hear
evidence and to determine the right of the party, under this act. of his appeal.
[Act of April 14, 1879; took effect July 24, 1S79; 16th Leg. 9u.j
The only difference between this and the repealed art. seems to be that the third word from
the end is " of" in the new and "to" in the old. Old art. was act May 3, 1871, p. 74, § 1 ; act
1879, ch. 81, p. 90; P. D. 6180.
§ 805; Kirk v.Ivey, 2 App. C. C. § 39. "That affiant is
unable to give bond for supersedeas, as required by law," insufficient. Sharp v. Allege, 1 App.
C. C. g 632.
§38.
§ 743; Young v. Bickley, 1 App. C. C. § 1073. And the defect is not
cured by waiver or consent of parties. Kirk v. Ivey, 2 App. C. C. § 37.
Akt. 1402. Appeal or writ of error perfected, when. "When the bond, or
affidavit in lieu thereof, provided for in the two preceding articles, has been
filed and the previous requirements of this chapter have been complied with,
the appeal or writ of error, as the case may be, shall be held to be perfected.
§ 1403. When appeal does not suspend execution. The bond, or affi
davit in lieu thereof, provided in the three preceding articles, shall not have
the effect to suspend the judgment, but execution shall issue thereon as if no
such appeal or writ of error had been taken.
§ 1404. Supersedeas bond. Should the appellant or plaintifff in error, as
the case may be, desire to suspend the execution of the judgment, he may do
so by giving instead of ibe bond, or affidavit in lieu thereof, mentioned in the
four preceding articles, oT in addition to such bond, a bond with two or more
good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the clerk, payable to the appellee
or defendant in error, in a sum at least double the amount of the judgment,
interest and costs, conditioned that such appellant or plaintifff in error shall
prosecute his appeal or writ of error with effect, and in case the judgment of
the appellate court shall be against him, that he shall perform its judgment,
sentence or decree, and pay all such damages as said court may award against
him. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 136; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1491.]
§ 14U3. Whore judgment is for land or other property. "Where the
judgment is for the recovery of land or other property, the bond shall be fur
ther conditioned that the appellant or plaintifff in error shall, in case the judg
ment is affirmed, pay to the appellee or defendant in error, the value of the
rent or hire of such property in any suit which may be brought therefore. [Jb.
§137; P. D. 1492.]
§ 1406. Judgment stayed and execution superseded. Upon the filing
of the bonds mentioned in the two preceding articles, the appeal or writ of
error shall be held to be perfected and the execution of the judgment shall be
stayed, and should execution have been issued thereon, the clerk shall forth
with issue a supersedeas. [lb. § 140 ; P. D. 1495.J
§ 1407. The state gives no bond. The state of Texas shall not be re
quired to give bond on any appeal or writ of error taken by it in any civil case.
§ 140S. Not required of executors, etc. Executors, administrators and
fuardians, appointed by the courts of this state, shall not be required to give
ond on any appeal or writ of error taken by them in their fiduciary capacity.
[Act March 16, 1848; Aug. 1, 1848, § 4; 2d"Leg. p: 106; P. D. 1503.]
§ 694, contra.
§ 1409. Executor, etc., may appeal. In case of the death of any party
entitled to an appeal or writ of error, the same may be taken by his executor,
administrator or heir.
§ 1410. Transcript. When an appeal or writ of error has been per
fected, the clerk of the court shall, upon the application of either party, make
out and deliver to him a transcript of the record of the cause. [Act May 13,
1846; June 22, 1846, § 139; 1st Leg. p. 303; P. D. 1494.]
§ 1411. what to contain. The transcript shall, except in the cases
hereinafter provided, contain a full and correct copy of all the proceedings
had in the cause. [/J.J
§ 1412, Citation and return omitted, when. If the pleadings or the
judgment show an appearance of the defendant, in person or by attorney, the
citation and returns shall not be copied into the transcript.
§ 1413. Omission of unimportant proceedings, when. The parties may,
by an agreement in writing, with the approval of the judge, direct the clerk
in making up the transcript for the appellate court to omit therefrom any
designated portion of the proceedings not deemed material to the disposition
of the cause in such appellate court, and in such case the transcript shall not
embrace such portions of the proceedings. [Act Feb. 5, 1858; July 5, 1858,
§ 12; 7th Leg. p. 110; P. D. 1506.]
§ 859.
§ 1414. Agreed statement of pleadings and proof. * The parties may,
without the necessity of setting out all the proceedings at length, agree upon
such a brief statement of the case and of the facts proven, with or without
copies of any part of the proceeding's as shall in their opinion enable the ap
pellate court to determine whether there has been any error in the judgment ;
and if the judge shall approve and sign such statement, the same shall be filed
among the papers of the cause and shall constitute a part of the record, and
on appeal or writ of error shall be copied into the transcript in lieu of such
proceedings themselves. [/&.]
§ 1415. Transcript must contain, what. The transcript shall, in all
cases, contain a copy of the final judgment, notice of appeal, petition for writ
of error and citation in error, with return of service thereon, bond on appeal
or writ of error, or affidavit in lieu thereof, and assignment of errors or such
of them as there may be, and also a copy from the fee book of all the costs
that have accrued in the cause. \_IbJ]
§ 1416. Clerk's certificate and indorsement. The clerk shall certify to
the correctness of the transcript, and sign the same officially with the seal of
the court attached. Such certificate shall state whether the same be a tran
script of all the proceedings in the cause, or the transcripts provided for in
§cles 1412, 1413 and 1414. The clerk shall indorse on the transcript the
dav on which it was demanded, and by whom, and the day on which it was
delivered, and to whom, and shall sign his name officially thereto. [Act May
13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 139; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1494.]
§ 1417. Case appealed to remain on docket. Where a cause shall be
removed by appeal or writ of error to the appellate court, the cause shall re
main, or be replaced on the docket to await the mandate of the appellate
court.
§ 1418. Procedings on return of mandate. Upon the return of the
mandate, if the judgment of the court below be reversed by the appellate
court, the cause shall stand for trial in its order on the docket.
§ 1419. Affirmance of judgment. If the judgment of the court below
be affirmed in the appellate court, the court below shall make such orders as
may be necessary to carry out the judgment of the appellate court, and the
cause shall be dropped from the docket.
§ 1420. Party responsible for costs; fees payable in advance. Each
party to any suit shall be responsible to the officers of the court for the costs
incurred by himself; and no sheriff or constable shall be compelled to execute
any process in civil cases coming from any county other than the one in which
he is an officer, unless the fees allowed him by law for the service of such pro
cess shall be paid in advance: Prodded, that when affidavit is filed, as pro
vided for in article 14:38 of this chapter, the clerk issuing the process snail
indorse thereon the words "pauper oath filed," and sign his name officially
below them, and the sheriff or constable in whose hands such process is placed
for service shall serve the same as in other cases. [Amendment April 2, July
4, 18S7; 20th Leg. p. 102.] For notes to article 1420. see end of chapter.
§ 1420a. Officers may demand payment. It shall be lawful for the
clerks of the district and county courts and justices of the peace to demand
payment of all costs due in each and every case pending in their respective
courts, up to the adjournment of each term of said courts. [Acts 1879, ch.
81, p. 90.]
§ 14205. Payment of, how enforced. Should any party, against whom
costs have been taxed under the provisions of this act, fail or refuse to pay the
same within ten days after demand for payment, it shall be lawful for the
clerk or justice of the peace to make out a certified copy of the bill of costs
then due, as herein provided for, and place the same in the hands of the sheriff
or constable for collection, and such certified bill of costs shall have the force
and effect of an execution.
Appeal not to prevent execution. The removal of a case by appeal shall
not prevent the district clerk, county clerk or justice of the peace from issuing
his execution for costs at the end of the term at which the appeal is taken.
[Acts 1879, ch. 81, p. 90.]
§ 1420c. Officers to levy for costs, when. It shall be lawful for the
sheriff or constable, upon demand and failure to pay said bill of costs, to levy
upon a sufficient amount of property of the person from whom said costs may
be due, to satisfy the same, and sell such property according to the law gov
erning sales under execution.
Provided, where such party is not a resident of the county where such snit
is pending, then payment of such costs may be demanded of his attorney of
record, and neither the clerk nor justice of the peace shall be allowed to charge
anv fee for making out such certified bill of costs.
S'o fees, when. Nor shall the sheriff or constable be allowed an}' fees for
collecting said costs unless he is compelled to make a levy ; and in case of levy
or sale, he shall charge and collect the same fees as are allowed for collecting
money under other executions. [Acts 1879, ch. 81, p. 90.J
§ 1421. Successful party to recover. The successful party to a suit
shall recover of his adversary all the costs expended or incurred therein, ex
cept where it is or may be otherwise provided by law. [lb. § 122; P. D. 1483.]
§ 804.
§ 1422. Taxes on law proceedings. All taxes imposed on law proceed
ings shall be included in the bill of costs. [lb. § 124; P. I). 1484.]
§ 1423. Fees restricted. There shall not be allowed in an-* cause the
fees of more than two witnesses to any one fact. [lb. § 127; P. t). 1487. ]
§ 1424. Costs of motions. On all motions the court may give or refuse
costs at its discretion, except where it is otherwise provided by law. [lb. § 121 ;
P. D. 1482.]
§ 1425. Cost where exception is sustained. "Where a pleading is ex
cepted to, if such exception be sustained, all the costs of such exception and
of the pleading adjudged to be insufficient shall be taxed against the partv
filing such insufficient pleadings. [lb. § 122, 123 ; P. D. 1483, 12.]
§ 1420. Where exception overruled. If such exception be overruled,
all costs of such exception shall be taxed against the partv taking the excep
tion, [lb.]
§ 1427. Costs of several suits. Where any plaintifff shall bring in the
same court several suits against the same defendant for causes of action which
should have been joined, ho shall recover the costs of one action only; and
the costs of the other actions shall be adjudged against him, unless sufficient
reasons appear to the court for instituting several actions. [lb. § 49 ; P. D.
1432.]
§ 1428. Where demand reduced by payments. Where the plaintifff's
demand is reduced by payment to an amount which would not have been
within the jurisdiction of the court, the defendant shall recover his costs.
[Act January 2, 1860; April 17, 1860, § 1; 8th Leg. p. 5; P. D. 3446.J
§ 1429. Costs in action of assault. In all civil actions for assault and
battery, slander and defamation of character, if the verdict or judgment shall
be for the plaintifff, but for a less sum than twentv dollars, the plaintifff shall
not recover his costs, but each party shall be taxed with the costs incurred bv
him in such suit. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 106; 1st Leg. p. 363;
P. D. 1467.]
§ 1430. Costs of new trials. The costs of all new trials may either
abide the event of the suit or may be taxed against the party to whom the
new trial is granted, as may be adjudged by the court at the time of granting
such new trial, [lb. §113; P. D. 1474.]
§ 1431. Where judgment is arrested. When the judgment is arrested
or the verdict set aside because of the insufficiency of the pleadings of the
party in whose favor the verdict or judgment was rendered, the costs thereof
shall be taxed against the party whose pleadings shall have been so adjudged
insufficient, [lb. § 114; P. D. 1475.]
§ 1432. On appeal and certiorari. In cases of appeal or certiorari
taken by the party against whom the judgment was rendered in the court be
low, if the judgment of the court above be against him, but for a less amount,
such party shall recover the costs of the court above, but shall be adjudged
to pay the costs of the court below; if the judgment be against him for the
same or a greater amount than in the court below, the adverse party shall re
cover the costs of both courts. [xVct Aug. 13, lbTO, p. 87, § 12; P. i). t>34i). ,
§ 246; Phillips v. Atkins, 1 App. C. C. § 293; I. & G. N. II.
R. (Jo. v. Johnson, 1 App. C. C. § 354; Handel v. Kramer, 1 App. C. C. § 828; Anderson v.
Gailbreath, 1 App. C. C. § 928. See 3 App. C. C. § 325.
§ 1433. The same. In cases of appeal or certiorari taken by the party
in whose favor the judgment was rendered in the court below, if the judg
ment of the court above be in his favor for a greater amount, such party shall
recover the costs of both courts ; if the judgment be in his favor, but for the
same or a less amount than in the court below, he shall recover the costs of
the court below and pay the costs of the court above. [IbJ]
§ 1434. Court may adjudge costs. The court may, for good cause, to
be stated on the record, adjudge the costs otherwise than as provided in the
preceding articles of this chapter.
§ 1435. Clerk may require security for costs. The clerk may require
from the plaintifff in a suit security for costs before issuing any process therein,
but he shall file the petition and enter the same properly on the docket. [Act
March 20, 1848, § 23; 2d Leg. p. 184; P. D. 3833.]
§ 1436. Same. The plaintifff in any civil suit may, at any time before
final judgment, upon motion of the defendant or any officer or the court in
terested in the costs accruing in such suit, be ruled to give security for the
costs ; and if such rule be entered against the plaintifff and he fail to comply
therewith on or before the first day of the next term of the court, the suit
shall be dismissed. [Act March 16, 1848 ; Aug. 1, 1848, § 1 ; 2d Leg. p. 106 ; P.
D. 1500.]
§ 483.
§ 1437. Judgment on cost bond. All bonds given as security for costs
shall authorize judgment against all the obligors in such bond for the said
costs, to be entered in the final judgment of the cause. [11. § 2.]
§ 1438. Affidavit of inability to give. A party, who is required to give
§rity for costs, may file with the clerk an affidavit that he is too poor to
pay the costs of court, and is unable to give security therefore, and it shall
thereupon be the duty of the clerk to issue process and to perform all other
services required of him in the same manner as if the security had been given ;
provided, the clerk or justice of the peace shall have the right to contest, by
proof or otherwise, the inability of the party to pay costs, or his inability to
give security for the same, said contest to be tried by the judge or justice of
the peace at the next term after the filing of the contest. [Act May 13, 1846;
June 22, 1846, § 8; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1429.]
§ 1439. No security of executors. Executors, administrators and guard
ians appointed by the courts of this state, shall not be required to give secu
rity for costs in any suit brought by them in their fiduciary character. [Act
March 16, 1848; Aug. 1, 1848, § 4; 2d Leg. p. 106; P. D. 1503.]
§1440. Not of state. The state shall not in any case be required to give
§rity for costs.
§ 1441. May be required of interveners. The provisions of this chap
ter relating to security of costs by the plaintifff shall also apply to an inter
vener, and to a defendant who seeks a judgment against the plaintifff on a
counterclaim after the plaintifff shall have discontinued his suit under the pro
visions of this title relating to discontinuance.
Abt. 1442. May be secured by other bonds. Where the costs are secured
by the provisions of an attachment or other bond filed by the party required
to give security for costs, no further security shall be required.
§ 1443. Process, requisites of. The style of all writs and process shall
be " The State of Texas," and unless otherwise specially provided by law,
every such writ and process shall be directed to the sheriff or any constable
of the proper county ; shall be made returnable on the first day of the next
term of the court after the issuance thereof ; and shall be dated and tested
by the clerk with the seal of the court impressed thereon, and the date of its
issuance shall be noted on the same. [Const, art. 5, § 12; act Nov. 12, 1866,
1; 11th Leg. p. 199; act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 10; 1st Leg. p. 363;
. D. 1431.]
§ 1444. Subpoenas. Subpoenas shall be issued without the seal of the
court, and may be made returnable forthwith, or on any day for which the
trial of the cause may be set. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 10; 1st
Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1431.]
§ 1445. When paper considered filed. No paper shall be considered as
filed in the proceedings of any cause, unless the clerk shall have indorsed
thereon the day on which it was filed, and have signed his name officially
thereto. [lb. § 35; P. D. 1445.]
§ 4;
1st Leg. p. 200; P. D. 1407.]
§ 1447. Vouchers, etc., repealed. All vouchers, views, essoins, and also
trials bv wager of battle and wager of law, shall stand repealed. [Act May
13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 107; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1468.]
§ 1448. New trials granted. New trials may be granted as well when
the damages are manifestly too small as when they are too large, [lb. § 111 ;
P. D. 1472.]
§ 1449. Several counts, some good and others bad. Where there are
several counts in the petition, and entire damages are given, the verdict or
judgment, as the case may be, shall be good, notwithstanding one or more of
such counts may be defective, [lb. § 105; P. D. 146U.]
§ 1450. Suits consolidated, when. Whenever several suits may be pend
ing in the same court, by the same plaintifff, against the same defendant, for
causes of action which may be joined, or where several suits are pending in
the same court, by the same plaintifff, against several defendants, which may
be joined, the court in which the same are pending may, in its discretion, order
such suits to be consolidated.
§ 1811 ; T. & P. R. Co. v. Hays, 2 App. C. C. § 390. Whether
suits should be consolidated or not is left to the discretion of the trial court. Young v. Gray.
65 T. 99.
§ 828.
When judgments have been rendered in a justice's court, in several suits between the same
parties, they cannot be consolidated and removed to the county court by certiorari. G. H. &
S. A. R R. Co. v. Ware, 2 App. C. C. § 357.
§ 222. Setting an order aside is not reversible error, un
less the party appealing has suffered injury therefrom. Young v. Gray, 65 T. 99.
§ 1451. Officers failing, etc., punished. Every clerk, sheriff, constable,
or other officer, neglecting or refusing to perform any duty required of him
under the provisions of this title, shall, in addition to the punishment pre
scribed in the Penal Code, be punished as for a contempt of court, and shall also
be liable to damages at the suit of any person injured, [lb. §20; P. D. 1436.]
MOTIONS.
§ 1452. Motion docket. The clerk shall keep a motion docket in which
he shall enter everv motion filed in his court, the number of the suit in which
it is made, if it relates to a suit pending, the names of the parties and their
attorneys, with a brief statement of the nature of the motion. [lb. § 53 ; P.
D. 1453.]
§ 1453. Service of motion, how made. Whenever in the commence
ment or progress of any suit it shall be necessary to serve any notice on any
party to such suit, such notice may be served either by an officer authorized
bv law to serve original process of the court in which suit is brought or may
be pending, or by any person who would be a competent witness upon the
trial of such suit; every such notice may be served in like manner as an orig
inal writ, either on the party or his attorney of record; and the return of such
notice, when made by an officer, or when made by any other person, and veri
fied by the affidavit of such person, shall be received as evidence of the fact
of service, subject to be repelled by contrary proof. lb. § 96; P. D. 1463.]
§ 1454. In pending suits. ^Notice of motions in a suit pending is given
by the filing of a motion and entry thereof in the motion docket during the
term.
§ 1455. Motions disposed of, when. All motions relating to a suit pend
ing, which do not go to the merits of the case, may be disposed of at any
time before the trial of the cause. [lb. § 54; P. D. 1454.]
§ 1456. Notice of motion not in pending suit. Where a motion does
not relate to a pending suit, aud where the time of service is not elsewhere
prescribed, the adverse party shall be entitled to three davs' notice of the
motion. [Act May 11, 1S46; June 22, 1846, § 5; 1st Leg. p. 200; P. D. 1408.]
§ 1457. Disposed of, when. All motions, not relating to a suit pending,
shall be taken up and disposed of in their order as other suits are required to
be. [Act May 13, 1846; June 22, 1846, § 55; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 1455.]
DEPOSIT OF MONET, ETC., IN COURT.
§ 1458. Custody of money deposited. Whenever, during the progress
of any cause, anv money, debt, scrip, instrument of writing or other article
shall be paid or deposited in court to abide the result of any legal proceedings,
the officer having custody thereof shall seal up the identical money or other
§cle received by him in a secure package, and deposit it in some safe or
bank vault, keeping it always accessible and subject to the control of the
court; and he shall also keep in his office, aud as part of the records thereof,
in a well bound book, a correct statement showing each and every item of
money and property so received by him, on what account received, and what
disposition has been made of the same. [Act May 19, 1876; Nov. 19, 1876,
§ 1 ; 15th Leg. p. 7.]
§ 1459. Officer shall deliver funds to his successor. On the expiration
of his term of office, such officer shall turn over to his successor all such trust
funds and other property, and the record aforesaid, and shall take his receipt
therefore, [lb. § 2.]
§ 1460. Not to exempt from liabilities, etc. The provisions of articles
1458 and 1459 shall not exempt any officer or his sureties from liability on his
official bond, for any neglect or other default, in regard to the funds therein
mentioned. [lb. § 5.]
472
§ 1461. Receivers appointed, when.— A receiver may be appointed by
any judge of a court of competent jurisdiction in this state, in trie following
cases:
1. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of property, or
by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his claim, or between part
ners or others jointly owning or interested in any property or fund, on the ap
plication of the plaintifff or any party whose right to or interest in the property
or fund or the proceeds thereof is probable, and where it is shown that the
property or fund is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured.
2. In" an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of his mortgage and sale
of the mortgaged property, when it appears that the mortgaged property is
in danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured, or that the condition
of the mortgage has not been performed, and the property is probably insuf
ficient to discharge the mortgage debt.
3. In cases where a corporation has been dissolved or is insolvent, or in
imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights.
4. In all other cases where receivers have heretofore been appointed by
the usages of the court of equity. [Act April 2. July 4, 1887; 20th Leg. p. 119.
This act repeals arts. 1461-1470 of the Revised Statutes. The repealed articles
relate to matters of practice and are omitted.]
§ 1462. Person interested cannot be appointed. No party, attorney,
or person interested in an action shall be appointed receiver therein, nor shall
any person be appointed receiver in any case where the property lies within
this state, unless he is a bona fids citizen of the state of Texas and qualified to
vote. [Sec. 2 of the act of April 2, 1887. Ante.]
§ 1463. Oath and bond of receiver. When a receiver is appointed, he
shall, before he enters upon his duties, be sworn to perform them faithfully,
and shall execute a bond, with three or more good and sufficient sureties, to be
approved by the court appointing him, in such sum as the court shall see
proper to fix, conditioned that he will faithfully discharge all of the duties of
receiver in the action (naming it) and obey the orders of the court therein.
[Sec. 3 of the act of April 2, 1887. Ante.]
§ 1464. Powers of the receiver. The receiver shall have power, under
the control of the court, to bring and defend actions in his own name as re
ceiver, to take charge and keep possession of the property, to receive rents,
collect, compound for, compromise demands, make transfers, and generally to
do such acts respecting the property as the court may authorize. [Sec. 4 of
the act of April 2, 1687. Ante.]
§ 1465. Investment of funds. The funds in the hands of a receiver may
be invested upon interest by order of the court, but no such order shall be
made except upon consent of all of the parties to the action. [Sec. 5 of the
act of April 2, 1887. Ante.J
§ 1466. Application of money by receiver. All monies that come into
the hands of a receiver as such receiver shall be applied first to the payment
of all costs and expenses of the suit in which he was appointed, and the ex
penses of operating and managing the property, including all materials and
supplies procured by him therefore, and all liabilities incurred by him in such
operation and management ; and all judgments recovered against a receiver
during his receivership, or lor wages of employees, or work done, or materials
furnished, while he is operating or managing the road, and all judgments recov
ered against the person or persons or corporations, in suits brought before the
appointment of a receiver in the action, shall be a lien on the funds in his
hands as receiver, but shall affect him only in his trust capacity, and not indi
vidually. [Sec. 6 of the act of April 2, 1887. Ante.]
§ 1467. Deposit of railroad funds, made how. When a line of a railroad
operated by a receiver lies wholly within this state, all money which comes
into the hands of the receiver, whether from operating the road or otherwise,
shall be keDt and deposited in such place within this suite as the court may
direct, until properly disbursed; but if any portion of the road lies in another
state the receiver shall be required to deposit in this state at least such share
of the funds in his hands as is proportioned to the value of the property of the
company within this state. [Sec. 7 of the act of April 2, 1887. Ante.]
§ 1468. Snits by and against receiver, brought how. When anv prop
erty of any kind within the limits of this state has been placed, by order of
court, in the hands of a receiver, who has taken charge of such property, such
receiver may in his official capacity sue or be sued in any court of this state
having jurisdiction of the cause of action, without first having obtained leave
of the court appointing such receiver to bring said suit, and if a judgment is
recovered against said receiver it shall be the duty of the court to order said
judgment paid out of any funds in the hands of said receiver as such receiver.
[Sec. 8 of the act of April 2, 1887. Ante.]
§ 1469. Venue of suits against receiver. Actions may be brought
against the receiver of the property of any person where said person resides.
Actions may be brought against receivers of a corporation in the county where
the principal office of said corporation may be located, and against receivers
of railroad companies in any county through or into which the road is con
structed, and service of summons may be had upon the receiver, or upon the
general or division superintendent of the road, or upon any agent of said re
ceiver who resides in the county in which the suit is brought. [Sec. 9 of the
act of April 2, 1SS7. Ante.]
§ 1470. Master in chancery, when and how appointed. The court shall,
in every case of the appointment of receiver, also,after his qualifying, appoint
a master in chancery, who shall be a citizen of this state, and not an attorney
for either party to the action, nor related to either party, who shall perform
all of the duties required of him by the court, and shall be under orders of the
court, and have such power as a master of chancery has in a court of equity.
[Sec. 10 of the act of April 2, 1S87. Ante.]
§ 1470a. Inventory, when and how returned. The receiver,, as soon
after his appointment as possible, shall return to the court appointing him a
true and correct inventory of all property received by him as such receiver.
[Sec. 11 of the act of April 2, 1887. Ante.]
§ 2, act March 3, 1887; 49th Cong. 2d Session, p. 552.]
§ 14705. Jurisdiction of court to appoint a receiver. When a person
resides in this state and a receiver is applied for, or if the property sought to
be placed in the hands of a receiver is situated within the limits of this state,
no court other than one within the limits of this state shall have power to ap
point any receiver of said property. [Sec. 12 of the act of April 2, 1887.
Ante.]
§ 1470c. Tenue of suit for appointment of receiver. If the property
sought to be placed in the hands of a receiver is a corporation whose property
lies within this state, or partly within this state, then the action to have a re
ceiver appointed shall be brought in this state in the county where the prin
cipal office of said corporation is located. [Sec. 13 of the act of April 2, 1881
Ante.]
§ 1470rf. Payment of floating debts provided for, when. "When a re
ceiver of a corporation has, under the order of the court, made improvements
upon the property of said corporation, and has also, under the order of the court
appointing him, purchased rolling stock, machinery, and made other improve
ments whereby the value of the property of said corporation has been increased,
op has extended such road, or acquired any property in connection with said
road, and has paid for same out of the current receipts of the corporation that
came into his hands as receiver,' then, if there be any floating debts against
said corporation, said corporation shall be made to contribute to the floating
indebtedness to the full value of the money so spent by said receiver as afore
said ; and if there are any liens of any kind upon the property of said corpora
tion in the hands of such receiver, and said property is sold under the order of
the court, and said liens foreclosed, then it shall be and is hereby made the
duty of the coiirt appointing such receiver, if there be any unpaid debts or
judgments, or claims against the corporation itself, to detain in the hands of
the clerk of the court money to the full value of the improvements made by
said receiver of said property out of the proceeds of the sale of the property
sold, and pay the same over to any person or persons who has or may have a
claim, debt or judgment against said corporation; and the court in ordering
the sale of the property shall require sufhcient cash money to be paid in at
date of sale to cover the full value of the improvements so made by said re
ceiver out of the current funds received by him from the property while
receiver. [Sec. 14 of the act of April 2, 1887. Ante.]
§ 1470<?. Judgments, etc., paid when. All judgments, claims, or causes
of action when determined, existing against any corporation at the time of the
appointment of a receiver, shall be paid out of the earnings of such corpora
tion while in the hands of the receiver, to the exclusion of mortgage action ;
and the same shall be a lien on such earnings. [Sec. 15 of the act of April 2,
1887. Ante.]
§ 147§/. Receivership of a corporation closed, when. No corporation
shall be administered in any court for a longer period than three years from
the date of such appointment; and within three years such court shall wind
up the affairs of such corporation, unless prevented by appeal of litigation.
[Sec. 16 of the act of April 2, 1887. Ante.]
§ 147(ty. Application for receiver, by whom made. No receiver shall
ever be appointed of any joint stock, incorporated company, or of any copart
nership or private person, on the petition of such joint stock, incorporated
company, partnership or person : Provided, that any stockholder or stock
holders of such joint stock or incorporated company may have his or their
action against such company, and may have a receiver appointed as in ordi
nary cases: And provided further, that nothing herein shall prevent a
member of any copartnership from having a receiver appointed whenever a
cause of action arises between the copartners. TSec. 17 of the act of April 2,
1887. Ante.]
§ 1470A. Conflicting laws repealed. That all laws and parts of laws
in conflict with any of the provisions of this act be and the same are hereby
repealed. [Sec. 18 of the act of April 2, 1887. Ante.]
§ 1470a. Rules of equity apply to proceedings. In all matters relat
ing to the appointment of receivers, and to their powers, duties and liabilities,
and to the powers of the court in relation thereto, the rules of equity shall
govern whenever the same are not inconsistent with the provisions of this act
and the general laws of the state. [Sec. 19 of the act of April 2, 1887. Ante.]
APPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS.
§ 1471. Anditor appointed, when. Whenever, in any suit, it shall ap
pear that an investigation of accounts or examination of vouchers is necessary
for the purposes of justice between the parties, the court shall appoint an
auditor or auditors to state the accounts between the parties and to make re
port thereof to the court as soon as may be. [Act May 13, 1846 ; June 22,
1846, § 97; 1st Leg. p. 363; P. D. 3760.]
§ 1473. Shall be admitted in evidence, bat, etc. The report of the
auditor shall be admitted in evidence, but may be contradicted by evidence
from either party, where exceptions to such report, or of any. items thereof,
shall have been filed before the trial. [IbJ]
§ 1; 3d Leg. p. 160; P. D. 4969.]
§ 1476. Motion, requisites of. Such motion shall be in writing and
signed by the party or his attorney, and shall be verified by affidavit. It shall
state the loss or destruction of such record or papers, and shall be accompanied
by certified copies of the originals, if thevcan be had, and if not, then substan
tial copies thereof as near as may be. (lb. § 2 ; P. D. 4970.]
Aet. 1477. If substitutes agreed to. If the adverse party admit the cor
rectness of such copies, and the court be satisfied that they are correct copies
in substance of the originals, an order shall be made substituting such copies
for the originals.
Aet. 1478. If not agreed to. If their correctness be not admitted, or if the
court do not find them to be correct, the parties shall submit their respective
statements to the judge, and he shall hear proof as to the contents of such lost
records and papers, and correct copies thereof shall be made up under the
direction of the judge.
Aet. 1479. Adverse party may supply. The adverse party may, in the
same proceedings, supply any other portions of such records and papers desired
by him.
Abt. 1480. Parties may agree on brief statement, etc. The parties may,
by consent in writing, with the approval of the judge, agree on a brief state
ment of the matters contained in such lost records and papers, and the court
may by an order substitute such statement for the lost originals.
Akt. 1481. Substituted copies. Such substituted copies, or brief statement
of their contents, as the case may be, made up under the preceding articles of
this subdivision, shall be filed with the clerk, and shall constitute a part of the
record of the cause, and shall have all the force and effect of the originals.
[Act to adopt and establish R. 0. S. passed Feb. 21, 1879.]
§ 1482. Judge shall be appointed. There shall be appointed by
the governor, by and with the advice and consent of the senate, a criminal
district judge of the criminal district court for the district composed of the
counties of Galveston and Harris. [Act July 23, 1870; 12 Leg. S. S. p.
37; P. D. 6140.
§ 1483. His term of office. Said judge shall hold his office for the
term of two years and until his successor is qualified. [Act July 23, 1870 ;
12 Leg. S. S. p. 37; Const. Art. 16, § 3.]
§ 1484. Shall possess certain qualifications. No person shall
be appointed judge of said court who does not possess the following qualifica
tions : -,
1. He must be at least twenty-five years of age.
2. He must be a citizen of the United States.
3. He shall have been a practicing attorney or judge of a court in this state
for the period of four years.
4. He shall have resided in said district for two years next before his ap
pointment. [Const. Art. 5, § 7.]
§ 1485. Shall reside in his district. Said judge shall reside in
his district during his term of office.
§ 1486. May be removed from office, how. Said judge may be
removed from office for the same causes and in the manner provided by law
for the removal from office of a district judge. [Act July 23, 1870; 12 Leg.
S. S. p. 37; P.D. 6142.]
§ 1487. May exchange or alternate with any district judge.
Snid judge may exchange or alternate with any district judge in all criminal
matters, as provided by law in the case of district judges. [Act May 18, 1871 ;
12 Leg. p. 94; P.D. 6149.]
§ 1488. Governor shall appoint clerks, etc. There shall be
appointed by the governor a clerk of said court for each of said counties, who
shall hold his office for the term of two years and until his successor is qual
ified. [Act July 23, 1870 ; 12 Leg. S. S. p. 37; P. D. 6143.]
§ 1489. Clerk shall give bond. The clerk 6o appointed shall,
before entering upon the duties of his office, enter into bond in the sum often
thousand dollars, payable to the State of Texas, with two or more good and
sufficient sureties, conditioned as the bonds of the clerks of the district court,
to be approved by the judge of said criminal district court. [Act July 23,
1870; 12 Leg. S. S. p. 37; P. D. 6143.]
§ 1490. Shall take oath of office. The said clerk shall also
take and subscribe the oath of office prescribed by the constitution of the
state. [Act July 23, 1870 ; 12 Leg. S. S. p. 37 ; P. D. 6143.]
§ 1491. Bond and oath shall be recorded. The bond and
oath required by the two preceding articles shall be deposited and recorded in
the office of the clerk of the county court of the county for which the clerk of
said criminal district court has been appointed. [Act July 23, 1870; 12 Leg.
S. S. p. 37; P. D. 6143.]
§ 1492. Duties and powers of clerks. The duties of the clerks
of said criminal district court, in all matters appertaining to said court, shall
be the same as the duties prescribed by law for clerks of the district court,
and they shall .also in said matters have the same powers as are confered by
law upon clerks of the district court. [Act July 23, 1870; 12 Leg. S. S. p.
37, § 9; P. D. 6143.]
§ 1493. Fees of clerks. Clerks of the crimimal district court shall
receive the same fees as are prescribed by law for clerks of the district and
county court for the same services. [Act July 23, 1870 ; 12 Leg. S. S. p. 37,
§ 9; P. D. 6143.]
§ 1494. Salary of clerks. In addition to the fees provided for in
the preceding article, said clerks shall receive a salary of one thousand dollars
each per annum,, to be paid by the counties for which they are appointed
respectively. [Act July 23, 1870; 12 Leg. S. S. p. 37; P. D. 6143.]
§ 1495. Vacancy in office of clerk, how filled. When a
vacancy occurs in the office of clerk of the criminal district court, the governor
shall fill the same by appointment, and the person appointed shall hold the
office for the unexpired term, and until his successor is qualified, and shall
enter into bond and take the oath of office as heretofore prescribed in this chapter. [Act July 23, 1870; 12 Leg. S. S. p. 37; P. D. 6143.]
§ 1496. Original jurisdiction. The criminal district court shall
have original and exclusive jurisdiction of all cases of felony and misde
meanor in the counties of Galveston and Harris, of which the district and
county courts have original and exclusive jurisdiction under the law. [Const.
§ 5, § 1, 16; Act July 23, 1870; 12 Leg. S. S. ; P. D. 6135.]
§ 1497. Appellate jurisdiction. The said court shall have exclu
sive appellate jurisdiction over all criminal cases tried and determined by jus
tices of the peace, mayors and recorders, in the said counties of Galveston
and Harris, under the same rules and regulations provided by law for appeals
from justices of the peace, mayors and recorders to the county court in crim
inal cases. [Act May 18, 1871 ; 12 Leg. p. 94, § 3.]
§ 1498. May grant habeas corpus, etc. The judge of said court
shall have power to grant the writ of habeas corpus, mandamus, and all writs
necessary to enforce the jurisdiction of his court, under the same rules and
regulations which govern district judges.
§ 1499. Jurisdiction over cases transferred to it. The said
court shall have jurisdiction over all criminal cases heretofore transferred by
law from other courts to said criminal district court,- as fully in all respects as
if said cases had been commenced in said court.
§ 1500. Jurisdiction over bail-bonds, etc. The said court shall
have jurisdiction over all bail-bonds and recognizances taken in proceedings
had before said court, or that may be returned to said court from other courts,
and may enter forfeitures thereon, and final judgment, and enforce the col
lection of the same in the same maimer as is provided by law for the dis
trict court.
CH. 4.— MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
§
1501.
1502.
1503.
1504.
Seal of the court and its use.
Terras of the court.
Kules of practice, pleading and evi
dence.
Selection, etc., of juries.
§
1505.
1506.
1507.
150S.
Procedure.
Sheriffs shall attend upon the court.
Same power as district court.
Appeals from.
§ 1501. Seal of the court and its use. The said criminal dis
trict court in each of said counties of Galveston and Harris shall have a seal
similar to the seal of the district court, with the words "Criminal District
Court of County" engraved thereon, an impression of which seal shall
be attached to all writs and other process except subpoenas issuing from said
court, and shall be used in the authentication of all official acts of the clerks
of said court. [Act July 23, 1870 ; 12 Leg. S. S. p. 37 ; P. D. 6137.]
§ 1502. Terms of the court. Said judge shall hold a term of said
court in the city of Galveston, county of Galveston, on the first Mondays in
the months of January, March, May, July and NoVember, and in the city of
Houston, county of Harris, on the first Mondays in the months of February,
April, June, October and December of each year, and at such other times as
such judge may order and appoint. The terms of said courts may continue
four weeks, unless the business be sooner disposed of. [Act July 23, 1870 ;
12 Leg. S. S. p. 37 ; P. D. 6138.]
§ 1503. Rules of practice, pleading and evidence. The prac
tice in the said court shall be conducted according to the laws governing the
practice of the district court, and the rules of pleading and evidence in the
district courts shall govern. [Act July 23, 1870; 12 Leg. S. S. p. 37;
P. D. 6139.]
§ 1504. Selection, etc., of juries. All laws regulating the selec
tion, summoning and empaneling of grand and petit juries in the district court
shall govern the criminal district court so far as the same may be applicable.
[Act July 23, 1870; 12 Leg. S. S. p. 37, § 11; P. D. 6-145.]
§ 1505. Procedure. All the rules of criminal procedure governing
the district court shall apply to and govern said criminal district court.
§ 1506. Sheriffs shall attend upon the court. The sheriffs of
said counties of Galveston and Harris shall attend upon said court for their
respective counties, and shall receive the same fees for their services as they
are entitled to by law for the same services in the district court. [Act July
23, 1870 ; 12 Leg. S. S. p. 37; P. D. 6146.]
§ 1507. Same power as district court. In all matters over
which said criminal court has jurisdiction it shall have the same power as is
conferred by law upon the district court, and shall be governed by the same
rules in the exercise of such power.
§ 1508. Appeals from. Appeals and writs of error may be pros
ecuted from said criminal district court to the supreme court or court of ap
peals, in the same manner and form as from the district court in like cases.
§ 1509. Election and term of office of county commissioners.
Each county shall be divided into four commissioner precincts, in each of
which precincts there shall he elected by the qualified voters thereof one county
commissioner, who shall hold his office for two years, and until his successor is
qualified. [Const. Art. 5, § 18; Act July 22, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 51, § 3.]
§ 1510. Conrt composed of ■whom and the presiding officer
thereof. The said commissioners, together with the county judge, shall
compose the commissioners* court, and the county judge when present shall be
the presiding officer of said court. [Const. Art. 5, § 18; Act July 22, 1876;
15 Leg. p. 51'.]
§ 1511. Three members constitute a quorum. Any three
members of the said court, including the county judge, shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of any business except that of levying a county
tax. [Act July 22, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 51.]
§ 1512. Oath and bond of commissioners. Before entering
upon the duties of his office the county judge and each commissioner shall take
the oath of office prescribed by the constitution, and shall also take an oath
that he will not be directly or indirectly interested in any contract with or
claim against the county in which he resides, except such warrants as may
issue.to him as fees of office, which oath shall be in writing, and taken before
such [some] officer authorized to administer oaths, and, together with the cer
tificate of the officer who administered the same, shall be filed and recorded in
the office of the clerk of the county court in a book to be provided for that
purpose,* and each commissioner shall execute a bond, with two or more good
and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the judge of the county court of
his county, in the sum of three thousand dollars, payable to the treasurer of
his county, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of his
office. [Amendments March 26; July, 1887; 20 Leg. p. 58.]
§ 1513. Vacancy in office of commissioner, how filled.
In case of vacancy in the office of commissioner, the county judge shall ap
point some suitable person living in the precinct where such vacancy occurs,
to serve as commissioner for such precinct until the next general election.
[Act July 22, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 53.]
§ 1514. Certain powers of the court specified. The said courts
shall have power and it shall be their duty—
1. To lay off their respective counties into precincts, not less than four nor
more than eight, for the election of justices of the peace and constables, and
shall fix the times and places of holding the various justices' courts in their
counties, and shall establish places in such precincts where elections shall be
held.
2. To establish public ferries whenever the public interest may require.
3. To lay out and establish, change and discontinue public roads and high
ways.
4. To build bridges and keep the same in repair.
5. To appoint road overseers and apportion hands.
6. To exercise general control and superintendence overall roads, highways,
ferries and bridges in their counties.
7. To provide and keep in repair court-houses, jails and all necessary public
buildings.
8. To audit and settle all accounts against the county and direct their
payment.
9. To provide for the support of paupers, and such idiots and lunatics as
cannot be admitted into the lunatic asylum, residents of their count}', who
are unable to support themselves.
10. To provide for the burial of paupers.
11. To punish contempts by fine not to exceed twenty-five dollars, or by
imprisonment not to exceed twenty-four hours, and in case of fine the party
may be held in custody until the fine is paid.
12. To issue all such notices, citations, writs and process as may be neces
sary for the proper execution of the powers and duties imposed upon such
court, and to enforce its jurisdiction. [Const. Art. 5, § 18; Act July 22,
1870 ; 15 Leg. p. 51.]
§ 198.
§ 1515. Power to levy tax. Said court shall have power to levy
and collect a tax for county purposes, upon all subjects of taxation in their
respective counties on which a tax may be levied by the state, but shall not levy
more than one-half of the state tax in their respective counties for one year,
for county purposes, except for the payment of debts incurred prior to April
18, 1876, and for the erection and repair of public buildings, under such lim
itations and with such restrictions as may be prescribed by law and the
constitution of this state. [Const. Art. 7, § 9; Act July 22, 1876; 15 Leg.
p. 51. See, ante, Title 24.]
§ 1515a. Power to levy a building tax. The county commis
sioners' court of any county in this state where it may become necessary to
construct, or to complete court houses and jails, or to complete payment for
construction of same, be and they are hereby authorized and empowered to
levy and collect an annual ad valorem tax, not to exceed fifty cents on the one
hundred dollars in any one year in said counties, to raise a fund to erect or
complete, or complete payment for construction of court houses and jails in
said counties. [Act March 11, 1879 ; 16 Leg. p. 33. See, ante, Title 24.]
§- 1516. Certain tax shall not exceed, etc. No tax levied for
the purpose of paying debts incurred prior to the eighteenth day of April, A.
D. 1876, shall exceed two and one-half mills on the dollar, and no tax levied
for the erection or repair of public buildings shall exceed two and one-half
nulls on the dollar for any one year. [Act July 22, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 51, § 5.]
For legislation conferring authority to fund indebtedness, issue bonds, etc., see Title 24.
By the amendment of § 9, Art. 8, of tlie Constitution, ratified Aug. 14, 1S83, there is no limita
tion ou the tax for the payment of debts contracted prior to the adoption of the amendment.
§ 1517. Tax shall not be levied, except, etc. No county tax
shall be levied except at a regular term of the court and when all the members
of said court are present. [Act July 22, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 51.]
§ 1517a. § 1. Commissioners' court sits as a board of equali
zation. The county commissioners' courts of the several counties of this state
shall convene and sit as a board of equalization, on the second Monday in June
of each year, or as soon thereafter as practicable before the first day of July, to
receive all the assessment lists or books of the assessors of their counties for
their inspection, correction, equalization and approval. [Acts March 22;
July 24, 1879; 16 Leg. p. 44.]
§ 2. Board shall cause property to be assessed at market value.
The board of equalization of each county shall cause the assessor to bring be
fore them at the time specified in section one of this act, all the assessment
lists or books of the assessor of their county, for their inspection, to see that
each and every person has rendered his property at a fair market value as is
contemplated by law, and said board shall have power to send for persons and
papers, swear and qualify persons who testify, to ascertain'the value of such
property; and if they are satisfied it is too high, they shall lower it to its
proper value, and if too low they shall raise the value of such assessments to
their proper value.
§ 3. Board shall correct errors in assessment, when. The board
of equalization shall have power to correct any errors in the assessment of
property at any time before the tax is paid on said property.
§ 4. Valuation of lands shall be equalized. The board of equal
ization of each county in this state, shall equalize as nearly as possible—
1st. All the improved lands by their class to wit : first, second and third
class. The first class shall embrace the better quality of lands and improve
ments. The second class shall embrace the second quality of lands and
improvements. The third class shall embrace lands of but small or inferior
improvements.
2d. The unimproved lands shall embrace first, second and third class, and
all other property made as nearly uniform as possible.
§ 5. Assessment lists shall be approved. That the board of
equalization, after they have inspected and equalized as near as possible, shall
approve said lists or books, and return them to the assessor for making up the
general rolls as are required by law, when said board shall meet again aud
approve said rolls, if they find tbem correct*
§ 6. Assessments examined and corrected how. The assessor of
taxes shall furnish the board of equalization, on the first Monday in June of
each year, or a3 soon thereafter as practicable, a certified list of names of all
persons who either refuse to swear or to qualify, or to sign the oath or affir
mation as required by law, together with the assessment of said person's
property made by him through other information ; and the board of equalization
shall examine, equalize and correct assessments so made by the assessor, and
when so revised, equalized and corrected, the same shall be approved.
§ 7. Assessments raised, when and how. In all cases where the
board of equalization shall find it their duty to raise the assessment of any
person's property, it shall be their duty to order the county clerk to give the
person written notice, who rendered the property, that they desire to raise the
value of property rendered by him. It shall be the duty of the board of
equalization to cause the county clerk to give ten days notice before their
meeting by publication in some newspaper published in the count}', but in case
there be none published in the county, then by posting a written or printed
notice in each justices' precinct, one of which must beat the court house door.
§ 1518. Power to fill certain vacancies. The said court shall
have power to fill vacancies in the following named county offices, viz: County
judge, clerk of the county court, sheriff, county attorney, county treasurer,
county surveyor, county hide inspector, assessor of taxes, collector of taxes,
justices of the peace and constables.
§ 1519. How vacancy shall be filled, etc. Such vacancies shall
be filled by a majority vote of the members of said court present and voting,
and the person chosen to fill any vacancy shall hold the office until the next
general election.
§ 1520. Shall send indigent sick to hospital, when. In case
there is a regular established public hospital in the county, the commissioners'
court shall provide for sending the indigent sick of the county to such hos
pital ; and if more* than one such hospital exist in the county, the indigent
patient shall have the right to select which one of them he shall be sent to.
[Act July 22, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 51.]
§ 1520a. May co-operate with counties in sanitary regula
tions. The municipal authorities of towns and cities, and commissioners'
courts of the counties wherein such towns and cities are situated, may co-oper
ate with each other in making such improvements connected with said towns,
cities and counties, as may be deemed by said authorities and courts necessary
to improve the public health, aud to promote efficient sanitary regulations;
and, by mutual arrangements, they may provide for the construction of said im
provements and the payment therefore. [Act July 4, 1879; 16 Leg. S.S.p. 9.]
§ 1521. May provide building, etc., for county court. Said
courts may, when necessary, provide buildings, rooms or apartments at the
county seats, other than the court-house, for holding the sessions of the county
courts. [Act Aug. 19, 187G ; 15 Leg. p. 211.]
§ 1522. Other powers, etc., of the court. Said courts shall have
all sueh other powers and jurisdiction, and shall perforin all such other duties
as are now or may hereafter be prescribed by law.
See as to their duties In the organization of new counties, Art. 667, 9; establishing boun
dary lines. Art. 686; removing county gents, Art. 697; in elections, Art. 1755; regulating irri
gation, Art. 29S2; establishing work-house, etc., Art. 35S5.
§ 1523. Duty as to school lands. It shall be the duty of the
commissioners' court to provide for the protection, preservation and disposi
tion of all lands heretofore granted, or that may hereafter be granted to the
county for education or schools. [Const. Art. 7, § 6.]
As to the duties of commissioners' court to report the occupation of school lands, see,
post. Title 81, Chapter 2.
§ 1524. Shall provide seals for district and county courts.
Said court shall provide the seals required by law for the district and county
courts of their respective counties.
CH. 3.— TERMS AND MINUTES OF THE COURT.
§
1525. Regular terms of the court.
1526. Special terms of the court.
§
1527. Minutes of the court.
152S. Minutes of proceedings in vacation.
§ 1525. Regular terms of the court. The regular terms of the
commissioners' courts shall commence and be held at the court-house of
their respective counties on the second Mondays in February, May, August
and November in every year and may continue in session one week. [Act
July 22, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 53.]
§ 1526. Special terms of the court. Special terms of said courts
maybe called by the county judge or any three of the county commissioners,
and may continue in session until the business ia completed. [Act July 22, 1876;
15 Leg. p. 53, §13.]
ft
§ 1527. Minutes of the court. The court shall cause to be pro
cured and kept in the clerk's office suitable books in which shall be recorded
the proceedings of each term of the court, which record shall be read over and
signed by the county judge or the member of the court presiding, at the end of
each term and attested by the clerk. [Act July 22, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 53, § 11.]
§ 1528. Minutes of proceedings in vacation. The clerk shall
also record all the proceedings of said court authorized to take place in
the vacation between the terms, and such record, so made in vacation, shall
be read over and signed on the first day of the term of said court next after
such proceedings took place. [Act July 22, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 53, § 11.]
t
CH. 4.— MISCELLANEOUS PEOVTSIONS.
§
1520. Seal of the court.
1530. The clerk of the court and his duties.
§
1531. Clerk shall issue process.
1532. Process shall be executed, when, etc.
§ 1529. Seal of the court. Each commissioners' court shall have a
seal, whereon shall be engraved a star with five points, the words "Commis
sioners' Court, county, Texas" (the blank to be filled with the name of
the county), which seal shall be kept in the office of the clerk of said court,
and shall be used in the authentication of all official acts of said court, or of
the presiding officer or clerk of said court, in all cases where a seal maybe
necessary for the authentication of any of said acts. [Act July 22, 1876; 15
Leg. p. 53, § 7.] .
§ 1530. The clerk of the court and his duties. The clerk of
the county court shall be ex officio clerk of the commissioners' court, and it
shall be the duty of such clerk to attend upon each term of said commis
sioners' court; to preserve and keep in his possession all books, papers,
records and effects belonging thereto ; to issue all notices, writs and process
necessary for the proper execution of the powers and duties imposed upon
such commissioners' court, and to perform all such other duties as may be
prescribed by law. [Act July 22, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 53, § 8.]
§ 1531. Clerk shall issue process. AH notices, citations, writs
and process issued from said court shall run in the name of "The State of
Texas." and shall be directed to the sheriff or any constable of a county, and
shall be dated and signed officially by the clerk, and shall have the seal of the
court impressed thereon, except subpoenas, which need not be under seal.
[Act July 22, 1876 ; 15 Leg. p. 53, § 9.]
§ 1532. Process shall be executed, when. All process of said
court, when not otherwise directed by law, shall be executed at least five days
before the return day thereof, which return day shall be specified in the pro
cess. Subpoenas for witnesses may be executed and returned forthwith, when
necessary. [Act July 22, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 53, § 9.]
§ 1533. Justices, election and term of 'office. There shall
be elected by the qualified voters of each justice's precinct in the several coun
ties of this state, at each bienuial election, one justice of the peace, who shall
hold his office for two years, and until his successor shall be elected and
qualified. He shall enter into bond, payable to the county judge and his
successors in office, in the sum of one thousand dollars, conditioned that he
will faithfully and impartially discharge and perforin all the duties required of
him by law, and that he will promptly pay over to the party entitled to receive
it, all monies that may come into his hands during his term of office. This
law shall apply to all justices of the peace appointed by the county commissioners'
court. [Amendments March 31; June 30, 1885; 19 Leg. p. 90.]
The original Article did not require a bond. See Const. Art. 5, § 18; Act Aug. 17, 1876;
15 Leg. p. 154.
§ 1533a. A justice of the peace appointed for an unorgan
ized county. The county commissioners' courts of the several counties in
this state to which unorganized counties are attached for judicial purposes,
shall have and are hereby given power to appoint a justice of the peace and a
constable for each of the unorganized counties attached to said county for
judicial purposes, in accordance with the provisions of the law now in force
authorizing such appointments in organized counties. [Act April 11, 1879;
16 Leg. p. 89. Ante, Art. 653a.]
§ 15336. Additional justices appointed, how. Whenever, in
any unorgauized county of the State of Texas a necessity may exist for the
appointment of more than one justice of the peace and constable for such
county, and such fact is made known and set forth in a petition signed by one
hundred qualified voters of said county, addressed to the county commission
ers' court of the organized county to which such unorganized county is attached
for judicial purposes, asking the appointment of such officers, it shall be the
duty of such commissioners' court to lay off and designate as many justices'
precincts in such unorganized county as may be necessary, not exceeding four,
and such commissioners' court shall have and are hereby empowered to appoint
one justice of the peace, and one constable for each justice's precinct in such
unorganized county, in accordance with the provisions of the law now in force
authorizing such appointments in organized counties ; and such justices' pre
cincts shall be and they are hereby constituted election precincts in such unor
ganized county. [Acts March 31; July 1, 1885; 19 Leg. p. 88. Ante,
§ 653e.] * «
§ 1534. Two justices in cities. Where in any such justices' precinct
there may be a city of eight thousand or more inhabitants, there shall be elected
two justices of the peace. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1535. Commission ami qualification. Each justice of the peace
shall be commissioned as justice of the peace of his precinct and ex officio
notary public of his county, and shall take the oath of office prescribed in the
constitution, and give the bond elsewhere prescribed for notaries public.
[Const. Art. 4, § 20; Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1536. Vacancy, how filled. Where any vacancy shall occur in
the office of a justice of the peace, the same shall be filled by some person
appointed by the commissioners' court of the county, who shall hold his office
until the next general election, and until his successor shall bo elected and
qualified. [Const. Art. 6, § 28; Act Aug. 17, 1876, 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1537. Nearest justice to hold court, when. During the period
of such vacancy, or whenever the justice of the peace in any precinct shall be
absent, or unable or unwilling to perform the duties of his office, the nearest
justice of the peace in the county may perform the duties of the office until
such vacancy shall be filled, or such absence, inability or unwillingness shall
cease. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1538. Justice disqualified, when. No justice of the peace shall
sit in any cause where he may be interested, or where he may be related to
either party within the third degree of consanguinity or affinity. [Act Aug.
17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§
1539.
1540.
1541.
1542.
CH. 2.— POWERS AND JURISDICTION.
Jurisdiction in civil cases.
To enter forfeiture of bail-bonds.
To punish contempts.
To issue writs of garnishment, etc.
§
1543. Other jurisdiction conferred by law.
1544. No jurisdiction in certain cases.
1545. To proceed with unfinished business.
§ 1539. Jurisdiction in civil cases. The courts «>f justices of the
peace shall, in addition to the powers and duties elsewhere provided for, have
and exercise original jurisdiction in civil matters of all cases where the amount
hi controversy is two hundred dollars or less, exclusive of interest, of which
exclusive original jurisdiction is not given to the district or county courts, and
of all crises of forcible entry and detainer. They shall also have power to
foreclose mortgages and enforce liens on personal property, where the amount
in controversy is within their jurisdiction, as above provided. [Const. Art.
5, § 19; Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.
§ 697 ; Williams
v. Ball, 52 T. 603 ; Long v. Brenneman, 59 T. 210.
§ 93.
§ 1039. A writ of garnishment may be issued from a justice's court, upon a judg
ment rendered therein for an amount greater than $200. City of Austin v. Erwin, 2 App. C.
C. §290.
§ 159.
§ 1162.
§ 163.
§ 1540. Forfeitures of bail-bonds. Justices of the peace shall
also have power to enter forfeitures of bail-bonds given for the appearance of
parties or witnesses in their courts, and to render judgments thereon, without
regard to the amount of such bond. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1541. Contempts. They shall have power to punish any party
guilty of a contempt of court by fine not to exceed twenty-five dollars and
by imprisonment not exceeding one day. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg.
p. 154.]
§ 1542. To issue writs of garnishment, etc. They shall have
the same power in cases within their jurisdiction as judges and clerks of the
district and county courts have to issue writs of attachment, garnishment and
sequestration. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1543. Other jurisdiction. They shall also have and exercise
jurisdiction over all other matters not hereinbefore enumerated that are or may
be cognizable before a justice of the peace under any law of this state. [Act
Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.
§ 1544. No jurisdiction in certain cases. Justices' courts have
no jurisdiction of suits in behalf of the state to recover- penalties, forfeitures
and escheats, of suits for divorce, of suits to recover damages for slander or
defamation of character, suits for the trial of title to land, or of suits for the
enforcement of liens on land. [Const. Art. 5, § 8.]
§ 1545. Unfinished business. Every justice of the peace shall
have power and it shall be his duty to proceed with all unfinished business of
his office in like manner as if such business had been originally commenced
before him. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
CH. 3. —TERMS OF THE COURT.
§
1546. Monthly terms.
1517. Times and places of holding.
§
1548. May hold from day to day, etc
1549. Failure of term.
§ 1546. Monthly terms. Each justice of the peace shall hold a term
of his court for civil business once in each month, and may transact such bus
iness out of term time as is or may be authorized by law. [Act Aug. 14,
1870; 12 Leg. S. S. p. 13;' P. D. 6357.]
§ 1547. Regular terms prescribed by commissioners' court.
Justices of the peace shall hold the regular terms of their courts at their re
spective offices at such times as may be prescribed by the commissioners' court
of the county. [Amendment Feb. 17, 1881; 17 Leg. p. 10.]
The repealed law read as follows : The justice or justices residing at the county seats, shall
hold theregularterms of their courts at theirofflces ou the last Mouday of each month, and all
the other justices shall hold the regular terms of their courts at their respective offices at such
time as may be prescribed by the commissioners' court of the county.
§ 1548. Court from day to day, etc. The justices may hold the
courts from day to day uutil all business shall be disposed of, or they may
adjourn the court or the trial of any case to a particular day. [Act Aug. 17,
1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1549. Failure of term. If from any cause the regular term of a
justice's court shall not be opened on the day fixed therefore by law, the court
shall be considered as adjourned until the next regular term thereof. [Act
Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1550. Justice's docket. It shall be the duty of every justice of
the peace to keep a civil docket in which he shall- enter—
1. The title of all suits commenced before him.
2. The time when the first process was issued against the defendant, when
returnable, and the nature thereof.
3. The time when the parties, or either of them, appeared before him,
either with or without citation.
4. A brief statement of the nature of the plaintifff's demand or claim, and
the amount claimed, and a brief statement of the nature of the defense made
by the defendant, if any.
5. Every adjournment, stating at whose request and to what time.
6. The time when the trial was had, stating whether the same was by a
jury or by the justice.
7. The verdict of the jury, if any.
8. The judgment rendered by the justice, and the time of rendering the
same.
9. All applications for setting aside judgment or granting new trials, and
the order of the justice thereon, with the date thereof.
10. The time of issuing execution, to whom directed and delivered, and
the amount of debt, damages and costs, and when any execution is returned
he shall note such return on said docket, with the manner in which it was
executed.
11. All stays and appeals that may be taken, and the time when taken,
the amount of the bond and the names of the sureties. [Act Aug. 17, 1876 ;
15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1551. Fee book. He shall also keep a fee book in which shall be
taxed all costs accruing in every suit commenced before him. [Act Aug. 17,
1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1552. Other books. He shall also keep such other dockets, books
and records as may be required by law.
§ 1553. Custody of books, papers, etc. Each justice of the
peace shall arrange and safely keep the dockets, books and papers transmitted
to him by his predecessors, and all papers filed in any case in his court, sub
ject at all reasonable times to the inspection of any party interested therein.
§ 1554. To be delivered to successor. When a justice of the
peace shall vacate his office it shall be his duty to deliver up to his successor
all dockets, books and papers pertaining to his said office ; and it shall be the
duty of any person having possession of dockets, books or papers belonging
to the office of any justice of the peace, to deliver the same over to such
justice on demand. [Act Aug. 17, 1876 ; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1555. May be enforced. Should any person, having such dock
ets, books or papers, refuse to deliver the same on such demand, he may,
upon motion, be attached and imprisoned by order of the county judge in term
time or in vacation, until he shall make such delivery ; but such motion shall he
supported by affidavit, and three days' notice thereof shall be given to the
party against whom such motion is made. [Act Aug. 17, 1876 ; 15 Leg.
p. 154.]
§ 1556. County of defendant's residence, except, etc. Every
suit in the court of a justice of the peace shall be commenced in the county
and precinct in which the defendant, or one or more of several defendants re
sides, except in the following cases, and such other cases as are or may be
provided by law: [See note 1.]
1. Cases of forcible entry and detainer must be brought in the precinct
where the premises, or a part thereof, are situated.
2. Suits against executors, administrators and guardians as such, must be
brought in the county in which such administration or guardianship is pend
ing, and in the precinct in which the couuty seat is situated. [See note 2.]
3. Suits against counties must be brought in such county and in the pre
cinct in which the county seat is situated.
In the following cases the suit may, at the plaintifff's option, be brought
either in the county and precinct of the defendant's residence, or in that pro
vided in each exception : [See note 3,]
4. Suits upon a contract in writing promising performance at any par
ticular place, may be brought in the county and precinct in which such con
tract was to be performed. [See note 4.]
5. Suits for the recovery of rents may be brought in the county and pre
cinct in which the rented premises, or a part thereof, are situated. [See
note 5.1
6. Suits for damages for torts may be brought in the county and precinct
in which the injury was indicted. [See note 6.]
7. Suits against transient persons may be brought in any county and pre
cinct where such defendant is to be found.
8. Suits against non-residents of the state, or persons whose residence is
unknown, may be brought in the county and precinct where the plaintifff
resides.
9. Suits for the recovery of personal property may be brought in any
county and precinct in which the property may be.
10. Suits against private corporations, associations and joint stock com
panies may be brought in any county and precinct in which the cause of ac
tion, or a part thereof arose, or in wHich such corporation, association or com
pany has an agency or representative, or in which its principal office is
situated.
11. Suits against railroad and canal companies, or the owners of any line
of mail stages or coaches, for any injury to person or property upon the road,
canal or line of stages or coaches of the defendant, or upon any liability as a
carrier, may be brought in any precinct through which the road, canal or line
of stages or coaches may pass, or in any precinct where the route of such rail
road, canal, stages or coaches may begin or terminate.
12. Suits against fire, marine or inland insurance companies may also be
brought in any county and precinct in which any part of the insured property
was situated; and suits against life and accident insurance companies or
associations may also be brought in the county and precinct in which the per
sons insured, or any of them, resided at the time of such death or injury.
13. Suits against the owners of a steamboat or other vessel may be
brought in any county or precinct where such steamboat or vessel may be
found, or where the cause of action arose or the liability was contracted or
accrued. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 803. A plea of privilege is waived by failure to plead it at the proper
time. Osborne v. Burnett, 1 App. C. C. § 125. A plea of privilege to be sued in a particular
justice's precinct cannot be plead for the first time on appeal. G., H. & S. A. R. R.
Co. v. McTiegue, 1 App. C. C. § 460. A plea of privilege must by direct allegation
negative every fact which would support the jurisdiction of the court in which suit
is brought. Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Wetting, 1 App. C. C. §801.
§ 353.
§1281.
§ 1557. Residence of single man. The residence of a single
man is where he boards. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1558. Two justices in one precinct. Where in any precinct
there may be more than one justice of the peace, the suit may be brought
before either of them. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1559. Two justices in one city or town. Where in any incor
porated city or town there may be more than one justice of the peace, suit may
be brought before either of them. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1560. When justice is disqualified. If there be no justice of
the peace qualified to try the suit in the proper precinct, the suit may be com
menced before the nearest justice of the peace of the county who is not disqual
ified to try the same. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1561. Change of venue on affidavit. If any party to a suit
before any justice of the peace shall make an affidavit, supported by the
affidavit of two other credible persons, citizens of the county, to the effect
that they have good reason to believe and do believe that such party can not
have a fair and impartial trial before such justice or in such justice's precinct,
it shall be the duty of such justice to transfer such suit to the court of the
nearest justice of the peace within the county not subject to the same or some
other disqualification. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1562. By consent. The venue may also be changed to the court of
any other justice of the peace of the county upon the written consent of the
parties or their attorneys, filed with the papers of the cause.
§ 1563. When justice is disqualified. If a justice of the peace
shall be disqualified from sitting in any civil case pending before him, he shall
transfer the same to the nearest justice of the peace of the county who is not
disqualified to try it. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1563a. "Nearest justice" defined. By the term "nearest jus
tice," as used in this chapter, is meant the justice whose place of holding his
court is nearest to that of the justice before whom the proceeding is pending
or should have been brought.
§ 1564. Order of transfer. The order of transfer in such cases
shall state the cause of the transfer, and the name of the court to which the
transfer is made, and shall require the parties and witnesses to appear before
such court in its next ensuing term.
§ 1565. Duty of justice in case of transfer. When such order
of transfer is made it shall be the duty of the justice who made the order
immediately to make out a true and correct transcript of all the entries made
on his docket in the cause, and certify thereto officially, and to transmit the
same, with a certified copy of the bill of costs taken from his fee book, and
the original papers in the cause, to the justice of the peace of the precinct to
which the same has been transferred.
CH. 6. — SECURITY FOR COSTS.
§
1566. Rules of district courts, etc., apply as
to security for costs.
§1566. Rules of district courts apply. The rules governing the
district and county courts in reference to requiring security for costs, and the
effect of the rule for costs, and the penalty for non-compliance therewith,
shall also govern the justices' courts, in so far as they can be applied to pro
ceedings therein. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
See, ante, Articles 1420-1442.
CH. 7. — PARTIES.
§
1567. Same rules as to parties as in district
courts, etc.
§ 1567. Same as in district courts. The rules relating to parties
in the district and county courts shall also govern the justices' courts, in so far
as they can be applied thereto.
§ 1568. Requisites of. Every writ or process from the courts of
justices of the peace shall be issued by the justice, and shall be in writing and
signed by him officially. The style thereof shall be "The State of Texas."
It shall, except where otherwise specially provided by law, be directed to the
sheriff or any constable of the proper county, and shall be made returnable to
some regular term of such court, and the date of its issuance shall be noted
thereon. [Act Aug. 17, 1876 ; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1569. .Citation to be issued, when. When a claim or demand
is lodged with a justice of the peace for suit, it shall be his duty to issue
forthwith a writ or citation for the defendant, and if there be several defend
ants, residing in differnt counties, one citation shall be issued to each of such
counties. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1570. Shall contain, what. The citation shall be directed to the
sheriff or any constable of the county where the defendant is represented to
be, and shall, in addition to the requirements of article 1568, require the offi
cer to summon the defendant to appear and answer the plaintifff's suit, at some
regular term of the court, stating the time and place of holding the same. It
shall state the names of all the parties to the suit, and the nature of the plain
tiff's demand. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1571. Justice may depute person to serve process. The
justice of the peace may, in case of an emergency, depute any person of good
character to serve any process, and the person so deputed shall for such pur
pose have all the authority of a sheriff or constable; but in every such case
the justice shall indorse on the process a statement- in writing, signed by him
officially, to the effect that he has deputed such person to serve such process ;
and such person shall also take and subscribe an affidavit, to be indorsed on or
attached to the process, to the effect that he will, to the best of his ability,
execute the same according to law. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1572. Issuance and service of process. All the rules govern
ing the issuance and service, and the return of citations, issued out of the dis
trict and county courts, and providing for acceptance of service, and entering
appearance, shall, except where otherwise provided by law, govern also the
justices' courts in so far as they can be applied to the proceedings of said
court. [Act Aug. 17, 1876 ; 15 Leg. p. 154. See, ante, Articles 1213-1245.]
§ 1573. Oral, but entered on docket. The pleadings in the jus
tices' courts shall be oral, except where otherwise specially provided; but a
brief statement thereof shall be noted on the docket. [Act Aug. 17,1876;
15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 765. It is from the transcript and papers which
on appeal are required to be sent up by a justice of the peace (Rev. Stats. Art. 1640) that the
district court can determine what the cause of action presented and tried before the magis
trate was. Though the pleadings may have been oral, the statute requires that a brief state
ment showing their character shall be noted on the magistrate's docket. (Rev. Stats. Art.
1573.) Maass v. Solinsky, 67 T. 290.
This article does not dispense with the necessity of forming, in some way, the issues to be
tried, a brief statement of which should be noted on the magistrate's docket; thereforee, when
the record shows affirmatively that there were no pleadings made by the defendant in a suit
for a debt before a justice of the peace, it was error on appeal to hear evidence of payment.
It seems that the record in the supreme court would be sufficient to show the pleadings, if
there appeared therein the brief statement required by the statute, either from the transcript
oSthe justice's docket or that of the district court, or by entry on the minutes of the latter
cOHrt, either independent of or in the judgment itself. Moore v. Jordan, 67 T. 394.
§ 239;
T. & P. B. R. Co. v. Wright, 2 App. C. C. § 339; T. & P. R. R. Co. v. Miller, 1 App. C. C. §
■26-2; Whitley v. Jackson, 1 App. C. C. §576; Henry v. Blasco, 1 App. C. C. §765; Kerr v.
Murrell, 1 App. C. C. § 891 ; Mensing v. Ayres, 2 App. C. C. § 562 ; Brunswig v. Kramer, 2 App.
C. C. § 804. The rules applicable to formal written pleadings in the district and county
courts have no application in proceedings in the justice's court. Formal pleadings are
dispensed with. Where there is no exception to the claim or account of the plaintifff, evidence
will not be excluded on account of the generality of the statements therein. I. & G. N. Ry.
Co. v. Philips, 63 T. 690. In a suit against a railroad company, it is not necessary that the
plaintifff should allege that defendant "was a corporation duly incorporated." T. & P. R. R.
Co. v. Miller, 1 App. C. C. § 262. In a suit against an indorser upon a note, it is not
necessary that the citation should state that the principal maker of the note was dead,
insolvent or a non-resident of the state. Kerr v. Murrell, 1 App. C. C. § 891.
§ 1574. Certain pleadings to be in writing and under oath.
An answer or other pleadings, setting up any of the following matters, shall
be in writing and signed by the party or his attorney, and verified by
affidavit :
1. That the suit is not commenced in the proper county or precinct. [See
note 1.]
2. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue.
3. That the plaintifff is not entitled to recover in the capacity in which he
sues.
4. That there is another suit pending in this state between the same parties
for the same cause of action or counterclaim.
5. That theVe is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant.
6. That the plaintifffs or defendants, suing or sued as partners, are not
partners as alleged.
7. That the plaintifff or defendant, suing or sued as a corporation, is not
a corporation as alleged.
8. That a written instrument, purporting to be signed by him and relied on
by the other party, was not executed by him or by his authority.
9. That the indorsement or assignment of a written instrument, pleaded by
the adverse party, was not executed by the party by whom it purports to
have been executed or by his authority.
10. That a written instrument, pleaded by the adverse party, is without con
sideration, or that the consideration of the same has failed in whole or in part.
11. That an account pleaded by the adverse party and duly verified by affi
davit as provided in Art. 2266, is not just, and in such case the answer shall
set forth the items and particulars which are unjust. [See note 2.]
12. That the contract sued upon is usurious.
§ 576.
§ 1575. Pleadings amendable. The pleadings may be amended
in accordance with the rules governing amendments of pleadings in the dis
trict and county courts so far as the same are applicable.
See, ante, Articles 1192-4.
§
1576.
Cause may be continued, etc.
CH. 10.— CONTINUANCE.
§ 1576. Cause may be continued, etc. Any justice of the peace
may for good cause shown, supported by affidavit, continue any suit pending
before him to the next regular term of his court, or postpone the same to
some other day of the term. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
See, ante, Articles 1276-1279.
§ 318.
CH. 11. — APPEARANCE AND TRIAL.
§
1577. Appearance day.
157S. Proceedings where defendant fails to
appear.
1579. Appearance noted.
1580. Jury trial may be demanded.
1581. Court shall try case, when.
1582. Call of the non-jury docket.
§
1583. Plaintiff failing to appear, may be non
suited.
1584. Proceedings, evidence, etc., to con
form to rules governing district
courts, etc.
1585. Judgment on trial without jury.
§ 1577. Appearance day. The first day of each term of the jus
tice's court after the return of process duly served in any cause shall be ap
pearance day; but where the service was made by publication, the first day of
the second term after such publication shall be appearance day. [Act Aug.
17,1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1578. If defendant fails to appear. If the defendant, who has
been duly served with a citation, shall fail to appear at or before 10 o'clock a.
m., on appearance day, the justice shall proceed in the following manner :
1. If the plaintifff's cause of action be liquidated and proved by an instru
ment of writing purporting to have been executed by the defendant, or be
upon an open account duly verified by affidavit , the justice shall, whether the
plaintifff appear or not, render judgment in bis favor against the defendant
for the amount of such written obligation or sworn account, after deducting
all credits indorsed thereon.
2. If the plaintifff's cause of action is not so liquidated, and the plaintifff ap
pear in person or by agent or attorney, the justice shall proceed to hear the
testimony, and if it shall appear therefrom that the plaintifff is entitled to re
cover, judgment shall be rendered against the defendant for such amount as
the testimony shows the plaintifff entitled to ; otherwise judgment shall be
rendered for the defendant. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1579. Appearance noted. If the defendant appear, the same
shall be noted on the docket and the cause shall stand for trial in its order. ,
§ 1580. Jnry trial. Either party may demand a jury as hereinafter
provided. [Const. Art. 1, § 15.]
§ 1581. Conrt shall try ease, when. If neither party shall demand
and be entitled to a jury trial, the cause shall be tried by the justice without
a jury. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1582. Call of the non-jury docket. The docket of cases to be
tried by the justice shall be called regularly, and the cases shall be tried when
called, unless the same should be coutinued or postponed to some later period
in the term. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1583. Non-suit. If the plaintifff shall fail to appear when the cause
is called in its order for trial, the justice may, on motion of the defendant,
dismiss the suit. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1584. Proceedings, evidence, etc. Upon a trial before the justice
the proceedings shall conform as near as may be to the rules governing the
district and county courts, and all the rules of evidence and the provisions for
procuring the attendance of wituesses, for taking the depositions of witnesses
and parties, and for taking and determining exceptions' thereto, prescribed for
the government of the district and county courts, shall, when not in conflict with
the provisions of this title, govern the proceedings in the justices' courts, so
far as the same may be applicable. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
See, post, Articles 2209-22G6.
§ 1585. Judgment on trial without jury. After hearing the ev
idence the justice trying the case without a jury shall give judgment for the
party who may appear to be justly entitled thereto. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15
Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1586. May be demanded. Either party to any suit in the justice's
court shall bo entitled to a trial by jury upon making demand therefore and
complying with the provisions of this chapter relating thereto. [Act Aug.
17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1587. Demand and deposit of jury fee. Either party desir
ing a jury shall, on or before the first day of the term at which the case is to
be tried, make a demand for a jury, which shall be noted by the justice in his
docket; and shall also deposit a jury fee of three dollars, which 6hall also be
noted on the docket, and the case shall be set down as a jury case.
§ 1588. Day. to be fixed. The justice shall, on the first day of the
term, fix a day for taking up the jury cases, if any, pending for trial at such
term, and he may fix said first day of the term for that purpose.
§ 1589. Summons, issued when, etc. Whenever at any term
of a justice's court there may be any jury cases pending for trial, it shall be
the duty of the justice to issue a writ directed to the sheriff or any coustable
of the county, commanding him to summon six legally qualified jurors, or a
greater number should the justice deem it necessary, to attend as a jury before
such justice at a day and place to be named in the writ.
§ 1590. Oath to sheriff, etc., summoning jury. The justice
on delivering such writ to the officer shall administer to him the following
oath: "You do solemnly swear that you will, to the best of your skill and
ability, and without bias or favor toward any party, summon such jurors as may
be ordered by the court ; that you will select none but impartial, sensible and
sober men, having the qualifications of jurors under the law ; that you will not
directly or indirectly converse or communicate with any juryman touching any
case pending for trial; and that you will not, by any means, attempt to influ
ence, advise or control any juryman in his opinion, in any case which may be
tried by him ; so help you God." [Act Aug. 1, 1876 ; 15 Leg. p. 80.]
§ 1591. Duty of the officer. The officer receiving such writ shall
immediately proceed to execute the command thereof by summoning the
required number of jurors, to appear before the justice at the day and place
named in the writ.
§ 1592. Summons to juror, how served. Such summons shall
be by an oral notice by the officer to the juror that he is required to appear as
a juror before such justice at the day and place named.
§ 1593. Venire of jurors to be called. At the time fixed for
taking up the jury cases, the justice shall proceed to call the names of the ju
rors so summoned.
§ 1594. Excuses of jurors. The court may hear any reasonable
excuse of a juror, supported by oatli or affirmation ; and may excuse him for
the trial of any particular case, or for one or more days of the term.
§ 1595. Defaulting jurors to be fined. When any person so
summoned as a juror shall fail or refuse to attend, it shall be the duty of the
justice to enter a fine nisi against him for an amount not exceeding five dollars
to the use of the county, to be made final, with costs, unless such person shall,
after being cited to do so, show some good and sufficient excuse for such fail
ure, to be judged of by the justice.
§ 1596. Other jurors to be summoned when necessary. If
the number of jurors present and not excused be less than six or less than the
justice shall deem necessary, he shall order the sheriff or constable to summon a
sufficient number of others, having like qualifications, to make up the re
quired number.
§ 1597. Call of jury docket. When the required number of jurors
is present, the jury cases shall be called in their order on the docket.
§ 1598. Challenge to the array, when. When the parties to a
jury case have announced themselves ready for trial, either party may chal
lenge the array of jurors.
§ 1599. Same, how made. The causes of such challenge, and the
manner of making it, and the decision thereof and the proceedings when such
challenge is sustained, shall be as provided for similar proceedings in the dis
trict and county courts in the title "Juries."
§ 1600. Drawing jury. If no challenge to the array is made the
justice shall write the name of all the jurors present on separate slips of paper,
as nearly alike as may be, and shall place them in a box and mix them well,
and shall then draw the names one by one from the box, and write them down
as they are drawn, upon several slips of paper, and deliver one slip to each of
the parties, or their attorneys. [Act Aug. 1, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 82.]
§ 1601. Challenge for cause. If either party desire to challenge
any juror for cause, such challenge shall now be made. [Act Aug. 1, 1876;
15 Leg. p. 82.]
§ 1602. Same, proceedings on. The causes of such challenge, and
"the manner of making it, and the decision thereof, and the proceedings, when
such challenge is sustained, shall be as provided for similar proceedings in the
district and county courts.
§ 1603. Peremptory challenges. When a juror has been chal
lenged for cause his name shall be erased from the slips furnished to the par
ties; and if there be remaining on such slips as many as six names, the par
ties shall proceed to make their peremptory challenges, if they desire to make
any, which shall be governed by the same rules as are prescribed for the dis
trict and county courts.
§ 1604. Jury constituted, how. When the parties have made their
peremptory challenges, or when they decline to make any, they shall deliver
their slips to the justice who shall call off the first six names on the slips that
have not been erased, who shall constitute the jury to try the case. The
jurors not called shall retire.
§ 1605. Where jury is left incomplete. Where by peremptory
challenges the jury is left incomplete the justice shall direct the sheriff or
constable to summon others to complete the jury, and the same proceedings
shall be had in selecting and empaneling such jurors as are had in the first
instance. [Act Aug. 1, 1876 ; J.5 Leg. p. 82.]
§ 1606. Jurors to be sworn. When the jury has been selected
such of them as have not been previously sworn for the trial of civil cases,
shall be sworn by the justice.
§ 1607. Oath of jurors. The form of the oath shall be in sub
stance as follows: "You and each of you do solemnly swear that in all cases
between parties which shall be to you submitted, you will a true verdict ren
der according to the law and the evidence, so help you God."
§ 1608. Mode of proceeding on trial. The mode of proceeding
on the trial before the jury shall be the same, so far as applicable, as is pre
scribed for the district and county courts in the chapters relating thereto, ex
cept that the justice shall not deliver auy charge to the jury.
§ 1609. Verdict for specific articles. Where the suit is for the
recovery of specific articles, the jury shall, if they find for the plaintifff, as
sess the value of each of such articles separately according to the proof.
[Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1610. Pay of jurors. Before the verdict is rendered the justice
shall pay to each juror fifty cents out of the jury fee deposited in the case.
CH. 13. — THE JUDGMENT.
§
§
1011. Judgment upon verdict of jury.
1610.
1612. Case tried without jury, decision in
open court.
1617.
1613.
Judgment.
1618.
1614. Costs.
1619.
1615. Judgment for specific articles.
1620.
Court may, in certain cases, enforce
judgment by attachment, fine, etc.
No judgment without citation.
Confession of judgment.
Warrant of attorney to be filed.
Same rules as govern district courts,
etc.
§ 1611. Upon verdict of jury. Where the case has been tried by
a jury and a verdict has been returned by them, the justice shall announce
the same in open court and note it in his docket, and shall proceed to render
judgment thereon.
§ 1612. Case tried without a jury. When the case has been tried
by the justice without a jury, he shall announce his decision in open court and
note the same in his docket, and shall proceed to render judgment thereon.
[Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
•
§ 1613. Requisites of judgment. The judgment shall be recorded
at length in the justice's docket, and shall be signed by such justice. It shall
clearly state the determination of the rights of the parties in the subject mat
ter of controversy and the party who shall pay the costs, and shall direct
the issuance of such process as may be necessary to carry the judgment into
execution.
§ 310. See, post, Art. 1620,and,
ante. Arts. 1335-1350. See, also, Horton v. McKeehan, 1 App. C. C. § 467.
§ 174.
§ 1130.
§ 1614. Costs adjudged, how. The successful party in the suit
shall recover his costs, except in cases where it is otherwise expressly pro
vided. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1615. Judgment for specific articles. Where judgment is
for the recovery of specific articles, their value shall be separately assessed,
and the judgment shall be that the plaintifff recover such specific articles, if
they can be found, and if not, then their value as assessed, with interest
thereon at the rate of eight per cent, from the date of the judgment. [Act
Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1616. Enforce judgment by attachment, fine, etc. The
court shall cause its judgments to be carried into execution, and where the
judgment is for personal property, and the verdict, if any, that such property
has an especial value to the plaintifff, the court may award a special writ for
the seizure and delivery of such property to the plaintifff, and may, in addition
to the other relief granted in such case, enforce its judgment by attach
ment, fine and imprisonment. [Act May 11, 1846; 1 Leg. p. 200; P. D.
1420.]
§ 1617. No judgment without citation. No judgment, other
than a judgment by confession, shall be rendered by a justice of the peace
against any party who has not entered an appearance, or accepted or waived
service, unless such party has been cited either personally or by publication.
[Acts Aug. 13, 1870; 12 Leg. S. S. p. 87; Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p.
154 ; P. D. 6341.]
Akt. 1618. Confession of judgment. Any party may appear in
person, or by an agent or attorney, before any justice of the peace, without
the issuance or service of process, and confess judgment for any amount within
the jurisdiction of the justices courts, and such judgment shall be entered on
the justice's docket, as in other cases; but in such cases the plaintifff, his
agent or attorney shall make and file an affidavit in writing, signed by him, to
the justness of his claim. [Act Aug. 17, 1876 ; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1619. Warrant of attorney to be filed. Where such judg
ment is confessed by an agent or attorney, the warrant of attorney shall be
filed with the justice and noted in the judgment.
§ 1620. Same rules as govern district courts, etc. The
rules governing the district and county courts in relation to judgments, shall
apply also to the justices courts in so far as they may not conflict with some
provision of this title.
§ 1621. Judgments by default, etc., may be set aside. Any
justice of the peace shall have power, at any time within ten days after
the- rendition of a judgment by default or of dismissal, to set aside such
judgment, on motion in writing, for good cause shown, supported by affidavit.
Notice of such motion shall be given to the opposite party at least one full
day prior to the hearing thereof. [Act Aug. 17, 1876 ; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 347.
§ 1622. New trials may be granted. Any justice of the peace
may, at any time within ten days after the rendition of any other judgment
in any suit tried before him, grant a new trial therein on motion in writing,
showing that justice has not been done him in the trial of the cause. [Act
Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 68; Griffln v. Brown, 1 App. C. C. § 1097; Masterton v. Conrad, 2 App. C. C. § 753.
§ 1623. Motion to be sworn to, except, etc. If the grounds of
the motion be other than that the verdict or judgment is contrary to the law or
the evidence, or that the justice erred in some matter of law, the motion shall
be supported by affidavit. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 241 ; Mills v. Hackett, 1 App. C. C.
§45.
§ 1624. Notice. All motions to set aside a judgment, or to grant anew
trial, under the two preceding articles, shall be made within five days after the
rendition of the judgment, and one day's notice thereof shall be given to the
opposite party or his attorney. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
See, post, Article 1639, note 3.
§ 1625. Cause continued, unless, etc. Where a judgment is set
aside, or a new trial is granted, the cause shall be continued to the next regular
term of the court, unless otherwise agreed by the parties with the consent of
the justice. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154]
§ 1626. But one. But one such new trial shall be granted to either
party.
§ 1627. Judgments enforced by. The judgments of the courts of
justices of the peace shall be enforced by execution or other appropriate process.
§ 1628. Execution. Such execution or other process shall conform
to the requirements of Article 1568. It shall describe the judgment and shall
require the sheriff or constable of the proper county to execute the same, ac
cording to its terms, whether the same be to make a sum of money, or to de
liver personal property, or to deliver possession of real estate, or to do some
other thing; and if for money it shall state the rate of interest; and it shall
also require the officer to make the costs which may have been adjudged against
the defendant in execution, and the further costs of executing the writ. A
certified copy of the costs, taxed against the defendant in execution according
to the fee book up to the issuance of the execution, shall be attached to the
writ.
§ 1629. Returnable in sixty days. Such execution or other pro
cess shall be returnable in sixty days.
§ 1630. Taxation of costs. Within ten days after the rendition of
any final judgment of the.justice's court it shall be the duty of the justice to
tax up the costs in such suit, and to enter the same in his fee book.
§ 1631. To issue after ten days. On the eleventh day after the
rendition of any final judgment, if the case has not been appealed, and no stay
of execution has been granted, it shall be the duty of the justice to issue an
execution for the enforcement of such judgment and the collection of the costs.
§ 1632. Within the ten days, when. Such execution may be is
sued at any time before the eleventh day, upon the filing of an affidavit by
the plaintifff in the judgment, or his agent or attorney, to the effect that the
defendant is about to remove his property out of the county, or is about to
transfer or secrete his property for the purpose of defrauding his creditors.
§ 1633. To another county to be attested by clerk. Where
an execution from a justice's court is sent to a county other than that in which
the judgment was rendered, it shall be accompanied by a certificate of the
county clerk and attested by his official signature and seal of office, that the
officer issuing the same is an acting justice of the peace in said county ; and
the cost of procuring such certificate shall be collected as part of the costs of
executing the writ.
§ 1634. Dormant judgment, etc. If no execution is issued within
twelve months after the rendition of the judgment, the judgment shall become
dormant and no execution shall issue thereon unless such judgment be revived;
but where the first execution has issued within the twelve months, the judg
ment shall not become dormant unless ten years shall have elapsed between
the issuance of executions thereon, and execution may issue at any time within
ten years after the issuance of the preceding execution. [Act Nov. 9, 1866;
118; P. D. 7005, 7007.]
10 Leg. p
§ 1635. General rules apply, except, etc. The rules prescribed
for the issuance, levy and return of executions shall apply to the justices
courts where not in conflict with some provision of this chapter. [Act Aug.
17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.
See, post, Articles 2267-2334, 2335-2367.
CH. 16. — STAY OF EXECUTION.
§ Art.
1636. Stay of execution. | 1637. Judgment and execution on.
§ 1636. Stay of execution granted, when. At any time within
ten days after the rendition of any judgment in a court of a justice of the
peace, such justice may grant a stay of execution thereon for three months
from the date of such judgment, if the person against whom such judgment
was rendered shall, with one or more good and sufficient sureties, to be ap
proved by the justice, appear before him and acknowledge themselves and
each of them hound to the successful party in such judgment for the full
amount thereof, with interest and costs, which acknowledgment shall be en
tered in writing on the docket, and signed by the persons binding themselves
as sureties ; provided, no such stay of execution shall be granted unless the
party applying therefore shall first file with the justice an affidavit in writing
that he has not the money with which to pay such judgment, and that the en
forcement of same by execution prior to three months would be a hardship
upon him, and would cause a sacrifice of his property which would not likely
bo caused should said execution be stayed. [Amendment March, 1, 1887;
20 Leg. p. 10.]
The original Article reads as follows : At any time within ten days after the rendition of
any judgment in a court of a justice of the peace, such justice may grant a stay of execution
thereon for three months, if the person against whom such judgment was rendered shall,
with one or more good and sufficient sureties to be approved by the justice, appear before
him and acknowledge themselves and each of them bound to the successful party for the full
amount thereof, with interest and costs.
§ 1637. Judgment and execution on. Such acknowledgment
shall be entered by the justice in his docket, and shall constitute a judgment
against the defendant and such sureties, upon which execution shall issue in
case the same is not paid on or before the expiration of such stay. [Act Aug.
17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 1638. Appeal may be taken. Any party to a final judgment in
the justice's court may appeal therefrom to the county court where such
judgment, or the amount in controversy, shall exceed twenty dollars exclusive
of costs, mid in such other cases as may be expressly provided by law. [Act
Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
§ 207.
§ 1638a. Appeal taken to district court, when. In all counties
in which the civil and criminal jurisdiction, or either, of county courts has
been transferred to. the district courts, appeals and writs of certiorari may be
prosecuted to remove a case tried before a justice of the peace to the district
court in the same manner and under the same circumstances under which ap
peals and writs of certiorari are allowed by general law to remove causes to
the county court. [Act April 21, 1879; 16 Leg. p. 125.]
By the Const. Amendment Aug. 4, 1S87, Art. 6, § 12, the supreme court has appellate ju
risdiction of civil court proceedings and controversies, both as to law and fact, with such,
exceptions and under such regulations as may be provided by law.
§ 673.
§ 1639. Appeal bond, -when and how filed; notice to be
given. The party appealing, his agent or attorney, shall within ten days
from the date of the judgment, file with the justice a bond, with two or
more good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the justice, in double the
amount of the judgment, payable to the appellee, conditioned that the appel
lant shall prosecute his appeal to effect, and shall pay off and satisfy the
judgment which may be rendered against him on such appeal.
When Such Bond has been Filed with the justice the appeal shall beheld
to be thereby perfected; but if, upon the call of the docket upon appearance
day in the court, to which the appeal is taken, the appellee fails to appear in
person, or by attorney, the case shall be continued, unless it is shown to the
court that notice of the appeal has been given as hereinafter provided; and no
judgment by default shall at any time be rendered against an appellee whose
appearance has not been entered in the case, unless and until it is made to
appear to the court that notice in writing of such appeal has been served upon
the appellee, his agent or attorney, at least five days before the first day of
the term at which such judgment by default is sought to be taken.
Such Notice may be Signed by the clerk of the court, or by the appel
lant, his agent oi attorney, and may be served by the sheriff or any constable
of the county, or by any other person competent to make oath of the fact;
and the service shall be made by the delivery of a copy thereof to the appel
lee, his agent or attorney ; and such service shall be evidenced by the return
thereon of the officer executing the same, or by the oath of such other com
petent person indorsed thereon and filed with the papers in the case. [Amend
ments April 13 ; July 13, 1883 ; 18 Leg. p. 91.]
§ 1639a. Affidavit of inability dispenses with bond. Where
the appellant is unable to pay the costs of appeal, or to give security therefore,
he shall nevertheless be entitled to prosecute his appeal ; but in order to do so
he shall be required to make strict proof of his inability to pay the costs,
or any part thereof. Such proof shall be made before the county judge of
the county where such party resides, or before the court trying the same, at
any time within ten days from and after the date of the judgment rendered
therein, and shall consist of the affidavit of said party, stating his inability to
pay the costs, which affidavit may be contested by any officer of the court or
party to the suit; whereupon it shall be the duty of the court trying the case,
or the justice of the peace of the precinct in which said case was tried, or the
county judge of the county in which the suit is pending, to hear evidence
and to determine the right of the party to his appeal. [Amendments April
2; July 4, 1887 ; 2Q Leg. p. 113.]
§ 658.
§ 1639J. Appeal perfected, when. When the bond, or the affi
davit in lieu thereof, provided for in the two preceding articles, has been filed,
and the previous requirements of this chapter have been complied with, the ap
peal shall be held to be perfected. [Acts April 14; July 13, 1883; 18 Leg.
p. 113.]
§ 1640. Duty of justice in case of appeal. Whenever an appeal
has been granted from the justice's court to the county court, it shall be the
duty of the justice who made the order, immediately to make out a true and
correct copy of all the entries made on his docket in the cause, and certify
thereto officially, and transmit the same, together with a certified copy of the
T. 32, ClI. 18.] COURTS—justices' GENERAL provisions. 1641-1G44.
bill of costs taken from his fee book and the original papers in the cause, to
the clerk of the county court of his county. [Act Aug. 17, 1876; 15 Leg.
p. 154.]
§312. And when an imperfect transcript is sent up, the Appellate Court will award a writ of
certiorari to secure a perfect record. Brown v. Orinnan, 2 App. C. C. § 413.
§ 1641. Transcript to county court. Such transcript and papers
shall, if practicable, be transmitted to the clerk of the county court on or be
fore the first day of the next term of such court; but if there be not time to
make out and transmit the same to the first term, they may be so transmitted
on or before the first day of the second term of the court. [Act Aug. 17,
1876; 15 Leg. p. 154.]
CH. 18.— GENERAL PROVISIONS.
§
1642. Certiorari to remove cause to county
court.
1643. Duty of justice on service of writ.
§
1644. Rules governing district courts, etc.,
to apply, except, etc.
§ 1642. Certiorari to remove cause. Any cause tried before a
justice of the peace, wherein the amount in controversy, or the judgment, ex
ceeds twenty dollars, exclusive of costs, may be removed from such justice's
court to the county court by certiorari, under the rules prescribed in the title
and chapter relating thereto.
See, ante, Articles 290-S.
§ 1643. Duty of justice on service of 'writ. Whenever a writ of
certiorari to remove any causo from the justice's court to the county court,
shall be served on any justice of the peace, it shall be his duty immediately to
make out a certified copy of the entries made on his docket, and of the bill of
costs, as provided in case of appeals in Article 1640, and transmit the same,
together with the original papers in the cause, to the clerk of the county court
in the maimer and within the time prescribed in that and the succeeding
§cle.
§ 1644. Rules governing. Whenever the mode of proceeding in
any particular case or matter is not prescribed by the provisions of this title,
or of some other law or title specially relating thereto, the same shall be gov
erned by the provisions of the title relating to the mode of proceeding in the
district and county court in civil cases, in so far as the same are applicable.
526

