§ 1 llO. [11 There shall be elected, by a joint vote of the legislature, a commiasioner of
claims, who shall bold his office until the first tiay of January, A. D. 1858, and until his auccessor
shall bo duly elected and qualified. He shall keep his office at the city of Austin. and shall 
receive an annual salary of two thousand two hundred and tiny dollars. Before be enters upon
the discharge of the duties of bis office, he shall enter into bond, with two or more good and
sufficient sureties, in the sum of twenty thousand dollars, made payable to the governor of the
state of Texas, and his successors in office, con<litioned that he will well and truly discharge all
the duties that may be required of him by law, which bond shall be approved by the governor,
and by him filed in the office of the secretary of state; be shall be allowed one clerk, to bo
appointed by him, who shall receive an annual salary of one thousand dollars ; if from any
cause, a vacancy shall occur in said office of commissioner of claims, during tho recess of the
senate, the governor shall fill it by appointment, which shall continue in force until the expiration
of ten days from the first meeting of the senate thereafter. 
435. The eornmtseloners nnder thta and the next aota were Jamee C. Wilaon. L 0. Illlngaworth, Edward 
Olark, Jo11eph Lee, and A. H. Hotchkiu. 
§ llll. [2] [The second section of said act, shall hereafter read as follows:-Sec. 2. All
land certificates of every description, except head-right certificates of the first and second classes, 
which have been returned as genuine and legal, by the commissioners appointed, under an act
to detect fraudulent land certificates, and to provide for issuing patents to legal claimants,
approved 29th January, A. 1>. 1840, and certificates issued under some special act of the con­
gress of the republic of Texas, or of the legislature of this state, and certitlcates to the colonists
of Peters's oolony, Mercer's colony, Castro's colony, Fisher & Miller's colony, and the colonists
of the German emigration company, and certificates issued for premium lands in said colonies,
and certificates issued to companies incorporated under the laws of this state, for the purpose
of internal improvement, and to persons for building vessels under the provisions of the act of
February 3d, A. n.1854, entitled" An act to encourage the building of steamboats, steamships, and
other vessels in the st.ate of Texas," and pre-emption certificates and certificates issued under the
provisions of an act to open and establish a national road, passed February 5tbi 1844, and oerti­
flcates for unlocated balances of any of the above enumerated certificates, shall be presented to 
said commissioner of claims for registry within two years, from and after the first day of Sep­
tember, A. D. 1856, or they shall be forever barred from location surveys and patent, And any
such certificates whioh have been entered, surveyed, or located and filed in any district sur­
veyor's office, or returned to the general land office, or filed in any suit in any district court,
may be withdrawn from said office or court, for the purpose of being presented to said commis­
sioner of claims, without in any manner affecting or violating said entry, location, or survey, or 
the right of the party claiming under any such certificates, in any such suit.] 
§ 1112. (3] It shall he the duty of the said commissioner of claims, to keep a register
of every certificate presented to him under the provlsions of the next preceding section, stating
its number and elate, by whom, and to whom it was issued, the quantity of land it calls for,
whether it is a bounty, donation, or bead-right certificate. If it is a. bounty or donation oortifi· 
cate, be shall state.for what service it was issued. If it is a head-right certiftcate, ho shall state
whether it is a conditional or unconditiona1 one, and of what class. If it was issued to an
&!!signee, he shall state the name of the assignor nnd assignee ; he shall also et.ate by whom it
was presented, and who is represented to be the owner of it at the time; he shall also write
~rose the face of each certificate, the word " registered," and sign hie name, with the date of
.is registry. 
ABT. 1113. r 4] It shall be the duty of the commissioner or the general land office, as early 
!\8 practicabJe aher the passage of this act, to furnish the said commissioner or claims with a
register of every land certificate that has been returned to his office, except bead-right certifi­
cates of the first and second class, which have been returned as genuine and legal claims, b.f
the commissioner appointed under " An act to detect fraudulent land certificates, and to provide
for issuing patents to legal claimants," approved 29th January, 1840, and certificates issued
under some special act of congress of the republic of Texas, or of the legislature of this state,
and certificates issued to colonists of Peters'a colony, .Mercer's colony, Castro's colony, Fisher &
Miller's colony, and the colonists of the German emigration company, and certificates issued for
premium lands in said colonies, and certificates issued to companies incorporated under the
laws of this state, for the purposes of internal improvements, and to persons for building
vessels, under the provisions of an act of February 3d, 1854, entitled "An act to encourage the
building of steamboats, steamships, and other vessels in the state of Texas," and certificates for
unlocated balances heretofore issued, which register shall state the number and date of each
certificate, by whom and to whom issued, the quantity of land called for, whethar it is a
bounty, donation, or head-right certificate. If it is a bounty, or donation certificate, it shall
state for what services it was issued; if it is a head-right certificate, it shall state whether it is
a conditional or an unconditional one, and of what class. If it was issued to an assignee, it 
shall state the name of the assignor and assignee, and afterwards he shall furnish each week,
to said-commissioner of claims, a similar register of nil certificates of the above description,
which have boon returned during the previous weok, and which had not been previously
registered by tho commissioner of claims. 
§ 1 114. l 6] It shall be the duty of the commissioner of the general land office, to make
out, and retain in his office, certified copies of all the reports which have heretofore been made,
or may hereafter be made, to his office, by the clerks of the boards of land commissioners, and
of tho district and county courts of the several counties of the republic awl the state of Texas,
and to transfer the original reports to the commissioner of claims; and also a certified list of
all the certificates issued under the provisiona of an aot for the relief of the heirs of those who
fell with Fauniu, Ward, Travis, Grant, nnd Johnson, during the war with Mexico, in the years 
1835 and 1836, approved February 9th, 18:rn, to the office of the commissioner of claims,
immediately after he shall have entered upon his duties; and the said certified fo1t of certifl­ 
cates shall have the same force and effect in the office of said commissioner of claims, as if it
was an original record of bis office. After the said commissioner of claims shall have entered
upon the discharge of bis duties, the commissioner of the general land office shall not issue a
patent upon any land certificates, except head-right certificates of the first and second class,
which have been returned as genuine and legal by the commissioners appointed under the
provisions of 
An act to detect fraudulent land certificates, and to provide for the issuing of
patents to legal claimants," approved 29th January, 1840, and certificates issued under some
special act of the congress of the republic of Texas, or or the legislature of this state, and cer­
tificates issued to colonists of Peters's colony, Mercer's colony, Castro's colony, Fisher &
Miller's colony, and the colonists of the German emigration company ; and certificates issued
for premium lands in said colonies, and certificates issued to companies incorporated under the
laws of this state, for the purposes of internal improeements, and to persons for building vessels
under the provisions of the act of February 3d, 1854, entitled "An net to encourage tho build­
ing of steamboats, steamships, and other vessels in the state of Texas," and certificates for
unlocated balances heretofore issued, and pre-emption certificates, until it shall have been pre­
sented to, and approved by the commissioner of claims. 
II 
§ 1116. ( 6) [3] [The sixth section of said act shall hereafter read as follows:-Whenever 
a land certificate is presented to the said commissioner of claims for his approval, under the
provisions of this act., he shall register it as directed by the third section of this act, if it has
not already been registered, and if it is a head-right certificate, he shall compare it with a. report
or the clerk of the board of land commissioners, or of the court by which it. purports to have
been issued, and if satisfied that it is a genuine certificate, ho shall write across the face of it
the word ''approved," with the date of its approval, and sign his uamo thereto. If, however,
such certificate was issued to an assignee, and he shall have reason to lx-lievo the asslgnment
thereof was forged, be shall withhold his approval, until the assignment is proved to be genuine
by the evidence of at least two credible witnesses, before tho commissioner, or by deposition
taken before any officer authorized to take depositions under tho laws of this state, and until
tho identity and residence of the partie! and witnesses to such assignment is proved in the 
aamo manner. If such a certificate is a bounty or donation certificate, and the commissioner
has in his office any record or paper showing it to be a genuine one, or if the evidence of at
least two credible witnesses, taken as above, is produced to him, that it is a genuine one, he
shall file snoh evidence, and shall write across the face of the certificate the word " approved,"
with the date of its approval, and sign his name thereto: Provided, however, that he shall hold 
his approval from any bounty or donation certificate issued to an assignee since the 29th day of
November, ._ D. 1851, until the genuineness or the assignment, and the identity and residence
of the parties and witnesses thereto, shall be proved by the testimony of at least two credible
witnesses, in the manner herein prescribed, or otherwise established to the satisfaction of the
commissioner; and should the commissioner of claims, upon such investigation and examination
of any such bounty, or donation, head-right or other certificate, issued to an assignee, be satisfied
that the original grantee was entitled to said certificate, and no satisfactory evidence of the
genuineness of the assignment shall be presented, he shall indorse said certificate " approved
for the benefit of the original grantee," giving the name ; and patent ahall not issue on any 
such claim. until tho rightful owner thereof is proved before the commissioner of claims, or the
person performing tho duties of said office. In all cases where certificates shall be npproved
under tho provisions of this section, the said commissioner shall note the approval with the
date thereof in the margin of his register, opposite tho entry of the certificate, And any indi­
vidual holding a head-right certificate. which may ho rejected, or refused to be approved by the
commissioner of claims, shall have the right, within twelve months from tho time of such
rejectlon, to bring suit in the district court of the county, in which said certificate issued, for
the ostablishment of the same, which suit shall bo brought and conducted in the· manner pre­
scribed for the establishment of certificates not recommended by tho act of February 4th, 1841, 
•entitled " An act supplementary to an act to det,·ct fraudulent land certificates, and provide for
the issuing of patents to legal claimants." A.11d all certiftcates which ahall have been presented
for registry. shall be presented for approval on or before the first day of September, 1858, or
the same shall be null and void: Provided, this act shall not be construed to give jurisdiction
either to the commissioner of claims, or tho district courts, for the re-establishment of any un­
recommended certificate embraced within the purview of the second section of tho 11th article
of the constitution. Nor shall this act authorize the commissioner of claims to approve any
unconditional head-right certiticatcs, unless it shall :1ppear from the records of hi!'! office, or other
satisfactory evidence, that the corresponding conditionul certificate was regularly issued, where
such conditional certificate wus required by law to be issued. 
438. This section Is the re-enactment or the 6th scctlon of the act or 1st AUl!'lll!~ 18..'>6. with the l\dditlon ot
1111 after "And all certiflcatce," In the first proviso, to tho end of the proviso, which 18 not In the act or 15:>6. 
§ 1116. (4) The 7th section of said act shall hereafter read as follows :-Sec. 'l. Any
granteo of a conditional head-right certificate, or his heirs, executors, or administrators, may
apply, by a motion in writing, to the district court of the county in which such conditional cer­
tificate was issued, for a corr .. spending unconditional certificate, which shall he granted by
such court upon such proof as would havo authorized its issuance by any officer, board, or
court of the republic or state of Texas, under tho Jaws in foroo at any time previous to the 1st
day of November, A. D. 185:1. Aud upon further proof, by the certificate of the commissioner
of the general land offlc1:1, under his seal of office, that such conditional certificate was duly
reported to his office by the proper officer, and that no corresponding unconditional certificate
appears, from the records or files of his office, to have been granted or issued, and upon a
like certificate of the commissioner of claims, that such unconditional certificate does not
appear, from the records or files of his office, to have boon issued, The said unconditional
certificates, when granted by any district court, may be issued by tho clerk thereof, under hie
seal of office, and attested and approved by the presiding judge, but shall require no other or
further approval, for location, survey, or patent: Provided, however, that no certificate shall issue
to an aasigneo, under the provisions of this act. The clerks o'f the district court shall each, at
the close of every term, report to the eommissiouer of the general laud office all certificates
issued by him under the provisions of this net. The district attorueys of the districts in which
any such applications may be made, shall represent tho state therein, and tho same may, on
the motion of tho applicant, be taken up and disposed of at any time when the court is not
engaged in the trial of n cause, All claims for such unconditlonal certitlcates uot presented to
the proper district courts for allowance, on or before the first of October. A. D. 1859, shall be
forever barred. All original applications for head-right certificates shall he presented to said
commissioner of claims, with the best evidence it is in the power of the applicanta to produce,
in regard to their right to the land for which they apply, together with proof of their identity
and residence, by at least two credible witnesses; and it shall be the duty of said commis­
sioner to report to the legislature, for its action, a list of all such applications, with the evidonoe 
in support thereof, and his opinion in regard thereto, and such applications not presented on
or before the-first day of September, A. D. 18r.i8, shall be forever barred.] 
or ~1!?ti,1~rl\:<l~tJ1~1~J~~Ut~1:u~r.l,1,~1zi~rt! nt~?!1~;e (-:;;~'J~~t;l 'j~n1"~.r.~;~~/~t~,tc;.~,1~;ll~~~~;~j~!~~lo~:~;~nr~f
the ropnbllc or state or Texus, who h:1s nut heretofore r1·,·l"ind a p11t.•11t, ,,r c,•rlllicatc tllt'r>·f,,r. or his lwir", in 
ease Ill' be dead, may apply to the ~aid commisslom-r of clnims, n111] obtain n c.-rtifi<':1:,· tor such l:111'1 In nil c,15<·!! 
where he or they prove their rurht by such 1:vi,h·ncc· us would hnv« 1111thori7.,rl t h« i~sn:inl'<· <•f such C\· ·tilkctc
by any offlcer or oftic,·rs or t lu- n-puhlic or state of 'l'exns, 11111!1·r t lu- laws in !'ore,· nt :llly time p;,·vl,rns to the 
ftr"t day of November, A, D. 1~;-,'3, unrl shall also prove his or thr-ir ilh·ntlty and rc-idcncc, hy tlu- tcsttrnony or
at least two credible wltru-ssvs, In the munner herein prcscrlbed : Provided, howevi-r, that nu l'l'rtifknte shall
Issue to nn a~sl,!ncc under the pro\'lslons of this s-cuon : and pr,n·l,11'<1, also, t.hnt this section shall not apply to
the elnlms of those persons wl,o foll with Fannin, Ward, 'I'rnvts, Grunt, 111111 Joi.1111,on, In 1~ and l~!-.. which
are oth-rwlse bcrcinnft,·r proyi<lcd for." 
§ 1117. [9] The commissioner of tho general land offico shnll, as early a~ practicable,
after the passage of thii:i act, furniAh to said commis~ioner of claimi.i. certifi<'d copi{·~ of tho,:o
copioA of the muster rolls of tho SC'\'Cral companies thnt were under the command of Fa11nin
arnl Ward, and also of those copies of the li:-ts of thli names of tho-c who frll i11 the Alnnio, 
with Travis and with Grant, and under th" command of Johnson, during the war w;th MPxi,~\
in the year 1836, which were furnished by the nlljutant-g-£inoral to tlH' commis:-:imwr of th·~ 
general land office, under tho proviilions of an act for the relief of lhe hein, of !host' \\ ho f. H
with Fannin, Ward, Travi~, Grant, and Johnson, during the war with Mexico, in the ye:m; l ~:15
and 1s:rn, approved February 9th, 1850; which copiP!'l, when furnished, shall have tbt' ;:ama
force and effect in the office of said commissioner of claims, as if they were original re<·orcl~ in
hiM office. And the said commissioner of claims 1-1hall hereafter perform all the dutic:a of t!,I)
adjutant-general under tho prO\·i~ions of said rceited net: Provided, however, that no ct>r· 
titicate shall hereafter be is,:.11ed under the pro\'isions of said act, unless the applicant shall
prove his identity nnd rcsidc,nce by the tcslimony of at least two credible witncsSC'"-, in tho
runnner herein pre,wriberl; and provided, al.:o, that 110 cerLifica.te shall be issued in the name
of an as,·i~'llee, under ~11;,1 act. 
§ 1 ll 8. flu] Tb'J said comrniRsioners of claims shall hereafter perform all the 1ln:i•:'.'!
rer,uire(l of the eom;;1i,i,;1011cr ot' th" '.;L'ucrol lan(l 11:Ih·,\un<lPr the provi~im1s of an act to p:m·; J.,
for thii liquidation of tho pulilic deht of tho r•·p·d1\i(.! o; Texas, apprC'\'Ori Fcbrunry l: th. 1~·:,;i 
§ 1119. [nj The commissioner or claims shall also perform all the duties required or
the commissioner of the general land office, under the provisions of an act authorizing the
issuing of duplicates, land warrants, discharges. and ccrtificatca for head-richt claims upon
certain conditions, approved January 141h, 18-10, and also under the provisions o( an act
authorizing the issuing duplicate land warrants, discharges, and certificates for head-right
claims upon certain conditions, approved 'May l l th, 18•!1>. He shnll bo authorized to issue
duplicate, bounty, and donntion certificates, in the same manner that the secretary of war, or
adjutant-general could hnve done at :my time heretofore : Provided, the applicant for a dupli­
eate shall comply with all the requisites prescribed in said two acts, and shall also prove by
the testimony of at least two credible witnesses, or record evidence, that the original certifi­
cate which is said to have been lost or destroyed, did, in fact, issue; and shall also prove that
the original has not been returned to the general land office, and shall also prove his identity
and residence by the same number of witnessea: and provided, also, that if the original cer­ 
tificate was issued to an assignee, the assignment and the identity and residence of the parties
and witnesses thereto, shall be proved in the same manner. 
§ 1120. [12] Whonever any person shall desire to procure a eertiflcnte for an uulocated
balance of, and certificate upon which a patent has issued, CJ1e may procure from the commis­
sioner of the general land offieo, a certificate showing that he is entitled to such unlocated
balance, and also fully describing the original certificate, and bow much thereof has been
patented, and upon tho presentation thereof t.o said commissioner of claims, he shall record it,
and issue a new eertitlcnto, for such unlocated balance. Such new eertiflcate shall he counter­
signed by the commissioner of the ~cncml land office, and may then be located, surveyed, and
patented as other genuine certificates, The commissioner of claims shall keep a descriptive
register of all such new ccrtiticates issued by him. 
A RT. 1121. (I :·q Wheucvcr n eortillcate shall be presented to the commissioner of claims
for registry only, and he shall have reason to believe that it was improperly issued, from any
cause, he shall, after regist-ring it, write his belief across tho face of it, with the" date and his
signature, before returning it; and also, whenever a certificate shall be presented to him for
his approval, and he shall fail to approve it for any cause, he shall write across the face of it
the reason why he fails to approve it, with the date and hls signature. 
§ 1122. (14] The governor shall be, and he is hereby authorized to appoint three dis­
creet persons, with powers to examine the records of any of the boards of land commissioners,
and of the district and county courts of any county in this state, and to examine persons in re­ 
gard to tho manner in which such records have been kept, and make a full report of their pro­
ceedings, whenever in hiR opinion tho public interest will be subservcd by such oxnminntion,
and the persons so appointed shall be entitled to receive from the state the sum of three
dollars each for every day they may be necessarily employed under their appointments. 
§ 11:.!3. [15] It shall be the duty of the commissioner of claims, to procure all dupli­
enres and copies of muster rolls of the companies that have heretofore served in the republic
or state of Texas, with such evidence in regard to their authenticity, as can be obtained, and
file the same in his office, for the purpose of aiding him in detecting frauds, that have here­
tofore been practised upon the government, or that hereafter may be attempted. 
§ 1124. [16] All oral evidence submitted to said commissioner of claims, shall be re­
duced to writing, and signed by the party giving it, and shall then be sworn to before said
commissioner, or his clerk, who shall be authorized to administer oaths in all cases required in
she discharge of the duties of their office, and all such evidence, and all testimony issued
before said commissioner, shall be filed and preserved by him. 
§ 112;">. [.l7J That said commissioner of claims shall report weekly to the commissioner
of the general land office, a descriptive list of all certificates which he has issued and approved
for the week previous, and he shall annually make ll report on the first day of October, to the
governor, of the number and description of certificates that he has issued and approved for
~he year previous . 
.AnT. 1126. [ 18] He shall demand and receive a fee of one dollar for each duplicate certifl­
eatc, and for each certificate for an unlocated balance, and for each certificate to a railroad
company, and for each certificate, as a reward or bonus for the building of a steamboat. steam­
ship, or other vessel, that ho may issue. He shall nlso demand and receive a fee of five
dollars for each certificate for one league and labor; three dollars for each certificate of twelve
hundred and Pighty acres or over that amount, and less thnn one league and labor, and two
dollars for each eertiflcnto for less than twelve hundred and eiehty acres, that lie may issue as
head-rights, and no fee shall be demanded for any original bounty or donation certificate. He
shall enter all such fees, and by whom paid, in a book to be kept for that purpose, and shall
account for and pay over all such fees quarterly, to the state treasurer . 
• \RT. 1127. (19] Ho shall procure a seal for tho authentication of all instruments of writing
emanating from his office, which shall have a star of five points, in the centre, and the words,
"co:nmi~ioncr of claims." around tho star. 
§ 11~8. (20] The. several clerks of the district and county courts of this state, shall,
hereafter, report to the snid commissioner of claims, all certificates for land obtained from
their courts, in the Mme manner that they were heretofore required to report them to the com­
missioner of the general land office . 
..:\RT. 1129. [:!IJ The said commissioner of claims shall, hereafter, issue all land certificates
to railroad compamcs, which the commissioner of the general land office is authorized or re­
quired to issue under any Jaw of the state; anti also, all land certificates that the commissioner
of the general land office is authorized to issue under the provisions of" .An act to encourage the
building of steamboats, steamships, and other vessels in the state of Tcxns." approved 3d Feb­
ruary, 1854, and all applications for such certificates shall, hereafter, be presented to the said
commissioner of claims, in the same manner as they were heretofore required to be presented
to the commissioner of the general land office, and the said commissioner of claims shall issue
all such certificates in like manner, and under like restrictions as the commissioner of the
general land offlc.oe, was heretofore "-11uired to issue them. 
, AB.T. 1130: r22] The list of the persona composing the regiment under the oommand
of Edward Burfeson, at the battle of San Jacinto, which is now in the pouession of the gov•
ernor of this state, together with the affidavit of Captain Jesse Billingaley, attached thereto,
proving its authenticity, and also the manuscript book, now in possession of the governor,
purporting to contain copies of certain muster rolls that were heretofore in the adjutant­
genoral's office, shall be deposited in the office of the said commissioner of claima, and may
be used by him as evidence upon which to approve bounty and donation certificates heretofore
issued by the adjutant-general of this state, and by the secretary of war of the late republio oC 
Texas.
§ 1131. (24] That said commissioner of claims shall also perform all the duties Imposed 
upon the auditor, by the provisions or 
11 
.An act to provide for ae<l"'rt.aining the debt of the lat.e 
republic of Texas," approved March 20th, 18481 in the same manner, and under like restric­
tions ; and every person having a claim against the republic of Texas, for services, or supplies 
furuished the government or the army, or for property taken for the use of the government or 
the army, shall present the same to the commissioner of claims, and comptroller of public ae­ 
counts, on or before the first day of January, 1858, or the same shall be forever barred.
§ 1132. [25] When any claim is presented to said officers, under the provisions of the 
next preceding section, if the party shall produce to said officers such vouchers, and proof in
support thereof, as would have permitted it to be audited under the laws of the republic of
Texas, they shall jointly receipt for the samo, under their hands and seals of office, setting
forth the par value thereof, at the time accrued, the name of t.he person to whom it accrued,
and the date and amount thereof; and such receipts shall be paid by the state treasurer, when­
ever an appropriation shall be made therefore. 
§ 1133. [26] Every person who shall present a claim to the said commissioner and
comptroller, under the provisions of this act, iA1all prove his identity and residence, by the
testimony of, at least, two credible witnesses, in the manner herein prescribed; and if the
applicant be an assignee, he shall also prove the identity and residence of the parties and
witnesses to the assignment, in the same manner. 
§ 1134. [27] That all the books, papers, and archives, in and belonging to the auditor's
office, shall be turned over to the commissioner of claims mentioned in this act, and become a
part of the archives of his office. 
§ 1135. [28] That " An act supplementary to an act to provide for ascertaining the
debt of the late republic or Texas,,, approved March 20th, 1848, and so much of an act to fix
the salaries of certain state officers, approved 11th February, 1864, as fixes the salary of
auditor at fifteen hundred dollars, and an act to provide for closing the business of the late
war and marine department, approved April 27th, 1846, and the second section of ".An act re­
quiring the commissioner of the general land office to issue patents, upon unconditional head·
right certificates for land," approved May 12th, 1846, and "An act to provide for the issuance 
of bounty, and donation land warrants, to persons entitled to the same," approved 31st January,
1864, and so much of "An act to fix the salary of certain state officers," approved 11th Feb­
ruary, 1864, as places the salary of the adjutant-general at twelve hundred dollars; shall be, 
and the same are hereby repealed; and all laws and parts of laws conflicting with the pro·
visions of this act, be, and the same are hereby repealed. 
§ 1136. [6] No duplicate of a conditional certificate, Poe certificate, or of the discharge,
shall hereafter be issued. Nor shall a duplicate military warrant be issued to the heirs of a
deceased person, until after the first day of Sept.ember, A. D. 1858. And all the heirs, who are
of age, shall make affidavit before some officer authorized to administer oaths, using a seal, that 
· they have no knowledge that the deceased transferred his right to said claim during his life·
time; nor have they transferred their right thereto since hia death. That from and after the
first day of September, A.. D. 1858, duplicates may issue to the heirs of deceased persons, aE1 iD
other cases. 
§ 113'1. (61 That no certificate for an unlocated balance of a certificate, which has in
part been patentea, shall be issued unless the original certificate has been approved, or issued
by said commissioner of claims ; but this section does not apply to cortlficates for unlocated
balances of such certificates as are not by law required to be presented to and approved by 
said commissioner.
§ 1138. [7] · Said commissioner of claims shall be authorized to approve all augmentation 
certificates which were issued under the act of 4th January, 1841, to persons for marrymg in
this country previous to 1st January, 18421 in the same manner ·as other genuine head-right 
certificates are aprroved. .
§ 1139. [8 The business of said office shall be conducted as nearly as is consistent 
with its organization and powers, in the same manner as the business of the general land office;
and to this end, the commissioner shall act upon claims in the order in which they mny reach
his office, by mail or otherwise; he shall correspond with, and fully inform the applicants as to 
their business in his court, and transmit to them all the papers as directed. He shall cross all 
interrqga.tories that may be filed in bis court, and cross-examine all witnesses ; and he shall
dispose of interrogatories when crossed, as directed by the person filing the same. He shall,
when applications are made for an unlocated balance of n land certificate, or lost certificates,
or for any other purpose whatever, which may require a certificate or any other information
from the general land office, correspond with and obtain the information required from
that office. This section shall be so construed as to secure the objects for which it is framed,
to wit : To relieve persons having business in said court from employing agents or attorneys to 
conduct the routine of business incident upon their applications.
§ 1140. [9] If the duties imposed upon the commissioner, by the provisions of this act, 
ahall require the aid of an additional clerk, it shall be his duty to make the same known to the
governor, whose duty it shall he to employ and appoint such clerk, whose salary shall not ex· 
ceed one thousand dollars.
§ 1141. [IO] All the postage incident to the correspondence of said court Bhall, llile 
that of the general laud office, be paid by the state, and under the same regulations. 
Aia. 114-2. (12] From and after the first day of September, A. D. 1869, tne comptroller 
,mall do and perform all the duties then appertaining to the office of commissioner of claims,
under the provisions of a~ entitled " An act to ascertain the legal claims for money and
lands agaiust the state," passed A11g11st 1st, 1856, and under the provisions of this act. And
thereafter, the comptroller sball not act as the agent of any person for the prosecution of
a claim of any description, against the republic or state of Texas ; nor as the agent of any
person in locating lands, or procuring patents for lands ; nor as the agent of any person in and
about the registry, approval, or issuance of any land certificate whatever i nor shall he there­
after purchase any interest in any claim for land or money against the republic of Texas, or
state of Texas ; and if he shall violate any of the provisions of this section, he shall, on con­
viction therefore, be fined in a. sum not less than two thousand dollars, and shall thereafter be
ineligible to hoid any office in this state. 
§ 1143. [13] Every county and district surveyor in this state, shall, on the first day or
May next, and every three months thereafter, return to the commissioner of claims a full and
complete list of all certificates for land, of whatever character, then in his office, specifying the
same by number and quantity, stating to whom and by whom issued, nnd whether duplicated
or original, and the name of the then owner or claimants ; and if duplicate, the num her of the
original, and by whom and to whom the original issued ; and whether said certiflcatca are
located or unlocated. And any surveyor who shall fail to make such return, under oath, shall be
liable to a penalty of five hundred dollars. And it shall be the duty of the commissioner of
claims to give information to the several district attorneys of every violation of the provisions
of this section; and it shall be the duty of the district attorney to institute suit against the de­
faulting surveyor for the recovery or Huch penalty; and the certificate of the commissioner of
claims, that the surveyor has failed to make such return, shall be sufficient evidence of the fact. 
ABT. 1144. [14] All claims for land for military services, not presented to the commissioner 
of claims on or before the first day of September, 1858, shall also be forever barred; but when
any claim for land, military or otherwise, is presented on or before that day, proof to establish
the same may be subsequently taken, until the first day of January, 1859, and not thereafter. 
§ 1145. [15] That the 8th section of the said act to which this is supplementary and
amendatory, is hereby repealed. 
438. The section of the act or 1st August, lSM, thus repealed, under which "an omntbus " private relief 
bill was pa&l\•d, read 118 1'ollow11 :-" Sec. S. In cases where persons descrfbed In the next preceding seetion, llha1l
not be able to prove their right before the eomrnlsstoner, by such evidence aa would have authorized the lasu­
snee of anch a certlftcato by any officer, or officers, or the republic or at.ate of Texu, under the provllion1
of the lawa in force at any time previous to the drat day of No\'t>mber, A. D. 1858, they may present their ap­ 
plleation to eald commluioner, with the best evidence it 111 ln thelr power to produce In regard to tl.u:ir rlght to the 
land !or which they apply, together with proof or their lrlentlty and residence, by the testlmonj' or nt lcnst two 
credible w1tneases, and it ehwl be the duty or said eommtestoner to report to the leglalature, for lta acUon, aa
often u It may meet, a list or all such IIJ1pllcatlons, with the evldenco In eupport thereof, and hla opinion in 
repnt thereto. All auoh claima for J.ano, uot pre8tlnted within two yean after the pu1111ge of thia act, ahall be 
tonver barr*1." 
AN A<Jr SUPPLEMENTARY TO "AN ACT SUPPLEMENTARY AND AMEND.A.TORY
OJ.I' AN ACT TO .ASCEUT.AIN THE LEGAL CLAIMS FOR HONEY AND LAND 
AGAINST THE STATE," PASSED AUGUST rsr, 1856. APPROVED JANUARY 
16TH, 1858. 
A.BT. 1146. [I] Any person entitied to bounty or donation lands for military services un­
der the laws of the republic and state of Texas, who has not heretofore received a certificate,
warran; or patent therefore, or who may have lost such warrant, and on application for n du­
plicate, cannot prove the existence of the original by any other than his own oath, or the
heirs of such person, if he be dead, may apply to the commissioner of claims, and establish
their rights to the same, by proof such as would have authorized the issue of a certificate or
duplicate warrant in such case by any officer of the republic C't state of Texas, under the laws
in force prior to the first day of November, 1863, and by proof of his or their identity and resi­
dence by two credible witnesses, examined before said commissioner, or before some officer 
authorized to take depositions: Provided, no duplicate bounty or donation warrant shall be 
Issued, unless the existence of the corresponding original be established to the satisfaction of 
the commissioner, by record proof, or tho evidence of at least two credible witnesses. But the
certificate or warrant in such case shall not issue until after the first day of September, :008, 
nor shall the provisions of this act apply to the claims of the heirs of those who fell with
Fannin, Ward, Travis, Grant, and Johnson, in 1835 and 1836, which are otherwise provided
for, nor shall anJ warrant or certificate issue to an assignee. 
§ 1147. L2] All applications for bounty or donation land, not filed with the commissioner
of.claims on or before the first day of September, 1858, shall be forever barred. 
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR PATENTING BB.AD-RIGHT CERTIFICATES NOT PBBBENT.ED TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS FOR APPROVAL WITHIN THE Tlll:& PRllr
SCRI.Blm BY LAW, AND FOR ISSUING DUPLICATE HJUD-RIGHTS AND UNLOCAT.ED BALANCE CERTIFICATES. 
§ 1148. r1] All genuine head-right certificates or genuine Toby or
Bryan scrip, aucl all genuine certificates of any district or supreme court of
this state, establishing head-rights that have been legally issned and properly
reported to the proper officers, that have not been -presented to the court of 
claims within the time prescribed by law, shall be recognized and patented 
the same as though they had been presented and approved by the commissioner of claims. He may also patent in the same m.iuuer all certificates or 
w!'n:ante issu~ by the commissione~ of claims or ~omptroller, acting com· 
missioner of claims, but should any fraudulent certiflcate for land, by acei­ 
dent, inadvertence, or design, be perfected into patent under this act, said
patent shall be void, and no title shall vest. 
A.BT. 1149. fl] There shall be elected by a joint vote of the legislature, a commlsaioner of
claims, who shall hold his office until the first day of January, 1862. He shall keep his office
at the city of Austin, and shall receive an annual salary of two thousand dollars. Before he
enters upon the discharge of the duties of his office, he shall enter into bond, with two o, 
more good and sufficient sureties, in the sum of twenty thousand dollars, made payable to the
governor of the state of Texas, and his successors in office, conditioned that he will well and
truly discharge all the duties required of him by law, which bond shall be approved by the
governor, and by him filed in the office of the secretary of state. Be shall be allowed one
chief clerk, to be appointed by him, who shall receive an annual salary of twelve hundred dol­ 
lars; and who, in case of the sickness or abseuce of said commissioner, shall perform his
duties. If from any cause a vacancy shall occur in sui.l office of commissioner of claims, dur­ 
ing the recess of the legislature, the governor shall till the same by appointment.
A.RT. 1150. [2] After he has complied with the preceding section of this act, and entered 
upon the discharge of the duties of his office, tho comptroller shall turn over to him all the
books, papers, and archives then pertaining to the duties of his office, that were delivered to
him by the former commissioner of claims on the 1st September, 1859; after which he shall 
perform all acts required by law of the comptroller, acting commissioner of claims, not other·
wise provided for. 
§ 1151. [3] Any person, his heirs 01· assigns, eutithd IP 11 head-right under the coloni­
zation laws of Coahuila and Texa.15, or under any law enacted by the congress of the republic
of Texas, whose right was and is recognized by the constitution of the republic or state of
Texas, who has not heretofore received a valid grant, oertifleato, or patent, in virtue of said 
claim, may apply to the commissioner of claims, under the regulations prescribed in this act, 
at any time, before the first day of June, 1861, and if entitled, receive a certificate therefore.
No person is entitled to apply under the 3d section of this act, unless the individual, in 
whose right the claim is made, was domiciled and resided, continuously, in Texas and the re, 
public of Texas, from their birth or the time of their emigration, to the time of the application,
except in cases when the individual in whose right the claim is made, domiciled and resided
continuously, as aforesaid, may have died before or since the first day of January, eighteen
hundred and forty-six. The party applying shall prove tho existence of every fact necessary
under the laws giving the right to establish the justice of the claim, and shall comply with the
requirements and provisions of this act. 
Applications for certificates shall first be presented in wnting, in open court, either district
or county court, at some regular term. The application must state tJ1e name of the individual
in whose right the claim is made, whether he was a citizen, born in Texas, or an emigrant. If 
an emigrant, the time of his or her emigration, the time, place, and county of his first fixed
residence, the county or counties where such emigrant has resided, up to the time of making
the application, or until the time of his death, if such emigrant has departed this life ; whether
such emigrant was married or single; if married, whether the family of such emigrant came
with him, or whether they subsequently came to the country, and when; if such emigrant was
married subsequently to his emigration, the application shall state when, where, and to whom
he was married. If the individual in whose right the claim is made, was a permanent citizen
of the republic of Texas, on the fourth day of January, 1839, claiming, under the second section
of an act of that date, the application shall state the date or time of the birth, or the age of the 
individual in whose right the claim is made, the county or place of his fixed domicile on the 4th
January, 1839, the county or counties in which such individual resided upto the fl.rat Janua.ry, 
1846. If the party be dead, the county where and time when hEI died. The application shall 
state that the party in whose right the claim is made, was domiciled and resided continuously
in Texas, from the date of his emigration to the time of tho application, or to the time of hie
death, and that no valid title, patent, certificate, or warrant has ever been issued in virtue or
said claim, and that the claim is a just and subsisting claim, in favor of the applicant: said ap­
plication shall be signed by applicant, and sworn to in open court. 
:'.'.:!e testimony of witnesses to establish any claims under the provisions of this act, shall
be oral, delivered in open court, either district or county court, where the application is made
or where the witness resides, at any regular term, which shall be reduced to writing by the
clerk. In addition to the facts necessary to establish the justice of the claim, the witness
must state the county, town, or city where he (witness) resided at the time of the emigration
or accrual of the right of the party in whose right the claim is made, concerning which he tes­
tifies, facts showing his means of knowing the party in whose right the claim is made, the
county or counties, where he has resided since his first knowledge or the emigration of such
party, the names of prominent citizens of the several counties of his residence, with whom he is or 
was acquainted. 'l'he witnesses shall be examined severally, and not ht the hearing of each other.
The application must be filed in the county where the applicant resides, and the testimony 
may be taken there or in the county or counties where the several witnesses may reside. The
judges, presiding, shall certify that the application was sworn to in open court, and that the
evidence of the witness or witnesses, was given orally in open court, and reduced to writing by
the clerk, that the same was signed by the witness, and sworn to in open court, and that the
witness is a credible person ; that when the court so certifies, the clerk of the court, wherein
the proceeding is had, shall record the application and the statement of the witnesses, in a
book to be kept by him for that purpose, to be a record in his office. That so soon as the ap­
plication and testimony is so recorded, the clerk shall seal up the same, and forward it, post
paid, to the court of claims at Austin, for which service the clerk shall be entitled to a fee of 
two dollars, in addition to the usual recording fee, tr be paid by the applicant. When the com·
missioner of claims shall receive any such package' lie shall docket tho claims in a hook, to be 
kept for that purpose, place the papers in proper order, and refer it. to the board. t1'M&ed by
this act. 
.ABT. 1152. [4] That all appli~tions so filed, before any _fu~er actio~ shall be taken on
the claim the applicant shall pay Into the hands of the comrmssioner of claims, two dollars and 
fifty cen~, for tho use of the state, _for.examination of each claim. Tha~ w:hen the application
is so flied and the said sum so paid, 1t shall be referred to the comrmssroner of the general
land offi~, the comptroller, and the t~asurer, who, together with the commissioner of claims, 
are hereby constituted a board, to clec1~e upon all cases th~t may be referred to thel'I!, under 
the provisions of this act; who shall sit at the court of claims, on the first Monday in each
month and as much oftener as may he necessary, who shall proceed to examine and decide on
said cl:Um. Everv case presented shall be decided upon the evidence in writing. filed as afore­
said and from ti1e evidence, among the books, papers, and archives of the office of commie­
iqon~r of claims. If the said board be fully satisfied that the party in whose right the npplica­ 
tion is made was or is justly entitled to tho amount of land claimed, in good faith, and
according to Iaw, and that no valid title, eertlflcnte, warrant, or patent bas ever been issued in 
virtue of said right, the commissioner of claims shall be authorized to issue a certificate for the
amount of the land to which the applicant is entitled, in the name of the party originally entitled under the senl of his office, and signed by the commissioner, the certificate to be delivered
to th~ party filing tho application, or his agent. Should the evidence be insufficient to estab- 
11~h the right, the claim shall be rejected. 
:\ In'. 115:1. [ 5 J Any grantee of a conditional certificate, his hairs, executors, or administratnrs uu.y apply to the district or county courts, as provided in tho preoeding section, for a 
corrospoudimr, unconditio.nnl. certificate, and shall_ adduce such p~oof i~ support thereof as 
would have authorized ,t~ issuanco by any law m force nt any time prior to the first day of
November l~f,3. The ov i.h-nce shall he takon and returned to the commissioner of claims, in
the mann:r provided i11 tho foregoing section. If the proof bP sufficient, the board ma.y award
to the applicant an .uu-ouditional certificate, which shall be issued by tho commissioner of 
claims. 
§ 1154. [ti] .\ny grantee of a conditional head-right certificate, or his heirs, executors,
or nduiinistrators, may apply, by motion, in writing: to the district court of the county in
which such conditional certificate was issued, for a corresponding unconditional certificate, 
which shall be granted by such court upon such proof as would have authorized its issuance
by any officer, board, or court of the republic or state •• Texas, under the laws in force at any
time previous to tho lirst day of N ovember, A. D. l 8~1:, .urd upon further proof by tho certifl- 
cate of the general land office, under his seal of office, that such conditional certiflcate was duly
reported to his office by the proper oflicor. and that no corresponding unconditional certiflcnte
appears from the records or files of his office, to have been g-ranted or issued, and upon a like
certificate of the commissioner of claims, that such unconditional certitlc.nte does not appear,
from the records or flies of his office, to have been issued, the said unconditional eertitlcates,
when granted by any district court, ma.v be issued hy tho clerk thereof under his seal of office, 
and attested and approved by the presiding judge, but shall require no other or further np·
proval for location, survey, or patent: Provided, however, that no certificate shuli issue to any 
assignee under tlte provisions of this act. The clerks of tho district courts shall each, at the 
close of every term, report to the commissioner of the general land office all ccrtifleates issued 
by him under the provisions of this act, Tllo district attorneys of the districts in which any
such application may ho made, shall represent the state therein, and the same may, 011 tho mo- 
lion of the applicant, be takeu up and disposed of at any timo when the court is not engaged
in t.b-0 trial of a cause, · 
:>~RT. 1165. [7] Any person entitled to bounty or donation lands, for military services, 
-under the laws of the republic or state of Texas, who has not received a certificate, warrant, or
patent therefore--or their heirs if thoy be dead, may apply to the commissioner of claims, on or 
before tho first day of Juno, l8Gl1 and obtain a certilicate or warrant. upon their making affidavit that tliey wore in the service and for the length of time for which they apply, and that
they were honorably discharged (if the discharge is lost or destroyed, they shall so state);
and that they have not received a certificate or warrant for the service for which they apply;·
they shall also prove by the testimony of at least two creditable wiuresses, who were in the
same service, that they performed the service fol· which the application is made, and shall
prove their residence; which testimony, as to residence, shall be written in connection with
the affidavit of the applicant, and shall state that they know him, and that they saw him sign
his name thereto. If the commissioner of claims has in hi:; office any corresponding record 
evidence that, in connection with the testimony filed, satisfies him that the applicant is entitled, ho may issue a warrant therefore. If he has uo such evidence, ho may refer the appliestion to said board, who shall dotermine as to the merits of tho ease. He may, however, issue
warrants to those entitled, who present an honorable discharge, properly countersigned, or a
genuine Poe certiflcate, without any other proof than their own affidavit, as above stated:
Provided, widows und orphans shall not he required to make any affidavit. All testimony
taken in accordance with the provisions of this section (other than before said commissioner),
if in this state, shall ho before tho clerk of the county court where the witnesses reside; i.f 
out of the state, it must be taken by an officer authorized by the laws of Texas to take authentications of instrumeuts for registry in the state of 'I'exas, The credibility of tho applicant and
witnesses shall be certified to in all cases arising under this sectiou. 
A RT. 1156. (8] The attorney-general, when not absent from the seat of government on
professional duties, shall appear as counsel in behalf of tho state, in nil cases aTising under the 
preceding sections of this act, where a majority of the board may deem it necessary; and shall,
at the request of the commissioner of claim». jlivo an opinion in writing in all cases touching 
the public interest that would be affected by the action of the commissioner, ~hottld a case
ho presented for tho action of the said board. during his absence, and thsy deeru it necessary, it
may be suspended until his return, or bh opinion is obtained, 
§ ll57. [VJ All bounty and donation wanunts issued fur military s::rvi1\J:'. that l.uve 
• 
Google 
not been patented or approved by a former commissioner of claima, except thoee Issued by a
commissioner of claims, or the comptroller acting as such, shall be presented to 881d commis­ 
sioner for approval, on or before the first day of June, 1861, or the same shall be forever
barred 
§ 1158. (10] Whenever a warrant is presenfied for approval under the provisions of
this act, said commissioner of claims shall register it, stating its number and date ; by whom
and to whom it was issued, the quantity of land it calls for, the service for which it issued, ·
and whether it is a bounty or donation. If he has in his office any record or other evidence
showing that the party wns in the service during the time stated in the warrant, and he be 
satisfied of the genuineness of the signature, and it has not been duplicated, or another issued
in lieu thereof, be shall approve it. If there be no evidence in his office that the party served,
and be be satisfied that it was issued by an officer authorized by law to issue such claims, or
the testimony of two witnesses be taken in the manner herein prescribed, proves that it was 
80 issued, he may approve it. When any such warrant is presented for registl'y and approval,
and he believes it to be a forgery, he shall reject it; or if issued to an assignee, and he believes
it so issued, upon a forged transfer, he may reject it. If a warrant is proven as specified in
this act, and he has satisfactory evidence in his office that the party has obtained his land
before, he shall reject the claim so presented, stating fully on the face of each warrant his
reasons therefore. And any person aggrieved by the provisions of this section, may bring suit 
within one year from the date of such rejection, in the district court of Travis county, to 
establish their rights ; to be governed by the rules of evidence in other cases; and shall make 
the commissioner of claims a party to the suit. The state shall be represented by jbe district
attorney, who shall be entitled to a fee of twenty dollars for every case that is not sustained­ 
to be paid by the plaintifff as costs of suit, for which execution may issue as in other suits.
Any warrant so established shall be presented to said commissioner of claims, together with a 
certified copy of judgment, and a certificate from the clerk that no appeal has been taken to 
the supreme court within the time allowed by law to take appeals, when he shall approve it.
§ 1159. (11] All claims presented for registry and approval shall remain in the office 
uutil final action is taken thereon; they may, however, be sent out under a commission from said
officer, in any case where it may be necessary to the establishment or the same. He sh.all not
reject any warrant until six months from the date of its presentation have passed, unless at
the request of the party. He shall have the power to review the action of a former oommlssiouer,
or comptroller acting as such, where he is satisfied that injustice has been done any party, or 
that a certificate has been improperly issued. He may approve all genuine 1920-acre bounty
warrants, in the same manner as other warrants are approved. 
§ 1160. (12) Said commissioner of claims shall perform all the duties of the adjntant­
general, under the provisions of the " Act for the relief of the heirs of those who fell witli
Fannin, Ward, Travis, Grant, and Johnson," approved Februrary 9th, 1850. He may also
issue to said heirs bounty and donation warrants, upon the same proof that authorizes the
issuance of head-right certificates, as provided for in said act: Provided, however, that no
certificate shall hereafter be issued under provisions of said act, unless the applicant shall
prove his residence by the testimony of at least two credible witnesses : and provided, also,
that no certificate shall be issued to an assignee under Raid act. 
§ 1161. (13] The commissioner of claims shall perform all the duties of the adjutant.
general under the provisions of the two acts authorizing the issuing of duplicate "land
warrants, discharges, and certificates of head-right claims upon certain conditions," approved
January 14th, 1840, and 11th May, 1846: Provided, the applicant for a duplicate shall comply
with all the requisites prescribed in two said acts, and shall prove by the testimony of at 
least two credible witnesses, or other satisfactory evidence, that the original warrant which is
said to be lost, did in fact exist, and that it has not been returned to the general land office. Or
if said commissioner has in his office evidence that would have authorized the issuance of the
original, he may issue a duplicate, without proving the existence of the original farther than
by his own oath : Provided, that no duplicate of a Poe certificate, or of a discharge, shall be
issued: Provided, also, that if two or more persons own any head-right or other claim so l<>eti
whether application for a duplicate be made to the commissioner of claims or the commissioner
of the general land office, it shall not be indispensable for all of them to make affidavit of its
loss, and of their respeotive portions, unless there is reason to believe that fraud .is intended. 
§ 1162. fl4] The commissioner of the general land office shall not issue a patent upon
any bounty or donation warrant, required by this act to be approved, unless the same has been
approved. He shall not issae a patent upon a bounty or donation warrant issued to an assignee
since the 24th day of November, 1851, until two years from the date of its approval shall have
elapsed, except by order of a decree of a court of competent jurisdiction to try the rights of the
grantee IIIMi assignee. 
§ 1163. (16) .All oral evidence submitted to said commissioner of claims, shall be reduced 
to writing, and signed by the party giving it, and shall then be sworn to before said commis­
sioner, or his chief clerk, who shall be authorized to administer oaths in all cases required in
the discharge of the duties of their office, and all such. evidence, and all testimony issued before 
said commissioner, shall be by him preserved and filed.
· ART. 1164:. (16] Tbe.t said commiBBioner of claims shall report monthly to the commissioner
of the general land office, a descriptive list of all certificates which he has issued and approved 
for the month previous, and he shall anDually make a report, on the first day of September, to 
the governor, of the number and description of certificates that he has issued and e.pproved for
the year previot'.ls. 
§ 1165. [l'l] He shall demand and receive a fee of one dollar for each duplicete he may
issue ; two dollars for each certificate to a railroad oompany ; five dollars for each ceru.6.cate of
a league or over; three dollars for each certificate of twelve hundred and eighty acres, or over
that amount, and less than one league; and two dollars for each certificate for less than twelve
hundred a.nd eight.y acres that be may issue, whether head-rights, bounties, or donations i and all
copies fvruishcd from said office shall be: charged for at tho rate of fifteen cent.s per hundred 
• 
words, and flf\y cents for the eertificato and seal ; and shall account for, and pay over all such
fees quarterly, to the stale treasurer. 
§ 1166. (18] Said commissioner of claims shall hereafter lssuo all land certificates to 
railroad companies, which tho eommlssionor of the general land office, or a former eommisslouer 
of claims, was authorized to issue, nuder any law of tho state; and all applications for such eer­
tlflcatos shall hereafter be presented to the said commissioner of claims, in the same manner
that they were heretofore required to be presented to the commissioner of t.he general land
office. 
§ 1167. (19] The said commissioner of claims shall not act as the agent of any person
for the prosecution of a elairn of nny description against the republic or state of Texas ; nor as
the agent of any person in locating lands, or procuring patents for lands; nor as the agent in
and about the registry, approval, or issuance, of any land certificate; nor shall ho hereafter
purchase &Dy interest in any elaim for land, requiring his approval, or for money against tho
republic or state of Texas; and if he shall violate any of the provisions of this section, he shall,
on conviction therefore, be fined in u sum not less than two thousand dollars, and shall thereafter
be ineligible to bold any office in this state. Nor shall any of tho clerks employed in said office, 
act 88 the agent of any person about tho approval of nny claim, nor u.s the agent of any one in
locating lands, or the issuance of any certificate; nor shall they purchase any interest in any
claim, requiring the approval of said commissioner, nor for any money against the republic or
state of Texas. If any one shall violate any of the provisions of this section, he shall, on con­ 
viction therefore, bo fined iu a sum not lesa than five hundred dollars, and shall be dismissed 
from office. 
§ 1168. (20] Said commissioner of claims shall also perform the duties imposed upon
the auditor, by the provisions of an act to provide for ascertaining tho debt of tho late republic
of Texas, approved March 20th, 1848, so far only as to audit claims for military service, in the 
same manner and under like restrictions; and every person having a claim against the republic
of Texas, for such ser~cC', shall present the same to the commissioner of claims and comptroller
of public accounts, on or beforo the first day of June, 1861, or the same shall be forever barred. 
§ ll li9. [21] When any claim is presented to said officers, under the provisions of the
next preceding section, if the party shall present to said officers such vouchers and proof in 
support thereof, as would have permitted it to be audited under tho law of the republic of 
Texas, they shall jointly receipt for the flame under their hands and seals of office, setting forth
the par value thereof, at the time accrued, the name of the person to whom it accrued, tho date 
and amount thereof; nnd such reoeipts shall be paid by the state treasurer whenever an appro­
printion is made therefore. 
§ 1170. (22] That said commissioner shall procure and use a seal similar to the one
heretofore used by the commissioner of claims, for tho authentication of all instruments of 
writing emanating from his office.
ABT. 1171. [2J_J 'l'liat all the postage incident to tho correspondence of said court, shall be 
paid by the state, in the surue manner and uudor tho same regulations as that of other officers
of the· state. 
§ 1172. (2·1] All original applications, either for head-rights, or military lands, not pre· 
sented to said connulssioner of claims on or before tLe first day of Juue, 1A61, shall be forever
barred. 
§ 1173. (26] That all laws and parts of laws conflicting with this act, be and the same
are hereby repealed; and that this act take effect and be in force from and after its passage. 
AN ACT SUPPLEMENT.ARY TO AN ACT ENTITLED "AN ACT TO REORGANIZE THE
COURT OF CLAIMS, A:ND EXTEND' THE TIME FOR THE PRESENTATION OF 
CLAlllS FOR LA.ND AGAL~ST THE REPUBLIC OR STATE OF TEXAS." .APPROVED
FEBll.UARY 7TH, 1860. 
§ 117 4. (1] That the commissioner of said court shall, upon satisfactory proof that any
person has been permanently disabled by the loss of an eye, arm, or limb, or any other bodily
injury which makes him incapable of bodily labor, from wounds received in the service of the
republic of Texas previous to the 18th of December, 1837, issue to such person a certificate for
one league of land, as a testimony of the gratitude of this state, and that said certificates may 
be located and patented as in other cases: Provided, that no certificate shall be issued under
t.ho provisions of this act, unless the applicant would have been so entitled under the pro vi­ 
sions of t.he act of December 18th, 18:17, entitled an net making provisions for persons who
have been permanently disabled in the service of tho country. And further provided, that the
party applying has not heretofore received this bounty. 
~ourts, Justitts' . 
.Ali ACJr TO ORGANIZE JUSTICES' COURTS, AND TO DEFINE THE POWERS AND
JURISDICTION OF THE SAllE. 
ABT. 1175. (1689) [I] There shall be elected by the qualified electors of
each justice's precinct, m the several counties of this state, on the first Monday 
in August, 1848, and every two years thereafter, two justices of the peace, 
who shall hold their offices for the term of two years, and until their succes­
sors shall be elected and qualified according to law; and shall be commissioned
by the governor. 
§ 1176. (1690) [2] That before any justice of the peace shall enter
upon the duties of his office, he shall execute a bond, with two or more good
and sufficient sureties, in the sum of five hundred dollars. payable to and
approved by the chief justice of the county, conditione.l that he sh:111 wc-ll
and truly account for and pay over to the county treasurer of the county, all
money that may come to his hands, for the use of the county; and also that
he shall well and truly account for and pay over to the treasurer of the state,
all money that may come to his hands for the use of the state; and also, that
he shall well and truly account for and pay over to the person entitled to
receive the same, his ag-e11t, or attorney, all money that may come to his hands,
in any suit or action between parties; and he shall also take the oath of office
prescribed by law, before some officer authorized to administer oaths, which
shall be indorsed on his bond, together with the certificate of the officer who
administered the s.ime ; such bond and oath shall be returned to and recorded 
in the office of the clerk of the county court of the county in which such
justice was elected. 
§ 1177. [3] That the bond of a justice of the peace may be sued upon,
in the name of any party or parties injured by a breach thereof; and shall
not be void on a first recovery, but may he sued upon from \i1rn~ to time until
the whole amount of the renalty is recovered. 
§ 1178. (1691) [ 4 That whenever the bond and oath 0£ a justice of
the peac<' have been returned to nnd recorded in the office of tho clerk of the
county court, such justice may immediately enter upon the dut ies of his office,
and his acts shall be as valid as if he had been commissioned by the governor. 
§ 1179. (1692) [.5] That when any person has boon elected a justice
of the peace, and neglects to execute a bond, :md take the oath of office, as
prescribed by this act, within twenty duys after he shall have been declared
to be elected, such election shall be deemed void, and the chief justice of the
county shall immediately order another election. 
§ 1180. (1693) [6] That any justice of the peace who shall be guilty
of any malconduct or misdemeanor in office, mny be prosecuted by indict­
ment of the grand jury of bis cooity, and on conviction thereof in the district
court, shall be removed from office, and the office shall he declared vacant ; 
any justice oft he peac(' who shall be so removed, shall be thereafter incapable
of holding the office of jui-tice of the pL·acc in this state. 
§ 1181. (J 694) L7] That whenever there shall be a vacancy in the
office of justice of the peace, before the expiration of two yC':irs after a regular
election, by death, n•if~nation, removal, or otherwise, the chief justice of the
county, where such vacancy oxists.ishall forthwith order an election to fill
such vacancy; and the person so elect ell, shall hold his office for the unexpired
term, and until a successor shall be elected and qualified, · 
§ 1182. (1695) L8] Every justice of the peace shall keep a docket, in
which be shall enter all examinations and trials for criminal offenses before
him, the nature of the offense, the time when the ex.uuinat ion was baa, 
statin~ whether such trial was by a jury or by himself, the verdict of the
jury, if any, the judgment rendered by the justice, and the time when it was
rendered, and how the same was executed; ho shall also keep a docket, in
which he shall enter : first, the titles of all suits commenced before him ;
second, the time when the first process was issued against the defendant,
when it was returnable, and the particular nature thereof; third, the time
when the parties or either of them, appeared before him, either without
citation, or upon the return thereof; fourth, a brief statement of the
nature of the plaintifff's demand or claim and the amount claimed, and a
brief stntorueut of the nature of the defense made by the defendant (if any) ;
filth, every adjournment stating at whose request, and at what time; sixth,
the time when the trial was bad, s:ating whether the same was by a jury, or
hy the justice ; seventh, the verdict of the jury (if any); eighth, the jndg­
ment rendere.l by the justice, and the time of rendering the same; ninth, a1I 
applications for setting- a .. ide judgments, or granting new trials, and the
order of the justice thereon, with the date thereof; tenth, the time of issuing
execution, the name of the officer to whom it was directed, and the amount 
of the debt, damages, and costs; and when any execution is returned, he
shall note such return on said docket, with the manner in which it was exe- 
outed ; eleventh, all stays and appeals that may be taken, and the time when 
taken. 
440. Tbe ftrt1t claoee ts auperseded by tho Cl!.IIUNAL PBoc1:DUB.L Seca. 283-2:16. The ttme or Issuing the 
summone, not or !Hing the note, 111 the commencement or the aetlon, so 118 to interrupt the statute or limitations. 
Keeble v. Bailey, 8 T1ix. 492. 
§ 1183. (1696) [9] If from any cause whatever, a justice of the peace
shall vacate his office, all books and papers belonging to, or appertaining to
bis office, shall be delivered to the person elected, nnd qualified to fill such
vacancy, whenever demanded by him; and upon receiving such books and
papers, he shall proceed with all judgments, executions, and unfinished busi­
ness therein contained, in like manner, as if the same had been commenced 
by himself.
§ 1184. (1697) r10] Any person or persons, having the possession of 
any books or pap<>rs, belonging, or appertaining to the office of a justice,
that has become meant, who shall neglect or refuse to deliver them to the
person elected and qualified to fill snch vacancy, when demanded by him,
may upon the motion of any peri.on interested in such hooks or papers, be
attached and imprisoned, hy order of any judgl'of the district court of this
state, until he shall so deliver such hooks and papers: Provided, that such
motion shall be supported hy affidavit, and three days' previous notice thereof
shall be given to the person or persons ngninst whom such motion is made. 
§ 1185. (1608) [11] ,vhenever any justice of the pence shall be
elected and qualified under the provisions of this act, he shall demand of his
predecessor, all hooks and papers that may be in his possession, belonging or
appertaining to. his office; and npon receiving such books and papers, said 
justice shall proceed, with all executions, judgments, and unfinished business,
therein contained, in like manner as if the same had been commented before
himself; and any person or persons, having th« possession of any such books
or papers, who shall nrgleet or refuse to deliver them, when so demanded,
mny be proceeded against in like manner as provided for in the previous
section. 
§ 1186. (1609) (12] All judgments and final orders, given hy any
justice of the peace, in any suit or prosecution, civil or criminal, shall be 
given in open court. 
441. Sections 17 to 29 lnclusfn (except sec. 2l>). have been repealed and supplted by the Com1: OF Cann- 
JU.L Paoosutrae, seettons 28 us~. See also anu, p. 59, sees, 171 18, and 19, and notes 187, lSS, and lb'D, for
the Jnrl8dlction or Justi~s. The crhninal Jnrladictlon in sec. 20, .Dll8 been 8Uperseded.-En. . 
§ 1187. {1712) r2s] Justices of the peace shall have and exercise
jurisdiction to try all 'breaches of the peace, riots, and affrays, and assaults 
and batteries committed in their respective counties : Provided, that they 
shall not have jurisdiction finally to try any such offense, where any deadly
weapon was used or at tempted to he nsed ; nor where the fine or penalty
shall exceed one hundred dollars; they shall also have jurisdiction to try all 
misdemeanors where the fine, forfeiture, or penalty shall not exceed one hundred dollars; they shall also have jurisdiction to try all suits and actions in
behalf of the state or any county thereof; or any individual to recover penalties, fines, and forfeitures, where such penalty, fine, or forfeiture, shall not
exceed one hundred dollars ; they shull also have jurisdiction to try all snits
in behalf of the state, or nny county thereof, for any violation of the revenue
law of this state, where the matter in contfoversy shall not exceed one hundred dollars. They shall also have jurisdiction in all snits and notions for
the recovery of monC'y on ::my account, hill, bond, note, or other instrument
of writing; of all snits and actions for the recovery of specific articles, or
the value thereof, of all suits and actions for torts, trespasses, and other
injuries to person or property, where the amount elaimel, or the value of the
articles or the damages imug!1t to be recovered, shall not exceed one hundred
dollars, exclusive of interest and costs. They shall also have and exercise
jurisdiction over all other matters not herein enumerated, that may be cog­
nizable before a justice of the peace, under the laws of this state. 
§ 1188. (1717) [30] No person shall be sued before anr justice of the
peace, except in the precinct where such person resides, or m the precinct
where the cause of action accrued, if in the same county : Provided, how­
ever, that if there be no justice of the peace in the precinct where the
defendant resides, then such defendant may be sued in the nearest precinct
where there is a justice: Provided also, that where a defendant has no fixed
place of board or residence, he may be sued before any justice of the peace
m the county: and provided, also, that when a defendant resides in au incor­
porated city or town. then he may be sued before any justice of the peace,
within the limits of the incorporation. In all cases the residence of a mar­
ried man shall be deemed to be where his family resides, and that of a single 
man where he boards. 
448. The dl'r('nrlant11 must be sned before tho court havlnir jurlMlfotlon over the terrttortes of their domicile.
with such exceptions as are ~J)<'dnlly provided !or by Ju.w. Philflo v. Blyth. 12 Tex. 126. In mixed t"'nsaetlons,
where the cause or action partly accrues In one pine" and partly In another, the snit should he brought In the 
precinct whert> the contract WM to be performed, not where It wu made ; and tfile Is t'!l)leclally I\O. It the
dl'f,·n<lnnt n-stdcs in tho precinct where the contract w1111 to b" p,,rrormc~I. (:1-mlth's Lca<ltuic Ca,;('!!, 863. and 
Chitty on Plcn<llnic~. p, 2S'l.) ld. 126, 121. A jmtice or the peace cannot go nut of his precinct to try a cause. 
Foat-Or v. McAdlLlils, 9 'l'ox. M4. 
§ 1180. (1718) [31) All process from a justice of the peace, except
in criminal cases, shall be under the hand of such justice, directed to some
lawful officer, whose duty it shall be to execute and return the same; all such
process shall be returnable, except in cases where it is otherwise provided for
by law, to some regular term of such justice's court, and shall be served by
leaving a.copy thereof, with the defendant, at least five days before the return
day, exclusive of the day of service and return day. 
§ 1190. (! 71_9) (:32) Whenever, in any civil suit be~ore ~ _justice of
the peace, the plaintifff, his agent, or attorney, shall make oath m wntmg, before 
such justice of the peace, that the defendant is absent from this state, or that
he is a transient person, so that the ordinary process of law cannot be served
upon him, such justice shall issue a citation, directed to some lawful officer,
commanding him to cite the defendant to appear at some regular term of his
court to answer the plaintifff's complaint, stating the nature and amount
thereof; such citation shall be returnable at some regular term of such
Justice's court, and shall be published in some newsp:1per printed in the county, 
' if there be one, for at least three successive weeks before the return day; if 
there be no newspaper printed in the county, then it shall be published in
like manner, in some newspaper printed in the nearest county where there is
one. 
444. The rlatntttl' should sb'.lctly comply with thl11 seetton before be la entitled to jndgmenL Edrington 
Y. All11bruoka, 2 Tei. 189. There muet not only be t.hree eucceaslve weekly publlesttons, but the tint muat be 
twenty-one full day• before the judgment by doraulr, \.bat ta, excluding t.he 1lnt day of publication, and t.ke re­ 
tarn day ot the writ. Hill v. Falson, ~ Tei. '81. 
ABT. 1191. (1720) [33] Any person may appear before any Justice of the
peace and confess a judgment, for any amount within the jurisdiction of a
Justice of the peace, without the issuance of any citation ; and all such con­
fessions of judgment shall be recorded, in like manner as other judgments. 
445. Thia authority may be delegated by a power tn t.he contract. Parker T. Poole, 12 T!'1. 66. 
§ 1192. {1721) [341 When a defendant, who has been served with a
citation from a Justice of tbe peace, according to law, shall neglect to appear,
at or before two o'clock P. M. of the return day of the citation, or at or be­ 
fore the same hour of any day to which the cause may have been continued,
the justice shall proceed in the following manner :-1st. If the plaintifff's 
· cause of action is liquidated, and proved by any instrument in wnting pur­ 
porting to have been executed by the defendant, the justice shall, whether 
the plaintifff appear or not, after allowing the proper credits for all payments
indorsed on such instrument in writing, render judgment by default, against
the defendant, for the amount which shall· appear by such instrument in 
Google 
writing, to be due to the plaintifff, together with the costs of suit, 2d. If
the plaintifff's cause of action is not liquidated, and the plaintifff appear in
person, or by agent or attorney, the justice shall proceed to hear his allega­
tions and proofs, and shall determine the cause, as shall appear from the tes­
timony: to be right ; and if it shall appear from such testimony that the
plaintifff is entitled to recover, judgment shall be rendered by default against
the defendant, for such amount as the testimony shows the plaintifff to be en­
titled to, with costs ; but if it do not appear, that the plaintifff ought to
recover, jud_g!11ent shall be given for the defendant, against the plaintifff for
costs. sd. u the plaintifff fail to appear, at or before 2 o'clock P. M. of the
return day of the citation, or at or before the same hour of any day to which
the cause may have been continued, except in the case herein before provided,
the justice shall render judgment of nonsuit against the plaintifff, with costs. 
ABT. 1193. (1722) (35] Every justice of- the peace shall have power,
upon good cause shown, supported by affidavit, to set aside a judgment by
default, or of nonsuit, at any time within ten days after the same was ren­
dered : Provided, that one day's notice of such application, shall be given to
the opposite party, his agent or attorney, by the party applying, and in such
cases the suit shall be continued to the next term of such justice's court. 
§ 1194. (1723) (36] When both parties in any suit, before a justice
of the peace, appear in person, or by agent or attorney, at the time appointed
for the trial thereof, or at the time to which it may have been continued, if 
the amount in controversy shall not exceed ten dollars, or if the amount in
controversy shall exceed ten dollars, and neither party shall make applica­
tion to have the cause tried by a jury, the justice shall proceed to hear the
allegations and proofs of the parties ; and the defendant, upon giving notice
thereof to the plaintifff before the trial commences, shall be allowed to present
and prove any claim or demand, not exceeding one hundred dollars, exclu­
sive of interest, against the plaintifff that is similar in its character to the
claim or demand of the pluintiff ; and the snit shall be determined by the 
justice as from the testimony shall seem to be right. If it shall appear from
the testimony, that the plaintifff is entitled to recover, judgment shall be en­
tered in his favor, for such amount as shall appear to be due him, with costs;
but if it shall appear from the testimony, that the defendant is entitled to
recover, then judgment shall be entered in his favor, for such amount as
shall appear to be due him (if any), with costs. If the amount in controversy
shall exceed ten dollars, and either party shall make application to have the
case tried by a jury, then the snme shall be so tried, in Jike manner aJ.1 here­
inbefore provided; and upon the return of the verdict of the jury, the jus­
tice shall enter judgment thereon, with costs : Provided, however, that
whenever it shall appear on any such trial, that the defendant's claim .;>r de­ 
mand, was acquired after the commencement of the plaintifff's suit, the
defendant shall be liable for all the costs. 
446. It wa.s competent for tho defendant to prove, by parol evldcnce, that the present aml rorm<'r sutt
were for the Mme enuse ohotlon. (Foster v. Wells, 4 TeL 101, 105.) Ballev v, Knight, 8 Tex. 6L After tho
Jnstice had submttted II case to tho Jury upon tho merits. ho had no nnthority to withdraw it from them. and
dismiss the ease. Id. 61. It W&i! the right or tho plnlntltf (or defendants) to have II trial by Jury, on whose ver­
diet It was the duty of tho justleo to glrn Judgment. Id. Tho funner j11d!('111cnt, when upon the morlts. I~ not 
only a bar to the matter aetually determined, but nlso llll to every other matter which the partles mljrht lltli;r11te
in the esuse, Foster 'f'. Weill\, 4 T,•x. 104. This C3Se revl e ws many of the anthorlttes upon former recoveries,
Under our 11ystcm, nil distinctions (M to forms or action) are wholly Jl~re,r.ir1led In the 1,rlnirln2' of' a 11nlt In tho
district court, and still less reicllr41 to forms Is required In the court of ajustlce or the penee. K<')l,•rs v. Repplen,
9 Tex. 446. It ls wholly Immaterial by whnt name tho justtce or the peace thought proper to coll the action. if
the facts entitled the plalntUr tn a judgment. Id. Wo are to overlook matters or form, in proeeedtnes t.erore
Justices of the peace, IIJlO to reirard only the merits. Clay v. Clay, 1 TeL 2M ObjecUons to tho eomplelnt must 
be taken before the Jn&tlce. Id. 
ABT. 1195. (1725) [38] Justices of the pence shall have power to enforce
the attendance of witnesses, and to compel them to give evidence in their
county, by attachment and imprisonment, 
§ 1196. (1726) [39] On the trial of any civil suit, before a justice of
the peace, if either party shall make oath, that he 'knows of no witness, by 
whom he can prove a fact that is material to his claim or defense, except 
himself, the party making such oath shall be examined touching such fact;
and either party to any snch suit may cause the other party to be subpoenaed 
and examined as a witm-ss. '
§ 1197. {1727) (40] Upon all trials by a jury before a justice of the 
pence, if any exceptions nre taken to a:.nr deposition or evidence, the same
shall be decided by the justice. · · · · 
§ 1198. (1788) [ 46] Any justice of the peace, before whom any sni1i
or proceeding is pending, may, for good cause shown by either party, and
supported by affidavit, continue the same to the next term of his court ; and
if such cause or proceeding is such as can be tried by such justice at any
other time than at a regular term, he shall have the like power to continue
the same for a reasonable time. 
§ 1199. (1'134) (47J Any justice may, for a good cause shown, sup­
ported by affidavit in writing, grant a new trial in any civil suit tried before
him, whenever he shall consider that justice has not been done in the trial of
such case : Provided, however, that all applications for a new trial shall be
made within ten days after the rendition of judgment, and one day's notice
of the application shall be given to the opposite party, his agent or attorney:
Provided, also, that not more than one new trial shall be granted to either
party ; and in all cases where a new trial shall be granted, the cause shall be 
continued to the next term of the court. 
44'J. Arter the Judgment 111 rendered, theJnetlet> can only re-acquire jnrll!dlctlon to beAragntn, by a motion
for a new trial, of which one <lay'11 notice 11hall have been given to. the opposite party, before oonslderfng the 
motion for a new trial Aycock v. Williams, 18 Tex. 896. Notloe after the new trial haa been granted, la not
11ulilcient. Id. 
§ 1200. ( l '135) [ 48] In all proceedings before a justice of the peace,
in which either party may be entitled to a jury, and shall make application
for one, such jury shall be composed of six men, and the justice shall forth­
with issue a writ directed to some lawful officer of the county, commanding
him to summon forthwith six disinterested freeholders, or householders, to 
serve as a jury ; and if any per8on so summoned shall fail or refuse to attend,
he may be fined by the justice three dollars, for the use of the county, for
such failure or neglect, unless he shall show to such justice good cause for
such failure or neglect, after being cited so to do. In all trials for criminal
offenses, either the person prosecuting, or the accused, may challenge two of
such jurors without assigmng any cause therefore; and in all trials, whether
civil or criminal, either party may challenge. any number of jurors for
cause; which cause shall he judged of by the justice. If, from challenges,
or any other cause, a sufficient number of the jury do not attend, the justice
shall order some lawful officer to summon a sufficient number of qualified
jurors to make up the jury. ,vhen a jury is formed, the justice shall admin­
ister to them an oath or affirmation, in form as follows :-" You and each
of vou do solemnly swear [ or affirm, as the case may be], that you will well
and truly try the cause about t9,... be submitted to rou, and a true verdict
give therein according to thc~dence: so help you God." 
§ 1201. (1'136) [491 Whenever a jury ha.s been formed in a justice's
court, the same jury may be called on to try all causes before such justice, in
which a jury is required, on the same day, without the necessity of a new
writ in each case: Provided, however, that jurors shall be sworn for each
cause. 
§ 1202. (1 '73'1) [50] In all cases before justices of the peace, other
than prosecutions for offenses against the laws of this state, the party apply­
ing for a jury shall, before the trial commences, pay a jury fee of three
dollars, which shall be equally divided between the jurors trying the cause;
and if the party P.aying such fee, shall recover judgment, the jury fee shall
be taxed in the bill of costs, and when collected shall be refunded to him ;
and in all trials before a justice of the peace, which shall be tried by a jury,
when the jury fee is not required to be paid before the trial commences, a
like jury fee shall be taxed in the bill of costs, and when collected shall be
equally divided between tho jurors who tried the same. 
ART.1203. (1'138) [51] Every person who shall have a cause of action
against another, within the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace, who shall
make oath in writing before such justice, that he is too poor to pay the fees
of such action, shall be entitled to all process necessary for the trial of
suc!h action, and to have a trial thereof, free of costs. 
[ AN .A.Cfr TO AMEND AN A.CT ENTITLED " AN ACT TO .A.l(END AN ACT ENTITLED
AN A.err TO ORGANIZE JUSTIOES' COURTS, A.ND TO DEFINE THE POWERS 
~ .JURISDICTION OF THE S.A..Ml!l.'' APPROVED FEBRUARY '7TB, 1861. 
§ 1204. [1] That the first section of said act shall hereafter read as
follows:·-" 52. A justice of the peace may.grant a stay of execution on any 
Judgment for money rendered by himself on a civil snit for three months :"
Provided, the person or persons against whom such judgment was rendered
shall, with one or more good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by such
justice, appear before him and acknowledge themselves and each of them
bound to the successful party in such sum as shall secure the amount of the 
judgment, interest, and cost; which ack1l0wledgment shall be entered by
the justice on his docket, and shall have the force and effect of a judgment
against the persons making the acknowledgment, upon which execution
shall issue for the amount of the original judgment, interest, and costs, in
case the same shall not be paid, on or before the expiration of such stay :
Provided, that no such stay shall be granted unless applied for and perfected
within ten days of the recovery of the original judgment."] 
448. The amended section read "nine months." Tho above ls but a re-enactment of the ortglnal eeetlon 
D'J. before It waa substituted by the "nine months'" stay of the 7th Febru&ry, 1861.-ED. 
ABT. 1206. (1'140) [63] Any party, his agent or attorney, may appeal from any final judg­
ment rendered by a justice of the peace, to the district court of the county: Provided he shall
within um days after the entry of such judgment, file with such justice a bond, with one or
more good and sufficient sureties, in a sum equal at least to double the amount of such judg­
ment, interest, and costs, payable to the plaintifff, conditioned that the party appealing shall
prosecute his appeal to effect, or shall pay and satisfy the judgment or decree that may be made
or rendered by the district court against the obligors in such bond. 
§ 1206. (1741) (64] In all cases where an appeal shall be taken from a justice's court 
to the district court, it shall be the duty of the justice from whose judgment such appeal was
taken, immediately to mak~ out a transcript of his entries made on his docket in such caso, and
file the same with the original papers of the cause with the clerk of the district court, on or
before the first day of the term of said court, next after such appeal was taken; but if there
is not time for such transcript and papers to be filed at such firsL term, then they shall be so
filed at the next succeeding term of said court. 
449. Seetion& 118 and M declared nneonstltutlonal In Titus v. Latimer, IS Tex. 488; O'Brien v. Donn, Id.
670; Gray v. Maddo~d. IS28. 
A:e.T. 1207. (1742) f56) That all executions issued by a justice of the
peace, shall be directed" to some lawful officer of the state, and shall be re­
turnable to his court in sixty days. It shall be the duty of the officer, to
whom any such execution is directed, to execute and return the same, on or
before the return day thereof; and all the provisions of the laws regulating
executions from the district courts, where the same are not inconsistent with
the provisions of this act, shall apply to and govern executions from justices
of the peace, so far as the same are applicable. 
§ 1208. (l '148) [57} In cases of emergency, any justice of the peace
may depute any person o good character, io execute any process, civil or 
criminal : Provided, that in every such case, the justice shall certify on the
back of such process, that the person is so deputed by him ; and the person
so deputed, shall take and subscribe an oath, that he will execute such process according to law, which oath, with the certificate of the justice, that it
was administered, shall be indorsed on or annexed to such process. 
§ 1209. (1 '144) [58] Justices of the peace shall have power to admin­
ister oaths of office iii all cases, and also all other oaths or affirmations, and
to give certificates thereof. 
ABT. 1210. (1746) [60] No suit shell be brought before any justice of
the peace where he may be interested, or where he may be related to either
the plaintifff or defendant, within the third degree of consanguinity or affinity;
but in all such cases, suit shall be brought before the nearest justice, not so 
interested or related.
§ 1211. (17 47) [61] In all cam:i where a suit shall be brought before a 
justice of the peace for the recovery of specific articles, on the trial thereof,
the jury or justice, as the case may be, shall, if they find for the plaintifff,
assess the value of such articles separately; and if the plaintifff recover, judg,ment shall be rendered for the specific article or articles, if to be had ; but if
not, then for their value; and the justice shall.issue thereon, his writ directed
to some lawful officer, commanding him to put the plaintifff in possession of
the article or articles so recovered, if to be found; but if not, then to proceed
and make the value of such article or articles, with the legal interest from the
date of judgment, and costs, as under execution ; and every justice shall, from
time to time, when required by a party having a judgment-in bis court, issue 
such executions, or other writs, as may be necessary to enforce such judg- 
ment. until the same shall have been satisfied. 
§ 1212. (1750} [64] Each justice of the peace shall hold a term of bis
court once in each month, and may transact such business out of said term as
is authorized by law ; [ and the justices of the peace of each precinct in the
state, shall be divided into two classes by the chief justices of their respective
counties, who shall cause a record of such division to be made in the county
court ; and those justices belonging to the first class, shall hold their court on
the first Saturday of each month; and those of the second class, shall hold
their court on the last Saturday of each month.*] 
451. Tho lnw does not authorize the summons to be returnable on the eeooud Saturday in the month.
Inge v. Benson, 11> TcL 816. 
§ 1213. (1751) [65] No justice shall render a judgment upon any
attachment or sequestratron, unless the defendant shall have been cited either
personally or by publication. 
§ 1214. (1752) [66] The justice of the peace, when he issues a citation
in a civil suit, shall insert in the citation, the cause of action, or indorse it
thereon. 
§ 1215. (1754) r6s] That this act shall take effect and be in force OD 
and after the first l\Ionclay in August, 1848 ; and on and after that day " An
act to or~anize justices' courts, and to define the powers and jurisdiction of
the same, ' passed 11th .l\Iay, A. D. 1846, shall be, and is hereby repealed. 
452. The act of the 11th May, lf46. likewise ~VI.' [urtsdtctton In matters of one hundred dollars; required
process to be returnable from ten t~> thirty duys ; required service in person, or by publication; and in its other 
general provislons, it did not materially vw-y from the act or 18-'S.-BD. 
AN A.CT SUPPLEMENTARY TO " AN A.CT TO ORGANIZE JUSTICES' COURTS, A.ND
TO DEFINE THE POWERS AND JURISDICTION OF THE SA.ME.'' APPROVED 
20TH DAY OF MARCH, .A. D. 1848.
§ 1216. (1755) [l] In all cases where two or more persons are liable 
to be jointly sued before a justice of the peace, such suit may be brought
before any justice of the peace in the precinct where either of the defendants 
may reside. 
AN A.CT TO PROVIDE FOR THE SERVIOE OF PROCESS ISSUING FROH JUSTICES'
COURTS, IN CERTAIN CASES. 
§ 121 '1. [1] In all suits brought in a justice's court against two or
more defendants, jointly liable, and where one or more of the defendants
reside out of the county where suit is instituted, the justice of the peace
before whom suit is brought, shall issue process to the sheriff, or any constable
of the county or counties where such defendant or defendants are alleged to
reside, and the officer to whom such process is directed shall serve the same
as in other cases, and make his return to the court from which the process
issued. 
§ 1218. [2] That where there are two· or more defendants in a suit,
and one or more are served with process, in due time, and others not so
served, the plaintifff may either discontinue as to those not so served ; and
proceed against those that are, or he may continue the snit until the next
term of the court, and take new process against those not served, and no
defendant ngainst whom any suit may be discontinued, according to the pro­
visions of this section, shall be thereby exonerated from any liability under
which be wns, but may at any time be proceeded against as if no such suit
had been brought, and no such discontinuance entered as to such defendants:
Provided, that this section shall not be so construed as to allow a plaintifff to
discontinue as to the principal, and take judgment against the indorser or 
surety who is jo~tly sued . 
.A.N ACT SUPPLEMENTARY TO A.N A.CT ENTITLED" AN ACT TO ORGANIZE JUS­
TICES' COURTS, AND TO DEFINE THE POWERS A.ND JURISDICTION OF THE
SAME." AIJPROVED 20TH MARCH, A. D. 1848, 
§ 1219. [l] Should the office of justice of the peace, within any county
of the state of Texas, become vacant by death, resignation, or otherwise, it
shall be lawful for any justice of the peace, within such county, to proceed to 
try and dispose of all such unfinished business as may be on the docket of
such justice who may have vacated his office as aforesaid, until a successor
shall have been elected and qualified. 
ABT. 1220. [2] If from sickness, absence from the county, or from any
other cause, not amounting to a vacation of his office, any justice of the peace
shall fail to hold a regular term of his court, then and in that case, any other 
justice of the peace within the same county shall be, and is hereby authorized
to preside in the place and stead of such sick or absent justice, and to dis­ 
charge, perform, and transact all such business as may be necessary during
such absence. • • 
§ 1221. [31 If from any cause whatever, the regular term of a justice's
court should not l>e held at the time fixed by law, the business pending on
the justice's docket shall stand continued until the next regular term thereof;
and all business not disposed of at a regular term of such court, shall likewise
stand continued until the next regular term thereo£ 
§ 1222. [4] When any justice of the peace cannot dispose of all the
business on his docket on the regular days of holding his courts, he shall be,
and is hereby authorized to adjourn over and continue his court from day to
day, until the business of each term is fully disposed of; and he is further
authorized to adjourn any cause on his docket for trial to a particular day, by
agreement of parties. 
AN ACT AUTHORIZING THE UBE OF THE SPANISH LANGUAGE BEFORE J'US- 
TICES' COURTS IN CERTAIN CASES, .ilm IN Tllll: COUNTIES WEST OF THE 
GUADALUPE RIVER, 
§ 1223. [1] It shall be lawful in the counties west of the Guadalupe
river, except the counties of Nueces, San Patricio, and Refugio, to make use
of the Spanish language in all judicial proceedings before justices of the peace,
when neither the justice of the peace nor the parties are able to write or
understand the English language. · 
§ 1224. [2] In any case in which one of the parties only speaks the
English language, and the justice or either party is unable to speak the
English language, the cause may be removed, on motion, to the nearest 
justice of the peace speaking that language : Provided, that the English
=~uage shall be used in all cases in which any one of the parties interested 
only speak the English language. 
et.ourt s, et.ount11. 
453. It 111 not within the plan oftht11 work, to re~rlnt all the repealed and obsolete lo.w11 which have been 
ln force tn Texas respecttng successions and decedents cstatoe. They will be found In the Civil Corle or Louisl­
ana, and In Hartley's Dlgest, articles 280 to 2s-., and in tho .. repealed laws'' or Oldhnm & Whlto't1 Digest, ~o 
far u these laws have been the subject or judi11lal decisions, or have become the foundntion of real property,
they will be found tn the notes, In Brevter. In this way alone could the deelstons, wltlch otherwiee appear In·
30D11istent., be claS111flo<l. and In many instances, even seemingly reconciled. And It must be owned that, owing 
t.o a faUure to observe the frequent changes of statute law, the decisions upon this frulttul subject or lltigaUon 
ve not always reconcilable. 13ut for this the Editor is not responsible. 
A.N ACT TO ORGANIZE COUNTY COUltTS. 
§ 1225. (307) [I] There shall be in each county of this state an in­
ferior court, to be styled, "The County Court," which shall be composed
of one chief justice. 
454. The connty court Is a court of record, having common law jurfl!dlctlon wtthin the m('1mln, or the
act of eongress ; and as such, has ifOWer to issue letters or nntnrnllzatlon under said acts, .iJH. parte Burkhardt,
16 Tex. 470. Theftnit IICCtlon or the net or 20tlt December, 1886 (vol. 1, p. 148), declared. that tbe county courts
should be composed of one chtef Justlw, who shall be elected hy joint ballot or both bouses or eongrees, and 
shall bold hf11 office for a period or rour year&, and two assoctate jostloos, who shall be selected by a majority or
the justices or the peace of each count{, from among their own body, at tho beginning of each and every year.
It would seem, thereforee, that the cfile justice, acting ns such, did not and could not constitute the court. and
had no authority to approve the bond or the clerk or tho county court. Ir done by tho court, it should be
attested, In some way, to show It was done in open court. The State v. Purcell. 16 TeL 801. But this wu 
only an Intimation, and ~ary to Uu (UOfflQ7I. Wright v. Leath, 24 TeL 83. 
AN AOT ORGANIZING THE INFERIOR OOUBTS, A.ND DEFINING T.HB POWERS A.ND JUlUSDIOTION OF
THE BAKR.* 
.A.RT. (235) [6] The several county courts of this republic shall have original jurisdiction of
all suits and actions for the recovery of money, founded on any bond, bill, promissory note, or 
other written contract, covenant, or agreement whatsoever, or any open account, where the 
111m demanded shall exceed one hundred dollars; and shall have concurrent jurisdiction with 
the district courts, in all such suits and actions : Provided, that no suit relative t.o th,. ..tt!e o, 
~d shall be tried and determined in said court; and generally to do and perform all other
acts, and exercise all other powers, lawfully pertaining to a county court, within thia 
republic. 
§ (236) [7] All process from the county court shall be tested in the name of the cl.erk
thereof; shall issue and be returnable in the same manner and un<ler the same penalties as pre­
scribed in the act establishing the jurisdiction and powers of the district courts ; and all suits
and actions in said county courts shall be commenced and con~d in the same manner, aa
near as may be, aa provided in the forementioned act. 
Campbell v. TownM!nd, 24 TeL 618. Under the 6th section, a Judgment WU reoovored. Id. Congreea af­
terwards paaaed the following act:- 
AR .A.OT ENTITLED, "AN ACJ't TO REPEAL CERTAIN PARTS or AN AO'l' ORGA.NIZINO THE INl'BBJ08
OOURTB, AND DEFINING THE POWERS AND JURISDIO'l'ION 01' THE s .. ura." 
§ (265) (I] The sixth section of the aforesaid act, be. and the same is hereby repealed,
and that from and after the passage of this act, the chief justices of the respective counties of 
this republic, shall still sit and exercise the powers of probate judges, conservators of the
peace, commissioners of roads and revenues, and notaries public. 
[2] From and after the passage of this act, all powers and jurisdiction granted by law to 
the respective county courts of this republic, not enumerated and defined in this act, be, and
the same are hereby repealed, 
§ ( 267) [ 4] All process heretofore issued for an amount of one hundred dollars and up
wards, created by the law of eighteen hundred and thirty-six, shall by the judge and clerks or 
the respective county courts in each county be returned to the first term or the district conn
of counties respectively; and any judge or clerk of the respective counties neglecting or
refusing to comply with tho provisions of this act, shall be considered guilty of a high mis­ 
demeanor, and on conviction thereof before any court having cognizance of the same, be tined
in the sum of one thousand dollars, and shall moreover be liable to the party aggrieved in
damages. 
§ (268) [5] All appeals from the justices' courts shall as heretofore be returnable to the
co~ty courts, which appeal shall be tried <k nooo, and without the intervention of a jury. 
The IM!veral section!' compared. Campbell v. TownM>nd, 26 Tex, lH8. The l1teeotlon of Uie act of 96th Jan·
uary, 1889, repealed the 6th section of tho BCt or 20th December, 1 S36. And an&r thls, the eleru of tbe county 
oourta could not tssue excenttons upon judgments theretofore rendered ; nor could they certify 111ah Judgments
or execntlonL Id.; Moore v. Harris, l Tex. 41. And the lSth section ot the former act, l,?lvtng file said oourta
power to hear and determine all mouons agBlnst 11herltft1 or other officers, .to., wu lmplledly repealed by the 2d 
aectlon of the latter act. Moore v. Harris, 1 Tex. 41. The judgments of the county court.a, rendered after tbf
npe&l of the Jnrlldlcdon, were nullltiea. Id. 
§ 1226. §08) [2] The said court shall have the power to take probate
of wills, to appoint guardians, to grant letters testamentary, and of adminis­
tration, to settle the accounts of executors, administrators, and guardians, to 
transact all business appertaining to the estates of deceased persons, minors,
idiots, lunatics, and persons non compos mentis, and the settlement, partition,
and distribution of such estates; which powers shall be exercised in the
manner prescribed by law. 
455. Thie section 11 sufficiently broad to admit an administration to be granted, In all CIISe8 where the 
p:eneral object ot our system or probate law1 requires It, and to enable the ooort to grant admtnistratton, when
necessary, In respeet to any unadmtmstered property that may be found In tho state, whether It was here at the 
death or the party, or waa brought here aftorw1U"d11. (1 Williama on Executors, 248.. 249, 801; 8tory on the
Conflict or Laws, 811i; Btevene v. Gaylord, 11 Mass. 260, and the various common law and 11tate declslona, 
and the previous statutes are revfowed in this caee.) Green v. Rugely, 28 Tex. Ma Thia set ot 18'8, was a
thorough revision, amendment, and consolidation of our former probate system, both aa to the powers and
organiz11tlon or the court, and the rules of procedure In the admlnl11t1'11tlon ot estates. To give the court com­
mensnrate jurllldtctlon, the act o( the 20th December, 1886, was repealed. Id. Thb act contained the following
secucn, whlch mlghthnve been construed Into a llmitaUon, but which waa not Inserted, viz.:- 
§ (252) (24] The chief justices of the county courts shall be judges of probate for their
respective counties ; shall take the probate of wills; grant letters of administration on the
estates of persons deceased, who were inhabitants of, or resident in said county, at the time
of their decease ; shall appoint guardians to minors, idiots, and lunatics ; and in conjunctio•
with the associate justices, shall examine and settle the accounts of executors, administrators,
and guardians; and said chief justices shall have full jurisdiction of all testamentary and
other inatters·appert&ining to a probate court, within their respective counties. 
It ts Important to be ob11erved, that In the aot ot 18'S, there 11 nothing epeclfled 1111 to the court's Jnrladlct1011r 
.\II t~ death or the party tn the county, 1111 having P!'(>perty In the county at the time ot his death, and the like. 
Id. M9. The ftr1t and eeoond section ot the act of 1816, gave Jurtedlctlon 1111 follows:- 
§ (1083) [l] There shall be ellt.ablished in each county in this state a probate court, 
consisting of one judge, whose term of office shall be two years, and who shall be elected by 
the citizens of said county, who are legally qualified to vote for the representatives thereof in
the legislature. 
§ (1084) .[2] The ju~ of probate shall have power in open court, on due not~ given, to 
receive proof of wills, to order the same to be recorded, and to grant le"'3rs of executorship 01 
of adminlstration thereon, with the will annexed; to grant letters of administration in the fo1·
)owing order :-first, to the surviving husband or wife ; second, to the next kin of the intestatf
or testator; third, if none such claim or claiming are unable to give security, then to sucb
resident citizen of the county where such succession is opened, as can give sufficient bond.
and who, in the judgment of the judge of probate, will well and faithfully discharge the dutiec
of the trust ; to grant letters of guardianship, and if for minors under the age of fourteer 
years, first, to the surviving husb111d or wire ; second, to the t.eetamentnry guardian or next ot 
kin, or if they fail to claim, or are unable to give security, then to such resident citizen of the
county where the succession is opened, as can give tho required bond, and w1::(), in tho judgment or the judge, will well and faithfully discharge the duties of tho trust; to grant .eners of
guardianship for minors over fourteen years of age, at their request made in person in open
eoort ; to order inquisition to be made by a jury, of idiocy, lunacy, and of persons of unsound
mind; to grant letters of guardianship for idiots, lunatics, and persons non compo:; mentis ,· to
order inventories of the estates of such persons, and of such as are under guardians or
trustees; and on due notice served, after good cause shown, to revoko letters of administration
or of guardianship, not testamuntary, and to dismiss trustees; to order the sale of property for:
costs of court, and where proven necessary for the payment of debts of the intestate or
testator, or the payment of taxes, or the support or education of minors; and to direct U1e partition of property of estates. The court shall have power, either in term time or vacation, to 
demand any will, papers, or property, of the deceased person, or belonging to those subject to,
or under guardianship; to appoint and remove, without notice, administrators with limited
powers, and also to euspend the action of administrators, upon good cause shown, by petition
of any party interested ; to order the sale of perishable property; to appoint appraisers; to 
order all writs to issue that may be necessary to enforce his jurisdiction; to approve or die·
approve of claims acknowledged by an executor, administrator, or guardian; to approve or reject bonds; to require additional security on such as have been approved; to examine
accounts; to administer oaths or affirmations i to supervise, correct, and approve the minutes 
of the prooeedlngs of the court, as kept 'by the clerk. The court shall in no case grant letters
of executorship, administration, or guardianship. to tho clerk of the court of probate, but if
such clerk be interested in the estate or the deceased, or is named executor, or is entitled· to
guardianship, he may apply to the district court for letters of administration, testamentary, or
guardianship, and in all cases in which the probate judge or clerk -may ho so interested, the
district court shall have and exercise exclusive jurisdiction. 
Tl1i1 second and the 17th sections or the act or 1848, recognize the power or tho probate court over glll\rdlllns
and minors. Bernes v. Hardeman, Ui Tex. 867. And when the heirs petition for tho sale, by thclr ,.-uardlan, 
110 notice to them wu neccMary, Id. Tho ease dh1Un1tnlsho1l from tho admlnl11lmtor'11 1111!0 In lt'l11ch v. Ed­
munson. 9 Tex. :;(M, Id. Nor Is tho act In vlolatlon or tho 24th section uf tho 7th article of the atutc constitu­
tion. The term, "probate courts," la 11ufficlently anirgestive. Barnes v. Hardeman. 16 Tex. 867. And tr there 
wa11 t't'llud between the guardian and the first purcb!Mler (at his sale), lt tlld not affect a subeeqnent lonocent
purehaeer, (Sydnor v. Boberte, 18 Tex. 098.) Id. 
[ Ali ACT TO REGULATE PROCEEDINGS IN THE COUNTY COURT, PERTAINING
TO ESTATES OF DECEASED PERSONS. 
ABT. 1227. (1245) [136] In all cases where a chief justice may have been
executor or administrator of an estate, in the county where, and at the time
he was elected; or, when a chief justice may wish to probate a will, and
accept as the executor of the estate of a. testator, in the county where he
officiates; or, when he may be entitled to a distributive share of an estate
that is to be settled in his court, any two of the county commissioners shall
have power to do all acts pertaining to the settlement, partition, and distribu­
tion of such estates, that might be done by the chief justice.] 
458. The entire act ol 1848, waa repealed by this act or 1848. And this section WM subetttuted ror the
third section ot' the act defining the powers or the dJstrlct court, and the lut clause or the second section ot the 
act or 1846, relative to estates of deceased peraons, Glavecko v. Tljlrtna, 24 Tex. 6T1. In all these acts, the
Interest meant la a distributive share ln the estate. l1L Instead of tho dl&trict oourt now having exclusive 
jnrlr.dlctlon. the neceseity of carrying tho administrations Into that court, ls superseded by retatntnz tbetn lo the
county court, and providing a substttute there ror tho chief Jnstloo. Id. But whol'tl the chief justice's Interest 
la not embraced In the statutory provision, It Is presumed that no doubt will be entertained as to tho p_ower or
tho district court to fur.olsh a proper and specific remedy. (The State Constitution, art. IV. eeca. 8 and Hi; Newson
v. Crisman, 9 Tex. 118, and cases clted.) Id. That the chief Justice owns an undivided lntereat with the Intee­
tate in a tract or land, 111 no dlaquaill'ying interest. Id. 672.. 
[ AN ACT TO AUTHORIZE ANY TWO COUNTY COMMISSIONERS TO PERFORM THE
DUTIES OF CHIEF .JUSTICE OF THE COUNTY COURT WHEN SAID OFFICE 
18 VACANT, OR WHEN SAID OFFIC.ER IS ABSENT FROM THE COUNTY, OR
IS UNABLE OR DISQUALIFIED TO ACT .: 
§ 1228. (336) [1] Whenever the office of chief justice of any county
court in this state is vacant, or whenever the chief justice of any county court 
in this state shall be absent from the county, or unable to discharge the duties 
of his office, or shall be disqualified from attending to the duties of his office, 
by reason of interest, or from any other cause, then any two of the county
commissioners of such county shall have power to do and perform all the
duties of chief justice of the county court.] 
§ 1229. (309) [3] The said courts shall 1iave power to lay oft" and
divide their respective counties into convenient precincts for the election of
justices of the peace and constables, to establish places in such precincts
where elections shall be held ; to establish public ferries in their respective
counties, wherever the public interest may require ; to license ferrymen and
regulate the tolls to be charged at all public ferries in their counties; to lay
out and establish, change and discontinue public roads and highways; to 
build bridges; to appoint overseers and apportion hands, to work on public
roads, highways, and bridges; and said courts shall have and exercise general
control and superintendence over all roads, highways, bridges, and ferries in
their counties; said courts shall also have power, and it shall be their duty
to provide court houses, jails, and all necessary public buildings; to allow
and settle all county accounts, and direct their payment in such manner and
at such times as may meet the public interest ; to try contested elections for
county officers ; to appoint patrols for their respective counties, whenever in
their opinion the public welfare may require it; and to exercise general
jurisdiction over police matters in their respective counties; and it shall be
the duty of said courts to provide for the support of indigent persons resi­
dent in the county, who cannot support themselves, and for the burial of 
paupers. 
458. The "Indigent perNn11" must be residents or the county. Upshur Oountv -v. Yenry, 19 Tex. ltT.
There mn11t be a quorum or the court to try a contested election. And where the record showed that tbore W'U 
no quorum, and the contested election was submttted to urbttrators, whose decision wa.11 made the judgment,
the whole entrv was a nullity. Fitzhu{Ch v. Ouster, 4 Tex. 899. The county la not bound for provisions for a 
jury in the tliatrlct court. furnished by tho sheriff by order or the judge; but the jury themaelvea are liable.
White v. PADola County, 12 Tex. 174. 
§ 1230. (310) [4] The said county courts shall have power to levy
and collect a tax: for county purposes, upon all subjects of taxation in their
respective counties on which a tax may be levied by the state: Provided said
tax shall not exceed in any one year, one-half the amount of the tax levied
by the state on such subjects of taxation; and provided, also, that such tax 
shall be apportioned in the same manner as the state tax ; and the said tax:
upon all subjects of taxation, other than trades and occupations and profes­
sions, shall be assessed and co1lected by the assessor and collector of state
taxes, in the same manner as the state tax, and shall be paid by him into the
county treasury; and all of said taxes upon trades, occupations, and profes­
sions, shall be collected by the county treasurer in the same manner as the
state tax upon such subjects is collected, and the county treasurer shall have
the same power to enforce the collection of such taxes for the counties, as 
the assessor and collector has for the state.
§ 1231. (311) [5] The said courts shall examine aud adjust the 
accounts and books of the county treasurer, and shall annually cause a
detailed statement of all the receipts, expenditures, and debts of their
respective counties, to be printed in some newspaper printed in the county,
or to be posted up in some conspicuous place in the office of the clerk of
said court. 
ABT. 1232. (312) [6] The said courts shall have and exercise all the
powers which by law are vested in county courts, or boards of county com­
missioners, or chief and associate justices as land commissioners. 
ABT. 1233. (313) [7] Each county court of this state shall have a seal,
whereon shall be engraved the words "county court, -- county, Texas;"
the blank tp be filled with the name of the county; which seal shall be kept
in the clerk's office, and shall be used in the authentication of all official acts
of said court, or of the clerk of said court, or of the chief justice of said
court, or of the county commissioners, when performing any of the duties of
the chief justice which they are authorized to perform, in all cases where a
seal shall be necessary for the authentication of any of said acts. 
§ 1234. (314) [8] Each county court shall have full power and
authority to issue all such notices, citations, writs, and process, as may be 
necessary for the proper execution of the powers and duties imposed upon
such courts, and to enforce its jurisdiction ; and all such notices, citations,
writs, and process, shall be dated and signed by the clerk, and when not
otherwise directed by law, shall be executed at least five days before the
return day thereof, which shall be specified in the same: Provided, however,
that subpoenas for witnesses may be executed and returned forthwith; and
all such citations, writs, and process, other than subpoenaa for witnesses, shall 
have the seal of such conrt affixed thereto; and all such citations, write,
subpamas, and process, may be directed to any lawful officer of this state,
whose duty it shall be to execute and return the same. 
ABT. 1235. (315) ~9] The county courts shall have like power to punish
contempts as the district courts can or may have and exercise. 
ABT. 1236. (316} [10] Each county court shall cause to be procured, and
kept in the clerk's office, suitable books, in which it shall be the duty of the 
clerk to record all the proceedings of each term of the court ; which record
shall be read over, and signed by the chief justice or the member of the
court presiding, at the end of each term; and the clerk shall also record all
the proceedings of such court, that are authorized to take place in the
vacation between the terms; and such records shall be read over on.the first
day of the term of the proper court next after such proceedings took place,
and shall be signed by the chief justice, or member of the court presiding. 
§ 1237. (317) [11] There shall be elected, by the qualified electors of
each county in this state, on the first Monday in August, 1848, and every two 
years thereafter, one chief justice and four county commissioners, who shall
each hold their offices for a term of two years, and until their successors respec- 
tively shall be elected and qualified;* in case of a vacancy in either of said
offices, before the expiration of the term of two years from his election, an 
election shall be ordered to fill such office, for the unexpired term, and the
person so elected shall continue to discharge the duties of his office until his
successor shall be elected and qualified : Provided, however, that not more
than one of said commissioners shall be a resident of the same justice's 
precinct ; and at any regular election, the four persons having the highest
number of votes, and resident in different precincts, shall be declared to be 
elected; and at an election to fill a vacancy, the pcrimn having the highest
number of votes, and not resident in a precinct where there is already one of
said commissioners, shall be declared to be elected: Provided, also, that when 
any county shall not have as many as four precincts, then only two of· said
commiasioners may be elected from any one precinct. 
§ 1238. (318) [12] Neither the chief justice, or any of said county
commissioners, shall enter upon the duties of their offices until they shall have
first taken and subscribed the oath of office, prescribed by the constitution,
before some officer authorized to administer oaths ; which oath, together
with the certificate of the officer who administered the same, shall be filed
and recorded in the clerk's office of the county court; and if either of said
officers shall neglect to accept and qualify as aforesaid, within ten days after
he is declared duly elected, his election shall be deemed void, and another
elect ion shall be ordered to fill the office. 
§ 1239. (319) [13] There shall be elected by the qualified electors of
each county of this state, on the first Monday in August, 1848, and e-very two
years thereafter, a clerk of said county court, who shall hold his office for a
term of two years, and until bis successor is elected sud qualified; in case of
a vacancy in said office of clerk, before the expiration of the term of two
years from the regular election, an election shall be ordered to fill such
vacancy, for the unexpired term ; and the person so elected shall continue to
perform the duties of his office until his successor shall be elected and qualified. 
§ 1240. (320) fl4] Every person elected clerk of the county court,
before entering upon the duties of the office, shall enter into bond, with two
or more good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the chief justice, in a
sum not less than two thousand dollars, payable to the governor of the state,
and his successors in office, conditioned that the person so elected, shall well
and truly discharge and perform all the duties of the office of clerk of the
county court; and shall also take and subscribe the oath of office prescribed
by the constitution, before some officer authorized to administer oaths, which
shall be indorsed on, or attached to said bond, together with the certificate
of the officer who administered the same; such bond and oath shall be recorded in the county clerk's office, and shall be deposited with the clerk of
the district court of the county; such bond shall not be mid on the first
recovery, but may he sued on from time to time, in the name or names of
any person or persons iojured by a breach thereof, until the whole penalty
shall have been recovered. 
§ 1241. (321) [15] The said clerk shall have the custody of all the
minutes, records, books, and papers, belonging or appertaining to the county 
courts, and probate courts, that have heretofore existed in their respective
counties, a.nd it shall be their duty to attend to the arrangement and preser­ 
vation of the same.
§ 1242. (322) [16] The clerks of the several county courts of this 
state shall have power, by writing, under their hand a.nd seal, to appoint a 
deputy, for whose official acts they shall be responsible; and such deputy
shall take and subscribe the oath of office prescribed by the constitution, be­
fore some officer authorized to administer oaths, which shall be indorsed on,
or attached to the appointment, together with the certificate of the officer
who administered the same; and such al?pointment and oath shall be re­
corded with the county records, a.nd deposited with the clerk of the district
court of the county. 
§ 1243. (323) [17] If from any cause the clerk of the county court is
absent from the county seat, or is unable or unwilling to attend to the duties
of his office, and he has no deputy, or if any duties are required to be done
in the office of said clerk, before so election can be had to fill a vacancy, the
chief justice may, by an order entered on the minutes of the court, either in
vacation or term time, appoint a clerk pro tern. for said court; and any per­
son appointed shall take the oath, and give bond in like manner as herein
provided for clerks who are elected ; but such appointment shall in no case
continue in force for more than thirty days. 
§ 1244. (324) [18) Wbenever the office of clerk of the county court
shall become vacant, all books, records, papers, and effects, belonging or
appertaining to such office, shall be delivered to the person who may be ap­
pointed, or elected and qualified to fill such vacancy, when demanded by
him ; and any person having possession of any such books, records, papers,
and effects, who shall neglect to deliver them to the person so appointed, or
elected and qualified, when demanded by him, may be cited to appear before
the chief justice, either in term time or in vacation, to show cause why be
should not so deliver such books, records, pnpers, and effects; and on the
return of such citation, served, the chief justice may cause the person so
neglecting to be arrested and imprisoned until he shall so deliver such books,
records, papers, and effects, unless good cause can be shown why the same
should not be done. 
§ 1245. (325) [19] When in the record of any order, judgment, or
decree of the county court, there shall be any mistake, and there shall be 
any papers on file in said court, whereby such record may be safely amended,
the chief justice may cause the same to be amended, in open court, according 
to the truth and justice of the case ; but in all such cases the person or per­
sons to be affected by such amendment shall have notice of the application
for such amendment. 
[ AN A.CT TO A.MEND AN A.CT ENTITLED "AN A.CT TO A.MEND AN ACT ENTITLED
AN A.CT TO ORGANIZE COUNTY COURTS.'' APPROVED FEBRtr.ABY 16, 
1852. 
§ 1246. [l] The first section of the above recited act be, and the same
is hereby so amended as to read as fo1lows :-'~ Sec. 20. The regular terms of
the county court shall commence and be held at the court house of each
county in this state, on the last Monday in every month, for the {robate of
wills, the granting of letters testamentary of administration and o guardian­
ship, and the transaction of all business· growing out of, or connected with
the powers and jurisdiction of the county courts, over executors, adminis­
trators, and guardians, and the estates of deceased persons, minors, idiots,
lunatics, and persons non compoe mentis. Such terms shall be held by the
chief justice, without the assistance of any of the county commissioners, and
may be continued from day to day for one 'week, but not longer; and the
chief justice shall have the authority to transact such business growin~ out
of, or connected with such powers and jurisdiction, during the vacation be­ 
tween said terms of said court, as may be authorized by law."] 
[ AN ACT TO A?tlEND " AN A.CT TO ORGANIZE COUNTY COURTS." APPROVED
KARCH 16, 1848. 
§ 1247. [l] The twenty-first section of "An act to organize county
courts," approved March 16thi 1848, be amended so as hereafter to read 81 
follows :-Sec. 21. That a regular term of the county eourt shall commence
and he held at the court house of each county in this state, on the first Mon­
day in January, April, July, and October, in every year, for the transaction
of all business growing out of, or connected with, the powers and jurisdic­
tion of the county court, over all matters other than those named in the
second and twentieth sections of this act ; such terms shall be held by the
chief justice, with the assistance of any two or more of the county commis­
sioners, and may continue for one week, but not longer; and special terms
of said court may be held in like manner, and for like purposes as provided
for in this section, at such other times as the chief justice may appoint : Pro­ 
vided, however, that no county tax shall be levied, unless at some one of the
regular terms, and with the assent of the chief justice and three of the county
commissioners, or the assent of the four commissioners. Should a quorum
of said county court not appear at the time appointed for holding the same, 
the sheriff of the county, or in his absence, or in case of vacancy in that
office, the coroner shall adjourn the court from day to day for three days,
and sho?ld a quorum not a.ppear on the morning of the fourth day, then he 
shall adjourn the court until the next term m conrse.] 
469. A prev1oua law read the third Mondnv In February, Moy, Art.111t, and NoTember. The last pro­
Tlslon wu not in IL The act of 18th February, ISM, "rl'r,culatinp: jurtos,' requires lhe county oourta to mee! 
on the fint Monday In July, tn each year, tu attend to their jury duties. 
[AN ACT TO A.lDCND "AN ACT TO ORGANIZE COUNTY COURTS." APPROVED
MARCH 16, 1848. 
.Alrr. 1248. [11 The twenty-second section of the above recited act be so
amended that it sball read as follows :-Sec. 22. That the chief justice and
county commissionere each receive three dollars for every day they may be
necessarily engaged in attendance on any regular term of said court that
they are required to hold, to be paid out of the county treasury, but they
shall not be paid for any special term.] 
ABT. 1249. (329) [23] During any vacancy in the office of chief justice,
any two of the county commissioners shall have power to bold all such
courts, as the chief justice can hold ; and to do and perform all such official 
acts as he can do and perform. 
§ 1250. (330) t 24] If any person, who has been elected or appointed
clerk of the county court, shall. neglect to give bond and take the oath of
office within ten days after he shall have been declared elected or appointed, 
-the office shall be deemed vacant, and a new election ordered, or a new
appointment made. 
§ 1251. (332) [26] The chief justices, county commissioners, clerks
of the county courts, and their deputies, shall have power to administer
oaths of office, and all other oaths and affirmations, and give certificates
thereo£ 
§ 1252. (333) [27] The chief justice of the county court, shall have
power to take the acknowledgment and proof of all instruments of writing
for the purpose of being recorded ; and they shall also have power to examine
and take the acknowledgment of married women, to all deeds of their sepa­
rate propert7, and all deeds to property, for the sale of which their consent
ie r09uired, in like manner, and under the same rules and regulations as are
provided for notaries public; and all acts so done by any chief justice of a
county court in this state, shall have the same force and effect as if done by
a notary public. 
§ 1253. (332, [28] All books, records, papers, and effects, belonging
or appertaining to e county and probate courts of the different counties of 
this state, shall be transferred to the county court established by this act,
and the said county court shall have and exercise all the powers conferred 
by law on county courts, which are not herein enumerated; and the various
officers of said court shall have and exercise all the powers not herein enumerated, which are conferred by Jaw on such officers; and such powers shall be
exercised in accordance with the laws conferring them, and the provisions of 
this act. •
ABT. 1254. (385) [29] This act take effect and be in force on and after 
the first Monday in August, 1848, and on and after that day an act organizing county courts, approved 13th May, 1846, shall be and is hereby
repealed. 
1 
§ 1255. fl] The county courts of the several counties composing the
state of Texas, be and the same are hereby authorized to allow the sheriffs
thereof, for summoning jurors in the district courts, serving election notices,
notices on overseers of roads, attending on district and county courts, and
doing all other business not provided for, such sum or sums of money as such
courts may deem sufficient for said service, not to exceed two hundred 
dollars per arm um, to beJrni~ out of the treasury of said county, any law to
the contrary notwithstan ing. 
§ 1256. [2] All laws and parts of laws, securing or attempting to
secure to certain counties, the objects embraced in section I of this act, be
and the same are hereby repealed. 
AN A.CT PROVIDING FOR THE TRANSFER OF RECORDS OP ADMINISTRATORS
NEW COUNTIES. 
§ 1257. (1080) (1] It shall be the duty of the county court of pro.
bate of any county from which any county, or part thereof, bas been or may
hereafter be taken, to transmit all original papers relating to the settlement
of estates of deceased persons who were, at the time of their decease, resi­
dents of that part of the· territory of the county which has been or may
hereafter be taken to from [form] any new county, to the probate court of
such new county, upon the petition of any executor, or administrator, or guar­
dian, or a majority of the heirs of' any such estate ; and he shall also trans­
mit, with such original papers, a transcript, certified under the seal of the
court, of the records of all proceedings had in relation to such estates in his
court : Provided, that at the time of tiling such petition, the party filing it
shall pay all fees due on account of such estate. 
§ 1258. (1081) [2] Previous to the transmission of any such origmal
papers, in the manner provided for in the preceding section, the judge to 
whom such petition is presented, shall cause a registry of all such original
papers as have not been recorded, to be made in his office, for which the
same fees shall be allowed as is allowed for other recording. 
[ AN ACT TO A..lU:ND THE THIRD SECTION OF "AN ACT PROVIDING FOR THB •
TRANSFER OP THE RECORDS OF ADMINISTRATORS TO NEW COUNTIES."
APPROVED 18TB MAY, 1846. 
§ 1259. (3] In all oases where the papers and proceedings relauug to 
the settlement of an estate shall be transmitted to any court, in the manner
provided for in this act, such estate shall be proceeded in and settled in the
probate court of such county in like manner as if the settlement of such
estate had been originally commenced in such county; and the transcript of
the record, transmitted in the manner provided for in this act, shall have the
same force and effect in evidence as the record itself might or could have. 
461. The original section WM as above, and contained the following:-" Provided, that the provisions of
thl1 act shall not extend to the eounttes of Jackl!on, Vlctorla, Gonzalee, Bexar, Goliad, Rern~o. San Patricio, 
and Colorado." On tho Uth February, 1848, the eame section w&11 re-enacted, omitting all In tlie proviso exeept 
"Colorado." The above section Is the re-enactment of the law or 18'6, omitting tbe entire provfeo. 
[Bee the A.ct to organize the oount, oourta, p&a11ed ~th Oct. 1886, vol 90, p. '8.] 
~ourts, ~ounti-~statts. 
AN AUX TO REGULA.TE PROCEEDINGS IN THE COUNTY COURT, PERTAINING TO
011' DECEASED PERSONS. 
§ ,260. (1110) [I] Wills shall be admitted to probate, and letters
testamentary or of administration shall be granted in the county where the 
deceased resided, if he had a domicile, or fixed place of residence in the state. 
If the deceased had no domicile, or fixed place of residence in the state, but
died in the state, then either in the county where his principal property was, 
"f tr 
at the time of his den th, or in the county where lie died. If he had no domi­
cile, or fixed place of residence in the state, and died without the limits of
the state, then in any county in this state where his nearest kin may reside ;
but if he had no kindred in the state, then in the county where his principal
estate may be situated. ~ 
482. The snceeseton hnvtng been opened and In projtNIU ot 1Ulmlnlstratton In the county of Shelby, where
the deeeased resided at tho tlmo of his death (tn 1887), the probate court or Matagorda. had not jurisdiction to 
grant letters of administration on tho estate, to the plafntttr; and tho lettors so granted, were consoquently void,
and conferred on him no rl,rht to maintain the action. Lovering v. McKinney, 7 Tex. MS. Where there waa
oonfilcUng evidence, 118 to wnetber the Intestate resided In Matagorda or Bastrop county at the time of his death
In 1889, and the 11ucr~Mlon waa opened In Matagorda In December, 1889, and the administrator quallfted on the
26th May, 1840, but administration had boon grantod on the same estate, by the prob&to court of Ba.strop
county, on the 11th November, 1889, and the contest was as to the le~llty or this la11t administration, the court
11ald :-It was competent for the court In Bastrop county to decide the question, upon the petition for the grant
of administration; and It.a deelsioa Is conclusive, until reversed. It cannot bo drawn In question In a collateral 
action. Burdett v, Bllsbee, 16 Tex. 616. The grant of the admlnlatmtlon shculd properly bo In the county or the
laat residence orthe party. (Burdett v. Bllsbeo, 16 Tex. II04.) Wardrup v. Jones, 28 'I'ex. 489. It tho deceased
was a tnmalent pcl"IIOD, admlnlstmtlon should havo been taken In the county whore be died, or In which was hla
()rlnclpol property. Hearn v. Camp, 18 Tox. 551. The husband and wife resided In Nacogdoches; the husband
died In 1839, and the wife administered tho same, year In Nacogdoches, but took no further action ; In 1840, Sam
Houston recovered a large judgment against the administratrix, for a community debt which had been secured
by mortira,e, and some ottbo mort.1(11,1ted property wai, sold In 1844, leaving a belanec still dne; the wife died In
1S46, and-administration WM granted In Nacogdoches county, the same year, to one Noblltt, upon her estate;
but the whole proceedings show, that her estate was considered trifling, and dld not Include the lands In Bexar;
her administrator died In 1851; In 1847, Flores administered upon both husband and wife In Bexar, where they
had community lote, which, by order of the probate court, Flores sold In lSlS. Thero was ner,e881ty f•>r the 
Be:rar administration, and the probate court bad Jurl!!dlctlon to grant It and order the sale, which the court held
to be valid. Grande v. Herrera, 16 Tt'X. 683 to MS. But tho Bexar administration was void as to the wlfo'a 
separate property, the probate court or Nacogdoches county having taken jurl sdlctlon,._~nd granted edmtulstratton
upon her estate to Noblitt, whlch wa~ still snbststfng. Gmnrlc v. Cba\"C'II. Hi Tex. ool. Where admlntstratlon 
waa granted In Nacogdochf's county in lE,8.S, the presumption of law would be, In 1&>2, that the estate hod been
fully adnrintstered, uuless tho contrary were shown to bo tho fact; and the administration In Ancl<>rson county,
at tho latter date, was n nullity, and the sale, by the admtnlstrator, under tho decree of the court, void. Wartlrup
v. Jonee, 28 Tex. 494. After a great lapse of time, it wlll be presumed that no debts ever existed ~alnst tho 
estate, or that they have been paid. Id. In such ease, unless a ncccselty be shown tor admtntstrntfon, It Is a
nullity. Id. After an ndmlnf11tratlon had-been had, the estate closed, and the ndmlnl11tmtor dlscharged, tho 
grant. of a second admlnlstrntlon lu nulllty. },'Jsk v. Norvell, 9 Tex. lS. And sec lt'ranels v, Hull, 13 Tex, l!l2;
Blair v. Cisneros. 10 Tex. 8-i. The grant otndmlnlstmtlon upon a person not dead, Is vold, (Griffith v. Frazier,
8 Cranch, 9.) Fisk v. Norvell, OTex. lS. It does not appear for what reason administration of the estate or Lock­
hart wr\8 attempted, after It had been closed. In II slmflar case, It was held by this court, thl\t the admlnlstrntlou 
"'"All void for want of power In tho conrt: and thl\t It was subject to objection collaterally, by one who wu no
party to the proceeding. (Fisk v. No"ell, II Tox. 18 • Hurt v. Horton. 19 TeL 28a.) Rose v. Norman, 2e
Te:r. 188. In e&.1ea where tne principal property la ~e the teat aa to the oountv, the expresston 11 capable 
of a much broader eonstrnetlcn, when tlie deceased had no domicile tn the ltate, and died out of It, than when
be bad no domicile lu tho state, and died In tho state. Green v. Rugely, 28 Tex. ~9. In the latter case, that wa11
the proper eounrv where hl11 principal propertf wa4 at the tim~ of hiacuath, or when he died. In the former, 
that le tho proper county, whre bis nearest o kin may reside, or where his principal property may ho situated,
Id. Wbcre the party <lied In Louisiana (bis domicile) nnd his wife and children brought his property to Ander­ 
son county, af'ter hla death, admlntetretton was properly granted ln thnt county; and the rhrbts of tho heirs
woold be controlled by the Jaws of LoulslaruL Id. Ml. The act or the 6th b't<broary, 1840, "regulating tho duties 
or probate courts, and the settlement of soCCC881ons," enacted as follows :- 
.ART. (1030.) (36] The place where the succession shall be opened is fixed as follows, viz.:­
In the county where tho deceased resided, if he had a fixed domicile or residence in the
republic; in the county where the deceased owned real estate, if he had neither domicile nor
residence in the republic; or in the county in which the principal effects of the deceased are, if
be have effects in different counties; or in the county in which the deceased has died, if he had
no fixed residence, nor any immovable effects within the republic at the time of his death. 
A mere temporary residence ln a county, dtd not give the court or that county exclusive Jurisdiction to grant
administration. George v. Watson, 19 Tex. 868. It the deceased had real estate In Red River county, and ho had 
not a ftxod.domlctle elsewhere, tho court In tbnt county might take jurisdiction, and grant administration. Id. 
869. Thero was no such thlne as a vacant succession within the tOSSth article of the Ch-II Code of Louisiana., and
other civil law authorlUea, ruier tho p:i!lllnite of the probate law of li'.-'36 and 1840; certatnly none after tho pll88llgo 
ot tho common low act. Duncan v, Hawla, 16 Tex. 502, r,o.t. One co-udmlnlstrator may have a suit ~Inst the
other, who la rulsapplylng the runds. Davia v. Thorn, 6 Tex. 48.'>. And the heir may mAintnln an action for
penonal property, under circumstances, without adminlstration ; and the clrcnmetance, that tho widow after­
wards administered, would not def,l4t the action. Mcintyre v, Chnppell, 4 Tex. 1112. Letters of nclmlnlatrnUon 
cannot be collaterally offered to e!tabll!1h the death or tho supposed deceased, or tho time of hla death, where the 
llat baa been admitted. Englleh v. MWTay, 18 Tex. 861. Collateml attacks, Gltl,llng,s v. Steele, 28 Tex. 7~. 
AaT. 1261. (1111) [ 2] All ~pplications for the probate of wills, and for
letters testamentary, or of administration, shall be in writing, and filed with
the clerk of the county court. Upon the filing of any such application,
it shall be the duty of the clerk to give at least ten days' notice thereof, by
advertisement posted at the court house, and at two other public places 
in the county, not in the same city or town; and proof that such notice has
been given, shall be made to the satisfaction of the court, before any action
shall be had on such ap~lication. 
§ 1262. (1112) L3] A written will may be proved by the affidavit in
writing of one of the subscribing witnesses thereto, taken in open court, and
subscribed by the witness. If all the witnesses are non-residents of the
county, or those resident in the county are unable to attend the court, it may 
be proved by the testimony of any one or more of them, taken by deposition. 
If none of the witnesses are living, such a will may be probated on proof by
two witnesses of the handwritinS' of' the subscribing witnesses, and also of
the testator, if he was able to write; which proof may be either by affidavit
taken in open court, and subscribed by the witnesses, or by deposition : If 
the will was wholly written by the testator, it may be probated on proof by 
two witnesses of his handwriting, which proof may also be made either
by affidavit taken in open court, and subscribed by the witnesses, or by
deposition ; such affidavits or depositions shall be filed in the court, and,
together with th~ will, shall be recorded by the clerk ; and in any suit that,
may afterwards be instituted to contest the validity of any such will, such
record shall be evidence, if the witness or witnesses be dead or resident
without the county. An1. person interested· in any such will may, within
four years after it is admitted to probate, institute suit in the district court 
to contest its validity : Provided, that infants, femes covert, and persons non
compos mentis, shall have the like period after the removal of their
respective disabilities ; and, provided, also, that any such will may he 
attacked for forgery or any other fraud, at the suit of any heir at law of the
testator, or any other person interested in his estate, at any time within four 
years after the discovery of such forgery or other fraud ; and infants, femes 
covert, and persons non cornpos mentis, shall have a like period after the
Temoval of their respective disabilities. 
468. Where the will wa.a lost, and the aubscrlhtng wttnesees were dead, It could not be eatablt1hed
upon the mere evidence of the e1111to,U11n, who bad lo,t it. Tynan v. Paaehal, 27 Tes:. 29T. Where a will ia
lost, exoept In eaae of'spoli&tion, resort may be had to ecoondary evidence; bat this mast be safflcient to estab­
l111h, with reaeonable certainty, all the facte which must concur with the execution of II vu.lid will (0. AW. 
arts. 2116, 710; 1:!uece&11ion oT Clark. 9 L:1-, Ann. 124.) Tyn&n v. Peschal, 2i Tex. 298. Bequtremeute aot
so 1trlngent In c.ae of spoliation. It the wtll be before tho court, the declarations or the Ll•stator, su~uent to 
~~1t~T~e1:v~:1;.,e~~sf1: :! ~r1':~t7tr!~{df:Ui~ ~~~ :!e i:~h~ ~e~11 f:. 
[ AN ACT FURTHER TO PROVIDE THE MANNER OJ!' PROVING A WRITrEN WILL. 
§ 1263. [11 Where the subscribing witnesses to a will are in the army,
and beyond the Iimits of the state, said will may be probated on proof by
two witnesses of the handwriting of the subscribing witnesses to said will,
and also of the testator, if be was able to write; which proof may be either
by affidavit taken in open court, and subscribed by the witnesses, or by 
deposition.] 
§ 1264. (1113) [4] No nuncupative will shall be proved within four­
teen days after the death of the testator ; nor until those who would have
been entitled by inheritance, had there been no will, have been cited to con­
test the same, if they please ; nor shall any such will be probated after six
months have elapsed, from the time of speaking the pretended testamentary
words, unless the same or the substance thereof shall have been committed
to writing within six days after making such will ; nor shall any such will be
probated, unless it be made in the time of the last sickness of the deceased,
at his or her habitation, or where he or she hath resided, for ten days next
preceding, except when the deceased is taken sick away from home, and dies
before he or she returns to such habitation ; nor shall any such will be pro­
bated unless it be proved. by three credible witnesses, that the testator
or testatrix called on some person to take notice, or bear testimony that such
is his or her will, or words of like import; and whenever any such will may
be probated, the evidence of the witnesses shall be committed to writing,
sworn to and subscribed, in open court, by witnesses, 'and shall be re­ 
corded by the clerk. 
484. The 11tatute la restrictive In Its terms; and no nuncupat1vo will can be sat1tained, only In cases pro­
Yide<l; and proven In the manner prescribed. Jones v. Norton, 10 Tex. 121. This section is essentially a copy 
or the &tatute of fraud&, 29 Charles 11. sec. 19--21; and, In substance, the same provision is found in the code1
or moet of the etstes ; and everywhere a strict construction baa been requlrccL (2 Greenl. ET. 298; 4 Rawle,~;
!IO .Johna. 602; 1 Jarman on Wills, 89; Modem Probate of Wtlls, 804.) Mitchell v. Vicker&, 20 TeL 89'. TM 
wltnOlll88 muet aubetantlally agree, u to the dlapoaltlona ma.de by tho deceaaed. Id. 
1<;t1:i1!:i~n 
as to whnt should be sworn, bat the facts must be proved as requtred by the let sectton or the statute about
wllla. Where the w111 was lost, and It& contents proven by tho oustodtan, who also proved the hendwrtung of
one witness· and the declaratton of the testator, after its date, that It was his will, the proof was held to be in­
sufficient. (Balley v. Styles, 1 Ch. Reports, 2'20; Lonls v, Lewis, 0 Se~t. & R. 489,) Id. It la nee"ssary to 
prove the execution of n will by the formalities and eolemnltles requtred by tho statute, by direct testimony, or
that legally deducible from such. Id. And where direct testlmony cannot be had, or the Cacti! of Uu.'I CH.Se take
It without the statutory rule, reeort may be had, in the first Instance, to such as m11y be aceeeslble and pertinent 
to lhe luue; but the tacts to be establlehed cannot be inferred from proof of others, from which they arc not
naturally and reasonably inferable, All the facts necelll\lU'y for the probate of a will, tr before the court, must 
be proved if the will be lost. Id. The judgment or the probate court, admitting the will to record, cannot be
attacked oollaterally. (Ingram v. Ingram, Dallam, IH9; -Iarman on Wills, 212. 218, 2d Am. ed.; 1 Green!. Ev. 
169 to 194.) BoL v. Lawrence, 14 Tex. M.'>, M6. It 111 conclusive of the rlghta of tho partlee, until lt be re­
vorsed or set aside. (Brown v. Ger,·111, 1 Nott,\ McCord., 826; Lucas v. Bank or Darien, 2 Stewart, 280; Dufom
v. La Fmue 11 M. 607.) Ingram v. Ingram, Dallam, 1'>21. The authority of the district court to entertain juris­
diction, under this section, to set aside a will which had been probated, was settled In Pnrker v. Parker 
(10 Tex. 88.) Vickery v, Hobbs, 21 Tex. 672. This latter part of the scctlon would be regarded as unconstt­
tutioual, were It not that the proceeding In the district court Is to be regarded rather In the nature of an appeal
or revision or the prevtous Judgment of the county oourt, admitting the wtll to -probate, Parker v, Parker,
10 Tes:. 86. When the probate court admits the wlfl to record, ltl\ Judgment onJy la to be considered · and an, 
expreeston of opinion In regard to the valldity of bequeets, ta not the subject ohppeal. O'Docherty v. M.eGloio,
2ll Tex. 'il. This, and Jlot the general law, goveroa 1111 to time. Booby v. Sweatt, 281'ex. 'll4. 
1!'1: 
§ 1265. {1114) [51 When application is made for the probate of a 
will, which has been probated according to the laws of any of the United
States or territories, or of any country out of the limits of the United States,
a copy of such will and of the probate thereof, attested by the clerk of the
court in which such will was admitted to probate, and the seal of the court
annexed, if there be a seal, together with a certificate from the judge, chief
Justice, or presiding magistrate, as the case ma1 be, that the said attestation 
is in due form, may be filed and recorded in the court, and shall have the
same force and effect as the original will, if probated in said court: Provided,
that the validity of such will may be contested in the same manner as the
original might have been. 
465. It i& not neceeeary to prove that the will wu probated according to the laws ot the state. It ta BllfD·
ctent lf it appelLI' to ban been admitted to probate and record. Houze v. Houze, 16 Tex. 600. Such anthentl- 
aa&iona are aleo within the c:onatltntton or the United States, and the act or OOJIINll& Id. Bnt the copy can·
not he admitted && a munlment of ttUe. until It baa been probated and recorded In this at.ate. Paschal T, A.cir.· 
Un, 2T Tex. 192. The only order which the court can make la, that the will be tlled and recorded. Id. A.a
agreement that the will h&& been tlled and recorded. admit.a the pl't'lltmlnary mpe. Id. The only question ta, 
whether the will or M:1'8. H., 'executed In Virginia, the place of her domicile, according to the laws of this It.Ate,
though It may be not according to the laws or 'Virginia, should be admitted to probate, it having been proved that
the te8tn1trlx had real estate In Texll.8 T The law of the domicile of the testator governs B8 to personals. wherner altuated. (Story's Confl. or Laws, S 461; 1 Jarman on Willa, 8.) But aa to the real property, the law of the 
place where It la situated, govern& not only as to the capacity of the testator to dispose, but also BS to the forms
aud solemn1dea to give the will It.a due lltlteltatton and effect. (Story's Confl. or La,irs, 141'; J Jarman on 
Wille, 1.) Holman v. HopkJne, Tyler T. i'l Tex. 89. Thia Will, therofor9, though not val1d to pue the per·
aonal property ol the teat&trli, becauae not efreotu&.I &OCOl'dtng to the law, or f.he domicile, will be valid to 
traoef'er the title to her real property ID Texaa. Id. 
§ 1266. {1115) [6] Application for the probate of a will, maybe made
by the testamentary executor, or by any person interested in the estate of 
the testator.* 
ABT. 1267. {1110) ['1] When application is made for the probate of a will,
any person interested m the estate of the testator, may, at any time before 
trial, file his opposition thereto, in writing, and on the trial of the matter, all 
oral testimony shall be taken down in wnting and subscribed by the witness
or witnesses ; copies of all testimony so taken, and also of the testimony of 
witnesses taken by deposition, shall be admitted in evidence on the trial of
the same matter, in any other court, when taken there by appeal or
otherwise. 
§ 1268. (111 'l) [8] When a will shall have been probated, it shall be
the duty of the court to grant letters testamentary to the executor or execu- 
tors appointed by such will, if any there be, or to such of them aa are not
disqualified and are willing to accept the trust, and qualify according to law,
within twenty days after such probate. 
§ 1269. (1118) (9] When any person shall die intestate, or when no
executor is named in a will, or when the executor or executors named in a
will are disqualified, or shall renounce the executorship, or shall neglect to
accept and qualify, within twenty days after the probate of the wil1, or shall
neglect for a period of thirty days, after the death of the testator; to present
the will for probate; then, administration of the estate of such intestate or
administration, with the will annexed, of the estate of such testator, shall be
granted: first, to the surviving husband or surviving wife; second, to the 
next of kin, or the principal devisee or legatee of such intestate or testator,
or to some one or more of them; and if none of these apply, or, if applying,
they neglect to qualify for a period of twenty days, after the order for their
appointment, then to such other proper person or persons as will accept and
qualify. 
466. Thia enbato.nttnlly re-enacts the flrat 80ctlon or tho probate act of 1840. Smith v. Smith, 1 Tex. 628; 
tangly v. llarrte, 28 Tex. Mt. Where there la a ooatroveray about the adminlatratlon, and an appeal bu been
taken, or cm4orari prosecuted, to the diatriet court. tho.t court may revise the judgment, affirming or reverslng ; 
and may try the CB8e anew, rendering a judgment, trrespecttve or the judgment of the probate court, Caln v.
Haas, lti Tex. 623. After the ne:s:t of kin, and the principal devleee and legatee, this seetton enjoins upon tho 
court the duty or appolatlng such persons as wlll accept and qualify. Id. But the court cnn tmpose no other
conditions than thOMl prescribed hy law. Id. Th~ eectien compared and reconciled with seettons 12 and 10. 
Stone v. Brown, 16 Tex. 428. The neglect must be willful, and of a known duty. Id. A neglect to present the wlll
within thirty day11, la excused, where there was nneertalnty as to whether the Instrnmcnt wu a will or not. Id.
A will l!I valid without naming an executor. Id. The person named In the will to take charge of the children, 
sell the pertshuble property. &o., 1~ ,·lrtnally executor, Id. The T~x11ij wife, even if the husband bad a former
wlft• living In a foreign country, was held to be entitled to the administration. Smith v. Smith, 1 Tex. 683. And
the failure to present such an instrument (out of Ignorance of law), and yet acting under It, did not forfeit the
ri&,:ht to letters testamentary; and the grant of o.dminlatmtlon should have been annulled. Stone v. Brown, 16
Tex. 481. Where there was a contest a.bout the executorshlp, and an appoal, and bond given, lt suspends the 
rl.l[hts of the &11coe88ful contestant, to sue his adversary fur the property claimed 86 executor. Stone v. Spillman, 
16 Tex. 489. In a contest, under the l&&t clause, the qualiflcatlona of the applicants la a matter within the dtaeretlon of the county court, and where there la nothlng in the record to Induce the belief that under all the 
:ilrcnmatanoee It was improperly e:urc1aed, the judgment will not be diatnrbed. Hall v. Clalberne, ff Tex 
!128. 
§ 1270. (1119) [IO] Letters testamentary or of administration, shall
not be granted to any person who is under twenty-one years of age, or oi 
de"°"°· 
unsound mind, or who has been convicted of any infamous crime : Provided,
however, that such letters may be granted to a surviving husband or wife 
who may be under twenty-one years of age.
§ 1271. (1120) [11] When the executor or executors named in a will 
are under age, and letters of administration, with the will annexed, have been
granted to any other person or persons, such letters shall, at any time there­
after, be revoked, on the application of such executor or executors, or any 
one of them, and letters testamentary issued to such executor or executors,
or any one of them, upon proof being made that he or they have attained the
age of twenty-one years; and when two or more persons are named executors 
in a will, any one or more of whom are minors when such will is admitted
to probate, and letters testamentary have been issued to such only as are of
full age, such minor or minors, upon attaining the age of twenty-one years,
shall be permitted to qualify and receive letters. 
467. The 11,('t ot executors, before the probate or the wUI, should be closely scrutinized; but they must be 
clearly act.a ot mal(oasance, before they can defeat the nomination by the deeeesed. Stone v. Dorsett, 18 Tex. 
no. 
§ 1272. {1121) [12] Whenever any person named as executor, shall
have been absent from the state when the testator died, or when the will was
proved, whereby he was prevented from presenting the will for probate
within thirty days after the death of the testator, or from accepting and
qualifying as executor within twenty days after the probate of the will ; or
whenever he shall have been prevented by sickness from so presenting the 
win, or so accepting and qualifying, he shall be allowed to accept and qualify
as executor at any time within sixty days after his return to the state, or his
recovery from sickness, upon making proof to the court that he was so
absent or so prevented by sickness : and, if in the mean time letters of
administration with the will annexed, have been granted, such letters shall
be revoked: Provided, he shall have first caused the person to whom letters
have been granted to be cited to appear before said court, and show cause
why said letters should not be revoked. 
488. The neglect must be or a known duty. Stone v. Brown, 16 Tex. 428. 
§ 1273. (1122) [13] When administration has been grnnted to any 
other person or persons than the surviving husband, or surviving wife, of
the testator or intestate, upon application being made by him or her, such
other person or persons shall be removed from the administration, and letters
of administration [granted] to such applicant. 
§ 1274. (1123) [14] When administration has been granted to any 
other person or persons than the surviving husband, or surviving wife, or the
next of kin, or the principal devisee or legatee of the intestate or testator,
upon application being made by the next of kin, or the principal devisee or
legatee of such intestate or testator, or any of them, such other person or
persons shall be removed from the administration, and letters shall be granted
to such next of kin or principal devisee or legatee, or to some one or more of 
them. 
469. It was the Intention of this section, to enable those whose rlitht Is preferred to demand admtnlstn­
tlon, whore, from any cause, they have been prevented from asserting their right In the first tnetsnce, Cole T. 
Dial, 12 Tex. 102. But where the next or kin had tacitly or implledly Ml!('nted to the appointment or a stranger
(as by wtthdrawtng his own appltcauou), he cannot remove tho stranger because of the mere preference. Id. 
§ 1275. (1124) [15] Whenever letters of administration shall have
been granted upon an estate, and it shall afterwards be discovered that the
deceased left a lawful will, such will may be proved in the manner provided
in this act ; and if an executor is named in such will, he sha1l be allowed to
accept and qualify in the manner herein provided; but if no such executor
be named, or if the executor named be disqualified, or shall renounce the 
executorship, 01' shall neglect to accept and qua.lifr within twenty days after 
the probate of the will, or shall neglect for a period of thirty days after the
discovery of such will to present it for probate, then administration with the 
will annexed, of the estate of such testator, shall be granted according to
the provisions of this net; and whenever any such executor shall accept and
qualify, or whenever :my person shall be :1ppointcd and qualified as adminis­
trator with the will annexed, the Iott-rs of administration previously granted
Ahalt be revoked ; but all nets done by the first administrator, previous to
the qualification of the executor or administrator with the will annexed, shall 
be as valid as if no such will had been discovered. 
§ 1276. (1125) [16] When a will has been admitted to probate, in 
any of the United States, or the territories thereof, or of any country out of
the limits of the United States, and the executor or executors named in such
will, have qualified, and a copy of such will, and of the ptobate thereof, has
been filed and recorded in any court of this state, under the provisions of
the fifth section of this act, and letters of administration with such will
annexed, have been granted to any other person or persons than the execu­
tor or executors therein named, upou the application of such executor or
executors, or any one of them, such letters shall be revoked, and letters tes­
tamentary shall be issued to such applicant. 
§ 1277. (1126) [17] When application is made for letters of adminis­
tration, any {>erson may, at py time before the said application is granted,
file his opposition thereto in writing; and may apply for the grant of letters
to himself or to any other person ; and upon the trial, the court shall grant
letters to the person or persons that may seem best entitled to them, having
regard to the provisions of this act, without further notice than that of the
original application. 
470. Under tbl1 pmvf1l~n. tr there wu no contest abont the vacancy ot the 11n~Nlon.,· there eonld be no 
eppoeltion to the granting of the admlnlatration, without sbo"·tng that some one had superior claim, to the
petitioner, to tt. But where the opposltton 111 to any arlrnlnl11tmtton at all, any person Interested may be heard 
to make It. Chandler v, Hudson, 11 Tex. 86. Whore the credttor's claim wall barred by limitation, any person
Interested may prevent admlnlatratlon dd bonu non. (Boyle v. Forbes, g Tex. 80; Blair v. Claneroa, 10 TOL
k.) Id. 
§ 127-8. (1127) (18] Whenever an estate is unrepresented, by reason
of the death, removal, or resignation of the executor or executors, or admin­
istrator or administrators, the court shall grant administration with tbe will
annexed, of the estate not administered, or administration of the estate not
administered, as the case may be, in the same manner and under the regula­
tions herein prescribed for the appointment of original administrators. 
4'7 I. This seetton, and aectlon11 9 and 10, apply to the cuea where the executor 11 excused trom admlnlale-ring by the w11L Langley T. Harris, 98 Tox. l>Gt. 
[ AN ACT TO AKEND THE' NINBTEENTR, TWENTIETH, AND PORTY-SEVENTH
SEOTIONS OF A.lf ACT ENTITLED "AN Am:' TO REGULATE PROCEEDiNGS 
IN TBJC COUNTY COURT, PERTAINING TO ESTATES OF DEC.BA.SED PERSONS."
APPROVED KARCH 20TB, 1848. 
§ 1279. [l] Section nineteen of the act. recited in the caption hereof,
shall hereafter read as follows :-Sec. 19. Before the issuance of letters testa- 
mentary, or of administration with the will annexed, the person named
executor, or appointed administrator with the wi.9..1 annexed, shall, before the 
clerk or chief justice of any county court in this state, or before any justice
of the peace in the county where the application for such letters is made, take
and subscribe an oath, in form as follows :-I do solemnly swear, that the wri- 
tin~ which bas been offered for probate is the last will of-- --, so far
as I know or believe; and that I will well and truly perform all the duties 
of executor of said will, or of administrator with the will annexed, of the
estate of the said -- -- (as the case may be.) 
§ 1280. [2] That section twenty of said act shall hereafter read as
follows:-Sec. 20. Before the issuance of letters of admipistration, the person 
appointed administrator shall, before the clerk or chief justice of any county~
in the state, or before any justice of the peace in the county where appliestion for such letters is made, take and subscribe an oath, in form, as follows: ....,, 
-I do solemnly swear, that -- --, deceased, died without leaving any
lawful will, so far as I know or believe, and that I will well and truly perform all the duties of administrator of the estate of said -- --. ] 
§ 1281. (1130) [21] Before the issuance oflettcrs testamentary or of
administration, the person named as executor, or appointed administrator,
shall enter into bond, with at least two good and sufficient sureties, to be
approved by, and payable to, the chief justice of the county, in such penalty
as he may direct, not less than double the estimated value of the estate of
the testator or intestate: Provided, however, that when any testator shall
direct in hie will that no security shall be required of the person or persons
named therein, as executor or executors, letters testamentary shall be issued 
to such pe1'8on or persons without nny bond being required. 
ABT. 1282. (1131) [22] The oath of an executor or administrator may
be taken and subscribed, or his bond mav be given, either m terlll time or 
vacation, at any time before the expiration of twenty days from • ..... ~ I'• voate 
of the will, or the order granting the letters, and all such oaths and bonds
shall be filed and recorded by the clerk. 
A.RT. 1283. (1T32) r23] The following form may be used for the bonds
of executors and administrators :-The state of Texas, county of--. Know
all men by these presents, that we, A. B., as principal, and C. D. and E. F ., 
88 sureties, are held and firmly bound unto the chief justice of the county of
--, in the sum of-- dollars; for the payment of which well and truly
to be made unto the said chief justice, we bind ourselves, our heirs, execu­
tors, and administrators, jointly and severally, firmly by these presents.
Signed with our hands, and sealed with our seals; the seals being serawls ;
the -- day of--, A. n, 18-. The condition of this obligation is such,
thl\t whereas, the above bound A. B. has been appointed executor of the hist
will and testament of J.C., deceased (or has been appointed by the chief
justice of the county of--, adminstrator, with the willannexed, of the estate
of the said J. C., deceased; or, bas been appointed by the chief justice of the
county of--, administrator of the estate of J. C., deceased, as the case may 
be) : Now if the said A. B. shall well and truly perform· all the duties required
of him under said appointment, then this obligation shall be null and void;
otherwise to remain of full force and effect. 
4'f2. The bond may be aued within tour Tears after the ca11ae of action accraea, and the whole penalty 
may be recovered without aaatgnment by the chie justice. (See act 10th M11rch, lSfS, "concernlnll prooeedin'9
In the district court," sece, 6 and l.) 'fbe a11retie11 6lnd themselves t'or the perlormanoe or all his dut!ea by the 
administrator. Baldwin v. Dearborn, Ill Tex. 448. The administrator may execute the bond by power of 
attorney. Hall v. Monroe,~ Tex. 700. 
AnT. 1284. (1133) [24] Whenever a married woman may be appointed
executrix or administratrix, and shall wish to accept and qualify as such, she
may, jointly with her husband, execute such bond as the law requires, and
acknowledge the same before the chief justice of the court where the will was
proved, or letters were granted; and such bond shall bind her estate in the
same manner as if she were a feme sole; and whenever an executrix or ad­
ministratrix may be a married woman, she and her husband shall aet jointly
in all matters pertaining to her said representative capacity. 
4'fS. This section tmpoaes on the husband the repl't'senhitlve cbarncteroradmtnt,trator; and tfhe retnae. 
to qua.llry with bis wire, admlnlstrntlon cannot be granted to her alone, Nickelson v. Ingram, M TeL 68f.
And where the note WM given to tho wtre. aa a.dmtntstratrlx,_ be!ore the puaage of thia act, sbe cannot sne with­
out joining her husband. Mttcholl v. Wrl,rht, 4 Tex. 287. ·rhe right ol the court to appoint a married woman 
administratrix cannot be Inquired Into collaterally, Id. 
A.B.
C.D. 
E. F. 
ABT. 1285. {1134) [25] Whenever a surviving husband or wife, under
twenty-one years of age, shall wish to accept and qualify 88 executor or
executrix, or administrator or administratrix, he or she may execute such
bonds as the law requires, and acknowledge the same before the chief justice
of the court in which the will was proved, or letters of administration were
granted, and such bonds shall be as valid as if he or she were of lawful age. 
§ 1286. (1135) [26] Whenever an executor or administrator has been
qualified in the manner required in this act, it shall be the duty of the clerk
to make out and deliver to such executor or administrator, letters testamen­
tary or of administration, as the case may be, which letters shall be signed
by the chief justice and attested by the clerk, with his signature and the seal
of the court ; and either said letters or a certificate of the clerk, with the seal
of the court affixed, that such letters have been issued, shall be sufficient
evidence of the appointment and qualification of an executor or administrator,
whenever it shall be necessary to make proof thereof. 
§ 1287. {1136} (27] Wills shall be probated, and letters testamentary
or of administration, with full powers, shall be granted only in open court at
a regular term thereof, after application in writing, and notice, as herein­
before required ; but whenever 1t may appear to the chief justice, that the
interest of an estate requires the immediate appointment of an administrator,
he shall either in open court or in vacation, by writing under his hand a.nd
the seal of the court, attested by the clerk, appoint some proper person
administrator pro tem., with such limited powers as the circumstances of the
case may require. Such appointment may be made without notice-shall
define the powers conferred, and before being delivered to the person ap­
pointed, shall be recorded in the minutes of the court; and the clerk shall 
~
SEAL.j
SEAL. 
SEAL. 
.indorse thereon a certificate that· it bas been so recorded; and until such 
record and certificate are made, the appointment shall not take effect. Such
appointment shall cease to be of force on the first day of the term of the court
next after the date thereof, unless continued in force by Ii order entered on
the minutes in open court; and in no case shall such appointment continue in
force beyond the first day of the second term of the court next after the date
thereo£ 
4T4. Tho statute cleru-ly contemplstee, that any person, wi11bln11; to contest any matter or proceeding
before the county coort, 11bnll file his complaint or exceptions (In writing), and havlnir done eo, he l>eoomea a 
party ; ho 111 entitled to the proeesa or the court, and 111 liable to pay the r.011ts or th~ which be makes.
(Hart. art. 1240.) Brown v. Hobbs, 19 Tex. 169. The court should not have requlred the R11mlnlstrator to 
mt>,•t 11n ohJt>ctton founded on extraneous facts, not presented In the exceptions, an(Lof which be bad no 
not kt>. an,! which had been no part of the C8.8C made bv the appellant. (Mooru v. Hardllon. 10 Tex. 461; Dan- 
z.·,· v, Swin.n.-y, 7 Tex. 617; Pierpont v. Threlkelc1. 18 Tex. 244.) Id. 110. Any statement or tho cause of
ac.Ion (petition, appllcatlon, answer, exception, motion, &c.), unless the alleeettone have been prescrtbed by the 
111:irnt,,, whlch will enable R person of ordinary understandlng to comprehend the subject-molter, wfll be
suulelcnt, 1>11n:r.,·y v. Swtn11t>y, 7 Tex. 624. And Ir the party show no law, the motion or application may be
dl,.mi~"<'d. without bearing evidence. Id, Instead or icldng limited powers f'or tho particular occaston, they
(thr 1 .. 11,•rs prn t,m.) ,nve general nod l'ull 110wen1. without nny reference belng msd« to the suit (pending In
the ,listrkt eonrt), which was the only ground on which, In this ease, the chief Justice bad any authority to act.
Th,• ruurt b.-low could not rt'ltl'ffl the pro um. appointment of administrator as or any validity, and could only 
tr,·4t It as a nullity. Alexander v. Barfield, 6 Tex. 406. 
§ 1288. (1137) r28] Pending any contest relative to the probate of a
will, or the granting ofletters of administration, whether such contest be in
the county court, or in any other court on appeal, it shall be the duty of the
chief justice to appoint an administrator pro tem., in the manner prescribed in 
the preceding section, and with such limited powers as the circumstances of
the case may require. Such appointment may continue in force until the ter­ 
mination of the contest, and the appointment of an executor or administrator
with full powers. 
4T 5. To authorize the 1trant pro tem.; or p~nd~t.e ute, there must be a contest relative to the p?Obate or 
the will, or the grant or admlnlatmtlon. Fisk v. Norve~ 9 Tex. 16. 
§ 1289. (1138) [29J Before the issuance of letters of administration
pro tem., under the provisions of the two preceding sections, the person ap- 
pointed shall take and subscribe an oath and enter into bond; which bond
and oath shall be; in substance, the same as the bond and oath required of
other administrators, varying the forms to suit the circumstances of the par- 
tieular case-and such bond and oath shall be filed and recorded in the like
manner as other bonds of administrators. 
§ 1290. (1189) [30] When the sureties upon an executor's or adminIstrator's bond, or any one of them, shall die, or shall remove beyond the 
limits of the state, or shall become insolvent, or when, in the opinion of the
chief justice, the sureties upon any such bond are insufficient, it shall be his
duty, either in term time or in vacation, to cause a citation to he issued and
served upon such executor or administrator, requiring him to appear and 
give a new bond, on a day named in such citation, which may be in term time 
or in vacation. 
AnT. 1291. (1140) [81] Any person interested in an estate may present
a petition to the chief justice-representing that the bond of the executor or
administrator is insufficient-whereupon it shall be the duty of the chief jus- 
tice, either in term time or in vacation, to cause a citation to be issued and
served on such executor or administrator, requiring him to appear upon a day
named in the citation-which may be either in term time or vacation-and
show cause why he should not be required to give a new bond ; and, on the
return of such citation served, the chief justice shall inquire into the truth 'of 
the fact alleged, and if satisfied of the insufficiency of the bond, he shall
require such executor or administrator to give a new bond. 
§ 1292. (1141) [32] The sureties upon the bond of an executor or
administrator, or any one of them, may at any time present a petition to the
chief justice, praying that such executor or administrator may be required to 
give a new bond, and that he or they mar be discharged from all liability for
the future acts of such executor or administrator, Whereupon it shall be the
duty of said chief justice, whether in term time or in vacation, to cause a
citation to be issued, and served on such executor or administrator, requiring
him to appear, on a day named in the citation-which may be either in term
time or in vacation-and give a new bond ; and whenever such new bond 
shall have been given, and approved by the chief justice, such sureties shall 
be discharged from all liability under their bond for the future ~ots of such 
executor or administrator, 
ABT. 1293. (1142} [33] In all cases where a new bond shall be required
from an executor or administrator, under the provisions of this act, an order
to that effect shall be entered in the minutes of the court, naming the time
within which such new bond shall be given-and until such new bond shall
have been given and approved, the order shall have the effect to suspend
the powers of such executor or administrator. 
§ 1294. (1143} ra4] Executors and administrators shall be removed
by the chief justice, wit'b.out notice, in term time, by an order entered on the
minutes of the court, in the following cases :-1st. When they neglect to 
qualify in the manner re<Juired by this act, within twenty days after the will
is probated, or the order is made for granting of their letters. 2d When they
shall neglect to return to the court, within sixty days after receiving their
letters, an inventory of the estate committed to their charge, so far as the
same has come to their knowledge. 3d. When they have been required to 
give a new bond, and neglect to do so within the time prescribed by the
court. 4th. When they absent themselves from the state, for a period of
three months, without the permission of the court. 
§ 1295. (1144) [35] Executors and administrators may be removed
by the chief justice, of his own motion, or on the complaint of any person
interested in the estate, after being cited to answer such complaint or motion
in the following cases :-1st. When they shall fail to make to the court any
e.xhibit that they are required to make, by the provisions of this act; or when
they shall fail to comply with any order that the chief justice is authorized
to make against them, under the provisions of the same. 2d When there
shall appear sufficient grounds to believe that they have, or are about to mis­
apply, embezzle, or remove from the state, the property committed to their
charge. 3d. When they are proved to have been guilty of groas neglect, or
mismanagement, in the performance of any of their duties. 4th. When they
fail to obey any order of the court consistent with this act, in relation to the
estate committed to their charge :-In the cases enumerated in this section,
on proof being made that the executor or administrator; has removed from
the state, or otherwise endeavored to elude the service of process, on any
such complaint or motion, the same may be heard and determined, though
the citation be not served ; and in all cases where an executor or adminis­
trator is removed, the causes of such removal shall be set forth in the order
of removal. 
§ 1296. (1145} raa] If any person named as executor, shall have re­
nounced the executorship, or shall have been removed therefrom, he shall
not afterwards be appointed administrator of the estate ; and whenever any
person shall have been removed from the administration of an estate, he shall 
not afterwards be ap~ointed administrator thereof.
§ 1297. (1146 [37] If at any time an executor or administrator, 
shall wish to resign t e administration of the estate that has been committed
to his charge, he may present to the court from which his letters issued, a
full and complete exhibit of the condition of the estate, together with his
administration account-both of which shall be verified by affidavit-and
also his application in writing for leave to resign : whereupon it shall be the
duty of the clerk to make out a citation, returnable to some regular term of
the court ; which citation shall state the presentation of such exhibit, ac­
count, and application, the term of the court to which it is returnable, and
shall require all those interested in the estate to appear and contest such
account, if they see proper. Such citation shall be published for at least
twenty days in some newspaper /rinted in the county, if there be one; if
not, then by posting copies thereo for a like period at three public places in 
the county : proof of such publication may be made by the affidavit of the
publisher or printer, attached to a copy tbereo£ At the return term of such
citation, or at some other term to which it may have been continued, upon
the chief justice being satisfied that such citation has been published, or
posted, as the case may be, he shall proceed to examine such exhibit and a~
count, and to hear air proofs that may be offered in support of the same, and
all objections and exce;etions thereto; and shal~ if necessary, re-state such
accounts, and shall audit and settle the same. If it shall then appear that
such executor or administrator bas accounted for all said estate, accor<ling to
law, the chief justice shall order him to deliver the estate, if there be any
remaining in his possession, to some person who has given bond for the 
same, in like manner as herein prescribed for administrators. Upon com­
plying with such order, said executor or administrator shall be permitted to 
resign his trust and be discharged. 
478. By the 9th seetton of the probate I.Aw of18'0, tbe admlnfstmtor mlstht dlssolve the fl<lnclnrv rell\Uon
between himeelf and the suceesslon. Ineratn v. Mayn11rd, 6 Tex. 181. By th.; present law, ho mnst 'ilnt have 
accouutt>d. But the probate court eonld not call an ndmlnlt1trutor to account, who had r1·shmt>d before Its~
~e. Id. 182. A ju,lgment fn ,mch II C8MI le void. for 'll"1mt of jnrlsdiction ov,•r the ndmlnlstrator. Id. I'he 
15th eeetlon, art. l'V"., state constitution, and the act of 1848. or,canlzlng the county eourts, quoted and eompared
with tfile section. Francis v. Northcote, 6 Tex. 186. Where an udurlnlstrator had re~w1u:d, and been 11111· 
charged, the county court had no power over bis aeeonnts, Id. At'tt>r the ndjnstm,•nt of his account, and nn
order appointing a euceeeeor, the resigned admlnletrator could not be required to pasa upon a claim, or to do nny 
other otDcial act. Oldham v. Bmtth'a Administrator, 26 T<'X. 682. The common hnr d~atar-U nplnst the ad­
mlnlatn&or, need not be establtahed before au Ing him upon hl11 bond. Francia "'· Northcote. 41 Tex. 187. 
ABT. 1298. (1147) ras] Whenever letters testamentary or of adminis­
tration shall be grantee!, the chief justice shall, by an order entered on the
minutes of the court, appoint three or more disinterested persons, and citi­
zens of the county, any two of whom may act, to appraise the estate of the
deceased. If from any cause, such appointment be not made ; or if the ap­
praisers, or any of them, so appointed, fail or refuse to act; or if, from any
other cause, a new appointment is required, the chief justice shall by a like 
order, either in term time or vacation, appoint another appraiser or apprais­
ers, as the case may require ; and in all cases, any two appraisers may act.
Such appraisers shall each receive two dollars per day, for every duy they
may be necessarily engaged, and all reasonable expem,es. 
ABT. 1299. (1148) [39] Every executor or administrator shall, immedi­
ately after his appointment, with the assistance of any two or more of the
appraisers appointed by the chief justice, make, or cause to be made, a full
inventory and appraisement of all the estate of the testator or intestate, both
real and personal, specifying in such inventory, what portion of such estate
is the separate property of the deceased, and what portion, if any, is repre­
sented as common property. The appraisement of the property specified in
the inventory, shall be sworn to and subscribed bv the appraisers making the 
same, before some officer of the county authorized by law to administer
oaths : such executor or administrator shall also make and attach to such
inventory, a full and complete list of all claims due or owing to the testator
or intestate, specifying what portion of such claims is the sepurnte property
of the deceased, and what portion, if any, is common property. Such execu­
tor or administrator shall also make and attach to such inventory and list, 
his affidavit in writing, subscribed and sworn to before some officer of the
county authorized by law to administer oaths, that the said inventory and
list is a full and complete inventory and list of the property and claims, of
his testator or intestate, that has come to his knowledge. 
411. Thie section, and eeettons 41 and 4Z. compared. White v, Shepperd. 16 Tex. 166. Thia Inventory
do&e not conclude the wile's claim to 11eparate property. Dunham v, Obatbam, ii Tex. 248. 
§ 1300. (1149) r 401 The inventory and list required to be made by
the preceding section, shall be returned to the court by the executor or ad­
ministrator, within sixty days after the date of his appointment, and may be
returned either in term time or vacation ; but when returned, it shall be
noticed on the minutes of the court, and shall be recorded by the clerk. 
Aif.T. 1301. (1150) [ 41] Whenever other property or claims of the testater or intestate, than such as may be included in the inventory and list 
which has been returned, shall oome to the knowledge of the executor or•
administrato!1 he shall make and return an additional inventory or list of
such newly discovered property or claims without delay ; which said additional inventory and list shall be made, returned, and recorded in like man·
ner as original inventories and lists; and any executor or administrator, on
com.Plaint of any person interested in the estate, shall be oited by the chief
justice, and on good and sufficient proof being made, tha~ any property or
claims of the estate have not been included in the inventory and list returned, 
shall be required to make and return an additional inventory and list thereof,
in like manner as original inventories and lists. 
478. It wonJd seem that adult hfllnought to UMrt thla mnedJ to &neat theltatllt.e olllmliaUona. Bru- 
shaw v. Mayfield, 18 Tex. tS. · 
§ 1302. (1151) [ 42) Inventories, appraisements, and lists of claims,
taken and returned in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this act, 
may be given in evidence in any suit, by or against the executor or admlnietrator, but shall not be conclusive, for or against him, if it be shown that 
there is other property not inventoried; or that there are other claims than
tbose named in such lists; or that -the property, or any part thereof, was
oond fide, sold for more or less than the appraisement ; or was not separate
or common property, as specified, in such inventories and lists. 
479. The right to show by proo~ does not depend upon the ignorance of the :u1mlnletrator aa to the trae
ltate of U>e title. It la only prima facie; not conclusive evtclence. Little v. Birdwell 21 Tex. OOT. The 
Inventory ta not conclustve to show whether the property le separate or common, ns specifted. CarroII v. ('.v. 
roll, 20Tex. 746· Uradllhow v. Maytleld, 18 Tu. 27. But the oml&alon of a negru by the arlmlnlr,t.rotrl:ir, It- erl·
deuce, at least, tbt ahe wu not claiming the slAve u trustee for her husband's estate. Id. The Inventory le
not Intended to be eonclusiveJ and no distinction is made between an Inventory voluntarll; matt.-, and one _.
returned under tho Judgment or the court, 1111 to ita t>tfect In evtdeuce, White T. Shepperd, 16 Te.~. 161. 
ABT. 1303. (1152) [ 43] When any inventory and appraisement has been
returned in the manner hereinbefore provided, any person interested iri the
estate, who may deem such appraisement to be unjust or erroneous, may 
8J>plf to the chief justice for a new appraisement, notice of which applies­
tion, together with a citation, shall be served on the executor or adminis­ 
trator, requiring him to appear at a regular term of the court, and show
cause why a new appraisement should not be made. On the return of such
citation served, the chief justice shall inquire into the truth of the facts
alleged, and, if satisfied that such appraisement was manifestly unjust or
erroneous, shrtll appoint other appraisers, and order a new appraisement, to
be made and returned in like manner as original appraisements. Wben such
new appraisement is made and returned, it shall be recorded, and shall stand 
in place of the original nppraisement, which shall be as if never made: Pro­
vided, that not more than one re-appraisement shall be made. 
§ 1304. (1153) (44] At the first term of the court, after the original
grant of letters testamentary, or of administration, it shall be the duty of the
chief justice to fix the amount of an allowance to be made for the support of
the widow and minor children, if there be either or any, of the deceased,
which allowance shall be of an amount sufficient for their maintenance for
the term of one year, and shall be paid by the executor or administrator to
the widow, if there be one; if not, then to the guardian of the child or chil­
dren, either in money out of the first fonds of the estate that may come to
his hands, or in such personal effects of the deceased as such widow or
guardian may choose to take at the appraisement, or a part thereof in each,
as they may select. If there be no personal effects of the estate that such
widow or guardian are willing to take for such allowance, or not a sufficiency
of them ; and if there be no funds, or not sufficient funds, of the estate in
the hands of such executor or administrator to pay such allowance, or any
part thereof, then it shall be the duty of the chief justice, so soon as the
mventory and list of claims are returned, to order a sale of so much of the
estate, for cash, as will be sufficient to raise the amount of such allowance,
or a part thereof, as the case may require: Provided, however, that when
any such widow and minor children shall have separate property adequate
to their maintenance, then no such allowance shall be made as is provided
for in this section. 
480. Where two children had separate property of the value of two thousand four hnndred 11nrl ntnety­
three dollars and fifty cents, they were not entitled to this allowance. Sloan v. Webb, 20 Tex. 189-90. The
object of thi8 section ls to allow " year's support for the widow and minor children, or for the minor children,
if there be no widow; and If there be a widow, she Is to receive the whole for the benefit or herself and miJ1or 
chlldren. James v. 'fhompson, 14 Tex. 466. 
ABT. 1305. (1154} [ 45] At the first term of the court after an inventory
b.d list of claims have been returned, it shall be the duty of the chief
justice to set apart, for the use and benefit of the widow and children, if
there be either or any, of the deceased, all such property as may be ex­
empted from execution or forced sale by the constitution or laws of the
state, with the exception of any exemption of one year's supply of pro.
visions ; and in case there should not be among the effects of the deceased,
all or any of the specific articles so exempted, it shall be the duty of the
chief justice to make an allowance in lieu thereof to the widow and children,
or such of them as there be, which allowance shall be paid by the executor
or administrator, either in money out of the first funds of the estate that
may come to his hands, or in any property of the deceased that such widow
or children may choose to take at the appraisement, or a part thereof in
both 'SS they may select. If there be no property of the deceased that such
widow or children are willing to take for such allowance, or not a sufficiency,
and there be no funds, or not sufficient funds of the estate in the hands of
such executor or administrator to pay such allowance, or any part thereof, 
it shall be the duty of the chief justice, on the application of such widow or
children, to order a sale of so much of the estate for cash as will be sufficient
to raise the amount of such allowance, or a Fart thereof, as the case may re­
quire. . Such allowance shall be paid in the following manner : If there be a
widow and no children, the whole to be paid to the widow: If there be a
child, or children, and no widow, the whole to be paid to such child, or to
be equally divided among such children: If there be a widow and a child,
or children, one-half to be paid to the widow, and the other half to such
child, or to be divided equally among such children : Provided, that, if the
estate of such decedent be not insolvent, nothing in this section contained,
shall be so construed as to prohibit the distribution and partition of said
estate among the heirs and distributees thereof, including the portion herein
provided, to be set aside for the use of the widow and children : and,
further :provided, that a year's provision shall be exempted from such
distribution. 
4 81. The peoper construction of this section of the statute, hltil heen the 11ubJect of examination In 11<'\"Pml 
eut,a. (James v. Thompson, 14 Tex. 46.'3; Green v. Crow, 11 Tex. 180; Lockhart v. Whlw, 18 Tu. Hrl.) Its
object~ to atford protection to the family, In cotncldence with thr- gen1;1"11l Iuws aft'ordlni;: that protcctlon. Huh­
bard v. Horne, 24 Tex. 272. The lands grant.c-d to soldiers In the battle or Ran Jacinto and other battles, arc not
embraced by this section. Id. It waa all,ig<"I that tho widow was not the lawful wife or Uw purty, lmvin~ had 
a husband llving when she marrle<l the decedent. It Is eutllclent answer to thls, that Allbrooke lt•ft one cl11lrl
by this wifo; and whether the wldow be or be not entitled, under this section and section 46, the ct,11 ! :.;, ,111d 
could claim the whole for l~lt, to the exclusion of tho 1,lnlntllfs and all others, except those cl:ii.mi11ir for
funeral expenses and those of the liuit slclm<•~ Lockhart v. White, 18 Tex, 110, The amount of the allow­
ance 111 beyond the rc•aeh or eredttors, anrl IC the subject of contest ut oil, It could only be between the mother
and child. Id. Tho burthen nf 11rovlng that the flr11t husbnnd was not tll'nd, nt the tlme of ttu- second
marriage, lay upon the pany obJect n!r to tbnt mnrrl11ir;e. l<I.; Yates v. Houston, 8 Tex, 449; Curroll v. Carroll, 
to Tex, i.Jl; Smith v. Smltb, I I'ex, ti'l!l. The lien of n judgment against the Intcstnte, should have given pre­
eedence to the claim of the widow and children, for their allowance, under tho order or the county court standing
ln full force, and not satisfied. Glddtni;s v, Cr.,sby, 24 Tex. 299. The satne rule a.p11llos IC lb,· pro1t0rtv be sold 
to pr,,doQll tho CMb. Id. Liens upon lande of deeedents, must be enforced In tl.io <'01111ty c•unrL {d. This
sectton compared with ~t'ctlon 44. Connell v. Chandler, 11 Tex, ~l. No formal appltcatlon, eortalnly none of
record, Is necessary, If the court acta upon the right, which It Is tts Imperattve duty to do. Id. 25'.l. U nrler the
civil law or Mexico, a second marrl~o (tho first wife still living), w11s not null and vold In law, with rcf,·renco
either to the second wtre or tho children or tbot marrl&lll). The marriage Is a crime, but oil the rlirhts and lnui.­
dents of a legal marriair;o, continue os long u the Innocent fllU'lV remains lgnqrnnt or the hnpedituent, Lee v. 
Smith, 18 Tex, 1~. Tbl11 pntattve marrlngo Wll8 converted ln"to a reul marrrn!,(1-•, afh'r th» removul of the 1111pediment, by [the death of tho flnt wlfl'J, or divorce obtained ftt her Instanee. (E~crcch,•, J lie. M.\'rkuto:s10;
Smith v. l:lmitb, I Tux. 621.) Id. Uuder tho Spanhsh law In force until INO, a widow without proJ11'rty of her 
o.,.·11, waa entitled (tn preference to creditors), to ono-Iourth or tho estate of tho husbaud ; this funrth not to ex­
eeed a epeclftc amount, This provision WM repealed by the common law act, anti there was no substttutlon for 
It, until by tho act to amend tho probate law to HHS. Green v. Crow, 17 Tex, 1S4. That acL read as follows:- 
AN .A.CT TO Al,IEND THB PROBATB LAW, 
§ (1061.) [l] Hereafter when any person shall die intestate, or shall not expressly forbid
it by will, the same amount of property, and the same kind-if so much belong to the estate in
kind-that is exempt from sale under fieri faciaB, or execution, by an act approved twenty­ 
ftt\h January, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-nine, entitled ".',n net to exempt certain
property therein named from execution," be, and the same is hereby declared to bo exempt
from sale by order of any probate court. 
Green T. Crow 17 TeL 1Si. This law was lllnaory, and operated uncquallv. Id. Rut this provision W3II 
enlarged, equallzed, and rendered cortalc. by the law of 1348, "To organize probate courts," as follow!!:- 
§ (1107.) (26] That whenever an inventory of any estate may be made out and returned
to the court, the judge thereof shall set apart for the sole use and benefit of the widow and
children, if there be either or any, of tho deceased, all such property as by the constitution
and laws of the state, bas been or shall be declared not to be subject to forced sale, for debts
contracted after the 16th day of February, 1841>; and in case there should not be among the
effects of the deceased, all or nny of the specific articles which are by the constitution and
laws of the state exempt from forced sale, it shall be the duty of tho probate judge to order a
salo of a sufficiency of the other effects belonging to the estate of such deceased person as will, 
under the direction of such judge, procure for the use of the wife and children, or wifo, in case
such person have no children, or child or children, in case such person have no wire, the
specific articles which may, at the time of the death of such person, be exempt by law from
forced sale under execution ; and that any testator, by his last will and testament, may so
provide that no other action than tho probate and registration of said will and testament, and
an inventory of the estate, shall be had in the probate court. 
§ 1306. {1155) [ 46] It shall be the duty of executors and administra­
tors, within one month after receiving their letters, to publish in some news­
r,aper printed in the county }Vhere the letters were issued, if there be one;
if not, then in some newspaper printed in the state, and nearest the court
house of the county where the letters were issued ; a notice requiring all
persons having claims against the estate of the testator or intestate, to pre­
sent the same within the time prescribed by law; which notice shall state
the time of the original grant of letters testamentary or of administration,
and shall be published once a week for six successive weeks: when no news­
paper is printed in the county, a copy of such notice shall also be posted at the
court house. A copy of such printed notice, together with the affidavit of
the publisher of the paper, that it was published once a week for six succes­
sive weeks, sworn to and subscribed before any chief justice, or notary public,
and attested by his official seal, may be filed and recorded in the court from
which the letters were issued ; and a copy thereof may be given in evidence
in any court, in any action, whether by or against the executor or adminis­
trator ; and a copy of the notice posted at the court house, with a certificate
of the clerk that such notice was so posted, may be filed and recorded, and
a copy thereof given in evidence in the like manner as provided for the
printed notice. 
§ 1307. [31 [Section forty-seven.of said set shall hereafter read as follows :--Sec. 4 7. 'that every c1aim for money against a testator, or intestate, 
shall be presented to the executor or ad ministrator within twelve months
after the original grant of letters testamentary, or of administration, or the 
~!.¥o~l~'"payment thereof shall be postponed until the claims which have been pre­
sented within said twelve months, and a1lowed by the executor or administrator, and approved by the chief justice, or etablisbed by suit, shall have been 
first entirely paid: Provided, however, that if the executor or administrator
be absent from the state any time during said twelve months, the time of 
such absence shall not be computed ag1'1nst the holder of such claim, nor
taken as a part of the time limited by this section.] 
48~. All after "provided" la added. For the 16th eectlon ot the act of 1840, ou the same aubje,ct. aee
McDoun}d v. Smith, 1 TeL 491. Repeated dectstoae hove settled that a morlpgc Is "a clnlm tor mon<'y," 
within tho meonlng or this secnon, which must be presented to the administrator for allowance, and to the chltf
jn11tloo for approval, before it C&D be enforced, (Graham v. Vining, 1 Tex. 671; Danzey v. 8wlnnev, 7 Tex. 625; 
Croeby v. McWlllle, 11 Tex. 114; Wright v. Henderson, 12 'f,:,x, 48.) Robertson v. Paul, 16 Tex. 4i5. 'fhc affltlarlt le
required by the 49th section, must eccompany the presentntlon, and be allowed and approved, h,:,ft•re poymcnt can 
be required, or legally made by the admlnlatrator. 1,1. The !11th section of th,· net or the 6th Februnry, 1"40, re­
quired the claim to be presented within one yeor. or It woo1d be barred.i 11n,I when not 1111 presented, It was 
barred, .Mcl>ottgald v. Smith., 1 Tex. 491; Graham v. Vlnln!!:, 1 Tex. Gil. No presentment is n,,cessary, wbel\l
11ult is peDdJ..ng at the death ot the debtor. (Boone v. Roberts, l Tex. ltie.) Bennett v. Splllars, 9 Tex. 621. 
§ 1308. {1157) [48] If any executor or administrator fail to give the
notice required, by the 46th section of this act, to be given, he shall be
removed by the chief justice at any regular term of the court, on the com­
plaint of any person interested in the estate, after being cited to answer such
complaint; unless such executor or administrator shall show to the court
that he has given such notice. 
§ 1309. (1158) [49] No executor or administrator shall allow any
claim for money agamst hl8 testator or intestate, nor shall any chief justice
approve of any such allowance, unless such claim is accompanied by an
affidavit in writing, that the claim is just, and that all lega1 offsets, pay·
ments, and credits, known to the affiant, have been allowed ; which affidavit,
if made in the county where the letters were granted, may be made before
any officer of the county authorized to administer oaths : if made in any other
county of this. state, it shall be made before some chief justice, or notary 
public, and shall be attested by his official seal : if made ont of this state, it
shall be made before some judge of a court of record having a seal, and shall
be attested by the seal of his court. If any such claim is allowed or ap­
proved without such affidavit, such allowance or approval shall be of no 
f oree or effect. 
48 a. The affidavit before a Justice of the pnoe. wu held 1ndftclent to eaoae the three months to eommenee 
runnlDg, so u to bar the claim. Croeby v. MoWlllte, 11 'fex. ~ And see Porter v. Miller, 7 Te.x. 468. Tb~
aflldult may be made before a oommlnloner of Texas, or before any Jndge of a court out of the state, which bu 
a leal. Moo're v. («"IOD, 12 Tex. 86.. An affidavit made by the agent or attorney of the owner of the clllim, who
la cogolzantof the faeta, wtll be a sufficient compliance with the statute. Haneell v. Gref'lf, 7 Tex. 228: Mrlntoah 
Y. Greenwood..\ 16 Tex. 117. Or by any person cognizant of the racta. Dunn v. Sublett, 14 T<>x. MO; 8ht'lton 
Y. Berry, 19 Tex. lM. It 11-1 not be signed by the aftlant. Alford T. Cochrane, 7 'l'ex. 488. The affidavit
atrorda no proot Without it, the admlnlatrator could not allow the claim; with It, It la optional with him
whether he acoepta or ftjecta It. Hanaell v. Greirg, 7 'fex. ffi; Coles v. Portia, 18 Tex. 167. And If he reJteta 
It generally, It goes to the merlta, and not to the form or person who makl'& the affld1nit. Dunn e, Sublett, 14
Tex. M7; Shelton v. Berry, 19 Tex. 1ti6. An seeount pleaded aa a ~t-off, a,raln11t a B1mllar demand by an a,1- 
mtnlatrator, need not be 11wom toand/1resent.ed to the administrator. It may be need, without such prN,entatloo 
l!O far as It _1ot>1, to extinguish the pla nUff'a demaud, but not to recover the balance. (Smnllt>y v. Trammell, ti 
Tex. 10.) Mitchell v. Rocker, 22 Tex. TO. .. One-third Interest In 11utler'11 store, on settlement, f86(),'' la 1& 
11uffl­
clently apecUlco!uvge to preaent to the admlnlatrator. Chandler v. Meckling, 22 Tex. 88, 41. But tht> proof should 
be 1111 apecUlc aa tho charge. Id. A person la not allowed to collect money duo to an estate. and apply It to hie 
own claim. Cook v. Jordan, 21 Ttix. ffl. All tbat need be required, la to Inform the administrator of the
:.~:,:~ the ola1m. Trigg v. Moore, lO Tu. 109. Tho correapond~ section ol the act or 1846, road ae 
§ (1095.) [13] Every claim for money, or personal property, or for land, before it can be 
acknowledged, must be verified by the affidavit of the owner before the judge of probate or o.
notary public, stating what part is due and unpaid and not satisfied; and when thus verified
and presented, tho executor or administrator Bhall indorse thereon his acceptance or rejection, 
with the date of presentation. 
Whether the claim waa for money or for land, the owner WM requlre,d to nrear that It waa due nnpald, and
not Mtlafied. Gregory v. Hughes, 20 TeL 347. But a penal bond for title to land, la not a demand for money, 
and the allowllDce of ft only eonstttutes a demand for land. Id. The pre!M'ntatlon to the admlnl11trator must be
anrred and proved. (Cummlnita v. Jonea, Dallam, M2.) Hall T. McCormick, 7 Tex. 278. Under the breach of
refusal to pay, a plaintifff mldit prove presentment and refusal to allow. Coles v. Portis, 18 TcL 166. A1l(l lf a 
party sue on bla demand without averring authontlcntlon or presentatlon, be may amend, avcrriDII' these, and the
commencement of the llUlt will date from the original petition. Coles v. r,,ru~. IS Tex. tM. The 17th l{'ction 
of the IM!t of 1840, aald "an action agal nat auch eueeeselon." Garrett v. 6alne-a, 6 Tex. 442. The rule waa borrowed
frnm the Loulllana Civil Code, art 9t:i6, el atJq., which bad previously been In foree In this country. Id. But
although thewbole articles were lkltcopfed,yet unllquldated dan._ea were not Intended. Id. Thi• statute le not 
applicable to a contract to convey land, or for damage11 (or th<' breach of sueh a contract. (Robinson v. McDon·
aid, 11 Tex. 886; Evau "· Hardttman, 16 Tex. 481; Peters v. Phillips, 19 Tex. TO.) Bullion v. Oampbell. 27 Tex. 
866. Thie section e.,mporod with the 48th and llStb eecUona of the district court act· and held, that judg­
ments rendered before the death, stand upon the footing of any other claim, ae to the m~e of proof anit ll11ow­ 
a11ce. Birdwell v. Kaufman, ~ Tex. 101, lW.. [A mortgage is only an inciden, of a claim. OuncWl 'f. 
t Simpson, 32 Tex. 146.) 
ABT. 1310. (llfi9) [50] No holder of a claim for money against the
estate of a deceased person, shall bring a suit thereon against the executor
or administrator, unless such claim, properly authenticated, has been presented
to such executor or administrator, and be has refused to allow such claim
for the whole amount, or a part thereof; or unless such claim has been pre­
sented to the chief justice, and he has disapproved of th allowance made by
the executor or administrator, or a part thereof. In any suit that may be
bronght by the holder of any such claim, if he fails to recover thereon a 
greater amount than has been allowed by the executor or administrator, or
than has been approved by the chief justice, he shall be liable for all costs of
such suit. 
484. The petition ahould aver a presentation and rejection by th(' executor. Darly v. Chevalier, Dalliun,
OGG; Fulton v. Black, fl Tex. -126; Tompklna v. Bennett, 8 Tex. 49, which cltea Cummlnga v. Jones, Dallam, 
681. And It should be provecl Oummtngs v. Jonea, Dallam, IISi. Tho objection should be taken In the court
below. Id. The 17th section of the law of l~ la to the effect u that no bearer or a claim for money," shall
eommence an acUon before presenttng hla claim. The 15th section of the act or 1846, declared that no action
ahonld Ile on a claim, before its presentation for acknowledgment; and by the 13th section of the act, the "clulm 
embraeed pel'IOnal property or land." Hall v. McCormick, T Tex. 276. Clnlms not liquidated, or <'8,P._ALle of cer­
tain aac,ert.ainment without the Intervention of a jury, may be sued without presentation. Id. 2,6. Such aa
dam11ges for a breach of warranty. Garrt>tt v. Gaines, 6 Tex. 441. Or a judgmen t, where the lien bu been kept 
allvo. Cole v. Robertson, 6 Tex. 866. Otherwise, wh~re It baa not. Hall v. McCormick, 7 Tex. 2i6. Sections
'9, llO, and 61, compared. Cole v. Robertson, 6 Tex. 866. The debt, on which a rnort,rage 111 founded, must he
preeented. Id.; Onbam v. Vining, 2 Tex. 488. And aa the l&w of IMO required the claim to be presented within
one year, It not ao J>reeented, It waa barNd, and a mortgage on land waa also barred, not only as a,raloet the ad­
mlnlstrator1 but likewise against the befn. Id. 442.i and IL o. 1. Tex. 468. See theee eaees for a tnll di11C1JS11ion 
of the act or 1840, and also ot the Louaiana law upon uie same subject. Id. And eee McDongald v. Smith, 1 Tex.
4.IIO. Whero suit la pendtng at the death of tbe tnteetate, the claim need not be preetlntoo, under the statute,
before trial. Boone v. Roberta, 1 TeL 16'. It aeema that a claim for money, althou;h not dueJa Included In 
this eect1on, aubject to the equitable powers of the county court aa to lta paymenL (1 Story's r;q. I MT; The
United Stateav. The Bank or-North Carolina, 6 Pet. 29; 9 Williama on Executors, pp. 876, &ii?, 1J49 11&>.) Dunn
v. Sublett, 14 Tex.~ Where the obligation wae of a locater, torctuud the lnve11tment out orland to be located 
and sold, tbe claim oould be allowed by the admlnl1tntor aa a money demand, although there had been no sale.
Id. Where the lnteatate aold land and received the pay, and gave a bond for ttu .. , but had no title, the me&aure 
of damage la the purcbaae money; and It ta a .. claim for money," which the administrator may allow, under
thla 60th aecUon. Sutton v. Page, , Tex. 146. The statute only contemplates money demands. Id. Where 
the claim bad been allowed and approved, It arre11ted the running of the statute el llmltatlona. Howard T.
Battle, 18 Tex. 678. And although eight yean bad elapeed before a motion waa made In the- probate court 
t.o compel the admlot11trator to pay, be b.aTlng uaeta unaocounted for, ho could not object to the order to pay 
out of aaaeta, when In hand. Id. Thia article applte. to aulLII for cau1e1 of action arl81ng an.er admlnlatnUon.
Price ..,, Meher, tG TeL 771. _ •. 
§ 1311. (1160) (51] When any claim for money against an estate shall
be presented to the executor '>r administrator, if the same be properly
authenticated, in the manner required by thls act, he shall indorse thereon, 
or annex thereto, a memorandum in writing, signed by him, i:;itating
the time of its presentment, and that he allows or rejects the claim;
or what portion thereof he allows, or rejects, as the case may be. If
the claim or a part thereof be allowed by the executor or adminis­
trator, it shall then be presented to the chief justice, either in term time
or vacation, who shall indorse thereon, or annex thereto a memorandum
in writing, signed by him, stating that be approves or disapproves of
such allowance, or what portion of such allowance be approves or disap­
proves of: if all, or any portion of the elaim be so allowed and approved,
the holder thereof shall be entitled to receive payment of the amount so
allowed and approved, in due course of administration. If such claim be
rejected by the executor or administrator, either for the whole amount, 
or a part thereof, or if the allowance or any part thereof made by the
executor or administrator, be disapproved of by the chief justice, the
holder of such claim may, within three months after such rejection by
the executor or administrator, but not thereafter, bring a suit against
the executor or administrator for the establishment thereof, in any court
having jurisdiction of the same; and on the trial of such suit, the
memorandum in writing of the executor or administrator, or of the chief
justice, indorsed on, or annexed to such claim, may be given in evi­
dence to prove the facts therein stated, without proof of tho handwriting
of such executor or administrator, or chief justice, unless the same be
denied under oath. No execution shall issue on a judgment obtained
by the plaintifff in any such suit ; but such judgment shall have the
same force and effect, as if the amount thereof had been allowed by 
the executor or administrator, and approved by the chief justice. 
486. Where the aothllntleotlon ls a nolllty, tho three months do not begin to run; but only begin after
a valid presentation duly authenticated. Cro11by v, Mc Willie. 11 Tex. 96. But where the affidavit ls only inror­ 
mal, not lo the words, but tho substance of the statute, and tho re.ledlon said, "the money will not be paid..,
the suit, not being brought within three months, was barred. let. Unless tho approval be Indorsed or annexed
to the evidence or debt, the prima facie presumption, at leaat, is, that It does not exist. Danzey v. Swinney,
1 Tex, 626. It bu no Judicial standing until approved by the oonnty Judge. Id. 826. Where the claim .-. 
mixed with other tranN1Ctlons, and the amount depended upon dlseovery from tbc lnteetate's books, It need not
be presented, Merle v. Andrews, 4 Tex. 214. The probate court cannot (at a subsequent term) review It.a own
decision, nor ean It be revised by the dlstrlet court, when carrled Into that court by an appeal; beeanse If the
oourt from whence tlu, appeal ts taken, cannot t.a.ko cogn lzanee of the subject-matter, the appellate court cannoL
(Aulllnler v. The Governor, 1 Tex. 623.) Eccles v. Dantels, 16 Tex, 139; Moore v. Hillebrant, 14 TeL 815i._Pit­
ner v. Flan&1r&n, 1'l Tex. 9; Nell v. Hodge,:; Tex. 490. The burden of proof l&'bn the attacking party. Hille­ 
brn.nt v. Burton, 17 Tex. 14L And see Moore v. Hlllebrant, 14 TeL 81f>; Bradbury v. Reed 28 Tex. 2M If be
be the l\ttacklng 12arty, the burden or proof Iles upon the executer or administrator. Moseley v. Gray, 28 Tex.
497. (Cites the Mme ca&e8.) And there ls more stringency when a groat length of time has elapsed, Bllle­
brant v. Burton, 1'l Tex. Ht. If one of the several makers of a Joint and f.Ovoral note hM clled, the claim 
should be prosecuted In the district court; and until the claim bas been rejected, an action will not lie against
the executor or administrator, as a party with the surviving rnllken. (Martin v. Harrison, 2 Tex. 4M.) Wiley 
v. Pin110!1J 28 Tex, 488. A forelitn admlnlstrnt.or h1111 no right to prea('nt the claim, nor bu tho attorney of mch. 
Cobb T • .Norwood, 11 Tex. Ml. Tho throe months' statute does not begin to mn alter such unauthorized presen­
tation. Id. A foreign administrator baa no right to collect from an administrator or Texas upon the ll&ID8 
estate. Id. ThP district court has Jurll!dlctlon to arrest combinations for fraudulent allowances. (Dobbin "·
Bryan, I> TcL 276.) Lott v. Ballaud, 21 Tex. 169. Demands BfC&lnist the l'State, which accrue aft.er the ope.ntng
of the sueeesalon, must be presented. Jones v. Lewis, 11 Tl'X. ~. See this cue for lawyer's fees, and when 
due, Ir the claim be rejected, suit must be brought within three months, or a demurrer will lie. Page"·
}'lndley, I> TeL 898. If the admlni11trator aver that a claim "1\11 allowed, or judgment recovered in Ignorance of
a reeetpt which applied to the original debt, he most prove that the receipt bad been lost or mllllald. or other 
equivalent ract. (Bccles v. Daniels, 16 Tex. 186.) Tucker v. Brackett. II> Tex. Sopp. 199. U the claim be 
rejected by the admlntetrator, suit must be brought within three months; It accepted by tho administrator.
and rejected by the probate judge, tiult most be hrouirht witbln tbroe months. Therefore, although all our 1a .. 
have been stlt>nt u to whl'n " claim allowed by the administrator shall be presented for approval, yet upon all
the analogie& It should be within three months. Danzey v. Swlnnl'Y, 1 Tex. 6:32. It' the claim bas been pre­ 
aented and allowed, no snit lie!! In the district court, to set aside the allowance. Mllttcan v. Mllllcan, tr, Tex.
468. And If allowed, sath11'nctlon conic! be obtained by procuring an order or sale ln the probate court. Id. But
If In such aprltcatlon, there be a jnclirment azninst the claimant, such ju<li;:'ment may be pleaded &11 a bar In &be
dl!!trlct court. Id. An Illegal allowance may be set 11aicfo In the probate court, on motion or the heir. Bailey
v. Collins, 14 Tl•Jt. 152. The ease of Danzey v. tlwlnney. 7 T(•X. 617, was decided opon this la• of 18'8. Francia 
v. Williams, 14 Tex. 163. Tho law of 1840, was aa follow11:- 
§ (1012.) [18] If such claim be acknowledged by the executor or administrator, be
shall indorse or annex to the claim a declaration signed by him, stating that he has no objec­
tion to the payment of such claim ; after which, the bearer of such claim shall submit it to the
judge, that it may be ranked among the acknowledged debts of the succession. 
Francl&T. Williams, 14 Tex. 168. The acknowledgment by the admlnlstn\tor &rreated tho atatute of ltml
tattons. Id. The approval by the chief juistiee was not nece111&ry. lcl. 
§ 1312. (1161) (52] When a claim for money against the estate of a
deceased person, authenticated in proper form, shall be presented to the execu­
tor or administrator within the time prescribed by law ; if such executor or
administrator fail or refuse to indorse thereon or annex thereto a memorandum
in writing, as the previous section requires, such failure or refusal shall be 
deemed equivalent to a rejection of the claim by the executor or administrator;
and shall authorize the holder to bring a suit for the establishment thereof in
like manner as if such claim had been so rejected; and such executor or
administrator shall be removedby the chief justice at any regular term of the 
court, on the complaint of any person interested in such claim, afte, being
cited to answer such complaint, and proof being made of such failure or 
refusal. 
488. A t-lalm for unlfqnlt\ated damages, which can only be aseertalned by verdict, need not be presented.
Enns v. Hardeman. 16 Tex. 488.. Where there are Joint administrators, a rejection by one ill sufficient. Dean 
T. Duffield, 8 Tex. 286. 
§ 1313. (1162) [53] When any person shall sell property, and enter
into bond, or other written agreement, to make title thereto, and shall depart
this life without having made such title, the bolder of such bond or written
agreement, or bis legal representative, may file a. complaint in writing in the
county court of the county where letters testamentary or of administration,
of such deceased person, were granted, praying that the executor or adminis­
trator may be required to make titles, agreeably to the title bond, or other 
written agreement of the deceased: whereupon, it shall be the duty of the
clerk of said court to issue a citation, with a copy of the complaint, to be
served on the executor or administrator; and on the return thereof served,
at some regular term of the court, the chief justice shall, if he find that such
sale was legally ma.de, order the executor or administrator to make titles,
according to the tenor of the bond or other written agreement, to the property
so sold by his testator or intestate: whereupon, it shall be the duty of such
executor or administrator to make titles in compliance with such order:
Provided, however, that any person interested in such estate may, at any time
within two years after the making of any such order, have the same annulled
and set aside by a suit in the district court, upon good cause shown why the
same should not have been made : Provided, also, that married women, minors,
and persons of unsound mind, so interested, shall have a like period of two
1ears, after the removal of their respective disabilities, within which they may
m like manner have such order annulled and set aside. 
48 T. Tbl11111 the only section under which litigation of a claim can bo allowed In the probate court. Booth 
v. Todd. S Tex. 18S. The remedy by urtwrarl to revise proceedings In the county court. la limited to two
years, .. eovlng, &c." (Hart. art. 809.) A like n-aervatlon la contstned In thl11 section. Norris Y. Duncan, 21 
Tex. 1596. See Todd v. Caldwell, 10 Tex. 286; Chrisman v. Miller, !6 Tex. 169. It la anfflolent If the petition
show good canae why the order should not have been made. (Joni.'& v. Taylor, T Tex. 240.) Id. That 16, I! there 
be error In the judgment., or trend or colluelon In the proceedings. Jonell v. Taylor 1 Tex. 246. And those
within the exception, have two years after the removal of the dlMbllltv. to bave the o;Jer annulled. Id. And
see the ume C&lMl for the dlaconragementa to tfile jurllldlctton. Id. Where the eonstderatlon la not expreesed
In the bond, It must be avtlrred and proved In the county court. Tumlinson v. York, 20 Tex. 697. (Cltea, for 
the general principle, Boze v. Davia, 14 Tex. 881; Short v. Price, 17 Tex. SM.) Thia jurladloUon la limited, and
can be exercised only whe~tbcre la a bond, or the agreement to make title la In wrltfng. Peters v. Phillips, 19 
Tex. 78; Norrl11 v. Duncan, 21 Tex. ll9~ Yet any 11nch written evidence or a contract to sell property, aa would
authorize ha 11peclfle e.xecntton In the district court under the atatute or fnsuda, will be 11ufflclent to authorize 
the county oourt to decree ltll execution. Peters v. Phillipa, 19 Tex. 7:";; Ottenhonse v. Burleson, 11 Tex. SS. 
Thia woe a 11nlt In the dllltrlct court for 11peciflo performance, and Judge Lipscomb thonirbt the helra ought to
be made partfea defendant., bot a majority or the court thought tbe administrator anfflclent. Id. Wbl're the
elalm bad been allowed and approved, a snit does not Ile upon It, even thou~h lost, ualese the admtnlatrator
retuae to pay It. Botton v. Page, 4 Te::r. 147. The act or 18'4, upon the aubJect of apeciflo performance by 
executon1 and adminlatraton, wu u Collowa :- 
.ur Aar TO DB.l'INE AND FIX THE PIUOTIOB 01' PBOBATB OOURTS IN OEBTA.IN OASES. 
§ (1069.) [I] When further time, after the expiration of one year, is granted to any
administrator, or executor, to settle the estate of his testator, or intestate, such executor, or
administrator, shall not be required to execute a new bond for the faithful performance of bis
.iuties, but the original bond of such executor, or administrator, shall be deemed and held as
sufficient, and binding, until the final settlement of the estate, except in cases where new
security is specially required by the existing probate laws. 
It the administrator continue to set, and the probate oonrt to recognize him, the authority ao to do will be
presumed. (Hurt v. Horton. 12 Tex. 2815; Poor v. Boyce., Id. 440; Howard v. Bennett, 18 Tux. 814-31&; D:incy 
v. Strlckllnge, 10 TeL M7; Burdett v. 81!11boo, Id. 604.) Shannon v. Taylor, 16 Tei1. 417. 
§ (1070.) nJ Whenever there may be outstanding bonds, obligntions, or contracts in
writing, for the conveyance of lands, or tenements, against the estate of any deceased person,
which it may be to the interest of said estate should be li.fl;ed, or complied with, it shall be the
duty of the probate court, where the succession was opened, or where the same was or may
be administered, upon an application by petition of the executor, or executrix, admirtlstrator,
or administratrix, or guardian, where all the heirs are minors and have such guardian, af\er
full proof of the existence of such bond, obligation, or contract in writing, and upon satisfac­
tory evidence that a compliance with the requirements of said bond, obligation, or contract,
would be beneficial to the interests of said estate, to decree that the person, thna Applying,
shall fully comply with the same; and any deed, or tender of deed, made under such decree,
shall be as valid and binding aa if it b.ad been made or tendered by the testator or intestate,
himsel!. 
The probate court had the right to ~ttle the queatton of title upon a bond, nnder tbta aecUon and to decree
a 11pecUlc performance; and wh~re minor heirs were represented by a guardian. they were bound by the deeree, 
even to thd extent ot partition. (l(erle v, Andrews, 4 Tu. 200; Cannon v. Hemphill. 7 Tu. 184.) Blwlnon v, 
Taylor, !&Tex. 4jO. 
[3] Buch bond or contract, thus complied with or tendered to he complied with, shall 
exonerate the estate from all liability or responsibility on such iustrumeut ; and tho probate 
Google 
court shall take possesslou of such instrument of writing, and file it among the papers ol the
court ; and where the same is complied with, it shall be cancelled by the probate judge ; and
all the testimony heard under the second section of this act, shall be t.aken down in writing,
signed by each of the witnesses. and preserved among the records of the court : Provided, that
minors, and all persons laboring under dis&Lilities recognized by the statute of limitations, shall
have three years after such disabilities are removed, to set aside all deeds or judgments made
by virtue of this act, for fraud, oovln, and collusion, or any other causes that should vitiate the 
same. 
.ART. (1071.) [4] When bonds, or obligations,are outstanding against any deceased person,
for the conveyance of lands, suits may be brought in the district courts, against the executor,
administrator, or guardian (as the case may be). and upon full proof being made of the jn.qtne88 
of the same, the courts shall decree a title, in favor of [against?] the heirs of said estate, or
warda (as mo case may be), and such title shall be as good as if made by tho original obligor. 
Under thla statute, notice to the heirs wu not neoeuary evtln when the suit had boon eommeneed before
Its paMage. (Thompson v, Duncan, I Tex. 486; Howard v. The Bepublle, I Te.r. 811; Graham T. Vlnlnt, Id. 
'8a" Bolt T. Clemmons, 8 Tu. 428; Ot~nhouae v, Burleson, 11 Tex. ST.) Shannon v. Taylor, 11 Tex. 416. 
The decree wu aa effectual to bind the ht>lre, IU! it' th«-y bad been made partlea to the suit by the service of' rroc­ 
upon them. Id. 416. The admlnl11trator eould sue the state fora land oertUlcate. Howard T. The &•1111bllt; i 
Tex. 819; Thompaon T, Duncan, 1 1'u. 48:>. And the admillla1ntor oould malntaw an action to recx>\"er ~
estate, contrary to the common law. Id, 488. 
§ 1314. (1163) [54] It shall be the duty of every executor, or adminis­
trator, so soon as be shall ascertain that it is necessary, to apply to the chief
justice, at some regular term of the court, for an order to sell so much of the
property of the estate he represents, as he shall think sufficient to pay the
expenses of administration, and the debts of the estate; such application
shall be in writing, and shall be accompanied by a statement in writing, of the
estimated expenses of administration, and of all the claims against the estate
that have been presented to him, specifying what claims have been allowed
by him, what rejected, and those U,POn which suit has been instituted against
bun, with the condition of such surt or suits ; which statement shall be veri­
fied by affidavit; upon the J>resentation of such application and statement, it
shall be the duty of the chief justice, if satisfied that the:re is a necessity for
such sale, to order the same to be made. 
4 8 8. The act of lStb February. 184-0, ent!Ued " An act regulating the duties of the probate court.a, and the
settlement of' sueeeeetcne," provided as follow11 :- 
§ (1023.) [29] Every executor or administrator is bound, within three months aft.er his 
appointment, to petition the court of probate, grantNig letters testamentary or administrat.ioa,
for the sale of all the perishable property belonging to tho succession, and all or such portion
of the other personal property, except slaves, as may be shown to the court to be necessary for
the payment of debts against said estate; and in case, or if on further information, he finds
that the proceeds of the sale of the personal property will not be sufficient for the payment <:I
the said debts, he shall then, within six months after his appointment, or as soon as be ascer­
tains the said deficiency, petition the probate court for the sale of the slaves and real est.at~ o( 
the decedent, or so much thereof as may be necessary for the payment of the said debts ; and
the said court, on full and satisfactory proof of the existence of the debts, and the necessity of
the sale, shall order the same on CMh or credit, as may be most advantageous to said estate. or 
as the nature of the claims against said estate may require. 
A.RT, (1024.) (30] Should the executor or administrator fail to petition the court for the sale
of property, as directed by the above section of this act, then it may be lawful for any one of
tho creditors of the said estate, whose claims have been acknowledged or established, to peti­
tion the court for the sale of the property for the payment of the debts against the said suoees­
sion; and the court shall thereupon proceed and make such order and decree as if the petition
bad been filed by the executor or administrator. 
No dlreation1 are given In this 11tatute u to what shall be recited In the deed. • • • The recital of the J)l"D 
oeedinga docs not conetltute an esecntlal part of the conveyance i.. nor ts lt evidence or their exlet.enet', exoe-P1
between the parties and their prtvles, (Oowan & Hlll'e Nows to Phllllpe on Evidence, vol 4, pp. 986, 88e, and 
autborltle1 there collected; Howard v. North, ~ Tex. 297.) Jont'I 'V. 'l'uylor, T 1'e:x. lk2. But tht1 clll'&&Dr'a deed,
made befol'tl a judge of the ftrat instance in 1834, 11 deemed In the nature or a Judicial Ml&, and aft'orda 1'"""J 
facu evidence, at least, or the truth of ihe f'ucts It recues, Baker v. Coe, 20 Tex. 486.. The eame preaumptiona
Indulged ln favor of these aalea, as or thoee under subsequent law11. Id. 
(1039.) [56] In all cases where property is sold at a sale of a auoeeesion of any
deceased person, or of the property or minors, idiots, Iunetics, and persons non oompoa m--, 
the property of the purchaser, or his securities, may be seized and sold on execution, for casa, 
to the highest bidder, without the necessity of appraisement. 
Alt'l'. (1067.) [1) In no case shall any administrator, executor, or guardian, be required to
eell any other property than that of a perishable nature, belonging to the estate of any deceased
person or ward, nor be required to render and settle their accounts, except upon application,
by petition, of some creditor, or creditors, heir or heirs, legatee or legatees, or of some next.
friend of the ward, any law now in existence to the contrary not\vithstanding. 
Tbta act clearly restricts the former law, and takes away the anthorlty to make the order or reqntalUon (for 
both mean the llat!Je thing) on the petition or the ndmlnf11tmtor or «xecutor, and ex}IN.'ssly lnhlblla !ta being
made> on tbf' petition of a creditor, legi.tec>, heir, or next friend or a w11rd. Mlller v . .Miller, 10 Tex. &12.. Thl111et
did nc,t lnblblt the administrator t.rom :ipplying for an order for the sale or real estate, wh.-n necN1111ry for the 
payment of debta, Allen v. Clark, 21 Tex. 406. The opinion to the contrary, In Mtller v. Millt>r (10 Tex, 819). 
did not n.>eelve the eanctlon of a majority or the court. (Aleunder v. Manrtclt, 18 TeL ne.) Id. The order cit 
&ale may be made on the day of the ll(lpllcatlon, and there II no ne<'.el!Slty fur notice to the heirs. Geol'l[e v.
Watll>n, 19 Tex. 889. The court having jurtlldtctlon to order the 1alo.. Its Judgment cannot be Impeached for 
error or lrreguhu1tles In a collateral action. Id. The purcbaaer at the 11nle Is not bound to look beyond the 
dttne of tho eonrt. (Thompson v. Tolmie. 2 Pet, 167; MePbenon T. CunlUf. 11 Sergt.. & R. 422: Tucker v. 
Harrls, 13 Ga. 21; Lynch v. Baxter, 4 Te:a:. 431; Burdett v. SU8bee, Hi ToL 604; Aluander v. Maverick, 18 
Tex. 1i9.) Ill. But lftbe admlnl11tratlon wae obtained fraudulently, and contrary to law, and the purchaser bad
notice of the l'raud. the sale 11 void u against the bein, or othere defrauded. NcMahnn v. Rlee, 16 Tex. 837. The
taHure to make a schedule of debt, In the application for the order or sale, made no dlffprenco In a collaw.ral 
proceedlne. Howard v. Bennett, 13 T11x. 816. H. B. died In 1AA7, and In .March or that year, A. A. waa
appolnud hl11 administrator, and acted aa sueh '1ntll July, 18'0, when he aettled hta uccountl and wu dlacharged,
th11re being a balance lo bis favor or •289.84. In September, 1640, W. waa appointed administrator dti boni,
ncm: and be acted aa such until April, 1842, when be settled hl11 aeeonnts, llhowlnga balanee of $8.88 In hi11 favor,
and wu dL~h11rged. In F11brunry, 1848, W. J. J. was appointed the third admlnlstn1tor; bot. hie petttlcn for 
appointment was loet, At the May term, 1848, be petitioned for the &ale or the entire estate (lands), eaytng
"eome smllll debte haTe been made "ifll,lnet the eatate for f~ of otfloe. &c., and that a eale of a portion of aald 
eist.ate 11 ntce8flllrv. &c. ; that It would be to the lntere1t of the eat.ate, under the law which provide, for the di•·
position of t'stat~t wht're no heirs shall ('laim within the period of nine year11." The.- eale was ma.d\ and the 
~"iib:! ~!"p~~~ Jn~:i!;!. handa, The quution ta, \II to the validity of the lale, and tt. wu eld null.
The Jurisdiction of a court, mtana t.he power conferred upon It, by the constitatfon and lawa, to deter· 
mine caa11Cs between partlea, and to carry its judgments Into t>1fect. The powers of county courts In rela­
tion to <'&t.atea, are all conferred by statute. Id, There 111 no Jnrllldlctlon where the law forbids the thing.
Ji1ann~ v. Pleree, 97 TeL 79. The presnmpttou, In the abeence of proof to the contrary, Is that the
clrcomitanoee have e>ecurred, ,vhlch give the Jurisdiction. Id. But these pres1unptlon1 are Indulged In 
the absenee of proof, not against It. Id. It 111 often Aid, that an order for tho sale of land, and a sale
under It, are e1reetual to paaa the title; but thl1 is always understood-that the Jurllldlctk,n of the court 
baa been rlghtfnlly called Into exeretse, and that the order 11 vulld. Wltht'rl v. Patterson, 27 Tex, 496.
Variou1 lllu1t.ratlon1 gtvell- Id.; Flannagan v. Pierce, 27 Tex. 79. Orders which the court bas the ri(cb\ 
to make, however erroneoua, cannot be Impeached collaterally; but orders which tho court haa no power 
to make, under any clrcumstaoeea, are nullltlea, and this may always be shewn. Withers v. P11Uer·
aon., ii 'fex. 49i. There belng no appll(:jltloo In writing by the administrator, might be a mere Irregn­ 
larity. Id. The court CAD only order the sale of land, Cur the payment of debts and cxpen1t>11 of adminl1·
trstlon; to 1appon the aurvtvtng wife and children; and tn certain ca11e11 for partiUon. Id. I conclude
that a boA4 _'/Id, purchaller at an administrator's ale, made In pnrananoe of IID order, which the court had the
power to make, takes a good title, and la not atrected by irregularitle1 In the proeocdinga or the cour.-lhat la,
a Utlc which cannot be impeached collllterally. Id. But If the court bad no power to grant tbs admlntetmtfon, 
\be whole procecdtngs are null, and it may be shown collaterally. Id. .And when, the administration Is rltiht­ 
tm. the w11nt of power to order the ale renden the order null, and It may be Impeached collaterally by tho
rec,,ml ltlclt Id. But tr the record does not show the want or power, the preaumptlona are In favor of the 
action of the court. M. The right to grant administration In any case, depends upon the facts at thl' time. Id.
Upon the dlllcharge of the eeoond administrator, the property vested In the heirs, and the third grant wu null. 
lcf. Upon the death of the anceator the e1tate vests In the heirs, 1ubjeet only to the lawful 11tatuwry pnrpose1
of admlniltratlon. Id. Where the order waa under the law now In force, not to pay debts, but .. to enable the 
adminlatrator to Bettle np eald estato, and 11atlsty all the hell'l,n even after the ratification of the eale, any
penon Interested may, within twp years, pro1eC11te a writ of o...uora,;., and set the 11ale aalde. Flannagan v. 
Pleroe, ti Te:x.. 79.
490. The act of the 11th May, 1846, entitled," An act to organise connty conrta,., provided aa followa:- 
§ (1099.) [17] When a sale of land or negroes becomes neoesss.ry for the payment of
de~ts, application shall be made therefore by petition in writing, filed with the clerk. The
petition shall first set forth the amount of personal property that has come to the hands of the
executor, administrator, or guardian, stating its nature and kind ; second, the manner in which
any portion of said property has been applied ; third, the debts that have been paid, ¥d those 
that are still due and unpaid, the amount of each, and the names of the parties to whom pay­
able ; fourth, the description of the real estate, where situated, and whether vacant or occupied,
and if occupied, the names of the occupants; fifth, the names, sexes, and ages of the negroes,
by families, and their number; sixth, the names of the heil'f' and legatees, and if minors, the 
names of their representatives ; on which petition, citation shall issue and be personally sened 
on t.he heirs and legatees, and if minors, on their representatives, and on the occupants of the
land, living in the county. If no such heirs or legatees are in the state, or if in the state, are 
not known, publication shall be made in a newspaper printed in the county, if there be one­
it there be none, ihen by publication in the nearest newspaper published in the state-at least 
. four weeks before the return thereof, and such newspapers in other counties where any 
person interested in the estafe may reside, as the judge, on due inquiry, may direct, and by
personal not.ice served on the attorney to represent the state; to which petition answer may
be filed by the parties interested, showing their objections. The judge may order the executor
or administrator to make the aforesaid exhibit, on the petition of the creditors. At the return 
term of said notice, the judge shall determine whether, or not, a sale be necessary; and if 
ordered, returns of the sale shall be made under oath ; and the judgo may ex.amine testimony
relating thereto, and if any fraud bas been committed, or any irregularity has taken place, w
the prej :idice of the estate, be shall vacate such sale, and may order a new one ; if the sale be
approved, he shall indorse on the return thereof his approva~ and order a confirmation of the
same to be recorded, and a conveyance to be made. The conveyance shall recit.e the order of
sale, the sale, and the confirmation, and order of conveyance ; which recital shall be a copy
from tht1 records of the court. Lands and negroes sold ahall no&. be subject to liens exiat.ing at
the time of the doath of the deoeased. 
§ {1100.) [18] No sales shall be ordered for the payment of debts before the Coun.h
regular term of the court ofter letters Lave been granted ; but Bales of perishable property,
sales for the support of the family of the deceased, or for the education of minors, and saloa 
made to avoid expenses incidental to the preservation of personal property, and for taxes, are
hereby lei\ to the discretion of the judge. The land, and slaves, and other property, shall, in 
all cases, upon a proper showing by the heirs, be, for their benefit, kept together, without sale
or hiring, when a sale thereof is not absolutely necessary. 
In Finch T. Edmonson (9 Tex. fi04), It wa11 held, that to ~ve jurlM!tctlon to the probate court to order the
aale of real estate. the terms of the statute must be e11scntlally cbscrved In the petttion and the exblbltll required 
to be made by tho administrator In the nppllcatlon for the order of sale ; and becauso theee did not appear
from the record, we decided thnt the order of 11:1le, and tho 1111.\e made under It, wc·r<> nulltttes, and gave no ri,rht 
to the purchaser, ~iller v. :'.\tiller, 10 Tex. 33.'3. Wht•re th<' husband and wife died about the same ttme, In 1',Si,
there WI.II no nt'<'<'Sllity of two 1dmlnl11tratlooi1 upon the Mme pl"flpert,r. to pav debts for which it must have beeo 
equally liable, In the bands c,f the administrator of dth,•r or both of the decedents. (Jone,11 v. Jone11, 15 Tf:L
1413; Berry Y, Young, Id. 869.) Soye , r, J\la,·erkk. tis Tex. 100. That the lel{nl estate hsd been conveyed to the 
heirs, to satlal'y a covenant of the futher In his llf,·tlm<', clld not prevent sbo ndmlni11tn1tQr tn,m JIM!lfn!l the title.
Id. In Jonee v, -Iones, 1:-, Tex. 148. the rl:rht11 ar .. morn clearly dil!CIIAA(!d. The matter •·hlcb ,rln11 the ru-phao"e
court jurisdiction, la the death of tbe owner Inteetate. (McPhl'raon v. Cunlltr, 11 Stirgt. & l!. 617.) lrl.; 
Al...xander v. Maverick. 18 Tex. 195. These principles are in accordance with Poor v, Boyce (12 Tex. 440).
Id. 196. The case of 1''inch v. Edmonson. 9 TeL 004. was determined upon the p:lrtlculnr provtstons of the act 
or 1tl46, and the sale held null because or framl. Id. 19'. And this luet csse wns held tQ dllft•r from Hurt "'·
Horton, 12 Tex. 2~ Id. The Mme princlples decided in Alexander v. Maverick. were ruled at the IIAJllt' term 
In Soye v. Mc< 'alllster, 18 Tex. 97. The petition of the administrator ~mve the court juri&dil'tlon. Ftneh v,
Edmonson\ 0 TeL rotj· approved In Poor v. Boyce, 12 Tex. 4411. All other questions, In the absenee of fraud. 
i.re conclur ed by the udzrnent, Id. It hll!I been assumed. gen<'rally, that a petition wu DE'~Mnry to give
Jurisdiction to tho probate court to order a SAie or the property •f deceased persona; to call Into exerclse the 
Juriadicti<>n or the court over thAt matter, But the question has not been nccessertly Involved lo the deciatoo
of any case, nnd It has not been authori. 1tlvely decided. Alexander v . .Maverick., lt:I Tex. 1~. In Lynch T. 
!:f:[Jt;,!x~t!.1h1~tt ~: ~:~~:-::;'~:;1 f.~11!~.~!s :~~:~tl~~r ttl1!h~1~'.t1T~~ ~~!,.u!;~e~l~ /ti::i!J!e 8:; 
that question, until It be set nslde hy a proeee.llng b:lvlng ttat ohject directly In ,iew; and the purchaser, in the
absence of trau«I, will be protected. (GrlJ!llOU v. Astor. 2 How, 819, 888.) Poor v. Boyce, 12 Tex. 449. Where 
there was an order of sale, and & sale under this seetton, but no oouflrmatlon or action or the court upon the re, 
port or the administrator, that the sale w1111 to N<'III upon a credit of twelve months ; and no evidence that the
purchucr gave hie notes, or paid for the land; and no deed W&!I made by the admlnl11trator, the sale could not be 
au11talned. Nem v. Cody,~ Tex. 2'39. The purchast'r w1111 not required to com11ly with the term, or the l!l&le,
until It was eonftrmed by the court, (Bradbury v. l~<'E'li. 28 Tex. 260.) Id. Something should have been done 
from which a confirmation ml1Zht be lnf .. rred, or at 1 .. sst somethina which entitled the purchuerto a con1lrma­
non. Id.; Llttlefteld v. Tinl!ley, 26 T<>x. 3:11 And where the adminl11trator made no report or the aa.le, until
eltod to mnko au oxhthlt or tho admlni11trntlon, which he did, mentlonlnir therein tlie 11&le, which reran 
'Wiii! ordered to be r!'t>or,le•I. It Is no npprovHI of the 1111le. Id. Nor dot'!! tht'I tact that the admlnletra&or
1ued the purchu..>r on thP not<' 1.riHn for the land. obtnlnod jndgment., and eold the Mme l&nd, ab"engthen the 
Cale. Id. This act oov.·btJru g-.ve the right to l!tlll for the purpoae of partlt.lon. But I.ho 24th 1eatio::i read u
folloWII:- 
§ (1106.) [24] That after the payment or the debts and expenses, and aner due notice
given, as provided in the 17th section of this act, of the distrilmtion or the estate, the same 
shall bo distributed under tho direction of the judge, to the parties legally entitled thereto. lf 
there ue no heirs or legatees, the administrator or executor shall pay the money in hand into
the treasury of the state, and deliver to the comptroller of public accounts, all papers and
documents relating to real estate, taking receipts therefore; and the receipts for the same oC
the treasurer and comptroller severally, shall be fl.led with the papers of the estate in the pro­
bate court. 
This must be oon1trued 1111 conferring the powtir to eell, eepeclAlly when a dlatrlbution could not be 
otbMwlse made. Llttlrfleld T. Tlnsle,, 20Tex. SM. Bnt all tho rrqul11ltca oCthe 17th eectlon mu1t be complied 
with, and notice was neC(•11sary. Id. The petition and notlee wore neceuary to the Jurledlctlon ot the court.
(Finch v. Edmonson, 9 Te~. M4.) Id. And the we, when regnlarly made, ts but an equity, until It ta oonftrmed. 
(Davis v. Stewart, 4 Tex. 228.) ld. · 
491. The following se,ctlon1 were relied upon to defeat an admlnl11trator'11 Mle on the ftrat Tuesday tn
February, 1848, "at tht> residence or the dece.ased." The petition was that It might be eo made ; but the order 
of the 16th January, 18'8, waa general to sell the IADd :- 
AN AOT REGULATING BALES BY JUDGKENT OR DBCR.EB 01' A PROBA.TB COURT, OB OOURT OP
CHANCERY. 
§ (1055.) [1] All sales, whether by order, judgment, or decree of any probnts court, or
court of chancery, shall be regulated and governed by the laws governing sales under
execution; and all laws which relate to sales under execution, shall be applicable to such sales
as above stated, and that this act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage. 
AN AOT BUPPLEDNTJ..BY TO 
II 
AN ACT REGUl,ATING BA.LES BY JUDOllENT OR DBORBB OF A
PROBATE COURT OR COURT OF OlliNCERY.11 
§ (1056.) [1] All sale& of the property of any deceased person, made by any adminis­
trator, curator, or guardian, under or ty the order, judgment, or d~cree of any probate court or
court of chancery, shall be made on a credit of twelve months ; any conflict in the act to
which this is a supplement, to the contr4U"Y notwithstanding. And this act shall take effect
from and after its passage. 
..1N ACT TO REGULA.TB PUDLIO SALES. 
§ (1057,) [1] All public sales in the republic, by sheriffs, constables, ndministrators, and
other persons, may be held at tho residence of the owner of the property, or at the late
residence of a deceased person ; or at any other place, by consent of the partios interested,
which will be most advantageous to the salo of the property: Provided, aJways, that real 
est.ate and slaves shall be sold at the court houso of the respective oouuties, unless an order or 
the court be had to sell at some other plaoo, any law to the contrary notwithsi.anding. 
ABT. (1058.) [I] All sales of the property of any deceased person, made by any admlnis- •
trator, executor, or guardian, under or by order of any judgment or decree of any probate
court, or court of chancery, shall be made upon a credit of twelve months, with security to the
satisfaction of such administrator, exocutor, or guardian, or for cash, as the said probate court,
or court of chancery, shall deem most advisable for the interest of the estate of said deceased 
person, and of the creditors thereof: Provided, that all such sales for cash shall be made upon
appraisement, and shall not be made for less than two-thirds of the appraised value of the
property to be sold : and provided, that in case any proporty ordered to be sold for cash, shall
not sell for two-thirds of its appraisement., it shall be within the discretion of tho judge to
re-order the sale, on a credit of twelve months. 
§ (1059.) [2] A like notice, as that required for sales under execution, shall be given for
all sales to be mude by virtue of this act; and that on all sales for cash, by virtue of this act,
the chief justice of tho county where such sales are to be made, or in his absence, the associate 
justices, shall, on the day of such sales, or a day previous, appoint throe appraisers, who shall
on oath appraise the value of the property to be sold : Provided, that the heirs or legatees of
such estate, if present in person, or by attorney, or guardian, shall have the right of appointing
one of said appraisers, by making said appointment in writing, filed in the clerk's office of the
probate court of the county where said sale is to take place. at least three days before the day 
o( sale ; and provided, that all such appraisers shall be freeholders of the county where such 
sale is to be made.
A.RT. (1060.) [3] That all laws and parts of laws contrary to, or oonflicting with this net be, 
and the same are hereby repealed. 
Jemison v, Gaston. Ill TeL i67-8. Tbe deed recites that there waa an appl'1ll.sement. and that la prima
fadiJ evidenee of the !DCt. It was not neceuary tbat the record should show It, nor that tbe purchaser should 
prove It. Jd. 211. The court had the authority to order the sale elsewhere than at the court house. (Hart. art.
106'i'.) Id, And the order must be understood a.s grantin~ the prayer of the petition to sell elsewhere. (Peters 
v. l:aton, 6 Tex. 604.J Id. Dlseonneeted with the petition, ft would not confer the authority. (Peters v.
Caton, 6 Tex. Ml) Id. The same point wu ruled In N!•lll v. Keese, l'i Tl!x. 28, 31. Id. The fon.·,olng arLlclea,
1067 and 1066, quoted. Neill v. Keese, l'i Tex. 81, 82.. And compared with tho execution law ot 1842. Peters v. 
Coton, o Tex. M1. Art. 1057 gave power to order the t111lo elsewhere than at the ~urt bouse, Neill v. Koo11t', I) 
*~= 
Tu. 31. And the two act& may stand together: and art. 105."i did not repeal art. 10:,i, i-ed at a subsequent day
of tho same session. (1 Kent's Com. 468, 466; 8 Hlll'l, N. Y. Rep, 88.) Id. 82, 88. Bnt if tho order ~ave no 
88 
~:!:'a ~~!::.'n~Je+!x~~l~he;:, t~!~~~eJ>~ho~~rlO(~l~Ie!~~!evd~~d 1~!0ad:~fb:·e ·;~~!~ 
title result.a to the man who pays the purchase money. (2 Story'11 Eq. S 1201, n. 2. a.) Nclll v. Kl't>IK\ l'itcx. 29.
And aftl'r the death of the holder of the legal title, parol evidence le admissible to prove tho tmst, (10 Y csey, 
611; 1 Johns. Cb. l'i82; 2 Id. 404; 8 Johns. 216: 8 Binn. 802; Lench v. Lench, l Vesey, !'ill; Boyd v. )lcu-an, 1
Johns. Ch, 5.52.) Id. Bat the oath ofa single wttness to the verbal acknowledgment or tht> tr1111t by tllll trustee,
111 not sufficient. (Boyd v. McL<'an, 1 Johns. Ch. ~:.!.) Id. 80. Where the title of the adtnfnlstrator l11 songht to ho
annulled, on tho ground ot fruuduhmt eombinatfon between the administrator and purehaser, the evidence must 
Implicate the latter In a partlclpancy In the alleged fraud. And that by proof, and not by Inference from other
fraudulent acts by the admlnlstrntor. Kellum v. Smith, 18 Tex, sn, et ,eq. In Howard v. Nurth (~ Tu. 290). 
this court hold that "sale ot land, by tho 11herlft', under execution. unless on the first 'fuet'tlay In the month, was
void, and an absolute nulllty. And In Peters v. Caton (6 Tex. l'iM). It wae Bald that "thtl law dxlng the time 
and place" of sale, ls not to be modified or changed, except by the order ot the court. ls as well known to the
pnrchnser u the a<lmln1etrator : and whon a change le mode, an Inspection of tho order of the court will show 
whether the admlnietrator 111 acting In conformity with the decree, A sale by an 11dmlnit1trotor, at a place and
ttme other than those preserlbed In the statute, or by decree. 111 not only irregular, but 111 In violation orlaw. and 111 
thereforee unauthorized and void. Brown v. Chr11Ul', Tyler T. 1!1 Tex. 7~. It the Bfile be void, no subsequent
act o(the parties OHn ever validate lt. Nor do we see that the court could do so, Id. But the rule In Peters v. 
l.'aton 111 tn be taken with the exception stated therein by Chief Justice Hemphill, vl:L :-" These anthor!Uee are
11ufflclent to show that eonformlty to the statute le essenttal to the validity ofsale11 of estate11; and that thereforee
the act of the admintstrator, In selling at a time and place not authorized by statute or decree, wae illegal. and 
nonfPrrcd no title on the pnrchaser ; but this i,:t•m·ral rule Is subject to modlflcatlon in parttcular c11:1ee-for
lnt1tance, If the 1111le bad ~enformaUv approeed. by the probate court. on motion or proceeding to that l"lfect,"
&c. Id. In Peters v. Caton, the sale had beeu made under the probate law of 1840, which 111 l'8M•nt1Ally dllfeN>nt,
tn tbla respect, from -tbe subsequent law under which the land In this controversy wae sold. ld. It mny well be
Mid. when there 111 no confirmation, that tho sale of the adrntntstrator, llk11 that of tho eherilJ'. 111 a nulllty, tr not 
made at the time and place prescribed t,y law. ld. But under the present law, the title of an estate or minor
le not divested until there 111 judicial action by tho probate court. Id. The sale, it not mad!' r.t the time and
place required by law, wu tfle~I. and should have been eot a.side by the probate court. And It It Improperly
coullrmed it, Its judgment rnhrht have been corrected liy a direct proceeding fortbat purpose, by any o.!e h.ntng
an Interest ln the estate. But It was not open to the collateral Inquiry to which It wu subjectod in thl1 Mae. 
(Alexander v. Maverick. lS Tex, 1 i9; and caees there cited.) Id • 
.ART. 1315. (1164) (55] When any executor or administrator shell
neglect to apply for an order to sell sufficient property of the estate he repre~
sents, to pay the expenses of administration and the claims against the estate
that have been allowed and approved, or established by suit; such executor
or administrator shall be required by the chief justice, on the application in 
writing of any creditor of the estate, whose claim has been allowed and
approved and established by suits, or any heir, devisee, or legatee of tl_ae
deceased, to present to the court at some regular term thereof a statement in 
writing, like that provided for in the preceding section; and upon proof to
the court, by any such creditor, heir, devisee, or legatee, that a necessity
exists for a sale, to pay the expenses of administration and the debtst,:>f the
estate, it shall be the duty of the chief justice to order such sale to be made :
Provided, the executor or administrator shall have been first cited. 
§ 1316. (1105) (56] Whenever there is property belonging to the
estate of n deceased person that is perishable or liable to waste, upon the
application in writing of the executor or administrator, or any heir, devisce,
or legatee of the deceased, or any creditor of the estate whose claim has been 
allowed and approved, or established by suit, the chief justice, by an order
entered on the minutes of the court, either in term time or in vacation, may
direct the sale of such property, or any part thereof: 
.AnT. 1317. (1166) f57] The chief justice, either in term , time or in
vacation, may, by an order entered on the minutes of the court, direct the
crops belonging to the estate of the deceased person, or any part thereof, to
be sold at private sale, upon the application in writing of the executor or ad­
ministrator, or any heir, devisee, or legatee of the deceased, or any creditor
of the estate, whose claim has been allowed and approved, or established by
suit: Provided, thnt no crops shall be sold under any such order at a price
less than their fair or market value. 
[AN .A.CT TO AMEND THE FIFTY-EIGHTH SECTION OF "AN AOJ' TO REGULA.TB
PROCEEDINGS IN THE COUNTY COURTS, PERTAINING TO KSTATES OP
DECEASED PERSONS." APPROTED KARCH 20Te, 1848. 
§ 1318. [1] That the fifty-eighth section, of the above recited act, be
so amended as to read as follows, to wit :-Sec. 58. All sales for the payment
of the debts, owing by the estate, shall be ordered to" be made of such pro­
perty as may be deemed most advantageous to such estate to be sold.] 
49~. The amended aecUon read as follows:- 
ABT. f116'l.) f58) All sales for the payment or the debts owing by the estate, shall be
ordered to be made of such property as may be deemed most advantageous to such estate to be
sold : Provided, however, that no order shall be made to sell the slaves belonging to au estaie, 
for the purpose aforesaid, until all other property subject to the payment of debts has been
ftrst sold, and it shall be shown to the court that the proceeds of such sales are insufficient to 
pay such debts ; unless it shall be necessary to sell such slaves, or a part thereof, for the satis­
faction of some debt that is secured by mortgage or other lien, on them ; or unless such estate
shall, by the exhibit of the executor, or administrator, or by ot.her evidence satisfactory to the
court, appea.r to be insolvent. 
§ 1319. {1168} (59] Any creditor of the estate of a deceased person,
holding a claim secured hy a mortgage, or other lien, which claim has been
allowed and approved, or established by suit, may obtain, at a regular term
of the court, flom the chief justice of the county where the letters testa­
mentary or of administration were granted, an order for the sale of the
property upon which he has such mortgage, or other lien, or so much of said
property as may be required to satisfy such claim, by making his application 
10 writing, and having a cop7 thereof served upon the executor or adrninis­
trator, with a citation requiring him to appear and answer such application. 
493. Although a mortgage 111 a privileged cla!m. yet funeral expenses, expenses of Jut slcknesa, and u­ 
pensos of' ndmlnlstrntlon, Includtng' the allowance to tho widow and children, and the expenses Incurred In tho 
preeervatlon, Wi.i keeping, and maneaemcut of the estate, have preference over tho mortgage. Uobto.rtaon "·
Paul, 16 Tex. 472. The mortgagee must present bl11 claim, and obtain tho order of the county court to sell, And
that the mortgage contains the power to sell, does not change It., eseential character, It 18 stlll a security, and 
nothing but a security for the debt. ltl. 470; Buchanan v. Munroe, 22 Tex. M2. But tr the mortgage -.·u jrlVE'D for
the purchase money of the property mortgaged. the price remaining wholly unpaid. the vendor bas tho better
rhcht, or superior title to the land. (Dunlap v, Wrii:bt, 11 Tex. ~1: Howard v. Davts, 6 Tex. 174.) Robertson ..,,
Paul, 16 Tex. 476. In such a CUS(', the pro1,t·rty 18 flrst subject to the payment of the 11urchase money secured b,: 
the rnortenee, Independent of' any debts ha,·lnir pr,·frrence over dt ht" genel'l\lly secured hy mortgage. Id. StiJJ
there 111 tho, same Dt'CN1slty fur the prvsentaticn for allowance and approval, duly autheuttcated, u In the cue 
of other mortgages. l<I.; Cunnlnghmn v, Taylor, 20 Tex. 129. But where It was not so presented, and the 
admlnlstrntrlx admitted tho murtcnee (In a ,mit for foreclosure) hut contested the rigbt, yet claimed tbe Janel ,~
the estat«, the supreme court ordered the case back to tbo county court, to hnve th« mor~ed pruP,f'.rtY sold n., 
the debt. Robertson Y. Paul, 16 Ti"X, 411. Throughout this act of 1841\ t.be term" allo,ca,i~' Is applied to
the acceptance by the admlntstrator ; and the term +approrul '' Is applied to tho judicial eanctton of thf' 
Judge. Danzey v. Swinney, 7 Tex .• 62.~. The mortg11ge creditor hna no right to apply for sale, unless tb« admln­
fstrator bas allowed, an,! the chlcf justice approved the claim, or unless it has been established by suit. IJ. 
Wbere Judgment bad been rendered In the llfc>tlme or the decedent, and land levied upon, It Is a eleer lien. bot
the sheriff' could not sell after tho death c•f the defendant, Burdett v. Chandler, 22 Tex. 14; Mc~iller T. But­
ler, 20 T,,x. 406. The county court bad the ri~bt to invc a erodlt of six month!', In lui order to 11(')1 the rroperty. 
Id. Tbl11 sectlon Is sufficiently eompn-henstve to embrace liens eenerally, loclucllng the vendor's lien. WhNler 
v. Love, !t Tex. 1>84; Cunningham vv Tnylor, 20 Tex. 129. The questlon 1111 to the manner ln which m~
liens should be enforced agnl1111t the estates of' deceased persons, bad been ftret decided In the eases of' Gl"llbain 
v. Vining, 1 Tex. 644, 64.6, and Martin v. Harrison, 2 Tex. 4M; and It wu bold, that It could only bf> enforced
through the probate court. Conkrite v, Hart, 10 Tex. Ht. See Fortson v. Caldwell, 1i Tt>x. ~- Under
the Inv: or 1846, relative to e!!tlltcs. rm execution ~nlnst n defendant abated at his death, and a sale &1\erwarda
was void. Id. This lnw or ls.i'< ls not materlally dllferent from that of lt.46, an,i there could be no enf.ll"Celllf'Dt 
of a Uc·n hy an execution undl'r It. Id. An,l that the• execution obAted by the <l,·nth of the party, nnd"r the law o( 
184i<, Is much more clear and positive. <;handler v. Burdett, 20 Tu. 48. Fun11ral c>Xfl('n11et1, the allo•ranee to tJ;e
widow, a!MI or ndm!ni11trntlon, takt~ prec>,•dencc of li, n11. Id. I.lens muet be t·nforcerl throui:h the prooe,,ia of'
the connt1"court. (Roht'rtson v. Pnul. 161\,x. 472; Hu1t~t·s11 v. Lilly, lt- Tl'X. 20l'>.) ld.44.. • Thl11!'('ctlon rompared
with l!l'ctfon 46, and with the l lSt.h t1ectlon of the act lo ri-l!'lJlate pr•><'C'l'•lln~~ in the district court. Cunning­ 
ham Y T1n-Jor. 20 Tex. 129; Gln·ns v. Davenport, S ·r.-x. 4t.S. It wus Intimate>,! in I>anz,·y v. Swinney(', TeL
6b), tllf\t fr the morti:a!!'o claim b,· rcject..-d, It mlcbt nut only be carri,·cl ton ju,li?mc•nt In the rlh1trict court. hut
thi1t the lncumbered property mhcht be sl'ized and sol<! by the sheriff. In s:LLisfnction of the judgnwnt, but tbe
better oplninn ~c>ems tu ht•, th:it th!' j11d;,mc•nt of th(· cll11trkt oourt i:.bould n1t r,•lv •·~t.ablish the murt~e. remit· 
Unit tbc erc>•lltCJr to the county court fur the 1111tlb1'&<•1ion of bis claim. Cunufna:hnm , .. Taylor, 20 Tc·x. 1211.
Wi'aere tht• mortua.~e llf\S not been re.i1,ct.t-,I. but 11pprov..-d and alluwe<l, the county cuurt alono has jurl~liction. 
let. Wb,·re a pnrt~· hut,)~ not,•fl given for l:in<l. for which ho hns only ext>cut..·d a title bond. It Is a lit'D w-ttbir
Ulla statute. ld.130. Whw1 the Jqment of the dialrict wurt not only iu ... a th1i auiountot' the det,\ or dump 
bnt a1eo the lieu, then the lien 111 enforced In the district court. Given T. Dannport, 8 Tex. 480. A sale by the
wtdow, who had a community Interest, 111 overrode by a subsequent sale by the admlnt11trator. Mltchell v. 
De Witt. 20 Te:r. 299. Where the deceased held a deed for land as a naked trustee, the claim need not be preM>ntt'd to the administrator, but suit may at once be brought In the district court. Vandever v. Freeman, 20
Te:r.836. 
§ 1320. (1169) [60] When an ap{>lication is made to the chief justice
for an order to sell any property belonging to the estate of a deceased per­
son, for the payment of debts, any person interested in such estate, may, at
any time before an order is made thereon, file his opposition in writing to
such sale, or may make application in writing for the sale of other property 
of the estate; and upon the bearing of the matter in controversy, the chief
• justice shall make such order thereon as the circumstances of the case may 
require, having due regard to the provisions of this act . 
.ART. 1321. (1170) (61] Whenever any property of an estate is ordered
to be sold by the chief justice, such order shall be entered on the minutes of
the court ; shall describe the property to be sold, and shall specify the terms
of such sale. 
§ 1322. (1171) (62] Sales of personal property, other than slaves, for
the payment of debts1 may be ordered either for cash, or on such credit as the
chief justice may direct; and all sales of land or slaves, for the payment of
debts, shall be made on a credit of twelve months, except when such sales are
ordered to raise the amount of the allowance that may be made under the 
provisions of the forty-fourth and forty-fifth sections of this act, or for the
satisfaction of a mortgage, or other lien, on said land or slaves; in which
cases, such sales shall be made on such terms as the chief justice may direct. 
494. Chandler v. Burdett, 20 Tex. 43. The sale for the allowance or tho widow .and children, may be tor 
eaah. W ood v. Wheeler, 11 Tex. 126. 
§ 1323. (l 1 '12) (63] All sales ordered by the chief'justice shall be made
to the highest bidder, and at public auction, unless otherwise directed by the 
will of the testator, or otherwise ordered by the chief justice under some pro­ 
vision of this act. 
,&95. A l&le at any other place than that prucribod by law, or directed In th,. order or sale, ta void. Petere 
T. Caton, G TeL M7. 
§ 1324. {1173) [641 Whenever, in a will, power is given to an executor
to sell any property of the testator, no order of the chief justice shall be 
necessary to authorize the executor to make such sale ; and when any particu­
lar directions are given by a testator in his will, respecting the sale of any
property belonging to his estate, the same shall be followed, unless creditors
or heirs may thereby be prejudiced in their rights. 
496•. The executor may sell (or the conservation or the estate, before the probate or the will. And tr there 
be. no lntentlonnl malfeasance, Buch sale wlll not defeat the right to the icnnrdlnnshlr. Stone v. Dorsett, 18 Tex. 
T09. Au 11dmlnhltrator cannot maintain a suit on a note, given fur the purchase money or la11tl sold by him, while
be fails and refuseB to return the sale. and have It conllrmed. Dowling v. Duke, 20 Tex, 181. 
§ 1325. (1174) rasJ Whenever a public sale of property is ordered
under the provisions of thi~ act, if the same be personal property other than
slaves, it shall be advertised at least ten days before the day of sale; if the
same be land or slaves, it shall be advertised at least twenty days before the
day of sale. The manner of advertising shall ~e by posting a notice of such
sale at the court house, and at two other public places in the county where
the sale is to be made, but not in the same city or town. All such public
sales shall be made within the hours of 10 A. M., and 4 P. M. ; in case the day
set apart for such sale shall be insufficient to complete the same, such sale
may Le continued from day to day, by giving public notice of the continu­
ance at the conclusion of the sale of each day, and the continued sale shall
commence and close within the same hours. All such public sales of personal
property other than slaves, shall be made at such time and place as may be
directed by the chief justice in the order of sale; all such public sales of land
or slaves shall be made on the first Tuesday of the month, at the court house
door of the county where the letters testamentary or of administration were
granted, unless the chief justice shall deem it to the advantage of the estate
to order the sale in the county in which the property is situated; and in all
cases where such public sale is ordered to be made in any other county than
that in which the letters testamentary or of administration were granted,
such sale shall be advertised in both counties. · 
.ART. 1326. (1175) [66] When any person shall bid off property offered
for sale, rent, or hire, at public auction, by an ·executor Qr ad.IQinii;t~tor1 and 
sh:111 fail to comply with the terms of sale, renting, or hiring, such property
shall be re-advertised and sold, rented, or hired ; and the person so fhiliug to
comply, shall be liable to pay to such executor or administrator, for the use 
of the estate, five per cent. on the amount of his bid ; and also the deficiency
in price on the second sale, renting, or hiring, if any such deficiency there
be--to be recovered by such executor or administrator, by action brought
before a justice of the peace, or in the district court, according to the amount
of such penalty or deficiency. 
49'7. This remedy Is merely cnmnlettve, and not Intended to take away the common lllw remE'dy, or the
remedy by snit to compel the speclftc performance of the contract. Dawson v. Miller, 20 TP:t, li8. Rut 1, 
1'11uld seem the contract to purchase 0111!!t be In writing, to support a 11ult for specific performane<>. Id. l'l"­ 
Thts section compared with the next, Bradbury v. Reed, 2li Tex. :!60. Until tlie approval contemplated bv
the noxt seetton, the bidder wlll not be In defKult fur failing to comply with the terms or the R:1.lfl; an,! nntl,l 
then, no action will be Rjmlnst him under this secuon. Id, When the bidder refueee to comply, the adminis­
tnator has only to re-advr-rttse, and proceed again to sell the property; and a new order of sale is not reqnlr-ed,
Short v. Ramsey, 18 Tex. 898. This should be done as soon aa the admlnl11trator reasonably can. Id. From 
January unUI December I:! tQP long, even as to the salo of land. Id. The bidder la thus released. Id. An
administrator rannot refuse tl'fo note tendered, unlesa he ha8 flood reason to doubt the 11olvency of the maker 
and suretfee, And If he does refuse, he la liable for Immediate damages. Hope v. Alley, 9 Ttlx. 896. 
§ 132'1. (11 '16) [67] When a sale of property is ordered under the
provisions of this act, it shall be the duty of the executor or administrator to
make such sale, or cause it to be made in obedience to the order, at the
earliest period; and when such sale has been made, it shall be the duty of
the executor or administrator, to return to the court that ordered the sale,
an account thereof--either in term time or vacation-within thirty days after
the day of sale. Such account of sale shall be in writing, shall specify the
property sold, the name of the purchaser, the price for which it was sold, and
tbe terms of sale, and shall be sworn to and subscribed by such executor or
administrator, before some officer authorized to administer oaths; whenever
such account of sale is returned, such return shall be noted in the minutes of
the court, and at the term of the court when it is returned ; or if returned in
vacation, at the first term thereafter, it shall be the duty of the chief justice
to inquire into the manner in which such sale was made; and if satisfied that
it was fairly made, and in confonnity with law, he shall cause to be entered
on the minutes of the court, a decree confirming it, and ordering the account
of sales to be recorded by the clerk, and a conveyance to be ma<le to the pur­ 
chaser of either land or slavea, by the executor or administrator; if not s:1ti~
fled that such sale was so made, he shall cause to be entered, in like manner,
a decree setting it aside, and ordering a new sale to be made. After any
such decree of confirmation shall have been made, upon the purchaser com­
plying with the terms of sale, the executor or administrator shall execute
and deliver to him a conveyance of the propertr so sold, if it were either land
or slaves, reciting therein the decree confirming the sale, and ordesing the
conveyance to be made, which conveyance of land or slaves so made, shall
vest the right and title that the testator or intestate bad, in the purchaser,
and shall be prima facie evidence that all the requisites of the law have been
complied with in making the sale ; and such decree of confirmation of the
sale of personal property, other than slaves, shall in like manner vest the right
and title thereof in the purchaser, and shall be Jike evidence that all the
requisites of the law have been complied with in making the sale of such per­
sonal property. 
498. The chief justice Is required to affirm the sale or not, as he may or may not be" aamfled" of It•
falrn('l't!I; and In Its Vf!l'y nature, It would seem that such II dlscretton cannot be the subject or revtslon, (Davis 
v. Stewart, 4 Te:m:. 228; Yerby v. Hlll, 16 Tex. 871.) Welle v. Miiis, 2'l Tex. 805. Until the county court 11.p­
provl!8 the sale, the bidder ocqnlres no rl~ht. Id. 'Wht•re the order was to sell property enongh to raise four 
thoneand dollars, whun the ndmlul8trator bad aold land to that amount, hie power WBI! exhansted. nnd he wu 
without authority to make the eale · the judge, thereforee, very properly refused to conflnu It. hi. 305, 306. ·Y,,
suit brthe purchaser lies ~ln8t the admlnletr·3tor for specific performance; his remedy, 1r he b~ nny. h by 
appea. Yerby v. Hill, 16 Tex. 881; Davis v. Stewart, 4 Tex. 226. This act or 1848 repealed the oct or 1St6;
but the 17th section of the latter uct reposed the 1111.me dlecretion In the judge. Davis v. Stewart, 4 Tex, ~J6.
A purchaser at admlnl11trator's sale takes nil the title, and only the title, which the tntestate had, 11ubj1..,-<"t only
to such equltlea aa he mlzht havP aseertnlned by ordinary dlliicence. He Is not chargeable w1tlr the knowlt!<.ltte
of the admlnlstrator, Love v. Berry, 22Tex. 877. The maxim of catJtiat emptor, applies; and n:~~ defect of
title cannot 11.vnll the purchaser, either 1111 n defense to an action for the purchase money, or as ll ground for re­
sc!nding the contract, (Lynch v. Baxter, 4 Tex. 481.) Thompson v. Munger, I~ Tex. 027; Wlllinms v. McDonald,
18 Tex. 828. Where the administrator advertised to hire elaves, under this eectlon, for note wltb security, and
the hirer tendered a note with the required security, which the admlnlstrator refused to sccept ; the hirer
was entitled to nominal damages, and to such Immediate special dam~e8 as be could prove, An,l if the admin­
Istrator plead that the security was lnt,nff\elent. the jury must determine the question of sufficiency from the
evidence. Hope v, Alley. 9 Tex. 89M. A sale of the Tega! title, with notice or the equitable title. and n eonfir­
matton by the probate court, does not bar the equity of redemption, or right to recover under the superior
equltablo title. Wilson v. Fisk, 10 Tex. 482. Unless the purchaser (at 11. guardian's sale) comply with the
terms or the sale, the deed to him le void, oven If It be approved by thP county court. Judaon v. Sierra, ti
Te:s. 870. Equtteble title without conveyance. Sypert v . .McCuwen, 28 Tex. ~ 
§ 1328. (1177) [68] It shall not be lawful for any executor or admm­
istrator to take the estate of his testator or intcstute, or any part thereof, at 
its appraised value; or to sell the same, or any part thereof, unless under the 
directions of the will or the order Oi the chief justice under the provisions of
this act; or to become the purchaser, either directly or indirectly, of any
property of the estate sold by him : and if any executor or administrator
should, either directly or indirectly, become the purchaser of any of the
property of his testator or intestate, at a sale made by him-upon the com­
plaint of any person interested in the estate and service thereof, and of citation on such executor or administrator-such sale shall be declared void by
the chief justice, and such executor or administrator decreed to hold the
property so purchased in trust, as assets of the estate. Nor shall it be law­ 
ful for any executor or administrator, either directly or indirectly, to pur­
chase, for his own use, any claim against the estate he represents; and if any
executor or administrator should purchase any such claim-upon the complaint in writing of any person interested in the estate, and service thereof,
with a citation on such executor or administrator-he shall be decreed by the
chief justice to hold such claim in trust for the use of the estate ; and he shall
only be entitled to receive from the estate the amount he shall prove to have
been paid by him therefore; such amount to be paid pro rata with other
creditors of an equal degree. 
AnT. 1329. (1178) [691 It shall be the duty of every executor or adminis­ 
trater to take such care of the property of his testator or intestate, real and
personal, as a prudent man would take of his own property ; and if there be
any buildings or houses belonging to the estate, it shall be his duty to keep
the same in tenantable repair-e-extraordinary casualties excepted; and all
reasonable expenses incurred by the executor or administrator, m taking such
care of the property, or iu making such repairs, on sufficient proof thereof,
shall be allowed him by the chief justice. 
§ 1330. {1179.) r7o] After the return of the inventory, if there be at
any time in the possession of the executor or administrator, a plantation or
slaves belonging to the estate, or any other property that may be rented or
hired, so as to produce an income to the estate, and the disposition thereof
is not specially directed by the will of the testator, or by the provisions of
this act, or if the same is not required to be at once sold for the payment of
debts, or claims of any kind against the estate, it shall be the duty of the
executor or administrator to apply to the chief justice for an order to carry
on such plantation, or to rent the same and hire out the slaves, and to rent
or hire such other property for the benefit of the estate. Upon such appli­
cation being made, it shall be the duty of the chief justice, either in term time
or vacation, to make an order for such executor or administrator either to carry
on such plantation, or to rent the same, and hire out the slaves, as to the chief 
justice shall appear most for the interest of the estate,-and to hire or rent
such other property. Such order shall be entered on the minutes of the court;
and in making the same, the chief justice shall take into consideration the
condition of the estate, and the necessity that may exist, for future sale of
such property for the payment of debts or claims of any kind against the
estate; and shall not extend the time of carrying on such plantation, or for
renting or hiring any of the property, beyond what may consist with the
speed1 settlement of the estate. In 'carrying on a plantation, or in renting
or hirmg any such property, under such order, all reasonable expenses incurred
hy the executor or administrator shall be allowed by the chief justice, on
proper proof thereof; and if any executor or administrator shall fad to make
such application, or to obey any such order when made, he and his sureties
on his bond shall be liable, at the suit of any person interested in the estate
-for the use and benefit of the estate-for such amount as might have reasonably been produced by carrying on such plantation, or by renting or hiring 
such property. 
JAN A.O'r TO .illEND THE SEVENTY-FIRST SECTION OF "AN A<Jr TO REGULA.TE
PROCEEDINGS IN THE COUNTY COURTS, PERTAINl.NG TO EST.A.TES OP' DE- 
CEASED PERSONS." APPROVED MARCH 20'ra, 1848.
§ 1331. [l] The seventy-first section of" An act to regulate proceed- 
ings in the county courts, pertaining to estates of deceased persons," approved
March 20th, 1848, be amended so as hereafter to read as follows, to wit:-. 
Bee. 71. That whenever any prot>erty is rented or hired by an executor or 
administrator, under the provisions of this act, such renting or hiring shall be 
public auction to the highest bidder, after having given at least ten
days notice thereof by posting a copy of such notice at the court house, and 
at tw? other public places in t~e ~oun.ty w~ere ~be samE: is to take p}ace, or
by private agreement, as the chief JUSt1ce, either m vacation or term tune, by 
order shall direct, which order shall be entered on the minutes of the
court. 
§ 1332. (2] That the provisions of the above section of this act shall
apply as well to the renting or hiring of property by a guardian, as by an 
executor or administrator : Provided, that an account in writing and under
oath, of such renting or hiring, shall in all cases be returned to the court, and
subject to the approval of the chief jnstice.] 
§ 13 3 3. ( 1181) f 12] Whenever an executor or administrator sells
property of the estate he represents on a credit, either under the directions 
of the will of the testator, or under an order of the chief justice, he shall
take the note of the purchaser for the amount of his purchase, with good per­
sonal security; and if land or slaves have been sold, lie shall also take a
mortgage upon the property sold, to secure the payment of the purchase
money.* And if the executor or administrator shall neglect to take such note,
security, and mortgage, he and the sureties on his bond, shall be liable, at
the suit of any person interested in the estate-for the use of the estate-for
the amount of such sales ; and w benever any executor or administrator, shall
rent or hire any property of bis testator or intestate, on a credit, under the
provisions of tJns act, he shall take the note of t~e person hiring or renting such
property, for the amount of the hire or rent, with good personal security ; and
if he shall fail to take such note and security, he and his sureties shall in like
manner be liable for the amount thereo£ 
499. An aclmtnletrator may sue sueb contracts In hie own name; and the del!Crlptlon, "ae admlnletntor, ft 
may be treated as d~iptw pn-ll<>ffta, and mere eurplusage. (G8yle v. Ennis, 1 Tex. 16', 189; Butler v. Rob­ 
ertson, 11 Tex. 148.) Claiborne v. Y oeman ll'i Tex. 46. And If the note be payable to A. B., "curatrtx," &«:.,
such payoo may tnrnsfer the lt>i:al title. (McKinney v. Petr111, Dallam, M4; G11yle v. Ennis, 1 Tex. 184.) Llpt­ 
comb v. Ward, 2 Tex. 2T8. Thia l111t e&110 bolds that such 1wn1on mav 11u,• in hie own name, and revll'WI! &'l"ley 
on Btlls, p, 886; Hunter v. Postlethwalte, 10 Mart. 4M; Urquhart v. TRylor, 6 Mart. 200: Wald11mlth v. W:ild­
emlth, 2 Hnmmond 0. 1116; Willie v. Lewie, Lord Rnym. Hllll; Chitty on Bille, 801; Smith v. Whiting. 9 M&M. 
190, and other common law autbnritlea. Gayle v. Ennli, 1 Tex. 186. 18T. Gayle v. Ennts afflrme,l in Grooe T. 
Herndon, 2 Tex, 412. It ts well settled, that at admlnl!!trator'11 sale, the rule obtalne which 111 embraced In the
Jihrn&t.• eueent emptor. (Lynch v. Ba'\:ter, 4 Tex. 431; Edmonson v. Hart, 9 Tex. M4; Wllllam11 v . .McOonal,L 18
Tex. 32'.t.) Walton v, R,·a~er. 20 Tex. 109. This means, thet the rurch&IW'rmu11t exercise hl11 ownjud,tmt-nt upoo
wbattover he rc·11.11ouubly bat1 the means of e~c-rd11lng his judgment upon. pt-rtalning to the thl.n,rs sold. Id. And
where the taet11, as to tht' title, are equally sceessfble to both, the 1Ldmlnl11trator·11 mistakes or ml11reptel!l('ntatl<>11!
do not take the CAI!<' out of the rule careat emptor. Mitchell v. Zimmerman, 4 Tex. SO. If the lnU>st&tA>, ,,r the 
admlnl~trntor, hnd olrendy «nee sold the land, the pureheser would be relieved, [Crayton , •. Munger. i Tex.
286.) Walton v, 1'e!lller, 20 Tex. 109. Or wbere there were false repreeentatlvns as to the qunntlty of land rented, 
where the party <lec,·lved had not fairly the means or detecting the ml111&1te. (Mitchell v. Zlmmel'IDAJl. .a Ta.
76.) Id. 110. ()r wht're the administrator bad already ralsed the location, and concealed the tact. (Coombs r, 
Lene, 1 T T11:'f. 282.) Id, Or wbc•re the administrator made fall!O repreeeutattons N'l!pectln,r the qmalltv or I slin1•,
(A hie v. Chandler, 12 Tex. bS.) Id But If the purehaser would avoid the now, he must surrender the thing
purchased. Lynch v. Baxter, 4 Tex. 486. Ir the plea allelfe, thAt by combination and fraud the mol'tgajre M'Cllrlty 
was not tllk,•n, they must charge thnt they were deceived, or Induced to sign by !Rise promtses," 'Wornell r. 
Wllllnms, 19 Tex. 188. The mortgage should be contemporaneous with the note, and It 111 the duty or the seeurl
ties to see that it wn11 taken. Id. If they truet to the admlnl11trator, and he dues not talte the mortgage, the 
eatate 111 not to suffer. Id. Certainly, where the purcb11110r acqutred good title, he cannot object to the power of
the administrator to make the sale, Edward11 v. Re.guet, 19 Tex. 166. 
§ 1334. (1182) ['73] Every executor or administrator shall use ordi­
nary diligence to collect every claim due to the estate he represents ; and to
recover possession of all property to w.hich the estate has a right : Provided,
there is a reasonable prospect that such claim can be collected, or such
property recovered; and if any executor or administrator shall neglect to
use such diligence, he and his sureties on his bond, shall be liable at the suit
of any person interested in the estate-for the use of the estate-for the
amount of such claims, and the value of such property as may have been lost
by his neglect to use such diligence. [May compound debts, with the con· 
sent of the county court.] 
500. The debtor may pleed a set-otr, and may eetabl111b It and have It allowed, without baV1ng 11w0?9 to 
and presented It to the administrator, 118 required by prevloue secttone, (Morton v. Gordon, Dallam, 1196.)
Smalll'y v. Trammel, 11 Tex. 10. A set-oft' is a mutual extlngutshment or the demands or the re:!<l)CCti:• 
partlt'S. Id. 11. And even where the 11ult 111 by the admini!trstor for thP. Vl\lllt- of n~set.s 5old bv him, the! pur­
chaser can pll•ad an otf!lt't. where he i11 the only or almost the only creditor. Hall \'. Hall, 11 '!:ex.~- It Is 
doubtful ,11heth<'r tho administrator may eel! the note11 required to be collected nniler tfile 11ectton. Perry ,
Booth, 7 Tell:. 491. 
§ 1335. (1183) ['74] If there be more than one executor or admini:i·
trator named in the letters, i:my one or more of them, on the neglect of the
rest, may retnrn an inventory as required by this art; and the executor or
administrator so neglecting, shall not thereafter interfere with the estate, or
have any power over the same; but the executor or administrator so return­
ing, shall have thereafter the whole adUlin;qtration-unlos.:i within two 
mouths aft.er the return, the delinquent or delinquents shall ·assign to the· 
court some reasonable excuse, wbicb,it shall deem satisfactory .
.ART. 1336. (1184} ('15] The nammg an executor in a will, shall not operate 
to extinguish any just claim which the deceased had against him; and in all 
cases when an executor or administrator may be indebted to bis testator or
intestate, he shall account for the debt in the same manner as if it were so
much money in his hands : Provided, however, that if said debt was not due
at the time of receiving letters, he shall only be required to account for it
from the date when it sbal(become due. 
§ 133'7. (1185) ('76] Whenever an executor or administrator •shall
think it will be for the interest of the estate he represents, to purchase any 
property, or take any claims for the use and benefit of the estate in payment
of any debt due to the estate, he may present a petition to the chief justice at 
a regular term of the court, representing these facts ; and if the chief justice
shall be satisfied that it will be for the interest of the estate to purchase such 
property, or take such claims, he may make a decree authorizing such executor
or administr~tor to make such purchase, either at public or private sale, or to 
take such claims for the use and benefit of the estate.
.ABT. 1338. (1186) ['7'7] When the mortgagee of any property shall die, 
the executor or administrator of such mortgagee shall be, and he is herebv
authorized, on receiving from the mortgagor, or any person for him, th·e
amount due to the estate he represents, to release to the mortgagor the
legal title to such mortgaged property, and such release shall be valid. 
A~T. 1339. (118'7) L '78] The debts due from an estate shall be paid by
the executor or administrator in the following order :- 
1st. Funeral expenses and expenses of last sickness. 2d. All expenses
of administration, including the allowance that may be made under the provisions of the 44:th and 45th sections of this act; and the expenses incurred
in the preservation, safe keeping, and management of the estate. sd, Debts
secured by mortgage, or having a lien, whether by judgment or execution,.
or otherwise, so far as the same can be paid out of the proceeds of the
property subject to such mortgage or lien ; and when more than one of such
mortgages and liens, or any of them exist upon the same property, the oldest 
shall be first paid. 4th. All other debts, and no preference shall be given to
debts secured by mortgage, or having a lien by judgment, execution, or
otherwise, further than regards the property subject to such mortgage or 
lien. When there is a deficiency of assets, debts of the fourth class shall
only be paid pro rata ; and no executor or administrator shall be allowed to
pay any claims of the fourth class, whether the estate is solvent or insolvent,
except with their pro rata amount of the funds of the estate that have come 
to hand. 
501. Thie eectton compared with 79 81, and Si. Loekhart v. White, 18 Tex. 108. This section declares
the onlt>r tn which the debts eball be J>&ld; and by the 79th eectton, the admlntetrator, when he ahall have 
funde of the estate, ts required to pay. Id.
§ 1340. (1188) ('79] Executors and administrators shall be entitled to 
receive, and may retain in their hands, five per cent. upon the sums they may
actually receive in cash ; and the same upon all sums they may pay away, in
cash, in the course of their administration. All reasonable expenses incurred
by an executor or administrator in the preservation, safe keeping, and man­
agement of the estate, and all reasonable attorneys' fees that may be incurred
in the course of the administration, shall be allowed by the chief justice, on
proof that there was a necessity therefore. Whenever in the opinion of the
chief justice, the commission upon the sums received, and paid away, is not 
sufficient compensatlon for his services ; or if, from the circumstances of the
estate, extraordinary services were required to be rendered, the chief justice 
shall allow such further compensation as may seem reasonable. 
502. The admlnietrator ahould haw vouchers to cstnbllsh these llabllltlca. Davenport v. Llnrrence, 19 
Tex. 819. lt be 11eeks greater compens.ulon tluu: hi11 commissions. be should present bis acoount therefore, and 
hne tt allowed by the chief jnsUcc. Id. Thu chic! juP.th·e nets UJWn fact&. or bl11 own knowledtre: and hl11
judgment.1111hould be entered ; and thev are subject to revision, as in other cases. Id. A previou allowancelia 
favor or the admtnlatratrb: mny be stricken out on final settlement, ns it ls not until then ru ad,lud4cat4.
ID,raham v. Roger&, 9 Tex. 467. There must be a cowpllance with thla article. Price ,., .Koh•, 16 Tu. no. 
ABT. 1841. {1189) f80] Executors and administrators, whenever they
have funds in their hands belonging to the estate they represent, shall pay,- 
tst, The funeral expenses and ~expenses of last sickness. 2d. Expenses
of administration, inclnding the allowance that may be made under the pro- 
visions of the forty-fourth and forty-fifth sections of this act; and the expenses 
incurred in the preservation, safe keeping, and management of the estate, 
when such claims have been allowed, and approved, or esrabllshed ; and if
they shall fail or refuse so to do, when required by the holder of such claims,
the person holding any such claim may obtain an order from the chief justice,
at a regular term of the court, directin~ Ruch payment to be made, upon
making proof that such executor or administrator has funds of the estate in
bis hands, sufficient to make such payment, and fails or refuses to make it: 
Provided, such executor or administrator shall have first been cited on the
complaint of the bolder of such claim, to appear and show cause w by such
order should not be made. 
503. Reasonable attorneys' tees, paid by the adminiatrator, may be allowed; and he may bind the t'8tate 
tor such. Portis v. Cole, 11 Tex. :ffi9. 
ABT. 1342. (1190) [81] Whenever any executor or administrator shall
have in his hands the proceeds of a sale that has been made for the satisfac­
tion of a mortgage or other lien, and such proceeds, or any part thereof, are
not required for the payment of any debts against the estate, that have a
preference over such mortgage or other lien, it shall be the duty of such
executor or administrator immediately to pay over such proceeds, or so much
thereof as may not be required for the payment of any debts against the
estate that have a preference over such mortgage or other lien, to the credi­
tor or creditors having a right thereto ; and if any executor or administrator
shall fail or refuse so to do, such creditor or creditors, upon proof thereof,
may obtain an order from the chief justice, in like manner as is provided in
the preceding section, clirecting such payment to be made. • 
§ 1343. (1191) [82] At the first term of the court after the expiration
of twelve months from the time of the original grant of letters testamentary
or of administration, it shall be the duty of the executor or administrator to 
return to the court an exhibit, in writing, sworn to and subscribed by him,
setting forth a list of all claims against the estate that were presented to him
within twelve months after the said grant of letters testamentary or of
administration, specifying which have been allowed by him; which have
been rejected, and the date when rejected; which have been sued upon, and
the condition of the suit; also, setting forth, fully, the condition of the
estate ; and if any executor or administrator shall ne~lect to return such
exhibit . at the term of the court named above, it shall be the duty of the
chief justice to revoke his letters-either in term time or in vacation-on the
complaint of any person interested in the estate, without notice to such
executor or administrator. 
ABT. 1344. {1192} rsa] Upon the return of the exhibit mentioned in the
preceding section of tliis act, if it shall appear therefrom, or by any other
evidence, that the estate is solvent-taking into consideration, as well the
claims presented before the expiration of twelve months from said granting
of letters testamentary or of administration, on which suit has been, or can
yet be instituted, as those so presented, allowed, and approved, or estab­
lished by judgment-and that the executor or administrator has in his hands
sufficient funds for the payment of all the aforesaid claims, it shall be the
duty of the chief justice to order immediate payment to be made of all the
claims allowed and approved or established by judgment: if he has funds in
bis hands, but not sufficient for the payment of all the said claims ; or if the
estate be insolvent, and he bas any funds in his hands, it shall be the duty of
the chief justice to order such funds to be applied to the payment of all
claims having a preference, in the order of their priority, if they or any-of
them be still unpaid; and then to the payment, pro rata, of the other claims
allowed and approved or established ; taking into consideration, also, the
claims that were presented within the twelve months, and in suit, or on
which suit may yet be instituted. 
504. Upon thh1 exhibit, the court decrees payment tn proportion to the solvency or the estate. Lodthart
v. Wbtte, 18 Tex. 108. Some claims may be paid by the adminfstrator, without the delay or twl'lve monthe, or
an order or the court, as those or the l1111t sickness, or admlnlatratton, &c. These are first In rank, and none
other& can claim a pro rota distribution with them. Id. The order or the court la not nJ.)cessary ~ the
nlldlty or a payment, if it be proper ln itMlr. Id. And if the administrator P."Y one or a. class, or not In
order, t.hat does not make him liable for the debts unpaid ont or hi& own pru})erty. Id. 'fhe county court 
might reruae to allow such payment, ln the account of die Bllmlnlstrator, and make him liable to the extent of
the useta thus mlanpplled; but the admlniatrator eonld claim to 11tand in the place or the credit.ors pald by 
him, and receive the proportion due to them. (2 Williama on .Executors, 891, note q.) Id. The lln,Ung
.. propert}'" ln the hands ot the admtnlatntor, is not sufficient to authorize an order of paymenL Ray"· Par, 
Iona, 14 TeL 1172. 
ABT. 1345. (1193) [84] At the third regular term of the court after the
expiration of twelve months from the original grant of letters testamentary 
or or amD;inistration, it shall be the duty of the executor or administrator, to
return to the court a further exhibit in writing, sworn to and subscribed by 
Qim. Aet.tini? forth a list of all suits that have been instituted a~ainst him since
the return of the exhibit required by the eighty-second section of this act ;
the condition of such suits, and all suits previously instituted; specifying
which of said suits are upon claims presented to him within twelve months 
after such grant of letters; and which upon claims presented after the twelve
montss : also setting forth a list of all claims that have been presented to him 
.ince the expiration of the twelve months from said grant of letters ; specifying
which have been allowed by him, and which have been rejected, with the date 
of the rejection. And he shall also, from time to time after the said term,
return to the court a further exhibit under oath, setting forth a list of all
claims presented to and allowed or rejected by him since the return of his
former exhibit, with the date of the rejection ; and, also, of all suits instituted
against him, and all judgments rendered upon suits against him, since his 
former return. And any executor or administrator, who shall fail to return to
the court any exhibit as required by this section, shall be removed by the
ehief justice without notice-either in term time or vacation-on the complaint
of any person interested in the estate. 
§ 1346. (1194) [85] Claims for money against the estate of a deceased
peff'on, which may be presented to the executor or administrator after the
expiration of twelve months from the original grant of letters testamentary
or of administration, and allowed by him, and approved by the chief justice, 
or established by suit, shall be paid by the executor or administrator, at an7
time before the estate is finally closed, when he has £unds of the estate in his
hands, over and above what may be sufficient to pay all debts of every kind
against the estate, that were presented within the twelve months and allowed 
and approved, or established by suit, or that may be so established ; and an
order for the payment of any such claim, upon proof that the executor or
administrator has such funds, may be obtained from the chief justice in like
manner as is provided in this act, for creditors to obtain orders· of payment. 
§ 1347. (1195) f86l At the third regular term of the court after the
expir~tion of twelve months from the original grant of letters testamentary
or of administration, or at any term of the court after that, any person
interested in the estate may, by complaint in writing, filed in the county court,
cause the executor or administrator to be cited to appear at a regular term
of the court, and make an exhibit in writing, under oath, to the court, setting
forth fully, in connection with the previous exhibits, the condition of the
estate he represents; and if it shall appear to the court by said exhibit, or 
by other evidence, that such executor or administrator has any funds of the
estate in his hands subject to distribution among the creditors of the estate,
it shall be the duty of the chief justice to order the same to be paid out to 
them acco:c.,ding to the provisions of this act: or any executor or administrator may voluntarily present such exhibit to the court, and if he has any funds
of the estate in his hands subject to distribution among the creditors of the
estate, a like order shall be made. 
505. H la sufficient to state tacts, which, Ir true, show that tbe party la lllterl'l&ted In the eetate. Langley 
T, Barria, i8 Tex. Mi. The particularity of pleadlng' In the district court, Is not necessary, Accounu of the
administrator, not already allowed by the chief justice, are not concluded in favor or the &dmlnletrntor by the
nhlblt. Davenport v. Lawrence, 19 Tex. 819, t2-0. Tho probate Judge may call for an exhibit or the account.a 
(but not for payment) without the motion of the heir. Thompson v. Buckley, 1 Tex. 8~ 
ABT. 1848. (1196) [871 At any time after the first term of the court,
after the expiration of twe1ve months from the original grant of letters testa­
mentary or of administration, the heirs, devisees, or legatees of the estate, or
any of them, may, by their complaint in writing, filed in the county court,
cause the executor or administrator, and t~~ heirs, devisees, or legatees of
the estate, to be cited to appear at a regular term of the court, and show 
eause why a partition and distribution should not be made among the heirs,
devisees, or legatees, of the residue of the estate, if any there be, after retain­
ing in the hands of the executor or administrator a sufficient portion thereof
to pay all debts of every kind against the estate, that have been allowed and 
proved, or established by suit, or that have been rejected by the executor
administrator, or not approved by the chief justice, and may yet be estab­ 
ed. And if it shall appear to the chief justice, after the service of such
tion, that there is any such residue of the estate, he shall order it to be 
partitioned and distributed, 
At
re,rular 
an.er
to 
exhibit. 
§ 
Art.
Of 
506. Thia and the next aect1on sho'lf, that when " sucoeaston has once been 11dmlnta~red and closed, the
eft'ecta are, by operation of law, restored to the helre, Flek v. Norvel, 9 Tex. 1 i. The admlnistrntor or erecmt.or
should retain In hie hands 11. euftlcfont amount to pav tho debts which had been establiahed, or may be f'at&b. 
Jlsbed by suit. :Montgomery v. Culton, 18 Tex. 74~ but where tho hoIr takes posscsslon of the whole estate. 
hts obligation extends aa well to d1ibta allowed and approved liy tho executor, as to those which have not been
reeogntzed as debts of the succeselon, Id.; Montgomery v. Jonl'II, lS Tei:. 1~2. 
§ 1349. (1191) rss] No claim for money against his testator or in­
testate shall be allowecfby an executor or administrator, nor shall any suit
be instituted against him on any such claim, after an order for partition and
distribution bas been made, as provided for in the previous section of this
act; but the holder of any such claim, not barred by the laws of limitation,
shall have bis action thereon against the heirs, devisees, or legatees of the
estate; '!jut they shall not be bound beyond the value of the property they
may receive in such partition and distribution. • 
ro:
SOT. He may be held llablfl to the flXteut of bis dt1trlb11tlve shnro, not barred, An11ly v. Baker, 14 Tex. 610. 
The Bpanh,b and common law rule, u to exeeutors th ~ tort, q1l11ted. Id. Our system complete; anrl there 
la no executor d• ,on tori. Id. 
§ 1350. {1198) [89] When all the debts known to exist of every kind 
against the estate of a deceased person, have been paid, or when they have
been paid so far as the assets of the estate in the hands of the executor or
administrator will permit, the executor or administrator of such estate may
present his account to the court, verified by affidavit, for settlement; or,
the chief justice shall cause him to be cited to present Emch account, either
of his own motion, or on the complaint of any person interested in the estate.
Upon the presentation of such account, it shall be the duty of the chief
justice, either in term time or in vacation, to order at least twenty days' 
notice to be given by publication in a newspaper, if there be one printed in 
the county, if not, then by posting such notice at the court house, and at 
two other public places in the county, for at least twenty days: such notice
shall state the presentation of said account, the term of the court when it 
will be acted on, and shall require all persons interested, to appear and con­
test said account if they see proper. The chief justice may order such other
notice to be given as he shall deem expedient. At the term of the court
named in such notice, or at some subsequent term to which the same may be
continued, upon proof being made that notice has been given in the manner 
required by this act and the order of the chief justice, it shall be his duty,
~r examining said account with all the exceptions thereto, and hearing the 
evidence that may be offered in support of, or against, said account and ex­
ceptions, to re-state said account if necessary, and to audit and settle the
same; and upon the settlement of said account, if there is none of the estate
remaining in the hands of the executor or administrator, he shall be discharged from his trust by an order of the chief justice ; but if there is any 
of the estate remaining in the hands of the executor or administrator, and the
heirs, devisees, or legatees of the estate, or their assignees, or either or any of
them are present or represented in court, it shall be the duty of the chief
justice to order a partition and distribution of the estate to be made among
them, upon satisfactory proof being made 1!hat they are entitled to re- 
ceive it. · 
508. It, after the order of discharge, the administrator continue to act as such. Md the court so to re- 
lze. him, it will be presumed that the order of revocation has been dlschar1red-n11rl the admlnl&trator cannot
say hill own act.II. (Townsend v. Munger, 9 Tex. 800; Poor v. Boyce, 12 Tex. 4t0.) Bayne v, OIIJT{>tt, 11 
• ~. Where a proceeding was originally commenced to amend the Inventory, and a dc•clslon agnlnst tt In
the county court, from which the contestant appe.aled to the district court, where the nppl'al was dtsmissed, fr1>m
which there was no appeal to the supreme court: afterwnrds the oounty eouee approved the odmlnlstrntor'11 final
account, and ordered a partition: from these orders the contestant appealed to the district court, where these
orders were afflrmt>d, and the county court obeyed the mandate: nearly a year afterwlll"dll, the contestant prose­
cuted a writ of error to the supreme court: upon motion, and showing cause, the writ or error wa.e dtsmlssed,
as coming too late. McMillan v. Kelch, 16 Tei:. lM. The administrator should have vouchers, Davenport v.
Lawrence, 19 Tex, 819. It Is error to make a decree or final settlement, when the records or the court l!lboW 
lbat the eatate had not been eettlecl, and waa not In a condillon to be settled. Nf'lll v. Hodge, ~ Tex. 499. Under
the civil code ot Louill&Jlla it did not follow that the admlnlatratlon was closed at the end of the yelU'. It the
estate waa not ln fact edmlnlstered, there mnst, or neeeesity, have been a prolongation. or administration ,u 
boma non. Bartlett v. Cocke, 11S Tex. 416. The act or 18'0, upou the same aubjC"ct, was as Collowa :- 
A.BT. {1026.) (32] The term for the administration of the succession is fixed at one year
from the day of appointment of the administrator, or the granting letters testamentary, but
the probate court may extend the time, on good causes shown ; and nothing in this net shall
prevent an executor or administrator, when the estate is not indebted,-or only to a small 
extent,-from settling with the heirs, devisees, and legatees, and delivering up the estate to
them before the end of twelve months. And should the said executor or administrator fail to
render his account to thecourt of probate, ator before the end of the first term of the probate court,
after the expiration of twelve months from the grant of letters testamentary or of administration,
or should he fail to pay the creditors according to the order of the court of probate made in
relation thereto, within ten days atler granting said order, then execution may issue from the 
probate court, in the name pf the creditors whom he has failed to pay, against the property
or said executor or administrator, and his or,hor securities, which shall be sold, after the usual
advertisements, for what it will bring in cash. 
Tbt1 act did not prennt the extension of the adminlatmtton. Bartlett v. Cocke, 15 Tex. 478. Ir there waa 
an order of sale, a sale and pnrcbaae money, the admln!l1trator'1 deed w111 not nece•l!arY to the defense of the
pnrchaser of the hind. Id. (Cltea lffller v . .Alexander, 8 Tex. 86.,44..) .And If the probate conrt recognized the 
ileed, the prellUlDpUona are In favor of the continuance of the admlnlstratton. Bartlett v. Cooke. 16 Tex. 478.
The cue ot Miller v. Alexander, 8 Tex. 86- related to a aher1Jf'a deed. The Loulalana law of aucceaslolUI of 
ftallllt Ntalea, was adopted by the following ordlnance :- 
.ur OB.DINANOE AND DECREE J'OB OPENING THB SEVERAL COURTS 01' JUSTICE, .APPOJNTING
OLBRXB, PBOSEOUTING AT'l'ORNBYS, .illD DBFINING THEIR DUTIES, ETO. . 
§ (983.) ra] All proceedings relative to successions, matters of probate, et catera, shall
be regulated and governed agreeably to the principles and laws in similar cases in the state
of Louisiana: Provided, that no judge shall act as administrator; but in all cases of intestacy,
the next of kin, and other principles of the common law, shall prevail in the appointment of ud­ 
ministrators and guardians. And the judges shall proceed to complete all unfinished business 
which remains on file or of record, of their predecessors, under tho laws of Coahulla and Texas,
including all appeals which have been taken from their respective municipalities to the supreme
court, the records of which shall be returned to the courts of their respective municipalities, and 
trials thereon be had <k noro: Provided, that in all cases where new municipalities have been
cr~ated, taken from one or more municipalities, it shall be the duty of the clerk of tho court of 
the old municipality to transmit all original papers, documents, and transcripts of proceedings 
had in each case or suit, and all original papers and proceedings relative to successions,
testamentary business of every kind, and all unfinished business and proceedings whatever,
belonging to or connected with the citizens of the new municipality, to the clerk of the court of
the said municipality, to be regulated by the rules of pmctice in suits, as heretofore existed tn 
tho country. 
This ordinance only contzola the prooeedlnga In the probate court, not In the district oonrt. Gortnrto v.
C&ntu, 7 Tex. 86.. The rights or the hetra were determined under the lnwa of Spain and Mexico. Id. 46. Thtd
ordinance quoted tn Murphy T. Menard, a TeL 64. The 82d sectton of the act or lSiO, ju11t quoted, cited. Id.
Thie statute Imposes no limit to the term to be given; It only authorizes the court to extend the term. Id. 68. 
By the ctvil code of Louisiana (In force prior to the act or 1886), the succession was required to be closed within
19 months; but it contd be extended by application to the court, and sufficient cause shown, from yeo.r to year,
not exceeding ftvu yelll'L (Florea v. How th, 6 Tex. 881.) Id. 68. By art. 1199 of the SRme code, "the Judge who
prolongs the Mlmlnlatratton of a Tal'.Ant sucee1111lon, or or absent heirs, Is bound every yenr of the prolongation
thua Jranted, to exact from t.he curator a renewal of the eecurity which he baa given for t.he fidelity of hla 
admtnlatration." Id. The law of 1886 make~ no provtalon for the renewal of security upon prolongation. Id. 
509 • .But the law of 18" provided aa follows:AN A.OT TO DEl'INE A.ND l'IX TllB PRACTIOB OJ' PROBATE OOURTB IN OERTAJN OA.8KS. 
ABT. (1069.) [I] When further time, atler the erpiration of one year, is granted to any ad­
ministrator, or executor, to settle the estate of his testator, or intestate, such executor, or ad­
ministrator, shall not be reqµired to execute a new bond for the faithful performance of bis
duties, but the original bona of such executor, or administrator, shall be deemed and held as
euffl<,ient, and binding, until the final settlement of the estate, except in cases where new
security is specially required by the existing probate laws. 
The act otl840 only repeals all laWB, and parts of laws, conflicting with the act. Murphy v. Menard, 115
Tex. 6'. It dtd not dla~nae with t.he new bond, upon prolongation. This was not done untll this act or lSU.
Id. M. The legislature did not., and could not, extend the liability or the sccurttlee, Id. They were only bound for
the period or one year. (Florea v. Howth, l5 TeL 881.) Id. M. The admlnletratlon, under the laws or Loulalana,
having closed by operation of law, In 1848., the administrator dtJ boni,, non. appointed In lS.~l. could not mnlntaln 
an action antnst his predeceseor, (Fisk v. Norvel, 9 Tex. 18; Boyle v, Forbes, 9 Tex. 81}; Chandler v. Hudson, 11
Tex. 82.) ra, 67. The ordinance (bel'orequoted) was in force on the 8th day of March. 1836. We must. thereforee,
look to the laws of Louisiana, to determine the l'ft'ect of an ndrnlnlstrutor's bond of that date. ],'lores v. Howth,
6 Tex. 881 to 883. It results, from these citations, that the ndmlnlstmtlon wM irrontEtd for one year, and the
eecurlUee could only be bound tor defalcations oft.he adtnlnlstrator for that period. Id. 882. Ir the udmlnlstra­
tor railed lo make settlements with tho court, or to give new securlty, the socurttles would be liable for all
damages ror such unfaithful performance or bis duty. (R••son v, Young. 7 Mori. N. ~- 294; Johnson v. Browh,
8 Mart. N. S. 602.) Id. 888. Tho ordinance of the consultatlon, merely introduced the lnw or procedure In tho
aettlement or successions; but tt had no reference to suits for the recovery of property which had once belonged 
to the estate. Kegans v. Allcorn, 9 Tex. 88. These laws of Louisiana contlnned In force until superseded by
t.hil act of the Texas congress or Fl'bMlarY Mb. 18-W. Boyle v. Forbes, 9 Tex. 40. Florea v. Howth, 0 Tex. 8'lD,
affirmed. Id. After the removal of the Ineumbrances, the heirs are entitled to the balance not absorbed by the
debt8. Id. 41. l'tfn.rphy v. Menn.rd, 14 Tex. 62, nfilrmed; Portis v. Cummings, 14 Tex. 140. The 6:IIDO rule
applied aa to the settlement of estatee, Id. The prima facie presumption ts, that the admlmstrntton hnd
ceruied, and if so, the party's remedy wa11 In the district court. (ln;r~m v. Maynard. 6 Tex. t:30.) Id. The act of
1S41>, In regard to udmtnlstrsttone, took elfect on the 16th of March of that year. From that time It became the 
law of procedure, as well In respect to estates, then In the progress of ndmtntstratlon, ns to those of which the
admlntstratlon WM subsequently opened. Harrtson v. Knlfht, 7 Tex. 154. As a itenPrnl rule, grants or admlnls­ 
tratlon fourteen yt>ani after the death of the Intestate, wouk be vold ; bnt efrenmstances may exist which woul<f 
render the grant valid, as the reeent maturity or the debt, Cochran v. Thompson, 18 Tex. Ma Where nn 
admintetratlun hnd been granted In Naeogdoebe11 oounty, In 1888, and no debt/I proved, and another granted In 
1862, In .Anderson county, tbe latter waa held to be a nullity. Wardrup v. Jones, 28 Tex. 494. An administra­ 
tor, who was appointed when the laws of Lonlslnna relating to ancesaluns Wl're ln force In this country, could not
eua&aln an action tn his ropreaentative capacity, commenced after the expiration or a year Crom his appointment,
w'tthont showing a oontlnuance of the administration by the probate court. Boyle v. }'orbea, 9 Tex. 86. If an 
admlniatratton baa been closed, the presumptton la, that all the debts have been paid otl'. Id. When a euceesslou
baa once been admlntatered and closed, the eff'ecta are, by operation of law, restored to the hel.rll: they have the 
tall oWDershlp, with all the rlghta of control, dlepor,ltlon, and aetiona&tor lta reoovery and poeseeston, and tho
probate court bu no authority to re-open the 11nl,ceulon. Fisk v. Norvel, 9 Tex. 14.. It may be proved col­
laterally, that the probato court had no jurtadictton-ror example, tbAt t.he pe~n wna not dead, or Uilt the
e.tate had been l't\lly administered and r.losed; but not that the court acted lrregnlarly or erroneouflly upon a
SBb,Ject-matter properly within lta oognlll\llce. Id. .And see these doctrines fuller llluatmted In Blair v. Cls­
ncroa, 10 Tex. 3'. Where an admlnlatrattun had been closed, and the property divided, nnd the . professe4
ownen petitioned for partition of certain nndisposed-or land claiims; bnt It was, In fact, a petition for the Mle of
them; and the court a1,polnted a commleeloner to sell, who eold : Held, that the administrator alone could
M'II for Che purposes or parUtlo~ and that the whole proceeding was ono of' which the court bad no Jmllcllll eoi­ 
llhanca. Koee v. Newman, 26 TeL 18'. 
§ 1351. (1199) (90] Upon the settlement of the account of any ex­
ecutor or administrator, as provided for in the preceding section, if the heirs,
devisees, or legatees of the estate, or their assignees, or either or any of them
do not appear, or are not represented in the court, and there are any funds of
such estate remaining in the hands of the executor or administrator, it shall
be the duty of the chief justice to order the same to be paid over to the
treasurer of the state ; and if there shall be any property of the estate that
bas not been sold, or any debts due the estate that may be collected, it shall
be the duty of the chief justice to order such property to be sold on a credit
of twelve months, and such debts to be collected; and at the first term of
the court, after the expiration of twelve months after such sale, and every six
months thereafter, while the estate remains under the control of such executor
or administrator, it shall be bis duty to render to the court a full exhibit of
the condition of such estate, verified by affidavit. And whenever there shall
be any funds of the estate in the hands of the executor or administrator, it 
shall be the duty of the chief justice to order \he same to be paid to the
treasurer of the state : Provided, however, th~t while such estate, or an1
portion thereof, remains under the control of the executor or administrator,
the heirs, devisees, or legatees, or their assignees, or either or any of them, may
obtain from the chief justice, at a regular term of the court, an order to have
the same partitioned and distributed nmong them according to their respet>
tive interests in the same, upon causing the executor or administrator to" be 
cited, and making satisfactory proof to the conrt of their right to the same ;
and whenever such estate shall have been so partitioned and distributed, and
delivered over to the persons entitled thereto, or when the debts due such
estate have been collected, so far as there is a reasonable prospect of collect­
ing them, and the proceeds paid over to the treasurer of the state, as herein
required, such executor or administrator shall be finally discharged from his
trust, by an order of the chief justice, entered at some regular term . 
.ART. 1352. {1200) (91] Wh"never an order shall be made by the chief
justice for an executor or administrator to pay over any funds to the treasurer
of the state, under the provisions of this act, rt shall be the duty of the clerk of 
the court in which such order may be made, to transmit to said treasurer, by 
mail, a certified copy of such order within one month after said order shall
have been made. 1Yhenever the clerk mails such copy, he shall take from
the postmaster with whom it is mailed, a certificate stating thai such certified
copy was mailed in his office, directed to the treasurer of the state, at the
seat of government of this state, and the date when it was mailed, which cer­
tificate shall be recorded in 1:he minutes of the court; and any clerk who
shall neglect to transmit a certified copy of such order within the time
prescribed, and to take such certificate and have it so recorded, shall be liable
to a penalty of one hundred dollars, to be recovered by au action in the name
of the state, before any justice of the peace of the county, on the information
of any citizen of the county; one-half of which penalty shall be paid to the 
informer, and the other half to the state.
§ 1353. {1201) (92] ,vhenever any executor or administrator sball 
pay over to the treasurer of the state any funds of the estate he represents,
under the provisions of this act, he may take from such treasurer a receipt.
for such payment, with his official seal attached, and file the same, and have
it recorded on the minutes of the court by which such funds were ordered to
be paid ; and a copy of such record shall be evidence of such payment. 
§ 1354. {1202) r93] Whenever any funds of an estate shall have been
paid to the treasurer of' the state, under the provisions of this act, any heir, 
devisee, or legatee of such estate, or their assignees, or either or any of them,
may recover the portion of such funds to which he or she would have been
entitled, if the same had not been so paid to the treasurer. Such recovery
may be had in a suit ngainst said treasurer, before any court of competent
jurisdiction in the county where the letters testamentary or of administration
were granted ; but in any suc}l suit the plaintifff shall be liable for all costs of
court; and in all cases where any funds belonging to the estate of a deceased
person have heretofore been paid into the treasury of the state; or when any
title papers belonging to any such estate have been deposited with the comp­
troller, such funds or title papers may be recovered in like manner by the
person or persons who would have been entitled thereto, if the same had not 
been so paid over or deposited. 
Airr. 1355. {1203) (94] Whenever any executor or administrator shall
fail to pay to the treasurer of the state any fonds of the estate he represents,
that he has been ordered by the chief justice so to pay, within three months
after snob order has been made, such executor or administrator shall be liable 
to pay out of his own estate to the state treasurer, damages thereon at the
rate of five per cent. per month, for each month he may neglect to make such
payment, after the three months from such order. The treasurer of the state
shall have the ri~ht, in the name of the state, to apply to the·chief justice of
the court in which such order was made, to enforce the payment of such
funds and damages, if any have accrued; and it shall be the duty of the chief 
justice to enforce the payment, in like manner as other orders of payment are
enforced by him; or the said treasurer shall have the right to institute suit,
m the name of the state, against, such executor or administrator and the sure­
ties on his bond, for the recovery of the funds so ordered to be paid, nnd
damages, if any have accrued; which suit may be instituted in any court of
oonrpetent jurisdiction, in the county where the letters testamentary or of
admmistration were granted. 
§ 1356. (1204) [95] In all cases where an order shall have been made
by any chief justice under the provisions of this act, for an executor or
administrator to pay over money to any person other than the treasurer of 
the state, and such executor or administrator shall neglect to make such
payment when it is demanded by the person entitled thereto, his agent or
attorney, such executor or administrator shall be liable to pay out of his own
estate, to the person in whose favor such order of payment was made,
damages upon the amount he shall so neglect to pay, at the rate of ten per
cent. per month, for each and every month he shall so neglect to make such
payment after the same was so demanded; such damages to be recovered by
suit, before any court having competent jurisdiction. 
§ 1357. (1205) [96] All applications for the partition and distribution
of an estate under the provisions of this act, shall be in writing, and shall be
filed with the clerk of the court to which the application is made. Upon the
filing of any such application, it shall be the duty of the clerk to issue a cita­
tion, returnable to some regular term of the court, which citation shall state
the name of the person whose estate is sought to be partitioned and dis­
tributed, the term of the court to which such citation is returnable, and
shall require all persons interested in the estate, to appear and show cause
why such partition and distribution should not be made; such citation shall
be personally served by leaving a copy thereof with each person entitled to a
share of the estate, who is known and is a resident of this state ; and if there
be any persons so entitled who are not known, or who are not residents of
this state, such citation shall be published for at least four successive weeks
in some newspaper printed in the county, if there be one; if not, then it
shall be published in like manner in one of the nearest newspapers published
in the state; a copy of such publication, and the affidavit of the publisher or
printer attached thereto, stating that it was so published, shall be evidence 
of the publication. 
510. The act or 6th February, 1840, ••regulating the duties or probate courts ·an1l the settlement or eueeesliona," vari~s so little on the subject or partition, that, arter tho ecrlos of 1leclslona eatabl!Ahlnic that, u to eatatea,
the county courts have general jurisdiction, the sections need not be copied here. They will be round vol. 4, p. 
llO, and Bartley's Digest, arts. 1081 to 1086, p. 884 st ,sq.-Eo. 
The county court had jurisdiction or partitions, under tho Sith section or tho act of 1$40. Fishback v.
Young. 19 Tex. 620. The ftlct of filing and receiving the commissioner's report, was considered equivalent to
approval. Tho usual form WM, "filud and ndmltted to record." Id. 621. In the partition of an estate, where property
had been sold for the melntenaace or the widow and a part of the children, they sboul<l be chanred with the money
and the Interest, not tho value at the time of the sale, Lee v. Smith, 18 Tex. 146. Although the petition for
partition does not atate tho name of a party, yet If the eubsequent proceedings do, and the decree 11how11 thnt
such party was represented, and consented to tho decree, the recitals In the decree will be taken as true unttl the 
oontrary be made to appear. Millican v, Mllllcan, ll4 Tex. 489. . 
ABT. 1358. {1206) [97] .At the return term of any such citation as is pro­
vided for in the preceding section, or at some succeeding term to which the
application may be continued by the court, if it shall appear that such citation
has been served and published as required by law, the court shall proceed to 
ascertain who are the persons, by law, entitled to partition and distribution,
and their respective shares; and if there are any persons so entitled, who are
known, and are minors, and have no guardian in this state, or whose
guardians are also entitled to a portion of such estate, the court shall appoint
a guardian, ad litem, to represent them in the partition of the estate ; and if
there are any persons so entitled, who are not known, or not residents of this
state, and no person appears who is authorized to represent them, the court 
shall appoint an attorney to represent them in the partition of the estate ;
after which, the court shall proceed to ascertain whether advancements have
been made to any of the persons so entitled-their nature and value-and
require the same to be placed in hotchpotch; as reguired by the law govern­
ing descents and distribution ; and also to ascertain what estate is liable to
partition and distribution ; the court shall then enter a decree, which shall
state the name and residence, if known, of each person entitled to a share of
the estate-specifying those who are known to be minors-the name of their
guardian or guardians ad litem-the name of the attorney appointed to 
represent those who are unknown, or are not residents of this state; the
decree shall also state the proportional part of the estate to which each is
entitled; and shall contain a full description of all the estate to be distributed ;
if the estate to be distributed shall consist only of money, or debts due the
estate, or both, the court shall fix the amount to which each is entitled, and
order the payment and delivery thereof by the executor or administrator ;
but if the estate do not consist entirely of money or debts due the estate, or
both, the court shall appoint three or more discreet persons as commissioners
to make s partition and distribution of the estate, and shall order a writ of
partition to issue, commanding them to proceed forthwith to makesuch par-.
tition and distribution, in accordance with the decree of the court, a copy of
which shall accompany such writ ; and, also, commanding them to make due
return of said writ-with their proceedings under it-at some term of the
conrt to be named in the writ. 
§ 1859. (1207) [98] Itsbnll be the duty of the commissioners of par­
tition under this act, to make a fair, just, and impartial partition and distri­
bution of the estate in the following order :-1st. Of the land or other real
estate, by allotment to each distributee of a part in each parcel, or of parts in
one or more parcels, or of one or more parcels either with or without the
addition of a part or parts of other parcels, as shall be most for the interest
of the distributees : Provided, the said real estate is caeable of being so
divided without manifest injury to all or any of the distributees. And the
said commissioners shall have power, if they think it necessary, to call to their
aid one or more well qualified surveyors to run the lines of any lands :md also
divisional lines thereof. If the real estate is not capable of a fair, just, and
equal division, in kind, but may be made so, by allotting to one or more of
the dlstributees a proportion of money or negroes, or other personal property,
to supply the deficiency or deficiencies, the commissioners shall have power
to make, as near as may be, an equal division of the real estate, and supply
the deficiency of any share or shares from the money, negroes, or other
property. The commissioners shall proceed to make a like division in kind,
as near as may be, of the negroes-supplying the deficiency of any share or
shares from the money or other property ; and also a like division of the
money and other personal property, and shall determine by lot, among equal
ebares, to whom each particular share shall belong. 
§ 1360. (1208) [99] When, in the opinion of the commissioners, the
whole, or any portion of any estate, is not capable of a fair and equal di vision
among the distributees, the said commissioners shall make a special return 
of such property to the court, with the value thereof duly appraised by them.
Upon such return being made to the court, any one or more of the dis­ 
tributees, at a regular term of the court, by the payment to the executor or­
administrator of the appraised value of the property so returned as incapable
of division ; or on the execution of his or their obligations, with one or more
good and sufficient sureties, in favor of each of the other distribntees, for their
share of the appraised value of such property, payable at such time, not,
exceeding twelve months from the date thereof, as the court may designate :
Provided, the court may think it, for the interest of the distributees to allow
a credit; shall have the right to take the said property. Should any one or
more of the distributees take the said property as aforesaid, it shall be the
duty of the court to enter a decree stating the facts ; and on the entry of
such decree the property shall vest as fully and absolutely in the person or
persons taking the same as the deceased was vested therewith : Provided,
nevertheless, that when obligations are executed as aforesaid, a. lieu shall
exist U{>On such property by operation oflaw, to secure the payment of such
obligations: Provided, also, that if any of the distributees shall file in the
court, his exception to the appralsement of the commissioners, before any of 
the distributees shall have so taken such property, a new appraisement
of said property shall be made by order of the court. If no distributee take 
the said property as aforesaid, the court shall order the sale of said,roperty,
either for cash, or on a credit, as may be most for the interest o the die­
tributees ; and at such sale, if any distributee shall bid off any of said
property, be shall be required to pay or secure, as the case may be, only
such amount of his bid as may exceed the amount of his share of such
property ; and the proceeds of sale, when collected, shall be distributed by
the court among those entitled thereto. 
511. The 411!t section orthe act of 1840 required many of tho duties of the eommlsetonera to be performed
by the clerk. The authority conferred upon the clerk to make t1ale11, for pnrposee or partition of esta~ and 
to collect the proceeds thereof; wu an official trust, and devolved on hla successor in office. Robaon v. watt.a,
11 Te1. 7M. Such a trustee can only collect 1n money, not in hie own eceounts, Id. 7GS. . 
AnT. 1361. (1209) [1001 Said commissioners, having divided the whole
or any part of the estate, sliall make to the court a report in writing, sub­
scribed and sworn to by them, containing a statement of the property
divided by them ; and also a particular description of the property allotted 
to each distributee, and its value. And if it be real estate that has been
divided, said report shall contain a general plat of such land, with the
divisional lines plainly set down, and the number of acres in each share.
Upon the return of such report, it shall be the d ut1, of the court, at some
regular term, to examine said report carefully ; and if it be merely informal,
to cause said informality to be corrected : and if such division shall appear
to have been fairly made according to law, and no valid exceptions are taken
to it, the court shall approve it, and order it to be recorded ; but if said
division shall not appear to have been so made, or any valid exceptions are
taken to it, the court shall set aside said report and division, and order
a new partition to be made. 
512. A. urlwrarl wlll lie to thl1 part!Uon at any time within two years. And although the wife may
haYe MlqufeSC('d In the "1strlbutlon or her eeparato. orcommanlty property, ehe Is not estopped from asserting
her right by urUorari. (Dnchose of Kingston's Case, 2 Smith's Leading Casee.) Dunham v. Chatham. 21 Tex. 
k8. The property may bo re-dlatrtbnted111coordlng to the vested rights or the ~ruea; not to affect any third
rights which may have grown up before tne au-pwU<kru. Id. 
§ 1362. (1210) [101] When any portion of' the estate to be partitioned
lies in a distant county, and cannot be fairl1 partitioned without a view
thereof, and it is inconvenient for the commissioners to go and examine such
property, they may report such facts to the chief justice in writing; where­
upon he may at some regular term of. the court, if satisfied that the said
property cannot be conveniently divided, or that its sale would be more ad­ 
vantageous to the distributees, order a sale thereof for cash, or on a credit
of not more than twelve months, at his discretion: and when the proceeds
of such sale shall have been collected, they shall be distributed, by him,
among those entitled thereto; but if no such proof be made, three or more
commissioners may be appointed in each county where any portion of the
estate so reported is situated-and the same proceeding shall be bad thereon,
as is provided in this act for commissioners to make partition. 
§ 1363. (1211) [102] When any husband or wife shall die leaving
any common property, the survivor may at any time, after letters testamen­ 
tary or of administration have been granted, and an inventory of the estate
of the deceased bas been returned, make application to the court from which
such letters were granted, for a partition of such common property ; and if
he or she shall execute and deliver to said chief justice an obligation, with
good and sufficient sureties, payable to, and approved by said chief justice,
for an amount equal to the value of hia or her interest in such common
property, conditioned for the payment of one-half of all debts existing against
such common property ; then the chief justice shall proceed to make a partition of said common property into two equal moieties-one to be delivered
to the survivor, and the other to the executor or administrator of the de­
ceased ; and all the provisions of this act respecting the partition and distri­
bution of estates, shall apply to any partition made under the provisions of
this section, so far as the same may be applicable ; and whenever such par­
tition may be made, a lien shall exist upon the portion of such survivor, to
secure the payment of the obligation he may have given as aforesaid ; and
until a partition shall be applied for as herein provided, the executor or ad­
ministrator of the deceased shall have the right, and it shall be his duty, 
to recover possession of all of such common property, and hold the same in 
trust, to be administered for the benefit of t~e creditors and others entitled
thereto under the provisions of this act. Aft.er such partition, any creditor
of said common propPt-ty may sue in his own name on such obligation, and
shall have judgment thereon fur the one-half of such debt as he may estab­
lish ; and for the other half he shall be entitled to be paid by the executor 
or administrator of the deceased. 
o 18. Tho provlslcns or th1!1 eeerlon mnst be construed with re(t>rence to existing law!I on the 1mbject
of exemptions. and it cannot aff't>ct the homestesd znaranteed by the constitution. Wood T. Wbeeler, 1 Tex. it. 
The exemptlons can never be the subject of 111111ault by creditors, Id. 
§ 1364. (1212) [1031 In all cases when commissioners ~ make
petition are appointed under this net, the report of any three of themshall 
be sufficient. All such commissioners shall receive two dollars each, for
every day they may be engaged, and all their reasonable expenses shall be
paid'"'them. 
§ 1365. {1213) [104] In any case where the chief justice shall all.point
a guardian ad litem for minors, or any attorney to represent the persons absent
from the state, or unknown, under the provisions of this act,-if such guardian
ad litem, or attorney, shall neglect to attend to the duties of such appointment,
the chief justice shall appoint others in their places, by an order entered on
the minutes of the court ; and such guardian ad liteni and attorneys shall be
allowed by the chief justice a reasonable compensation for their services,
which shall be paid out of the estate of the person they represent, and the
chief justice may order execution to issue for the same. 
§ 1366. (1214) [105] All expenses incurred in the partition of estates,
shall be paid by the parties interested in the partition-each party paying
in proportion to the .share he may receive. The portion of the estate allotted
to each distributes shall be liable for his or her portion of the expenses; and
if not paid, the court shall have power to order execution therefore in the
names of the persons entitltd thereto. 
§ 1367. (1215) [106 J Any person or persons having a joint interest
with the estate of a decedent in any property, real or personal, may make
application to the county court from which letters testamentary or of ad­
ministration have been granted on said estate, to have a partition thereof­
whereupon the court shall proceed to make a partition of said property be­
tween the applicant or applicants and the estate of the deceased; and all the
rules and regulations contained herein, in relation to the partition and distri­
bution of estates, shall govern partitions under this section, so far as the 
same may be applicable. 
514. This jnr1sdlcUon 111 not excluatn, but only concurrent with that of the district court. Ellis ,..
Rhone, 11 Tex. 182 • 
AnT. 1368. {1216) [107] When the report of any commissioners to make
partition shall have been approved and ordered to be recorded, the court
shall or<ler the executor or administrator to deliver to the distributees their
respective shares of the estate on demand-including all the title-deeds and
papers belonging to the same, If any distributee Le a minor, his share shall
be delivered to bis guardian. If any minor distributee, resident of the state
of Texas, shall have no guardian, the executor or administrator shall retain
his share until a guardian shall be appointed, an.I he shall be allowed by the
court rensonable compensation for taking care of the same. If any executor
or administrator shall neglect to deliver to the rcr:,;on entitled thereto, his
agent or attorney, when demanded, any portion o an estate so ordered to be
delivered, such executor or administrator shall be liable to pay out of his own
estate to the person so entitled, damages 011 the amount of Lis share, at the
rate of ten per cent. per month, fur each and every month he shall so neglect
to delifer such share, after such demand-which damages may be recovered
by suit, before any court of competent jurisdiction. 
§ 1369. (1217) [108] If any person entitled to a portion of an estate
shall not demand the same from the executor or ndmiuistrutor, within six
months after the report of the commissioners of partition has been approved
and ordered to be recorded, the chief justice shall order so much of such
portion as may be in money to be paid to the treasurer of the state; and
such portion as may be in other property, the chief justice shall order the
executor or administrator to sell on such terms as he may think best; and
when the proceeds of such sale are collected, he shall order the same to he 
paid to the treasurer of the state-in all. such cases allowing to tbe executor
or admimstrator, reasonnble compensation for his services. · 
§ 13'70. (1218) [109) Whenever any executor or administrator shall
file in the court receipts showing that he has disposed of nny portion of the
estate under the provisions of this act, the court shall order the same to be
recorded; and whenever he shall have so filed receipts, showing that all of
the estate has been disposed of b7 him under the provisions of this act, he
shall be finally discharged from his trust by the chief justice, 
[ AN A.CT TO AllEND THE 11 OTB SECTION OF AN A.CT ENTITLED " AN A.CT TO
REGULATE PROCEEDINGS IN THE COUNTY COURT PERTAINl~G TO THE 
. ESTATES OF DECEASED PERSONS." PASSED MARCH 20TH, 1848. 
ABT. 1371. [I] From [and] after the pnssage of this act, the llOth section
of the above recited net shall read as follows:- 
Any person capable of making a will, may so provide by his or her will, 
that no other action shall be had in the county court in relation to the settle­
ment of his or her estate, than the probating and registration of his or her 
will, and the return of an inventory of the estate; and in all such cases, any
person having a debt or claim against said estate, may enforce the payment
of the same, by suit against the executor of said will; and, when judgment
is recovered against such executor, the execution shall run against the estate
of such testator in the hands of such executor: Provided, that no such
executor shall be required to plead to any suit brought against him for
money, until the expiration of twelve months from the date of the probate of 
such will. But in cases where no bond and security has been required of
such executor, at the time of the probate of such will, any person having a
debt [ claim ,,r demand, to which oath has been made] agsmst said estate, or
any person having an interest therein, whether in person or as representative
of another, may by complaint in writing, filed in the court where such will 
was probated, cause such executor to be cited to appear before such court, at
some regular term, and on making it appear to the satisfaction of said court,
that such executor is wasting said estate [ or that such executor is insolvent
or in failing circumstances], and that thereby said creditor will probably
lose his debt, or such other person bis or her interest in the estate, he 
may have an order of said court ordering such executor to give bond, with
two or more good and sufficient sureties, for an amount equal to double the
foll value of such estate, to be approved by, and payable to the [ chief justioe]
of the county; conditioned, that said executor will well and truly administer
such estate, and that be will not waste or mismanage ( or misapply] the same;
which bond may be recovered upon as other bonds given by executors and
administrators; and should such executor fail to give such bond, within ten
days after the order requiring him so to do, then \t shall be the duty of such 
[ chief justice] to remove him from the administration of such estate, and ap·
point some competent person in his stead, whose duty it shall be to adminis­
ter said estate according to the terms of such will ; and who, before he en­
ters upon the administration of said estate, shall be required to gi~ bond,
with two or more good and sufficient sureties, in double the amount of the
value of said estate ; conditioned, payable, and recoverable upon as the bond
required of such executor.] 
& 15. The repealed sectloo read as follows:§ (J 219.) (110) Any person capable of making a will, may so provide by his will, that 
no other action shall be had in the county court, in relation to the settlement of his estate, than
the probate and registration of his will, and the return of an inventory of the estate; but in nll
such cases, any person haviug a debt against said estate may, by complaint in writing, filed in
the court where such will was proved, cause all tho persons entitled to nny portion of such 
eatate under the wll, or as heirs at law, to be cited to appear before such court at some regular 
term, and execute an obligation, with two or more good and sufficient sureties, for an amount
equal to the full value of such estate to be ascertained by the inventory; such obligation to be 
payable to tho chief justice, and conditioned that tho persons who execute the oblient ion shall 
pay all debts that may be established against such estate, in the manner herein provi.ied ; nnd 
on the return of such citations served, unless such persons so entitled to any portiou of tho 
estate, or some of them, or some other persons tor them, shall execute such obligation to the 
satisfa~tion of the chief justice, such estate shall be sr-ttk-d under the direction or th« court, n~
other estates are required to be settled; but if !'11d1 oblignt ion shall l o executed, it slu.l! bo
•Bed znd recorded in said court, and 110 other action shall ho had in said court in relation to such 
estate. All cot-its of such procecdlngs nhall be p:iitl by the persons !$0 entitled to 811ch estate, 
according lo their respective interests in it. Every creditor of such estate shall have ~he right
to sue on such obligation, and shall be entitled to judgment thereon, for such debt as he may 
eatablieh againet the t.estator by a verdict o, the jury in such suit; or such credit.ors may haw
their action against those in possession of the estate. 
In the case or Hozne v. Sims (9 Tex. 646), this court held, thata creditor, under tbl1 seetton, could not main·
taln an action against the partle1 without ftrst makln,r complaint to the connty court, 80 tliot the betrs and 
legatees or the estate could be cited to come In and make their election, whether they woul,I l[lve the bond con­
templated by the statute, or permit the estate to be admtnlsn-rcd In the county court, as In ordinary caaea.
Shaw v. Elltson, 24 Tex. 199. The principle WM n>&ISCrtt'd In the ease of CaJTOII v. CI\ITolI. 20 Tex. 782. Id. And 
1166 Wood v. McMeane, 28 Tex. 4St>; Fulton v. Black, 21 'I'ex. 42~ The hc·i~ enn only hr called upon to make an
election by a crAditor. Hogue v. Sima, 9 Tex. MS. And those lnter .. ~te<I must 1i!o.ent, before the 1utmintstratiOD 
will be arn,11te,L (Hogue v, Sims, II Tl·X. t>!ti.) Henderson v, Van Hook. 26 1'e:r. Supp. 4118.. That It,
the holder of a debt. Runnel, v. Kownslsr, 27 Tex. 638. The complahit 111 not to be regarded 
technically u a 1uit. ltunnela "· Kownalar, 2'T Tez. 688. Bor need the altAtioo • nottoe oontaln
file reqllirem.enta of a wrU in the district court, Id. lkasonablt.o uurtalnty, u t.o the o~feet. 111 all t.bat
11 neceaeary. ld. And this may be attatned by a abort notice, accompanied by and 0011nected with a oopy of 
the complaint. Id. The regularlt7. and Cennalltlee of pleading and practice, In action, In the district court. are 
not required In the county court. (Langley v. Hams. 28 Te:r. l>M.) Id. Ir the will of the decedent 110 pro'1dea,
and the hel1"8 and eredttors so agree, the admlnletmttoo may be wlthdra'Wl"D from the control or the conn.
(Hoene v. Sims. 9 Tex. M6.) Id. Creditors, whose clatm1 have not been allowed, may be heard under thil 
1ectlon. Id. If there are no creditors, the betrs can adju11t their respective rlghu, without the control of the
chief justice. Hogue v. Sima, 9 Tex. MS. IC the bond had been glnn, It would ban removed the estate entlrelT 
from the control of the probate court; anct lt would have irtven the creditor a right to sue on that bond. an<! Jal1
juogment would have hf.en satlsfled by execution. Id. M[ After the bond ball been g1veni the oredltor m&J' 
sue upon It. or bring his suit against any person who may be in po11!e1111lon or the estate. d. The widow, ill
her claim to allowance under the 44tb and ~th sectlons or thl1 net (0. & W. arta. 762, 168).11 not a «ediklr
within the meaning of this sectton. Runnels v. Runnels. Galveston T. 21 Tex, Ml. Nor caa the buabancl,, 
under thia section, deprive her or her constltuttonw aud statutory allowance of the homestead, &c. Id. ID a 
suit In the dletrtct court eetLlng up her claim, she need not make sbe creditors parties. Id. Thil pro­ 
Yislon or the act mny become nugatory, If, upon a demand or aecurlty for the payment or the dobte or the
estate, it is declined by tho hetrs, But in no other way than under this section, can the county court ~C. other
control over the estate, while the executor contlnuee to exercise the trust. conferred by the will. Id. In snob 
cases, the dletrict court may fix the allowance. Id. The statute Intends to protect all the creditors of the 
estste allke. Shaw v. Ellison, 24 Tex. 200. And for this purpose the holder oC 11. proml"11ory note 1tanda
upon the eame footing as a Judgment credit.or. Runnel!! v. Kownal&r, Austln-0..IY. T. fl Tex. li88. The bond
mast be given in thr c11unty court. Id. Tho bond must Mi of an amount equal to the fn)I value of the eetate, 
to be ascertained by 1.he hvcntory. (Shaw v. Elllson, 24 Tex. 200.) Id. U the bond be ¢ven, the holder or a
claim Is not required t•1 present It to the executor for a11owance. Wood v. McMean11, 28 TeL 486. This 11 a
1recial trust, which c1n1,ot be transferred by the trustee (the executor named), nor delegated by the county
court. And fl the executor named fall to e:xorclae or accept the trust, ft is nt AD end ; and, ae in any other case
where there is a will, the county court must appotnt an admlntstrator with the will anne:red. (Bectlone 9, 2T, 
and llO.) Langley v. Harris, 2.'3 Tex. 669. When the executor named tn the will, fall1 or refuses to accept the
trust, that clause of the will falls, and ls Inoperative, the eame aa lf lt bad been omitted. Id. 
§ 1372. (1220} [lll] At any time after the return of the inventory
of the estate of a deceased person, any one entitled to a portion of said
estate, as heirs, devisee, or legatee, or bis or her guardian, if he or she be a
minor, may, by a complaint in writing, filed in the court where such inventory
has been returned, cause the executor or administrator of the estnte to be
cited to appear at some regular term of the court and render an exhibit, un­
der oath, of the condition of such estate; and on the return of such citation
served, the person so entitled to such estate, or any of them, or any other
persons for them, may execute and deliver to the chief justice, an obligation
payable to him, with two or more good and sufficient sureties, to be approved 
by the chief justice, for an amount at least equal to the appraised value of
the estate, as ascertained by the inventory, conditioned, that the persons who
execute such obligation shall pay all debts against the estate not paid, that
have been allowed by the executor or administrator, and approved by the
chief justice, or that have -been established by suit against the executor or
administrator, or that may be established against the estate by snit in the
manner herein provided, and mny pay to the executor or administrator any
balance that may be decreed to be due to him, on his exhibit, in obedience to 
said citation; whereupon such obligation shall be filed and recorded in said
court; and the court shall, on the application of any of the persons so en­
titled to any portion of the estate, cause a partition and distribution of such
estate to be made among the persons entitled thereto, in accordance with the
provisions of this act, respecting the partition and distribution of estates ; 
and a lien sh:111 exist on all of said estate in the hands of the distributees, to
secure the ultimate payment of the aforesaid obligation. Any creditor of
such estate, whose claim is yet unpaid, and has been allowed by the executor
or admini:..trator, previous to the filing of such obligation, and appro,ed
by the chief justice, or established by suit agai11st the executor or adminis­
trator, previous to the filing of such obligation, shall have the right to sne
on snch obligation in his own name, and sha.11 be entitled to judgmeut
thereon for the amount of his claim: or any 9ther creditor of such est.at~
whose claim is not barred by the. laws of limitation, shall have the right to 
sue on such obligation, and shall be entitled to judgment thereon, for such
debt as he may establish against the estate by a. verdict of the jury in .such
suit; or any of said creditors may sue the d1stributees, but no one of them
shall be liable beyond hi-, just provortion, according to the estate he may
have received in tho distribution. 
118. Upon • rece>TtTY under thf11 IW'Ctton, tho plalntfff' le entitled to an enouUon. u ID ordhwycuea.
Headley v. Good. 24 Tex. 234. The heir m11y apply ror bl11 share. at any time after the return or the Inventory i 
snd If not allowed, may 1111e In the district court. Howze v. Howze, 14 Tex. 2M. 
§ 1373. {1221) [112] When a person dies, leaving a lawful will, all 
of his estate devised or bequeathed by such will, shall vest immediately in
the devisees or legatees ; and all the estate of such person, not devised or
bequeathed, shall vest immediately in his heirs at law ; but all of such estate,
whether devised or bequeathed, or not, except such as may be exempted by 
law from the payment of debts, shall still be liable and subject, 10 their 
hands, to the payment of the debts of such testator ; and whenever a person
dies intestate, all of bis estate shall ve~t immediately in his heirs at law;
but, with the exceptions aforesaid, shall still be liable and subject, in their
hands, to the payment of the debts of the intestate. But upon the issuance of
letters testamentary or of administration, on any such estate, the executor or
administrator shall have a right to the possession of the estate, as it existed
at the death of the testator or intestate, with the exception aforesaid ; and it
sbali be his duty to recover possession of and hold such estate in trust, to be 
disposed of under the provisions of this act. 
61 T. Th('I dnratton or iu1mlni!ltmtlon WM\ under rormer II\W1', prt•cl~t>ly tb:cd, with powt>r, under spt'clal
clrc111111'lnn<'eS, or prolonentlon, J,"lp;k v. Norvel, 9 Tl'X. 16. By thlt1Jnw the whole estate vests In the heirs, 1<Ub· 
ject. witb certain excepttons, to tho payment of his debts, Id .. and Ansl11y v. Baker, 14 Tex. 613. The (JOR!l('S- 
&Ion, of the admlulstrator lt1 In truet, l-'bk v, ~on·t'I, !I Tex. 16. When tho objoct or the trust I!! sntl~fled. the
J>~p.·rty Is restored to the helrs. Irl.; Howard v. Bennett, 18 Tex. 814: Chandler v. Hudson, 11 Tex. 87; llur1 
v. Horton, 12 Tt·X. 288. This section compared with M'<'tlons 83 84. M, ~1. 62. G6, and 68. These contemplate
that cn·•litnra must pursue tht•lr re11wrllcs_ throueh tilt' county court, a.<1 the orrllnary rnle. (YcYtll<'r v. Butler,
9A> Tex. 402; Cunnlmrhnm v. Tnylor. M. It!!.) nn>Pn v, ltugcl~·, 28 Tex. IWll. Tbose whe 1111e nn heir, dlstrtbnteo, 
or other ()('1"11011 in possesslon, or one who ts not nn n1l111lnlstrntor or executor or tho estate, must aver such fn<'ta
a11 hrin,r them within some one of tho excepttons, (Monteom<>ry v. Nnsh. ~ T1•x. l~i· Carroll v. Carroll, 
20 Tex. 746.) Id. And that the property W:1$ In 'another sL1U>, nt the time or the death or1he decedent, doos
not 001ii,t1t11w an l':t~f1tlon. lei. M-1. Po!IS••!!:,lon 11~· the heir. cln(•S not make him liable as an executor cu HOI& 
tort; .\nsley , r, B.,ker, 14 Tex. 618. Un,Jer our t'nnnE'r Spanlsh Rnd Louletana eodes, the wbo!E' proJlt"rty was vested,
by seceptsnee, with or without the bt•nl'ftt of Inventory, In the helrs, or WM renounced by them, tho nppolntment 
of' an n<lmlnlstrstor bt-lnir a suboedtnnte mntter clt•rwrulE'nt on clrcnmsteneos, Bntrord v, Hollhnan, 10 TPx. b1~
The theory tl111t the personal esta•e Is In nbeyunce until tho 21'!\nt or admlnls\mtlon, was nef'<'r law In thl11 state.
Jt ve&t(t(\ at once In Its true owners, subject to admtnistratton. Id.; Blair v. Cirmero~ 10 Tex. 40. There are
exeeptlon11 to the rule that the administrator must sue, The heirs may, In certaln CMeS. Patton v. o .... gory, 
t1 Tex. ~17; Moore v. Morse, 2 Tex. 402. As where there had been no admtnlstratton; or the a1lminlstra- 
tor rel\Uted to sue ; or thl're was no othl"r nect't111ity ror the admtntstratton than to recover the thfnir sued
for. Id. Or the hPlrs mny join with the admtnlstratnr, or enc without him, where their right.a require tt, and
the rl,i:bta of creditors woulcf not thereby be at?,~<!ted. Ea.lltRrllng v. Blythe, 7 Tex. 218. And see :Mcintyre v.
Chappel. 4 Tex. 181. Or If there be no lezal re11rl't1entatlves, and no creditors, the helr may sne, I.acy v. Wil- 
liams, 8 Tex, 187. And wbere tho nrlmlnlstrator had recovered jud1rment In Kentucky, and roar years afterwards the, heln sued In T..-xus. the Kentucky admlnl~trntor hnvlng died, tho snit WI\S maintained. Clav v. Clay, 
18 Tex. 200. In such a Ju<limeot, tho ten years' statute or llmltatton11 only appltes, Id. And tho defendant
may show that part or the, notes on which the jnd::m<'nt had been obtained, bad been paid before ju,llfllleDt.
Id. Anti 111·b"re the ht•lre had urmn~,I to dlvlrle the e&t."\tc• among th'<'meelv<'s, there helng no debt& an adDJlnta- 
tratlon, eeveral yl'ars al\erwards., w:111 a nullity. Fnmcls v. Hall, 18 Tex. 193. Bnt thl•re must 111,pear to ht- no
neceelty for tho admlnhltrntlon. (Erl$terllng v. Blytl11•. 1 Tex. 210; Bayle v. Forlx•s, 9 Tex. 8.~.) Francie v. 
Hall, 18 Tex. 193. When.• the 1Mlmlnlstrntrlx wns the onlv heir (there bclng no dehts), 1md 11beaolcl the land and
alaveto. ebe wHl be bounrl by tlw 11Hle as ht·lr. Chubb v. Johnson, 11 Tex. 4i5. The common anrl S1111olsb I.aw diettnotlon u to rool and per8onal r,ropertr, ndminlstrnttnn, and bt>nt>ftt of Inventory, compared. Blair v. Cisnero&,
JO Tex. 41. By the common law, the reu.l estate at once V(•sted In the heir. the personalty In the klnll', aala'"~ 
p<itria, 11nd i:,mend trnstce or the klni:dom, Thia WBB chan1tl'd by the statute, Slat Edward III., chap. And 
the moden1 1loetnnl' ls., that the pc~on11lty r.~rnalned In abeyance, until the grant ot' administration; and the
,.t~tdv1wi, aftt.r the J•:1y111f'11t of dehl,i, rt>m11lne><l to the heirs. Id. Under tho Spanish code, the whole estate, 
real and 11t-n1onlll, mixed, :incl cho~··s in action, descended In one mllSII to the helra. (L 18, tit. 9. part T; Die. de 
l..eJC. 'DtJrf)(> lh:RtWEtco.) Id. But bP coulil take with bt-neftt or inventory, anrl only be llablo to that extent.
(Pooteney v. C-t-cil, S La. 821.) Id. 42. Under the prel\ent code of Louisiana, the su~111lon 111 acquired by the
heir Immediately on the dc.-.th or the deceased; tbou,rh this Is modified by art. 940, suspendln!t the rights or the
holr, nntll he decld,·s wh<·th.ir be acc.-.ptll or r.·Ject& Id. 49. Under the laws or Spain, the accoptance11 or auoCE'lllllons wore pnr(• llncl 11lmple, and with the benefit of Inventory. Id. And It may be expreBB, by writing. or 
tAclt. by eomo actor the bolr. (L. 11 and 18, tit. 6, part 6; Dleclonarlo, t1~rbo Aooxruoro?J DB HnllNou ... ) Id.
43. To act as helr}a to accept. Id. When a party died In 1838, and no admlnt1tratton wu taken unUl 1849, 
St was a nulltty. 1d. 
§ 1374. {1222) [113] ThE} bond of an executor or administrator of any
kind, shall not become void on the first recovery, but may be put in suit, and 
prosecuted from time to time, until the whole amount thereof shall have been 
recovered. Such suit may be brought and prosecuted by any administrator
of the estate not administered, in his own name as administrator, whenever
the estate he represents has been injured by the breach.of the bond of the 
executor or any previous administrator of the estate; or any other person or
persons injured by a breach.of any such bond, may bring suit thereon in their
own name; and any number of such persons may join in such suit. 
ABT. 1375. (1223) [1141 All suits, on the bond of any executor or admin- 
urtrator, shall be commencea and prosecuted within four years next after the
death, resignation, removal, or discharge of such executor or administrator,
and not thereafter : Provided, however, that infants, f ema covert, and persons
non compos mentis, shall have at least two years within which to institute
eucb suits after the removal of their respective disabilities. 
A.Br. 1376. (1224) (115) When an administrator of the estate not ad- 
· ministered, has been or shall be hereafter appointed, he shall succeed to all
the rights, powen, aod duties, of the former e:i:eC?~tor '?r ~is~r~wr1 e;-: 
cept such rights and powers conferred on the former executor by the will of
the testator, as are different from those conferred by this act on executors gen­
erally; and such administrators shall have power to make themselves parties
to all suits prosecuted by the former executor or administrator of the estate,
and may be made parties to all suits prosecuted against the former executor
or administrator of the estate: they shall have power to settle with the former
executor or administrator of the estate, and to receive and receipt for all
such portion of the estate as remains in their hands : they shall have power
to bring suit on the bond or bonds of the former executor or administrator 
in their own name, as administrator.for all the estate that has not been ac­ 
counted for by such former executor or administrator ; and they shall proceed
to administer such estate in like manner as if their administration was a con­ 
tinuation of the administration of the former executor or administrator, with
the exceptions herein before named ; but such administrators shall, within one
month after their being qualified, return an inventory and list of claims, in
like manner 38 is required in this act for original administrators, and they
shall also in like manner, return additional inventories and lists of claims;
and whenever an executor shall accept and qualify, after letters of adminis­
tration shall have been granted, Emch executor shall in like manner succeed 
to the previous administrator; and he shall proceed to administer the estate
in like manner as if his administration was a continuation of the former
one; subject, however, to any legal directions of the testator, in relation 'to 
the management of the estate. 
51 S. The ndminl!!trntor de bonM fllm has power to hrlng 11ult BgBlnst bis prcdeeessor. Boulware v. Hen­
drick!!, 2:3 T,•x. ()~: Baldwln v. Dearborn, 21 Tex. 448; Martol v. MarlPI, 17 Tex. 896. There is nothing lo 
Mnrphy v. ~fonar1I (11 Tex. 673) repui:nant to this cnnclnsion. A de.v·1,;larit In the probate court, before suit,
need not be ttrst cstabltshed, Mnrtd v, Martel, 17 Tex. H90. TI.J1s sectlon hn8 made provtsion for suits
by the administrator <le l,oniR 1w11, ngnin6t tho former ::ulmlnlstrat.or; und tho eases here provided fl_l.r, 
o.re the univ caees In which such nction cnn he mnlntulued. Murphy v, Menllr•l, 11 Tex, 677, 678. The opfh­
ton i't Mm:r.hy v. Menard. that "the only net ion which the ndmtnl-itrator de bon.i« non can have ngalnst tho
t'ormc,r adm nlstrator, Is on his bond." is n mistake. It holds that tho ndmlnist.rator cu boni-1 11011-, cnn sue the
fortm-r ndmtnistrator only In the cases provided t'or In this section. Murphy v. Mcnnn\, 14 Tex, 6i. llnd it
been tntcnd.«l to construe this section, It would hnve been helrl, that the power to settle carries alone the> power 
to call to account, and to sue the former mlmtnlstrator fo1· any elfects remulning In hie hands unadmlnistceed,
Id. 'I'his of course would not require a resort to snit upon his bond, Id. 63. And ho mn.y rveove r the proceeds 
or the hire or nvgroos, even though they have since recovered thelr freedom. Boulware Y. Ilendrlcks, 23 
'l'tiX; 66:3. 
§ 1377. (1225) (11 Ol Whenever, under the provisions of this act, an 
administrator pro tun. shall have been appointed, and an executor shall after­ 
wards be qualified, or an administrator appointed, such executor or admin­
istrator shnll succeed nnd be made a party to all suits and actions prosecuted
by, or against such administrator pro tcm. ; and such executor or adminis­
trator sh:111 have the right to settle with such administrator pro tem., and
receive and receipt for all the estate remaining in his hands ; and shall have 
the right to sue in like manner as is provided for in the previous section, on
the bond of such administrator pro tem, for all the estate not accounted for
by him. 
Anr, 1378. (1226) [11 'i] All proceedings in relation to the settlement,
partition, and distribution of estates, that now remain unsettled in the pro­
bate courts of the several counties in this state, shall be had in the county
court, and shall from this time forward, proceed and be concluded, under
the provisions of this act. . 
ARI', 1370. (1227) [118] The provisions contained in this act respecting
the prosentation of claims, shall not be so construed as to apply to the
claim of any heir, devisec, or legatee, when claiming in that capacity; and
any devisee or legatee may obtain from the chief justice of the court wfiere 
the will was proved, an order for the executor to deliver to him the property
devised or bequeathed, whenever it shall appear to such chief justice that
there will remain in the hands of the executor, after such delivery, a sufficient
amount of I he estate for the payment of all debts against said estate: Pro­
vided, such devises or legatee shall have first caused the executor, and the
other devisees and legatees, if any, and the heirs, if any of the estate is 
coming to them, to be cited to appear and show cause why such order should
not be made. 
IH 9. Where the claim (or an annuity out ot' the estate had been established In the district court. the 
coonty court bas Jurisdiction to order the payment of tho allowance. Key v, Crall;', 21 Tex. 4~ It would seem
that In such a caee, the belr11 or deTlaeee need not be cited. Id. There ta no inhibition agaiDst creditors or 
heirs selltng their Interest in estates. Id. 
§ 1380. (1228) [119] When complaint shall be made in writing, to
any chief justice, that any person has the last will of any testator or testatrix, 
01' any papers belonging to the estate of a testator or intestate; said chief
justice shall cause such person to be cited to appear before him, either in 
term time or in vacation, and show cause why he should not deliver such will 
to the court for probate; or why be should not deliver such papers to the
executor or administrator; and upon the return of such citation served,
unless such will or papers are so delivered, or good cause be shown to the
court for not delivering the same, the chief justice, if satisfied that such
person had such will or/npers, at the time of the complaint being filed, may
cause him to be arreste and imprisoned until be so deliver them. 
5~0. '111ls sectlon embraces all persons having papers or tho estate in their posseseton, without dietlncUon
or :-,·i:ar,1 to the pl:i<"<• of ,lomlctle (county) of such persons. Pierpont v. Threlkeld, 18 TeL ~ In tfile case, 
the plea of the defendant, that be r,•11trll'd In De Witt county, and thereforee. the eonntv court or Calhoun county
had no jurisdtetton uver btrn, was held to be h:111. M. Wlwn nothtng 1'":\S dvtormlned by the dlstri<'t court but 
tho plen to tiir jnrl11rilrtlon, nn order remanding the caso to the county court, wa..~ sustained. Id. 241. Thia 
seetton rxten1!11 to all persons, i&nd embraces all papers belonainz to a testator or Intestate, Miller v. ,Jaaper,
10 Tex. 516. An ndmtnlsu-ator <Id bo11i, non mny have the order aimln@t bis predecessor, Id. Hut the tlrst
aihnlnt,trator cannot be eompelled to 1111M'tl1<ler his own voucners or paper11, necessary to hlt1 own defense, Id. 
The 15th sectlon or the 4th article or tho constitution, and till' I 15th sectlon of this act. compared; und held,
that the act h1 not unconetltuttonal : also, that this remedy I,; lhnlted 11lon,• to the r,;npers of the estate; wh!le the 
ll~th secttou (H11.rt. ut. 12'2".'i) extends to tho whole etatute. Miller v, Ja11per, 10 I'ex, :>17. 
§ 1381. (1229) [120] All the provisions in this act relative to an
executor or administrator, shall apply and extend to an executrix or adminis­
tratrix, or executors or administrators respectively, unless otherwise expressly
provided for; and whenever :my party in the singular number, or a male
party is mentioned, the rule shall apply to a female, or to two or more
having- a joint interest, or jointly concerned, applying or called upon, so far
as the rule csn with prop: iety apply, or so far as is not otherwise directed. 
§ 1382. ( 1230) [ 121] Any one _interested in the estate• of a deceased
person, may at any time within two years after the settlement by the chief 
justice of any account of the executor or administrator of such estate, have
the same revised and corrected by the district court of the county in which
the letters of such executor or administrator wer.e granted, upon making
proof before such district court, that there was any error Qr fraud in such
account or settlement : Provided, that he shall first obtain from the clerk
of the court in which such account was settled, a transcript of all the papers
relating to such.account :md settlement, and file the same with a petition in
the office of the clerk of said district court, and cause such executor or
administrator, or his legal representatives, to be cited as in other suits in said
district court. 
521. The administrator d~ boni11 non, cannot avail htmself or this nor nny other seetlon of this act, to revtse
the settlement o( a ti,rmn adrnlnlstrator', Martel v. Martel, 17 Tex. 896: Murphy v. MennNI, 11 Tl•J:. 6i8. 
Snch II proceeding lies at tho 11utt or a creditor, legato ... or dlstrtbutee, only. l\fortl'I v. Mortel, ti Tex. 39i. This
IM'Ct1on la not In vtolatinn of the 2-lth sectlon or the 7th nrtlcle (a:cn,•ml provisions) of the state constltutton,
Murphy v. Menn rd, 11 Tex, 6i3. Fnclf.r this sectl .. n, provtous orders of the court may be revtsed. ( llogt,rty v.
Scott, 10 Tex. 621'>; Murphy v. :\frn:m, 11 Tex, 618.) Heflleflnger v. George, t.l Tl•X. 5:>2. That one of the
P!!rtle11 who obtained t.ht' order w:\14 d,a,1, wtll n .. t abate the prot.'t.'t>dini::-s. bur the snit mny be carried to judgment
a~bo Instance of the survivors, l~0<·11e v. Rkl.:s, 18 TeL 166. The distribution could be made la accordance 
with the principles In sectlons b'9, 90. 
§ 1383. (1231) [122] All decisions, orders, decrees, and judgments,
of the county court, under the provisions of this aot, shall be entered on the
records of the court by the clerk, at the time such decision, order, decree, or
judgment, shall be made or rendered. 
522. A. purported order or a partltlon-0r an estate, made ont and sfl?ll<'d by the chtcr Justice, and by him
ordere<lto bt• reoonJod, but not entered upon the minutes. docs not conclude the portl1>s, as would a Jod1tru1>nt or 
decree. Debrell v. Ponton, 2'~ Tex. ®· The proceedings for partition hnd not h,·,,n bad. Id. There hlul been 
no ~tltlon for Jl&Dtltlon; and In ract nothln1t, required liy tho statute, to mnke a blntllnit partition. Id. Where
tho widow had udmtntetered, and II elalm had been allowed on a note eh::ne,l hy hersl'lf and husband, and the 
admtnlstmtlon had been closed, and tho suit was to subject the prop,•rty which had JlllBf'elf into the widow's
bands., by this pretended partition, It w1111 a good cause of aetlon, Id. &Sb to 690;. and s. c. 27 Tex. 623.. 
AnT. 1884. (1232} [123] Any person who may consider himself aggrieved
by any such decision, order, decree, or judgment, shall have the right to
appeal to the district court of the county: Provided, he shall within fifteen
days after such decision, order, decree, or judgment, shall have been made
and rendered, file with the clerk of said court, a bond for costs and damages,
with good and sufficient sureties, payable to the chief justice, in such sum as
he shall require, and to be approved by said chief justice; conditioned that
the appellant shall prosecute said appeal to effect, and perform the decision,
order, decree, or j, .. dgmect, which the district court shall make thereon, in
case the cause shall t,a. decided against him. 
528. The bond ls not reqnlre.! or execn ~.·"!I or admlntet.rnton. but or thote personally h..t.ire11ted. (Ennis v, 
Crump, 6 Tex. 84; Hart. a.rt. 804.) Battle v. Ho'lllard, 18 Tex. MT. But i!the appeal 1wrsonally concern the all min· 
t11trntur, he m11at glT<' th" bond. Jd .. The 11t:itute anpllt!& to an1 account renllere,l pending the· odm. loistrA• 
Uoa. Birdwell v. Kaufi'moo, 26 Tn. 1~11 n10 rem.edy may bo pursued, aa well while µ1e &d~lnlatr:*>r 
remaina mch, u after he bu ren°dered hie Gaal aeeoant. and been dfechanred. (Morpb7 T. Menard. 11 Toz. rl1.
879.) Id. See the Conner 11tatntH compared, Ennis v. Crump, e Tn:. IW. No otbcr notice 111 neces!lllry, than 
to appeal In open court, and to have It entered of record. Battle v. Howard, 18 Tex. 8'8. Under the !dmllar 
law of 1886, the court Wl\8 required to try the appeal on Its merit&. Townaend Y. Munger, 9 Tex. 810. The
probate court couffl not rt>vl11e Its own judzrnents rendered at the previous term, Id. The nppeal bond blndl 
Uie llU'ttea to ft ror the ooata Incurred by the appeal. Little T. Birdwell, Tyler T. fl Tu. 69i. Thia le • pro­
{ectfon to the offloors of the court. And they are nut required to bring aulta tu the name of the chief Juatice for
their COit&. Id. 
§ 1385. {1233) [124] Upon such appeal bond being filed in the clerk's
office, it shall be his duty immediately to make out a certified transcript of
the proceedings in the case, and transmit the same to the diatriet court. 
§ 1386. (1234) [125] In case the clerk of the county court shall be
unable for want of time to make out such transcript before the first day of the
next term of the district court of the county, after such appeal is taken, then
such transcript shall be transmitted to the next succeeding term of said 
court.
§ 138'1. (1235) [126] In all cases where an executor or administrator 
shall neglect the performance of any duty required by this act, and shall be
cited to appear before the court on account thereof, he shall be liable for all
costs of such proceeding, out of his own estate; and whenever an executor or
administrator shall be removed for any of the causes set forth in this act, be 
shall be liable in like manner for all costs attending such removal. 
§ 1388. (1236) [127] In all cases where a party shall file any applica­
tion, complaint, or opposition in the court under the provisions of this act, and
on the trial thereof he shall be defeated or fail in the object for which his
application, complaint, or opposition was filed, he shall be liable for all costs
occasioned by the filing of his application, complaint, or opposition. 
§ 1389. (1237) [1281 The chief justice shall have power to enforce
obedience to al) his lawfuf orders agamst executors or administrators, by
!ttachment and imprisonment : Provided, no such imprisonment shall exceed
three days for any one offense ; be shall also have power to order the clerk
to issue execution against the estate of an executor or administrator, in favor
of any person to whom money has been ordered to be paid by such executor
or administrator: such execution shall be made returnable in sixty days;
shall be tested and signed by the clerk, and sealed with tne seal of the court;
and may be directed to the sheriff or other lawful officer of any county in the
state; and all proceedings under such executions shall be governed by the
laws regulating proceedings under executions issued from the district court,
so far as the same may be applicable. 
524. Under this aectlon, 11 pl\rly had a remedy to enforce an ordflr, made In hta IITor to ~11 property, anti 
pav bis 1111t•clnl llcn, and the 11l5b-lct court had no JnrladlctiQn. Wheeler v. Goffe, M Tex. ML- Where the
ho)der of a claim Jll'l."l!1•ntt>1l II formal petition to the probate court, setting forth the taota of allowance and order 
to pay, 11n1l prayh:,ir j11.-t::111i-nt 111C11inl't the Rdmlnlst.r:itor, such a mode of proceeding wu not objectionable.
Pttuer v. 1-'lllnui:-n11. Ji Tex. !>. The allowance Is a judgment; And In such a proceeding, the administrator can· 
not lmpench It. Id. In such & caae, the oorrect judgment ta, that ezeoutton faaue against the administrator.
Id. Tee order to pay La ounclu&lve on the admlol.iltnior and hi.a prhl• GraY' "· KcFarl&Dd., ii Tex. UB. 
§ 1390. {1238) [129] In all proceedings in the county oourt, arising
under the provisions of this act, the depositions of witnesses may be taken
and read in evidence, under the same rules and regulations as in the district
eourt ; and an laws in relation to witnesses and evidence, which govern the
district court, shall apply to all proceedings in the. county court, under the 
provisions of this act, so far as they are applicable.
§ 1391. (1239) [130] In all cases under the provisions of this act, 
where it is necessary to cite any person who is out of the limits-of this state,
and the mun,1]er of citing such person is not herein otherwise provided for, such
person may be cited by publication in like manner as in the district court. 
§ 1392. (1240) [131) Each clerk of the county court shall receive and
file all applications, complaints, petitions, and all other papers- permitted or
required to be filed in said courts under the provisions of this act, and shall
indorse on each the date when it was filed, and sign bis name to such in­
dorsemcnt: he shall issue all necessary notices, citations, writs, and process
from said court, without any order from the chief justice, unless such order
is required by some l?rovieion of this act. 
§ 1393. (1241) (132] Whenever complaint in writing, and under oath,
shall be made to the chief justice by any person interested in the estate of a
decedent, that the executor or administrator of such estate is about to remove
the same, or any part thereof, out of the limits of this state, such chief justice
shall have pow..er to order a writ to issue, directed to any lawful officer of
this state, commanding him to seize such estate, or any pai·t thereof, and bold 
the same, subject to such further order as the chief justice may make on such
complaint: Provided, that no such writ shall issue unless the complainant
shall give bond, with good and sufficient security, paynblo to the executor or
administrator, conditioned for the payment of all damages that may be 
recovered for the wron~ul suing ont such writ.
§ 1394. (1242) 133] The provisions of this act respecting the pre- 
sentation of claims, aha not be construed to npp .. ly to any claim of an executor
or administrator against, bis testator or intestate, that has not been aliowed 
by some previous exeeutor or administrator of the same estate ; but any
executor or administrator holding any such claims, shall file them in the court
from which his letters were granted, on or before the sixth term of the court
after the original grant of letters, or the same shall be barred. The chief
justice shall, at said term, or at some subsequent term, proceed to examine
such claims, and hear all legal evidence that may be offered in support of
them, and if satisfied from the evidence that such claims, or any of them,
are just, he shall enter on the minutes of the court bis approval of Ruch
of them as he may think Just; and the amount so approved shall be paid ip. 
due course of administration, unless, within three months after such approvJ,
some person interested in the estate shall take an appeal from such approval 
to the district court; in which case, such account, or so much thereof as may
be approved by a jury, shall be paid in due course of administration: if such
claims or any of them shall not be approved by the chief justice, the executor
or administrator may appeal to the district court in like manner, and such
amount as may be approved by a jury, shall be paid in due course of ad­
ministration. If, in any appeal under the provisions of this section, the
executor or administrator shall fail to establish the whole of bis claim, he
shall be liable for costs; but if he establish the whole amount of his claim,
the costs shall be paid out of the estate of the testator or intestate. 
5~5. From thte provfaton of the statute It ts clear that an admlnl11trator hes no authority to allow claims
which be bolds agmn2,t an eatate, ancl that such elairns oon only be approved or l'Stebl111bed ln the mode therein 
provided, Henderson v. Ayers, 28 Tex. 102. And where the 11dmlnl11uator had ht-en the agent for collecting the
claim, he cannot allow It. Id. Bot it devolved on tho plaintifff to abow th11t the claim WRI! barred when allowed, Ir
he rotted on that tact. (Ayera v. Henderson, 9 Tex. 639: T(\8) v. Ayers.. Id. 6M.) Id. The remedy by app<,al ls not.
esclnalTo. A. 11uit wUI lie In the district eourt, In addition to the remedy by e11penl and eerttorari, Lott v.
Ballaud, 21. Tex. 17(1. Thia eeetion ts confined to money demands, Robinson v. McDonald. 11 Tex. 891. The ad­ 
mtnlatrator may sue the heirs for specific performance, and for damages., where the whole covenant cannot be
performed, in the dletrlot court, without tho affidavit neoeesary to a money demand. Id. 889. 
§ 1395. (1243) [1341 The chief justices of the several county courts
shall have like power to enforce all orders, decrees, and judgments heretofore
made and rendered in the probate court of their county, as they would have
if such orders, decrees, and judgments had been made or rendered by them
under the provisions of this act. 
§ 1396. (12•4) [135] The rights, powers, and duties of executors and
administrators shall be governed by the principles of the common law, where
the same do not conflict with the provisions of this act. 
§ 139'1. (1246) p37] This act shall take effect and be in force on and
aft.er the first Monday m August, 1848; and on and after that day, "An act 
to organise probate courts," passed 11th May, 1846, shall be, and is hereby
repealed. 
. 
AN A.OT TO PROTECT THE RIGHTS OF THE HEIRS A.ND NEXT OF KIN TO THE
MEMBERS OF THE GEORGIA BA Tr~ION AND .OTllER VOLUNTEERS FROM
FOREIGN COUNTRIES, WHO HAVE FALLEN IN THE BA.Tl'L'ES OF THE RE· 
PUBLIC, OR OTHERWISE DIED IN THE LIMITS OF THE SAME. 
§ 1398. (1053) [11 No administration shall be granted on the estate
of any person who servecl in the Georgia battalion, or any other volunteer
from a foreign country, who may have fallen in the battles of the republic, or
otherwise died in the limits of the same, to any person who shall not show
nimself entitled to the same, as next of kin, or shall not produce an authority
from the heirs or next of kin of such deceased soldier, authorizing him to
take administration of the same. 
§ 1399. (1054) [2] Where administration bas heretofore been granted
on the estates of deceased soldiers, to other than the heirs, or next of kin 
of such soldiers, it shall not be lawful for such administrator to sell the
lands of such deceased, without the consent or approbation of the heirs
of such deceased soldier; the document relied on as evidence of such eon- 
sent of said heirs, to be recorded by the probate judge, he being' satisfied
of the genuineness of the same, before granting a decree of sale, to the
administrator. 
li25a. Where the ndmlnlstraUon was irra.nt.etl on I\ 8()\dler'e estate, In 1837, the ftnit section had no oontroL
Harris v. Groves. AueUn-Galv. T. 26 Tox. 580. Where the fat.her wu living, he waa the heir, to the excla·
aton of the brother-In-law, to whom adminlstratloa wa.a granted. Id. Therefore. the ndmlnlt\trntor bad no 
power (after the passage or this act) to sell without the consent or the heir. And the court had no right to decree
a eale, n.nUI the document wu recordod by the judge. Id. 
AN ACT CONCERNING ESTATES OF DECEASED SOLDIERS. 
Whereas, doubts have arisen, whether the several acts of the congress of
the republic of Texas relating to the estates of deceased soldiers, were
repealed by the act to organize probute courts, approved :May 11th, 1846, and
unauthorized persons have administered u:eon many of such estates, and s~1d
the lands intended to be granted to the heirs of such soldiers, contrary to tne
intent of such acts ; thereforee, 
§ 1400. [I l " An net to provide for the settlement of deceased soldiers'
estates," approved May 18th, 1838, and" .An act to amend said act," npproved
December 24th, 1838, be, and the same are hereby repealed; and that the
"Act to protect the ri~hts of the heirs and next of kin to the members of the
Georgia battalion, and other volunteers from foreign countries, who have
fallen in the battles of the republic, or otherwise died in the limits of the
same," approved January 14th, 1841, be, and the same is declared to be in
full force and effect. 
§ 1401. [2] No administration shall be granted on the estate of any
person who served as a volunteer from another state or country, who may
have fallen in the battles of the republic, or otherwise died in the limits of
the same, or elsewhere, to any person who shall not show himself entitled to
the same as next of kin, or shall not produce an authority from the heirs, or
next of kin of' snch deceased soldier, authorizing him to take administration. 
§ 1402. [3] When administration has heretofore been granted on the
estates of deceased soldiers, without the authority contemplated by this act,
it shall not be lawful for such administrator to recei ve from any officer of the
state, or other person, any patent or land claim, money, or evidence of debt,
to which such deceased soldier may have been entitled, nor to sell the lands,
or land claims of such deceased, without the consent of the heirs of such de­
ceased soldier; and the proof relied on as evidence of such consent, shall be
recorded in the court granting the order to sell, before such order is made. 
§ 1403. [ 4] In all cases where administration has been granted on
estates of deceased soldiers, without the authority contemplated Ly this act,
it shall be the duty of the chief justices of the county courts grantiug the
same, to cause the administrators to be notified, as in other cases, to file in the
court the authority or consent aforesaid ; and in case of failure so to do, they
shall order the removal of such administrators, and also, to require them to
deliver to the clerk of the court all the property and title papers in their pos­
session belonging to the estate; and 1t shall be the duty of such adminis­
trators or clerk of the court, having possession of said property, to deliver
the same to the heirs of such deceased soldier, or their legally authorized
agent, on demand. 
etourts, ilistrict. 
JURISDICTION. 
il A.Cl TO OBGANIZE TH.II: DISTRIOT COURTS, AND TO DE,P'INB TB..EIB POWEBS
AND .JUBISDICTION. 
ABT. 1404. {640) [1] The governor shall nominate, and by and with the
advice and consent of the senate, appoint one judge for each judicial district,
who shall be commissioned by the governor, and shall reside in some one of
the counties of which his district is composed, and shall hold courts in ra(·h
county at the court house, or such other place as may be designated by law, at 
such times and in such manner as may be prescribed. 
e 
AnT. 1405. (641) [2] The judges of the district courts shall, by virtue
of their offices, ho conservators of the peace throughout the stare, and the
district courts shall have original jurisdiction of all criminal case .. , of all snits
in behalf of the state, to recover penalties, forfeitures, an.l escheats, aric l of
all suits against the state, which are or may be allowed by law, and shall
have power to hear and determine all prosecutions in the name of the state,
hy indictment, information, or presentment, for treason, murder, or other
felonies, crimes, and misdemeanors, committed within their respective juris­
dictions, except such as may be exclusively cognizable before justices of the
1wacc, or other courts of the state, and shall, in criminal cases, have and
exercise all the ]?Owers incident and belonging to courts of· oyer and terminer,
and general jail delivery; also of all suits for the recovery of land, of all
cases of divorce and alimony, and of all suits, complaints, and pleas
whatever, without regard to any distinction whatever, between law and
equity, when the matter in controversy shall be valued at or amount to one
hundred dollars or more, exclusive of interest; and generally to do and
perform all other acts pertaining to courts of general jurisdiction. 
&26. On Rn nppeal from a Justice or the peace, althouzh the· dlstrict court has no jurisdiction, 1t mav ren­ 
der a judztnenr for eoats, (Doss v, '\\"11.1?iron,•r, 3 Tex. ri15.) H,ws,•r v. Be-llm .. r, 7 Tex, 2. Th« Jnrl~d:<'lion
hvre cnnferrr-d, lUI to amount, 1:< tn accordance with the ronstltutlon, but It 111 not exclustvo. wln-r« t lu- ,l,•\,t 
ci.rln8ln• of Interest Is one hundred d'l:Iars. Love v, Mclntyr,·, 8 Tvx, 11. 12. when, t her o ls 11 q11t·sti11n ot
tlt lo, Irnnd eompllcatcd mutters: and where the e,11111tr e,,nrt cannot r,•n<ler tho nl'e••,.;:.,iry r,·Ji,·fln n n-:1~L·r
eoncerntnz estates, the dlstrtct court h~~ oriirl1111l jnrisdlctlon. (Crain v, Crain, Ii Tex. SO; Purvis v. Sln•rrod,
12 T('lC. 1-10: Hrnlth v. Smith. 11 Tex. 102: Xi·wson v. Chr-lsmnn, 9 'I'ex, 113: Fr:,ncl~ v, Nurtheot,·, 6 Tex. is;,; 
Dobbin , •. Bryan. 0 Tex. 276: Lone v, Wortham. 4 Tvx. 3SI ; Themas v. 11111, 3 Tex. 270; Chr-vnlller v. Wilson, 
l Tex. 161.) Becton v. AlMander, 27 Tex. ~9. In Marshall v. Taylor l7 Tex, 23!'>), this court held, t liat
t111!t11 fm· th,) rnr!'rlot111l'c n( mort!'ll!!ell. where th!' mortt:n!!e<l )Jrnpl·rty exceeds one hu ndre.l d, lla"~ t" ::1'11 • 
11ho11l1I be Instttuted In tho district court, even when tho debt dernanded ts for a ,mm wltbln tho jurtsdlct ion ol 
a j ust ice of the pence. Lano v, Hownrd, 2'2 Tex. S; Gtbson v. Moore, Id. 615. The Mme Is the rul« wl:,·r,• tlw
ohicct Is to enforce the vendor's llen, Id, The lltiimtlon comprehended as w!'ll the securtty n~ the ,lt·J.t. Id.
W here the pl:ilntiff' lnjulnc<I several juduusents or " justtce, which had been ohlaln,•,I without servlee, It wa!'I
not error to render jud;rn1cnt,; 11pin~t tht> p lnintitf In the injnnctlon for till' ortzl nal n11101111ls. awl :1~alJ1~t th,•
d..f,•n,tant for costs, Willis v. Gordon, :!2 Tvx. 24-'3. Th11 dii1trh,t, court hsvlnsr 11r,111irc1l 111ril'rlktlon or the 
cause, the full m,·rlt.8 of the controversv, as 1.r,·~(·nt,,11 hy «lther party, will be udjudlcured, (IJourk,• v, V1111clcr­
liJJ, 2'2 Tex. 221.) Id. It the plnlntitt: by his avertnents, lmprop<>rly !IPc·k t» hrlnir tho ens- w!tliln 11,o• jurls-ltc­ 
tion of the district court, It Is proper to clbmios It on motion, oner ti; e ev 1,1..iw,· i:1 do~•·•I. \ < ir:1l11u11 v, 1:.,.r,,1-, r-i T .. x,
146.) Oouhenant v. Anden!on, 20 'I'ex, 460. Wherti the· questlou of j urisrlkt l .. 11 was nut rai~l·,I iu tl1t• di~trit-t
court, and there was nothing hut the smallness of tho Vt"rdk,t to ludicntc that tlw pialutilf h1q,l'llp,rl~· ~nn:::ht 
to gl\"'c th<> district court jurlS<lictlon. the i.111'r1:me court wlll not <li~t11rb th,· 1111<'Stlo11. (T,.ruox v. K,·11ut1n, 
8 Tex. B; Graham v. Hoder,~ Tex. 146; Sherwood v. Douthit, 6 Tex. 22.'i.) Elktt v. P,1wl'rs. s T .. x. 11-1. 
§ 1406. (642) (3] The district courts shall haw :lll(i exei'ci;3::> appel­
late jurisdiction, and general control over such inferior tribunals as haVti bet•n
or mny be establisheil in each county, for appointing guardian~, gr:mtin~ letu•rs
testamentary, and of admiuh;tration, for scttlin~ the accounts of executors,
administrators, and guardians, :md for the transaction of lmsiue:-s appertain­
ing to estates; and original jurisdiction in probate matters, only in cases
where the judge or clerk of probate is interested. 
&2'7. The district nnd probate (county) conrt, may hnve ('(ln<'urr<'nt orl!rlnnl lnrlsdietlon In i;ome <'n~c8.
Little • Birdwell, 21 T<'x. 606. But In cn11es whero questions of t1tl0 nr<' luvolvl'd, or tut• coustrnctlon or R 
wl!I. 1L 18 proper to Invoke th<' orl~lnal Jnrl:Mlictlon or th~· district court, :J." the more 111,proprlato tribunul for tho
n<ljudlc:i.tion or such cases. (:-,mhh \'. Smith, 11 Tex. 10-2, anti Cll.Sl'"' th('re cited; P:irkl'r v. l'arker, 10 Tex. 63; 
I>urvls v. Sherrod, 12 1'u. 140.) 1<1. 
AnT.1407. (643) [4] Theju,lgesofthe district court~,and each of them,
either in vacation or term time, shall have authority to grant, on petition to
them therefore, writs of lwbe,u; corplls, 111a11d,wws, i:1jw1ctio11, sequestration,
error, and super:~edeas, and nll other remedial writ:,, known to the law, re­
turnable according to bw: PrO\·ide,1, that no n,andmnu.~ shall be granted on
nn ex parte he:tring, and any peremptory nuw.Jamus gr:mted without notice,
shaj,l be deemed void: nnd further provided, that all writs of mandam,u«", 
sued out against the he3<ls of any of the departments or bureaux of govern­
ment, shall be returnab'..- before the Jistrict court of the county in which the
seat of government may he. 
528. The state c-0nslitution •111•0:1·,l. nncl ('ornparrcl with this l'C'<'tion. Kitchen v. Crawford, 18 T1•x, ~22. 
It was Jen to tho leglslaturo to pr,•,nil.·c· r, !::11l:1ti"11~ for th,· o:u,1·ciso of the power confe1Ted upon the jncli:,·s of
the district courts, and the llmltatio?1s :in ! r,•strictlon~ which !!ohoul<i gon•rn Its u!'rch.1H. l<l. li2:3. 'l'hl·n, aro 
no llmitatl()ns or qu:illftcatlona, r.xi:,·pt 11~ to writ8 of m,111,iamut. Id. Any _judge can gmnt nny of tlwse write;,
to run anywhere In tho atate; an,l wh,•tl,,·r or not h,· shall blal:• the rcast111 for nctiu,: u11on mnttc-rs :ind 1,11rtles
ouU;ldtl or hla dlst.rlct, is a mntter within his uwn dlscrt!tlo11. Id. A 1111111dam11./I will not lie naalnst II puhllc
offkcr, where It Is, in efl'cc~ a eult :~aln~t th<' state. Marsl1ull \·, Clark, 22 Tt•x. 81; llosnt•r ,._ DI' Yonng, 
1 Tux. 700. The writ of mc111da111111< lit·~.::!~ a 1•ri\'f1tc r .. m,dy. tu c·omp,·l th,• h,·:uls of clq,art111,·11ts. t"[,'"rform n
dnty, tn C&8C!I where the dnty ts 1,laln, uml wluirl' thc r,· I~ no ,li~cr .. tt<m. Com. G('n. Lim,I Ol!lr.e , •. :-m th,li Tex. 
dil; 01.assoock T. The Comml&Sl•111<·r, :3 Tex. ~l It will lssul' to 1111 olllcer only wh,·r,, th,• duty to be \"'!"formed
fa ministerial In Its chnrnctcr; lint nut where Lia· l'Xl'rl'ise of jud:,:mc·nt t111<l dbl'r<:tlon nru require,. Id. A 
mandamtu will not bt., l&t1U('d w!i.•,·,· It :ipJ•c·ars that It would ttff,·ct p<·n<ons who urc not bt·forc th" court, and
wh,•re the rl~bts or tho..<o pt•rso:1s h:1 \·c no~ bet!ll ~lt·t•·l"".iine<I in a previom! AUit. 1,1. It 1:1 nut allowed In
ca&s ,vhN't' tho lnw afford!! other a<l,·qrrnt1.• means of rc<ln·~,: n,,r in any •·a~c. cxee11t to perform a duty clearly
detln,•<l by l11w-ln,·olvlr1;: no disrr.-t1on, nor h·,l\·ln~ nny 11ltc·rn;1tlve. Cnlh·m ,·. T.atluwr. 4 T,·x. :129. Jt Is a. 
rn!t·, thnt ull person~ prin,·lp:illy !1,t,·r<:: !, ,I in tl1e d,·frnc,·. 11111,t ht• in<'lu,le,I In :JI(• rul1! to show ran~,·. Itl. A 
111,mtf,11111111 Is n proper wrlL Lo re,•ur,• 0111· tu an otlir,: fr.,111 whi<'h Iii' has IH·<'n 111••:.:all~· 011stt-il,nr to pnt n party
111 1,,,, M'esi, ,n of ,,n uni cl' wlil,·I. i · :h ;'..1: y <l.:i:i unl Jro:11 l,in,, .u.d lo ,· . .ti~ tu,· :.ivol, ,, 1•.11,,·r.,, 1unl ::rchiYClt 
thereof to be dellTered to him. Banton v. ·wneon, 4 T<'x. 400. Aa to other euee, see Bracken T. Welhl. 8 Ta. 
SS; A.udltorlal Board v. Arlea. 14 Tex. 72. The lflliotlug ot a writ of AabMU oorpua, 111 not a matter or OOIU"N 
tn thla etate. Jordan v. The State, 14 Tex. 486. It does not lie to revise the aetton of a court or a competent
jurllldlctlon, In cases or contempt. Id. It la well settled, that to entitle a party to the extraordinary remedy 
of mandamw, the petition mu11t stste facts which ahow, It true. that the phllntlff' baa a clear right to the r-.'"'· 
formance ot' the thing demanded ; and that It la plainly the duty of the otHcer proceeded agnlnf.lt, to perform
euoh thing. (Tapping on MandAmua, 161, 162, IM.) Houston Tap & B. It. R. Co. v. Randolph, 24 Tex. 831, 
840. It may lie where a purely mlnlst..erl:d act, not requiring judgment. and not purtakln,r or an t-xecutlve
~haracter fn any respect, ia required. (K .. ndall v. The United Statt>s, 12 Pet, 609.) Id. 841. But the exerelse of 
aueh pow61', 11 Hmlted to acts and proeeedings by the offlet>r, not implied In the several and Inherent fun<.'tiou
or dutle1 Incident to his office .i acLa or a character rather extraneous, and required of the incllvldu&I rather tb.a.n 
t
the runctlonary. (United otate1 T. Guthrie, 17 How. 808, 304; Id. Also cites Brasb,'1U' T. M:iROn, II How.
1; Decatur v. Pauldln 14 Pet. IU6; The Anclltorlal Board v. Arl<'a, 15 Tex. 75.) Id. 842. The hu~t pro,·ilO 
w out of the practice fr joining the eornmtsetoner of tbe g<'neral land office In Jund snlta, all over the state,
be remedy b1111 been aanetfoned, lo ltll application to his mlnlstl'rlal duucs, (Com. Oen. Land Office v. Smith, 
6 Tex. 478.) Id. 848. Thia section does not confer the power to imint the ,nit, bnt takrs that fiir arrnnted. Id.
But If It undertook to control the fiscal offlcel'!I tn. their official dutles, It would infmr,t the eonsututton, Id.
Nor doe11 It act to compel a public officer to do an act not cll'Mly derlned and enjoined hv law. (Glussccck v. 
Com. Gen. Land Office, 8 Tex. 61; Com. Gen. Land Office v. Smith, 5 Tt-x, 471.) Mar~lmll v, < "lurk, 22 T .. x. 81.
And aee Horton v. Pace, 9 Tex. 84; Cullem , t, Lattmer, 4 T,·x. 8'l9; Bracken v. Well!'. l3 Tex. OU; Mey('r v,
Carolu.u, 9 Tex. 2M. Much 101111 will It lie to compel tho doing of an act for whtch there I!! no :mth11rity of IRw.
Bracken v. Weill', 8 Tex. 90; Ho1m11r v. De Y onng, 1 Tex. 7tl9; Puckett v. White. 2t Tex. 004: Mlll"!'bnll v.
Olark. 2'2 Tex. 82: Horton v. Pace, 9 Tex. 81. Nor to enforce an Inchoate «bllcatlon of the ~!.:tle. II osnor v. De 
Young, 1 Tex. 769. It will not lie to compel the auditor and comptroller to allow a debt ~:iln~t the state.
(Audltorlal Board v. Arle11, 15 Tox. 72.) Audltorlal Board v. llendrlck, 20 Tex, 60. The courts would not con· 
trol their discretion. Id. A mandamu, la not a mode or trying tltlo to land, It 11!1 only where th,~ title is not
litigated, that a party may proceed by mandamu, aplnat the officer. Horton v. Hamilton, 20 Tex. Gil. Aa
adverse claimant hllll no right to come Into this proceeding, and pnt the t ltle In Issue. (Corn. o .. n. Land Ottice
"· Smith, 6 Tex. 611.) Id. The jud,rment, against or for the officer, In such a proceedlnz, i& not conclustve of
th11 rlghtll or tho clalm1111ta to the land. Horton v. Hamllton, 20 Tex. 611. 1'h11 decl~! .. n must have been upon 
the merlts, Id. 'l'he plaintlff"a right should be po61tlvely and distinctly statod ; and obj,'<'tlon11 whkh might be
anticipated, should be met and auawltt4L Cullem v. Latimer, 4 Tex. 8.'31; Winder r. Wiiiiams, 2l3 Tex, GOO;
Houston Tap. & B. R.R. Co. v. Randolph, 2-i Tex. 883. Aud show that the officer was lef't no discretion nor
alternative. Id. 8'31, 832. And It again:1t a district anrveyor, the plalntltrs tit!o to the certificate, and the ahape 
ot the 11urvey required, llbonld be averred. Winder v. William!!, 23 Tex. 603. A manclam1tJ1 Is not the appro­
priate remedy to obtain a revtsron, by tl1l8 court, of the Judgment or the district court, Little v. Morris, 10
Tex. 267. The various caeca clk·d oxbaust the authorltlc11.-ED. All J){'raons J•rlnclpally lnternt.ed In the de­ 
fence, must bd Included lo the rule to sho'11' canse why a mm1d<1m11-, should not 111811,•. "(8 Ilurrow, 14:iB; Wtl­
cock on Corporutlona, _p. 209.) Smith v. Power, 2 Tex. 67, 6S; Wtnd,•r v. Wiiiiam!!., 2!3 Tl'X. 603. Or they may
voluntnrily appear and assert their ri,cht11. Smith v. Powf'r, 2 Tex. 57, 68. Tho ,nit or quo 1D<1rra11to oan only
be eued out In file name of the a~te, by lta presldlniz: officer. Wrltcht v. Allen, 2 Tex. JMI. The order or pro­
ceedings In eulng out a writ or mandamm 111 to 8 Black. Com. Ill" :10d ordinarily It should be punned; but
the1 may be vlU'ied by the clrcwnstanoea or the case. Bradley v • .Mccrabb, Dallam, 610. 
§ 1408. (644) [5] The said courts shall have power to hear and de­
termine all motions, three days' notice being given to the adverse party,
against sheriffs, coroners, or other officers, for money received under execu­ 
tion or other process or order of court, which shall not have been paid to the
party entitled to the same, his agent or attorney, on demand, or for other de­
falcation of duty, and also all motions against attorneys and counsellors at. 
law, and give judgment and order execution, according to the laws in such
cases made and ;provided . 
.ART. 1409. (645) r6] Said courts shall have power to impose a fine, not
exceeding one hundrecl dollars, for contempt of court, and may, in their dis­
cretion, imprison any person guilty of contempt, not exceeding three days. 
§ 1410. (646) L7] The district judges, when the appropriate relief is
prayed for, may grant all such orders, writs, or other process necessary to
obtain such relief, and may also, so frame the judgments of the court as to
afford all the relief which may be required by the nature of the case, and which
is granted by courts of law or equity. 
&29. The question aa to whether the return In a ma-ndamm cue oan be lnlvl'rsed, considered, anl! th~
oommon law anthorltle,a reviewed. (l Salk. 874; i Id. 481, 482; 11 Coke, 99, b; WII. M. O. 427-9. 448; ~t&tnte 
9 Anne, chap. 20; Statute William IV., chap. 21, which 11t&tutf'a autborlzod the controverting the answer In a
mandamw C'aae.) Fitzhugh v. Cu11ter, 4 Tex. 898-896. We have no euch statute In 1'exaa, but nuder the blend· 
ing or law and equlty,.and the controllfng principle or avoiding a multiplicity of 8ulta, and or :lllowln,r all inte·
rc11ted partie11 to De brought in, aided by tbla 7th aectton, the retum may be contradicted, and the whole t'acta
eettlerl. Id. 896. 897. In Bradley v. McCrabb, Dallam, 608, It was h<.'ld, that tho 11tatnte requtrlnit flve days' llt'r·
vice or a 11ummona, doea·not apply to & mandamu, caae;. that it might be l118ued, and acted on durln1t the term.
Thal decision la approved, and hae been unctloned by eubaequent etatutee. So the common law ea'ect or the
answer may be dlaregarded. Id. 897, 89i. 
A:aT. 1411. (647} (8] The district courts of each county in this state, shall
have a seal, with a star of five points in the centre, and the words " district
court of-- county, Texas," engraved thereon; an impression of which seal
shall be attached to all writs and other process (except subpmna.8) issuing
from said court, and shall be used in the authentication of all official acts of
the clerk; said seal shall be procured by the county court of the county, and
until procured, the seals heretofore in use, or private seals may be used. 
ABT. 1412 .. (648) (91 Should the judge of any district court not appear at
the time ap~ointed for 'holding the same, the sheriff of the county, or in his
absence, or m case of vacancy in that office, the coroner shall adjourn the
court from day to day for three days, and if the judge should not appear on
the m?ming of the fourth day, then he shall adjourn the court until the next.
cowt m course. 
§ 1413. {649) (10) The judges of the district courts in their respective
districts, shall set apart particular days, not earlier than the third day of
each term, for the trial of criminal cas~ . 
§ 1414. {650) [11] The judges in any case, civil or criminal, in which
a party may swear that he is too poor to employ counsel, shall appoint counsel 
for such party, who shall attend to the cause in behalf of such party without 
any fee or reward. 
§ 1415. (651} (12] The records of the respective courts of each pre­
ceding day of the sesS10D, shall be read in open court on the morning of the
succeeding day, except on the last day of the term, on" which day they shall 
be read and si~ned by the judge presiding, in open court. 
§ 1416. l658) Ll4] The district courts may order a change of venue
for the trial ot any suit, civil or criminal, under the rules and regulations
prescribed by law. 
630. Bee ut. VIL eeo. H, of the state oonatttuUon. The 11eta upon the anbJoot had boen as fol­ 
low,:- 
All ACT SUPPLDB!.'TARY TO 
II 
AN A.OT EST.A BLISIDNG TUE JURISDICTION A~"D POWER OF THJ:
DlSTRIOT COURTS." 
§ (636.) (11 The judges of the district courts of their respective districts, shall hnvo 
power to change tbe venue for the trial of any snit, civil or criminal, on good and sufficient 
cauee set forth and duly supported by oath or affirmation of three disinterested citizens of the
republic; the sufficiency of which evidence shall be determined by the presiding judge; nnd 
when a change of venue shall be allowed in any suit, the trial thereof shall be adjourned to tho 
nearest adjoining county which is free from the like exceptions:..Provided, that such change
of venue shall in no instance be allowed more than once to each party in the same cause or
suit. And in all criminal prosecutions, the right of the change of venue shall be oontlned to
the party prosecuted. · 
This is a re-enactment of the 11th section of the dlstrtct court act o( 1836. [It is repealed aa to crim- 
inal cues by an.. 2994; and positively repealed by art. 3-116.J - . 
. ur ACT TO PBBSOBIBB TBB KANN1IR IN WilIOH SUITS SHA.LL BE TRIED, IN WWOB THE DISTRICT
JUDGES KAY BB lNTERBS'l'ED. . 
. ART. (83'1.) [I] That hereafter, it shall be the duty of any one of the district judges of tho 
republic of Texas, to change the venue upon the mot}on of any practising attorney, in any case
in which said judge may be interested, from the county in which he may be presiding, to the
nearest adjoining county, out of his district, any law to the contrary notwithstanding. 
After tho partlea bad announced themselves ready tor trial, and ft wu found fmpouf ble to obtain a Jory In
file city or 8rown1Yllle, the court pru~rly heard an application tor cha.nge or nnue, and ordered tbe obange.
S..Un.u v, Sttlllll.&D,__Oalveaton T. 21) l'ex. 15_ 11'. Oounter aflldavfta C11Dnot be h,"Wd. (W~ltt,,r v. Taylor, 
'l Ired. 110.) (ii. The 14th aecUon or this act and the 16th. compared with the 14th section ot the 7~ article
of the conatftnt.ton of the atate. Itoirers v. Watroua, 8 Tex. M. Tbe11e sections (16 and 16) eeeln to have been 
intended t.o provide for the entire eubject-matter (callt'a in which the Judirc la interested, or baa been of counsel~
and to supersede All former lawa upon the 11abJect. Id. M. A subsequent 1tatatt>, revising the aubject-rnntt.(>r ar 
a former one. and cletu"ly lnUlnded as a subetltute for It, although it contain no esprese words to that etrcct, moat
o~rate to re.peal the tormer to the extent to which Its provisions are revised and supplied. (The CommonweAlth 
T. Crowley, 1 Ashmead., 119.) Id. M. So, though the subeequent statute Is not repugnaiit In Its pru-viaions, to a
former ODE'; :,et, It It was clearly Intended to prescribe the only rule which should govern, It repeals the prior
etatute. (Davis v. FalrbGirn, 8 How. 636.) Id. M. But see note, oontr«i. Thouvcnln v. Bodrignee, 24 Tex.
488.. Tbe act of 18'8 (quoted In th1s note) was ropealod by tho provisions of tho act ot 1™. Roten v. Wat­ 
roua, 8 TeL 65. There w1111 then no rlp:ht to ehange the venue on account of the interest or tho judge, afttr tho 
passage or this law of 18.f6. Id. When tho venu'e baa been changed., and the trial had tn anotfier county, th11
preewnptlon la that the statute W'III oomplled with, until the contrnry la made to appear, Hall v. Jackson,
BTeL 809; Borden v. Houston, 2 Tex. 599. Tho presumptions ll1"0 in filvor of the correctness, Id. And any
deu7 i1 presumed to be explained, 1111Ul the contra,-y appfbn. Ponton v. Bellows, 13 TeL 2M. 
[ AN A.err TO PROVIDE FOR THE CHANGE OF VENUE OF CASES, WHICH THE
DISTRICT .JUDGE KAY BE DISQUALIFIED FROM TRYING. 
§ 141'1. fl] Whenever any one of the district judges of the state of
Texas shall be clisqualified by law from trying or sitting in any case pending
before him, and the parties shall fail to appoint by consent a proper person to 
try said case, it shall be the duty of such judge, upon the motion of any
· party or his attorney, interested in the cause, to change the venue of such 
case fro-n the coanty in which he may be residing, to the county out of his 
district, the county seat of which shall be nearest to the county seat at which
said cause is pending, or any county the parties may agree.] 
181. Where a Ju~ fa sued Jointly on a promtaeor:, note, although not ee"ed, be should chaoge,the 
TeDue; and ft ta error tor litm to entt,r a dtlioontlnuance, as to htmaol~ and entertain jurtsdlction u to bll co- 
cletendant. Hawpe v. Smith, H Tex. 41L Weare not aware ot any law that reqolred'""tbat a party should have 
aoecta1 nottoe or the preaenc:e of a jud,te competent to alt tn the case. Thompaon v. Alford, !IO Tex. 49i.
There can be no change or venue. anti[ after serrtee or prooesa; and this rule applies to notlcea to attorneys. 
Karttn v. White, !IO Tux. 173. The tuuance of notice or proceu from the county to whtch the eaose has been
lent., doee not oure the defect, since a plea in abatement will Ile. Id. The application for a ch.ango nf vtnue
mmt be made within a convenient. and reasonable time. Uook v. Garza. 9 Tex. 361. And may be made afkr
oTerrullng a motton for continuance. Cho.mben v. Flak, 1~ Tex. 888. If the j111hlo who Is dlaquo.Ufted. tnad- 
Tertentl:, dlaml11 the cue, either be, or any other Judge, may annul the Improvklcnt or,lor at a 1mh&E"quent
11rm. Oarrett "· Qalnea, 8 Tex. 44'1'; OWca11le Y. Redmond, IS T~x. 1~; Ho;,·ra v. Wait.rvua, 8 Tes. 16. The• 
Iaterested judgo must neither try the C-ASe on It& merlts, nor do any thlng to prevent lta trial upon lta morit&
Id. A neglect to transfer the case within II reasonable time, may be explained. (Gillespie v. Redmond, 13 Tex. 
9.) Ponton v. Bellows, 18 Tex. 2M. What will be s ressonable time, must depend upon tho circumataneee in
each case. M. And where there wus a motion to ,Usm!es, in the abeence or a statement or facts, the presumption 
lg, tbat the efreumstancee of delay, In transferring the record, were explained. I<!. Where. l\f'uor sn ord .. r to
change the venue, the partie~ r.cmaln In the court and litigate, the presuuiptlon Is that they waivt>d file order, 
Frosh v. Holmes, 8 Tex. 32. 
§ 1418. (654) [15] When. any judge of the district court may be
interested in causes pend mg in bis district, or where any of the parties may
be connected with him by consanguinity or affinity within the third degree,
or when the judge has been of counsel in the causes, be may exchange
districts with any judge who is not subject to like disabilities; any judge
may hold courts with any other district judge, and exchange of districts may
be made whenever the judges exchanging may deem expedient. 
632. Neither the constltution or the republic, nor any law thereof, prevented a judge from slttlnsr In a
cause where he had been or counsel. Chambers v. Hodeos, 23 Tex. 111; 11. c. 8 Tex. rit 7. Interest 11f tho ,l!!!trlct 
judi:e. was the only disqualification, prior to the state constitution. (Act of 2-ltb May, 1~ sec, 8.) Chambers 
T. Hodges, 28 Tex, 111. To this the having been of counsel w:1.11 made an additional dlsqualirlcetton, to take
part in the decision or & cause In the supreme court (act of December 16th, 1886, sec, 20); bnt the pro\"il!fnn w-:,s
not made, in terms, to apply to the distrfct court. Chambers Y. Hodzes, 28 Tex. 112. Ir the jurli;e wns inter­
ested, be was dlsquallflcd to give judgment bv eonfesslon, even where the defendant's attorney w11ln~,1 the
objection, and the judgment WILi! a nullity, ana the cause stood precisely M though no judgment hAd been 
rendered. Id. 
§ 1419. [161 When any judge is disqualified, the parties m11y, by
consent, choose ancl appoint some other person to try the cause, and t.lie acts
and decisions of such person so appointed, shall be as valid as if done by the
judge, 
§ 1420. (655) [17] It shall be the duty of the judges of each court to
cause the judgments, geniences, and decrees of the court to be carried into
execution agreeably to law. 
AN ACT GIVING CONCURRENT JURISDICTION TO TH)l: DISTRICT AND INFERIOR
COURTS IN CERTAIN CA.SES. 
§ 1421. (666) (l] In all cases where any part of a river, water-course,
highway, road, or street, shall be the boundary line between two counties,
the district and other inferior courts, judges, justices, and all district and
inferior officers, shall have concusreut jurisdiction in all cases, over the extent
of such parts of said river, water-course, highway, road, or street, which shall 
be the boundary of such district or county, to all intents and purposes, as if
such parts of said river, water-course, highway, road, or street, was within
the body of such district or county : Provided, however, that 110 person or
persons shall be twice punished for the same offense committed on any such
parts of a river, water-course, highway, road, or street, as aforesaid. 
§ 1422. [2] So much of any .\act or acts as conflicts with this act, shall
be and the same is hereby repealed. 
[ AN ACT TO A)[END THE FIRST SECTION OF " AN ACT TO REGULATE PRO­
CEEDINGS IN THE DISTRIO'l' COURTS." APPROVED MAY l 3TB, 1846. 
ABT. 1423. [1] That the first section of an act entitled" An act to regu­
late proceedings in district courts," approved May 13th, 1846, be so amended
as to read as follows :-( 1) No person who is an inhabitant of this state shall
be sued out of the county where he has his domicile, except in the following
cases, viz. :--1st. In case of married women, who must be sued in the county
where her husband has his domicile; 2d. In case the defendant is a transient
person, in which case he may be sued in whatever county he may be found ; 
ad. In cases where there may be two or more defendants residing in different
counties, in which cases the plaintifff may institute suit in any county where
any of such defendants may reside; 4th. In cases where a person has con­
tracted to perform an obligation in any particular county, in which case suit
may be instituted in that countr, or where the defendant bas his domicile;
5th. In cases of executors, administrators, or guardians of an estate, or trus­
tees, who must be sued in the county in which the estate is administered;
6th. In cases of fraud, and also in cases of defalcation of public officers, in
which cases suit may be instituted in the county where the fraud was com­
mitted, or where the defalcation occurred, or where the defendant has his
domicile ; 7th. Where the defendant has committed some crime, or offense,
or trespass, for which a civil action in damages may be commenced, in which
cases, suit may be instituted in the county where the crime or offense or tres­
pass was committed, or in the county where the defendant has his domicile; 
8th. In cases where the suit is for a slave, animal, or other movable property,
in which cases suit may be instituted in whatever county such property may 
be found, or where the defendant resides; 9th. In cases where the defendant
has inherited an estate, concerning which suit is commenced, i11 which case
suit may be instituted in the county where the estate principally lies; I Otb. 
In cases for the foreclosure of mortgages or lien, in which cases suit may he
instituted in the county where the mortgaged property, or property subject
to lien, or any part thereof, may be ; 11th. In cases where the recovery of
Iand, or damages thereto, is the object of a suit, in which cases suit must be
instituted where the land or a part thereof is situated.] 
533. The change from the sectlon thus substituted Is tho ad.lttton or" tl"('~pRIIB," In tho 7th cxceptlon ; nnd
aleo the omlsslnn or the pr<nJMO, In the same scctton, which Is supplied hy tho pl'nlll code. Al!,(, In tht> 10th 
exception, "or lien" ts addNl.-Eo. If tho defendant reside In tho county where the suit was brought when tho
petition WM flied. that, and not the rcstdence Rt the dnto or servlce, determtncs the Jur!S.,ictiun. Wbltinic v. 
Briscoe, Dallam, !"AO. The pteee where po.rtlc,i keep an 11!1•::nl bank, i11 tho eountv In whlcb to SUI'. Willl:ams v.
The Stat<-, 28 Tex, 278. A. man may have several rosklcncos. Wilson Y, Brldi.•man, 24 Tex. 617; Drown v. 
Bouldin, 18 Tex, 481. The d<'ft•n,lant should be able to point to his residence, by fncts i-,1 certaln nnd nctorious,
that the pluintllf, by ordinary dll~1mc<', can eertalnly know where to bring bis snit. Id, .An [nhabltunt an,I n 
rceltlent, moan the Mme thing. Id. 4.'J:3. And where u 1•:1rty h:15 had n permuneut residence In one county. ho
most have dfected a complete eharuro to another bl'for(' he can clnlm tt, ld. Ilnt the rll!ht to lw r,u,·11 In lits 
own county, Is a personal prtvllezo whl<'h the 1li·f,•nclnnt mny wnivo. Morrts v. Itnnnel«, 12 Tex, liT. A motlon
agninst II shE"riff' and his securitles mny be nu\111· (under tho 10th and 23tl socttous or the execution law of l!--1:.!) 
1~4.the county to which the execution 111 returnublo, not being an orlglDRI sutt, within tho meanl11~ of the fir11t
cbfuse or this section. Griswold, .. Chandler, 22 Tex, 689. And so we have decided In relation to eci. f,1. to 
revlllt' jnd![m<'nt&. Id. 640; Perktne v. llnme, 10 Tex, C>l. On demurrer, the t•n•,mrn11t1on wtll lx-, thut the plain­
llff stated the case in tho light most favorable to hlrns,·lt Rlct• v, Lemon. 16 Tex, u94. But an actlnu o( el,·bt 
upon a judgment, Wllll properly brought In thepmnty of tho clcrenrlant't1 r,·si,lenet•. Townsend v. :.,\mlth. 20 Tex, 
,io. Tne !\ct of residenee In a pnrucular county, 011:;:ht llot to be so uneertaln noel cqulvocal ; nor ou~ht th«
statute to be eo strictly construed, ns that the plaintifff shall bf> compelled, In a case rendered doubtful and nneer­ 
taln by the conduct of the de(l'ndnnt, to decide rightly. at hts peril. (Brown y. Boulden, HI Tex. 481.) Tucker 
T. Andereon, .A.usUn T. 2T T~ 281. Where the defendant had removed hla white family and some or bi,
bouso servanta, from Wharton to Comal county, In June, lSM, where they remained until October, 18158. tt 
authorized 11ult in Comal in February, 1858. Id. Whert! thi, defendant restded In • county, which bad been
oll[aJllzed, but never attached to a Judlcllil diatrlct. he might still be sued tn the mother county. Runge v. 
Wyatt., Austin T. 28th November, 1860. Where the platntUf Is a resident of the stato, he mny sue n non-resl­
dcn\ as a transient person, under the second exception. McMullen v. Guest, 6 Tex. 219. A. wngoner'11 obllgn­ 
tlon upon :l blll ot ladin~ is within the fourth ei:ception: and he may be sued In the county whl're the 11:()()(la
were to be dollvered, or In the county or hi.a residence, Barrow v. Pbllleo, 14 Tex. 846. He who pleads that his
c,ontraet la no\ within the fourth exception, must awE"ar JlOtlltlnly to the fnct8 or the plea, t'rom his own knowl­ 
edge, Wilson v. Adams, 16 Tex. 8W. The 4th eseepuon embraces sutts, at well for da.magea for the breach or 
II contract, M suits to enforce apecltlc performance. Dul'!lt v. Swilt, 11 Tex. 2iS.
The ~h exception waa to keep the transactions a11pcrtalnlng to estates ns little scattered as pou.lble. Id. 
Nor <lot's the Sth exception control the 6th. Rlchnrd11on v. Prewitt, 8 T<'x. 229. The common and 8pnnlah
Jaw n1le11 t\illy dlscuMCd, and tho history of the 11ubjeet given. Id. The plen. to the juri!!d!cUon may be by 
auorney. Id. 228. The dri;t exooptlon ntrords no 11J•cci!nl adnntage to plulntltre. Id. 282. But tho exceptions 
Are all lntl'ncled for thl• bt-ooftt of tho plaintifff'; ant It ts not so clcnr tbnt n dl'(endant, wh<'n au~d In his own
county, In hi11 lndlvidunl cho.rncter, c.an claim the C'Xeeption. Finch v. Edrnon90n, 9 Tex. 610. The aixtb ex·
ceritton makes no distinction between actual, {>(lsltlve !rand, and constructive rrnnd; any act which, In coutem­ 
platlon of la"·· constitutes a l'raud, will give Jurisdiction In th11 county whero lt waa oomrnltted. 8tanley v.
Weetrop, 16 ·rex. 200. Where the frand Is a1Iegt·d to oonislllt In lntenllon, and the quo animo 111 tho gist of 
the action, the lntc-nt must be averred; but when tho conclusion of rraud can be dra,vn from facts sp,·clnlly stnted,
the rrauclulent Intent nct'd not bo averred. (5 Cr. ~l: 3 Dall. 821, 823, n.) Carter v. Cart.er, 6 TE"x, 99. Where 
the lune as to the jurisdiction was submlttetl to the jury 11 lth the iMue Uf)Qn the morlte, nn,l the jury found ror
the plaintifff, upon the merits, the pre11umptlon Is that they nl~ round ror him upon the plea to the jaris­
dlctlon. Evo.n11 v. Miiis, 16 Tex. 19S. Tho IJialntlfr may amend so o.a to nver tho E>Xceptton which irtvee juris­
diction. Id. The fourth exception of the act of 1836 reud as rollows :-" 4th. In cases where the deteodant ha.s
conimlttt>d some crime or otfencc, ror which pro~ecutlon or civil action In damftftCtl mo.y bo commenced." Thie 
la nearry similar to tho Ttb exception or this fll'l!t section. Robertson v. Jo:phrolm. lS TeL 128.. It wna held
in lilies T. Knight (8 Tex. 811>) thn.t ~ acts complalnNt or must amount to a crime, to come within the excep­ 
tion; antl th11t a trespllS8 de boni~ aJtporlatu, -wfthout a breach or the peaoe, wa.11 not crime In lc1,ro.l contempla· 
&ion. or puolshafile aa such In !Aw. Id. Evans v. Mills, 16 Tex. 198. But see thii nmendment.-Eo. 
The legislaturo appl•ar to hnve l1nd In vil'W the Jcp:al prlndple that, for certain crimes, o. civil action may bo
m.ilnt:llned, either 1>.-roro or slmultnneoualy with a criminnl pro!!t'entlon; while ror others, no clvll nctlon can be
mo.lnt31ne<l until after the o.cquittnl or conviction or tho o!J'end~r. • • • This exception meant to lmllrnte and
Include that class of offt'IIC<'II In which the clvtl 11etlon la not merged hy the crlml' against the p11bllc. Illies v. 
Knight, 8 TeL 314. "Crim6 or offense,. nrc t1ynonymona tcrma, l'Xprcssivo or ditforeot degrl'l'8 uf crime. Id.
Tho putltlon must chnrge tho '1£•fcndnnt with an lndlctnbitl act. Id. The IDl•ro conclusion, ":1:;uinst th,• pence," 
.to., ls not aufliclent. 111. A suit to enforcu a vendor's lien is not within the ton th exC<'ptlon. Coll'ee v. Haynes,
2-& 'fcL 1111. But mny It not oo under the amE-ndment.P Tho pico. that th<' law! sued for is not in tho county 
wht·re the suit WWI brought. la o. matter merely tn o.b:i.teml'nt, anti must be plc1ld before a plea to tho merita.
Byan v. Jackt10n. 11 Tex. 400. Such a pie:,., to be 11:ood under tho la.st clause of tho t,,nth e.11:ceJ>tion, mnst deny
that any pnrt of the lnncl Ii:, sltaatoo In the county wh,·rc the <l<'fcn,ln.nt I!! sued. Id. Where the suit Is to fore­
close n mort~e on land, It may bo brou~ht In the coullty wheu tho land is sltuntedl.. or 111 thu county or the
derendant's r~sldenoe. Klnooy v. MeCleod, 9 Tex. 79. Thia ac,ctlon cxpll\lned. Id. .Hot in an uction of d,·bt
upon n jnd!OU .. nt. the defendant ts properly sue,l In the county of his residencl', Town~nd v. 5mlth, 20 Tl·X. 470. 
"11ie cffe<:tof tho declsloneln Finch v. Edmoown, and :Morris v. Ronnel8, wns to restrict the 11th l'Xc1•pt1,,11 to
coaes where soib Wt'ro properly ror the recovery or lnml1 '' or duWAgi.'!! thereto," ancl did not cmhrnc<' cnses, the
primary object or which was the rcclslon of contrnct.s ror tbE' 1mlA of lnnda. Ile:m1t v. Kuykcudall, 16Tcx. 880.
A anlt to cancel• conveyance to lnnd, held In trust for tlie plalntitf, is not a suit for Jund, an<i it m11y be brought 
ln the county of the dercndant'a rcsldenCf'. Vnndever v. l<'reemun, 20 Tex. 886. But the 11th exct·ptlon Is
reconcilable with tho l>th, and the n.dmlnlstrator miut bo sued In the county ,..h,·ro the succe!!b1uu Is p.•nrllnJ?, ror
epeeUlo performance. Neill v. Owen, 8 Tex. 146. Approved. Finch v. Edmonson, 9 Tex. 510. The 11th section 
a_vplles to ail cases of suit to bo brought, not berore pruvlded for In previous parts of tlrn section. Neill v.
Owen, 8 Tex. 14T. A suit ro.· specific performance on • contract to convey lane!, or for dnm:i.gea for Its brvach,
111 not within thl' 11th exc.epti.,n. Mlller v. Rusk, lT Tex. 112. Nor tor the rcclsion of such a contract. (Mor­ 
ris T, Runnels, 12 Tex. 175.) IJ.; Finch v. Edmonson, 9 Tex. 610. The 11th exception, in the 6th IIWICtlon
of the act or 1886, read, •• fn caac where land la the object or the au.it." . Hearst T. Kuykendall, 16 Ttix. 828. 
And where the suit w111 to cancel an executor'• contract, and recover the land, It WM within the exception.
McKenllie v. Hamilton, Dallam, 468. Taking tho enacUng elanae and the exception together, It means, that tt 11 
the privilege of the defendant to be 1ued lo the coun~y of hts domlcll~; but, where land is tho object of the suit,
It may give JurlAdlctlon. Heant v. Kuykendall, 16Tex. 823. Thlts section ls, in effect, the same 11.11 the 11th
above. Id. The exception meana, an action of «-Jectment., trespass to try title, or a suit to rccov('.r the hmd 
luielt Id.. Not a suit ror apeeUlc performance. Ia. Where II O<Jte was &1ven fur the sale or land to eff',·i:t a
putttton, the belra may eue the maker and commts,toner, aa the <·qnlt.nblc owners. Wattsv. Robson, 6 Tex. 
906. to8. Thia wua the 8th eectlon of the act of 1886; ancl the phlotl!J nel'<I only aver 1obst.antlu.lly thti facto;
and hla misnaming ln1trument1 ta of no consequence. llamllton v. Ulack, D111law, l>ST. 
e1l'ect 
eommenoed 
§ 1424. (668) [2] No civil suit shall be instituted, nor shall any
process be had in any suit, on Sundays, except in cases of attachment or
sequestration. 
5 84. The word "bid" 11 In the enrolled copy, but "eened." or "leaned." only makes IOIIM; and tt wu 
IO held by Judge Thomae H. Duval, In Bean v. De Cordova, In the United Statee dlltrict conrt..-ED. 
§ 1425. (669) (31 All civil suits in the district court shall be com­
menced by petition filed m the office of the clerk of the district court. 
§ 1426. (670) [ 4J No person shall be sued as an indorser, as guarantor,
or as security, unless suit shall have been, or is simultaneously commenced
against the principal, except in cases where the principal resides beyond the
limits of the state, or in a county that is not organized, or where he is
insolvent. 
585. The obJectfon ahonld be taken by pl• In abatement. The 'DN>Oledlng, by rule, a,ralnst the sheriff
and his aureUea, 111 11 suit within the pumew ot this section. Poer v. :Brown, 2' TeL BT. Sections 4, 4.5, and 
46, compared. Oampbell v. Beckwith, lT TeL 440. A Judgment aplnat the lndonen, without any action
apln11t the principal, 11 erroneous. Campbell v. Beckwith, 1T Tex. 440. Where the principal ha,I died, the 
surety may be sued In the ftrst instance. (Soott v. Dewees, i Tu. IM.) Ennis v. Crump, e Tex. 89. The 111~
801'11 of the deoeued principal, need not be fl.rat aued. Soott v. Dewees, 2 Tex. 1M. The insolvency ol the
maker, wu a sufficient exeUlle tor not having Ant or atmnltaneously sued him. Grayson v. Taylor, 14 Tex. 6'ffi. Olle 
ot the aeven.l makel'II of a note, cannot plead that he 111 a aurety, ror the purpose or brfoglng In the alle,red prin­ 
cipal, or preventing II diaoonttnuance u to him. Lewie v. Riggs. 9 Tex. lk Ritter v. Hamllton, 4 l'ex. 823
and 8 Tex. and Smith v. Doak, 8 Tex. 21r,, reviewed and reconclhld. Id. 165. Tho secondary llablllLy must 
&ppeAr In the oontract. Ritter v. Hamilton, 4 Tex.4J21; Ennis v. Orump, 6 Tex. 89. But p,.rol nlrlence la 
ailmlulble to ahow that one waa aued as BeCurlty, or that the note 1"8defivt!I'ed as an eacrow. Smith v. Doak, 
8TeL 91.IS. The plaintifff cannot discontinue u to one of the makers, when there fa 110 tndorser or guarantor
on the note, unle11 saeb party fa within one ot the 1t.atutor"y exeeptlons, (Look v. Henderaon, f Tex. 803.) 
Moore v. Jone&, 6 Tex. 2ta. The plalntttf may be aued In the count\or either the drawer or iJldoraer; but not
to abuae the privilege by a flctlttoua lndoraement. (Pool v, Plotet 8 Tex. 121.) Raymond v. Holmes, 11 Tez. 
M. Where a party had lndoned a note at the time or lta tnoepttoo, ut WU proven to be onl7 a 1urety. and ""u
sued with the maker, and there were various eff'orta to obtain ae"tce betoro It wu etl'ected, the lndoner wu 
not dllCbarired. Cook v. Southwick, 9 Tex. 619. The statute regul"te11 the remedy, not the right. Peuy v.
Cleveland, 9 Tex. f06. Uthe eurety claims that the principal Is within the Jurladictton, he ehould prove It 
affirmatively. Id. lt the surety rellea upon limitation, be must plead It. lil. It the UBlgnment wa.a bOll4
jlda, and to secure a debt, the maker cannot maintain that It la flotit1oua, and a traud upon t.he Ju.rtadlctfon, IO 
u to sue him out of hie county. Ohriatle v. Gunter, Tyler T. Ile Tex. 'f()'j. Thia eeotlon wu copied from 
the act ot t2d December, 188e, with the addition, "or In a county," &o. Binge v. Smith. Dallam, 617. It 11 
compared with the drat section ot the a.ct ot 9:Sth January, 1840, about bills, notes, &o. The coo.rt here aettlea 
tt, at a matter of praotlcel that the drawer and lndorser ot II promluory note, bill ot e:s:cba.nge, check, draft. or
oth"r meroanttle negotlab e inatrument, imy an1l 1bould be Joined ln ihe aame .oUon, lt both be eued rimulta 
MOmlf. Id. 
THE PLEADINGS. 
§ 1427. (671) rs] The petition may be filed by the plaintifff or attor­
ney, and shall set fortii clearly the names of the parties and their residence, if
known, with a full and clear statement of the cause of action, and such other
allegations, pertinent to the cause, as he may deem necessary to sustain the snit,
and also a full statement of the nature of the reliif he requests of the court. 
588. The petition 11 without dlatinctlon as to law or equity; Smith v. Clopton, 4 Tex. 11'. Married women
are competent to appear In the tribunals && llttpnta; and the courts apply to them the 11me l'Qlea aa to other Utl­ 
ganta. Baxter v. Dear, 24 Tex. 21. Where the wife 11 sued tor a debt contracted before marrtage, the hue band should
be Joined pro formd. N aah v. George, e Tex. 281. In umr•fact<u to revive a judgment of torecloaure, which had 
been rendered agaln11t the husband and wife (the au8band having died), tho wife wu a necesaary party, (Austin v.
:Reynolds, 18 Tex. M6.) Id. But the wife ooold not be beard, to go behind the jndgment o( t'oreolot1ure., and 
plead that the property waa her homeatead. She abould have done thla In the first 11ult. Id. !18. A «!Wefawu
to revive a .Judgment, mal!t follow tho Judgment, aa to parties, joining all the orfainal partiea or their repreaeuta­
Uvee. (Patton v. Hali, 2 Salk. 008; M.ltobell v, Smith, l Litt. k8; Wllllam1 v. }'owler, 8 Monr. 818; Coleman v.
Edward!\ 2 Bibb, 6115.) Auatlo v. Reynolds, 18 TeL M6. Same cue aftlrmed, Cal'llon v. Moore, 28 Tex. '61;
Henderson v. V 1mhook, 'M Tex. BM. Oo.r atatute autborlzea a plalntur In a dormant Judgment to revive by tolr• 
facia&, or to bring an ar•lon ot debt on bis Judgment. Canon v. Moore, 28 Tex. 460; ~Ultin v. Reynolds, 18
Tex. 541. In the iruU, It 'a not necessary to Join all tho parties to the dormant Judgment. Id. Ooe tenant In 
common may maintain ar sctlon or tre11pass to try title, wfthout joining hla co-teoant. (Watro111 v. McGrew. 16 
Tex. 006; Crof't v. Rslos, 10 Tex. &20; 4 Kout'a Com. 868.) May v. Sladti, 24 TeL 207. Tenant& In common, muai 
join in the action or trespBl!s quar, clamumfr"17it. (Austin v. Hall, 18 Johna. 286; Decker v. Livingston, 16
ld. 479; Mnrrny v. Webster, I> N. llnmp. 891.) Id. 208. It the defect or parties be apparent on the tace ot the 
1)6tltlon, It may be reached by demurrer; otherwise, by plea In abatement, or tbe apportionment of damages a& 
the trial. Id. If one who bas a good cause or action Join In treapasa quare claumm /r~U, with one who 
bu no cause of action, the suit cannot be 11111tained. (Murray v. Webster, r, N. Hamp. 391.) Id. The huabud
may JUllintaln an action to recover posseaslon of a note payable to bis wife, without Joining the ,.,1te. Clay v. 
Power, 24 Tex. 804. And It' the oote be gtve11 by the husband and wife for a community debt, the wife ahoold
not be jolnt>d. And It tor her separate dt1bt, the ae"lce should be 11eparatcly upon her. Shelby.,,-, Perrin, 18 Tex.
Gl7. AD D,l(ent, acting under a ;:iower ot attorney, cannot maintain an action In hie O'l\'n name to recover land,
cloor the title, or to remove lncumbrancea, even though he DlllY have caused the lnoumbrlll!ces himself. l:obson 
v. Tait, 18 Tex. 273. A person who sued u next t'rlend, and recoverod Judgment., In MIMlsslp1ll, lllt\y mnintain
an action In bis own name In this 11tato. Cook v. Thomhlll, 18 Tox. 297. An Infant may sue by a next friend, 
even where he has a ~ardlao, if the guardian doea not dissent, rails to do hie duty, or Is oat ot tbt' at:atc. Robson
v. Osborn, 18 Tex. 2!1!1, 800. In a suit to ad aside a traoduleut conveyance, the vendor may bo mad.o a party, and 
ls Jlahh1 for co11ts. Birdwell v. Butler, 18 .Tex. 840. A.II penion1 materially interested In the eub.1ect-maLter or 
object of the suit, should be madt> plil'tlO!I. (Oalvert on Plll'tlea, chap. 1, § 1. p. 11; Story's E<t. PL !I 76. a.) Balley
v. Morsrao. 13 TeL 84-'3. But this is subject to the exception, that unknown pnrttes, &c. (u stated In Story's Eq. 
Pl. §5 71, 78! ml\y be omlttell. Id. And for other exceptlona, see Burleson v. Burleaon, Ui Tex. 424; Le2-g v. 
McNdll, 2 'lex. 429. All parties in lnt~rest, to be alfeoted In any way l,v the decree or Juckment M>ught, If 
known. ought to he mndo pnrtie~ derl•ndanta or plalntHf11 in the autt. D<'nlson v. League, 16 Tex. <40S; Allison
v. Shlllln~. 27 Tex. 47:i, And this is ao in ·I\ mandam1" suit. (Smith v, Power, 2 Tex. GS; CommlS6lond 
v. Smith, 6 Tex. 471; Bracken v. Well!!, 8 Tex. 88.) Watkins v. Klrcboin, 10 Tex. 881. A.a the truatee \':I • 
deed w aeoure a debt. Shelby v. Burtis, 18 Tex. 648. The objection that he la not, should be taken In Lu 
alltrlot eoart. Id. And whm, the 1alt 'll'IUI to recover-111A1p1 tract of land, to cancel tho deorendant'1 t1tlee. &e., ft
wu held, that all the defendanta, upon tho land, thouzh holdlnac by dUferent title&, were properly Jotned., and
tbo allowing a severance WIIS Improper. Chambers v. Fisk. 15 Tex. 841. 
The Improper jolndtr of parttes, la not a IO'"and for dlsmlssal or tho ,mlt a!I to tboee properly sued, (John·
eon v. Davts, T Tex. 11-1.) Emmons v. Oldham, 12 Tex, 26. The suit should be cl111ml18t'd as to those Improperly 
jolnrt1, at the cost or the J1lalntltr. Joh Mon v. Devls, 1 Tel'. 115. A rorcl~n eorporallon may maintain a snit.
The &nk v. Simonton, 2 Tt'X. Ml. Bat the act or incorporation should be averred and proved. Id. This section 
d<X.'B not pretend to prescribe who 11h111l he made parttes, J:ick11on v. Aluunder, 8 Tex. 112. A dormant partner,
nc,t privy to the contract, need not be Joined. (Speake v. Prewitt, 6 Tex. 256.) 1<1. Where one hu no Interest 
to be aff'cetf'd by the lltliratlon, and no r<'ooverv or I\ j ml~f>nt Is IIODJ;:"bt ~raln11t hlrn, It 111 Improper to make him
a party. Bowers "· Chaney, !l Tex, 361; Lacour v. Ch111,1111an, 2:, Tex. 90. Where suit Is hrought 
tn the name or a nominal, to the use or a real party, It mny be cbanir,·d to tho use or the real party.
lleard "· Lockett, 20 Tex. 1G8. Such nominal party baa no tntcn-et In the 11nlt. Mcl<'a.dln v. MoOrP.al, ~ 
Tex. i9. Hut where the real party ls Introduced (as an tntervenor. with the consent of the ftret plldntlf). the
defcnt!Ant, who has nut llll8Wl'rcd, should have notice u! I.he Intention. (Price v, Wiley, 19 Tex. 142; M'llF .. lln 
T, McGreal, ~ Tex. iS-80. Bryan "· Lund, 21} Tex. 98.
The ~gnee ot the vestry ot a church, may m:ilnt&ln an action In hi!! own name, on a subsertptlon to do­ 
nate for building h<'lng binding. Iloi,ldns v. Upshur, 20 Tex. 89. The authorities exhausted In this cue. Id. 
Where a suit may be maintained In the personal right orthe party, the addlttcn, .. adwlntstrator," 11 merely per­
.anaL Where the suit could only be In bis repreeentattve character, It should declare "as adrnlnl&trutor." Hall
v. Poarruon, 20 TeL 171. A negro woman and her children, tnrllllts or adulta, may Join In an actlon for their 
frMdom. Moore v. M.lnerva, tr Tex. 28; Moore v. Fnuicls Id. 29.
Where tbc suit ls tor a epeclflo performance by I.he bolder of a bond payable to another, and there was no 
aestgnrnt>Dt to the plalntltf, tho orlgtnal obllgee ought to be joined. (Story's Eq. PL I 168.) Allleon "· Shll·
llns. Galveaton-Au11tln T. 21 Tex. 4.68. Bnt whore the uat,plment ot a t.ltle bond la absolnu-. Md its validity 
not doubted, the orbrlnal obltire& need not be made a party, Dnd • oom,.,..,, {Stnry'I Eq. PL f lM..) Id. 'nle
repre sontatlve of a deeessed wife need not be jolne<l. In a 1ult n,rainet the fiuaband to anbjeet the community 
property to I\ community debt; bnt such may be joined. Jonce v. Jones, I:"> Tex, 14$. The same Is the role ae to
the representettve of II partner or Joint obltgor, H<'nderson T. Kl884m, 8 Tex, M. Where Uu1 plalntilf averred, 
tlmt. n!l n.hnintstrator, he recovered a judgment agah"l'!it the detenclnnt In tho eblte of Geor,rla. the words "aa
admlntstrntor " may he rej;,etecl as l!nrplnsage; stnoo In wbatovt>r character he recovered the judi,ttnl'nt, the lt•l,l'&l
rltlc h 111 tho plaintifff. anti he h:1.11 the rl,rht to sue In bis own name. (Gnyle v. Ennis, 1 Tex. 18'; Llpecnmb v. 
Ward, :! Tex. 277; Clalt.•1rne v. Yoeman, 1~ Tex. 4.) Nelson v. Bagby, 25 Tex. Supp. 8GG. Where the
J11'Upt·rt r hn~ ('ll1'>'t-tl from the po1111t>sslon of th~ dllCff.lled to hla representative, the plalntUf may elect to eue 
.illm llS tmrb. or In hi& Individual chl\l'IICter. (Brl'wer v. Strong, 10 Ala. N. S. 961; Cattlete v, Roaael, 8 Leigh,
137.) l!ul,hlns v. \Valwrs, 2 Tex, 187. A private corporation may be sued by one of lta own members. (6 
Atlol ph. & 1,:rn,., ~\j-;; Plerce v. Partridge, 8 B. & Adolph, 12:>; 2 B"y, 109; 8 Meter. 44; Angell & Ames on Corp.
1390.) n,·nd<·rrnn v, l~llroad Co. 11 Tex. 672. Where un admtnletrator had pledi,re1l a watch tor money • ..1111d 
dll·d. tb,· hdrs of the nrst decedent were not the proper partleii, bnt the admlnl11tmtor d• l>on{• non. Eva1,a v.
0.1kl~·r, 2 T,·x. 1~2. The rule Ill not anlvereal, that the heirs may not sue without the tott-rVl'ntlon of "clmlnla, 
tr1•tA•r"- 1,1. Al common !11w, the husband l!l a neceaeary p11rty In an action for slandt'r,11.11 well 111 all tort&. by
the wif,•. (1 Cb. Pl. !12; 2 Kent, 149; llanka v. Harman. 6 Binn. 48..) And 1bema7 be 1ued alone In 1ueh a cnao 
(sl:1.nt!cr:,. masbrouck v. \\\'3\'t-r. 10 ,John~ 241.) M~oeen T, J'utgham, AU8tln:-GalY. T. 91 Tex. 481. The
bm,1111:1<1 114 :i n,·c ·,;~ ,rv p:1rty in Tcx:1.,., I,I. Hut the, mere charge of want of chaatltf, without an averment
of:1ou1,• j,ecu:1bn· tlam·,g,•, h,,wurnr ;,1!:::ht. Is n,,t n• •t!onnble. (Linney v. Matun, 1811•1. 449; 8fileld v. Cnn· 
nlni:h:rn1. I lllad,r. 1-1i; William v. U!II, 19 W,•ncl. l:lu~; Bradt v. To~-nley, 18 Wend. ~">8.) ld. And, In inch a 
CAiie, tr tb,•r,· be no J•ruof of ~Jli:dal ,lumai,r<>, 11 new trial will be granted. Id. Th4\ ~enl'ral rule u to trust prop­
erty. In 1lllits t,n.,u::ht l'i h,·r by or ~:tlnllt the trnstc•t>ll, Is that the trustt>ea and beneftciarfes ehonld all be made
parties. (Story·~ 1-:q. 1'1. § :.'9T.) Ifall v, 11"rrfs, 11 Te:t. 808. Where C. and wife had conveyt-d their bome­
ete:ld, which II cr<>dltor ufti·rwl\l'cls sole! Dnd purch11:1ecl; and commenced suit against the simulated veudec, al­
lt'ginq !hut ho h,·ld in tll'Cr<'t tr1111t for the l'Xecntlon clcbtor, 0. and wife wi,re not DeecMBry parties. Cox v. 
Shroµshlrc, Uslv. 1'. ~ Tex. 12-1. Tht' vrncl,,r o( a void tlut>d, In inch an action, ls not a Deet>n&ry party. Id.
All the conspirators In a fraudnlent 11heriff"11 l!lllt', mAl be joined, and the pctltlon t'rnmt>d with the double 
upect, ot eetttng 11><1dl' tl1e SAi<.<. or l'OOQVerlng damageL Teas v. McDonaM, 18 Tex. 3.'13. Where tht-rtl arejotnt
mo~ore, a Ju,lgmcnt or for1>closuro may be had !Ml to ont>, wit.bout maklusr the executor of tho other a Jllll'ty. 
(Marttn v. Harrison, 2 Tex. 4M.) Wiley v. Pinson, 28 Tex. 49',. It la no ol>jt>ctlon to partfos, that they have
dttrer.int charact~r8 of title In the estate. Faulk v. Jo'nnlk, 28 Tex. 668. Whorl.' pnrt or the Mlcurltle8 al'tl tlead, 
o&hel'I may be 8Ued without ru:1kl,n1t tho reprcs..intatlVl'll parttee. Walkerv. Collins, 22 TeL 192.. Where one
person makes a promise to anotht'r, for the bcneftt ot a third person, that third IH.'r&on mnv matntaln an action
upon 11uch pr,1mlse In his own nruue. (Seh"merhom v. Vanderheyden, 1 Johns. 189.) McOJwn v. Schrimpf, 21 
Tex. 27. As where a party cov,•nantll to clear olr all mort1mgc11 on a I.met or land, nnr, mortim;,_:ee may sue, him.
Id. Neither an lcllot nor a lunatic can be a party to D suit. Pt•lham v. Moore, 21 fex. 756. The fraudulent
Yeindee or a 1lefeon,lant may oo made a partl p,rndlog the 11ult. (011\'er v. (,,'hapman, 1:i Tex. 400: McAneliy ,·. 
Chap111an, ts Tux. 19S.) O,atft v. Elliott, 23 fllx. 610. An nctlng executor and tt'.'!tamentary guardian or a wlll,
most be tn:ule II p:,rty to a snit to annul a will. Moore v. Guest, 8 Tex. 119. And tr he be not. ht! may pro11c­
eute error and annul tbt! ju,1:tm<·nt. 1,1. If there was a t'rnucluleut combination, betweon the plaintifff' and a
thlrd person. to pro~,·cute tht· suit In the nDine of the plalntl~ the rooo,ery to Inure to the> bcneih ot the third 
pcr,iuu, Ule deft>ndant mav allt·g,• :md pron, thll fr.ct. without making the Intended beneficiary aJiarty. Bally 
T. Trammell 27 T .. L :rib. an,! tbt> acts 11nd ,kclaratlons ot the beneftclary mlly be av1irrc, and proved.
Bat tr b,• oo ma.le n Jlllrty, th(• rnlt>s as to rrlmary and secondary evidence must oo ol.eervtlll. Id. A defendant 
le not authorized to make a party plalntllf in a cau~. Id. Ir tllo proper plalntllT!! are not jolnl>d. the defendant
may tak1· ad,·,mtaie or It Ly 11lon, nnd compel the julnder, or a cllsmiN&l, or, In sorn<1 cases, he may lakti odnn­
tagt' or the want ur p11rtl<'S on the trial. Id. If the det'en<iMt wish to bring other pnrlles Into tho CMt>, be may 
do IIO by Cr'O!!!I ,;nit a;::1inst tbc plnintUf 11nt! 1mcb pcr11ons, bnt thl'n, In thl11 part or the litigation. the ori!(innl
!kfllndant ht't'Omei, the Rl'tor. wlrh all the rli:hts 1mcl responsibilities ot' the 11laintUt whllt•. as to that, the orii:I· 
nal plalotltl' has those or ,lefend:uiL ltl It i~ the right or the deft>n,l1111t to compel thu 11lal11tltr to istatc liis
rt'lli<l(•nce. Glltfart ,·. Gn1111hlc11, 2'l Tex. 16. Where the defenclant Is a trnnsit,nt person. It II\ cnnnl[h It tb:it fact
~ !'nhst:mtl:illy avl'm•,I, without Btatlni;r the reslch'llce. Bnkt>r v. Woffonl, 4 T(•X. 1~ "The petition or ,J. W. 
W. & t"o. a rncrcnntilt• firm or tht• stat,• 11111! city of New York, co1111K1:<eil of tlw !ull,,wlnit yen<t•ns:-.T. W. W,
& ,J. K." From thh1 It may be lnferretl that the plulnttlfs re11ld,·d in the city and statl• of Nt-w Yurt, thoui:h It 
doa111ot follow, ncct·&.'lllrlly, that tht>y both ,lid. Whitlock v. C1u;tro, 2:.! 1't x. 11:A ... Thie 11al,l lll1•Jlll) bank hn\·lng
and kt•f,plng nn oftlee in thti city of G. In th<! E.'\ld county of 0." Is eutHclent av(•rment of r1:11!dencll In that
connty. \Vllll:uns v. The 8tAtll, 28 Tex. 27S. "The state of Texas, eounty or D.-th:it pl11intllf 11111 re11lclt>nt or
•Ml county or H. and deten<iRnt Is n resident ot the county and state jlrd aforesaid," le suftlcl<'nt. Eakins v. 
aroeitlbeck, 94 Tex. 179. ..Or tho county or J." anne:oced to his name, la a11Ufflchmt averment of n·sldt>nce. War­
~viJalley, T Tex. 619. Tbl&t th• plaintifff la a reeldent ut the atate of T. le allfflclent.. Harpw v. Nichol, 18 
6 37. The Clt.8Cll or ,Jennln~ T. Moes (4 Tex. 4M), Frazfor v. Todd (Id. 461), and llf>veral Inter caees decided 
bT this conrt, announced the plain and element,,g rule, tb11t the plaintifff most show to the court a good can~ 
of action, by upproprlst.• averml'tltll In tht1pt'tltluo,ofthe fncte which constitute the cause or action in the elven
caee, and not ml'r<'ly the evidt-n~ or concluslona derived t'rom the evidence. Gruy v. Osborne, 2-1 Tn. 1~;
8ni,ed T. Mood!"' ld. 160, Thus, in a 1ult on a no~. the petition must aver that the d,·ft·nd11nt made and
dellvered or execnttid the nott!. Itl. It le not enonicfi to avt!1· that the pialutltf Is tht' owner of the uote. It must
allo appear, that tho defendant Is liable npon it. Jennln~ v. Mo115, 4 'l'ex. 4M; Koss v. Breeding, 18 Tt>x. tT; 
J'ortn11e v. Kerr, 96 Tex. Su)'p. 309. And I.he dt'fect may be rencbed by irenen1l demurrer. J,'rnder v. Todd, 4
Tes. 48ll. So In a snit llglllnet a woman upon a note; It oul[bt to bu stated whether she w1111110la or an;art at tho
esecntlon, ao as t,1 frume the Jndirment anlnst her sep11rat,• pN>perty only, It she was a fd1Tla cor,ert. Ph<'lpe v. 
Brackett, U Tex. 286. ..That the Mid T. execated hie note In writing, el![ned by hlmeel~ In subet1111ce aa fol­
lmn :·'-{;rlvtnir a copy which was payable to the pll\lntlff), the petlllen statf'B no cause ot nctlon. (,Jf'nnin~ 
Y. !dou, 4.TeL 4M; hazier v. Todd, Id. 461; Malone v. Crnlg, 22 Tex. 609.) Thiirpf>n v. Mundine. ~4 Tex. 283.
It mnet be 1hown to ,maom the note wu t'secuted and dellvoN<I. Malone v. Craill, 22 Tex. 610. The petition
,hows tbat the detenil1mt Jll611" and execnwtl thfl note; thl11 luiports a delivery. Blount Y. Ralston, 20 Tex. ls.&. 
Th8'1)1alntltl"s cause or action moat be stated by dilltlnct avcnnent.. 110<1 not leave It to the conrt to deduce the
[• Mut1t be de~crlptlve nnd state value. Forbes v. Moore, 32 Tex. 107, 108. Execution and delivery, 
Jlelcher v. Wllsoo, 31 Tex. 139. Rcpresontatlvos. Beal v. Batte, 31 Tex. 371; Colbortson T. Beeson, 
JV '!'ex. 76.] 
fi!~11~~~cc,~~~.~:~:::tf t::.~~~ !~~~m~~!t~~ !~tW1~~·r.,rr:·x~:~i0e;;; ~~t: ~~x.t:~0-w!a~t~!~ i~~.~;11~ 
of a sluvo, the petttlon ncerl not srnt,• the name or tho'.lis<'ase. It' It &tate the symptoms. and t1ay that the plain·
tiff docs not know the uamo, Hlvth« v. Sp .. ake, 28 Tex. 4~6. In II snit by a private corporation. t'oref~n <•r 
donn-stl«, It must aver 01111 prove It;, corporate existence. (Tho Bank v. Simonton, II Tex, 631.) Hollowxy v.
~fomphls, Kl. P. & P. I~. I'- Co. 2-':I T .. x, 467. Tho note b,•mg payahlo to the corporation, ,loe" 11ot admit \ta 
leeal (•xl,t<>nc<.>. Id. The n,,te suould be descrlbed by Its tenor or in h,rc nerba; or made a part or the petttton.
Bledsoe v, Wlllt1, 22 'I'ex, 65t; Dewees v, Lockhart. 11\•x. ~1i. ln 1rnlni,r to foreclose a mor~e, t be deed
should be de~,·rltlt'd. IJ. In a suit for spocitlc performance, If tho title bond reette the payment ot' the pnr­
chaee money, no special avcrruent of It need be made. Younger ,·.Welch,~ Tex. 428. And see Van Norman
v. Wh<'ei<'r, 13 T,•x. 3LS; ,Jon<'& v. llolli<\lly, 11 Th\. 41:'>. 
And if the contract for pllyment be Inrlependent, and the def<>nrlant M?<>k to avold a 11peclftc performance. be
should aver an<l' prove such fat·t., ll8 11how tho dr-pendenee, and tho iniquity of enforcing t'be contmet. 'UJunger 
v. W elch, 2'i Tex, 42."i. Contracts under seal Import a constderntton, ,Jones v. Holliday, 11 Tex. 416. Not BO 
parol contracts, except blll!i and notes, M. But If there be no conslderation named In the title bond, one
must be averred and proved, Hall Y. Yorli:, 2'l T1,x. 643. An avorment that the defendant execute« a note, sud 
il~~ ~.mu1,:~·g~ ~?c::~~~ t1cje~!~:!i!~j:1~~~tfsn~t1l{c1:~~:~t1~,;l1~~~·(;\~:~:~~\:::e0~ofei:ee::1h~1:r~tla:~~
gvnernl ilcmurrer. (Stll('s v. Gi,i<l\Tlgs, 21 Tex. i~.) B111ck v. Drury, 24 Tex. 298. The statement tn a legal 
and logical manner or the facta which constttute the rla\ntlfl"'s l'&U!I<.• of nction, or the dt'fen<lanfs ground o( 
defense, or the written statement or those facts intt-nd,·• to be relied on 1111 the support or defense ot' the ~1'
In l'V\,lenc<'. Mims v. hlitch<.>11, 1 Tex, 44i; Caldw ... ll v, Hnley, 8 Tex. 81~; Wrli;ht v. Wright., Id. l&J; (:&rter 
v. Wullnl'e, 2 Tex. 2()8. The contract muet be correctly, fulfY, and distinctly descrtbed ; and tr the erlden~
differ from the statement, tho variance Is fatal. Gnmmaze v . .A.l<.>xander, 14 Tex. 41S. That \11, the tenor of the 
contract, 811 !,l,-tt v. Kerr, 12 Tex. 369. If it aver that It was agreed to manufacture certain artteles at a ~enaln
r.rke, proof of manufaeturo nod a qnanrnm meruit, ss to price, Is n futal vartance. Gammage v. Alexander, 1, 
I'ex, 4lti. If It nver that the note was duo" when thereunto 11lforwar,is requested," when it was doe two years
from date, tlw variance is fatal. Hunt v, Wright., 18 Tex, Mil. The mtsdescrtpuon must be material, and ealea­
late1l to mlsle1«!. (Walters v. :'\Ince, IS Eng. C. L. 149: F.,lwnrds v. Cl<.>mons, ~4 W,•n<l. 480; Potter v. Hopklng,
2:1 Went!.+· East lloston Timber Co. v. Persons, 2 Hill, l:tO; Bower v. Ari:ali-, 2 Wend. ll02.) McClrlland v,
Smith, 8 ex. 212, 213. And an swrment that the articl<'s W<'re manufactur.-d by agreement and delivered, la
not impportt>tl by proof th11t they w,•re re11dy wht>n <'tille•I for, and hn<l be~n N>ady ev(·r Bl.nee, anle88 they ,veN 
ar<'l'ptt-d and 8et 11s\fle at the reqn,•st of the dt>f,·n<\ant. (:::ltory on Sal .. s, S 316; Story on Contract&. 5 818·
Vbitty on Contracts, 318 to ~l: 2 Kt•nt, 504, notti <', and cases by them reviewet1.) Gammage v. Alexander, 14 
Tex. 421. "A. B." who Sill'& for the use of" C. D.'' Is a izoo<l petition. T11rncr v. nro•>k!!, 6 Tex. ~
Where thl' mnker of a n<>te bod ad,lcd to his nnmo .. exc>l'ntor ot' S. P.," the adrlltion need not be noticed In 
doclnrlng. )fcKlnney v. Peters, Dlllh1m, 64.'i. Th<' alle,qa.t<1 and probata must ngrt'O; the a,·ennentA mnat M
ao m1lllc ns to let in the apprnprlut<.> h•stlmony. lfosehorongh v. Gormrrn, 6 T<.>x. ::lt.t: Towner v. Sayre, 4 Tex. 
80, 81; Ynun;r v. L<>wl11, 9 Tex. T7; ~llms v. Mltchl'II, 1 Te:t. 44:l; CoJc,s v. Kelsey, 2 Tex. Mt; Hall v. ,Jneltaon.,
8 Tex. 80!) to :311. An<l II varlan<'<' whl<·h surprl~rs the opposite party, Is fntal. Burnett v. Honderaon, 21 Tex. 
689; l1l•nlson v. J,....-ng111>. 16 Tex. 40S. E,;cry blil must contain, in it1wl!, 11utllct>nt mattt•r of fact.,~,. ,e, to maln­
ta\u tlw c:i~e of the plnlntltT. (11:trril'OII v. Nh:ou. 3 P,•t. 48:J.) Hall v. J&ck!IOD, 8 Tex. 30'J. And tb(I decree
cannot bl' r,•n,ll'red upon facts not 11nrrerl In the 11rtltlo11, llnll v. Jackson, l3 Tex. 810. But the mlsnnmln{l or
mlsdesrrlpt ion ofan \n~1111ml'nt, Is no irro111ul of \·arbnce, If I\ correct copy t>t, nnnexod to nnd rl't'l'rred to in ttMI
petition. En!!li~h v. lfolms. 4 T,•x. 2t9; Townl'r v. !'.lnyre. 4 Tex. <lO; lhvis v. Lockhart, 1 Tex. :.87. It' no
sprcial damn,: .. be nll•·J!t•d In an n<·tlon of sla1,,!f·r. none cun ht' pro\'ed. Ir" In v. Couk, 24 Tex. M5. In an 
action for breach of coH·nanl of wurranty. the eovc•nunt and b1·rocb. ancl It' e, ictlon bl! complained o~ by whom
aml agaln~t whom, mu~L lu• ,li,tinC'tly ~tall·tl. Wills v. Primm, 21 Tex. 8:sl. Tb1.1 mntnial, issuabl<.>, subst:1t1th·e
facts sbou!,t he 11tatcil, l\ncl 11111 tho lei:lll l•tf<•ct of tho~c facts, on the one hand, or mstters which llrt' merely
1mbsidlnry or e\·lclenco of the fact!:', on the other. Gulley v. llosc>ly, 21 Tex. 410; V11n AlstyD<:l v. Bertrand, 10
Tex. 1711; W,ll~ v. Fairhank~. fl Tt-x. fr,!',; Oliv.-r v. 1.Jlmpman, Hi T.-x. 408. But the rull• is not to b<' enforc~ 
to crente surprl~<.>, or dduut sub~t:rnth1l ri!!ht. W,·118 v. Fairbanks, I> Tex. ~2. A breach of a ,mdum pachHa
will not s116taln Rn action. Dumm\'. 'l'ra\'is, 20 Tux. 56. Uut an agre,·ml•llt to po~tpoue 11,ult beyond the term, 
lo consl,h•r-..itlon of which the prlnclpai n!rr,•e•I to pay tw<.'h·e perc~11t11m per 1111 num, is not n nudum pactum: 
and 1mch c11ntrnct m~y !.e d,•<'lllred on with the nott•, and Jnd~uwnt for the a,l,litlonal Interest rt"n•lered agsinst
the dor,·11Clant making the new (0011tract. und ju,::.:mcnt 1wcnrdin:: to the tenor ngaln~t the other defendaut~, e,·ery
ault 1 ... 1ng In the nature of a suit In ,·qnity. kunpp v. Mili11. 20 •r,.x. 12:1. 
Th,· c·lfecL of the rule laltl ,towu In B('al v. ::-mith (14 Tex. 80:i) il', that the plaintifff' must not only aver the
jurisdiction of the ju11,t!re of the p<'ace of aU•)tlwr ~tnlt', but he must plead tho pu.rtlculor stntate of the sl!-4•r
stl\te which gins the Juri!l(llrtion. Grant v. 81<.>dsol', 20 Tex. 4,"iS. I[ the pt'l\t\on omit n materlnl tact., which
the dufen<lant states in bl" 11nswer, the omission 18 cur<.>d. (lioul<l's Pl. chap. 8, sec. 102; 11111 v. George, 6 Ttlx.
79; N,'flbitt v. l!ichnrdson, 14 T<.'x. 658.) Grlmt>s v. 11nyi;ood, 19 T<.>x. 249. And so, fJi<'d t"tr11a. Id; 
Nesbitt,,. lllchardson, 14 Tex. 669. But the p:1rty must recover, If at all, upon tho lrlentkal caAe on which he
hlll\ b111wcl his right to a r<.>cowry In stating bis ct11111c ot' nctlon. (Robson v. H11rwell, 6 Ga. 6:l9; llall v. JackMn, 
8 Teit. 8011; Thompson v. Thompson, 12 T,•x. 880.) P:irker v. Bt>avers, 19 Tex. 410. Thompson's C8St' cltd
Mims v • .Mitchell, 1 Tex. 443; Paul v. Pur<'Z, 1 Tex. 84.">. And P11nl v. P ... r,'z cltt's Coles, •. K,·lscy, 2 Tex, l>jl;
Caldwell v. Haley, 8 Tex. 817 · Wright v. Wright. 3 Tex. 16-i: Hnnt v. Walbc,-, 2 Tex. 206. Brown v. Martin
(19 Tex. 8-tll) cites ~a!!on v. kleh<'rir, 4 Tex. S5; Hunt v. Wrl~ht, 18 Tl'X. t>49. Hut contrac~ mav be etated
accorrllni;: to th,,ir lefal effect. Mu,;on v. Kleb<'rg-. 4 T,•:i:. 81. And to call It by n ,nong nnm<', 111 lmmstcrlaL
Rob,:,rts ,·. Black, 2 'I ex. 416. And where a part\' d!'clart•R upon an acconnt statc1l, he shonld set forth thu Items
which constitute the d,,alini:rs. NPyland v. Ntiylnnd. 19 Tc·x. 42-'3. Thl8 CASt• reYlcw~ the common law authori­
ties. Id. As to m11ltifririvu,me "1, II<'<' Ckl!'i;: v. V:1r11ell, 18 Tex. 800. The ple11d\niz11 should stat<> the t'ncts truly 
ns they exi~t, llnd have to he pr,n·,·n. ,li~rt·gardln:: the rommnn lnw fictions. Young v. Epperson, 14 Tex. 624.
When an lnstrum,·nt Is set nut literally, it is unneeess:iry to 11vur tho m<.'11nlni: of lt1:1 scwml stipulutlons. Yan
Norman v. Wl1t>t•ler, 18 T .. x. lll'l. Wheic th .. re ar" mutirnl cuv,·nnnti,, th(• plaintifff mu~t aver the performnnco
o~ or readiu,,ss to p"rform contlltlo11~ prP!'edent. Id. Whf·n the 1<imple <'onlr1ll't s,:>ltl out a consideration, it is
sulHd<'nt to d,·t1<'ribe It. Il11t whl·ll it acl.d1owlt·<ll!'C's no N111,td .. rntlon, the consl,ler-.ition must be a,·erred. Jones 
v. lfollltl11y, 11 1'l'X. 416. Onl." the fa(•t,, \\ hich ar., w,·11 pl,·:11lc,I, arc :11lm\tte,I on ;.:,·11tJral demurr,•r. Catlin v.
Glo,;er, 4 Tex. l!'.J2. All our ndion., :ire In the st.ri,·t.-,t. t.lwu~h n,>t in II t<:chniral S<'nse, spt•cial actions on the 
C:l.:!ll. C:irt .... r v. Wal:u:c,.2 T,,x. ;!lJ. Trcsp:L,~ •/•t•lN, cl,llullm .frc:Jit nn•I tro\'Or m11y bo jol1wd. Id. Au
action will not lie for the mcro wroui;ful institution of n 11uil (H11ldeu1a11 v. (.Jhambers, 19 Ttc1x. t.3, M.) Smith 
v. Adams, 21 Tl'X. 80. 
538. A breach mnst be state,!, In an nctlon upon n <:'O\'enant for sp,,cfflc performance; bat ft neerl not be
at11tetl wiLh common law 1t-ch11ieality, Holman v. Cr\,-well. 1:1 Tex. 897: &. o. 18 Tex. 42. Thealh·irotlon that
the ,Jcf-,n<lant has not com1,lkrJ with or In nny manner pi,rforme<I the "tlpulatloos of his contract. is sufficient. 
I<!. 15 T,•x. 8117. This J.n ai:11 ru·.-<l not lw proved. Id. But in aU11('th•ns of t•ontract. s hr,:>ach should be rivl'rre<L
Holman v. Vrl~w,·ll, 13 Tex. 4t. If the employe<' :ilmn,lun hi~ enntract, thocmployn i1h:1ll be charg<'d only with 
thP r,•:18onnl,le worth, or the n:nonnt of h, ndit lw h:1:1 rcc,·i\'1:cl upon the \\"ho!,:> tran5uetion, not to PX<'><'<'<l the
contract price: nn<l snhjl'ct to rcco11pn1t 11t or r .. ,.,,n\·,·ntion, for his bn.•a<'h of contracl And where the
employ,'e bn!I b,·en dischar;,·<l, without , a11~ h<' Is l'llliLl.-<l to a qua11t1m1 mer11U, 1111<1 to <ll\mni:t•s for bN&Cb; 
nnd if tho contract has bh•nrnntunlly l,roken or 11J,an,\011e,l, th,• ,·mplo:,el' Is entllle,I to the ,·11!ue of thr part
performonce. (Hillyard v. Ur.ibtrl't), ll Tex. 261; :;,,<l~. on lhrn:1:!,•!!, 2 e,L p. :!l.\ note.) Carrol v. Welsh, 
Austin 'l'. 26 Tl'x. 14S. Wh,,re the plnlntiff sues fur a 11pecial dcp11sit of money, he mnst avtll' and proYt!
a d<'mand. (~lltchell \'. ~lcI.,·muro. I) T,,x. 151.) Dnncnn v. Ma!!l'lt,,. :!5 T,·x. :!lS. Otherwli-e, as t,, :1 
p:e,wral dupo~it; th,•r,• thu 111<11wy becomes dUl' pr,·sently, a111l th,· hank or hailP,· is liable for nil losses. (Ed­
ward~ on Bnlh.11c•nt~. (iii ) lrl. In 11 ~nit upon:, pru11ii~h11ry nutA•. tlw 11un-pay1a1, nt must he an:rr,•d. (Jlolmtin 
~· Cmwell. 13 Tex. 42.) Brsckett v. Dev1nt'1, 2!'i '.f<'X. 8upp. 194. It is not t'nongh to ovl'r th&t the pl:iln­
t11f Is the hol<lcr of tho note, und that the rlcfennnnt is lit1ble to J>:lY, It rnn~t be ft\·,,rn•d that he hu
not paid. Wbltnk,!r '"· u,,cur<l, 2!) T,':t. Snpp. !h'!. In 8 snit fur th<' r ·c,,v!'ry or loan,·,! d1:i.lt,·l:0. 11 
11p<>clal demond n<'crl not be averred, lflt be anh~tantlally overred that the time for return hlll! elapged. {Story
on l:nilments, § tl'li, 2~.) Clnpp \". Nl'lson, 1:! Tex. a,~. 
Ii 39. Tht> rul<' in f>:inl<'l°s Clrnnrrr_,; Prl\ctfrP. by l'<.'rkln!!., 43!'1, •p1nt.•1l. nnrl nls1J the ca11t'~ rlte<l ln the n~tra
I>c11iso11 v. 1.A,agu,·, 16 Tt·x_. -t•>i. 'I i,e r,·!kf must t,e cou~i~t,·nt wit!J the Cllllt! ma<li, by l.he pcUtion, and with .rb.e 
SJ)eC!iftc relief prayed. sou not to tab the defendant by 1mrpr1se. Id.; Hogan v. Kellum, 18 Teir. 899; McDaniel T. 
llann, 25 Tex. 102. And fact& not alleged, thouch proved, cannot be the basis or a decree, Chrlaman v. Mlller, 16
'l'n:. 160. (<Jltes Hall v. Jl\ckson, 8 Tex. 806. where the doctl'ine b fully «li11cn&serl.) Andeee Trammell v. W atson, 
~ Tex. Sapp. 216. Whert' the prayer Is for specnle N-llef, which is conststent 11·lth the case stated, and there Is no 
pruyer for general relieC the plaintifff will not. In g,•nerul, be cntttled tu a «litfel't'nt Judgment from that which he
has ask,,d. 110!,:an v. Kellum, ta Tex. 899; Hipp v. Huchet, 4 Tex. :.!-l. Wh,·re the prayer was for a mule, or lt1 
value, the pl:ilntllf Is not entitled to both. H11~"lln v, Kx-Iluru, 18 Tex. IJ()9. Where the suit WB8 to foreclose a mort­
pge, o.nd tho special prayer WI\II not M extensive a~ the law allowed, and there Willi no general prayer, It was not 
erN>r to i:rant all the relief authorized hy the statute. lli1,p v. Huchet, 4 Tex, 24. Wher,1 the suit was upon a note
al,rue,l as guardian. nnd the avernu-nts intended Lo reach tho minor's pro11t'rh-, the pl:iintiff' cannot hnve" personal 
,ud,rm.-nt ru.r:llnst lhe guardian. McDaniel v. Mnnn, 25 T<lX. llr.!. Whero the specinl r.rnyer mistakes the relier, 
the proper r,.llt·rml\y be srranted under the g,rneral 11myor. Trammell v. Wat'lon, ~ fox. Supp. lUCl. But the
relier mdet not be repngn:uit to t.he OA86 msde by the petition or answer. JJ. 
540. The gl'n«>ral rnle in trespasses ii>, thl\t whore there hns not been n 'l\'llfnl wrong or !rrollll nl'~llg<mee, 
l'('mnnn-:1tl11n is rostrlcted to the Immediate consequences of t ho wronzrul m-t, (S,·,lg. on l>amagl's, f-2 et uq.; 
Calvit v. MeJ,'nddln. 18 Tex. 824.) De La Zenia v. Korn,~ Tex. f-lnpp. JS.-.; Smith v. ~henrnod, 2 Tex. 468
(which lMt quotes Sedg. on Dam111te8, p. 34.) But not the profits whlch thu Jl}:Lintlfl' mli,:ht bsve made, hlld 
11ut his buslm-se been disturbed. De La Zerdo v. Korn, 25 Tex. 8upp. I b5. N,,r for contlngenoies conaequeatlal
an«l remote. (St'dg. on Dn~<'II, 08: 18 La.~) Calvlt v. MeFaddin, 18 Tex. 827. Where the contract Is to 
d•liver personul property, the price for which ls paid In advnnee, If the snit be brought in o reasonable time. the
plalnt1tf mny recover the hurhcst price between the day appointed for the <loll wry and the day or trial. (Sedg. 
on D11m~es, ehap, 10: Clark v. Pluny, i Cowen, 6Sl; 8 Wh. 200; }:tan1!011 v. Bartow, 4 Tl•X. :bO.) Id. 325. See 
tho qnesuou folly reviewed. Randon v, Bartow, 4 Tex. 29.'3 to 296. In nil ~UM! of eivil suits, Injury, or breach
or contract (except that or promise of marriage, 8<.'<kwlck, 27, n.), with the exception of those cuscs or tres­ 
pas11e~ or torte, accompanied bv op1,r•·~slon, trnn,I, malice. or n<'~ll!!ellc<' so 1-'T<•S!! as to rab,• n prvsumptlon or
malice, whvre the jury have 11 ,1l:1r.r..tlon, to award exemplary or vindictive damnecs ; In all other cu5<•S, the de­
elan,d ohjt·ct is to give compeneat ion. to the party Injured for th« nctuul loss sustatncd. (!::'c•II!, on Damnges, 86, 
87.) Smith v. Sherwood, 2 Tex. 464. In nil cases growing out of the non-performnnce of contrnr-ts, for Infringe­ 
ment or rl1?ht8, or non-performance of duttes created by lnw, in which there Is no element of J'n1111I, willful neg­
Uirene ... , or uiallce, tho eompensutton is the dlr e ct pe..·1mia,-y loss, which includes, In mere monev demands,
Interest for the detention of the amount claimed, and the costs of suit broucht for the recovery of tf1e demand, 
Id. Where 11 house Wl\d ngr{Wd to be built under a special eootnict, and lhC' d,•fen,lnnt put It. out of tho plnlntltl"a
power to compldt' it, tho pl11intltJ' m11y recover m1d,·r n qm111tum m~n,tt. the value or lils work. O'Connor v. 
Van Hormnt>, ()allam, 4~. Where tht> contn,ct Is exeeutory, nnd tho pur.,h11~· monev has not been paid, the
mensul'tl or dam(4:'es Is the vnlue of the ch11ttels when duo. Randon v. Bnrtow, 4 Tex. :.!il2. In tin, case of Rob­
bin! v. Wolkrs (2 'l\•x, 180). the rule wn, lnld ,!own, llnd hl\8 since bCl'n followe1l that lu o suit to recover a
alnve, an•l •lnm:,·.:es for the ,1t,1entlon, ,lnma;es for tho hire C.l\D only be Ct>mpnt.e<l from tho time of tho demand: and 
If no demnn«l 111 prove•l, tho Hervlce of the writ Is the time from which the <l11rn~c11 should be computed. (Prld­ 
pn v. Strieklnnd. 8 Tt•X. 4&4; Dunn v. Chunte, Jd. 19.) l:lavit v. Cloud, 14 T.-x. 5.'5. No deman1I is necesaory,
ueept upon tho qn .... atlon of dama~e11. ,Jon ... s v. Bo1tga. 8 Litt. 49; Bristol v. Burt. 1 Johns. 2M; Cole v. Cole, f
Bibb. 840: Dunn v. Chootl', 4 'l\•x. 19. Whero thi> suit Wl\tl on n special onntmct f,•r building a house, where there 
bad only Leen 1iarti11I p,.'rlormancc, tho true rrwn~uro of ,tnm:i~,·s Is the amount of the controct, less the rcnaon•
&bit• and fair amount the defendant hnd to pay for oomplt.'tln;: tho job. (Britton v. Turner, 6 N. H.) Hlllyard 
v. Crabtr<'l'.11 'l't>x. 261, 2oS. An«! j!;Cnl•rnlly for non-cornpli:mco, 8ee lllllynrd v. Cruhtree, 11 Tex. 274; Carroll
v. \•,(·\~h. 211 Tex. 140. Without an,rmt•nt of frnn<I tbe 111P:1iluro of ,!nmngt!s, ror 111110 of a spurio08 oe~
la thti purchaae-mou,•y with lnt.>rcst. Andrews v. P,·rklns, l!!I T,·x. l>-1$. 
§ 1428. (672) [6] The clerk or deputy, receiving such petition, shall 
indorse thereon the day on which it is filed, nnd also the number thereof,
and shall enter the suit in a docket to be kept for that purpose, in the order
in which it is filed, stating in a convenient form, the number of the suit, the
names of the parties and their attorneys, the object of the suit, the officer's
return, and all subsequent proceedings in the suit, specifying the time they 
were had. 
§ 1429. (673) [8] Every person, whether plaintifff or defendant, who 
shall make affidavit before the clerk that he is too poor to pay the foes of
office, shall be entitled to receive from such clerk all such process as will
enable him to prosecute or defend his suit, free of costs. 
J,41. Tho co1>ts whirh a r•~rty is rell<'ved from paying or securlni. are the coat., of the court where tho
application h mad,· for th(· pro,·.-~s, nn,! not tho costs of Sorn<' oth<'r court: and tho ortllnnry J>l"ll'l'SS Is meant, 
pd not the extra,,r,linnry writ,; o( Injunction, ct>rliorari, Ruper1JM,6<l8, nn«i tho like. In thl'SO ca!e!!, the bonds 
tu th<' parties rd!J>t-etively re1111il'l'tl must be gl\•en. (~foys v. Lewis, 4 Tex. 4.) Holmes v. Holloway, 21 Tex. 662.
The l\llldavlt ls au answ,:r tu a rule fo1· cmn:i;, ut auy Liult' pending the salt.. Brooks v. Hicks, 20 'fcx. 661. This 
NCUon does not ex'4!nd to appeals nnd wrlta of error. Prestige v. Prc1tlge, 26 Tex. 68:1. 
[AN ACT TO AMEND THE NINTH SECTION OF " AN ACT TO REGULATE PROCEEDINGS IN THE DISTRICT COURTS." PASSED ON THE 13TII DA.Y OF 
)L\ y, 1846. 
Axr. 1430. [9] It shall be the dnty of the clerk, when a petition is fileJ
and the regulatiom~ hereinafter provided nre complied with, to issne a writ or
citation, directed to the sheriff or (other proaier officer] of the county or coun- 
• 
ties in which the petition alleges that the efend:mts are, requiring him to
summon the defendants to appear at the proper term of the court, the11 and 
there to answer the plaintifff's petition, a certified copy of which shall accom- 
P
any each writ or citation·, and if there be more tha.n one defendant, the 
clerk shall issue a writ or citation to each, accompanied with a copy of the
petition: Provided, that when suit is instituted in any court of tbis state
against any corporation or body politic, service of s:1id writ or citation, with 
a oopy of the petition, on the chief justice, ·mayor, president, secretary, or
treasurer thereof, shall be a sufficient service on said corporation or body 
rt· ] 
po 1 lC. 
542. There Is no altentlon or the law of lst6, eircept the addition of 11.II after the worcl "Providrd ... -Eo.
The courts cannot supply by lntendmcnt, the wnnt of propC>r certainty In n writ in point or time. ,,,n~ht v. 
Wl1mot, 22 Tex. 898. where both d('(cndant11 are declll.l'l•d to reside In the some county, n brnnch writ rm1nlng
to another connty Is void, and the &crvioo a nullity. Ward v. Lntlmer, 2 Tex. 241. Th,.· n•cita1l that the t!t l;.n,1- 
antl\ appeared does not bind tho de!enda11t thus eerved, who did uot plca,1. Id. Tho1111>:w11 v. <irllllil I!) T.-J'. 
Google 
117. But where 110me or the dt'(cndnnta reside In other counttea. the llh~rUT of the county where tbe l!Ult 11
brought m:\y serve all who are found in his county. Saunders v. Hilmer, S TtiL 296. Where the pt>Ution dla· 
closes the n11111e11 of thi, firm, the cltntlon to them, u a firm, la sufficient. Amln-wa v. Ennis, 16 Tex. 46. And 
80 e.s to pBrtnt·rshlp plo.intitf~ Dikes v. MonrOt', 15 'fex. 237. Tl.wrc need bt,•t,ut one orl,rlnal wrft. and that
1hoold cont41n the no.mes of all the dcfenchmts. Andcrson v. Brown, 16 Tex. 1:>M. A copy of ibis orlirtno.l 11hould
be &erv,'d on t'nch d .. Cendunt. Id. The co.-,y of the petition furnished by the clerk to the sheriff need not be 
under seal. Thomas,·. Womack, 18 Tex. 682. Where the def,,n,Jnnts rei,,lde in different counties, the clta.Uon
11bould run to ~ummon the def,.ndnnt or defendsnts of eneh county; nnd the ropy of the petition will Indicate
who o.rc the plalntltf11 and dt>fcnrl:inta. Little v. Marler, 8 Tex. lOS. The 9th, 10th, snd Uth 11ecllou11 compared.
Id. The writ must name the parties to thl' suit. Burlet10n v. Her1dereon, 4 'l'ex. ~1, 118. Where the writ wu
directed as r.-quir,·d In this section. and tht< ~herilf Wall a party, It was propt'rly aervea by the coroner. Kirk v. 
Murphy, 16 TeL 654; l'owdl ,·. Wilson, Id. GO. The 1,etltlon, nut the clt11tlon, is the leading process. Dlkee v. 
Monroe, 16 Tex. 237. Jr an Blteratlon In the citation has been mo.de after service., lt should be regularly Im·
pe11ched. A mnr,;Jnal note of the clerk will not be noticed. Id. W c do not exact u much strictness CID the
clt':tlon) aa we would lr tbe citation wa11 (u the writs In the C11mmon Jaw pmctlet>) the leading proceaa In the
auit. (Dike11 v. Monroe, 15 Tllx. 237; Cummlnp v. Rice. 9 Tex. M7.) Galv. & lied RI vet R. R. Co. v. Shep­ 
henl, 21 Tex. 279. The act of 9th Fehruary. ISM, to regulate railway companlea, pro\"ldes that all such ptoceM
against such companies shnll be served on the president or secretary, or by leaving a copy st the principal olfice
of the corporation. Paul Bremond having executed tho note, as pre11td .. nt of the company, and the petitioJI
a,·errlng that he waa aUll prealdent, the aervlce upon him wu pn>~r. Id. 278, 279. 
§ 1431. (6'75) [101 The style of all writs and process shall be-" The
State of Texas," and sha I be tested in the name of -the clerk of the court 
from which it is issued: it shall also state the name of the parties to the suit,
the time and place of holding the court ; shall be dated and signed by the
clerk, with the seal of the court affixed ;*excepting subpmnas, which may be 
issued without the seal; and the clerk issuing any process, shall mark thereon
the day on which it issued. 
543. It the clbltlon be not under seal, It may be quaahftd on motion; nr. tr judgment be rendered by de­
ftl.ult. the ornl.'!Slon ,till be fatal on error. Frosh v. Schlnmp( 2 Tex. 423. Whera an act "to take effect l'rom 
and Rrter !ta pnSll&IC<'," cha111recl the time of holding the court; and a citation, issued &evl.'n daya afterwards, dld
not noticl' th\! change. It w1111 void, on<l a jud10Dent rendered by default Wilt! reversed. Nelli v. Brown, 11 Te%. 17.
The l"ilatiun mni-t curn·111>0nd with the petltfon, or the vari:i.oce will be fatal Cooke v. C'rawforo..1 TeL 11. Ia 
Burleson v. H,·nd1·r11on (4 Tex. 49), tbe no.mes of two of the derenclanta were omitlt.•d In the writ, wblch did
not dt'acrlbe truly the n111111.'8 of the r,artlc•s to the suit. Hett', there 111 tho oml1111lon merely of the aurname of 
011e or the dl'fcndnnts, whose n&me la irlveu in full In the petition. Crain v. Grlfli&, 14 TeL 862, 863. n aboald
hnve been excopwd to, or pleaded tn abatement, In the oourt below. Id. (See 98 'l'ex. 868.) 
§ 1432. (6'78) fl3] Any party to a suit, his agent or attorney, may
waive the necessity of the issuance or the service of any writ or procesa re­ 
quired to be served on him in the suit, and accept such servioe thereof:
Provided, that such waiver or acceptance shall be made in writing, signed by
such party, h~ agent, or attorney, and filed among the papers of the suit, aa
a record. 
544. Where the acknowledgment or aervlce la on the written petition, and signed by tbe partv, It nNMI
not be ae11aratt,ly ftled. Jewett v. Miller, 19 Tex. 291; Crain v. Griffis. U Tex. 862. And the ftllo,: is ·aufflcll'D& 
prama faci6 proof of tbA !l'~r.,unencss, to allow a judgment b:, defoult. Id. And If 11uch 11eknowletlgment tMt 
on thti clt&tion, It is gm without any further returns by the ahcrlfl'. Metz v. Bremond, 18 Tex. 896. If the
acknowlodgml'Dt be by an ottorney at law1 there 11 o prlma fack presumption In riwor or hla authority; tr~ 
an attorney in fact, the authority must DO mnde to appear aliund6. (1 La. Ann. 8i7.) Fowler v. MorrtJJ,
8 TeL 167. Where the acknowledgment wu not sustained, the judgment wua reveraod u to him and hl1 gar•
nlabee, although the latter waa well ae"ed. Id. 
§ 1433. (6'79) [14] The sheriff, or other officer receiving any process,
shall indorse thereon the day on which he received it, and shall execute the 
same where not otherwise- directed by the writ, or citation, by delivering to 
the party or parties in person, upon whom he is required to serve it, a copy
thereof, and a copy of the petition accompanying it, if there be one, if the 
party can be found ; when the process directs other mode of service, it shall
be executed according to tl)e requirements of the process. 
t~ ~f o.:-...r- ~~-'-- (..cA>,<.AL '4-rr ,,,,, t- 
si1s. "Executed, Aul?llst toth, 1567, by serving the 1lef,:-ndant with a trul copy orth .. wrft, and a oertflled
copy of the plnintUrs petition." This return WM Insufficient. ( Underhfll v. Lockett, 20 Tex. 180.) Gravel! v. 
Robertson, 2'J Tex. 131-8. 8oo 11lt10 Hurt v, Cll~on, 19 Tex. 66; Thomason v. Bishop. 24 Tex. 808. The return
should stnte fully, thnt the copv of the writ and petition were delivered to the defendant ln person. Id.
Bartlett v, Winkler (ll'i Tex. Mb), Is overruled. Id. 1:33; wuu- v. Thomae, 22 Tex. irs. Middleton v. The
State, 11 Tex. ~- This is the prlneiple upon error, where judgments have been rendered by default: but It 
does not dectdo cases where there hllS been an appeersnee, or where the point Is ralacd collaterally, 1111 in Rob..•ru 
v, Stockslager (4 Tex. 307). 'l'he above noted sections, and the 11tatute of 1846 eoneemlng sberlfr11 compared;
and held, that the manner o( service must not be left to Inference. Underhill v. Lockett, 20 Tex. 181; Btephens
v. Price, 16 Tex. C>i8. And the error. causing the reversal or the judgment as to one defendant, defecth·ely
served, operates as a reversal a1 to all. {Burleson v. Henderson, 4 Tex, 49; Wood v. Smith, 11 Tex. 86i.)
Wlllie v. Thomas, 22 Tex. li6. "&-rved by rea,Jtm: the within, Au~ust 2'2d. 1889." The defendant not having
appeared, a "curator ad iitem " WM appotnted, wuo pleaded to ibe jurls•liC'tlon. There was [ndgment for 
&peeiflc p .. rformnnce, and r,,r a money residue, execution, and sale of property. and the validity or the jmlgment
npon such a service WI\S the question. The mode of obtalnlnz r,er!\011111 servlce In 1839, when Grf,1?Sby pnrporta 
to have been served, was by delivering to hlm a copy of the writ and petition. There was no autborhy of
Jaw for servtnz process simply hy reeding. There waa. thereforee. no lei,!':\) service or notice upon Grfg:11by, and 
consequently he -a·1111 not aff'ected l,y the judgment, No person is bound by a judgment, to which he bas llol
become o. party In Mme of the modes known to the II\W. The judgment as to -Grigsby Wlll! void. McO,y
v. Crawford, 9 'fl'X. 8M. Th« immfHclency of s-rvlce must be &&1!:rnPd for error, Rov v, Bremond, 22 Tex. 624.
The return should not depend upon indoreem1.>.nts on other writs (or extraneous fact,) for lb! vallillty, but 
should be r .. 11,tlly Intellhrtble when taken in connection with tho writ on which It Is lndorsed, Tbompeoll
v. Griffis. 19 Tex. 116. If th ... re b.J neither service nor pleading, the recital of nppearanee, in tho entry, wfll be
conftned to the 1h•f,·rulant who was served. Id. Where the eervlce was upon an attorney in fact., who held a 
power "to sue au. <l ht• sued," the servlce (In a maglatr.tc's court) waa held sufficient, "hen attacked collat.erallr,
C!o!T\'tl v. Sih:1118, t:', T .. x. 3.'H. 'I'hr- ~1>rvi,•1· must 11bo,v the day on wblcb lt waa made. Whitaker v. Fl&cb., 
16 Tex. Supp. 308. And be ir,lgned by lhe sheriff, before jndi:ment by default. His amendment, attar a writ <II 
error, will not avl\lL Tbomns v. Go,,.J,,i,rn. "l?', T,·,:. ~npJ>. 4&il; Geralil v. Berther 2!1 ,..,..,., '209 
[ • Withont it 1~ void. Ohambers v. Chapman, o2 T .. x. 670. If more tb11n one llefendant, all man be .....
Den<.ly v. Doyce, 87 Tex. 4-14; l'a8chR1°6 Ing. cf Deets. # 608+-61'8~~Joogle 
§ 1434. (680) [16] Subpoenas for witnesses, and necessary notices in
the course of a suit, may be executed and returned at any time before the
trial of a suit in which they are issued; subpceuas shall be served by being
read to the witness, and service thereof may be accepted by any witness, in 
writing on the bnck thereof. 
§ 14,15, (682) [19] When any process shall have been improperly
served, or shall not have been returned, or shall have been returned without
service, it shall be the duty of the clerk, upon the application of any party
interested, his agent, or attorney, to issue other process, directed to the
sheriff or other officer of the same or any other county, as the party applying
may direct. 
§ 1436. (683) [20] Every clerk, sheriff, or other officer, failing or
neglecting, or refusing to perform any duty directed by this act, shall be
liable to fine for contempt, in a sum not less than ten nor more than one hun­
dred dollars, at the discretion of the court having cognizance of the same,
and also to damages with costs, at the suit or action of any person injured. 
646. Thls section eompared with the Stb lk'l'tlon of the net about sheriff... Crow v. The State, 9-1 Tex. 12. 
It ls not propl'r to cull a jury to trv a quesuon or contempt, except in cmw,i where IL Is provided by law, that
thP party prtteet>de<I a~lnst "hall hnYe the rli:ht or trial by jnry, Id. 18. If th,• c,,,nt,•mpt Is olf<'rcd In view or 
pre!!('lll't• of the r,111rt, the judze r•roc,,..<111 summartlv to pnnbh the otf,•nder. lie mny enter an absotute line,
or, In a pro()<'!' cnse, he may t-<•nd th,• r·=irty to jnll. J,l. Hut ff a l!ht·rlll' fall to make II return, ..t.c., or n Juror to 
atrend, they are only prima faci~ n cuntvurpt ; and th« pror,er pra,·tll'e Is u, enter a jo,1:?meut nui, and to
Issuo 11 «cire fu~·il11 to the n,·xt rcrm to show c1111110. 11\. 14. 'I he dt>l',•ndant mny then 11bow cause under oath,
pur1Cln1: himself of tht• conu-mpt ; und th" court trle11 the question upon the a1111wer or other evidence, and wny 
set w.Wu or modify the judgment, 1,i«i. Id, The injure1i party, B8 to a sheriff', 18 &till ldt to bla action, Id. 
AnT. 1437. (684) [21] Process n~inst a sheriff shall be issued to and
served by the coroner of' the county, if there be one, but if there be no coro­
ner, or if he be unable to act, then such process may be issued to and served
by any constable of the county, the return thereof always to be in the same
mode as directed for service by sheriffs, 
§ 1438. (685) [2:d] Every party upon whom any valid process is
served, shall obey the requisites of such process under such penalty as may
be prescribed by law. 
§ 1439. (686) [25] No judgment shall be rendered in any case of
attachment, unless the citation has been served in the ordinary mode, or pub- 
lication, as herein provided. · 
. ART. 1440. (687) [28] The plaintifff or his attorney may enter a discon­
tinuance on the docket of the clerk in vacation, in any suit wherein the
defendant has not answered, on the payment of all costs that have accrued
thereon. 
5 -11. Ir the <ll'f<•n,lant bas nnswcrod before the discontinuance, he ehould move to eet a.aide the judicmen', 
wbere LI.lo attenttou of the court liwi nut boon called to the Caot. 1'obinaoD v. ll.at.tllOD, ll6 Ta. 811pp. '61. 
ABT. 1441. (688} [29] The defendant in bis answer may plead as many
several matters, whether of Jaw or fact, as he shall think necessary for his
defense, and which may be pertinent to the cause: Provided, that he shall
file them all at the same time, and in due order of pleading. 
648. The answer must set r.,rtb all the 11prcial matter of avoidance of tho cao11& of action. Love ,r. 
llclnt\r..•, 8 Tex. 12.. Whl•re a partv plMMl11 former Inenmbrances upon tha land for which the note wat1 g!nn, 
u rallur,, of congfd, mtlon, he i<houl<i 11tat.• that, at the time of reeeivma the deed an,I giving the note, be had no
notice nC the lncumhrance. n .. rrou v, l>e Bnrd, 24Tt·x. 1$2. Where a 1left•uclnnt, sued for the bin, or slavea, 
plesd that he hln.·d from another, not the owner, hi' should also have plead that be was Hable to tho third person
Cor the hl!'t'. Walton v. Hamilton. 24 Tc>x. :.!16. In pl .. adlnsr failul'll of consideration, and (nltoe statements bv 
the olalntitf. the plea should aver that the def.,nd11ntrelled onthem, (Moreland v. Atchison. 19TeL 803.)Lncklr T 
Mct11&880n, ~:.! Tex, :.!St And that the 1•l11lntltTs were in defsnlt In not m11kinir title. (C'AlOJ>er v. Singleton, 19
T<'L :tr.o; Lawrence v, Simonton. 13 Tex. 2"!0.) Id. Whether an Issue or fact on a plea in abatemeut, and one 
npon the mertts, shall be submitted u,u:,•tn,·r to a Jury, must be Ion, In a iz-reat ffl<'115tln>J to jndlclnl dlscretton,
Ruhert!!On v. Ephraim. lo Tex. 122. But the jury should be instructed, tliat tr they ftna the matter pleaded In
aL11tt'rm•nt for the defendnnt, thev should nnd no t'urther. Id. Ir the Isane be Important, lt should be trierl and
Coun<l before l'vld.-n<'e Is benrd on the rucrlts .. Id. The burden or proof lies upon the defendant, upon a piea In 
aloat,·mcnt. Id. 124. A pl .. a of tender Is not had beeause the de(l'ndllDt demanded a rce<.'lpt as a condition.
Brock. v. Jones, 16 Tes.. 467. ExCRpttons, well t.Rkt'n. n.nd which go to the m,•rlts oftht' petition, may be entt'rtalnlld
atternnnnswt1rtotht1 m~ts. (J:oowler v. Stoneum, 11 Tex . .178; Watson v. Loo11, 12 Tex. 11.) Oliver v. 
Chapman, 15 Tex. 402. Thnt is. nceptlons whkh would be irood in arrest of judgment, or where the petition 
ehoWI! no cause of acUon. Watson v. Loop. 12 Tex. 18; Wtlllllms v. Randon, 10 Te:1. 78. Pen>mptory e:rcep­ 
tloos 11hnuld prec<·do the 11nswer. Moore v. Torn>y, 1 Tox. @. But IC thCTe be no merit In the cxceptlon11, the
Ntf111111l to <'nU.rtnln them, or th<' ,mst.alninir a motion to t1trlke out tho answt>r, Is not <'rror. llubbell v. Lord. 9
Tex. 474; Oliver v, Chapman, 1~ T1>x. 402. Mrr., e-xceptlons to the form of de<'lnrlfll!'. should not bl' t1ntcrtaln<'d
aft.er the gt>neral !Yue. Towner v. S11yre. 4 Tax. 29. An nnswer which ll<'tl! np no def.,Ul't', ~hon Id be trMt.•d III 
a nullity. Rrower v. We!¢. 2 T1>x. 3i7. When tht11foftmd1mt has answcrc,1 to the merits, and th<• plalntlff11fter­
ward11 amencts, the defendant may still demur to the orlir!nal Jl('tltlon and anwndm .. nt. Wiiiiams v. Ran­
don, 10 Tex. 78. .Aa that the petition 11how11 that th11 claim Is barred. M. All e:tc,·ptlona which ,ro to the
8Ctton. 1honld be present.!d before a Jllt'R to the m<'rlt!\. Drake v. Brand"1', S Tl':t, SM. But the 1lef1·nil11nt m11y
moYe to quMh the attfiehment bond., alter a plea to th<' mPrtts. Id. New atlinnatlvo n111tter of avoit!nncll or 
delene.. cannot be !riven in evM.,nce under thl' ,n nl'rnl l~1;ue, lforl,•y v. M<'.\nPlly. 17 Tt•x. 000. Wli,•re 11.11 
&nllW<'r la not ~uftkfently 11peclftc III to cl11te11 nnd 11mounts of peymt1nts, the ohjt'<'llon sboul,1 })(' tnken by ~pt><:lal
t'ltceptlon, not genentl 1lemnrr1·r. (W• lls v. Fairbank. 5 T,,x.~'2: At.It• v. l,(',,, G TPX. 427: Hollinrnn ,·. P.oi:ers.. 
Id. 91.) Marley v. McAnelly, Ji TcL 661. sr,,cinl exc•'ptlons ehould point out the Vt'ry vbje<•Uun11 lntendl'1l to be
relied on. (Cr11ytun v . .Munger, 9 Tu. ~) Hayee v. Bonner, 14 Te:s. 881. And the pafmeot mar be proved bf 
the admluloneof the party, and other clrcumatantlal evidence. (2 !Jtark. ET. IT· 1 Id. 6T,GS.) Wt'lltl T. FaJr-, 
bank, 6 Tex. 1184.. And t'or the distinction a between II mtstake o! laV" and fact., ae.. M:urela11d T. &tcfileon, 10 Tes. 
8(,8; ~11 v. de iiormnndle, 26 Tex, l~ And there la no distinction between oontracta executed and
exeeutory, unleN the vendee had notlef! or the defect. Oooper v. Stn«Ieton. 19 Te:r. ffi; Brock v. Sonthwtok, 10 
Tex. 66: Hurt v. McRoynolda. 20 Tex. 599; 'Elurt v. Blackbum, 20 Tex. 601. Inrancy 111 11 peninDAI privilege.
an,I the burden of proof rests on the person setting up the prlvlles:e. Campbell v. WIIM>n, 28 Tex. 2M. A 
demurrer to evidence lldmlta every fact and conclusion whlcb the evtdenee conduees to proV«!j that le, which a
Jnry eonld l~lly Infer from the evidence; bnt notf'act8 not proved. Bradbury v, Reed. 28 Tex. 260; Booth v. 
Cotton, 18 Tex. 86'J. And without these ndmlulona., 11 defendant Is not compelled to Joto In demurrer. Id.
And If under the Issue joined. tho evidence. with every reasonable deduction th11t a Jury would haYe been per·
mltted to make from It, in favor of the plalntUl"s riaht, would not sustain the action, the Judgment 11u1tainlng 
the demurrer must stand. Dangerfleld v, Paaebal, Ii Tex, Ml. Ir no action 111 taken upon o. demurrer, it la
waived; anti from thence ltsadrnl11Slons.. tor any purpose. cease. Chambers v. Mfiler, 9 TeL 28T. 
Tbo act or 1840, to regulate proceedtnzs tn the district court, wu not Intended to prohibit a N!pllcatlon.,
though none ta neceSMry. Underwood v. l'nrrott, 2 'fell. 171'>, 160. But A new promise or exception, to take a 
cue out of the statute of llmltntlon11, should be declared on or replied. Colee v. Kelaey1 2 Tex. 6!!0. Where the
df'fendant bu a1•1wared, o.nd ali,:n,•d certain a,rreenwnta. and excepted to ovldenC(', alt0ough he had not been 
aerved, Rn,l bad filed no written answer, and the suit appeara to have boen a friendly one, the defendant will '!,e 
deemed to have plend the g,·nornl Issue. Crosby v. Hu11toni l Tex. 228. If It was Int.ended to objtiot that a demand ou1tht to have been averred, the ohjection should nave been taken specially by demurrer. Dever T. 
Branch, 18 Tex. 616. Where covenants are mutual and dependent, the ,h,fendant may aver and prove that the
plalntUJ baa not complied with bh~ part of the contract. Vom11ton v. The Weit.em Stage Compau,, ~ Tex.
Supp. 67. A bill of lnterpleader Ilea where two OI' more peraona claim the aame debt or dnty o the eom· 
platnant by a&JIU'llte Interests. Williama v, Wright, to TeL CM)I. It clAtma no right ln '>ppoaitton to thoee
claimed by the persona agalnat whom the bill Is exhibited, but only prays the decree of the oourt, to declct.
between the rlghta of tboee persons for the ea!uty of the complainant. Id. GOS. If a debt or other claim baa 
been assigned, and a controverey arl&es between the o.s&lgnor and assignee N!lpectlng the tttle, a bill o( tnter­
pleader may be broueht by the debtor, to have the point settled to whom he 1hall pay. Id. And It two aulta
be pendlag 11,mlnst the 111\Dle defendant, In differ<'nt eounttes, for the Mme debt, be may bavo tho second stayed 
until the ftrat Is determined. Id. An lnterplcader must show that be ls Interested tn the thing In suit. It la
not enough that be bu a good action against one ot' the parties. Burdett v. Gluaeock., !IO TeL Supp. 46.
Where tbt1 Intervenor sho,,..s an equitable claim to the note In snit, and the lnterveotton will not cauae delay, he 
ebould be heard. Eccles v. Hfll, 18 Tex. 66., 6T. That a suit waa pending to aettle the title to the negroee,
where the contest was about o. note tor hire, 111 no excuse ror retoatng the Intervention. Id. 
The geraernl denial docs uot put In laaue the representatln character ottbe plo.lntUt It can only be done by a
epeclol plt<a or n, 1111q11 i1, ,(l'n·1,tor or n• unq11ia adm,niatratOf'. Cheatham v. Riddle, 12 Tex. 116; Cllrtnn v. IJl­ 
ley, Id. IM. And so of the oftlclnl charactez of ao officer. A ulanl«-r v. The Gonrnor, 1 Tox. 668. It need not be plead­
ed In abatement. O'Neal v. Tladale, 12 Tex. 41. Bnt where the orlstnal party bu died or reelgned bis administratlon, and It Is proposed to make II repreeentat1ve o. po.rty, an objection pnts the representative to theproot or ha 
trusL 1<1. The answer to a mandamu., Bult need not be sworn to, e11pecfally when It aeta tortb record fac,ta 
which show lt1111ufflclency. W11tltlna v. Klrchaln, 10 Tex. 879. The, answer cannot aver the plalntltr out or oourt.
Perry v. Rice, 10 Tex. 870. Every pleading m1111t contain the avennent or material, lsanable facta, which, whe,n 
determine the controversy, and authorize a Ju<t,mumt for the party In whose favor lt may be round.
v. Shafer, 9 Tex. 28. 1':Scb plea In avoidance must constitute, tn ltselfz a good defense. Hlllebrant T. 
Booth, T Tex. WO. And If the plea be upon Its face untrue, ft will conatltute no aefence. Id. A.a to admlaslona
In pleading, 11eo Fowler v. Davenport., 21 Tex. 683. Mawrlal allentlone, distinctly averred In a petttion and not 
are admitted, and nted not be proved. Wellborn v. Carr 1 Tex. ,no. An a.newer must be signed b:, 
the defendant or hfa attorney. Hemming T. Zlmmerchltte, 4 Tex. iM. And although not marked" 8.led," if an
be tn the record, and the order recite .. the defendant appeared." the presumption ta that the anawer w .. 
oat date, In a plea to an action ofalo.nder, or the valoe
or the thing stolen, le not reached by a general demurrer, but by apeelal exception. George "'· Lemon119 Tex. lAL 
plea which confeeMe the Btatementa ln the petition, but aeta up matter In avoidance, which the derendant da.
not prove, may be read u a oonfeaafon antnat the deCendaat. Jonett v. ,Touett, 8 Tex. 1'50. Bat where there 
two oontradlctory plea&, one cannot be read to prove the other. Duncan T, Maa'ette, 9:1 Tex. 249. Tl:e 
matters aet up by defe,ndant In hie SD&wer, are denied by the plaintifff' wtthont formal rep!,:. (Hall v. 
Hodge, 2 Tex. 828.) McCorltle v. Lawrence, 21 Tex. T83; Guuheno.nt v. Brisbane, 18 Tex. 20; Underwood 
v. Parrott, 2 Tex. 1 t6. So, matter 1et up tn the potttlon (aa In raise lmprl80nment, on averment that there
wu no warrant or affidavit for the arrest), la denied, and the warrant may be shown under the general llllDe.
Boynton v. Tidwell, 19 Tex. 12l. In an action upon a note given for land, tbede,fendaut plead an lncumbrance, 
In consequence of which the plo.lntlft' could not make title: {be pll\tntlft' replied, a release ot the locumbranoe.
Thia was an l1111ue or fact, which ought to have been fonnd by the Jury. Taylor v. ,Johnson, 19 Tex. 8.'i8. If 
there wu snob an lucnmbrance. the court oould ha...e ~ttled the equities of the partll'&, by wtthboldlnir the collection ot the money until the lien waa dtecho.rged. (Bridge v. Younir, 9 Tex. 401; Perry v. Rice, 10 Tex. 8'iS;
Tarpley v. Poaire, 2 Tex. 148.) Id. Bnt If the oovenante be In fact dependent, the plaintifff' must plead perfor­ 
mance, or an oft'er to perform: and the party who 111 to make the convt'yanoo, must prepare It. Perry T. Rice, 10
Tex. 818. And If the suit be on o. note or bill, the plAintltr need not aver the conatdMatlon i' but the defendant 
mav brtni:c It rorwnrd In his an11we,r, and have the whole equities settled, even where ~ adm nl11trator euea. Id. 
It the defendant lleelt to aYotd payment because of an outst&ndlnr tttle, he must aver and pron IL Id. Tarp­ 
ley v. Poage, 2 'fex. 1"8. Pl~ of alien enemy fa merely dilatory. Bishop T. Jones, 28 TeL 296. 
ABT. 1442. {689) [80] No plea of non ut factum shall be received or
admitted from any party other than such as a.re sued as the representatives
of other persons, unless the party pJeading the same shall make affidavit to
the truth thereof, and no plea of non est factum shall be received or admitted
from any person sued as the representative of another, unless some suspicion 
be cast on the instrument upon which such plea is founded, by the affidavit
of such representative. 
ABT. 1443. (741) f86l When any petition, answer, or other pleading,
shall be founded, In w'bofe or in part, on any instrument or note in writing,
charged to have been executed by the other party or by his authority, and 
• 
not alleged therein to be lost or destroyed, such instrument or note in writing
shall be received as evidence, without the necessity of )?roving its execution, 
unless the party by whom or by whose authority such instrument or note in
writing is charged to have been executed, shall file his affidavi.t in writing, 
denying the execution thereof; and the like rule shall prevail in all snits
against indorsers and securities upon any note or instrument in writing;
when any such instrument or note in writing is ohar$ed to have been
executed by any testator or intestate, it shall be received m evidence in like 
manner, unless some suspicion is cast upon it by the affidavit of the executor
or administrator of such testator or intestate. 
549. The previous laws a_pon the eubJeot whtob have not been dlrectly repealed, and may or may not baft
been fully eupeneded., 111'9 u follo,n :- 
§ (633.) When any party to a suit or action, either as principal or security, maker or
indoJSer, founded on any bond, bill, promissory note, or other written contract, covenant, or
agreement whatsoever, shall deny his signature, he shall be required to do the same under 
oath. 
AB .AOT TO BBQUIRB_ THK PLEj.. 01' "NON ET FA.OTUK" TO BB l'ILED UNDD OATH IN' OBRTAIN'
O.lSBS. 
§ {634.) [IJ In all cases in which a suit has been instituted for the recovery or an
amount due upon such bond, bill, promissory note, contract, or other writing obligatory, and
auch suit is now pending in any of the courts of this republic, or in cases in which any such
auit shall hereafter be instituted, the execution of the instrument shall be regarded as proved,
and the plea of " non est jadum " shall be considered as unavailing, until the defendant, or in
case there be more defendants than one, at least one of them, shall have made oath before the
court in which the case is pending, that he or they never executed the said instrument, nor
authorized any person to execute it for him or them. 
f2] That all Jaws'and parts oflaws contrary to the provisions of this act be, and the same
are bereby repealed. 
These M'Teral artlclt'tl compared, and held, that the bill or ladlnir or II carrier le embraced by them. Barrow T, 
PhUleo.. 14 Tex. 346. Where there was no denial upon oath, the signature need not be proved. Ramsay T. 
McCr.nley, 2 Tex. 190. Wht'ro a parrnerehtp was sued, and one member of the flnn denied tho exeeutton or the
note, r.nd the 11roof wl\8 that lt waa executed by the other, after the dlasolutlon or the ftrm, the plea will be 1101- 
tatned, unlese lt 1X' proved thl\t he had authority to execute Ir. Wblto v. Tudor, 24 TeL Ml. Jr several notes 
be declared on, 011 formlnir Items of an account. tho execution of neither need be proved, unlesa It be denlt>d
under oath. Dtal v. TRylor, S 1' .. x. 269. Where the plea admitted the sl,rnlng or a note, but swore that a [BHL] 
blld been added. It w1111 a good ploo ofmm ut fact um. Mucklerov v, Bethany, 23 Tex. 16'. Thia caae wu dl1- 
tlngaisboo from n e ad v. Roark, 14 Tf'X. 830. Id. (NoTL-The ca&tl Willi determined In the dlatrict court 
before thP. act of 1~", dl11pen!llni,r with private seals In certain case1.-R&POKTB&. Id. 168.) A plea that a note
waa made tu pencil, but wrltt<>11 over with Ink, 111 not a ,rood non ut fadm11, even if the alteration be made 
without tho consent of the defendant, Read v. Roark, 14 Tex. 880. A plea that the derendnnt never waa a
member of the firm which made the note, Ill not a ,rood plea, nnless It deny the execution of the note. Fergu­ 
eon v. Wood, 28 Tu. 178. But where a hill or lading wu 11lgne<l by D., M muter, the general t1111ue, without
oath, put the phdntllf upon proor or the Interest or the owners, Fowler T. Davenport, 21 Tex. 834.. The repre- 
1entntlve of a sneeeeslon, under this act or 26th January, 1889, wu required to deny the eseeutton, under oath,
t.o the best or his be Iler and k.nowledire. Tarpley v. Po.g,i, 2 Tex. 146. Where the plea admitted the signature.,
but IJl'lerted that the amount or the penalty In the admlnlatrator'a bond, declared on, had been Inserted alter 
their signatures, the hood ehould have been read, In the ftl'8t Instance, wlthont proor of execution; then the
on .. of alteration lay upon the derendanta. Wells v. ~oore, 15 Tex. 622. Where a note and lndorsement wero 
declared on, and the lndoraement wae made by an agent, the Bftency need not be proven, nnleu It be dented
under oath. An11tln T. Townee, 10 TeL 11(1. Mere proof or a promise to pay a note, accompr.nled by a dental of 
authority to make It, will not overrule a plea or "°" ed /advm. Wtlaon T. Skatrga. 10 Tex. 299. Where the 
oontnct wu slped by "Sanden. agent or the Wee&ern Stage Company," the name of the partnen. and the
auUlorlty of tbe agent, should N aven'fld and proTen nncler the pnfflll denJat, without tbe 1worn pie, 
of non m /adum. Compton T. Tbf' W eatem Stage Oompuy, 26 Tex. Snpp. 47. Where tbe derendallt
11gDed, leaving thfl Mme or the P41Yee In hlAnk, an,1 tt w1111 J)llllscd In good faith to a third person fnr nlae, 
the maker C&I1n•>t object that be dltl not !'l:?n. Jones "· Primm, 6 Tex. 170. t'll. If the lnatrument wu
faleelf read to an unlebtered msn, hf' mny pl,n,1 11,, facta specially wWch 111 equlvaleint to a non ed ft1"""'1&; 
and I the facta he proven, " verdict in favor of the defendant will not be dlaturbed. (Van, Va1kenbnrg
v. Ronk, 12 Johns. 8:H.) Staoy v. Roaa, Tyler T. jj Tea:. 6.. U the sult be nron a lost note, both the 
esecutton and o.s!l1mment (when alll!lgned) are pnt In ll!!lue by a general denla without oath. Erskine 
T. Wilson, 20 TeiL 80. And fr atllll1tnei<I by DD heir, bla authority muat be proved. Id. Ir the tnstrument be 
alle,:ed to be lost or dcstroyt>d, the t!Xlstence and contents may be proved by parol; and whel'fl It ta not negollablc, a tender of \nclemnlty 111 not neeessary ; the court will eo control the evidence a& to guBl'fl a,::alnat fraud 
and Iurpoeitlon, (McSalr T. t;\lbert. 8 Wl'nd. S.U; Walmaly v. Child, 1 Vesey, Ml; Long v. Baillie., 2 Camp- 
b.!11, 2U, n.; Jones v. Falt'I!, 5 MMs. 101 ; Kennl'r v. The Bank., 9 Wbeat. ll8L) Hawkins v. Steven10n, Dallam! 
MS. 569. The question of execution or not 111 one ror the Jory; and where the derendant doee not plead non us 
fadum_ it 11 a etreumetaaee a,alnat him. Id. .And where the lnatrument wu declared on, and the aUomey
afterward11 lo11t it. an amendment aveninir the lo~ was held not to be neceeaary. (Smith v. Woodward, 4 Eut, 
~ which ill overruled by Renner v. The Bank, 9 Wheat.. 681, which latter C8l!6 this court tollowed.) Id. 660, ML 
If a party write bis name In any pert of the agreement, It may be taken u hie 11lgnatnre, provided it wu there
written for the purpose of givln« authenticity to the tnstrnment, and thna operating aa a 11lgnature. (2 Panon1
on Contracts, 287; Johnson v. Dodson, 2 M. & W. MS; Merritt v. C:laaon, 12 JohnL 102; Balley T. Voorbela, 
14 JohnL 43'; Penniman v. Hal'tllhorn, 18 Mu1'. 87.) Fulshear v. Randon, 18 TeL 27i. The party, In such
euee, should pnt the t'Xecution In laaue, by pie.a under oath. Id.: Prince v. Tbomp1CJn, 21 Tex. 481. Under the 
1;eneral _ tasue, without oath, there rould have h<-eo no proof that these instruments (the note and mortgage 
dec:lart"CI on) were not uecuted ae cllallted In the petition; for the plea was not sworn to. Pearce v. Bell, il 
Tex. 691; Drew v. Harrlaon. 12 Tex. ~1. Ancl if th(' Instrument be signed .. by ~nt.," the proof or the
authority of the a«ent can only be required by plt•n under oRth. Reid v. Reid, 11 Tex. 1192. Or by one partner 
f4)t' the fimL Drew v. llarrlson, 12 'l"'- 2Sl. A sworn plea by an administrator, that the note waa not the act
or deed of tho deccDSed, Is sufficient. Parr v. ,Johnston, Hi Tex. 20T. But he cannot Interrogate the plalntltl' Bl 
to wht'thlll' he rlld nut rorgc the note himself. lei. Thlt1 eeetion applies to a 11uit upon a title bond for specUlc
perl'ormance. Burleson v. Burle!IOn, 16 Tex. 428. And to a receipt of the plalntUf, dt>clared on by a aworn 
plea of the defendant. Kt'IIV v. Kelly, 12 Tl'X. 4l>&. And unless the icennlnOJ1c-111 be pot In t»ne by repllcation
or amendmt'nt.. the court and jury have no right to disregard the instrument. lei. Ir the partr la charv:ed with 
ba\·lng e:s~ntc,1 an Bjlrooment ln writing, upon which the suit 111 founded In whole or ln part. he will not be
hl"IU'd to -,nestlon hl11 having made such an agreement, nnle11 be denies it under oath. Prince v. Thompaon, 
21 Tt>x. 4.'11. Evl'n though they are two ln11trument1 which are rejMrde<l In law aa one. Id. Fulshear 'Y, 
1t,m1fom. 1,:i T"lt. 2'i5: for lnttPrft 11r'knnwlNl~n1t lndehtoon-. OIOle T, Jad10n, M Tex. 289.l
After the dtuolotlon or the partnenibtp, one of toe partnM'II cannot lrnl)Olk' new obltgationa OJ)OD the firm, or 
vary the form or charactllr o( thoee already exl11tlnp;. \ll Kent"s Com. 72.) Nor lnclol"l!I(' a note in the name ortbe 
1lm1,P.TeD to pay u prior debt thel'l.lor. (Hnmphriel! v. ChMtnln.11 GL 166.) And ap:eneral authority of one partner,
upon dlaeolutlon_ to settle the buslnest1 of the ftrm. 110<-s not "uthorlze him to i:tve a note Ir, the name or the 
firm, tor a ftrm dt'bt, or to renew ono irlvl'D b<'rore the dls.'!OluUnn. (8 Kent, 73, note11.) Whlw v, Tudor. M
Tex. &11. Bot where the dl11wl11tlon Wl\8 ~t. an<I theN I!! no evidence that the pN.'vlous creditor bad notloe 
ol 11, when he took the note In liquidation of hl11 account, tho rules u to a dluolved ~rm do Qot applT, Tador
•· White, Galv.-Anstln T. 27 Tex. :ils."l. Where the note waa signed by 11,n agent, aad tton ut fadum 
waa plNCled, the execution by the nfl'ent, and his authority, mn11t ·be pro\ie<I. (Ellis v. Planters• BRnlt, T 
How. 236; Anirtln v. Townes, 10 Tn. 80, 81; Grocnl. Ev. 1~.) B~h.,..l\r v. Martin. 25 Tex. lil8S.. Wht1re
tbe defendant was sued aa II member or the firm of C. 8. & Vo., an,! be plead,;. 11p .. eblly, without oath. Lb.at 
be neTer waeamember ofr.aul llrm, the plea le, In cffeol., flDB ~, {(~!Im, 1&n,I may be tr .. ata,I as a nullity.
(Dre"· v. llarrl~on, 12 Ti-x. l!ill.) l'c·f'tlu1111 v. fo'ruH, :t."> 'l't-x. Suri•· 129. Thi" sertlon tlh11,.·nee1 with the 
llt,C.C"8ltv o( 1.r11,·ing th .. l'Xt'i:u, Ion of th,• i11,.rr11111t·111s ~u,·,I on, ,vh._.r,, th,•n· i~ nu <l,·rd:sl 111 .. h·r 11:ith: bnt not of 
L'"'tlncing an•I filing Lhem. Arm~t.-11111{ v. Lir.,-c .. 111h, 11 T,·~ o."H; Kinn,ml v, 11._.:·lue1<. :'W l\·x. ,...,. !!11',in~on ,·.
Brtn11<>n, ld. '40; Lewin v. Uouai.on, ii 1'ex. 116; Abl~ v, Ciumdier, l.l 'l'ex, ~i ~awasy v. l'roah:_ 11 TeL 618; 
We&toott v. Menard, Dallam, 6°' · Bedwell v. Thompson, i6 Tex. SUI!P· 946. It it be produced, tbo lnad·
vertent omission to read It to the Jury Is of no consequence, Cocke v. Hart, lS Tex. 6.'16. The general dental, 
Without oath. cannot be ti·t>atell u a nullity. Bedwell v. Thompson, ~ Tex. Supp. 241>. And It loet, the
watence and contenta ahouJd be proven. Armstrong v. Ltpseomb, 11 Tu. 661. And the execution. Robin­ 
llOD T. Brinson. 20 'fex, 440. The general 1811ue to such suits, for some purposes, 111 a good plea, altboueb no\
aworn to. (Gue58 v. Lubbock, I> Tex. 686.) Id. This eectler, regulates the evidence., not the pleading. Robln­ 
aon v. Brinson. 20 Tex. 440. It the defendant does not plead- the general taaue, but plew payment, the
production ot the note ts not neceaaary. M.ator.sy v. Frosh, 9 Tex. 618. 
AnT. 1444. (743) [88] In suits brought by partners, it shall not be neces­
sary to prove the partnership, unless the defendant shall in his answer deny
that the plaintifffs are partners, or carry on business as described in the
petition, which denial shall not be admitted or received unless verified by
the affidavit of the party making it. 
550. A note gtven in the flrm name, tor the sepsrate debt or one of the partllera, 111 not blndlnz upon the 
other. Burleigh v. Parton. 21 Tex. 686. A oondltlonal promise or the partner not bound, is not binding nnleu
the contingency happen. Id. Where partnt!rs are sued. the defendanta. who dleclalmed the obll1t11tioii ot the 
note, must prove that It WM given for the lndlvhlual debt of their co-partner: then It devolves on the plaintUI' 
to prove their acquiescence. Powell v. Mel!>ser, IS Tex. 407. When the plea denying_ the J)&rtnership b not
verlftetl by affidavit., the affidavit cannot be appended without the leave ot the court, Lee v. Hamilton, 12 Tex.
ill. Each partner baa the right to receive money or property In the payment or debts; and when received by
one, In due course of bustaess, or wtth the knowledge of the other without obJectloDf auch payment in labor or 
property, will operate a.a a discharge. Id. 418. 
ABT. 1445. (694) (351 No paper shall be considered as filed in the pro­
ceedings of any cause, un1ess the clerk shall have iodorsed thereon the day
on which it was filed, and sign his name thereto. 
5 51. This !11 the first law in Texas, which required a paper to be lndorsed "flied." Clow v. Winfield., lli
Tex. 451. Prevlonsly, th<' Indorsement wa.a with the file number, and also a number or !ta own. LN, v. Whar­ 
ton, 11 Tex, 78. No pnper I~ in fact 111ed. until it Is left with the clerk to remala tor the inspeetlon or the other
party. Beale v. AltJxaml<'r, 6 Tex. Ml. Deposited with the custodian. Holman v. Chevalllier, 14 Tex. 337. U 
the court took action on the paper, It 11 presumed to have been lllt>d, though not eo marked in the tn.nacrlpt..
Knl,zht v. Holloman, 6 Tex. 158. An entry on the record Is better evidence than the tndoracment. Hc.pkiwl v.
Donaho, 4 Tex. 836; Jewett v. Hiller, 19 Tex. 200; Oalnea v. Salmon, 16 Tex. 812. 
§ 1446. (702) [ 43] In all cases where minors may be defendants to a
suit, and it shall be shown to the court that such minors have no guardians
within the state, it shall be the duty of the court to appoint a guardian to
such minors, for the purpose of defending such suit. 
552. Where the record shows that one of the heirs was a minor, In a 11nit for specific pertormanoe or 
oompensat.lon in damagea, and no guardian ad lium was appointed, it ta error for which the judgment wtll be 
revel"9ed. Taylor v. Rowland, Austin T. 26 Tex. 2011. Thia la aubatanUally a re-enactment ot the MOIJll4 NO
Uon ottbe nct or 1888. Thomae v. Jones, 10 Tex. M. 
ABT. 1447. ('103) (44] Suits for title, or for the possession of lands, or
for any right attached to or growing out of the same, or for any injury
or damage done thereto, may rhe] instituted by executors, administrators, or
guardians, in like manner as they could have been by their testator or int-es­
tate, and judgment in such cases shall be as conclusive as if rendered in
favor of their testator or intestate : Provided, however, that such judgment
may be set aside by any person interested, for fraud or collusion on the part
of such executor or administrator. 
DISCONTINUANCE.
ABT. 1448. (704) [ 45] When there are several defendants in a suit, and 
some of them are served with process, in due time, and others not so served,
the plaintifff ma.y either discontinue, as to those not so served, and proceed
against those that are, or he may continue the suit until the next term of
the court, and take new process against those not served ; and no defendant
against whom any suit may be discontinued, according to the provision of
this section, shall be thereby exonerated from any liability, under which he
was, but may at any time be proceeded against, as if no such suit had been
brought, and no such discontinuance entered as to such defendant: Provided,
that this section shall not be so construed as to allow a plaintifff to discon­
tinue, as to the principal, and take judgment against the indorser, or surety, 
[ who is] jointly sued. 
553. Thia right to discontinue does not apply to" 1Ci1"1JOA/.a,to revive a dormant judgment. Canon v.
Moore, 23 Tex. 4:11. Where there waa no formal dteconttnnsnce as to one maker of a note nut served. the other
who was served and plead, cannot complain or the failure to discontinue. Reynolds v. Adame, 8 Tcx.16i. The 
.ffitb and 4ath aectlona quoted and compared. Look v. Benderson, 4 Tex. 304. Where two milkers and the
lndorser of a note were sued, the plalntlfl' cannot dtsconttnue aa to one of the makers, not served. who ta not 
brought within the exception ot the 4th section. ld. 308. But where a party need not have been joined. Qr
where It may be dealrable to dismlas one of several defendants, and the llabtllty of the def1•ndant11 itl such, that
an action can be maintained against the other lletendAnt&, without joining him, the plaintifff may enter a ,wl/1 
proteqm aa to him, and have judgment ngainft the other defendants, (Austin v. ,Jordan. C Tex. 180.) Cook T. 
Phillipa, 18 Tex. 82: Dean v."'Duffield, 8 Tex. 287. So that It does not prejudice the other deCen1tant11' right<!.
White v. Leav!Lt, 20 Tex. 706. The conflicting common law authorf tics. pertlculnrtj' 1 Chi tty's Pl. p. 00, and
Minor v. The Mechanics' Bank, 1 Pct, 46. reviewed. Austin\"', Jordan. I'> Tex. I~ And see Walkl'rv. Collins. 22 
Tex. 192; Horton v. Wheeler, 17 Tex. M. Hut see Sllllvant v. Thorn, I'> Ark. 1« (where tl great number <>f 
authorities were l'E'Vlewed, and It was held, that there wu no ri~llt, In an action founded upon contract, to 111:;. 
eoatlnne as tJ> a defl.'ndant who bad been eerved with preeess, unleaa be pleaded a personal dlsch~. after the
eo11tract). Where the note 1howl'll, on Its face, that one or the 11lgnera waa principal and (he others 11.'rortttea. 
the plllintUr 11 not allowed to dlseontfnue aa to the pnnclpal not 11erved, and have judgment by default aplnat
tbt- !t'("Urity served, Crawford v. Jones, 24 Tex. ffl. W here there bad only been servtee u to o. part or the
maken or a note, and no discontinuance, but Judgment by default against all, the defendant In error may confe11 
errors In the supreme court, as to the makers not served. and have an afflrmance or judgment u to the others,
S.ff'old v. Na\"arro, 15 TeL 77; Chandler v. Tanner, 20 Tex, 1. The discontinuance u to one defendant. must
not be so exercised u to Impair the rlgbta or the otht-r defendants, and place them In a worse condition. Horton 
.,., WhNler, 17 TeL r.6. As wheN two, li\"lng in different counties, are Joined; tr the dlamlssal 111 u to the resident
defendant, lt will operate a11 a dl11ml1aal aa to the others, (Benderson v. Ki&llam, 8 Tex. 46.) Horton v. Wheeler,
ti Tex. 66. And this ls so, whether the dlecontlnuanee ls In factor eff'ect; as where the party 11 dPclart>d a,ralnat 
aa administrator, to bring him within the fifth exception or the first section or the judiciary act. and after plea,
tb.e petition 111 altered to declare again at him perM>nally. Henderson Y. KISMDJ, 6 Tex. M. Thia section recog­
nizes the right or the 11lalnti1f to enter a dlseontlauanee, aa to defendants not served, In all suits, no matter
whotht>r they be on tort or contract, or whether the obligation be Joint, on which all the obll,rors moat, at common
law, be sued Jointly, &c. Forbes v. Davie. 18 Tex. 274; Ellis v. Park, 8 Tex. 206. All di11tlnctlon1 or this char­ 
acter are swept llway by the statute, and the only test Is. wbl.'tber the defendants have or havt! not beeu cltf>d In
conformity with law. Forbes v. Davte, IS Tex. 274. The dlseonttnnance may be made u well after u before
Yerdlct. Id. It servtee bad been perfected on him, there would be error In permitting the dlscontlnuance, even 
I( the parties were not IIDl'd 11,a husband and wife. Parker v. Hodgood, 16 Tex. 250. Where three 11·eu, sued,
and two acknowledged service, and the other waa not served, and there wu no dlecontinnanco as to him,._and a 
jndgment against the defendanta wu rendered, It wu erroneous as to all Hulme v. Janee., 6 Tex. 242. .asut II
two go to trial, and no notice be taken or the one not served, ft amounts to a discontinuance. Houston v. Ward,
8 Tex. 124. This seetton embraces partners, Md all others, not embraced In the exceptions or the <&th and <&11th 
eec:tiont or tll1! act. (Wllllamav. MeNelll, ~ TeL 881.) Hawkins v. Tlnnen, 10 Tex. 188. 
§ 1449. (705) ( 46] The principal and the indorser or surety, upon
any instrument in writmg, may be joined in the same suit; but no judgment
in any such suit shall be rendered against the indorser or surety, unless judg­
ment is at the same time rendered against the princi~al, except where the
plaintifff discontinues as to the principal, because he resides beyond the limits 
of the state, or because he is insolvent, in which cases he may discontinue and
take judgment. 
5 54. A motion against a eherlft' and hl11 sureties, ta a suit; within the 4th and 46th !K'Ctlons ortbls act. And
the plainti11' may diacoritlnue u to the principal, who la out ortbo state. Poor v. Brown, 24 Tex. 87. Where a 
judgment had been reversed In the supreme court, and part or the defendants bad never been served with pro­
ceea, the plaintifff may, upon the filing or the mandate, dlecontlnne aa to those not served, and take JudgmPnt
by default against those who bad been served, without further notice to them, even though the mandate hail been
ftlt'd aJter the commencement or the term. Underhill v. Thom11.11, 24 'I'ex. 284. Where the defendant, served 
wtt.h process, pleaded in reconvention again&t the plaintifff' and hla co-defendant, not served, but took no 11tepe 
to bring hhl co-defendant ,ln, he cannot complain or a dlscontlnuanoe 811 to sucb co-defendant. Home v. Black,
t4 Tex. 294. The petition must aver the exception, or the dtscontlnuanee will not be allowed. Rutherford v.
Harris, 22 Tex. 167. This seeuon compared with the 4th. (Cook v. Comellua, 18 Tex. 808.) Id. Sult may be
tnatituted In the county of the restdence ot MY one or the defendants., and the others be brought In by branch 
cttatlon11. Raymond v. Holmes, 11 Tex. M; Randon v. Barton, 4 Tex. 292. A plalutltf, however, won Id not
be permitted to abuse the privlleie by a flctitloua lndorsement, made for the purpoee or brln,iing the real _partiea 
tor trial out or their own counties or residence. (Pool v. Pickett, 8 Tex. 122.) Raymond v. llolmes,. 11 Tex. OS.. 
No traodulent contrivance most be resorted to. Pool Y. Pickett.. 8 TeL 128. But the plea to the Jurisdiction 
must be acted on in the court below. Id. [To be construed with arta. 4 and 1426. Aldridge v. llar­ 
doff; 32 Te&. 207.] 
§ 1450. (706) [ 47) Where there are several defendants in a suit, and
some of them appear and answer, and others make default, an interlocutory 
judgment by default may be entered against those who do not answer, and
the cause may proceed against the others ; but only one final judgment shall 
be given in the suit. 
&&5. Whether one partner can appear for all, 111 doubtrnl. And certainly the answer or one, will not be
taken for the answer or those not aened. Bright v. Sampson, 20 Tex. 23. This sectton provides that an Inter­
locutory judgment may be taken, not that It ,haU be done. Peters v. Crtttenden, 8 Tex. 188. When the ftn:tl 
judgment is rendered, the prior Interlocutory Judirment becomes Immaterial. Id. Notblnit more 18 required
ihan that final Judgment, by ,lefault.., shall be taken at the aame time with the judgment UJIOn the verdict. or
trial upon the i11&ue presented by the answer. Burton v. Varnell, 5 Tex. 140. Thi& section baa no reference to 
dl&e0ntinuances, &c.. Nor can one who bu confessed Judgment, avail blmaelt ot an lrrcinlarity under it. (See
eeetion 117 or thl1 act.) Id. • 
MOTIONS.
§ 1453. (711) f53] There shall be a motion docket, to be kept by the 
clerk, in which he shall enter all motions :filed in the court; the number of
the suit in which they are made, if it relates to a suit pending; the names of
the parties, and their attorneys, with a brief statement of the nature of the 
motion. 
CONSOLIDATION. 
§ 1451. (707) [ 48] Whenever several suits may be pending in the 
same court, by the same plaintifff, against the same defendant, for causes of
action which may be joined, or where several suits are pending in the same
court, for the same plaintifff, against several defendants, which may be joined,
the court in which the same are pending, may, in its discretion, order such 
suits to be consolidated. . 
§ 1452. (708) [ 49] When any plaintifff shall bring, in the same court,
several suits against the same defendant or defendants, for causes of action
which may be joined, he shall recover the costs of one action only ; and the
costs of the other actions shall be adjudged against him, unless sufficient
reason appear to the court, for instituting several actions. 
§ 1454. ('112) [541 All motions relating to a suit pending, which do 
not go to the merits of the case., may be disposed of at any time before the
trial of the cause ; but no motion in the nature of a general demurrer, or 
which relates to the merits of the case, shall be decided before the cause is
called in regular order for trial. 
556. Tbla Sflction comt>llttd 'll"lth section 1M about lnjunctiona. Hoston v. :&n-v, 8 TeL 288. A motion 
to dla!lrllve an lDJunctlon, but not to dl1mlu an injunction au1t, may bo dlapoeed ot before the case 11 regularl7 
reached. Id. 
§ 1465. (713) r55) All motions, not relating to a suit pending,
shall be taken up an«l disposed of in the order as other suits are required
to be. 
§ 1456. {714) f56] In all appeals from a justice's court to the district court, all of the 
original papers, together with the appeal bond, and a certified copy of tho record of the pro­ 
ceedings before such justice, shall be filed with the clerk of the district court, oo or before the 
first day of the term to which such appeal is taken; all such appeals shall be tried <k flOt'O, but
neither party shall introduce any claim that was not before the justice on the trial below; and upon
the call of the docket by the judge on the second day after the meeting of the court, if no ap­ 
pearance is entered on the docket for the defendant in the original suit, a judgment by default
shall be entered against him, and if no appearance has been entered on the docket for the de­
fendant before the expiration of the third day after the meeting of the court, the plaintifff mny, 
on or after tho fourth day, have such judgment made final; and if the demand is certain, and
proven by any instrument of writing, the judge or clerk shall issue [assess?] the damage to the
plaintifff; if otherwise, then the damage shall be assessed by a jury i in all such appeals, where
an appearance [is] entered on the docket, for the defendant, before the expiration of the third
day, they shall be taken up and disposed of in regular order. 
557. Althootth the appeal bu been bf'ld to be unconstitutional. yf't the practice upon the cwtlorar"i la eo 
analogous to this section, that it wu thought beat to retain lt.-ED. See CBR'?IOIU.IU, for the cltatJon of thls see­
tlon, a11d the rule aa for trying only sneh matters ln the district oourt, 1111 were trlod In the juttlce'11 court, Clnrk 
"· Mnow, 24 Tex. 242. The partl01111tand not aa appellant and sppellee, but u plaintifff" nnd defendant, In the
district court. Pt>rry v. McKin.lle, 4 Tex. JM. An objection to the mode or serving the 1ummons, aaun<>t be 
beard in the district court. Id. 
APPEALS FROM JUSTICES. 
§ 1457. (715) [57] In the trial of appeals from Justices' courts, when either party shall·
make oath, that he has no other evidence to prove any fact material to the prosecution or de­
fence of his suit, except his own oath, he shall be sworn and examined touching such facts;
and the opposite party, in such cases, ehall have the privilege of being sworn as to tho same
.facts. 
558. But It there ,vu another wltneaa, u the J)llyee or the note (even thongh oat or the 11tntf'). tho party
cannot be his own wltneaa. (Crosier v. Kirker, 4 Tex. 2."16.) Robertson v. Smith, 11 T<'x. !?11. The r,srty m111-t 
bring hlmllt!lt within the provtaluns or the 11tatute. McGt-e v. Currlf', 4 Tex. 220; Hipp v. Biseell, l3 T e x. 1&
And tr the known wltnesa be too drunk to awear, that fact must be proven by oath. Id. The party must first.. ln 
a prellmlna.ry examination, atllU! the fact11 which be proposee to swear to; and the examination must be con­
fined to these racta. Crozier v. Kirker, 4 Tex. 266. The court must not leave It to the jury to determine whether
the party could have proven the same 1hct.a by any other wttne111. Id. Hla oath of want or knowledge, will
be prsma facu aufflclent to admit his testimony; but If, on cross examination, It appeer thnt the proposed fsct
could be proved by any other wltneu, bis evldene, abould be excluded. Johnson v. Ward, 21 TeL 411. 
§ 1458. (71&) [58] In appeals from justices' courts taken by the party against whom
the judgment below was rendered, when the judgment of the district court shall be &.gainst
him for the same or a greater amount than the judgment of tho court below, the district court
shall add ten per cent. damage on the amount of the judgment below, and costs in both courts ;
but if the judgment of the district court shall be against him for a less amount than the
judgment below, then the appellant [ appellee] shall recover his costs only in the court below,
and shall pay the costs of the district court ; when the appeal is taken by tho party in whose
favor tbe judgment below is rendered, and the judgment of the district court is for a greater
amount than the judgment below, he shall recover his costs in both courts; but if the judgment
of the dietrict court be in his favor, for the same or lees amount than the judgment below, he
shall recover costs only below, and shall pay the eoata of the district court. 
5 59. This aectton applies to cues brought up by urtlorari.. McGowen v. Bush, lT Tex. 19G; Hotchkt• "· 
Cbevalllier, 12 Tex. 226. Where the dletrlct oonrt rendered Judgment agalnat the defcndnnt tor the amount due
upon a juatlcea' Juci,rment, the coats ot both trials ebould be &l\"arded against the defendant. Id. Whore the 
appeal wu taken bel'ore t.he adoption ot t.he atate conatltotton, It was not controlled by T1tos v. Lattmor (~ TeL 
488), but by 8111111e "· Schmidt (6 Tex. 147~ Nelson T. Strahan, 7 Tex. 688. To make sense or this 8CC1.lon, the
word" appellant" must be read "appellee. Id. IS84. The dlatrlct oonrt cannot award a 1)'l"OCMM&do t.o the Juatloe. 
but abould proceed to render Judgment under tbla section. Wahrenberger v. Horan, 2 Tex. 29L The appeal
had been dlamleaed, and apr~do awarded; which Judgment the supreme oonrt rneraed., o.nd rendered•
Judgment tor the note and tta contents, and ten p,_ CMai. dam.l«ea. Jd. But that Judgment wu without
authority and void. Horan v. Wahrenberger, t Tex. 819. And the iberi1r'1 ale under It wu void. Id. 
ABT. 1459. {717) (59] In appeals from justices' courts taken by either party to the suit,
when the judgment of the district oourt is for the same or greater amount against the appellant
than the judgment of the court below, it sbaJ.l be rendered jointly and severally against all the
obllgors in the appeal bond. 
APPEALS FROM COUNTY COURTS. 
ABT. 1460. (718) [60] In all appeals from probate courts to the district
court, a complete transcript of the record, and of all the proceedings had
in the cause below, oertified under the hand and seal of the clerk of the 
probate court, shall be filed with the clerk of the district court, on or before
the first day of the term to which such a{>peal is taken; and all such
appeals shall be tried de novo ; upon the application of either party to such
appeals, it shall be the duty of the clerk of the district court to issue a 
subpoena duces tecum for the clerk of the probate court to bring into tne
district court, on the trial of such appeal, all original papers in his office
which may be needed on such trial. All judgments upon appeals from 
probate courts shall be certified to the probate court to be carried into 
effect, 
560. Repeated declslon11 of this court have settled that an appeal docs not lie from a tribunal having a
11pecial and limited authority conferred on tt by etstnte, unl(Jt18 tt ls expresaly provided for. Tn11look v. The TeXAS 
Monumental Committee, 21 TeL 16T. The authority conferred upon the chk.f' justice of the county, by the
bankrupt act or the 19th of January, tsn (p, 109 d ,eq.). ts a IIJH'clnl and limited authority, and no appeal ts
authorized. Id. (Thl11 section oompnred with Hllrt. arts. 812 and 1282.) Moore v. Hnrdll!On, 10 Tox. -'11. In
alt the revlslona the caae may be tried tU 1WflO upon the facts, as upon appeals. Id. (Newson v. Urlsman. 9 Tex.
118.) Moore v. HardlSQD, 10 Tex. 471. Upon ap~ tho parties occupy relatively the same position they did
in tho court below, and the case is tried d• 11,()f)O, Hall v. Claiborne, ll7 Tex. ffi. 
AnT. 1461. ('748) [93] All suits in which answers are filed in due time,
shall be tried or disposed of in the order in which they stand on the docket, 
or were filed. unless otherwise ordered bv the court, with the consent of the
parties or their attorneys. [Relates to criminal as well as to civil cases •. 
Thomas v. The State, 36 Tex. 317.) 
PRACTICE. 
§ 1462. (749) [95] If from any cause a district court shall not be 
held at the time prescribed by law, or if from any cause the business before
the court be not determined before the adjournment thereof, such business,
of whatsoever nature, so undetermined, shall stand continued until the next
succeeding term. 
ABT. 1463. (750) [96] Whenever in the commencement or progress of
any suit, it shall be necessary to serve any notice on an:y party to such suit,
such notice may be served either by an officer authorized by law to serve
original process of the court in which suit is brought or may be pending, or 
by any person who would be a competent witness upon the trial of such suit;
every such notice may be served in Jike manner &R an original writ, either on
the party or his attorney of record; and the return of such notice, when 
made by an officer, or when made by any other person, and verified by the
affidavit of such person, shall be received as evidence of the facts therein con- 
tained, subject however to be repelled by contrary proof. 
5 61. The defendants in execution are entitled to notlee of a motion to set aside an entry of sattsfllctton.
De Witt v. Monroe, 20 TcL 298. This ls a fundamental frlnclple. uppllcable to all proc.eedfnge or a court or 
[asttce, at every etairc of their progN'S!. (Toler v. Ayers, Tex. 808; McKinney v. ,Jones, 'l Tex. t!98; Lasselle 
T. Moore, 1 Bl11ekt: 2'16.) Id. The defendanta to a judgment, after Its rendition_.~ not presumed to be In oourt
aud cognizant or Its proceedings, 1\8 they are after an appeamncc, and before Juugment. Id. The giving notice 
of an apJ>e&l does not operate as appeerance, where notice or a motion WM necesaary. (McKinney v. Jonee 7
Tex. 1199.) Nor does the lljCl"Cetng to a 11tntement of theta by Attorney. Id. So It there haa been a sale, the 
purchA8or and plaintifff' ought to have notloo or n motion to set utde the eale. (Toler v. Ayre&, 1 Tex. 898.) Id. 
THE CHARGE. 
§ 1464. r99] [No plaintifff shall be permitted to suffer a non-suit after
the jury retire l'rom the bar ;*but after argument of a cause, the judge may
deliver a charge to them on the law of the case . under the following
restrictions, viz. :-He shall not in any case, civil or criminal, charge or com­
ment . on the weight of evidence. He shall so frame his charge so as to
submit questions df fact solely to the decision of the jury, deciding on and
instructing them as to the law arising on the facts-distinctly separating
questions of law from questions of fact. He shall not charge, or instruct the 
Jury in any case, unless the charge shall have been by him first reduced to
writing, and signed; and every such charge or instruction shall be given in
the precise words in which it shall have been written. .All charges or
instructions, whether given by the judge of his own accord, or upon request
of counsel or parties, may be carried from the bar by the jury in their retire­
ment; and no judge shall in any case make any further charge, unless on the 
&f plication of the jury, or a party, or his counsel.] , 
582. The repealed section was tdentfc.'\l down to the words" qnestlons of tact,,, all after which ts added.
Bee Bn.L OF ExCKPTto,rs t'or Bpwial i118'ruction11, The court cannt>t compel a plaintifff to ta.Im a 
1remptory
DOD·llult. (C'rane v. Morris, 6 Pct. 098; De Wolf v. Roland, 1 Pet. 497; Elmore T. Grimes, 1 Pet. -'Tl. Guest"· 
Ouet1t.. Dallam.894; approved McGUl '"· Delaplaln, Dnllnm,494. And see Martin v. Webb,6 Ark. T4. n tblscaee,
rt l8 Mid that the eorrect motion 111 to instruct the Jury, that tr the evklenee h1111 not proved a matter nece881U'f to 
Le proven, they most flnd for the defendant. The judge must not submit to the jury tho question whether the 
111atute of llmltntlons 111 pleaded or not, hut wh<'rc It Is pleaded, he m1111t aay so. Hrnrlshnw v. Mayfield, 2" Tex.
48!. Wht>rl' the proof wn11 that property transferred still remalued with the vendor. aner the conveyance. It wu not 
[•Even where the <luf1.·11daut 1111:-1 plcnded in reconvout ion. Frois v. Mayfil•l•I, at l'uxl :~7.J 
Goog e 
error to obmte that this wu, prima facu, evidence or traull Gibson v. Bill 21 Tt-x. 228. Buch y,oMeaton 
Wll.8 primafacid evlilence or fraud, 1111 o. matter or law. (Bryant v. Kelton, 1 TeL 4rn.) Id. And It wa.s error
to refuse to 110 specially Instruct the jury. Milla v. Walton, 19 Tex. 2,2. The prim,1 /aci, pr .. aumt•tion ma:,
be rebutted by proof or foirne1111. ( Bryant v. Kelton, 1 Tex. 415; McQulnn11y v. Httehcoek, B Tex. 88./ Id. Tho
court should nut tell the jnry to llnd for the plaintifff' or defendant. &ynolda T. Wilihuna, 1 Tex. 81:... Wht>re 
the appellant !:,lied to ask Instructions upon the queatlon of fraud, be cannot object that thf'y were not given, if
tho ,reneral charge w1'8 unexceptionable. Chamblee v. Tarbox, Auatin 'I', 27 Tex. U6. But where the charge,
In etf,·ct. excluded mnterinl conclusions to be deduced from the evidence, It la error, without counter Instrue­
ttons having been r.resented. Id. It Is the prscuce of thill court to reverse the judgment, whenever there is aJI 
erroneous Instruct on upon a mattorial point, which may have Influenced the jury, although the evidence may
appear to us to be sutt!clent to sustatn the verdict. Bail,•y T. Mllls. Galv.-Austln T. 27 Tex. 48S; Blnncbet
v. Davia., 8 Tex. 142.. But not where the proposition la abstnct and Immaterial. and did not injure. ,loll('& T. 
Thurmond, I> Tex. 829. Ir the court charge upon an tssue not made by the pleadings, aml the jury !l{l('Clally find
upon that Issue, the judgment will not be reversed, If sustatned by other lasneR which produced the same result. 
Oliver v, Chapman, lf> Tex. 406. The court must not assume the facts. lfo~t·r,1 v. Broadnax, 24 Tr-x . ."148; 
Thomas v. Ingram, 20 Tex. 72S; Gav v. MeOuffln, 9 Tex. 50'2. Unless thev be written (11<:t,1,. all on one sule, and
enough to make out the case; then the judge msyaay !IO. Held v. Reid, 11 'rex. !I.I~; Mlkhcll v. Do Witt, 20 Tox. 
299; Nations v, Jones, Id. 802; Bond v. Mallow, 17 Tex. 688; Boddy v. Klni:~liury, I> Tex, lM; Parker v.
Lemon, 10 Tex. 119. It tho evidence of both parties concur as to a fact. the court mny charge the jurv IJ.8 to the
legal etrect. without" hypothesis. Hedgepetli v. Robertson, 19 Tex. Si'l; Bond v. ~Jallow, 17 Tex, 637. It ta 
error to give tnetrucrtons "bout which there ia no evidence. Chandler v, Van Roeder (rrom Tex.), 2-l How.'""­
Or to refuse to tnstruct the jury that there ia no evidence. Id. Whether there be any evidence, Id a que!!tlon 
for the judge; whether there be aulliclent evidence, ls tor the jury. (Com. of Carpenters v. Haywood, Doug.
811>1 Jewell v. Parr, C. B. Id. 909.) And to the same eff'ect 111 Austin v, Talk, 20 Tex. 16'; Andrewa v. Smlth­ 
wlcK, Id. 118; Steagall v. McKell:1r, Id. 26.S; Chandler v. Fnlton, 10 Tex. 21, 22; Lea v. Hernandez, Id. 187;
Parker v, Lemon, Id, 116; Wintz v. Morrison, 17 Tex. 8T2. A charge must not be In the abstract, when not
w1UT1U1ted bv the evidence. 'I'hompeon v. ShAnnon, 9 Tex. l'.137; McGreal v. Wilson, Id. 429; Wheeler T. 
Moody.., Id. 872; Do.via v. Lot\in, 6 Tex. 492; Crozier v. Kirker, 4 Tex. 25'2; Spence v. Onstott, 8 TeL
147; LOve v, Wyatt, 19 Tex. 812; Hanoock v. Horsn, 15 Tex. ll()7; Hatch v. Garza, 22 TeL 187. 
The court must not charge upon the weight of evidence, but it may explain to the jury the re&Mna upon which
ft is rounded. Howerton v. Holt, 23 TeL 60. And to charl{oas to the eff'ect or written contrsets does not vi<Jlate 
the rule. San Antonio v. Lewis, 9 Tex. 71. A ehaege, even If erroneous, la not cause or reversal, I! ft follow the
plea, Fort v . Barnett, 28 Tex. 46'. No party can require more than that tho law be given upon the lssuea
made. Willis v. Bullitt, 22 Tex. 881; Castro v. Illies, Id. rot And he may require that muoh, wherever
there Is proof', however Insufficient, to sustain the Iseue. Gllk.oy v. Peeler, 2i Tex. 668. If there wll.8 error In 
the charge, yet tr the jury disregarded It, the judgment will not be reversed, Hubby v. Stoke", 22 Tex. 121.
Tho judge must charge the Jaw, and not leave general or particular eustoms to the jury. Green v. Hill, 4 Tex.
467. It la or little Importance whether the jury undeestood the charge or not, if they round acoordlng to the law
and evidence. Mcl>onald v, Hancock, Austin T. Dec. 1~; Alex. Dig. p. 296, sec. 28. It cannot be asslgned
as error, that the court omitted tnstruotlons which might with propriety have been glHn, when tl:.ey 'JOre not 
asked. Robinson v. Warnell, 16 Tex. 887. The rule In Armstrong v. Toler, 11 Whe11t. 2,6, quoted and approved,
Id. The court will generally presume in ra,·or ot the correctness of the charge, unless there be no general
cbarge in the record, and the court ha& refused a special Instruction which ought to have been given. Weisiger 
v. Chisholm. 22 Te:r. 672. Where the charge had been lost, the party objecting might have reproduced it by
bill of exeopttons, Ebom v. Cbote, 22 Tex. 84. An CJT(IJICOua proposftton In the charge of the court, which is
corrected In another part of the charg!J 80 aa to prevent the Jury being misled thereby, Is not a ground for re­ 
vel'!llng the judgment. (Mercer v. tall, 2 Tex. 2$4.) ~ly v. Birmingham, ~ 'fex. 458. Or iC, upon the
whole, the clmrire Is 1u favorable as the party complaining had the right to ask. Mercer v, Hall 2 Tex. ~
We have heretofore decided (upon the above amend11tory at•ctlon) that the mere omission of theJuditf! t-0ttduce
bis ch~e to writing, Is not error, for which the judgment will be reversed. (l~ld v. R(\ld. 11 Tex. l'>..'-5.) Chap­ 
man v. Sneed, 17 Tex. 48:l. 'fhe 11tatnt-0 is but airectory; and the judge Is responsible only to tho )('11,islnture,
ror disregarding It. Reid v. Reid, 11 Tex. f,98. Whore the jury returned Into court and reported that they could 
not agree. the oral remark or the judge, that a l'ull oonslderatlon or the evidence might enab)(' them to ~Te..·, is
not error. Carroll v. Evans, 27 TeL \!67. IC the charga is correct u far sa It goe11, but does n<>t cov~r the
whole law of tho case, apecial inat.ructions should be asked by the party deairing them. Farquhar v. Dallas.
20 Tex. 200; Thompson v. Payne, 21 TeL 6'l5; Linn v. Wrlgbt, 18 "Tex. 811, 840. Or tr it is contused or very
genernl. Bast v. Alford, 20 Tex. 229. And If the i,;encral charire be incorrect, objection ought to be raised at the
time It la given, to gt ve the judge an opportunlti to corrt1et 1t. Convene v. McKee, 14 'fex. SO; Tbstcher v.
Mills, Id. 16; Hall v. Stanoelf, 8 Tex. 401. Bnt the objection need not be uaken by blll o! exC('lptlonai the same 
purpo11e may be ftttalned by asking 11pecio.l tn11tructlons. Earl v. Thomas, 14 Tex. li98. And if eucn counter­
instructions be Intended to correct the error, although it do not state the whole law, it will stand as an exception
to the general charge. Id.; Lee v. Hamilton, 12 TeL 419. This conrt h1111 frequently declined to consider in·
struotlons which do not bear the signature or the Judge. Barnes v. Jamison, 24 Tex. 86'. So where they are not
pertinent. Id. The mere indorsement or the word "'given," or" retulled," will sufficiently show the rllspoaltlon
or the Instruction, and subject the ch~ to revision for error. (Crook T. MoGreal, 8 Tex. 491.) Thompso11 
v. Chumney, 8 TeL 894. It would be better that the Judge should sign, as la require,!, where a portion or the
oharge is gtnn and a portlon refused. Id. It ta right to refuse instructions which have already been embraced
In the geneml charge. Orumblee v. Grumbles, 17 Tex. 476. Also which a.re mt>re abatractlons. MeCown v. 
Schrimpf'. 21 Tex. 26; Gray v. Burk, 19 'l'ox. 282; Oliver v. Chapman, lo Tex. 409; Town or Ref'ngio v. Byrne. 
.nlv. T. 26 Tex. 1117. Or wbioh give undue prominence to iaolated facts. Gray v . .Burk, 19 Te:r. 282; Poll·ell
v. Me1111er, 18 Tex.~; Duff'ell v. Noble, 14 Tex. ~. A party cannot complain that the law was stated too 
strongly in his favor. Warren v. Smith. 24 Tex. 487. Or that the Judge gavo the insLructlons with proper quail·
flcatlona. Able v. Lee, 6 Tex, 480. Where tho court refuses to charge upon an Issue about whi<'h there la no 
prooC, it 111 not error. Smithwick v. Andrews, 24 Tex. 494; Garrett v. ()bAmblii;a., Id. 619. But If tht:>re la
evidence upon an Issue, 11nd the court retuae to charge upon such 11.'l!Ue, it Is error. Smithwick v. Andrews, 
24 Tex. 49:3; Norwood v. Boon, 21 Tex. 598. It is· error to give a charge which leaves to the jury a question
of law. Pierce v. Randolph, 12 Tex. 296. But not to retuae to charge particular 11ectlona of law Bvnn v 
Jackson, 11 Tex. 408. · 
THE VERDICT. 
§ 1465. ('158} [104] .After verdict of twelve men, judgment shall not
be stayed or reversed for want of form. 
li83. In a snit to rottc108fl a mortgage, there should be a finding as to tbt mortgage. (Patterson v. The
United States, 2 Wheat. 221.) Barnett v. Caruth, 22.Te:r. 114; B!edaoe v. Wills, 28 Tex. 661; May v. Taylor, 
ll2 Tex. Bro. The verdict must recite the sum round, and bo complete in ltael!. (Spiva v. Williama, 20 Tex.
442; Roberta v. Landrum, 20 Tex 1T4.) Barnett v. Caruth, 22 Tex. 174. And tr the Judl(lOent be rendered by 
the court upon n.'1 di.cU or an agreed judgment. the amount must be apeciflcally and cortnlnly round (Bayken 
v, The State, 8 Yerg. 426.i Harman v. Childress, Id. 827; Berry v. Anderson, 2 How. 649; Early v. Moore, 4
Mum!. 262.) Spiva Y. WulllUill!, 20 Tex. 443. An objection to the Jurors will not be heard after verdict. 
Boetge v. l'..anda, 22 Tex. 107. And after the jurors have been polled., and agreed to the verdict, au affidavit ot 
a juror, that he WM compelled by the foreman, will not be heard. Splva v. Wlll!11mt1, 20 Tex.~ The verdict
or decree cures all det'ect8, Imperfections, or omissions In the petition or statement of the causes or action,
whether or 11ub11tance or of' t'orm, tr the issues Joined be such as to require proof or the tl&cta, imperfectly_11t11ted
or omitted; though It will not cure or aid a st.atement or a defective title or cause of action. (De Witt v. 
Miller, 9 Tex. 289.) McLellan v. The St.ate, 22 Tex. 409.
The court cannot look to the evidence, on which the verdict wu round, In order to determine what jud,mien& 
to render; but muat look alone to tho verrllct. Claiborne v. Tnnner, 18 Tex. 78. The flncllng a mo.tter not In
IB&ue, carmot be the foundation ofBjndgment. Hardy v. De Leon,~ Tex. 289. Nor the finding of an lmmat..!rlal 
lasuel..l\lthough not excepted to. Ford T, Taggart, 4 'fex. 494. Tho verdict need not be al~ed. Burton v. Bon·
dies.¥ Tell:, 204. It 111 not necessary that the°judicment ehould state that the luror1 were iwom. or \hat all their 
l * Objcctlon1 at UJU tio111 are not alway11 nuc.:0<1Mry, Full review, Beasley v. Delll!Ou, 40 Tex. '3:l.] 
names ahould appear. Cla.rk v. Davl11, 7 Tex. ~. Ml. Tbe objection. that only the nome11 of eleven Jurors
appelU" in the verdict, Is entitled to no well!ht. Fo11ter v. Van Norman, 1 Tex. 638; Marlin v. Stookbrlcfgl\ 14. 
TeL lM.. Irthe verdict be delivered to the clerk rlu~ng recess by agreemcnt.und he merely defecttve, the jury
may be resseembled, and correct it. McKean v. Paechal, 16 Tex. 88. But after the jury have rendered a vt·r·
diet, and been dleperaed, It la too late to recall them and amend it. Sallnaa v. Stillman, Galv. T. ~ Tex, 17.
Before the Jury Is dlschargedl.lf they have decided the l88ne, thoy may be directed to complete the verdict. 
(M.cKe.nn v. Pnsch&l 16 Tex. 81 • SutieUl'e v. Gilbert, 8 Ohio, 406; 2 Gr. & Wat. on New Trials., Ml.) Id. Not 
to return a now verdict. Id. Wbere a jury 111 waived, and the court Is substttuted for a Jury in deciding upon
the tsauea ortact, the decision has the same conclusive eff'ect as the verdict of a jury. McFarland v. llnll. 17
Tex. 690; Bailey T, White, 18 Tex. 118; Gilliard v. Cheuney 18 Tex. U7. If the Christian names of the plain­ 
Wl's (who were a tlrm) appear in the _petttl•lU, it la not cssentta\ that they should appear in the judgment, though It
would be better. Haya v. Yarborough, 21 Tex. 488. The right to poll the Jury, upon their returning a verdict in
a civil case, dlseussed and Jen. open. Hancock v. Winans., 20 Tex. 826.. Admitting the right In i,?enernl, It can­
not be allowed where tho Jury, by consent, returned a sealed verdict and dispersed, Id. If a verdict ls fur too
much. remUtitur may be entered in the supreme court, or before the ease reaehes there. F<>11ter v. Van Norman, 
1 Tex. 688. Or the supreme court ma:, correct the error. (McNairy v. Castleberry, 6 Tex. 2'S6.) Grier v.
Powell, 14 Tex. 421. But If the party rreorta to the supreme court for the correction of a clerical mtsprleton, It
will not IJJl'ect the plaintifff"'s right to damages. Id. A Judgment, nuno pro tune, may be entered at o. sub­ 
eeqnent term. Jobnaon v. SmiUJ, 14 Tex. .is. 
§ 1466. {'759) [105] When there are several counts in a petition, and
entire damages are given, the verdict shall be good, notwithstanding one or
more of such counts may be defective. 
5 84. After verdict. tho court can only proceed to dispose oftt by rendering a Judgment, or setting it uide.
Blanchet v. Davis, 10 Tex. 168.. 
ABT. 1467. (760) [106] In all civil actions of assault and battery, or
slander, in the district court, if the jury find under the sum of twenty dollars,
the J?laintiff shall not recover costs, but each party shall be taxed with the
cost incurred by him. 
§ 1468. (761) [107] .A.11 vouchers, views, essoigns, and also trials by
wager of battle, and wager of law, shall stand repealed. 
ABT. 1469. (762) pos} In civil suits the jury may find and return a
special verdict in writing, m issues made up under the direction of the court,
declaring the facts proved to them; any verdict so found shall be conclusive
between the parties as to the facts found. 
565. A general verdict 111 a finding by the Jnry, In terms of the Issue or Issues submtttcd to them; and it
la whollv, or in part, for the plalntlfl' or defendant. (2 Tirld's Prscttce, 869.) Darden v. ~fatthowa, 2:t Tl·X. 824. 
"We (tho Jury) find for the plaintifff" (or, d cun"er,o) la the most usual fc,rm. Id. It must be certain, or
capable or being made certain, {Burton v. Anderson, 1 Tex. 180; Mays v. Lewis, 4 Tex. 38.) Smith v. John­
son, 8 Tex. 424; H11wkins v. Lee 22 Tex. 644; James v. Wilson, 7 Tex. 232; llorton v. I!cynoltls, 8 Tex. 294. 
Or can be explained and made certain by reference to the record. Avery v. ,\ Vl·ry, 12 Tex. OS; Parker v. Lemon,
10 Tex. 119. The court cannot look outside of the a11ecial verdict for a basis for the Judgment. Claiborn v. Tan­
ner, 18 Tex.. 79; Jackson v. The Stat<', 21 Tex. 676; Raines v. Calloway, Tyler T. 27 Tl'x. 694. Undl'r the
pleadiDl(I, Bast v. Alford, 20 Tex. 229. If It find the dates, the amounts, anrl the rate at which the lnt..r,·:11 111 
to run, tt la sufficiently certain. Darden v, Matthews, 2'.t Tex. 3'l~; Burton v. Andersou, 1 Tex. 97. Or hire,
from a certain date at ncertaln rate. Bradshaw v. Mayflehl, 24 Tex. 4!:ia; Wnrreu v. Suaith, 24 Tex, 487. •· The 
amoWlt. of the notes adduced In the case," ia not certain; "set out In the petition," would have been, Mays v.
Lewla,. 4. Tex. 4:1. In nctlons sounding in damages, in actions where dumagl'S niay be recovered lneldcutully,
ud in 'all actions of whatever character, where dates, amounts, and the like, are not usually stated accurntclyl 
and need not be proved as stated, there should nut only be n general tlndlng for the plnlntllf. but also n spccla
finding 1111 to the amount, Darden v. Matthews, 22 TeL ~- As In actions upon open accou nts, Harrell v. 
Babb, 19 Tex, 149. The verdict should be construed literally, not technlcally, 110 that it should, If posstble,
stand. Darden v. Matthews, 22 Tex. 826; Mays v. Lewis, 4 Tex. 4:1. It ls not neeessarv that it should flud all
the issues submitted. It need tlnd only those essential to the judgment, O'Brien v. Hllburn, 22 Tex. 6~. In 
a snit for foreclosure, a verdict .,for tho land set out In tho plalntl11''11 petition," where the petition only referred 
to a deed to be adduced on the trial, 111 Insufficient. Brown v, Horless, 22 Tex. 646. And see Bast v. Alford, 20
Tex. 229. When the &ult is to enforce the vendor's lien, the verdlet should specially find that the note was
,oven for the purchase money, or the judgment so lindln~. from other parte of the record, cannot bo sustained.
McConkey v. Henderson, 24 Tex. 214. lint in a suit to foreclose a mortgage, the note and murt.gaice, us todart 
being mado a part of the petltton ; and there being only a mo~e as tu the other part, which waa declare on,
the verdict waa "we, the jury, find for the plaintifff' the sum of fifteen hundred o.nd thirty dollars:" by looking to 
the pleadings, it Is manlfl·t1t that tho jury passed upon the mortgage, as well as the note, and must have equally
found 1n favor of the plaintifff upon them a& (or Ws debt. Pearce v. Bell, 21 Tex. 691. In such eases, the ploo.dinga 
may be consulted. (Galbreath v, Atkinson, 16 'I'ox, 24 · A very v. A very, 12 Tex.. 57; Moke v. Fellman, 17 Tex.
868i· Parker v. Leman, 10 Tex. 116; Jam<'!! v. Wilson, 7 Tex. 282: Simmons v, Randon, 9 Ga. 645; Beckwith v. 
Car ton, 14 Ga. 69'2: Pickett Y. Rickett, 2 Blbb, 1 ib.) Id. " We, the jury, find the amount due on the draft, with
usual lnterest ;" in making up the Judgment, the credit Indcrsed w1111 allowed. The verdict wna held sufficient.
Moke v. Fellman, 1'l Tex. 868. In a suit for property and money In tho hands of stakeholders, the petition 
deecribed it, and the answers In eff'eet admitkd iL The Yerdict Wo.8, "we, tho jury, find for the plaintifff the
amount of money and property in the hn.ndsofE. D. C. andE. J.:" I.he judgment could bcrend;,red upon thlaand the
ploadlnga. Galbreath v. Atk.inl!Uo, Hi Tex. 24. The verdict was ~enerul for the defendnnt; o.nd it nece880J"tly 
lncludee the finding, in bis faYor, of every n1a.terlal fact well pleaded, touching his right to the relief sough~
{Welle v. Barnett, 7 Tex. 084; Hurdy v. De Leon, 6 Tex. 211 ; Smith v. Johnson, 8 Tex. 416; Cook v. C'.rarza, II 
1'a. 861.) Hamilton v. Rlce, llS Tex. 884.. Tho special verdict mWlt find the material Issues; and tr not fflll)()Dlive
IO theee. it will not aup1,ort a Jnd1?ment. Phtlll~s v. Hill, 3 Tex. 899; Thom11son v. Tinnin, ~ 'fex. 8upp, 
K Even thongn It be acquh'll("<'•I In hy b(lth pnrtlrs. Id. It mu8t fln1l Uu1 v,·ry point in IISllue between tho
l)art1ea, or it will not support a Judgment; and a t:6nirti de nw,u, ur a new trial, must be awarded. (Hardy v, 
l>e Leon, IS Tex. 211; Ii ord v. T!1rt, 4 Tex. 498; Burton v. Bondlcs,,2 Tex. 204..) Ho.II v. York, 16 Tex. 28;
Keeler v. Zl.mmerachltte, 1 Tex. IS6. ln suits for the recovery or slaves or other personal property ausoepttble
of dll'tlnot valuation, the Jury shou d find the separate value of each aJaye or article. Blakely v. Duncan,, Tex. 
186. The dama,fe for detention would be the Interest on th.at valne. Id.; Rowlett T, Fulton, IS Tex. '60. The
damagea 8houldoe the value or the negro, and or hie 11emces from the time of the demand up to the time or the 
trial. Prldgln "· Strickland. 8 Tex. ~ And the jury should 11.nd these amonnta ecparately. Id. The petition
9haald be framed tor 81lch reUel without reference to the forma or action of trover or det.iDue. Id. Thie aecdon 
d~ not authorize the Judge to make l111111ee not made by the pleading. Gueaa v. Lubbock. Ci Tex. Ml. lt 
Introduced no D81t' power. Id. ; Johnson T. Loopt 2 Tex. 888. The i88ucs put by the court should not be 
repagnu.t, Coretgn, 11or immaterial to those formed oy the parties.. Gueu v. Lubbock, IS Tex. 541. When the
Til'dlct 11 found upon special i11S11ee alone, the court cannot fook beyond It to any fact apparent in the record. tn 
atd of the Juchnnent. Ledyard T, Brown, 27 Tex. 406. And If luuea lte presented and found whlcb
are not Dlf,de by the pleadfnge,_ they will bo wholly disregarded. Thompson v. Tinn~1 21S Tex. Supp. Ge; 
OHnr v. Chapman, 16 Tez. 406. A party bu no right to require an inatrucUon that uie j11ry muat 1lnd a 
lpMial verdict. Id. '°9. 
Notca 
Amendl.ng
verdict. 
To
§ 
RMnittit14r. 
Art.61.
Note 
§ 1470. ('763) lI09] New trials may be granted in all civil cases, on
such terms and conditions as the court may direct, but not more than two
new trials shall be granted to either party in the same· cause, except the jury
have been guilty of some misconduct, or erred in matter of law. 
586, Where there had been flve jury trials, and two new trial• ~tcd to the appellant. the court may
properly refuee a new trial. Raine v. llood, 28 Tex. MS. In certiorari eases, where there have been eoneurrtng 
verdict& in the joetlcea' and district courts, thts court will not reverse, unless it Is plain that injustice h38 boon
done. Ogden v. Cox, 28 Tex. 28. More thnn two new trials may be granted to the NlIDC party; and they should 
be _granted so long as the jury continue to find against law. (Burton v. Brashear, 8 Marsh, 278; Doe,~ dem; v.
Ball, 1 Dan.a~· Meana v. Moore, 8 McCord, 2S2. Id. 3~8.) Luckett v, Townsend, 8 Tex. 184. The appellate court 
will presume, ;Ji; two verdlcta, that the jury have found correctly on the facta 
though I! they werr- m:mlf,istly
contrary to the law or the evidence, a second new trial might be granted. M tcbell v. Borton, Due. T. 1&&:,;
Alexander'& Dtgest, pp. '82, UIS. In a trial about a fmudult>nt 1111Ic, where there wu no contllct, but a mere 
1. 
detlclenoy of ev[dence, the court reversed the Judgment a second time, and ordered a new trial. Gibson v, Dill,
28 TeL 88. Where there waa error in the instructions, although the party had throe verdlcts in his favor, the
Judgment was reversed. (Luckett v. Townsend, 8 TeL 119.) Austin v. Talk, 20 Tex. 167. Hut after three 
concnn1ng verdicta, lt was refusod.. where the matter turned purely upon a queatton or fact, and the nmount waa
email, and the error complained ot wu the improper admtseloa of evidence. Wilson v. Gordon, 20 Tex. 612..
Where no exemplary damages were found, a new trial will not be granted becauee the court instructed the jury 
that they might ftnd exemplary damaa'ea. Fitzpatrick v. Blocker, 28 TeL 6M.. lf competent materlal evidence,
which m!Jtht liave changed the result, nu been excluded. a new trial should be granted. ( Gr. & Wat. on N cw
Trial&, 27f.) Todd v. Dyeart, 28 TeL 1197. The guardian ts a competent witneae, If he have no interest In the sulL 
Id. The crediblllty or conflicting witnell808 ts a matter peculinr to the iury, and the verdict wUI not be dis­
turbed because they may have erred. Stewart v. Hamilton, 19 Tex. 101 ; Russell v. Mason, 8 Tex. 228;
Mitchell v. Matson, 7 Tex._4j Anderson v. Anderson, 28 Tex. Ml; Latham v. Selkirk, 11 Tex. 821; Bar­
nette v. Hlcta, 8 Tex. 858; .ISaldrida-e T. Gordon, 24 TeL 288i Davidson v. Edgar, G Tex. 496; Legg v. McNelll,
2 Tex. 428; Hall T. Hodge, 2 Tex. 8~; Perry v. Robinso~a. .00. A verdict must clearly be wrong, to Induce 
this court to set it uide. (Long v. Steiger, 8 Tex. ffl.) e v. Trawick, 19 Tex. 64 • Briscoe v. Bronaugh,
1 Tex. 840; Perry v. Robinson, 2 TeL 491; Georice v. Lemon, 1 Tex. 11S2j Cummins v. Rice, Id. 226: Oltverv, 
Chapman, 1~ Tex. 410; Wells v. Barnett. 7 TeJ:. ~7; Ables v. Donley, 8 TeL 886. It la not enough that It ts
not clear that It le right. Briscoe v. Bronaugh, 1 TeL 840. Or that there was contlictlng evidence. J.:drington 
T. K.IJter, 4 Tex. 98.. In the abaence of a statement of facta, it Le presumed to be right. Linn v. MontrOll6, 6
TeL 611. Otherwise. It the verdict h against all the evidence. Bhropahlre T. Doxey, Galv. T. ~ Tex. 128..
But It the Jury find contrary to the whole evidence, a new t.r1al will be granted. Green T, Hill, 4 Tex. 468.. A 
new trlal will not be granted because of evidence to Impeach a wttneu. Scranton T. Ttlfoy, 1' Tex.
198. To entitle a pnrty to a new trial. on the ground of newly discovered evidence, he must Mtlsty the
court that it came to his knowledge since the trial; th.at there W&I! no want of diligence; and that tbe new evi­ 
dence would probably change the result. Watta v. Johnaon~ Tex. 819; Stewart v. Hamilton, 19 Tex. 101;
Madden v. Shapard, 8 Tex. ISO; Long v. Stelgt>r, 8 Te.x. 468; w elch v. Nasboe, 8 Tex. 190; Edrington v. Kiger, 
4 Tex. 91S; Foster v. Spear, 22 Tex. 226; Sweeney v. Jarvis, 6 Tex. 41. And the new facta must be eet out.
(Madden v, Shapard, 8 Tex. 49.) Sweeney v. Jnrvta, 6 TeL 41. .And they must not have boon known to the 
affillnt before the flrat trial Gregg v. Bllnkhend, 22 Tex. 2()2. These rules are even more stringent, where the
proceeding 111 an ort~nal 11uit for a now trial (Common law authorities exhansted.) Burnley v. Rice, 21 Tex. 
180 i. Vardeman v. Edwards, 21 TeL 742; Steinlein v. Dtal., 10 Tex. 26S. The affidavit of the new witnellll should 
be rued, or good reason shown why not Gla81!cocJ v. Manorl 4 Tex. S. The application, whether made before 
or alter the term, ts addreesed to the same court haviug cogn zanee of both legal and equitable cauaes, and both
are governed by the same rules; but ti not made at the term, the party must show e~uitable excuses, (Caperton 
v. WIL!lslow, 18 TeL 125; Go&11 v. McClaren, li Tex.107; Spencer v. Kinnard, 12 1ex. 180.) Vardeman v. Ed­
ward&, 21 Tox. 740. That is, he must atate circumstances, not attributable to his own fault or neglect. nor within 
bis control, showing that be did not have it in bla _power to apply for a new trla1., and to enforce his 11.pplkation
before the court that trled the cause. (2 Story's Eq, art 178 and cnaea elted.) ld.; Fist v. Miller, 20 Tex. 678;
Gregg v. Bankhead, 22 Tex. 262. As thnt ho was prevented by severe Indisposition from making a meritorious
defense. Spencer v. Kinnard, 12 Tex. 187. But not the neglect or mtslnformntion of the attorney. Vordeman 
v. Edward&, 21 Tex. 74L .Nor of hlmselt Blackman v. Green, 17 Te.x. 829; Pierce v. Colo, Id. 261, He mu.at
show that he has a ltOOd defense, or which he waa Ignorant. or that he was prevented from making It by trand or
accident. or the act ot the other party, unmixed with negligence or lanlt on bis part. (Gr.&. Wat. on New
Trial&, chap. 17.) Go&11 v. MoClaren, 1'r TeL 117; Vardeman v. Edwards, 21 TeL 746. But while the discretion 
of the court, granting a new trial on motion, will not be revised, it la otherwise 1U1 to an original proceeding after 
the term. Gosa v. McClaren, 17 Te.x. 11:S. A Jury having been waived. and the case aubmltted to the court, a
motion for a new trlal wu not neooaaary, to ent!Ue the plaintUf In error to a revision 'lf the Judgment.. &ll
County v. Alexander, 22 TeL 007. An original suit tor a now trial, will not be sustained on a goneral charge of 
traud; nor on the ground that the platntUTe tailed to adduce proofs, or disclose tacts, which the defendant
tnew, or might have known. Burnley v. Rice, 21 Tex. 182. Tho judgmont granting a new trio.I, will not be re­
vised by the supreme court. Sweney v. Jarvis, 6 Tex. 89. But in strong C&ll88 it might be done. Hughe& v.
Maddox, Id. 90. It ts doubtful whether the affidavit of a Juror ofirrcgularlty, will be received. Burns v. Pain~ 
8 TeL 159. Such affidavit of mere dispersion, ls no cauae. Id. The granting ot new trials on the affldavita of 
jurors has been di11COuraged. (Kilgore v. Jordan 17 Tex. 841; Mn.son v. Russell, 1 TeL 726; Oampbell v. Skid­
more, Id. 476.) Little v. Birdwe1!1 21 Tex. 618. The judgment will not be disturbed, unle88 there has been a 
motion for a new trial because tne verdict ta oontrary to evidence. Otherwise, as to erroneous instruction&.
Allen v. Stephane&, lS Tex. 670. Surprise, as that a patent was not found among tl1e piipere where it waa 
believed to have been flied, ts no ground tor a new trial Linard v. Cro88land, 10 TeL 466.. The alclrneee ot the
plaint11f, and hie consequent tallore to apply for a continuance, wns allowod as a good ground for new tria.l. Dorn 
v. Best, 1IS Tes:. 66.. Where the evidence wu weak, the admiBSlons of tho party, after the cause was submitted,
against the verdict_ are good grounds for a new trial (Watts v. Johnson. 4 Tex. 811.) De&n v, Border, lG Tex. 
800. That a party wa.s mistaken upon the law, as to tho manner of pruo( is no ground for new trla.l. Philip, v.
Wheeler, 10 Te.x. 688. Thia court will only consld• tho grounds of new trial properly made below. :Mitchell v. 
De Witt, 26 Tex. Sopp. 180; Thomae v. Zuahlag, 2IS Tex. Supp. 226; Adams T, George, ~ Tex. Sap~
874. But lf the pleading11 show that the judgmont Willi exceeslve, It will be reversed. even though
the statement of facts contradict the amended petition, bot ts supported by the orlglnal petition.
Pvron v. Grinder, 26 Tex. Supp. 1119. Where the witness mn.ae ntlld1wit that he had deceived the party 
there could be no complaint or want or diligence. King v. Gray, 17 Tex. 78. Where tt la well established by
affidavit, that the witness h88 deceived the J>IU'ty ll8 to what he would swe.ar._<?r where he swears dtff'erently from 
hie statements on a former trial. a new trial should be_ granted. (8 Gr. & w at. on New Trials.. 958; Wil!IOD v.
Brandon, 8 Ga. 186.) DelmM v. Margo, 20 Tex. 8. If the petitfon lay actionable worde, which are clearly 
proven, and the jury tlnd for the defendant, a new trial "'111 btl granted. Yarborough v. Tate., 14 Tex.
4$6. Uthe plaintifff be surprised by the rejection or evidence, be may take a nonsuit, and move to reinstate the 
canll6; nnd if the motion be refused, and there WIUI error In rejecting, the judgment will be revised on eJTOr.
Easterling v. Blythe, 7 Tex. 218; Houston T. Borry, 8 Tex. 286. But the plalntilf cannot appeal from his own
voluntary nonsuit, without such motion, which Is In tho nature of a motion for a new trial Id. By newly dis­
covered evidence, is meant proof or scme new and mat:t>rial fact In the case, which has come to light since the
trio.I. Mitchell v. Bass, Austin T. 26 Tex. 877. Snch as the dlsco\'ery of a corner tret>, which dillgetJt search 
ha&d failed to dl11cover. Id. In such a case, the new trial oui,tht to be gmntcd. Id. But nr,t where the e,·iddl~
ta merely cumulative. Latham v. Selkirk, 11 Tex. 82!.i Kilgore v. Jordan, 17 Tox. 846. And would still leave 
the Issue doubtful. Ables v. Donley, 8 TE>L 886-7. where the verdict was unsupported by any other evi­
dence thlLD a written Instrument, which this court h&d ruled to be insufficient In It.set( a new trlnl oughi to have
.._n granted. Rogers v. Broadnax, 27 Tex. 240. Whore there was conflicting evidence on every pol~l;, and
where the evidence, although of an uncertain character as la the Increase of 11art11erahlp atock, yet a1l'oraed a 
bui1 from which the Jury might approximate, and file partner In [l0!1!Ml8Slon railed to f'uml11h proof of the true
number, a nt-w trial wu ca1T,·<;tlY refused, Carroll v. E,· .. r,a, 21 TeL 262. We have unlf'uru1ly ruled, that 
•where there ta evidence tending to support the verdlct, and not a very great weight of' evldenee clc·arly
pruvinir the contrary, a new trial will nut be grantt:cl. Latbum v. Selkirk. 11 Tex. 821; Cotton v. Campbell, 8
l'E"x. 49~. And ace the principle supported by 11u1111,rou11 aothorttlea. Carter v. Carter,~ Tex. 102. The 11ame
prtnciple ruled In Howard v. Bay,~ Tu.x. 91. A.Dd In Adame v. George, 26 Tex. Supp. 81-i; and Fowler v, 
Lewta, 26 Tex. Supp. 880. 
In an orlldnal proceeding ff>r a new trial, the party most make out a CAiie which would have entitled him to
a new trial, I( ap111led for at the term, and show a sufficient l6(lt1l t'XCU~ fur not having then made bis upplleatton, 
(Cook v. GIU"&ll, 18 Tfx. 4-K.) Caperton v. Wanalow, 181\•x. 182. Vook v. Garza, and Gr.&, Wat. on New Trlala,
approved. Gregg v. Bankhead, 2'2 Tt'X. ~2. And If the ground& or aJ>plimtlun rost within the knowledge of 
others, thl'lr 11.ffidntta of th<• f'actll should accompany the a11pllcation. Id. Edrington v. Kiger, 4 'fex. 9t>; Scra.n- 
ton v. Ttllef, 16 Tex. 198; Stelnleln v. Dial, 10 Tex. 269. The opposition to the new trlnl may be by exception,
or notice o exception, to granting It, In the reoord. Caperton v. Wanelow, lS Tex. 182. The court cannot 
,rant a n,w trial after the term. except on an original proeooding. Id. 184. But It IB otherwise It there hna boon
an entry otdismlaeal by mistake. (Gillespie T. Redmond, 18 Tex. 9,.i <h1Tett v. Galua, 6 Tux. 48~; Payne T. 
Metz, 14 TeL 66; Yarborough v. Leggett, 14 Tex. 6T1.) John8on v. \;Deney, 1T Tex. 889. Not where the dis·
misaal la ror the want of' prosecution. and there bad been want of diligence. Houston v. Jennin~ 1~ Tex, 498. 
U there hAa been no action upon the motion tor a new trial, the motion la dll!Cbarged.. at the end of the term, by
operation or law, and It cannot be acted upon at a anbaeqoent term. (McKean T. ZUler, 9 Tex. 68.) Laird v.
The State, 16 Tex. 817. Where there waa a motion for anew trial, upon which there wu no action, It '11'111 be
renrded aa overruled. Mason v. Ru911811, 1 TeL 726. An appltcadon tor a new trial. on the ground or the ml"
taie ota wltneu, wtll be received with great caution. (Watta v. Johnson, 4 Tex. 819.) Burnley v. 8hnrpe, 16 
Tu. i89, 240. Where the credits indoraed on the note showed that the verdict was tor over a hundred rlollan more than waa due, a new trial waa ordered, although there wa11 no statement ot tacts. Houston v. Mor­
rlaon, 10 Tex. l. Where the suit ta for damage&, and there la no role ror computation, the verdict wlll not be
clilturbed. unless the damages are so groaely exceulve aa to manifest that the jury muat have acted under some 
undne or improper Influence. McGehee v. Shafer, 9 Tex. 28; Barnette v. Hicks, 6 Tex. 362. A new trial will
not be granted, because of good cround or challenge to a Juror, without, at leut, the atlldavtt or the party that 
th• objection wu not known at the trial. llcGhee T. t!h.arer, 9 1'ex. H; Thuu1ae v. Zllllhlag, 26 Tex.
Bupp. M. Where there wu no motion for a new u1al, the Judgment will not be reYersed, on the jCN)UDd tb8* 
the Terdlot wu not warrant.ed by the evidence. Bart T. Ware, 8 Tex. 11~. It wu otherwise before tl1£ practice 
WU settled under this statute. Foeter v. Smith, 1 TeL 70; Reynolds v. Wllllams, Jd. 812. In an action of
slander, a new trial will not be granted because the Jury did not find enough damng<111. Irwin v. Cook, 24 Tex. 
N6. The evidence of' jnrore to impeach their verdict, wtll not be heard on a motion ror a new trfal. Thomae
\', Zuablag, 20 Te:x. Supp. 226. Where the court aaaumed that the defend1U1t had aooepted work, &plll&t 
which he complained. and upon that ground retuaed lnstructiona, a new trial should be granted. Waul v.
Hardie. 11 TeL MS. 'Where property liad been levied on, and the proof eatabllahed that only about one &txty·
llbth part or It was subject to execution, and there seemed to have been Inadvertence aa to the proof about that, 
a new trial will not be granted; because, bad the verdict found IIO amall a part liable, the plalnutr would not
have been entitled to full coats. Sadler T. Anderson, 17 Te:r. 267. Where the party relted upon atclmet111, which
prevented his making his defense, u tn Spencer v. Kinnard (12 Tex. lSO), he moat, as in tllat ca&e, state the
l'acta which he expects~ p!(>ve, and a.nnex the af!ldavlt.s or the wttneeeea, or ahow good exc:uae tor not doing ao. 
Ward v, Cobba, 14, Tex. 808, 8°'. 
§ 14'11. ('164) (110] No motion for a new trial shall be allowed after
a motion in arrest of judgment. . 
567. Where the motion ls 
588. The court reta&ed to grant a new trial tn an action of slander, where the slanderous words were a 
charge of perjury, and the Jury bad only gtven one cent damages. lrwtn v. Cook, 24 TeL 246. U tho verdict
11i11d Judgment be for more than la claimed in the pleadlnga, and no remittUur entered, tho Judgment will be 
revenied. Gay v. Ralnea, 21 Tex. 4«1. Where the action la tor damaftoa, and tho law tlxea any certain rule, a
motion tor a new trlA1, on tne ground of' oxcesa, may be defeated by a remUUtur to the amount which the court 
knows to be legally just. But where the acUon waa for tort, and the verdict is evidently or admitted to be exeee­
a1ve, the motion cannot be so defeated. (Sedgwick on Damagea, 608; Id. chap. 18, 26; Guerry v. Keaton,
I Rich. II07; Young v. En,tlehard, l How. Mias. 19; Jaeoba v. B&11gor, 4 Shep. 187 · Lambert v. CJ:a1g, 12 Pick.
199; Robson v. Watta, 11 Tex. 768.t,OnJerwood v. Parrott, 2 TeL 168, 181; Robbtna v. Waltera, Id. 180, lM.) 
Thomaa v. Womack, 18 TeI. 668, OM. Where the rnnitNtur la proper, it may be made in the supreme court.
(The Bank of the Commonweaftli v. Aafiley, 2 Pet. 827-8.) Underwood T. Parrott, 2 Tu.1st; Robaon T. Watta, 
11 Tex. 768.. 
14 
to set ulde and arreat the Judgment, and grant htm a new trial," tt CIIDDOt 
-bnoe both. but wtll be confined exclusively to one, excludina the a-ronnda ot the other. The State T, Mann. 
18 Tex. 6i. Bee Happ v. Ingram, 3 Tex. 17, [Repealed as to crimes. (A.rte. 2469, 24M, 3416-16.) Mat.thews T, The State, 33 TeL 106.) 
§ 14'12. ('165) r111] New trials may be granted, as well when the
damages are manifestly too small as when they are excessive. 
ABT. 14'13. ('166) [112] All motions for new trials, in an·est of judgment,
or to set aside a judgment, shall be made within two days after the rendition
of verdict, if the term of the court shall continue so long ; if not, then before
the end of the term, and every such motion shall be accompanied by a
written specification of the grounds on which it is founded ; and none other
than those specified shall be heard. All motions for new trials, in arrest of 
judgment, or to set aside a judgment, shall be determined at the term of the
court at which such motion shall be made. 
569. The object of' th1a aectlon is to require a "\ll"rltten apecltlcatlon; but upon 110me other grounds, the court
may grant a new trial. Sweeney--v. Jarvie, 6 TeL 44.. But the supreme court will only revise the grounds 
aaetgncd. Hlllebrant v. Brewer, 6 Tex. 62. A motion to set a11ide a tlnal judgment by detaull, la within the
pnrview oftbla aectlon. Foster v. Martin, 20 TeL 122. It should at.ate 1utlfclent equitable reasons for falling to 
inat~ the defense. (Wright v. Thomae, 6 TeL 420; Cochrane v. Middleton, 18 Tex. iilS.) Id. The motion
comes too late after two dayL Warren v. Bailey, 7 TeL 520. But the record must affirmatively &how that the
two daya had elapeed. Gammage v. Alexander, 14 Tex. 418. The last clause of the section ta peremptory; 11.nd It 
the new trial be not granted by the end of the term, the motion is loet., by operation or law. McKean v. Zlller2 9 
Tex. 118; Laird T. The State, 16 Tex. 817. The oonrt cannot continue the motion, and grant the new trlal at Ule 
next term. McKean T. Ziller, 9 Tex. 69; Bullock v. Ballew, 9 TeL 600. Nor put it upon the contingency of'
paying COl!lta, by the neit term. Secre8t v. Beet, 6 Tex. llOO. But the objection to such an order must be mude
at the time, and not after the _payment ot the 001ta, and the continuance of the caao on the docket for aovoraJ 
&erm&. Gorman v. McFarland, 18 TeL 5188.. It dtd not require an original bill to authorize the conrt to ,·acate
an order or decree at the same term at which It wa11 made, on dlacoverlng that it had committed an error, or that 
the consent otthe complatnanta to the dlanll-1 wu obtained by traud. Dosa v. Tyack, 14 How. 812. Where
the answer ot the detendanta dented traud In the abstract., but admitted all the racta and eiroumatancea nece&1&ry 
to conltitute it in the ooncrete, there waa no DNletlllity to ~rer the l811ue or Cruod to the Jury; nor can there be,
ground for a new trial, becau., auch an b1&ue la found tor the plaintifff. Id. 812, 818. . 
ABT. 14'14. ('16'1) [1131 The costs of all new trials may either abide the
event of the suit, or shall oe paid by the party to whom such new trial may 
be granted, according to the order of the court, to be made at the time o{ .
granting such new trial. 
5'2'0. The order for costs must not make the new trial contingent, but may be tor execution. Secrest T 
Best, 6 Tex. 200. .An uncondttlonal order for a new trial, and a final judzment tor costs, la correct. Houston v.
Starr, 12 Tex, 425. But such a judgment, upon terms. 111 not such a tlnal judgment as to authorize 11.n &pJX"8l or
writ or error. (Scott v. Burton. 6 Tex. 8'22. and thut clase or esses.) Id. It Is my opinion., that the judgment of
the court, grant1ng a new trial, is not subject to revision. Parrott v. Underwood, 11> Tex. 49. 
§ 1475. (708) [114] When any judgment shall be arrested or set
aside, the court shall allow the proceedings, in which the error was, to be
amended in all cases where the same amendment might have been made
before trial, and the cause shall again proceed according to the practice of
the court ; but the party in whose proceedings the first error was committed,
shall pay the costs mcurred thereby. 
5 'fl. A motion In arTeSt or judinnent, presenta the same matter as a general demurrer. Denleon v. League,
16 Tex. 400. It the petition laid no- foundation for evidence, tho jndgment ought to be arrested. Id. ; Brad­ 
ahaw v. Davis, 12 Tex. 8M; Steinlein v. Dial, 10 Tex, 269. It must show a cause of action ln the plaintUt Or­ 
ton v. Engledow, 8 Tex. 209. But where the petition was for a now lrlnl, tho objection should be taken by 
demurrer. Bradshaw v. Davis, 12 Tex.~- The petition for n certiorari; is not governed by the rule of a
statement or the cause or action. Stelnleln v. Dial, 10 Tex. 269. It the record show that tho jury was sworn, 
the judgment wUl not be arrested, even though there ta a misrecltal or the correct oath. Ruaaell v. The State,
lOTex.B. 
THE JUDGMENT. 
§ 14'16. ('169) [115] Judgments in the district court shall, in all civil
cases, be .rendered so as to conform to the pleadings, the nature of the case 
as proved, and the verdict thereon. 
6'2'~. Where there Is a verdict for the defendant, and no other entry than tbot tho deftmdant recover b1a
0011t8, it le not tlnal. (Hanks v. Thompson, 0 ToL 6; Warren v. Shuman, Id. #1; Hancock T. Metz, T Tes.
lTT.) Bradshaw v, Davis, 8 Tex. ~; Green v. Banks, 24 Tex. 6~; McAlplne v. Burnett, ts Tex. 8'9 
Fltzir!'rald v. Fltzgernlrl, 21 Tex. 415; ~eylanrl v. While, 25 Tex. 89..-0. There should have been a final
Judgment, tluit the plaintifff take nothing by hll1 snit, and the defendant go hence witliaout dny. Hancock Y • 
Metz, i Tex. 177. Or be dlschnrgcd from hie attendance on court. Scott v. Burton, 6 'l'ex, 82'.l Or that the
defendant's title be confirmed, or an equtvalent order. Warren v. Shuman, 5 Tex. 4W. The form Is not mate­ 
rial; but the judgment should show ll final adjudicatlon, and ll judgment tor coats does not do that, Scott v.
Burton, 6 Tex. 322; Wan en v. Shuman, 5 Tex. 4.'JO. That the petition be dismissed, or the defendant be dia­
charged without day would be final. Brndshnw v. Davis, S Tex. 84.:1: Hagood v. Grimes, 2-l Tex. 16; West v.
Bagley, 12 TC'x. 8-l Where there oad been no service on a suit for speclflc f1t'rf,1rmnnce, there could ht! no judg­ 
ment against the defendant for costs. Murtln v; Wnde. 22 Tvx. 2'24. A judgment agnlust tho defendant to cost.a,
is nut llnnl. Id. A judgment on demurrer, uh!mls~lng a suit, ls no bnr to & future action. Nickolson v, Ingram.
h Tex. 63'. Errors as to amounts may be corrected during the term. Morrison v. Dibrell, 2'J Tex. 199. A 
reel till whteh Is merely surplussgo, will not be noticed. Cookv, Hancock. 20 Tex. 8. Or one that is contradle­
torv to the main judgment. Wooten v. Manning, 11 Tex. 32-'5. Th11 faete need not ho set ont in the jud!l,'ment.
Hamilton v, Ward; 4 Tex. 860; Cook v. Hancock, 21) Tex. 8. Anu this applies to motions against shcrlll:. a. 'Ham­
ilton v, WIU"d, 4 Tex. 860. .A. recital or part of the facts In a Jud1m1ent, dues not vitiate It. (Chapman v. Sneed, 
Ii Tex. 428..) Cook v. Hancock, 2-0 'fox. 8. The presumptions still remain, as In other cases, whore there is no
statement or tacts. Chapman -v. Sneed, lT Tex. 4.'31. The j111l,rment shoald conform tu the case made by the
pleadings. And it cannot go beyond the prayer fJr relief, auil the relict sought. Id.: Plnchaln v. Collard, 18
Tox. 835; Moore v. Guest, 8 '!'ox. 119. A judgment which has been 11Ct aside by the district court, ta not fl.nal.
Hughes v. Maddox, 6 Tex. 90. It it be for more than is claimed in the petition, 1t will be reversed, unless a 
renuttuur he entered in the supremo court. Moore v. The Republle, 1 Tex, MG. A judgment of partition,
appointing commissioners, Is final, without awaiting their report, or the apportionment or costs. McFnrland v,
Hall, li Tex. 690; Cannon v. HemphUI, i Tex. 184. A decree need not be slgnoo by the judire. Id. 192.. Nor
need a decree by consent be signed by all the pertles, Id. Those not slimln~ could only object to It for traud. 
Id. Where the dot'endant, or one of two defendants, dle11 pending tho snit. the clnlm need not be presented to 
the administrator, and different judgments may be rendered against the defendants. Bennett v. Spfllars, T Tex.
602. Where there had boon a dteconttnuance aa to all the plaintifffs. the judgment should be aa in case or non·
suit. Kelly v. Kelly, 23 Tex. 438. Whore the pleadings \fescrlbod the plnintUf as "guardian," and the Judg­ 
ment and writ of error bond as "admlnl"trator," they will be regarded as personal descrtptton and surplus­
age. Morrison v. Hodges, ·25 Tex. Sapp. 176. The judgment ls uot confined oo the verdict; it may alao 
embrace conclusions founded upon the admissions 1n tne pleadings. Smith v. JohnMn. 8 Tex. 425. It muat
conform to tho verdict. Bennett v. Butterworth, 11 Tex. 6TIS. It is error to render judgment "in the promta­
&0ry notes of the govornment," Nunn v, Tho Republic, Austin T. Dec. 1845; Alexander's Digest, f· 400, sec. 
81; Rice v. Powell, Dallam, 415. Tho judgment can onlv bo given for their vulue in the oonstltuttona currency.
Id. The judgment by default should follow the pleadtngs, Where the clerk assesses the da.m~es (debt] there 
should hen jmlgment fur them. But without It, a judgment of foreclosure ls final. But where the petition wu 
against the defendant, a8 president ot an academy, the judgment should be accordingly. Dyer v. Sullinn 18
T-,i:. 711-773. It must conform to tho pleadings. Menard v. Sydnor, 29 Tex. ~T. ' 
§ 14'17. (770) [116] Any person, for a bond fide debt, may, without
process, appear in person, or by attorney, and conft:!ss judgment for such
debt; but in such cases, a petition shall al ways be filed, and the justness of
the debt sworn to by the person in whose favor the judgment is confessed; 
and when confessed by attorney, the warrant of attorney shall be filed. 
5'2'3. Where tbe snit 18 upon a note which Is mndo part of the petition, and tho confession ls general, the 
jml,rment will be enkn•d for thE' amount doe. There Is nothing In Mon~umery v. Barnett (S TeL 143) In con­
flll!t with this view. Little v. Crlttend,,n, 10 Tl'x. 192. This section com,,arl'd ,~ith l!Cctton 115; and heltl, that 
a petition, stating the cuus,• of action, i!l n pre-re'luislte cssentl11l t-0 all pl'\JC('(•dings In a ch·ll suit. Mon~omery
v. Bnn,ett.. 8 'l't'X. 146. Ancl Sl'e Flan{4!nn v. llnrnur, 10 T,•x. ~T. And wherf' tL0 judimcnt ts one dav antt>­ 
cedent to the fllin;: of the petition, the ubjE'ction ls tutal. Monti;omery v. Barn1•tt, 8 Tt•x. 146. 'l'he atttd:1vit oC
t.he rlulntllf (not ot' othl'r~) Is l't''!ulrerl. rd. If the confl'~~lon wa.5 by power of ntt<>rn<'y, the power may be
11hown to he fr:l11dnl1,nt. ,Johnston v. Loop, 2 Tl'x. S.~'5. Bcti1re this s1•ctl<>11, th•·re wu~ no nP.ccsslty of filing the 
warrant of attorne}·. llfeITitt v. Clow. 2 T<X. 1)-;!I: ~llller v. Alexnnder, 8 T,·x. 4.'1. An attornev at law, strictly
speakin!:, hns no authority to oomrromlsc for his clin1t.. but an sthlrn-..y in fnct may do 110. Merritt v. Clow. 2 
Tex. r,:l~. ,\IHl pnrti,·s not scrv<'<. may eom1• 111 by attorney in fact, and couf1•ss judJrment. ld. And it the
attorney nbus..,d hit< trust, and conf.:-s~cd thr, imhnncnt.. It Is aUll binding. Chambers v, Rodges, ts Tex. 109.
Where th,·ro- ls judgm~nt without prooeu eerved or wai\'ed, tllen· must IK• un atllclavit. }'Ian&&an v. Broner
to Tex. '.!.",7. Amrm<'d. n<'ruhl v. BorLlaer, :m Tex. 20-1. [The ntnd,wit nn<l p,.1wl'r mu .. t. <'Xt:<r. Herry v.
Chiltlre:,,-,. :!:.! T<•x. :,:!. !Joe!-1 uot control if process bas not boon scr-;-cd. Sehro,•der v. Fromme. 31 
ABT. 14'78. ('771) f11'7] Every judgment by confession, duly made, shall
operate as a release of all errors in the record thereof, but may at any time 
be impeached for fraud or other equitable causes, by third parties. 
5 '7 4. The role that a confession of Judgment waives all errors In the jndiroient, 111 tw.lf 11nbj<'Ct to Hmtta­
tlon and restriction necessarily Implied, Storey T. Nichol", 22 Tex. 91. 'rhtis If made ~ithout tho service of 
procese, and before the filing of a petition, It ts contrary to law. (Montl(omery v. Barnett, 8 Tex. 148.) Id. So
where tho affidavit to the Justiwss of tho debt Is wanting. (Ilopkfne v. Boward, HI Tex. 7.) Id. So tho cause 
of action, embraced in the confession, must not be entirely diff'<'rent from that set out In the petition. Storey v.
Nichole, 22 Tex. 91; Connolly v. Wtlllam&, 22 Tex. 646. The Judgment n,Ml dicit, Is a species of judgment by 
default, but It Is not provided for by statute. It amounts to sotnethlng moro than a statutory default. It cures
de!tlcls in sorvtee and proeess, Storey v. Nichol&, 22 Tex. 90. It partakes or the nature of eonfesston and default,
(Cartwright v. Rolf, 1 Tex. 78; Wheeler T. Pope, 6 Tex. 262; Burton v. Lawrence, 4 Tex, 8i8; Little v. Critten­
den, 10 Tex. 192.) Id: And to the same effect see Prewitt v. Perry, 6 Tex. 262; Wescott v. Menard, Dallam, 
ro3, l5M. But It 111 not equal In conclusfvoneea with an oxpre1!8 confession of judgment. (Frazler v. Todd, 4 Tex.
481, as contradlstlngnlsbod from Cnrt\Vrlght v. Roff, 1 Tex. 78.) Storey v. ~lcbols 22 Tex. 92. A judgment by
consent, wll.h a stay or execution, eoems to amount to a judgment by agreement, ~lrd v. Thomas, 22 'I'<>x. 2Sl;
Hutchinson v. Owen, 20 Tex. 287; Burton v. Varnell, 1 'rex. 6:"ll'i. The confession of judgment rek'UOS the error 
of overruling a plea In abatement. Taylor v. Gr<'Jrl!', 22 Tex. 817. A judgment by consent, on a note and mort­
gage, made by the husband and wife against both, without any reference to the wife's separate property, Is not
such an error as the court wtll eonslder, when it is first made by argument In the supreme court. Bullock v. 
Hayter, 24 Tex. 10. A judgment by consent i!I a waiver or errors. (Dunman v. Hartwell, 9 Tex, 495; Burton v.
V arn~ll. 1 Tex. ff8IS; Murri tt v. Clow, 9 Tex. 5.92; Burton v. Lawrence, 4 Tex. 8i8.) Townsend v. Moore, 18 TeL
81. And the eonsent or the attorneys will be presumod to be with authority, until tho contmry appear&. Dun·
man v. Hartwell., 9 Tex. 496. 
§ 1479. (7'72) [118] In suits against executors, administrators, or
guardians, for the recovery of the money due from, or damages incurred by
their testator, or intestate, or ancestor, when a verdict shall be given against
them, or judgment final, by default, shall be taken against them, the judg­
ment shall be that the plaintifff recover his debt or damages, as the case may
be, and costs, to be paid in due course of administration ; and no execution
shall issue on such judgment. \Vhen the suit is instituted for the enforce­
ment of a specific lien on personal property, the judgment sbaH be, that the
plaintifff recover his debt and damages and costs, and that the property sub­ 
ject to Ruch lien shall be seized and sold by the sheriff, if it can be found,
and that the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to the judgment and costs,
and if there be any excess, after such payment, the same shall be paid to the
defendant; and if the proceeds of such sale shall be insufficient to pay such 
judgments and costs, the balance shall be paid in due course of adminis­
tration ; but no execution shall issue thereon. Where the suit is for the
foreclosure of a mortgage on real estate or negroes, the heirs interested in
the mortgaged property shall be made parties to the suit, by due notice
served, and the subsequent. proceedings shall conform to the rules prescribed
as above, in cases of specific liens on personal property. 
5'7 5. The form of judgment in the first elanee should be pursued, aa to the 11dmlnt11trator, where
the judgment la joint B!,tlllnst a survivor and the administrator. Bennett v. Splllani, 1 Tex. 601, 602. 
Execution cannot be Issued from the district court, Cunningham v. Taylor, 20 Tex. 129 which overrules
Dantey v. Swinney, 7 TeL 618. and reviews the previous ca868. See A.drlanoe v. Brooks, 13 Tox. 286. "To be
paid in duo course of administration," should bo added In a Judgment upon a recognizance. Wilcox v. The State, 
U Tex. M7. The last clause in this section rcfer11 to tho flr11t part, In which 11uit11 are brought agulnst executors,
admlnlslntors, or guardians; and 11ulta Lronght against the Intestate while living do not come within its pro- 
81~:1. ;~ere the Intestate died pending the snit, the heirs need not be made partleL Givens v. Davenport. 
§ 1480. ('773} [119] All judgments or decrees for the enforcement of
specific liens, or the foreclosure of mortgages, against persons other than ex­
ecutors or administrators, shall be that the plaintifff recover bis debt, damages,
and costs, and that an order of sale shall issue to the sheriff of the county 
where the yroperty subject to such lien or mortgage can be found, directing
him to sel the same, if found, as under execution ; and if the proceeds
of such sale be insufficient to pay the judgment and costs, or if the property
cannot be found, further execution may be issued for such balance, or for the
debt against such defendant, as the case may be. 
5 '78. A judgment to enforce t'lie vender's lien, should contain an intelligible desertptton of the land. Hurt 
T. :Moore, 19 'l'ox. 2';'0. It ts qncstionable whether thls section does not so far modify the statute of 1840, respect­
tng mo~es, 118 to dispense with the atlldllvit, and to entitle tho defendunt to his defenses and trial. as In other
casee. P..ankert v. Clow, 16 To.x. 11. Where, from the, ease made by the plaintifff', It Is obvious that he has 
received the rent, and baa not accounted (or It, tt ts error, for which a judgment will be reversed, though not
aMigned as error. Id. There 111 no n<'CCS11ity ror a eepsrate suit on the bond or now. Duty v. Oruluun. 11! T e .x •
.U. · An actton cannot ho malntalnod for the recovery or the land lti<df. Id, Whol'<' tho party had railed to
present hb debt ag-.&lnst a decedent In time.. he could have no remedy on the morteaec given to secure It. 
Id. 481. Tho Judgment need only to be In enbltanUal compliance with the etatut4,. Bishop v. Jones & Petty, 
ts Te:s. 280; Goea v. Pridgen, Id. 9k 
ABT. 1481. ('7'74) [120] In all cases where the district or supreme courts
shall decree a conveyance of real estate, or the delivery of movable property
or effects they may by decree, pass the title of such property, without any
act to be 'done on th'e part of the defendant, when it shall be proper. 
& '7'7. As for costs In, nnd ecmpensatton, and tender, where the qunntlty or la.nd is overstated, see Walling
.,., Klnn.urd, 10 Tl.'.L oil. Where the <JWlntlty falls short, if the vendee dooa not abandon the contract, be abal.l 
baTe a.a abatement for the lOIIII. (}dltchall v. Zimmerman, 4 Tex. ~) Id. 
§ 1482. (775) [121] On all motions, the court may give or refbse
costs, at their discretion, unless where it is otherwise provided by law. 
& 7 8. Parties Interested should have notice or motions to rctax eoste, Gage 1'. Page.10 Tex. 864. And when
the clerk made the motion hlmacll, and the coeta wen, retaxed, which Judgment was revened, It wu at 1hl 
ooata or the clerk. Id. 
§ 1483. (776) [1221 In all cases of law (except motions), where judg­
ment shall be given for clefendant, or appellee, he shall recover his costs
against the plaintifff or appellant, and have execution for the same; and in all
such cases, where Judgment shall be given for the plaintifff or appellant, if
not otherwise provided by law, he shall recover his costs against the defend­
ant or appellee, and have execution for the same.* 
& 79. The phraseoloey or this l.!OOtion ls remarkable. Oannon v. Hemphill, 7 Tflx. 201. The eection, u I 
whole, extends only to cases In which the entire Judgment ls given for the pllllntlft' or the defendant. It doll
not Include <'uses in 11·hkh judirurnnt, as to a portion or the matters In controversy, 111 ~ven for one or the partie1, 
and against him llll to other matters. ld. So far 88 it attempts to regulate th .. proeeedings or the supreme court,
It 111 unconetltutional, because It vlolates the 24th sectton or the 7th article of the constitution. Id. •· A cut' <I 
law," perhaps. Intended to leave costs In eases properly of equitable cognlzanl"f', to the dtscretton or the court.
Anderson v, McKinney, 2'2 Tex. 6M. The fees due wltneS1MJ11, are a portion of the- costs ; and wbero the caae WM 
dlsmtssod on a rule for costs, they were Included In the judicm«snt ror the defendant& Id. With the exoeptiODI
in sections 87. 1¥:i. Id. The pendency or the rule for costs, did not chanlC" the liability as to wltnelllle& Id. 
Whtire the plaintifff' recovered a Judgment, which WM carrled to the supreme court and reversed ; and on a new
trial the plaintifff recovered, the judgment "for all costs" does not carry th,, costs of the writ of error, the tran­ 
aerlpt, and the costs of the supreme court. Farquhar v. Hendley, 24 Tex. 801. If the clerk tax such oosts In the 
execution against the defendant, the correct rcm(·d,Y II' a motion to retax. Id. So of all complalnts ur taxation.
Davis v, Thom:111, 6 Tex. 890. In c:w·s purely equitable, the coets seem to lie In the breast of Lhe judge. Wil­
ling v. Kinnard, 10 Tex. 612; Latham v, 'I avlor, 15 Tex, 24S. In such Clllle8., the costs may be agal118t the
defendant, wtth an alternative judgment, that ir there IR II nulta bC>11<1, exeentton may IMuo Bgalnst the plalntltt
Id. Wh e re a writ or prohibition to a justice haR been dlsmtseed, costs may be a"·ardl'll ognlnst the petitioner, 
but the district court cannot affirm tho judgment of the jnstloo. P,·kra v. Rhine, 10 Tex. 215. Where the
verdict wae that both parties were guilty or l'raud, and that each party should pay hlllf the costs, tlui proper 
Judgment was that the defendant recover all hts costs against the plalnUtr. Baker v. Wolford, 9 Tex. 516. 
§ 1484. (778) (124] All taxes imposed on law pleadings shall be in­
cluded in the bill of costs. 
AaT: 1485. ('779) [125] The law of costs shall not be interpreted as
penal laws. 
ABT. 1486. (780) [126] Each party shall be responsible to the officers of
court for the costs incurred in any suit by himself. 
§ 1487. (781) [127] There shall not be allowed in any cause or bill
of costs the fees of more than two witnesses to any one fact. 
REVIEW. 
ABT. 1488. {782) (1281 On the rendition of any judgment, in a suit,
where notice or service of process has been given or made by pubJication
only, and heard ex parte, the court shall make out and incorporate with the
records of the case, a statement of the facts proven therein, on which the
judgment was founded. . 
580. A 8clre t,aciatf to revlve a jud~ent, ls a 1uit within the meaning of this statute. McFadden v.
Lockhart, 7 Tex. 6,6. Whatewr may 'be the cause or acuon, whether ltouldated or unllquldated, proved by 
parol, by written, or by record evidence, the statement offncts must be made, or the case will be reversed, Id.
The statement of racu must be recorded In the decree Itself, or preserved oft n part of the record, Davis v. DIT1s,
24 Tex. 190; Hill v. Baylor, 28 Tex. 268; Pierpont v. Pierpont, 19 Tl'X. 22-S. Taken and construed with the 
12th section or the act of lt-iS, this It\ to be considered as a qunlifteatlou of the provlslous of that section applt
cable to judgment8 by default. where service hos been made bv publtcation, ~ere the dt·f,•ndant has not ap·
peared, and whore, consequently, the h(•arln1r ts e.a- parte. Mc\.'ndden v, Lockhart. 7 Tex. 676. The stAtute It 
imperative. Chrtsman v. Miller, 15 Tu. 160. If the pnbllentlon wll.!! not completed in tlmo for the return 
term, It waa itood for the next succeedlna term, the default not bctnz taken until the second term after the lieu·
anee or the 'lll·rlt, and the final decree at the third term. HUI v. Baylor, 28 Tex. 263. 
§ 1489. (783) [129] When judgment bas been rendered in any suit,
on notice, or service by publication only, and on ex parte hearing, the party
defendant may, at any time within two years, after the rendition of such
judgment, file his petition of review for the reversal thereof, in the court
rendering the judgment; but process on such judgment shall not be sus­
pended unless the petitioner give bond, with two or more sureties, to be 
approved by the clerk, in double the amount of the judgment or value of
the property adjudged, payable to the party in whose favor such judgment
was rendered, conditioned that he will prosecute his petition for review to 
effect, and perform such judgment as may be rendered thereon by the court,
in case the decision be against him ; and in case property has been sold
under judgment, before process thereon was superseded by petition and
bond, as aforesaid, the same shall not be restored on the reversal of the
judgment, but the petitioner shall have judgment for the amount paid or 
r• S!'lllicr thl' rnnrt nor jnry cnn apportion tbo coata. Ammon 1'. Thompson, 3-! Tex. 241, 2!2; Garrett v.
Mc:Uuhnn. ;}I TPX. 3C~.] G I 
e 
eollected thereon, or for damages by him sustained in consequence thereof;
minors, married women, and persons non compos mentis shall have two years 
to file such bill of review after their respective disabilities are removed,
under the restrictions above stated in this section. 
5 81. Where the parties averred that the proeeedlngs were te parl1, and that they had no noUce In tact 
fl the suit, and that they had a good defenset they were entitled to a now trial or the former &ult. (Mnll8ina T. 
Moore, 18 TeL 7; Kitchen v. Crawford, ld. 016.) Snow v. Hawpe, 22 Tex. 111. And the woman being ooct1rl, 
when the ftnt Judgment was rendered, wae within the exception. Id. And an averment or fraud, and know­
ledge or that fraud by theJurcha.sel'll nt sheriff"& 1111le., was aufflclPnt to charito them with their wrongful acts, and 
t.o avoid their purchasee, true. Id. After decree, a bill of review can on1y be granted for some error on tho
face or the decree, or upon some ground·of newly discovered equity, such as payment, release, &c., slnoo the 
flrst bearing. Larsoa v. Moore, 1 Tex. 27. Thia sectlon eompaeed with the 9th secrlon of tho statute of
limitations, or 1841. ae.tnln T. Maverick, 24 Tex. 684; Hein of Ytun1 v. McLeod, 28 Te:r. 87. 1'hl1 
(128th) seetton limited the act or llmilatlone to CASeB where service hnd been had by publication, and
the trial was• pa,.t& Seguin v. Maverick, ~ Tex. Ma. .Approved In Lewis v. San Antonio, 28 Tex. 818. 
This aectlon"haa not been understood to restrict the remedy It provides, to what I& understood In chancery prse­ 
dce by a bill of review, l!trictly, but ss having been Intended, In tho more enlarged sense, of 11tfordl11g a rehearing,
or new trial of the esse, on tJ10 merits, Such was the conetmctlon put upon the statute In the leading case upon
Wa subject or M.usslna v, Moore, 18 Tex. 8. (KUehi,n v. C,'rawford, 18 Tex. 619; Vardeman v. Edwurds, 21 Te1. 
'140.) Seguin v. Maverick. ~ Tex. 686.
The 61ll of review, In England, only went to orron ln the c)ooree. not to the evidence. Id. 1188. In America, It 
went also to the pleadings. (Chaneerj' rulo dtseuesed, Randon v. C.nrtwrigbt, 8 Tex. 288..) Id. But In Tcxaa,
neither the chanl'.ery or common law pleadings have been adopted, as matter or absolute principle, farther than
thoy have been introdooed or ~tzed by our own statutory provision& Seguin v. llaverlck, 24 Tex. rin_ 
B. (Story's Eq. Pl. 40T; 8 Daniel's Chancery PraoUce, 1789-40.) We have no bills of review, atrlctly
and technically a~klng. Vardeman v. Edwards, 21 Tex. 740. See Lewis v. San Antonio, 28 Tex. 818. 
Where there baa been servlce, a writ or error should be resorted to. Id. Where the chancery Jurtl!dlctton and
oommon law are kept distinct, and administered in ditl'erent trlbllllala, It appertnlned to the chancery jnrll!dlctlon, 
on a sufficient esee being presented, to grnnt a new trial ot the flu:ta of the case, after a trial at common law; and
nch new trial or the facts was tried in the common law court, on fl!sne& sent to that court Crom the chanrery
court. (Gro88 v. Mcclaran, 8 Tex. 8-ll, and Jones v. Stewart. 9 TeL 469.) Musslna v, Moore, 13 Tex. 8. Where 
a new trlal would have been granted, on prlnclplee or eqnltv jurisprudence, the Texas courts will grant a new
trial. Id.; Kitchen v, Crawford (13 Tex, 616), affirmed. This sectton compared wlth the 18th section of the 
act or 1848; and held, that If tho aftldavit be not true In tact, or the porty was In none of the conditions contcmlated (or publication, ft Wall irround for a now trial. Kitchen v. Cr!\wford, 13 T1>x. 020. But whether the 
ent wu a nullity or not, If the party was not In a condition for citation by publlco.tlon, tho court declined
do. Id. Thl11 remedy, and the writ or error, are eoncurrent, wht>re tho servtce has been by publleatton, 
sman v. Miller, 16 Tex. 11')9. A review was refused, where the plaintifff got more than he was entitled to by
the evidence, and the defendant had not appealed. .Arcleileita v. l:l«ltlle, 11'> Tex. 881. Where the review ls aaked 
tor erron or law, apparent on the fnco of the record, we have heretofore held, that the proeeedlng by bill ot 
nTlew will not lie In our practice. (Seguin v. Maverick, 24 Tox. 626.) Heirs of Ytun1 v. McLeod, 26 Tex, 
81'. And where the only o&her ~round of error alleged waa, that there wu colloalon between the f.Cllardlan of
the infant defendanta and the plalntUI', and this charge was not sustained by proofs, there was an end or the 
review, except aa to the alleged nullity or the Judgment for want or 11Cn1ce.. Id. Where a part of the papen 1n
the cause had been lost, and one of the defendants had been made sneh by amended petition, and the record 
reetted that the partle11 appeared by their attorneys, this la prlmafitcie evidence that the party, whom the record
does not show to have been served, did appear and submit himself to the jurisdiction of the court, upon tho trial.
(Merritt v. Clow, 2 TeL t>S2.) Id. And a further recitation, that the defendants moved for a new trial, and there 
are two motions, respectively 11lgned by dlft'erent counsel, the Inference ls strong that both defendants In tact 
appeared. Id. But as to the errors, apparent upon the record, the lnfanta may sUll prosecute error. Id 
STATEMENT OF FACTS. 
§ 1490. (788) f135l After the trial of any cause, when the party has
given notice of a;>pea , or intends to give such notice, it shall be the duty of
the parties respectively, to make out a clear and explicit statement, or bill
of the facts given in evidence on the trial of the cause, and to submit the 
same to the op1,><>site party, or his attorney, for inspection during the term,
and if the parties, or their attorneys, agree as to the facts given in evidence,
they shall sign and seal the same, and submit it to the judge, for approval
and signature, who shall also sign it, and the statement so made shall
be filed 1l8 a part of the record of the cause ; but if, on inspection of the
statement offered, the parties cannot agree, or the judge do not approve or
sign it, then they shall submit their respective statements to the jud$e pre­
siding at the trial, who, from the statements so furnished him, and bIS own
knowledge, shall, during the term at which the trial was had, make out a
correct and exact statement of the facts of the cause as given in evidence,
and shall sign and seal the same, and cause it to be filed in the records of
the cause, as a part thereof 
582. Without a statement or f11cts, the charges of the conrt will not bt> revl~d. Tl'as v. McDonald, 18
Tex. SM; MoMnllen v. Kelso, 4 Tex. 28:i; Fulgham v. Bendy1 28 TtiL 611; Birge v, WAnhop, Id. 441; .Annstrona: 
T. Llpeoomb, 11 Tex. 8111. Unless the plendlngs show thAt tne charge ls nece11Mrllv erroneous. Bnet v. Alford,
fl Tex. 899; Lneketts v. Townsend, 8 Te::r. 128: Dewes v. Hudgeons, 1 Tex. 198; \\"alllng v. Kinnard, 10 Tex. 
612; 1..,'urry v. York, 8 Tex. &>9: Caatro v. Illies, 11 Tex. 89. Without a statement or fnct11, It cannot be seen
how tar a cause waa lnfluenood by e.iclodlng aeconllary evidence. (Hutchins v. Wade, 20 Tex. 7.) Fulgham T. 
Bendy, 23 Tex. 66; Thomp80n v. Callleon, 21 TeL 489. Or other eTldence. Hutchins v. Wade. ~O Tex.
8; Oannon v. Tompkins, 22 T«·:oc. 3.~: Jf,11b·11 v. Lom?Cope, 23 Tex. 1611; But T. Alford, 22 Tex. 899. And 
the court will presumA in l'Avor o( the Jmlgn1Pnt. (RoblnlOn v. Lakry, 19 Tex. 189: Milburn v. Walker. 11
Tex. 830.) St. Clair,·. ~lcG,·heo, 22 Tex. 8; Ral<lwln v. Dearborn, 21 Tox. 448; Walllng v. Klnnnnl, 10 TeL 
fiOB; J>avlti v. Loft.In, 6 Tl'x. 4.'-9. And of the verdict. Roberta v. Heft'rwr, 19 Tex. 181: liot"tege v. Landa, 29
Tex. lOT; May v. l<•errtll, 22 Tex. 840; Robbins v. Kimble, 2 Teii:. ~; Withee v. lfay. 8 Tex. 161; Portis v. 
Cochrane, 1 Tex. 77. An«l wherever error Is so~ht to he revl8t'd, th<•l'l' 11houM be a stJ1trm1>nt of fact!!. (Galbreath v. Templeton, 20 Tex. 47.) Fulghl\Dl v. Bendy, 23 Tt'X. 65. And 81..'e Camphcll ,·. Skidmore, 1 Tex. 476 • 
Sheldon v. Bovee, 20 Tl'::t. S80. lint this Is uot the rule, tr tho error can be cll'11rlv roe,·n without the statl'ment of
l'acts. Galbrei,th v. Templ<•ton, 20 Tex. 65. As IC the note be sl,rncd •• Sarni. 11. DllYlsfi,r James H. Davis,'' and
jud.!nllent WM l'('ndcr<>d bv default against both. and the derendnnt. ln error, l:IUf?~estt'CI delay. Dn\·ls v. McGehee, 
14 Tex. 91 l. Wher: th<-rn l!! no etat('[nent of rnct11. nE'ltber lnstrncttona, nor tli<' refll1111l to give them, will b@ 
revll!l'd. LR";~ v. Black., 16 1'4.'x. 668. In llawklns v. Lee (2'l TeL 5411). this court anlmndverted upon the
pr:u:tlce or ~rullTii,: HJ'l the (•ntlre d<'posltions or witnell8e8.. Tbc conrt may well refuse to revise, when, th.-ro te 
1uob an unnecoNarlly volumlnou~ recorll. Stone ,·. Ti,yJor. 29 'l'Px. 000. Where evldt'IU.'C ,rn.., improperly excluded, the jud~cnt will not be reV'el'!!ed wlthont a statement of facta. Cottrell v. T~nlt,n, 
26 Tex. 810. And the bill or exeeptlone should show clearly whnt evidence was excluded. 8tephen1 -..
Boweman, Tyh•r T. 2i Tex. 211. Wl1<•rc utl..i,·r p11rl!1 or tho record arc reterred to as a f,art of the stntement
offacta, tht>y shoul,l be i,l,.ntiti,•<I. sun, to bri1,~ t ... for1• the court clearly and untulstakab y, the eYid,mce ul!ed 
on the trlal, Ill. The 1<1111,·1ut·111 of facts must lw bi;:n.,,I by th« jutl~e, as well us the Jl3rtle11 or their attorno,._
Ro1111 v. Armstrong, 2:. Tex. Supp, 366; 'f:mlllT v, Th .. ~tar.•, :! J T,·x. rn . J.11,~ .. v v. Ai-h,,, 21 Tex, 894.
An agreeruent of counsel to wui ve the wnnt of tho ju,!::,''~ certtrieato, wiil not cure th-;, oml811iun. Sbelrlon "· 
Boyce, 20 Tex. 880. The statement must be eonclse, If tho statutes of other states were In proof, they Bhould
be eopled Into tho record, or aptly rl'forr,ld to, 1111,I produced In the supreme court at the al"g'ument. If the 
proofs consisted In deliosith•n8, the substanc .. should be condensed, und not the whole commtsetons, Interrogato­
ries, and answers cop ed. Hawk lns v. Le,', 2-L Tex. Mii. The Lill of exceptions, found ln the record, under the 
hand and seal of the presh.lin,; jutl)!(•, contains a full statement of all the facts ~lven In evidence, according to 
the cerrlficate attached thereto, and we must presume was Intended to embrace both a statement o( !acts, as well
u a Lill of exceptlons, Bennett v, Dowling, 22 Tex. 602. The opposite party la not bound by tho statement oC
tacts In tho bill of exceptions, Carolan v, Jl'1fer11on, 24 Tex. 231. 
And It' there be nothing In th« pleadlngs to warrant the verdict, the judgment will be reversed tor an errone­
ons charge, Neill v. Newton, :!4 Tex. 202. Aa where there was no statement or aggravation, In tho petmoa, 
which authorized vindictive dumages, and the court charged the jury that they mtght find vindictive dllmagea,
and the jury found them. ~, Ill, r, Xewton, 24 T,•,.:. 202. Otherwtse, If a good action be statcrl. McLemore Y. 
McClellan, 11 Tex. 12-l. Wherl' tho statement 111 sigm•d by the counsel of" but one of the partie&, It will be pre­
sumed that tho other r,,fused to mnk e uny statement, or to slgn ; and Jx,tng authentleated by the judge, It will be 
received. (Kelso v, Townsend, 13 Tex, 140; With(•o v. May, S Tex. l(iJ.) I...Rc.4.,y v, Ashe. 21 Tex, 895. Bot
where there ls 110 notice of ap1tt·11l, the wtnnlng pnrty is not compelled to present a statement of facts. Id. In such 
coses, the statement of one party, sumcd by tho judge, on writ of rr ror, will Le rt·jl·rlcd. especially it slgn(,d out
of term. Otherwise, If the partles 11g-ree on a statement of facts, or both submlt statethents, ld. 
The requirement of the seals oft Ill' purtles nnd of the judge, has seldom been obsi;rted, is absurd, and nugatory.
Lacey v. Ashe. 21 TPX. 89i. On error, the statement of facti:; was slzued by on,' of the counsel, and certtfted by tlle
jud~e. The furei:olnl{ section was quoted, and It wus said :-Th,• !act thnt In this case the judge certified to the fact.a, 
would t'reatc the presumption, or nt any rote Atr.'nirthen It, tl..iat the parties had not agt'l'(,d to a statement of
tacts. Kel!'>O v. 'low11se111!, 18 Tex. 142. It was bl'l<l sullicicut. Id.: Bati;mnn v. Bateman, 16 T,·x. Ml>. And 
so when signed Ly th(' j11dzc only. llurlan v. Haynie, 9 Tu.x. 462. i'he i;tatl'tn<'nt should 1*., that th,•y are tlu
f,icf.8,-th:it is, aU tht• facts. Camphdl v. Skldmor,·, 1 Tex. 4"iG. Where the part.it's agrel"d of record that the 
l
udze 11houlit m11ke II stittl.'m<mt of facts out of wrm. and no objections Wl.'rc m11dl" In the supreme oourt, the
n<lgc's stn!ement was con:11<11-red. Barnette v. lllrkl\. 6 Tex. 3NJ. But not whc·ro It was e.lgtwd by" the late 
udi.te," who had reslimed. Prewitt v. Woocls, t 'l'<'x. b-12. Ir the bill or ex<X>ptlon~ show cl"rtlrs of la-«·, as the
mprop<'r exclu~lon of (ffidenct>, the judgment will ht, revC'rl,\{'<I llithout a 11tatem .. nt of facts. (Harve-_y v. HUI. 
7 Tex. 591.) Fox v. Sturm, 21 'l'l"X. 407. An affl,hl\·lt for a new trlnl, (ln th1• ~un<I of m•wly discovered evid<'noo,
will not bt- coni,lder<'d In the ab~n<'e or a st.at,,nll"nt of faeta.. (Harvey v, Hill, 7 Tex. :1111.) Id.; Haya v.
"Yarborough, 21 Tex. 4Si; Land v. :",! ilkr, 7 Tex. 468; Wnrd v. 'fown1w111l, 2 Tl":<. u&l; Pundereon v. Lov~ 8 TeL
60. Nor on account or irnrprise. (Walling v. Kinnard, 10 Tex. t>12.) Arnold v. Williams, 21 Tex. 41.(. Tl!iL 
orti,.'1nal pnpers, or,1,·rNI to be sent up by the j11d!'•·.will 11ot. <>fthcmEch·et-, be regarded as a 11tatcmoot offa.ett1. Po9
derson v. Lon,, 8 Tex. l>l. Rcc,ords 110<1 p11\tt"ri; filed, but not. made a part of tho reccrd by pleadlni;:, bill of E'X~p­ 
tlons, or ~tntemoot or facts, will not be r,·g11r,h•d hy tlw supremt1 court. Dui,rgnn v. Cole, 2 Tux. 8S1. And they
\\'Ill bt.• strlckl'n out, on motion. Castro , •. lllh·i1, 11 1'<'X. 39. The rulings upon lnstructiuna to the jury, will not
bo roYi~<'<l In tlw nbl'enc.- ofa st:,!emcnt of facts. (Arm~troni: v. I.lp~comb, 11 T<'X. 649.) McMahon v. Rioe, HI
Tex. 8:W; Dnlby v. Booth, Id. 66.1.. Not so Ill! to th<' a,lmil'Slbllitv of ll\'l<fonc,•. D11lby v. Booth, 16 Tex. fl«>. The
absence of a statement ot' fact11, and of the· chargl' of tho court. cannot be suppllt>d by affidavits M to what they 
were. GArnc•tt v. Jfobcrt!\, 16 Tl':ot. N"J6. 1'he <>ntrlc!\ ot' rullnj!'!!. 118 to positive r~cts, wlU control a !'tatement ot 
fa.e~ but a statement of facts will control a ml·re umlst>ion In thP entries. Parr,·. Juhn8ton, 15 Tex. 296. In the
abRenco of a stntcm<>nt or facts, or blli of CX('{>ptions, or <•m>r di~closed, we must pl'E'1111mc that the ,ddtet and 
Ju<lgment were riirhtly rendl'red, and upon sntticlent t-vldl'nce. Jones v. Black., 1 Tf:L 627. Ullimponant and
frrelevant matter should not lncumber tho statement. Wright v. Wright, 6 Tex. 20.. 
APPEAL TO SUPREME COURT. 
AnT. 1491. (789) (136] Any party taking an nppeal, shall, within twenty 
days after the term of the court at which the ju<lgmcnt or decree was ren·
dered, enter into bond with two or more sureties, to be approved by the
clerk of the court, in double the amount of the debt or damages, or the value
of the s1sves or other personal property adjutlgt·d, conditioned for the prose­
cution of the appeal with effect, and performing the judgment, sentence, or
decree of the supreme court, in case the decision of the said court shall be
against the appellant. 
583. Where twenty d&\·s had elapl!ed before the bond was iih'en, the 11u11reme court had no ju.rilldlctJon.,
and a judgment renden·,l by ft was a nullity, and m11y l,e so declared nt a sub5equent t«nn. Burr v. Lewis, 
6 Tex. 81. If the bond idenlit\" the cnt>e b\"' tlw tit)(, 110,I num lwr In the dock<·t. it i~ suffkicut. It need not name
the defendants who tlo not 11pJ;ca1. Jlerncton ,·. Br<•mond, I j T<·x. 41l2. A nwre blank hond, 111)rncd by the apf'('l­ 
lant and suretlrs, i~ insufficient. Whl1l11g v. Pi-ttus. I 'i"l'X. HI!. It must not ml~d1·sl·rihc the partl<'s. llollis 
Y. Border, 10 T,,x. 21S; McG11rrah v. Bnmcy. 4 Tex. 2-.~. The nppell:mt rnnnot n~~i~n ,•rrnrs commltwd alone
against his co-1!.,fendants, which do nut ntr,·et him. (11,·ndrll-k v. Caunon, Ii T,•x. l!-b: ~nrtuln v. Hamilton, H 
Tex. MS: Ch1·athnm v. l:1,J,11,•, !< Tox. H\t.) lkrn<lun v. Hr<"mund, Ii Tt'X. 4.'>1. And l'<.·1· Trnmml'II ,·. Tram·
mell, 15 Tc·x. 2111!. The names of th,• s1trt•ties nt•e•I not apJwat In the t.,wly of the bond. Cook<· , .. ('rawford,
1 T,•x. 9; Ilirams v. Colt, J>ulln111, 4.'"iO. Tlw seo:11riti1·~ on 11 ~·q1w1>trntlon l,ond, may b<· th" S<'Cnritl,•s on the
appeal of the principal, nit hough If th<> j11d~111 nt fl!!:\i 11~1 th,· princi,,:tl ln' r<•vcrsl'tl, that n~ini<t the 1rnretks won Id 
fall to tl1e irroun<l. Trnmmdl v. Trinnnwll, 1,'> T(·X. :!II:!. But su,· 1 S<>cnrltics ci11111ot nMi1m crrol"i! on their prln·
ctpnl's aprw11l. Id. Tht• h<11l(\ must 811h~tantlally pursue th(' statul.:-. Lat.nm<·rv. Th<· ::;1a1,,, II 'J',,x. 4.").',. But tr 
It do not., tbe nppellant mny lmnwdiat,•ly l,!h·e a suttiei,,11t on<• in tb11 1mpr,·me court. lei ; 8hdton v. Wade, 
4 Tex. 100. Tbls l!<'ctlon comrmretl with s,•etion 1:~ i-cc•ll v. All,•n, 1 T,·x. MO. Where the judgment w~ the
qunehal ofan execution. a bourl 111 <l•mbl1· th1• amo11ut oftb<:> cost~ ls sutttclcnt. Scott v. Allen. 1 Tex. MO. The
receiving a co-deft•ru!ant as !tm·ty, I,; improper; hut If then.· be two fl•.1od surdks, without him, the objection Is 
not fntal. Hollis v. Bonier, 10 Tl•X. 2iS.. If ther,• be but UDl' otlwr S<'Curity, It ls fot.nl, although th,• 1'o·defon<l11.11t
was bot 1mrety on uppenl from a ju~ti,·,,. McGnrrah v. BurnPy. 4 T,•x. 2t-S. It. l~ not necesiSllry thnt the appellant
should :1lgn theap1wal bond. The skn:1tur<' of the suretiPS i~ sultiel,•nt. ~h .. lton v. W11dP, 4 T,·x. 150; Laturner v. 
'l'he Stoto, 0 T .. x. 4.'">li. Bnt If It he ~iiwe1l nftt-r the d,,ath of thl· nppellunt. the fact mny bt.• shown hy :1ffirlavlt,
and the ca.se dl11mls,;e1l. Dial v. R1,rtor, 1 :! Tex. !10. Or If th..lJOnd b<' nntl'rlate<l an<l lntNT><>lat,-d nmon~ tht• pap<'rs,
the Mme courr;c wlli he tnken. Hnrrls ,·.Hopson,/'\ Tex. ~31. Ifth,·r,• hl' hut 0111• snrety, th1· app,•nl \\ill oo dis­
missed. Hooper v. Brlnt!On, 10 Tc•x. Ir.Ill. If, ofter tnkln~ the bond, tho ckrk Rhould fall or rd't1i,r to !lend up a 
transcript of the record., a -ma11d<1m1111 will II,•. Hut the court will not control hl:1 rli~cr,·tion In ju<l!rlna or the
autHciency of the appP.nl bond. ML'."er v. Carolnn. 9 Tex. 2M. If SC\'er.il <iPfrndnut~ ~,·v,·r In a lnnd can~·. and
there 11rc 11<weral ludgment11, there· ~hould be fl<'nrnl app,-al bonds. f.'bamht•rs v. Fisk. 9 Tex. 26'2. If' the jo~· 
ment ht',revorscd. the s11n:tie~ Ill"(' tlischar~<'rl. McCoy v. ,Jon, ~. 9 T,·x. )lf,6. Tht• c1111rlltfon :-" Tf !'11\id app<·llant
should sustain hl11 upf1eal, nnd pro~c·<'llle It with rtt"ect, lh• n." &:c., Is voi,1, n~ nn appeal 111,1111. l'hamb<·rs v. Mllll'l",
7 Tex. 75. Thi~ !l<'"I nn and the c"nditi<,n <'<>mpar,·<I. r>o~5 , •. Ori~wol<l, 1 'r(·x. 100. The condition of tlt,• bond 
llhtJuld pnr!IU(• the ~hi 11t,'. I rl. Th,· 11•,· of th<' wor,I "or," inst,•:111 of'' arid," Is nu ol,j,•,•tiou. Hobin;.on v. Brin­
son, 211 Tex. ~O. Th<· net ,,f ::'~,! fl,,,.,-mbur. J-.::11. r,·,p1ir(,tl thl1 app,·al ,tnrin~ th,, t<'rm: the act of Jll'c,'mhn. b37, 
tmve sh •lays_ after th,· cl,,,.._. ,,rt 1," t,·nu, to ;:-iv,• l.,01111. wh,·re notice had l.,ec·n l!i ""II during the tt.,rm. By th,· act
0U1th Feb. l~il, the tim,· for filin~ L01ul wa~ l''!.lt-nd,·<l •r twenty da~·11. ~:'\lcKt·usie v. Hamilton, Dallam, 461; 
Ml\nlovo v. Kinney, Dall11m, 493) Lock.hart v. Lockhart, I '!'ox:. i!OO. 'l he notice of apJ)\.>al L8 cssenU&L Id.
{•Affirmed. Joul'dan v. Cham.lier, 3i Tex. o5.J 
The appellant cannot h11,.e the beneflt or the extension ut' tlme, hy the D('W statute, for that would be rt:trnncN-r:e.
(Taylor v. Duncan, Dnllarn. M-1.) l•I. 20".!. \\"ithout an appeal bond, the ease wlll L.• dlsrntssed. Corporarlon of 
Butrop v. Glltnort>, Dallam, :,,a. Bond and notice. No"el v. Garthwaite, 26 Tex. 68i; Lyell v. Guadaloupe
Co. ss 'fe:s:. ~7; Loftin v. Nalley, Id. 127. 
§ 1492. {790) [1371 Where the jndgment is rendered for the recovery
of lands, the judgment below shall operate as a specific lien upon the lands
so recovered ; but in such case, the appeal bond shall only be required for the
costs of suit and damages on appeal. 
584. The bond should be &ufflclent to cover all the ooet.8 fn the supreme and district conrt. Bmltb v. 
Cbenthnm, 12 Tex, 85; McCoy v, Jones. 9 Tex. 866. This waa the law before the etatnte where the rents were 
not In Issue, Hirams v, Colt, Dallam, 4M. If for too small a sum, the objection may be obviated hy giving
new bond. Smith v. Cheatham. 121'ex. 8S; Hollie v, Border, 10 Tex. 279. The new bond may be given Imme­
dlately, and a copy certified to the supreme court. Shelton v. WR(fo, 4 Tex. 149. But tble rtitht to ~ve a new
bond, ls confined to cases where tho bond Is lneuftlclent fn amount. Hollie T. Border, 10 Tt--S. ~9. If the
reeovery be for land, nnd 11lt1U for damnses, the bond should recite both facts. Horton T. Bodine, 19 Tex. 258. 
But in future, the objection must be mndo at the return term or the oppeA?: Id. 
ART.1493. (791) [138] In case the party be unable to give the appeal
bond required, such party may nevertheless appeal, by giving security for no 
more than the costs and damages of the appeal ; but in that case, the ju<lgment of the court below shall operate as a lien upon all the property <Jf the 
appellant, and the sheriff shall take possession of his personal prnperty, and
keep possession of the same, or so much thereof as will be sufficient to sati::.:fy
the judgment of the appellate court, during the pendency of the appeal,~
unless the appellant should execute a bond, made payable to the appvllee,
with at least one good and sufficient security, whose solvency is to be jud~ed 
by the sheriff, conditioned that such personal property shall be forthcoming
to be sold in satisfaction, or part satisfaction, of the judgment that may be 
rendered by the appellate court. S.u. -,i r t11t 
585. The bond .•ho111'1 show on Its rnct• that It was designed to comply v.-lth this section ; and should be ID 
a surn, In l<>rnt' r,·a~onnhlt· ,1,.~c. to eover the u111,,1111t uf co~ts and damaice11. l>oea v. Grtawold, 1 Tex. 101.
Ap11t.""1 bond folly ,li::1<:1111.>ec.!. ,Janlll v. La.ngham, ~ Tex. 413. 
•
THE TRANSCRIPT . 
§ 1494. (792) (139] That when by appeal or otherwise, a case shall be
taken from the district court to the supreme court, the clerk of the district
court shall immediately make up a foll and perfect record of all proceedings 
in such case, and shall, on application of either party, give to such party an
attested copy of such record, with a taxation of all costs that have accrued
thereon, and shall indorse on such copy the day on which it was demanded,
and the day on which it is deli vered, and sign his name, as clerk, thereto;
and if, hy reason of delay or neglect of any clerk to give a transcript of the
record in any case, the same shall not be filed in the supreme court in due
time, or if the record be erroneously or incorrectly made up, so that the
suprl'me court cannot proceed thereon to final judgment, such clerk shall, in
either case, upon conviction thereof before any court of competent jurisdic­
tion, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor in office, and shall Le fined in a
sum not exceeding two hundred dollars, to the use of the state. 
586. Thi· clerk of the district court cannot nlter the tronscrtpt,a1'h•r It 111 fill'fl In the supreme conrt. Davie
v. Gt•h,·,·. :!4 T•'X. 1!11. Nor wlthbold the transcript. until the cost for mnkln~ It be pnld, 1Jc.mdon Y. Costley, 
i T1·x. 160. The first clause, In this section, can barn no other meaning than that tho clerk should make up what,
at the <lute of the act um] previously, had been known Ma complete or finu.l record. Morj?llll v. Haldeman, 20
Ta. :fJ. Tl11·1-c has ber-n no r,•r11 al of thi~ prov h:lun; nnd though no fee 111 now specltlcally allowed by the stntute
for maklni: out th<' complete record, y"•. If oue bto made out, under the order of the court, the clerk Is entttk-d to 
hls f,·e. Id. Tbi11 record to be 11t the expense of the losing party. Id. But If no flnnl record be made, no chlll"(re
cnu Ix- nllow•·d for it. Stt-wlll"t v, Croshv, 11} 'ft>x. 518. Rules of the supreme court. In rclntlon to the trllDl'CrlJJts, 
arc hut directory fo the clerk, aud sbonld not be enforced to defeat substantial rights, pursued with reaeoaable
dill;:enc,·. U,lnys v, Forbea, 9 TPx. 486.) Wright v. Bonta, 19 T(•X. &'-8. The want of ~M·al upon the tic>, may
be l'IIJ'Jlllt-d by certiorari, Mnys v, Forbes, 9 Tex. 436. Tho Indorsement oC the d•of delivery, I~ tor the 
beneflt of the pnrry, to enable him to show tlill;z<'nce. ~·rti;rht v, Bouta, 19 Tex, 3&S. An appeal will not be dls­
rol:t~"I for the want or the Indursem .. nt. ~Iii burn v. Walker, 11 Tex. 8~>9. But. an aftlrmnnce, without N'fcr.-uoe 
to tho m<·rlt~ will not be allow,·d withont thl!! lndon!em1·nt. Hnrrls v. Williams, 4 Tex. :J89. No pnper found in
the tllc>s should be lnS{'rt.-d, unkss It bad l1t·<'n us,•d In the case, or the <'onrt ha,l ordt•rt·d It to bt• made a Jmrt of 
the rt·l·ord; and out• in"<'rt.lon l!I nit t hnt will Ix· 11llownl. C'u:<t.ro , •. lllks, II T t·.x. ll!I; W ulker ,·. Burbrid,re, 17
'f<'x. 6:,0. }:n•ry pllp<·r In 11 <'allS<• ~honltl lit' markc·d fiktl, and tlw clerk should coJ•Y the date uf filing. WOO!!tcr
T. Mctiee, 1 Tex. 20. And by eo11jun1:tlo11"· from tht• llll'mornndu, i:lv,~ 11 pr,'t"lse hlstorv uf cv<'ry occurr,•ncc In 
Its order. Grnyson v. Cutnmiu,;, Vnll,1111. ll!IJ. 'J'hb t1Cetiou l'OUl[llU'NI wltb the next. l!1·ynold11 v. Dechp11me11,
2'.! Tt·x. tlS. 1. The clerk ~hall mak,· u full nod compJ .. te n•c,ml. 2. Fpon tbc nppllt~tlon or dtht'r 1onrty, he
shall ,rh,• t.o him an attt•!!kd copy of It. lint thh; la~t only IIJIOU appll<'atiou. Nor 114 it the duty or the clt·rk to
11cwl tl11· rc·cord to the ~uprem,· court; and If h<' un,J.·rt.ak<' to du 80. for t tlh(·r pnrty. It Is not n!I ckrk. but 118 Jigt'nt 
of i-ueh r,arty. Id. W her,· tlr(·re h:i~ 1 ... , 11 un app,·nl, nnd th,· <'IISt· hns l)Hn !'-<·Ill l,:1ek for furtlwr prt,et·t·din,rs, thc
first 11u1mlatc should be ropl .. d lut.u tht· lJ'Unscript of I he :,;t•coml npJHal. ~k .\ (pl n v. B,·nndt. ~I '1,•x. f,;.15. Mti. A
tnmscri\,t cannot be p, rf1...:t without intr,~luciu~ ll1't,·r th,, caption, In the ord1·r t,f their occ111Tc·n1'<!. the pt•lltlon
au,i tixb Uts, It nny; the proct:S.'I nncl r.-.turu; th~ pkn, nnswl'r, aud utlu•r J1lt:adings; the inkrm,•dlutt' O"dt•ra 
uf the , ourt; and hu,tly. th.-. po,t,11 nn,I jn,li:mrnt (:m,J now tlw n~~i1rnuwnt of <'rrors). B:,t•b or the!M' ~lwultl be
preceded by ~ l11tr1,duct.on· c1111ju11cth·t· ~tai.-w,·nl conn«•<'tin!o[ It with the cause, or showing lho Ume wheo 
made or tlloo. Gray110n v. Cumu1lue, Drill:nn, alll. The whule abould be tranafcrrod to a roourd book. Id, 
ABT. 1495. (793) [140] The· clerks of the several district courts, shall 
grant writs of error upon any final judgment, order, or decree, rendered in 
their court upon the petition of any party interested. Upon the filing of
any such petition, the clerk shall issue a citation, directed to the sheriff of
the county where the opposite party is alleged to reside, together with a
copy of the petition, commanding him to cite such party to be and appear
before the supreme court, at its next term after the citation is issued, and
defend said writ; which citation and copy of petition shall be served by the
sheriff to whom it is directed, and shall be returned to the court from which
it issued; and all such citations shall be returnable in thirty days after the
issuing thereof; and if the party is a non-resident of the state, or cannot be
found, the citation may be served on the attorney of record ; if an7 such
citation shall not be served, the clerk shall issue an alias, or pluriea citation,
forthwith. Upon the return of any such citation served, the clerk shall
immediately make out a complete transcript of all the proceedings in the
suit upon which the writ is obtained, and also the petition for the writ of
error, and the citation issued with the return thereon, and deliver it to either
party on application, and under the same rules and penalties as provided in
case of appeals: no such writ of error shall operate as a eupereedeas, nor
shall a supereedeas issue with any such writ, until the party obtaining the
same shall have filed with the clerk issuing such writ of error, his obligation,
with good and sufficieut security, to be approved by the clerk, payable to the
adverse party, in a sum equal to double the value or amount of the judg­
ment, order, or decree upon which the writ of error is obtained, conditioned
that the party obtaining such writ shall comply with the judgment, order, or
decree of the supreme court upon such writ, and well and, tr2ly pay all such 
damages as may be awarded against him; which bond snau have the force
and effect of a judgment against all the obligors, upon which execution may
issue, in case of forfeiture. 
& ST. The appllcant must be n party to the record, or hl11 privily must appear in iL Smith T. Gerlach, 2
Tex. 426; Thomas v. Jones, 10 Tex. M. And the prhity must have continued. Graham v, Blackbnrn, 10 Tex, 
814. When the defendant is I\ r,·11ldc11t or the state, service of the citation upon the attorney cannot be sui;t.-uoc.d;
and the Cll8C mny be dismissed In the supreme court, on motion. Holloman v . .Middleton, 2a Tex. 688. (Cites
.A~lns v. Forehand, 10 Tex. 2i0; Hughes v. Burleson, Id. 290; Jameav. Gray, 8 TeL fll'-) But the petition for
tho writ of error, Is not dlsmlssed ; and a party may sue out nnothcr citation, and proceed to perfect servtee, 
Id. The nctlon of the court ha.ti sometimes been, to strike the caac trom the docket. (Davenport v. Field, Ii
Tex. 94.) Id. Th» ~11\,r,·111e court 1lo<•s not acquire j11rlt11lictlon of the csueo, until after eervlee of the ,rrlt of
error. Whcr<' service ins Ix-en ncknowlcdc .. d by an attorney. tho supreme court will presume his aulborlty.
Id. Wh<'re th<• ,l ... f,•n,lunt cannot Le found, there need be no alia" citation to the attorney. Owen v. Taokonly, 
12 Tex. :w. If the r.,gi,lt·nr<' of tho dl'f<'udnnt& is not known, tho plaintifff should allege the fact In bis applka·
tlun for the writ. to authorize its serviee on the nttomey. James v. Grny, 8 Tex. f>H,• And the non-resldenec of the
defendant should be Mat ... ,! ln the cltatlon, Whot>ler v. Tho State, S Tex. 281. But if the ortgtnal peuuon
showed that the •h frr11lant w1111 n non-residr-nt, and the service wu upon his attorney or record. It Is sufficient... 
Mllb v. Howard, 12 Tex. 10. It Is the petltton fur the writ of error, of both the defendants below, and not the 
s11perxf,lt'1111·b1111d, which 1,in:1 the supreme court jurisdiction of th,• case, nnd by the petition wo MO to deter­
mine the part ies to the writ. Thompson v. Honse, 23 Tex, 179. Tho affidavit of one of the defondnnte, that
he luul not authorized his sli:nuturo to the bond transcrfbed into the record, will not be noncod In thnt wny. Id. 
A citation from the supremo court cannot Issue to perfect service. Crunk v. Crunk, 28 Tex. 606. Spann v.
French (ta 'J'l'X. ()f) is cited a~ authority for such n procced hur. Thal eus..• was overruled by tho case of Cham­
lwr, v, !:-\hriw (Hi Tex, 148), whereln It was held, that the cltatlon In error, Issued by the district court. must be
9.,.·wd. before the cause can be properly brought Into this court. Crunk v. Crunk, 28 Tex. 600. The drat clause 
or the act embraces all judguients In civil suits, hT,'SJ"'ctlve of the parties thereto; and, coo.aequeotly, judg·
mcnts to which the state Is a party, are Included, °\\ heeler v. The State, 8 Tex. 280. The eervlce should be 
111~·11 the attorney representing tho state, whether he be the attorney of record or noL Id. 229-281. See the 
"
u,·~l Ion of service fully discussed In this c:iso. At the full term, 1839, the recognl.zauoe waa forfeited., and a
11111-(m,·nt 11v.i Wll8 t'ntered: which judgment was mado final at the succt>edlng term, without any previona 
bs1mnce of 11cire fadaJJ, A writ of error WllS Issued upon the p.'tltloo or the attorneys of th!i! defendant&. In
order to ohtnln a wrlt of error In crlmhuu cases, on the trial of which bis personal apl)t'al'IUlce la required by law, 
the 111,r,ll~'lnt should t"Q»dt·r hlmll<·lf into cu!ltody, nnd come In person to the proper authority to pray It to be
allow(•1l him. Edward•. Thi' Hl'puhllc, Dallam,~. [186. • 
This section, nod t.lJ<' oth nnd 6th st•ctlone or the supreme court act. compared. Chambers v. Shaw, 16 Tex.
14~. If th,·re be no Sf'rvloo of tlw citation, thero can be no ntHrmance. ld. :8ut the defendant mny acknowle•il,l'e
Bl'nicc in the court bdow, 11n1l bring up the record. Id. And move for nfflrmanoo with dama;e!I. ntngharn v.
Wy~e. 14 Tex. i.12; Brown ,·. Hancock, 18 Tex. 22; Mon1!l0n v. Lewis, Id. 64. Or he may demand executl•1n for
the w:mt of citation. Charnh,·rs v. Shaw, lG Tex. 145. Upon fl ling the npplleatlon nnd hond, the clerk should 
l11s110 the cltntfon irnme<littt,•ly, notwllhstnudlng instn1ctlon11 to the contrary. (Wheeler v. The Rt.ate, 8 'rE'X. 2'J8,
234.) • l<l. It the term uf' the ~111,r,•nui court expire without Aupl'rudl'a8 sued out, It will be lotil Roberts \",
Landrum, 8 Tox, 1 i. If th(' ;;t:it" ho a pnrty. th!' r.itation shonl<l lll' scrHd on th,· ti I strict attorn<>y or the attorney·
gen<'ral. And If tho writ run :i;.raln8t !ht• i,tal<', it shouht <h-signato who IR to be sen·l'd. \Vhcdt"r v. The 8~
8 Tex. 232. Th,· writ of <'rror Is Rnother mode of brini:tuc up tho ~'llll!II' for revision of law and fads.. ai. upon
appl'lll. (Ch<'ek ,·. Hoi;rrrs, 1 'f\·x. 440: E-mlth v. Galnch, 2 'l'L•X. 420.) Lu<'kPtts v. Town!l(>nd, 3 Tex. 126. .\..nd 
damaacs for dday, m:1y be allkc nwsrr!Nl on boU1. Id. Ap1t<'11ls WPrL• only known. until the :>tntute of l&ll,
which first ~nrn th<' riµ-ht tu the writ pf <'rror. Id. The practlc0 111 llw Mme In both. I1l nut undl'r thlll 
st11tute the plaintifff en11l1l not br r .. q11ir,·1l fo '!ivr ll<'l'llrlty. (l'urm·r v. llnrnllton, 6 Tex. 2ri0.) Id. The appli­
cation for thc writ of , rrnr. 11hn11l,l 1h·~1·iil,e thl' j11d1o:1111int with rl'11t101u1bll' Ct.>rtalnt.v. Gmhrun v. 8u,rn11, 16 Te:a.
Ir>6: Dnvlt1 v. Dnrllm:. 20 Tex. soil. But If it and tlw rltntinn i.l V() tlw number·.,, the ~. tlJC nnmc:1 of the
pnrll<'S, anti da!P of thP .lurl~nHnt. It I~ ~ntlirl,•nt. ForiihPy v It. R Company, Hi Tex. I'>~:'>: Turner v. JTnmllton,
6 Tex. 'lM. Nothln~ less. Wright \". \\'illl:uns, 12 1'11:t. 36; 1101-ton v. Wboeler, Ii Tt•it. 5.'i If It fail In :i.reu­ 
racy, o. &·com\ petition may !.,(' 111<>•1. lla,·is v Du.rllng, 20 Tet. 8011. And ff the first writ IA dlsmt-1 on
account of Rny lnformnllty, or 111'!,•d In prosecnllng U., R ~c,md may be brou~ht. Mn~·;i \". Forbes, 9 Tex. 4U. 
The application need not M&ign the cnu11ea. It is a writ of 11ghL Turnnr v. HRDlllton, 0 Tex. 2M. The def('ndant
(•Re~idPnm m1111t he Mtnll'd, Jlooorts v. Solib~ll1111, 10 Teit. 3~2; Owen v. Tnnklersl<'y, 12 Tl'X. 311. And if 
tl1rorn h· ~ror, j('O on th<> nltornry, n·ason mmt lu• 1:dn•n. (llolliml\. v. Middleton, 23 Tex. 638; Dnni<'I v. Henn·,
31) 
T
t \' •n,t1•r<l)I\. :· 1 ~· ,,. £ 
uOOg e 
(a1>peD .. ), need not bring up a record. He may assign erroas, after t.he plaintUl"e application. 0a1)61't.on T, 
W'&n1low, 18 Tex. 184-. As to croes appeals, see Cochran v. Thompson, 18 TeL 667. The motion todfemtu tor 
Wll.Dt of certainty, is dilatory, and should be made o.t the first opportunity. Horton T. Wheeler, 17 Te:r. M.
If the petition be not 1111fflclcntly ccrtal°t it is cured it the citation fe certain. Hillebrant v. Brewer, 6 Tex. 667;
Wright,·. Wllllams, 12 Tex. 86. And ~ etwa4. Owen v. Tankersly, 12 Tex. 3S. It the defects in the writ 
of error can be amended by the record, Hmay be done in the &upreme court. Hillebrant v. Brewer, 6 Tex. MS.
The pnrty may waive the writ I\Dd citation ; but tr he do not, the cue will be stricken from the docket. Seybold
v. Boyd, 14 Tex. 460. Ir the first citation be not served, an aluu must luue "forthwith." Graham v. Stems, 
16 Tex. 1M It cannot issue two terms after filing the petition. Id. Nor flftoon months after the first ,um
Mt. Roberts v. Solllbellus, 10 Tex. SM. And 1100 McMillan v. Kelch, 16 TeL 161. It the defendant le a resident
of the state, 1t should aver the county of his residence ; then, upon the return of a "°" ,at., the tact may be averred,
and the citation may Issue to the attorney. Roberta v. Solllbellue, 10 TeL 3M. Or If he be a non-resident, the 
fact may be averred. and the citation mny IMue to the attorney ln the first lnl'tanoe. Id.; Forshey v. R. R. Company 16 ToL l'l'Ui. Where n defendant baa been served by puslleatfon, ho may have a writ of error, or prosecute 
a bill of review, under the statute. Doty v. Moore, 16 Tex. li98; Chrisman v. Miller, 16 Te:r. 169.
Tho defendant In error will not be permitted to obtain and fllo the tnuu1cr!pt before a return or the c!tatlon. 
Davenport v. Field, 12 Tex. 94; Mills v, Bagby. 4 TeL 824. .As a g11nenil rule, where the Judgment ta entire,
and the parties have not distinct Interests, a reversal M to one la a reversal as to all, (Burleson v. Henderson. 4 
Tex. 49.) Brown '"· Hancock, 18 Tex. 22. But where the maker of a promissory note was sued with the
Indorser, and the maker alone prosecuted error: held, that be and bis securfttes Wflre responslble for the conse- 
qucnooa. Id. A. writ or error does not lie from an Interlocutory Judgment, 11l11SOlYing an Injunction. Miller v.
Berry, 18 TeL 208. Nor from a judgment qnashlng o. eequestrnrton and restoring tho property In a land case.
Little v. Morr!&, 10 Tex. 266. And since the repeal of the 1418t section of thl!! o.et, B writ of error will not lie to 
revise an interlocutory Judgment, or 11ny order made during tho progress of tho cauee, until at'rer final Judgment
rendered In the ease, (Gross Y. McCloran, 6 Tex, 842; Stewart v. Jones, 9 Tex. 4i0; Byers v. Janel', 2 Tex.
629; Robinson v. Ballteul, Id. 160; Ewing v, Klnnllol"d, 2 Tex. 16-l; Warren v. Shuman, 6Tex. 441.) Little v. 
Morris, JO Tex. 266..
An appeal, or writ of error, must be docketed to tho term to which tt Is returnable, or It will lose all I ta force 
and eft'ect for every purpose whatever, Weathered v. Lee, 8 Tex. 190. .And cause OILllnot be shown at the next
term why It was not docketed. Urbane v. Johnson, 8 Tex. 192. The writ of error wo.11 Introduced as port of tho 
ayatem or the common law. Mooro v. Harris, 1 Tex. 89. It extends to all ju<lranents or inferior courts, Id.
60. One writ of error eannot bring up two distinct judJCl)lonta. Id. Tho bond wu unquestionably executed
after the death of one of the parties to whom 1t ls mado payable, nnd la a nulllty, I\Dd glvee no Jurledlcdon
of the ~ In this court. (Dial v. Rector, 12 Te:r. 99.! Johnson v. Robeson, 27 Tex. 627. It cannot be
regarded u payable to the surviving obllgee, Id. 1 be bo11J cannot be given to one of the 1,la!ntltf1
In the Judgment only. Id. All the pw-tlea to be dl'eoterl by the judgment ebould be secured. ld. All the 
parties 8'tl?rlevl'd by the Judgment (defendants and lntcrvcnors) may join tn proseeuttng error. 111\DCt>ek v.
Metz, t:I 'Fex. 200. Where lt does not appear who flled the transcript, it will be presumed that It was obtained 
by the party who ftloo It. Davenport v. Flelrl, 12 Tex, 94. Where tho flMlt record wo.s defective, and there was
a motion to dismiss, which wne suspended by the ~nt of a certiorari which wns never returned, but a new snd 
perfl'Ct record filed, the court refuse!} to recognize the ln11t record ns an amendment, Mays,·. Forbes, 11 Tex.
286. The \\'Bnt of a seal across the tie. Is fatal Id. Service of eltatlon by tho coroner, without an1 allegatton
or appearance of the statutory cause, 18 no St.·rrlet.>: Id. The judgment was rendered agulnst C. 21th October,
1866: execution 29th December then:·ant•r; writ ot rrror and tf'U['t>rRtdea11 bonrl. 16th Mnrch. 18.'IT; which wsa
approved, 2.'~tb same mouth: Judranent affirmed, 2&1 October, 1&;, ; execution &ftlllnet defendants and accurttles, 
2l!t Janunry. 1~'18: levied on the land 20th Februnrv, which was sold first Tuesdny of April. the Mme year. 
C. had purchased the lo.nd 27th October, lb."16, nnd soil It 1\lth Jnnnary, lShi, which wns a purchase "ftw the date
of the original Judgment, and a sale after the aftlrmunee •. Tho wt clause ln thla act quoted, We 11ald ln
Robertson v. Moorf'r (~ Tex. 442), that "the Judgment of this court, affirming t.he Jndgruont of the dlstnct 
eourt, ts the declaration of the forfeiture of the bond." Berry v. Shuler, 26 Tex, Supp. 140. And, "upon
1.he forfeiture, the lien which springs out of !t, relates back to the tlrno of the executfon of the bond. and 
binds the land or the surety, where the original JudgmC'nt Willi rendered from that time." (Robertson T. Moorer, ~ Tex. 442. And It b1111 the same e1fect upon tlw land of the principal, acq•1lred o.fter the e:recutlon of the
bond. Id. Tho bond tora6up~1udea1t must conform to the stetute, or Judgment cannot be rendered against the
11uretiea. Hymens v. Brown, 16 TeL 802. The motion to dlsmlse waa upon the ground that, before suing ont 
the writ of error, the flalntllf bad causc<l execution to be levl<'d, o.nd by sale of property, and the postponement
of the salo of persona property, the judgment was Blltlsfled bcto~ the writ of error was 1med out. Matters of
tact, alleged In a motion to dlsml11..", tr contro,·erted, mu11t be dcwrmlnetl by tho court. Where o.n execution le 
le,·led on pcrl!IOnnl pro11erty aulliclent to Mtist'y tho amount., and the propt>rty ls taken out or the Jl088('88ion of
the debtor, the prima faeu presumption ls, that the Judgment ls e:rtlngulshed. (Mountney v. Andrews, Cro. 
Eliz. 28T; Clerk v. Wltben. 1 Salk. 82'2; Lodd v. Blunt, 4 Mass. 408 · E0 part~ Lawrence, 4 Cow. 417.) The
United States v. Daabiel, 8 Wall tnot published). Such o. presumption 'b;;comea a conclusive one. tr ft appear that 
the officer wo.11ted the goods, or thnt tbey were lost or destroyed through bis fault, or that he misapplied tho pro­
ceeds of the sale, or that he retained the same, and did not return tho execution. Id. No such conclusion fiow1
from a levy or an execntton on land. because the o.cts of the officer, without a so.lo, OCC411lon no lose to the debtor,
and the creditor go.Ins nothing, aa the title and possession remain unchanged. (Shepard "· Rowe. 14 Wend. 460;
Taylor v. Ranney. 4 Hill, 621; Reynolds v. Rogers, 6 O. \74.) Id. Levy of an execution, even If made on per· 
aonal property sufflclen& to satisfy the execution, does not extinguish the judgment, tr the loyy ls overreached
by a prior lien, or If lt Is o.bl\ndoned at the request of the debtor, or for his benefit, or if it ls defeated by bis ml1oonduct. (Green v. Burke, 28 Wend. 601; Ostrander v. Wnlter, 2 Hill, 829; People v. Uopaon, 1 Den. 2T8.) Id.
The party must sue out the writ of error, and gh"o bond. Id. Nothing la better settled at tho common Jaw than
the doctrine that the ahcr!ff, lf he has made a levy before the •11per11ede<U1 comes, ls at liberty to proceed and eell 
the goods. (Merl ton v. Stevens, Wiles, 272; Boyle v. 7.acharlo, 6 Pet. MP.) Id. Partial l!lltlBfaction or the
judgment, wbether obtained by levy or voluntary payment, la not, and never w1111 a bar to a writ or error, nor
Cf.11 It be held that it Is a relOll!e of errors, or that It tnk.01 away or Impairs the jur!l!ldlct!on of this court. The
plalntlft', alao, may brlnll error to reverse bis own judinnent, where lnjuatloo lias been done him, or where the 
Judgement la tor a leu eum than he claims; but he, like the defendant, Is required to give bond to answer for
coats. (Johnson v. Jebb, 8 Bnr. 17T2; Sarles v. Hyatt, 1 Cow. 2M.) Id. .At common law write of error
operated 1111 a mpersed~<za. whether sn""1 out by the plo.lntltf or defendant. Motion denied. Id. The dlseentlt1nt 
opinion held that the motion oullht to 1,revatl: that o.fter the plnlntUr had elected to sue out ond levy his executfon, and collect the Judgment, ft wo.s extinguished : and he could not proACCnte error upon n 81ltlsfled Judgment,
and thus be allowed to split bl!! demand ; and that all tho authorities cited surportcd this proposition. {Laughlln.
v. Peebles, 1 Penn. 114: Uoberte v. Cantrell. 8 Hayw. 220; CD&ell v. Engln, 1 Mo. 80!\i Cunningham v. Honaton.
Strange, 127; Ball v. Hrabrowekl, 9 Ala. 278; Bradford v. Bush, 10 Ala. 278.). Id. 
§ 1496. ('194) f142] No writ of error shall be granted after the ex­
piration of two years l'rom the rendition of the judgment. Minors, married 
women, and persons non compos mentis, shall have the same time, or two
years, after their respective disabilities are removed. • 
588 •. The jud,nnent dates from the day ortte rendition, not trom the day ofadjonrnment. Waterhot111e v.
Love, 28 TeL 660. 'ln practice, tho writ of error does not Issue at all Crunk v. Crunk, 28 Tex. 606. It the 
appllcntlon and bond ho flied w-itliln two yenra, the p:irty mny proceed, after that time, to have the citation served
on the defendant. Id. A writ of error, lssue,l over two 7e.'\rs after the rendition or tho Judgment, wu ant.er·
talned, there being no motion to dismiss. Williama v. Cra1g, 10 Tex. 48T. 
AnT. 1497. (796) [158] A11 laws and partfl of laws authoMng partieJJ to
propound interrogatorie,; to each otLer, and aut.horizing writs of s. equestration
to be issued, are hereby repealed, and the following acts are also hereby re­ 
pealed :-An act establishing t)ie jurisdictiop and powers of th{! (listriot oourt, 
approved December 22d, I S:16; an a<'t amending the judiciary laws of the
republic, approved December l sth, 1837; an act to provide for taking tes­ 
timony by interrojratories, approved December I 8th, 1837; an act respecting
the abatement of suits, app1·, .ved 1\foy 24th, 1838 ; an act to regulate the pro­
ceedings in civil suits, approved Fehrunry 5th, 1840; an act to regulate the
granting and trial of injunctions, and to empower the judzes of the district
court to submit issues of fact to a jury in chancery oases, approved 25t.h
January, 1841; an act to amend the act which provides the mode of taking
testimony by interrogatories, to provide a mode for taking depositions, ap­
proved 9th January, 1841; an act to regulate bills of exceptions, approved
Janua17 28th, 1841; an act to prescribe the mode of servmg process and
notice m certain cases, approved 3<1 February, 1844; an act to prescribe the
duties of district judges, in regard to charging juries, approved 'February 5th,
1844; and the 19th section of an act of limitations, approved 25th January,
1841, is also hereby repealed. 
AN ACT TO PREVE:ST CO:SFt;SIO:S IN JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS, ARISl:SG FROK
REPEAL OF THE LAWS UXDER WHICH TUEY WERE BAD OR OCCURRED. 
§ 1498. (797) [l] The repeal of any statutory provision by this legis­
lature, shall not affect any act, decree, or right, accrued or established, or any
proceedings, suit, or prosecution, had or commenced in any civil case, previous 
to the time when such repeal shall take effect; but every such act, right,
or proeeedinjr, shnll remain as valid and effectual as if the provisions so
repealed had remained in force. 
AnT. 1499. (798) [2 J No action, plea, prosecution, or proceeding, civil or
criminal, pending at the time any statutory provision shall be repealed, shall
be affected by such repeal, but the same shall proceed in all respects as if 
such statutory provision had not been repealed, except that all proceedings
had after the taking effect of the statutes passed by the legislature, shall be
conducted according to the provisions of such statutes, and shall be in all 
respects subject to t.he provisions thereof, so far as they are applicable. 
SECURITY FOR COSTS. 
AN ACT CONCERNING PitOCEEDINGS IN THE DISTRICT COURT.
§ 1500. {801) [1] The plaintifff in any civil suit, at any time before 
final jud$'filent, upon motion of the defendant, or any officer of the court in­
terested m the costs accruing in such suit, may be ruled to give security for
the costs ; and if such rule be entered against the plaintifff, and he fail to
comply therewith, on or before the first day of the next term of the court,
the suit shall be dismissed. 
&89. The, plalntllf 11 only liable for hl11 o,.n coats, tr he sneoeed in the 1ult. And It there be fl.Vila bona
ae to the <ll'fen,bnt. execntlon may Issue n::aln11t the plaintifff for his own <'O!lts. bnt not for the flefondant.t1. Cleeve­
lan,I \', Henderson. 4 T .. x, 1.:,8. To obtain ihe rule for security Ji1r eoste, n mot Ion should be made and .. ntered on the 
uiotlon docket; when the order is madv, th" rule should be expressed In distinct and approprtnte terms, and bo
entered 1n the minutes or the court. Tht> entry on the juilgc's docket Is nut sufficient. t;backld'ord v. Wallace, 
-& Tex. 240. "I:ulc for costs," Is not sutflclent, Id. Tho clerk cannot refuse to l1111ue the writ without tho
security. Hulf v. l\kCreory, Dallam, W'.l, roo. .Aft<.'r a party baa onoo given security for costs, a second 11tlpula­
tlon can only be requtred upon notice, containing sullldent grounds, and the adjudientlon or the court that the
Jlrst sectulty was Insutllcleut, Herndon v. Rle«, 21 Tex, 4W. Tho rule may be eompllod with at any time beforo 
tho case hM been nctually ,!t,imls!!-ed. Ilnys v, Cllj.!1'. 2 T,•x. Ml; Cook. v, Bensley, l Tex. :191 · Rhodes v. Phll­
Hp:1, 2 Tl'X, 162. Till, r,lalntill' must have actual notice ot' the motion, Houston v, Sublett, 1 Tex. M8; Clute r. 
Ewlnc, 21 Tex, 6';9, Tho f'ause.. after <il!llnl:-M). mav t,., reinstated upon a reasonable ahowing why the rule for
costs had not been complied with. Union H,uik v. fl utli.r1·on11, 8 TC'I. 9. The objr-ctlon to the cost bond must be
taken within a rea~,ual,Je time, certainly bcforo trial. Herndon v. lllc.e, 21 Tex. 400, Thia section doee not apply 
to proceerllngs In 1•011nty nlbrtt1. Pierce v, Pieree, 21 Tex. 470. A rule for ooste la not a prlvllege or tho plalu­ 
tUfth and ho cannot object that the defendant walv<'s It. Hif'hardson v. Pruitt, 8 Tex. 227. The time fil't:'scrll>ed 
~62. e rule ls not obligatory, if the socurtty be given before tho csee 111 called for trial. Rhodes v. Phlll ps, 2 ToL 
§ 1501. (802) [21 All bonds given as security for costs, shall have
the force and effect of judgments against all the obligors for the said
costs. 
§ 1502. (803) (3] If either party to any process or suit shall desire
the testimony of the surety or sureties on his bond, given for costs or other
purposes in the cause, he may give other good and sufficient security, to be
approved of by the court, but shall not thereby delay the progress of the
cause : Provided, this section shal1 not apply to suits now pending. 
590. This section does not Include the dlscb~e uf a 11ecurlty upon bis own motion. That can only ti~
done with the consent ot the defendnnt; and when 80 done, he l.".annot 8jZ'nln ask security. Hlclt••y v. Rhine. 16 
Teit. l\77. Tn answer to a rule for secnrlt.¥ for costa, the pWnt.ttJ' may ml\ke nttl<IDvit, &nd bl, alk,wud to L,n•.,...· 
cute as a pauper. Id, Thie IIN!tton applies to attnchment bonde, Droke v. Bronder, 8 Tex. SM. But the l".oort
esn unly approve a bond with two securtues, as requlred by the attachment act. (Hartley, art. 28.)Dralte v. Brun·
der, 8 Tex. 866.. It Is best to gi ,e a new bond, Id. 
§ 1503. (804) [ 4] Executors and administrators of deceased persons'
estates, shall not be ruled to give security for costs in any suit to recover
money due or property belonging to the estate. And no security shall be
exacted of executors or administrators of deceased persons' estates, in ap­
peals taken in suing for such money or property, or in defending suits
brought against such estates for money or property. 
691. Thls sectton 111 In substanee tbe s:a.me a11 the 129th sectton or the act of 184fl; and where the !lnlt I•
ostensibly tor the b..•n£·flt of the estate, the administrator m:1y appeul without secnrtry. J-:nnl11 v. Crump, G 'I'ex, 
~; Damels v. Oreb'll· 18 T<·X. 3M. It controls the 123d s.·ctlon of the law In relation to the el'lt:iU•s of deceased 
'(l('l'80DS. Iluttle v, Howard, 13 Tex. :Ui. It dtlt'!I not violate the 24th sectlon of tho ith artlcle of the constt­
tution. Id. It docs not t'Xtl'ntl to «xernptton of J1roc,·,.,li11gs by certiorari. Ledbetter v, t'\wini:, 10 Tex. 242. 
If the matter eoneem the admlnletrator pereonally. he must ((Ive bond. Battte v, Howard, t!l Ti-x. 3-lS. Conn- 
1i,·, not exce.J.!!Nl. (Burr v. Lewta. 6 Tex. 76; L:Vt•IJ v Guadaloupe Co.~& Tex. bT.) Freestone (.;o, T, Brag~,
28 Tu. IU. LNol repealed. JODee T. Bugbel, 88 Tu. 698.] 
§ 1504. (805) [51 Suits may be commenced in the district courts,
apon all appeal bonds, given in the county courts, pertaining to the estates
of decedents and wards, and upon all bonds given in the district courts, to
remove causes of the estates of decedents and wards, to the district courts,
within four years next after the right of action shall have accrued on said
bonds, and not afterwards; saving to persons non compos meutie, infants,
and femes covert, two years after their respective disabilities shall be
removed. 
ABT. 1505. (806) r6] The bonds of executors, administrntors, and guar­
dians, and the bonds described in the section next preceding, may be/ut in
suit, in the name, and at the cost of any person or persons injure by a
breach thereof, until the whole penalty shall be recovered thereon, and with­
out the assignment of said bonds bemg made by the chief justice of the
county court. 
CITATION AND DEFAULTS.
§ 1506. (810) [10] All civil writs and citations (except subpoenas for 
witnesses and notices), shall be returnable on the first day of the torrn of the
court after the issuance thereof; and in order to compel the defendant to
plead at the return term of the court, the writ of citation shall he served
at least five days before the first day of said return term, exclusive of the
days of service and return ; and if the writ be issued too late, or can not be
served at least five days before the first day of said return term, exclusive of
the days of service and return, the sheriff or other officer, to whom the same
is directed, shall proceed nevertheless, to sesve the same, at any time before
the return day thereof; which service shall compel tLe defendant to plea: at
the first term after the return thereof. 
&92. The law of tho 22<1 December. ls&G, < stahlishlng tho dlstrtct courts.. required the '111-r!Ls to be "oxo­
euted nt least fl\'<• ,luy~ l><·for .. the rerurn d,y th,·rcof,'' O'C,mnor v. '1' .. wnes, 1 Tex. 109. The ease of Puzh v, 
The Duke of Ler ds, Cowper, il4 (which r e views all the Enzllsh authorities BS to the computation or tiwe),
exnrnlned, [,I. Hold, tlHt the ,hy or service. and the ,by or the commencement I)( the court, were both 
excluded. (Ttnnen v. Matthew~ Dallam, 491, for anal~y.) O'Connor v. Townes, 1 TeL 109.. Thia cuete ottod
ud approved ID Hyde ,·.White,~ Tex, 141. Ami tn Dlcksou v . Burke, 28 TeL lli. 
AnT. 160,7. (811) [11] That the return of the sheriff or other officer,
shnll be made in writing on the back of the process or attached thereto,
stating fully the time and mauuer of service, and shall be signed by him
officially. 
693 .. The return must show a sufficient l('~l service in Itself. Blessman v. Letehford, 1T Tex. M9. 
§ 1508. (812) [12] In all cases where process has been served, ac­ 
cording to law (except such cases as have been brought up from justices of
the peace), in which the defendant has not filed his plea on or before the
fourth day of the term of the court, the plaintifff may, at any time, after said
fourth day, have a final judgment against the defendant; and if the cause of
action is liquidated and proved by any instrument in writing, the clerk shall,
unless a jury is asked for by either party, assess the damages of the plaintifff;
but if the cause of action is unliquiduted, a jury shall be sworn to assess the
damages of the plaintifff: Provided, however, that in suits when service of
the process has been made by publieation, no such judgment by default shall
be taken at the term of the court to which such process is returnable; but
all such suits shall be continued until toe next term of the court, when final 
judgment by default may be taken as in other cases : and provided, also, in
all cases, that if the dofendur.t in person, cJr Ly h:H n~e 1t, or atlt orney, shall 
e 
appear in the case, without service of process being made or pertected, then
such appearance shall have the same effect as if the service of such process
was made or perfected. 
594. The withdrawal or a plea seems to be equlvalent to a default; and even admits the cause of Betton,
and wah"es trreguuuitie& Cartwright v. Ron, 1 Tex. 81; Prewitt v. Perry, 6 Tex. 262. And a suit aicalnst an
lndorser Is liquidated damages. Id. The proceedings to asoertain I.be damages must be the same In delaulta and 
ID n..Ail dicit3, after appearance, Btorey v. Nichole., 22 · Tex. 90. In other respects, the nihil diciu
have a atronger Implication In their favor. Id. Ir the defendant pleads and withdraws his defense, It
iB a fair Inference that he ssecnts to the jud,:ment. Wheeler v. Pope, ti ~x. 268; Burton v. Lawronee, 
4 Tex. 874. Where a note was signed by the husband and wife, and there w1111 no valid cause of action stated
a«atnst the wife, judgment by default against her is erroneous. (Kavanou,:h v, Brown, I Tex. 4&1.) Trimble v. 
Miller, 24 Tex. 2f5. Where the suit waa upon a note, and it WM averred that a further agreement was made, la
writing, which was appended to the note, which fixed the Interest at ten per Offltrtm per annum, and no
defense wu made, the matter was sufficiently liquidated to authorize the clerk to enter the judgment. Prince v. 
Thompson, 21 Tex. 481. An acknowledgment of servlce less than five days ~!\,re the term, docs not warrant a
judgment by default. Pearce v. Tally, S Tex. SOS. Where the <lam~cs are unllqul<late<l, a jury must all!W.'a
them. Cummings v. Butler, Dallam, 681. In a judgment by default, the facts set out in the petition are to be 
taken 11,11 proved. (W11tson v. Newsham, 17 Tex. 43'1; Guest v. Rhine, 16 Tex. MO; Willanl v. Conduit, JO Tex.
214j Swift v, Farle., 11 Tex. 19; Long v. Wortham, 4 Tex. 882; H11ll v, Jackson, 8 Tex. 3o5.) Ricks '"· Ptnson, 
21 Te«. ros; Trabue v. Stouum, 20 Tex. 4M. Al where the suit wn.'I on n note and mortgage, the judgment by
default admitted the execution of both, and the oourt correctly proceeded to render a rl11c.re,~ of fon'c1osure. with· 
out the intervention or a jurr Ricka , •. Pinson, 21 Tex. 508. And there Is no neccsslty for n writ o( inquiry .
Korrieon T. Van Bibber,~ Fex, Supp. IM. The general rule hrui been qualtfled. Id. Where the demand ta 
unllquidated, the jndgment admlts that s1>mething Is due, but dlspures the amount Id. But the allegation•
must oonatltute a legal bnsi11 on which to predicate the judgment, wttboui r,1,·r,·nc,· t» the pr,w,f" llnll v. -Inck­ 
son, 8 Tex. 810. The relief, on a judgment by detault, may go the, lcuut h or app,,lntln:.: u r,'c,·I\ er. ln a proper 
cue. Long v, Wortham, 4 Tex. Stl2. . Upon a judgment by default. the r-ourt n1r,y 111 nr pr<uf of the mt» ot 
foreign Interest, without the Intervention ofaJury. Willard v. Ooudult, IO Tl'X. :l14. It will 111,t ,urport a
decree for specific performance against an administrator, on a contract not btndinc «n the ,-~t:11<-. Torl.l v, Cnld­
well, 10 Tex, Ml. The clerk should find the actual amount duo upon tho Instrument, cr,·1li:l11!! nil Imlorscmenta
ofpaymenta. Holland v. Cook (10 Tex. 24.'i),approved. Ricks'"· Plnsou, 21 'I'ex. :")iJ~; Trnbue v. Stonum, 20
Tex. 4M · Harland v. Hendricks, 19 Tex. 2'J2. A j ndgment by default. 111,011 u Lionel. payuble to the governor of
TexlL8, which should have been payable to the state, ls erroneous, (Lawton v. The :-ii ate, ti Tex, 270.) Warren 
T. The State, 21 Tex. 510. Such a bond le void, and not the foundutiun of an net ion. Id. A mere variance as to
date, will not vitiate a judgment by default. Trabne v, Stonum, 20 Tex. 4M. But if there be a real mlsdescrtp­
tion, the court should not render the judgment, Id. As whore the pctltton onlv declared for legal Interest, and 
tbe note produced was for conventional Interest. Graves v. Farquhar, 20 Tex. 4M. The fl\ct thiit the defendant 
:bad anotlier suit pending in the court, contestin'- the plalntllf's action, la noanawer. Dowell v. Wlnten, 20 Tu. 
7K ApproYed, Tarrant County•· Lively, 26 'leL Supp. 403. Where the uuswer WM riled the Mn11• clay of the
Judgment, und no nonce taken of it., the presumption ts., that It was flied after the juclirment.. Wooldridge v. 
lh-own, 1 TeL 419. Acknowledgment of eervice waives no other riitht. Glenn v. Shelburne, 29 Tex. 126.
We have held that the court righUv ref'need to open a de6mlt, to let In 11 plea or the statute of llmitAtlonL 
(Foster v, Martin., 20 TeL Ha) Doweh v. Winters, 20 Tex. 79,. Orunlt>s!I the motion be supported by affidavit,
or other evidence of merit.a. Cook v. Phlllips, 18 Tex. 32. Not so wlwr,.i thc·rc ls a defense ol" m<>rlts, nn,I both 
party 11nd coun!!el l:,borod under a mistake 1\8 to the law and tlll.'re was no dclav In the trial. Dawt>II v. Winters, 
00 Tex. 797. A note, payable" in cash notes," ls not 11 liquldatod ('ause of ac·tlnn. which nnthorlzes 11n entrv by
the clerk, without the intervention of a jury. Wl\l"d v. Lanmer, 2 TL"x. 2-li. Where onlv I\ Jlllrt of tho defl'nclanta 
had been leitally served, and those not sernd did not pl('ad, the rt'cltntion, th:1t tlw ···clcf, ndnnts app,':lJ'Cd." Is
oonfint•d to those v.·ho were served. Thompson v. Grltlls.. 19 Tex. lli; Wiu·1t v. Lntlmer. 2 T,,x. 24!;. Since
this section, no judgment. nitri or Interlocutory, ls nt>co~ after tho fourth day of the term. Jackson v.
Man!b&ll, 6 Tex. 3211. And before this act, a judi:ment niai might be c·nt.>l"('d nunc J>ro time. at the time of tho
final judgment. Wartl Y. Ringo, 2 Tex. 420. Where the defencL'\nt flied nn answer, but ptrmlttl~l the plnintifl' 
to take Judgment by default, without calling attention to 1t durlnir the term, he cnnnot be hmU'(l to olijt'<'t. on
error. Hopkins v. Donaho, 4 Tex. 881: Pierson v. Burney, 16 Tex. 2i3. An nnswer may be ftlod flt nny time bt>foro
ftn11l judgment is asked; and it cannot be stricken out becm~e not flied before the explrntlon of five days. (Wheat
v. Davidson, 2 Tex. 196.) Ryburn v. Nall, 4 Tex. 806· Moore v. Jones, 6 Tex. 22S; Ellett v. Britton, Id. 230. The
judgment br, default can only be taken q1'M" the expiration of the fourth day of the term. Hollis v. 1''r:mcols, 1
Tex. 120; 0 Connor v. Towns, Id. 107. Where the eervloo 11 by publication, no judgment vf defl\ult need be 
entered before tho entry ot final judgment. Shepherd v. White, 11 Tex. 346. Where the ploo, flied at a pre,1ous
term, is oorrectly decided to be bad, and the plalntlfr does not ask leave to amend, the defendant ls ln default.
Hamilton v. Black, Dallam, 687, 188. , 
CONTINUANCE.
§ 1509. (815} r15] No application for continuance shall be heard 
before the defendant fi1es his defense, nor shall any continuance he allowed
unless ey operation of law, .or by consent of the1>arties, for sufficient cause,
supported by affidavit. On the first application for continuance, if the cause
of continuance be want of testimony material to the •case, the party applying
for the same shall make affidavit that he bas used due diligence •to procure
said testimony, stating such diligence. On the second application for con­
tinuance, if the cause of continuance be the want of testimony material to the
case, the Hame shall be shown, and that the party applying has used due
diligence to procure said testimony, and state such d'ihgence ; the cause of
failure, if known ; that the testimony cannot be obtained from any other
source ; and if it be for the absence of a. witness, he shall state the name and
residence of the witness, and what he expects to '{>rove by him; and that the
continuance is not sought for delay, but that justice may be done.* 
595. The affidavit !!hould not be so general ID Its term11 as to make tt impossible to have a conviction tor 
l)el'jury In ease ft be "1111fully ralllf!. Maya v. Lewi&, 4 Tex. 8a When • party hi\!! annonncerl himself ready for 
bial, it le., In general, too late to move for a oonUnuance. Cotton v. The State, 4 Tex. 260. If tho torms of the
statute be complied wtth on the first and second application., the court can exercise no discrtJtionary 1>0wt>r; ft must
be granted. Hipp v. Bi88611, 8 Tex. 18; Prewett v. Everett, 10 Tex. 283. But the court may look to the plt>adlnr:s,
and Bee If there 111 a "def~" wfileh would support the evldenoe sought. Fowler v. Buckner, 28 Tex. 85. The 
refusal of a oontlnnanoo may t>e uaigned for error. Hensley v. Lytle, 6 Tex. 497. Ir Improperly granted it
cannot be revised. Sweeney v. Jarvis, 6 Tex. 86. In the &st appllcatlon, the fact.a oonatltuting due dlµgetioe 
must be shown. Maya v. Lewis, 4 Tex. 1. The residence o< the witness should be 11tated on the first 
ap~llootlon. Wtlliam& v. Tnlbot, 27 Tex. 16T. The refusing 11 continuance will not be revised, unle,s th• 
ob ectlon bt> saved by exception. Ctunpion v. Angier. 16 Tex. 93; Harrison v. Cotton, WI Tex. M. Tho
rn o not enforced in Dangerfield v. Paschal, 20 Tex. l'>."\4.. The jnrlirt' may state f:\Cts in the bill or e:,;cq1· 
tion11 which would not otherwise appear. (Hall v. York, 16 T('i. 21.) Campion 'V. Angler, 16 1\·:1:. :1:i.
The ruling will not be reversed without a bill of e:-tl'eptlon11. Harrison v. Cotton. 25 Tex. M, 6'. Johns.,o 
G 
"· Brown, ~ Tex. Supp. 1!3. The affldn'l"tt must strictly follow the net, and atate that tho testimony can­
not be obtained from any other source. (;amplon v. Angler, ld Tex. 98. In tho .first application, I.bu affida­ 
vit should at.ate the names and resldenees of the witnCll8tl6.. and that he expected to procure their teallmony
by the next term or the court. Hunter v. Waite, 11 Tex. 86; Burdett v. Glasscock.. t:, T11x. Supp. 45. And 
abow due diligence. Wentworth v. Crawford, 11 Tex. 142; Green v. Crow 17 Tt1x. 182; Lewie v. WUHama, 16
T<'.X. 49. Or good excuse for not ualn,r It. Payne v. Cox, 13 Tex. 4Sl ; Wtillams v. Talbot. sr Tex. 167. And
the witness must be subpoenaad n reasonable tlmo. Parkllr v. Leman, 10 Tex. 117; Conner v. Sampson, 22 TeL
il. To depend upon the distance, &o., of the witne11&. IJ. The attorney may make tho affidavit when bla 
client la absent from the country. Robinson v. Martel, 11 Te:i. 168. But in such a case the putting a aubpama
In the bands of the aherltf Is not sufflch,nt. Id. ' 
The pleadln211 must show that tho evldenoo would be material. Titus v. Crittenden, 8 Tex. 139 • HardJ­
son v. Hooker,~ Tex. 98. To.support a legal defense. Clatbornu v. Yoeman, 10 Tex. 46-7. If terms' are im­ 
posed, such as the payment or eosts, for which execution may Issue, it ls not such a Judgment aa gives the au­
preme court jurisdiction: Barton v, Powers, 4 Tex. 880. Tho pnrty may reject tho terms and go to trial; and
If beaten move II new trial, and, on error, tho question of contlnnnnce can bu revtsed, ld. In the .ftrat appli­ 
cation for a contln uanee, the party need not at.ate the !acts which ho ex poets to prove by hla absent witness·
but ltbe choose to disclose them. the court mav uunuesnonablv take them Into conelderaUon. in determtnln; 
u to the propriety of granting the continuance. Williams v. Talb<.t, 27 Tex. 167. And 1! the record ahow
that no lnJu.&tiee was done, tho refusal wlll not be revised. Id. Where the suit waa upon a note, and an 
exception waa 1u1tained to the special plea, thia waa a sufltclent ground for ovcrrnllng the applleatton for a
continuance. Hardison v. Hooker, ~ Tex. 98. Whert> tho affidavit docs not show diligence, but II reasonable 
eseuee for not using it, it la addressed to the sound discretion or th« court; he should auperadd, that he
hA8 merits in his ease; and that the evidence can be procured within n reasonsble time. Bvne v. Jack.­
eon, 25 Tex. 97. The presumptions are In favor of tho propriety and correctness or the n.ctlon of the court
below. Fowler v. Buckncrl 2S Tex. 86. The contrary ahould be shown by bill or exception. Baker v. Kel· 
loetr. 16 Tex. 118. Thie rue la now llf!ttled. Harrison v. Ootton, ~ Tex. M. The overruling the third and
auccecdmg appUCQUona lbr a conUnnanoe, 11 not,.., a general rnle, tho subject of revision. Green v. Crow. 
17 Tex. 188. Unlees, perhape, there be llagrnnt lnjnstice. Hipp v..Hucbett, 4 Tex. 22. The alflda,lt should
apl'8ar to have been acted upon by the conrt. (Splllars v, Curry, 1'11" Tex. 143 • Prewett v. Everett, 1,1. 2b8.) 
Pennell v. Lovett, 16 Tex. 266. Where the witness resides In another county. it ls nut sufficient to hav .. tssued
aubpamu. Haker v. Kelloe11;. 16 Tex. 118. And if Interrogatories are relied upon, there must havo been 
dflJgenoe In sending them. Willlama v. 'l'albot, fl Tex. 167; Burdett v. Glasscock, 25 Tex. :,upi'. 45
The neooutty of the oont.t.nuanoe, ahould not be oceuloned by the fault of the dotendant or his oounaeL 
Aa that the lost papers were chargt•d to the attorney. Baker v, Johnaon, 16 Tex. 185. Or that he waited for de­
londant's answer before uain~ any dtltgenee, Osborne v. Scott. 18 Tex. 61. And lf forced to dlsmtss for wnnt of
dlll~en(l8' a refusal to reinstate will not be revised. (Esterling v. Blythe, 7Tox. 210.) Osborn, •. Scott.13 'Tex, 60. 
"That ho does not know that ho cnn Mtisfnctorlly establlsh the same !acts by other proof," is not snftlc! .. nt. Boatrlg-ht v. Ltnnm. 16 Tex. 24~. "Thut he was unable to procure tho testimony from uny other source," 1,. roqulslto.
Ohambers v. Jo'lak, 16 TeL 888. The refusal to allow an amendment of the affldnvlt, will not In gc11Pral b..: rs-vlscd.
Id. Tho general rule for oontlnunnce ls the 811Ille in criminal and civil cases. Hyde v. Tho State, 16Tex. 4a:t Tho 
common law authoritioa reviewed. Id. Counter affidavits will be received to destroy the force of the common
affidavit. Id. In a criminal ease, the court must be 811tlsllod that the wltnesses are materlal : that there hns Lt-c11 
no neglect; and that there is reasonable expectation that the evldenee can be procured. Id. An amendment,
which offered no new ground or defense, is no cause for a eontiuuance. Fisk v. Miller, 13 Tex. 227. An offer to
admit the proposed evidence, defeats the application. Id. 
§ 1510. (819) r19] Any party to a civil suit, believing himself aggrieved by any final judgment or decree of the district court, may appeal from 
such final judgment or decree to the supreme court, during the term of the
district court at which such final judgment or decree was rendered ; and 
notice of such appeal shall in all cases be entered of record. 
596. 'Where there baa been no aervtce orprocoaa, neither uotlee of nppeal, Blgntn~ a atntement o!t.scte, nor
motion to quash for want of aervtce, watvee the want or servtee, De Witt v. Monroe, 20 Tex. 298: McKinney v . 
.Jon1ia, 1 Tex, 699__; Toler"· Ayers, 1 Tox. 898. Notice or appeal le e11Sentlal to give jurisdiction to the supreme 
court. (Bnrr v • .Lewla, 8 Tex. 80; Lock.hart v. Lockhart, 1 Tex. 199.) Messner v. l..cwte., 11 Tex. 520. And
without it, the case will be dJemlssed, even wbdt'e thero le reaeon to presume notice. Bennett v. 8plllars, 7 Tex. 
801. 603. The neta or 1887 (vol. 2, p. N, le(I. 1) and of 1840 (vol. 4, p. 9'l, sec. 85), and Hamilton 'I". McKenzie
(Dallam, '61, 468), quoted and compared. Lock.hart v. Lockhart., l Tex. 200. The notice is required tn appeals 
by IMb.lnletratora. Id. An appeal doea not lie trom an Interlocutory judgment, as from a motion to quash an 11ttaeh­
menL Measner v. Lewis, 17 're:i. 620. Or a sequestration. Chc.ath:im v. Riddle. 8 Tex. 166. Or !(rnntin'1: n new
trial by original proceeding. Goss v. MeClaren, 17 T'ex. 107. Nol' di!!!Oh1ng an tnjuncUon. Ewing v. Kinnard,
i Tex. 16'. Nor to a refu!al to render a ftnaljudgment. Byers v. Janes, 2 Tex. MO. 
§ 1511, (821) [21 J Nothing contained in this act shall be so construed
as to affect any section of an act, entitled "An act to regulate proceedings in
the district courts," approved 13th May, A. D. 1846, that is not hereby re­
pealed. 
§ 1512. (822) [22] The seventh, eleventh, twelfth, fifteenth, seven­
teenth, twenty-third, twenty-fourth, twenty-sixth, twenty-seventh, fifty-first,
seventieth, seventy-fourth, seventy-fifth, ninety-fourth, one hundred and
thirty-fourth, and one hundred and forty-first sections of'' An act to regulate
proceedings in the district courts,'' approved 13th May, A. n. 1846, are hereby
repealed; and this act shall take effect from and after the first day of August
next. 
AN AOT FURTHER REGULA.TING PROCEEDINGS IN THE DISTRICT COURTS. 
AnT. 1513. [I] In any county where by law the term of the district court
is limited to one week, if the defendant in any case has been personally
served according to law (except in cases brought up from the courts of jus­
tices of the peace), and shall fail to answer before the fourth day of the term
of the court to which he hns been cited, the plaintiff on or after the fourth
day of the term, may have final judgment by default against the defendant.
If the cause of action be liquidated and established by an instrument in wri­ 
ting, the clerk may compute the sum due, or it may be found by a jury, if 
askecl for by either party. If the cause of action be W1liqnidated, a jury
shall be empaneled to find the sum which the plaintifff is entitled to recover. 
§ 1514. [2] Where suit is instituted against a partnership, service or
process upon one of the partners shall be sufficient nonce to all the members
of the firm, except that the judgment rendered in case of such service, shall
only be enforced against the partnership property, and the separate property 
of the partner who may have been served. 
59'7. Whether, after taking Judgment anlnst one of the partners. tho \llalntltf can mali:itatn nn nction
upon the note. o.s the joint contract or the firm, ls a questlon on which there ba8 seen some dlversitv of decision. 
But the great weight of authority seems to be ngnlnst a !It-Coll(}. recovery upon the contract, (Collyer 011 Part­
nershtp, book 8, ch. 6, 11, Sth edit. p. ess, n.; but sec 8 Kent'!! Com. 8th c1L p. 30, n.) Gnut v. Heed, 2-l Tex. M.
Where \he plaintifff' takes judgment upon the note against the partner who sizned it lndividun.lly, equity will not
a,ld to subject tho partner11hlp property to the payment or that jndgment, (Penny v. Martin, 4 J•,hns. Ch. 666;
'Willings v. Oonsegus, 1 Pot. C. C. 806; Robertson v. Smith, IS Jobns. 400: ::irnlth v. Black, 9 ::-ergt. ,It R. 144.}
111. 66. The dormant partners should be ascertulncd, and joined In the ori:.dn:il snit. Id, It ill a well settled
doctrine in equity, that every partnership debt Is joint and several ; and thereforee tbe creditor may, nt any time,
sue the survivor u such, and proceed rui:alnst the estate or the deceased partner. (Collyer on Part. 4th Am. 
from 2d Ellf[, edit. p, 6M, IIM, n.; 3 Kent. 63. 64 n.; 1 Story's Eq. 7ti.) Ill. Ir II plaintifff would proceed 11,irainat
the estate of a deceased partner, he must pursue the mo<le required by law for the settlement or the estate or
deceased pel'!lons. Id. M. The court will not take tho property out of the hands of the survivlng partner and 
executor, and place It In the hands of receivers, upon a qu<Uli cn·ditor's bill. Id. 46. 
§ 1515. p I] In civil suits, each party shall be entitled to challenge
three jurors, without showing any cause therefore. 
[ AN ACT AMENDING THE SEVERAL ACTS REGULATING PROCEEDINGS IN THE
DISTRICT COURTS. 
§ 1518. [1] All corporations acting under a charter granted bv the
legislature of this state, in all suits, whether as plaintifffs or defendants, \:hall
o_nly be r~quired to .Plead their acts of incorJ>?rRtion by reciting their respec­
tive cajt1ons, and in no case shall be required to set out the said act at, 
length. 
AGREED CASec. 
ABT. 1516. [12) After trial of any cause, when either party intends to
remove the same into the supreme court for revision, the parties may, with
the consent and approval of the judge who tried tho cause, and without the
necessity of copying the entire proceedings, agree upon such a statement of
the case, and the facts proven, if any, as in their opinion will be uecessarv to
show whether there has been any error in the proceedings ; and such statement shall be signed by the attorneys of the parties, and certified by the
judge, and filed as a part of the record of the cause ; and a copy of such
statement and of the judgment in the case, and the assignment of errors
certified by the clerks of the court, shall be a sufficient transcript of the
proceedings to be taken to the supreme court, and to entitle the parties to a
trial therein upon the points presented for revision. In all cases proposed
to be removed to the supreme court, where such agreed statement is not
made, approved, and filed, as in this section provided, the clerks shall make
out and send up the full transcript of the proceedings as is now provided by
law. 
§ 151'7. [13] No writ of error to remove a cause from the district to
the supreme court, shall in any case issue unless the plaintifff in error give
bond, with sufficient security for all the costs which may accrue in the supreme
court, and which may have accrued in the district court. 
598. No bond having been given as here required, tho writ was ohtalned contrary to law, and rnnst conse­
quently bo dlsmlseed, Waterhouse v. Love, 23 Tex. ll60. Where the ruatter In controversv ut1 ... cted the admin­ 
iiltratrhc personally, she ls requJred to give bond, 111 well as other sultors, (Battle v. Howard, 18 Tex. 345.)
Peabody v. Marks, 96 Tex. 22.. This section quoted and compared with tlw tlbtrict n,11rt a,·-. '1"11t'y 111t"1111, thnt 
file hla petlt.lon for a writ of error, and bond for costs within om, year trom th,· rl'n·litl11n or
judgment. Bnt the petition and bond need not be flied simultaneously. Id. Thi~ article does not apply to 
admlnlatratora. Tucker v. Andel'IIOD, ~ Tex. Supp, 169. There must In all case11 he n bond. for costs ut l,•Mt,
without exceptton, Preatigo v. Presttge, :lo Tex. 686. (DaughertJ' "· Cartwright, 81 Tex. 28'; Ban "· Mfilat 
Tex. 817; Grier,., The State, SO Tex. .SS,] 
CORPORATIONS. 
DISTRICTS AND TERMS. 
599. The Editor had prepared a chapt(>r giving the dletrlcu, and time& of holding eourts &om the foun­
dation ot the republic down to the present day. But the changes have been so frequent, that It! yery 
Tolnmfnousnesa would obscure, rather than enlighten, the best thinking lawyers. Thero ls nothtnir to the 
legl11latlon or Texns, which shows the restlessness or eelftsbness of men so well as those constant chan1a;,·s of
the ~B or courts, to accommodnto or Injure particular lawyers, There I!< not an ad on r hi- snl ;c,ct in
Tiart1cy's Dl~es~, which is not supplied In Ol lba;n, &. \\' hite·~ by new ensctments ; 111.tl In this boo( th('rO 
ls not one which 111 to be found In Oldham ,1; \\ hit« s t>l ,,·~r. .-\II nre nvw : :11 ,! so, :1;min, all will !"<><JD he
totally r.h,111gro<1. It hns tn,'rdnre h,,,.n tli<Jll;:ht ·11011.:h to ::iy,• the tlm,·~. 11, at pr,,ent J•r<'~<'ril,.,,J, wi thout 
even tbu oapnoua, as tl,,·ru cnn bo "" 'l'll"s<Unu (•f 1;u11~ll:111io11:illty, 1u1,I 11m•_·,,.i[11,,r:t~ urc J.l'OC"r;;!ly •JrJ;rimil 
11eta. When the ~l"w government collapsed, by the cni5hln:r or the rebellion. and P:~~slonnl Oovrrnor
AxDKBW J. llAllllLTOY sppotnted district jn<lgc11, there was dl~nl!r.-1 111< 11!. uuwni: thorn. n~ to whether the 
changes made after secession should be followed, Tl.Jc .:ovl'rnor, to soh·i' the c]uul,te;, ly J•ru<'iamatlon. in ~,·p­ 
ternber, 1:'.tJ.'>, directed the times as provtously presertl.cd 111 the t'ol11,wln~ :11 tl1·k·M. Iu nil the acts of dJ.1n:.:e
will be found the following sectton :-" All wrtts and prco<'t·,~ that hav,· l,w, n. or 11111_1' h,·r,.:ilh·r t,.- lssuod
from any of the district courts or the counties mcuttouvd lu this act. &n•l uuule returnuhl« to any of the
terms or said courts under the laws now In force, and nil bonds 11111! r1·co;.'.lll.llliw1 s that hnve l,""n. or may
hereafter be made returnable to suld courts, shall be returned to tho terms ~Jl(·clrlecl in thls net, and shall
have tho same force and cm·ot aa if the same had been made l!O originally returnable." It baa nut bcon 
deemed neoeaeary to repeat It In every CAM3. 
§ 1519. [2] FffiST DISTRICT.-In the county of Brazoria, on the
:first Monday in April and October, and may continue in session two weeks;
in the county of Matagorda, on the second Monday after the first :Monday in
April and October, and may continue in session one week; in the county of
Wharton, on the third Monday after the first Monday in April and October,
and may continue in session one week; in the county of Colorado, on the
fourth Monday after the first Monday in April and October, aud may con­
tinue in session two weeks; in the county of Fayette, on the sixth Monday
after the first Monday in April and October, and may continue in session
three weeks ; in the county of Austin, on the ninth l\lon<lay after the first
Monday in April and October, and may continue in session two weeks; in
the county of Fort Bend, on the eleventh Monday after the first )Iondny in
April, and on the first Monday in January, and may continue in session until 
the business is disiosed of.
Alrr. 1520. [I SECOND DISTRICT.-ln the county of Bastrop, on the 
first Monday in arch and September, and may continue in session three
weeks; in the county of Caldwell, on the third Monday after the first Mon­
day in March and September, and may continue in session two weeks; in the
county of Guadalupe, on the fifth Monday after the first Monday in March
and September, and may continue in session three weeks; in the county of
Hays, on the eighth Monday after the first Monday in March and September,
and may continue in session two weeks; in the county of Travis, on the
tenth Monday after the first Monday in March and September, and may con­
tinue in session until the business is disposed of. 
AnT. 1521. [2] THIRD DISTRICT.-In the county of )Vashin~on1 on
the first l\Ionday after the fourth Monday in l\Iarch aud September, m each
year, and may continue in session four weeks; in the county of Brazos, on
the fifth Monday after the fourth Monday in March and September, in each
year, and may continue in session one week; in the county of Burleson, "On
the sixth Monday after the fourth Monday in March and September, in each
year, and may continue in session two weeks; in the county of Milam, on 
the eighth Monday after the fourth l\Ionday in March and September, and
may continue in session two weeks. 
§ 1522. r11 FOURTH DISTRICT.-In the county of Bexar, on the
first Monday ol llarch and September, and mny_continuc in session seven
weeks; in the county of Comal, on the eighth Monday after the first Mon­ 
day of March and September, and may continue in session one week; in the
county of Blanco, on the ninth Monday after the first Monday of March and
September, and may continue in session one week ; in the county of Gillespie,
on the tenth Monday after· the first l\Ionuay of :March and Soptenibcr, and
may continue in session two weeks; in the county of Kerr, on the twelfth
Monday after the first Monday of March and September, and may continue
in session one week; in the county of' Kendall, on the thirteenth Monday
after the first Monday of March and September, and continue in session until 
the business of the term is disposed of: 
ABT. 1523. [1] FIFTH DISTIUCT.-In the county of N ewton, on the
fourth Monday in February and .Augm-t, in each year, and may continue in
session one week; in the county of J :u~per, on the first Monday after the
fourth Monday in February and August, in each year, and may continue in
session two weeks; in the county of Sabine, on the third Monday after the
fourth Monday in February and August, in each year, and may continue in 
session one week; in the county of §belby, on the fourth Monday afte, the
fourth Monday in February and Au~ust, in each year, and may continue in
session two weeks; in the county of San Augustine, on the sixth Monday
after the fourth Monday in February and August, in each year, and may con­
tinue in session two weeks; in the county of Angelina, on the eiuhth Monday
after the fourth Monday in February and August, in each year, and may
continue in session two weeks; in the county of N scogdoches, on the first 
Monday in January and July~ in each year, and may continue in session until
the business shall be disposed of. . 
§ 1524. (1] SIXTH DISTRICT.-lu the county of Rusk, on the
second Monday of February and August, and may continue in session five
weeks; in the county of Harrison, on the fifth Monday after the second :Mon­
day in February and Auga.st, and may continue in session six weeks ; in the
county of Upshur, on the eleventh Monday after the second Monday in Feb­
ruary_ and August, and may continue in session three weeks; in the county
of Wood, on the fourteenth Monday after the second Monday in February
and August, and may continue in session two weeks; in the county of
Panola, on the sixteenth Monday after the second Monday in February and
August, and may continue in session until the business is disposed of 
§ 1525. Tll SEVENTH DISTRICT.-ln Walker county, on the
third Monday of March and October, and may continue for two weeks; in
Grimes county, on the second Monday after the third Monday of March and
October, and may continue for two weeks ; in Montgomery county, on the
fourth Monday aft-er the third Monday of March and October, and may con­
tinue for two weeks; in Harris county, on the sixth Monday after the third
Monday of March and October, and may continue for five weeks; in Galves­
ton county, on the eleventh Monday after the third Monday of March and
October, and may continue until the business is disposed of. 
§ 1526. [I l EIGHTH DISTRICT.-ln the county of Cass, on the
second Monday ai\er the first l\Ionday jn February and August, and may con­
tinue in session two weeks ; in the county of Bowie, on the fourth Monday
after the first Monday in February and August, and may continue in session
two weeks; in the county of Red River, on the sixth Monday after the first
Monday in February and August, and may continue in session three weeks ;
in the county of Lamar, on the ninth Monday after the first Monday in Feb­
ruary and August, and may continue in session two weeks ; in the county
of Hopkins, on the eleventh Monday after the first Monday in February and
August, and may continue in session two weeks; in the county of Titu.s, on
the thirteenth Monday after the first Monday in Fe~uary and August, and
may continue in session two weeks; in the county of Marion, on the fifteenth
Monday after the first Monday in February and August, and may continue
in session until the business is disposed of. 
ABT. 1527. [11 NINTH DISTRICT.-The district court of Houston
county, shall be held on the third Monday in February and August, and
may continue in session three weeks. The district court of Cherokee county,
shall be held on the third Monday after the third Monday in February and
August, and may continue in session five weeks. The district court of
Anderson county, shall be held on the eighth Monday after the third Mon­
day in February and August, and may continue in session four weeks. The
district court of Henderson county, shall be held on the twelfth Monday after
the third Monday in February and August, and may continue in session
three weeks. The district court of Smith county, shall be held on the third
Monday of January and July, and may continue in session to, and including,
Thursday of the week preceding the day fixed for the time of holding courts
in Houston countr. 
§ 1528. flJ TENTH DISTRICT.-ln the county of Victoria, on
the third Monaay in February and August, in each year, and may con­
tinue in session two weeks ; in the county of Jackson, on the second
Monday after the third Monday in February and August, and may con­
tinue in session one week; in the county of Lavaca, on the third Mon­
day after the third Monday in February and August, and may continue
in session two weeks; in the county of De Witt, on the fifth Monday
after the third Monday in February and August, and may continue in
session two weeks ; in the county of Gonzales, on the seventh Monday
after the third Monday in February and August, and may continue in 
session three weeks ; in the county of Calhoun, on the eleventh Monday
after• the third Monday in February, and the thirteenth Monday after the
third Monday in August, in each year, and may continue in session two
weeks: Provided, that in case of epidemic, or other cause deemed sufficient,
the district court for Calhoun county may be adjourned to a special term;
but said special term shall in no case conflict with a regular term of the dis· 
trict court for any county in the tenth judicial district. 
§ 1529. [I l ELEVENTH DISTRICT.--Shall commence in the county
of El Paso, on tlie first Monday in March and September, in each year, and 
may continue in session unttl the business is disposed of.
§ 1530. f 1] Shall commence in the county of El Paso, on the first 
Monday in April, for the year eighteen hundred and fifty-eight, and may con­
tinue in session until the business is disposed of; and that the succeeding
terms of said court shall hereafter be holden at such time as is now pre­
scribed by law. 
§ 1531. fl] TWELFTH DISTRICT.-In the county of Cameron, on
the fourth Mon<lay in April, and the second Monday in November, and may
continue in session four weeks; in the county of Hidalgo, on the fourth
Monday after the fourth Monday in April, and the fourth Monday after the 
second Monday in N ovember, and may continue in session one week; in the
county of Starr, on the fifth Monday after the fourth Monday in April, and 
the fifth Monday after the second Monday in November, and may continue 
in session two weeks ; in the county of Zapata, on the seventh Monday after
the fourth Monday in April, and the seventh Monday after the second Mon­
day in November, and may continue in session one week; in the county of
Webb, on the eighth Monday after the fourth Monday in April, and the
eighth Monday after the second Monday in November, and may continue in
session one week. 
§ 1532. [21 THIRTEENTH DISTRICT.-ln the county of Madi­
son, on the first 1londay in March and September, and may continue in ses­
sion one week; in the county of Robertson, on the first Monday after the
first Monday in March and September, and may continue in session two
weeks ; in the county of Falls, on the third Monday after the first Monday
in. March and September, and may continue in session two weeks; in the 
ooun~ of Limestone, on the fifth Monday after the first Monday in March
and September, and may continue in session one week ; in the county of
Hill, on the sixth Monday after the first Monday in March and September,
arid may continue in session one week; in the county of Navarro, on the
seventh Monday after tie first Monday in March and September, and may
continue in session two weeks; in the county of Freestone, on the ninth
Monday after the first M6nday in March and September, and may continue in
session one week; in the county of Leon, on the tenth Monday after the first 
Monday in March and September, and may continue in session two weeks.
AB'r. 1533. [I l FOURTEENTH DISTRICT.-In the county of San 
Patricio, on the itrst Monday in April and October, and may continue in
session one week; in the county of Live Oak, on the first Monday after the 
first Monday in April and October, and may continue in session one week ;
in the county of Karnes, on the second Monday after the first Monday in
April and October, and may continue in session two weeks; in the county of 
Goliad, on the fourth Monday after the first Monday in April and October,
and may continue in session two weeks; in the county of Refugio, on the
sixth Monday after the first Monday in April and October, and may continue
in session two weeks; in the county of Bee, on the eighth Monday after the
first Monday in April and October, and may continue in session one week ;
in the county of Nueces, on the ninth Monday after the first Monday in
April and October, and may continue in session until the business is dis­ 
posed 0£
ABT. 1534. [2] FIFTEENTH DISTRICT.-ln Chambers county, on the 
second Monday in March and September, and may continue in session one
week; in Liberty county, on the third Monday in March and September, and
may continue in session two weeks; in Polk county, on the second Monday
after the third Monday in March and September, and may continue in session
two weeks; in Trinity county, on the fourth Monday after the third Monday
in March and September, and may continue in session two weeks; in Tyler 
county, on the sixth Monda1 after the third Mondat in March and Septem­
ber, and may continue in session two weeks; in Hardin county, on the e1~th
Mondaf aft.er the third Monday in March and September, and may contmue
in session one week; in Jefferson county, on the ninth Monday after the 
third Monday in March and September, and may continue in session one
week; in Orange county, on the tenth Monday after the third Monday in
March and September, and may continue in session until the business ia 
disposed 0£ 
Aet
1~7; 
from
Vol.16, 
Act
l~: 
from
Vol 
Act
1860; 
from
Vol. 
p. 
§ 1535. [2] SIXTEENTH DISTRICT.-In the county of Ellis, on
the first Monday in March and September, in each year, and m:iy continue in
session three weeks; in the county of Johnsob, on the fourth Monday in
March and September, and may continue in session two weeks; in the
county of Parker, on the second Monday after the fourth Monday in March
and September, and may continue in session three weeks; in the county of
Tarrant, on the fifth Monday after the fourth Monrlay in March and Septem­
ber, and may continue in session three weeks; in the county of Dallas, on the
eighth Monday after the fourth Monday in March and September, and may
continue in session three weeks; in the county of Kaufman, on the eleventh
Monday after the fourth Monday in March and September, and may continue
in session two weeks; in the county of Van Zandt, on the thirteenth Mon­
day after the fourth Monday in March and September, and may continue in
session until the business is disposed of. 
Arr. 1536. [I l SEVENTEENTH DISTRICT.-ln the county of Burnet; 
on the first Monaay in March and September, and may continue in session
one week; in the county of Llano, on the first Monday after the first Monday 
in March and September, and may continue in session one week; in the
county of Mason, on the second Monday after the first Monday in March and
September, and may continue in session one week; in the county of Menard,
on the third Monday after the first Monday in March and September, And 
may continue in session one week; in the county of McCulloch, on the fourth
Monday after the first Monday in March and September, and may continue
in session one week; in the county of San Saba, on the fifth Monday after
the first Monday in March and September, and may continue in session one
week; in the county of Brown, on the sixth Monday after the first :Monday
in March and September, and may continue in session one week; in the
county of Lampasas, on the seventh Monday after the first Monday in March
and September, and may continue in session one week; in the county of
Williamson, on the eighth Monday after the first Monday in March and Sep­
tember, and ma_y continue in session until the business is disposed of. 
ART.1587. LI] EIGHTEENTHD!STRICT.-fti the county of Atascosa,
on the first Monday of April and October, and may continue in session three
weeks; in the county of Bandera, on the third Monday after the first Mon­
day of Afril and October, and may continue in session one week; in the
county o Uvalde, on the fourth Monday after the first Monday of April
and October, and may continue in session two weeks; in the county of
Medina, on the sixth Monday after the first Monday of April and October,
and may continue in session three weeks; in the county of Wilson, on the
ninth Monday after the first Monday of April and October, and may continue
in session two weeks; in the county of Kinney, on the tenth Monday after
the first Monday of April and October, and may continue in session one
week; in the county of Maverick, on the eleventh Monday after the first
Monday of April and October, and may continue in session one week. 
§ 1538. [IJ NINETEENTH DISTRICT.-In the county of Bell, on
the first Monday m March and September in each year, and may continue in
session two weeks; in the county of Coryell, on the third Monday after the
first Monday in March and September, and may continue in session one week;
in the county of Hamilton, on the fourth Monday after the first Monday in
March and September, and may continue in session one week; in the county
of Comanche, on the fifth Monday after the first Mol\(}ay in March and Sep­
tember, and may continue in session one week; in the county of Palo Pinto,
on the sixth Monday after the first Monday in March and September, and
may continue in session one week; in the county of Erath, on the seventh
Monday after the first Monday in March and September, and may continue 
in session one week; in the county of Bosque, on the eighth Monday after
the first Monday in March and September, and may continue in session one
week ; in the county of McLennan, on the ninth Monday after the first Mon­
day in March and September, and may continue in session until the business
is disposed 0£ 
AnT. 1539. [1 J TWENTIETH DISTRICT.-In the county of Collin, on
the first Monday in February and August, and may continue in session three
weeks ; in the county of Denton, on the third Monday after the first Monday 
in February and August, and may continue in session two weeks; in the
county of Wise, on the fifth Monday after the first Monday in February and 
August, and tnay continue in session one week; in the county of Jack, on the
sixth )Ion.Jay after the first Monday in February and .August, and may con­ 
tinue in session one week; in the county of Young, on the seventh Monday
after the first )louday in February and August. and may continue in session 
one week; in the county of Throckmorton, on the eighth .Monday after the
first Monday in February and August, and may continue in session one 
week; in the county of Archer, on the ninth Monday after the first Monday
in February and August, and may continue in session one week; in the 
county of Clay, on the eleventh l\lunday after the first l\lortday in February
and August, and may continue in session one week ; in the county of Mon­ 
tague, on the twelfth )londay after the first ::\Ionday in February and August,
and may continue in session one week; in the county of Cooke, on the thir­ 
teenth Monday after the first Monday in February and August, and may
continue in session two weeks; in the county of Grayson, on the fifteenth
Monday after the first lfonday in February and August, and may continue in
session three weeks . 
.ART. 1540. [2] That the counties of Hunt and Fannin shall be attached
to and become a part of the twentieth judicial district, and the courts in said
counties shall be held twice in each year, as follows :-In the county of Hunt, 
on the last Monday in January and .July, and may continue in session one
week ; in the county of Fannin, on the eighteenth Monday after the first 
Monday in February and August, and may continue in session two weeks. 
J"OIST RESOL'GTION AUTHORIZlNG PLAINTIFFS OR DEFENDA~"'TS, OR THEIR 
AGENTS, TO FILE IN THE SUPREME COURT BmEFs OF THEIR CASES, WHICH
SHALL BE TA.KE:'i AS AN APPEARANCE, 
-6.\RT. 1541. (2910) [t] Hereafter, when any cause or suit may be taken ur. 
, } b 
from any inferior court to the supreme court of this state, w iether y appea , 
writ of error, or otherwise, it shall and may be lawful for the attorney or
attorneys, both for plaiutiffs and defendants, to file in the papers of said suit or
cause, his or their written brief or argument; and the judges of the supreme
court shall be required to notice the same as much as if it were the personal
appearanee of such attorney or attorneys, and shall not dismiss any suit or
cause, where such brief or argument of counsel is filed with the papers, for
want of other or further prosecution. 
600. This resolutton bAs rer .. renee to altomeys or the mpreme court. The brieta or no others will be 
noticed. Thorn v, uwson, 6 Tex. 240. 
AN ACT TO ORGANIZE THE SUPREllE COURT OF THE STA.TE OF TEXAS. 
§ 1542. (2911) rt] The supreme court of the state of Texas shall con­
sist of a chief justice ancl two associates, any two of whom shall form a quorum. 
[ AN A.CT TO A.llEND THE FIRST SECTION OF AN ACT ENTITLED "A.NA.CT TO A.MEND 
THE SECOND AND SEVENTH SECTIONS OF AN A.CT ENTITLED AN ACT TO
ORGANIZE THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE .OF TEXAS, .APPROVED THE 
12TH OF MAY, 1846." .APPROVED NOVEMBER 30TH, 1850.
§ 1543. [l] The first section of an act entitled "An act to amend 
d d h
. f . 1 · h 
the secon an sevent sections o an act entit ed an act to orgamze t e
supreme court of the State of Texas, approved 12th May, 1846,'' and approved 
b
h
· h 1 b f 
N ovem er 80t , 1850, rs ereby amended so that the same sha 1 erea ter 
read as follows to wit·- 
etourts, i,uprt1ne. 
TERMS. 
' ' , • 
That the supreme court shall hold its sessions once in every year, at the 
city of Austin, in the county of Travis; once in every year at the citv of
Galveston, in the connty of Galveston; and once in every year at the town 
of Tyler, in the county of Smith. That the causes decided in the district
courts of the second, third, fourth, eleventh, thirteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth, 
and eighteenth judicial districts, and the counties of Gonzales and Lavaca, in
the tenth district, when taken up by appeal or otherwise, shall be returnable 
to the supreme court, sitting at the city of Austin. That the causes decided 
in the district courts of the first, seventh, twelfth, fourteenth, fifteenth, and
tenth judicial districts, with the exception of the counties of Gonzales and
Lavaca, shall be returnable to the supreme court, holding its session at the
city of Galveston. That the causes decided in the district courts of the fifth, 
sixth, eighth, and ninth judicial districts, shall be returnable to the supreme
court, holding its session at the town of Tyler in the county of Smith: Pro­ 
vided, that the parties or their attorneys may, on filing an agreement for that
purpose with the clerk of any district court m either of the judicial districts,
direct the records, accompanied by a certified copy of the ~eement, to be
transmitted to the supreme court holding its sessions either in the city of
Austin, the city of Galveston, or at the town of Tyler.] 
801. The IW'CODd seetton had been supplied by the act or the 30th November, t~. prescribing the timm 
and places, to conform to the dlvl11lon of the court Into three branches. And that amendment wu Rgl\in sup­
plied by the net or the 18th February, 18.'>i, which was l~elf superseded bv the above amendmento-s-En, AJur 
this last amendment, land causes, In which the 11tnte Is a pnrty, could not be returned to the term at An11tin, u 
provided ln the law of the 80tb November, lt\00. Tho State v. Andrew&, 20 Tex. 2.81. The act of 30th Novem· 
ber, 1850, required the land eausee, In which the state Is a party, to be returned to Auatin; but t!iat wu repealed
b7 the amendmenta which supply the whole section. lei. 280. 
[AN• .ACT TO CREATE THE SIXTEENTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT, A.ND DEFINE TIIB 
TIMES OF HOLDING COURTS THEREIN.
ABT. 1544. (3] All cases of appeals from the decisions of the district 
courts in this [sixteenth] district, shall be to the branch of the supreme court 
at the city of Austin.] · 
[ AN ACT TO AMEND THE SECOND SECTION OF AN ACT ENTITLED "AN A.CT TO 
AMEND THE SECOND SECTION OF AN ACT ENTITLED AN ACT TO • ~ 
THE SECOND AND SEVENTH SECTIONS OF AN ACT ENTITLED AN ACT TO 
ORGANIZE THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS, APPROVED
NOVEMBEB 30TH, 1850." APPROVED FEBRUARY 13TB, 1854. 
§ 1545. [l] So much of the second section of the above entitled act,
approved February 13th, 1854, as requires the causes decided in the county
of Lavaca, in the tenth judicial district, when taken up by appeal or other·
wise to the supreme court, shall be returnable to the supreme court holding
its session at the city of Austin, be amended so as to read ns follows:- 
ABT. 1546. [2] The causes decided in the district court for the county of 
Lavaca, of the tenth judicial district, when taken up by appeal or otherwise
to the supreme court, shall be returnable to the supreme court holding ita 
session at the city of Galveston. ·
ABT. 1547. [31- All laws and parts of laws conflicting with this act be, 
and the same are 'hereby repealed. J 
[ .AN ACT TO CREA.TE THE NINETEENTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF 
TEXAS, TO REGULATE THE BOLDING OF TERMS OF THE DISTRICT COURT
IN SAID DISTRICT, AND PROVIDING FOB THE ELECTION OF DISTRICT Jl;DGB
AND DISTRICT ATl'ORNEY IN SAID DISTRICT, .AND FOB TRIAL OF CERTAIN
CA USES IN SAID DISTRICT. 
ABT. llS48. [7] And all appeals from the district courts of the nineteenth
district, shall be to the Austin term of the supreme court. 
[8] That this act take effect from and after its passage; and all laws and
parts of laws in conflict herewith be, and the same are hereby repealed.] 
AN ACT SUPPLEMENTARY TO AN ACT ENTITLED " AN .ACT TO AMEND THE
SECOND A.ND SEVENTH SECTIONS OF .AN ACT ENTITLED AN ACT TO 
OBQ-A.NIZE TJIE SUPBE!lE COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS." APPROVED 
HAY 12TH, 1846. 
ABT. 1549. [1] If any cases argued or submitted to the supreme court of
this state, during a term holden at one of the places defined by the act to
which this is a supplement, shall be left undecided at the close of said term,
it shall be, and is hereby made competent for said court, to decide such case
whilst sitting at either of the other two places, and when such decision shall
be made, the court shall cause their judgment and opinion to be transmitted 
to the clerk of said court, at the place where the cause was submitted, to be
by him entered of record, as in other cases, l 
..i:un.c...i.~u 
§ 1550. [I] The term of the supreme court now in session in the city of Austin, be
and the same is hereby extended until the end of the third week in January,~ D. 1866, 
and the said court may continue in session until that time, unless the business shall be sooner
disposed of. 
§ 1651. (21 The uext term of said supreme court at Galveston, shall commence on the
first Monday in '.tehruary, eighteen hundred and fifty-six, and may continue in session ten 
weeks, unless the business shall be sooner -disposed of; but this act shall only apply to the
next term of said court, and all the future terms of said court at Galveston, shall commence
and be holden under the laws now in force fixiDg the commencement nnd duration of the terms
of said court. • 
§ 1552. (3] The next term of the supreme court at Tyler shall commence on the fourth
Monday in April, 185n, and may continue in session until the expiration of the time now fixed 
by law for the duration of the terms of said court, but this act shall apply only to the next
term of said court at Tyler; and all future terms thereof shall commence and be held under the
laws now in force regulating the same. 
§ 1553. r4] All appeals and writs of error, and other writs, returnable to either the
Galveston or Ty)er branches of said supreme court, shall be returnable to the terms as estab­ 
lished by this act.] 
[AN ACT FURTHER REGULATING PROCEEDINGS IN THE SUPREME COURT. 
§ 1554. fl] The causes determined in the district court of the counties
composing the ttli::d judicial district, when taken to the supreme court of the
state, by appeal or otherwise, shall be returnable to the branch of said court
at Galveston, and the causes from the courts of said third judicial district,
pending in the supreme court at Austin, and undecided at. the close of the
term of said court which commenced on the third Monday of October, A. D. 
l 8b9, shall be transferred, for decision, to Galveston: Provided, that the
cases so transferred, shall not take precedence of those now on the docket
of the court at Galveston.] 
[AN ACT TO AUTHORIZE THE SUPREME COURT OF THE ST.ATE TO HOLD rrs 
SESSIOXS DURING THE PRESENT W .AB, AT SOME OTHER PLACE THAN THE
CITY 01, GALVESTOX. 
§ 1555. [I l During the existence of the prese».t war, the sessions of the supreme court
of the state, for tlie Galveston district, may be held at such other safe and convenient place
within said district, as tho judges thereof may select and designate. 
§ 1556. [2] It shall be the duty or the cliief ju!-'tice or presiding judge of said court to
publish a notice, in at least two newspapers of goneral circulation within said district, for three
consecutive weeks, designating the place selected for holding the session of said court. 
§ 1557. [3] The judge:'! of ~id court are hereby authorized to have the records and
library appertaining to tho supreme court of said Galveston district, removed from the city of 
Galveston to such place as may be selected by them for holding the sesaion of said court.] 
802. Under this section and the next, the term for 1862, waa held at Houston, and t.be subsequent terma. 
until the clOIIC or the "'ar, at A.u11ll11, 
[ .. \N ~\CT TO AUTHORIZE THE SUPBEl\lE COURT OJI' THE STATE, FOR THE GAL­
VESTON DISTRICT, TO HOLD ITS SPRING TERM AT THE CITY OF .AUSTIN. 
§ 1568. [l] The supreme court of the state, for the Galveston district, is hereby author­
ized to hold its spring term, for the year 1863, at the city of Austin. 
§ 1559. [2] The judges of said court are hereby authorized to have the records and
papers appertaining to the supreme court of said Galveston district removed to the city of Aus­
tin, to be kept separate and apart from the records and papers of the Austin district, and to be 
returned to the Galveston district upon the adjournment of said court.] 
803. Under thia section, the January term, 1868, waa held at Austin. 
[AB A<H TO AUTHORIZE THE SUPREKE COURT OF THE STATE, FOR THE GA.Ir
VESTON DISTRICT, TO HOLD ITS SPRING TERK .AT THE CITY OB' AUSTIN, 
OB .ELSEWHERE. 
§ 1560. [l] The supreme court of the state for the Galveston district, is hereby authorised to hold its spring term for the year 1864, and annually thereafter, at the city of Austin, or
at such other place as the supreme court may determine, until the city of Galveston is permanently relieved of the presence of the public enemy. 
§ 1661. [2] The judges of said court are hereby authorized to have the records and papers
appertaining to the supreme court of said Galveston district, removed to the city of Austin,
to bo kept separate and apart from the records and papers of the A us tin district, and to be re- 
turned to the Galveston district, as soon as the same may be safely done.J 
§ 15G2. (2913) f3l The supreme court shall have appellate jurisdic­
tion over all manner of' pleas, plaints, motions, causes, and controversies, both
civil and criminal, which may be brought before it, from the district or any
other courts of the state, and which shall be cognizable in the said supreme
court, according to the laws and constitution of the state ; and when the
judgment, or decree of the court below, in civil cases, shall be reversed, the
supreme court shall proceed to render such judgment or decree as the court
below should have rendered, or pronounced, except when it be necessary
that some matter of met be ascertnined, or the damages to be assessed or the
mutter to be decreed is uncertain, in either of which cases the cause or prosecu­
tion, as the case may be, shall be remanded, for a more definite decision. 
804. Under a etmflar cla1111e or the eonstltutton or the republic the eonrt refused to ent<>rtaln orfgfnal jurl5dlctlon of a. quo 'Ul<U"1'ank,. .& parte Th- Bland. Dallam, 406.. The supreme court reVC'rl'<.'<111 [udgment upon a 
ball bond. and because the bond was void, quashed It. Barrln2n v. The t-tntC', 27 'Tex. M>t. And where
there was no final jtulgm{·nt before the justtce, tho suprern« court reversed the ju,lgmt·nt In a certiorari 
cause, and dlsmtssed, Darby v. Davidson, Gnlvv-tun-c-Austl n T. 27 'l'r-x. 4!3:?. And where an equitable
case hod been submit ted tu the court, upon tbe quesrlon of mutual nrlstuke. reversed and rendered Judg· 
mcnt accordtna to the equity of the ense, Hurrell v, ll..- Normun.ll.-. Austln T. 26 Tex. 126; Sims v. Red·
dtne, 20 Tex. 3SS; Tanl v. Hrailfor,1, II'!. 26-1-C;",. And where there Is i-noug h In the record to show what
thejudcment OUJ!ht to be, the court will n-verse nml revise, (\lcNairy v, l'a!!tlebt•rrv, 6 Tex. 2::.6; ,Jewett
v. 'I'hompson, 8 'l'ex. 437.) Mnthews v, Hnnoock, '.W TL·X. 7: .Iohnson v. McKissack. ld. 161. Where the
qnestton submttted to the court waa the liahillty or the employer, for the value of 11 hired negro best to
death by the overseer, tho court reversed. nnd upon tht• f:l<'tS rendered judgment for the pl11lntiff. Echols
v. Dodd, 20 Tex. 190-91. Tho court reversr-d . nnd nwar<lc,l n c,·rtlfkate of «lectton to the contestant, 
where It was believed there wns fraud. McKinney v, O"C11r111t r. Aui;tin T. 26 Tex. 23. The court dis­
solved an Injunctlon, whore the court below ought to have dissolved It. Smith v. Power, 2 Tes. 70, 7B..
And corrected judgments where too 11111ch interest h.id IH!f·D ~n'n. Or:tvel!I v, Farquhar, 20 Tex.~; Towulhend 
v. Smith. Id, 471; Taylor v. Coleman J,J, 'i19; Franklin v. Mo,,nry. 2T,·x. 4M: Chevallier v, Buford. 1 Tex. IW>T.
And at the oost or the plnln.tltf in "rror, where the mistake was only soventoen dollars, and this wa11 the only
err .. r. It is ns much UlC' duty of the dcfcn-lant as plain.tiff. to see tl1:1t the clerk makes no mistako In calcnlatlng 
the lnterost, Hoffman v. Bowen. 17 T<·X. 1'>1•7. The ,J.,f,•n,lant In <•r,or h.ul otl',·r,·rl to remit, and no cxeeutlon
ha,l is,;n,·cl. Id. But where the tnistake was larirt·. In pr11portlon to th,· ,lt•J.t, th .. judement was by tl,·fault, and 
execution Issne.l h.:fnre the writ of error, the •kf<•ruhnt In error will h,· cb:1r;:,•1l with tilt' 1•011t here, ( '.\k:Srtiry v,
Ca~llehcrry. 6 Tex. ~"i6.) \Vestall v, '.\fnrsh,dl. 16 Tex, h;l. At tlw ,·oht of th,• 11pp,•ll<'<', wlwr<' hf' had f&lktt t:o
remit (lrop,•rly. Wrav,•r v. Lewis. 12 T,•x. 10:3, 1114. Wh<'rC' tlw jwkrn,•nt was trn1 stn:\11, and h.nd been am,ndod, 
with duo notice In th<' di~trict court.. it w:1~ refornw,J at tlw cu~! nf th,; c1,·f,•u,lant In error (th,• ori;:fnnl plaintifff
lx>low). Mc~alry v. Cnstl,·hPrry, G Tex. 2'<>;. Ho wlwrc th,•r•· was n rem iffilur or d:una:?•·~ to which be wns net
entitled. Hrnckcn v. ~folll. 15 '1\·x. 115. And st the cn~t ,,r the plnlntltt' In err<>r, with datrull!e!I, although the
original plaintifff bad not app,·!dcd. \V'ortham '"· llnrri~,,n. 8 T,•'f. 142. Wh,re tit<' suit was upnn a judgment 
r,•ntl,'r<'d hy tho conrt of ehanC<>ry of :O.lis~l~sippl. th<' ...,,urt rcvers,•,l: but would not rt•nd,·r judgment for the 
plnlnlilf, he,~auso tho rnto of lnt~rest of that stnte had not h<'l!n prn,·Pd. P11trlck v. Gibb:1, 11 Te:i.:. 279. ""here
tho suit was upon the warranty of a slav<'. arnl the lnt,•r,·~t ha•! h,·,·n <'Xlin~11!"h<'•i by the !'<'rVkC'S of th!' ne~, a 
rn11itt-ih11· of so much 1lnmag,·s wa~ nllow,·d, an,! th,• j11tl;:mN1t affirm,·•l a~ to the balance. Srranton v. Lllk".Y,
16 Tex. !!Ir'>. \\"here thcr0 was certainly an exc-es11 or tw,•nty·fl\'C' dollar.< in the n·rdict: nn•l th.·re wns contra· 
dklory evldeni,e, and rnn ltt-itur wa11 rdns.•,l. the jmti:ment wn~ n·n·r,-, ·<I. l.,rrnnse of tlH' lnatt,•ntinn nnd lnn!X"U·
r:wv of the jury. lilies v. D!cr,•ks. 16 Tex. ~'12. Wlwr,• an nwnrtl wn~ mndl' bv 11rbltn1tnrs. anti th<·rt.' was no 
rii:ht of npp,inl, the court rcn·rs,•d the jwl!!nwnt of th,· dl~trlct Cl)nrt, 1rn.-l <'llkn•,l th<' nwnnl 11.~ thC' Ju•kment.. u
a b...tkr pr:idke Uian to remand. as in 011',~rlt•rs ,·. Dirk!!, 2 'l\·x. 471. For11h, y v. l(nlh·o:-id Compnnv, 16 Tex. :l,&O.. 
Where tht' proof dlcl not 11upport tht• nlleg:ition of a n·rhnl proml~e to J>:1)' lnkr,·~t. th,· eonri rcvC'r!!('d and
rerornw•l. s,, ns 1,, cx,·lndc tlw Interest. A1lrlance v. Brooks, ta Tex. ~'l'. In " prt•l'•'r <'fl!'<', th,, 1•n11rt re"'e~
th11 jurl~m,•nt of the <ll~trlct court.. and affirmod the judi?tnc•nt of tJt,, rounty court. !',J,mro(' ""· R,·art"y. 20 T,,.x.
84'!. Wh1:l'o n jury had b,•en waive,!. nnd, among otlwr Issues, a qu<'11tl~n or d:m1ai;<'s trnbmltted to thC' court, 
tlii" ('oart will cun~ltler thl• propr\,•ty of awnrdlug dam~es; nnd giVl' th,•m, or not., 1111 It. thinks just. HaldC'mtm,
v. ('hambN'l!I.. 111 Tex. 4:J. M. Where the daml\j?es exet.¥<l.C'<I the Vl'rdl<!t, the court reformed the judgment. 
EuropC'an & Am. C.JI. ::;oclety v. Reed, 25Tex. Supp. s.&8. The oourt will sometimes affirm the judgment as to the
luuc:, between some or the parties, and reverse ae to an leeue between otbera, where the justice of the ra.N 
l'A'IUlres It. ever.. ,vhere all the qne~tlon11 had been tried by the district judge. Haldeman v. Chambers, 19 Tex.
4-'3. 44. Wh,•rc an attn~hmmt hnd been Improperly qnrishe•I. but Judi.nnent w:lS rE'ndercd for the debt. the oourt 
reformed the jml~mt>nt, 110 ns to condemn the property nlt.'1ched to ht, i;ol<l. Griffith v. Uoblm•on. 19 Tex. 222.
It atlirnwd a d.•crcc as to dlrnroe, and rC'vnseri and r,,msnded, as to the que11tions or pro1wrty. Cnrtwrlght v. 
Cartwright, lS Tex. 64-'3, 6.W. It reverscd a.~ to some dcfon1lantll. and allirrut'tl us to otht>rs. M<"Cil•nney v •
Mcl'l<-nnev. 8 Tex. 11¥.1. And wberC' the snit wns to annul a 'lll'IJI. the t'ourt con!ltn1ed the w\11, 11ust11lned the 
bcqu.-~t o( the dl~prn.,.'lble portion, an,I rendc-re,1 the proper ,focrM or partition. Jlng,,rty v. lfoic,•rty. J;l Tex. 461.
Wh,•r,• the J•lrtlntltf sue,l to nnnul nhsolutc deC'IIS, sn,I tbt' duf, nrlant r,•rom·ened upon thl'm a;i mo~es. and
pmyc,l forl'e!o,n!"C'. upr,n ~ome of th.- lnnd1'. and upon otlwrs which h,• sai<I hn<I be1>n ~nh"titnt,•d In 11 .. u of them.
the court affirme<I 11:1 to the• mon,•y re<'-0vcry nnd th!' s:ile of th<' lanci" d,'scrlbc-d ln tlw 1ll'NIS. and r<'ver&<d as to
th,• s11J.stftnk,I lanil,1, altbnnc:h th1·re wns nelthc·r bill or t'XC<'Ption" or St.'lt..>111ent of facts. Castro v. llli<'S.. 18 
Tl'x. :?:\,,. :!:It,. W h,•r•· tll(l jml!!'ment wn~ for too murh. nnd th,• def"ndant in error ent<'red a l't'm ittifur for the
t>x, . ,,. tit•· <'onrt r,•\"er.;,·,1 nnd reform,·,! at the cost of th<' d,•f••n,bnt in 1·rror. Cornelius v. Thompson, Tyler T. 
27 Tt'X. 82. ~., where It w:u; for too little, arul thl'r<' hat..1 lw .. 11 :111 a111, n,lrn,·nt !11 the court bdow, without due
Dolle,•. McNairy v. Cn:;tl,•!Jl'rry, 6 'l\•x. 2s:-8. \rh,·re th,· p:i.rti,·i; 11nhmitted a lanrl ~c to the court, u11on an
llf..'rccd ~tl\t1•rne11t of l:lrts. the court rever110,l nn1l dlsml<\s,·,I. Y:inc,•y v. Norris, Tyler T. 2i Tex. 3:.l. And !!fl 
wh1>re tho deC..ndnnt was not personally llsblo on a warranty. Mathewl!I v. Allen, 6 Tex. 888. Antl wh,•rp tht•
flendin~ tacitly admitted the true state of the tltlos, the court N.'ver,-,,,t and reformed. Herndon v. Rob<•r™•Il. 
45 Tex. 604. Bnt whert> the l~snes have h.>cn foun<I bv a jnrv. we nenr ha,·<' felt nutlwrlzcd to do more tL:rn
roven;ennd remand. L.we v. Hnrher. 17 Tex. 821. The.court ,lit! r<"v,·rsc and rpfonn where the suit was for ~pe 
cltlc p,·rforrnance or comp<'nsntion for impro\"cm<'nt,. and the \'Crdict 1<how,)d the trne equity. Reynold~"'
Johnston, 18 T, :oc. 216, 217. WhC're th<' suit was to ,·njnln a nnlMncc , nn<I tlw jury found the materli1.l Issues ror
the plaintifff, and the court did not de<'ree nil th.- reli,•f sou::ht. this court. upon eroi-s oppenls. ret'ornwd the 
decre1·, and render('(! a perpetual injunction n::alnst ke,·ping- the livery ~t11hlc at thnt pluee. llnrdltt ,·. Sl\·elUIOn,
17 Tex. 4S!I, r,oii. And granted n r•·rp..tual iujunctlnn, wh,•re It wn~ proper. Fos!Pr v. Mc.\dnms, 9 Tex. M.'i. 
In u dh•nrco "ult. wh1•re there W:'I!! u 1-p,·<'ial v .. r,liet. till' court rrvcrs!'cl, and d('(:reed the marrlai.?e null
Robert~on v. ColC', 12 Tex. 365. In An lnjnnr.tlon cntt&.,. wh(·rc the ')tlt':<tion o( law Wllfl wrongly submitted tn the
jury, the, court r,•,·C'r!' .. ci ond reformed th,• jn<lll'Jnr-nt. Brvan v. Brld::,•. 10 T""· 154. Fpon a special yerdlct in 
n <'ll~ to annul n ,ih,ir1trs 1le(ld m!l<le hv ml~tak,'. the court reversed,nod ord•recl a convcvnnce to the lot to which
the purchMer Wll!! entltleci, althou:::h t!w dcfl'nrlant l:ri,l not pmy,•cl f.,r it in hb p,•iltlou. • Ancire\\·s v. Palmt>r. 9
T,·x. 49:l. The court revers,••! sn,I ,ti»mls~,·d. whcro th1·r•• wn• n VC'rdkt for th,· plnlntitfnp,.m an incho:itcSpanlsh 
tit!,•. Paschal , •. 1\•rcz, 7 T,•:t . .372. t-o wh,•r" tl1<' stntut,• of limitations had lil•en plc,ad to an open act'...,unt. ~
th<·re was a \'\'rtikt forJ1l11lntitf. nlthoto!h the d.-ht w:is c,,ntr:1ct,•(\ out ot' the state, nnd neither pnrty had cYer 
rC".~i,l<·d ln the 8t:tte. :m · ther,.! \\':\~ pr,,nf of n n·rl,:1l 11C'l;.!l,,w!,·d:::-rw·nt of th .. 1ld1t. :111<! no proof of the etft,ct of
tbn.t acknowl,•,1::m,·nt In !hr. tnrltory wlrnr<' It w:'" 111:1..i.... Lo\',: Y. Donk, l'i Tex. :its. S,) wlll'rc n party was fi.otld 
upon a ,;roumll•.'S8 hrfurmntlon. :-mlth "· The t-talP, 4 Tex. 3•11l. A <':tse was revns.'d, nnd a new trlnl ordered. 
hecnuse of the j!rent imperfection of th{• rcc,,r,I. Gr:1ys"n v. Cummin~. Da.llam, 891. ·whC'rl.l a <'JUie had been 
ta)[en by the dC'fondant from 11 justice's to tho district court. t,r urtiorari, and tbe entry WU11 "that tho com\ 
being tnllrmed that the matters had been eettled by the partfH, ft IA ordenid that the eame be dlnnluecl at the
eoet or the plalntUl':" upon which judgrncnt wu rendered a,raln11t the defendant before the jastlee. and his
NCurity on the OM"tlorar4 bond; the judgment w:ui reformed, and rendered airalnst the orlgln11l plalntltf. aa the 
plalntUl' d4 ~o In the dt11trlct court. Latimer v. llagnoll, 16 Tex. !>SS. The court reversed as to the eecarltv,
and afflnnod aa to prtaeipsl, tn a Cl'rltorari ease, at \,he cost or tho prlnclpol. Hopson v. Murphy, 4 Tex. 248. 
A dlaml1111&l carries coetll aglllnllt the plaintifff'. lo the ab11ence of an ngreement to tho contrary. Latimer v, Bag­
nell, UI Tex. lS89. Where the judgment was rcvcnied In a hab~ C<>rf>tU -. the court ordered the prhoner to 
be dlllcliarged. /Ii:l<f"W_te Walker, l~th Feb. lSM: & part~ French, 27th Feb. 1865; l!);:J' part» Fretelller, Mme
c1ay. And revened 11.Dd reformed, where ho ~honld hll"re b('('n remanded Into custody. bot had been kept under
the charge or the oourt. 'Jl)z poet« Wiley, 16th Feb. lSM. Where there had been a atlpu\atlon, that the con11lder­
atlon or the notes 11ued on should be, among other pro1><'rty, a judgment, and there was controveny III to whether
the plaintifff had Dot been releaeed trom that stipulation aa to the Jadgment, and the caee bad been aubmltted to
the court, the Judgment was reformed IO a11 to oompol an ustgnment of the judgment. Robertson v. Smith, 11 
Tex. 21 S-290.
But one of the defendants proeecnted tbe writ of error; but a11 the Jodinoent was on a joint obligation. 
and ta entire., the revcr1111l will operate a!I to both defendant& (Burleson v. Henderson, 4 T<'X. 49.) Wood v.
BmlUt, 11 TeL 86'3. In the cue or Burle.son v. Hendenon (4 Tex. M), on re-hcarlnir, Chief Justice Hemp­ 
hill renewed the authorities collected In 2 Sa11nders'11 Rep. 101, note/, and various others, and stated the rule
thu11:-Wbere a judgment la entire, and not dlatlnct and Independent, or where the partie11 havt' not dl11tloct
and Independent 1ntereats, and where the judgment operates to the prejudice of all the defendant.a, a revenal 
u to one shall operate as to the whole; with sueh modlflcatlona. u justice, under the enles of law and
equity, and our proeednre, may require. (6 N. Hamp. M7; Porter v. Rummey, 10 'MAIIII. 68.) Burleson v. 
Rendenon, , Tex. 119. Whl'lre none bat the defenrlant appealed, the error u to the aort>tl,.,. In the 11t•qnr11- 
tratlon bond will not be considered; nor will their right to prosecute a writ of error be nft'eeted. (Hendrick 
'f', Cannon, 5 Tex. ii&.) ChNtham v. Riddle. 8 Tex. 168. Where the jud,rment should have been. ·• to he
paid In doe course or ad111lnl11tratlon," It wa11 reformed accordingly. Thorn. v. The State, 10 Tex. 295. The
court reversed and dlsml!ll!od a 11.at for a beed-rteht, where on the second trial. as on the first, the evidence 
wu lnauf!lclent. Land Commlsslenera v. Riley, 8 Tex. 240. The court reversed and dlsmlssed In a forcible
entry cue, where the «rtiM'<1N ought not to have been granted. Clay v. Clay. 7 Tex. ~T. And reversed
and dl11mlUNi art Injunction where It ous:bt not to have been gnmted. Prewitt v. Perry, 6 TeL 268. And also
where amandamua would not Ile, Arberry v. Beaven, 6 Tex. 473; Lubbock T. Vince,~ Tex. 418, 417. The
oonrt divided co11t11, npon reversal Fowler v. Morrill, 8 TP.x. 1IIO. And reversed and dJ11mlMCd a summary
proceeding apluat the 11bertff'. whore the dtfonoe waa complete. Hamilton v. Ward, 4 Tox. 870. And re­ 
Tened and reformed, where the wife bad been la1proporly joined In the suit. Lawson Y, Barre, 6 Tex. 219 •
.And reveraed and reformed, according to appro.xlmate equltlea, In the emprwirio ault& Houlton v. Peny, 
I Tex. 890. . 
The supreme court will bear affldavltll In favor of lta own jurllldtctlon. (Wllltameon T. Kincaid, , Dall. 10; 
!lapn v. Fotaon, 10 Pet. 160; The United States Y. The brl« Union, 4 Cr. 2111; Wilson T. Daniel, 8 Dall. 401; 
Lord Y. Vesey, 8 Row. 961.) Barris v. HolJIIOn, 6 Tex. 383; Brown Y. Torrey, ti Tex. M, wbfoh eltf>11 Dini v. 
Beator, 11 Tex. 99; Maz1el v. Henaahetm, t Tex. 294. Bot not to contradict the reeord, and to disprove the 
1Dertl!'a ntunl upon the citation 1n enor. The rule 1n Barris T. Hopson (6 Tex. a88) doee not extend to eon­ 
tradlct~ the record. Pana v. Du Boae, Tyler T. 27 Tex, 7. Or to show that a case Is M,rned. (Hos­
kin& Y. Lord Berkley,, Teno. ffi; 8 BlackL Com. 4M: a Harn. & CrelltO. MT: J.,'letcber v, Peck. 6 Cr. 1,1, 
148; Lord Y, VtoZey. 8 How. 261.) Bro\YD v. Smith, Tvler T. 1Mt. Or that the appeal bond was executed
after tbe death or the appellant. (Harrie v. Hopson, 5 Tex. Mt.) Dial v. Reeter, 12 Tex. 99. And will receive 
record evidence to abow that the apparent controvPrsy ha11, or ml!,rllt haYe been adjusted. "' further pl'OCE'edlnga
In the oounty oourt. McMiiian v. Kelch, 16 Tex. 1112. Ir the record lead to the eoneluslon that the ca!!e WU 
feigned, or wu a wager Intended merelv to obtain the opinion of the court upon a co11stltutlonal and lt>jl'a) ques­ 
Uon,_ the oourt will not entertain jurl11tllctlon. (Fox v. Dodds, 8 Barn. & CresL 001-10; {',om, L. 1911; Cox v.
Phillipa. Hardwick, 2ll7; J,'letchM v. Peck, 8 Cr. 147-8; Henkin v. Guel'll8, 151 EMt. 247.) Smith v. Brown, 
I Tex. 871, 878. By the 161.h ecctlon or the diatrlct court act or 1886. appeals were given to the au~me court, 
• where the amount to controveny a.mounts to three hundred dollan." The anaount claimed In the petition
determined the amount In contronny. Hfde v. Oelrlch, Dalht.m, 867. Thl' act wu unoon11tltuttonal. Morton
T. Gordon. Dallam, 896. See constitution o the republlc, art. IV. sec. 8, note 186, ante page 84. The 48d eectlon 
of the eame act ,tave the judge or the district court, In crlmlnal cu,,11, the ri!!'ht to reserve a queetlon or law,
which to him may appeal' novPI or dtfflcolt., for the oon11ldl'll'&tlon and discretion or the supreme court at the next 
aocoeedlng term, and the 11uprt'm11 court shall prono11nce 11neb 11entence or jnrlgment u tlle district oourt ou,rht 
to have pronounced. In the absence of the pr1aonera, the points were dl11mlued. Republlo v. McCulloch,
Dallam, 867. Tbl11 section applied only to crlmtnal cases. Cartwn,ht T. Roberts, Dallam, 889. And until the 
court below bad rend,,red tlnal jud,rment. the aopN'!me ooort would not take jarllldlctlon of the .. novel quea­
tlona." It ta oDly another mode of rf'Yilllng the rullnsre. after final Jadgment. Tho Republic v. I..aughlln.
Dallam, 412. The court below must fll'llt decide the novel questions. Nl.llb v. The Republic, Dallam, 881. 
The supreme court will not entertain jnrll!dictlon where there bu not been a flnal judgment In the oourt
below. (Metcalf's Calle, 11 l'<>ke, 88; 2 Tidd, 1062; C.O. LIL J>. 288.) .Andrewa v. Androwa, Dallam, 427, 428.
Where there had been an order for alimony, and motion to attnch tor contempt. for refusal to pay, which wu 
oyemtled, It wu not a flDal Judgment &om wh1oh u appeal or writ or error would lle. Id. 
CLERKS. 
[ AN A.CT TO AMEND THE FOURTH SJWJ'ION OF cc .Alf A.CT TO ORGANIZE THE
SUPREHE COURT OF TBE BT.A.TE OF TEXAS." APPROTil:D HAY 12TH, 1846. 
ABT. 1563. [1] The fourth section of" An act to organize the suprt'me
court of the state of Texas," approved May 12th, 1846, be amended so aR to
read as follows, to wit :-Sec. 4. There shall be appointed for the supreme
court one clerk for each di.vision of the court, who, in addition to the duties
now required by law of the clerks of the supreme court, eaoh of the clerks
appointed under this act shall be required to act as librarian in kecpin~ and
preserving the books of the supreme court, and shall reside at th, place of
holding court, the appointment shall be made hy the court, or the judges
thereof, and shall be entered of record in the proceedings of the court, and 
each person so appointed shall, before he enters upon the duties of his office,
take and subscribe the oath prescribed by the constitution, before any officer
authori.u-d. to administer oaths genor~lly, and shall enter into a bond with
two good securities, to be approvod by the court or the judges thereo(
payable to _the s-overnor of tho state, and bis sucC'essors in office, in the penalty 
of t2,ooo, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of hia office,
and that he correctly reoord the judgments, decrees, decisions, and orders of 
the said court, and deliver over to his succes!-IOr in offioe all re()ords, minutes,
books, and paper,, and whatever belongs to his said office of derk, whic!l 
bond and oatb 1h.M~ witho~t delay, be depQeiteq ln tbe oftlce of th~ ~cr~tary 
el.feet 
of state, and shall not be void on the first recovery, but may be put in Stuu 
and prosecuted by any party injured, until the amount thereof be recovered,
and shall be deemed to extend to the faithful discharge of the duties of his 
office.]
§ 1564. (2915) [5] If, in vacation, the office of clerk :µiay become vacant, 
the appointment shall be made by the chief justice and the associates of said
court, or any one of said associates and chief justice; and the person so
appointed, shall give bond and take the oath as prescribed in the fourth
section of this act, the bond to be approved by any judge of the court ;
which bond and oath shall be deposited in the same manner as though the
appointment bad been made in term time, and may be prosecuted and put
in suit in like manner; copies of said bond shall be received in evidence in
any court in this state, in the same manner as the original would be, were it
presented in court ; and the said appointment shall continue until the nexs
regular succeeding session of said court, or until a regular appointment shall
be made. 
[ AN ACT TO .AlilEND THE SECOND AND SEVENTH SECTIONS OF AN ACT EN­
TITLED " AN ACT TO ORGANIZE THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
TEXAS." APPROVED 12TH MAY, 1846. 
ABT. 1565. [2] That the seventh section of the act entitled " An act to organize the BU· 
preme court of the state of Texas," approved the 12th of May, 1846, be amended so as to read
as follows:-" Section 7th. The clerk of the supreme court shall keep an office at the city of
Austin, at the city of Galveston, and at the town of Tyler.-That said clerk shall have power
to appoint deputies under him, from whom he may require bonds for the faithful discharge of
the duties of his office, by written appointment, under the seal of the court, which shall be filed
in the records of tpe court, to whom he shall administer an oath faithfully to discharge the
duties of his office, and for whose official acts he shall in all cases be responsible. That the
clerk of the supreme court shall appoint a deputy residing in the first, seventh, tenth, or
twelfth judicial districts, who shall reside at the city of Galveston, and attend at the office of
the clerk of the supreme court. That he shall also appoint a deputy residing in the fifth,
sixth, eighth, or ninth judicial districts, who shall reside at the town of Tyler, and attend at
the office of the clerk of the supreme court, and attend to, and discharge the duties of his
office during the absence of the clerk of the supreme court, or when the clerk is present, under
his direction. That the clerk of the supreme court, and his deputies, shall have power to 
administer oaths in all cases incident to the discharge of the duties of his office.] 
Arr. 1566. (2918) [81 The successor in offioe;of any clerk, shall receive
into his possession all books, papers, stationery, and every thing belonging to 
the said office; and should any person or persons having possession of the
same, refuse to give them up, on demand made, it shall be the duty of said
clerk to give information thereof to the attorney-general, or the district attor ..
ney of the district in which the said refusal may be made; who shall prose­
cute such person or persons in the name of the state, before any court having
jurisdiction of the same ; and, on conviction, the person so offending shall be
fined in any sum not less than five hundred dollars, nor more than five thou­
sand dollars, for the use of the state. 
805. A party, or bis attorney, bu the rlirht to the record In a eanse for three days before a C&Be 111 eub­
mftted; bot not after, without leave of the court. And, ff ho withdraw It, and Improperly keep it, the coon 
may decide agaln11t him without reference to the merlts, Chambers v, O'Brian, 14TeL 2~T. 
§ 156'1. (2919) [9] If any clerk of the supreme court shall know­
ingly make any false entry, or change any record in his keeping belonging to 
his office, every such clerk so offending shall be liable to prosecution in the
district court, and shall, on conviction thereof, be fined m any sum not ex­ 
ceeding one thousand dollars, and be imprisoned not exceeding ten years, and
shall also1>e liable to the action of the party aggrieved. 
[ AN ACT TO AMEND SECTIONS TEN, ELEVEN, TBIRTEEN, AND TWENTY-TWO
OF "AN ACT TQ ORGANIZE THE SUPREME COURT OF THE BTATJI: OP 
12TH MAY, .A.. D. 1846.
§ 1568. (2932) [2] The eleventh section of the above recited act is 
hereby amended, so that the same shall hereafter read as follows, to wit :­
" Sec. 11. On the rendition of any final judgment or decree by the supreme 
court, the clerk of said court shall not be compelled to issue and deliver the
mandate of the court, or certify the proceedings to the proper court, until all
of the costs accruing on the cause in the supreme court shall have been paid.
But in case said clerk shall elect to issue and deliver the mandate of the 
s,ourt, or certify the proceedings to the proper court, without such ooat,a 
having been paid, then he shall make ont a correct list of all the costs ac­
cruing on said cause in said supreme court, and shall issue execution therefore
against the party or parties, and his, her, or their securities, adjudged to pay
the same, directed to the sheriff of the proper county, from which the orig-mal
cause was removed, or to any county where the person or persons liable
under such execution may have property; and it shall be the duty of every
sheriff, on the receipt of any such execution, to execute the same under the
same rules, regulations, and liabilities as provided for in cases of executions
ti-om the district courts; which execution shall be returnable on or before
the next regular term of the supreme court; and any sheriff who shall fail
to make due return of any execution herein provided for, or to pay over any
costs so collected, when demanded, shall be subject to pay ten per cent.
damages per month on the amount of such execution, to the clerk of the su­
preme court, to be recovered on motion in the district court of the county 
to which the execution was issued-such sheriff having had three days' pre­
vious notice of such motion."] 
ABT. 1569. (2920) [12] It shall be the duty of the clerk of the supreme
court to procure a seal for the use of the court, which shall have a star of five
points, with the words "supreme court of the state of Texas," engraved
thereon. 
§ 1570. [1] [The clerk of the supreme court be, and he is hereby
authorized to have made for the use of said court, two copies of the seal of
said court. The one to be used by the said court sitting at Galveston, the
other by said court sitting at Tyler, the expenses to be paid out of the con­
tingeniiofund of said court.] 
PRACTICE. 
Arr. 1571. (2933) [3] rwhenever the snpreme court, on the trial of a
cause brought from an"! diltrict court, shall affirm the judgment or decree of
such district court, or when said court shall proceed to render such judgment
or decree as should have been rendered by the court below, and such judg­
ment shall be for the same or a greater amount, or of the same nature as
rendered in the court below, said court shall render judgment against the
appellant or appellants, and his, her, or their securities in the appeal bond- 
a copy of which shall always accompany the transcript of the record; and
said supreme court shall, in their discretion, also include in their said j udgment or decree, such damages, not exceeding ten per cent. on the amount of
the original Judgment, as the court may deem proper; and the judgment or 
decree of said court, rendered as contemplated in this section, shall be final,
and shall not require any order, decree, or action, on the part of the district 
court from which the cause was removed; and the clerks of the various district courts, on the receipt of the mandate of the supreme court in any such 
eause, sball.proc!e~d to isJ!le~~ ~~~~ ~~sisil. ,17, 1' r, 
606. ~dan on e appeal bond, cannot complain that they are Included In the same execn- 
Uon with the defendant who a pealed; nor that the defendants, who have not appealed, ore not Included In
the i,ame execution; nor that t e money hB.11 not been made out or the defendants who did not op\1eal; nor
that their property has be-en levied upon, unlees they allege that 1rnfflclent property or the appe lant bad 
been abown Md not levied upon. Turner v. Smltb, 9 Tex. 629, 680. The court, In awarding dnmnges, ts
not'reStrlcted to cases in which tbeJndinnent rendered above ahall be precisely tho 1111me In amount with
that "rendered below. Wortham v. arrlson, 8 Te:r:. 142. The eonrt may Include damage&, as well when 
lbe Judgment shall be for a greater, ..a the ume amount. Id. No damagca If Judgment be tor coata only.
Qreen v. Blalock, 25 Te:r:. 419. 
Where the judgment was alflnne<l, and there WBS a failure to render Judgment against one of the auretlea 
upnn the appeal bond, an execurlon ngainat such surety will be enjoined. Trammell v. Watson, 21) T<'x. Supp. 
116. And If the defendant, In the Injunction CllUM', would have a judgment In the dlstrlct court upon the bond,
be muflt reconvene by proper averments and prayer. J.I. Ho may, however, have the jml,:ment amended In 
thla court. where It WOii n mer" clerical mlsprl11lun nt the next term, or upon good eause shown by nll1'111,·lt nt 
• subeeqnent term. Trammell v. Trammell, ~ Tex. Snpp, 269. And this upon the !(enernl prtnciplc, tbnt 
when the Judgment of this court 111 entered, ltll minutes authenticated as l\ record, and the term or tho court 
eloeed, lthu no further revising power over the merit.II of Its judgments. (Chnmbers v. Hodges, 8 Tox. lS17.) Id. 
ID Chamber& v. Hodges (8 Tl•x. M9), Sibbald v. Tho United St.lites, 12 Pet. 49~; 3 Wheat Ml; 8 Pet. 481; 12 
Whe.at. 10; The People v. The City 'lr N ewYork. 25 Wend. 258, and the C48<'S ct tell, were- reviewed, and the same 
point ruled, Bnt tho court may, after the term, amend it!! records and judgments, ao far as to correct merely
clerical errors and mlstakes ; or by adding such omitted clause, In the rendltlon of the jndgment. aa moy be
Deoeeeary to give It effect, when there b any thing ln the judgment by which to amend, (Bank of Newburg v. 
Seymour, 14 .Iohns, 219; Van Buren v. Palmer. IS Julrns. ;)o2; lliink of Kentucky v. Wlstnr, 8 l"et. '81; Bae. 
Ab. Al11t.ll'D.MDT.) Trnmmell v. Trammell, 2:> Tex. Supp. 269. 
§ 1572. (2921) [14] In all cases decided by tbe supreme court, the
judgment or decree of the court E-hs.11 be in writing, and pronounced in open
court, with the reasons· of the court for the same, which shall be recorded by 
the clerk of the court in a book kept by him for that purpo~e. [optional.] 
§ 15'13. (2922) [15] All writs and process issuing from the sopreme 
court, shall Lear the test of the chief justice of said court, and be under the
seal of said court, and sicned by the clerk thereof, and may be directed to
the sheriff, or other proper officer of any county in the state, and shall be by
su-h officer executed accor.Iing to the commands thereof, and returned to the
court from which they em:mated; and whenever such writ or process shall
not he executed, the clerk of said court is hereby authorized and required to
issue another like process, or writ, upon the application of the party suing
out the former writ or process, to the same or any other county; and when
any person, plaintifff or defendant, in any suit pending in said court, shall die,
it shall be lawful for the clerk of the said court, during the recess of the
court, upon application by petition, to issue proper process to enable the
court to proceed to a final judgment, or decree, in the name of the representa­
tive of such deceased person. 
608. Where Lbe judgment was affirmed arter the death of the appellee, It was annulled and vacated at a 
1111b~, que11t term. Md toe c113e continued for parties. Martel v. Hernsheln, 9 Tex. 294.. The third clause contem­
plates jn,hrments only, which are by or r.,;nln11t persons In their own rtzbt ; and not thoee where the plalntilf or
defen-Iunt h an executor or admlnistrator ; for If they dle, thdr rcpreseutatlve 111 110~ the proper party, but the
r•·l'l'<'t'<·ntatlve of the decedent must be brought In. o.nd made s pnrtv to the proceedinz. Teas v, Robinson, 11 
Tex. ii6. And, in analogy, where parties have become dlsabled by ,1e:,th, marrluee, or otherwise, to substitute
others who represent or control the Interests Involved irf the lltlg:1tlon, 1111<1 to give judgment for or against
them, ,t-e. Id. And where the death Is before writ of error, the r,rnc1lee 1:- to serve the cltaUon on the lepl 
rupre.sem.atlve1 upon a statement of the raot In the petition. Id. This court has the power to adopt rule1 to 
enforce itlljun&diction. Id. 1'o be served flve daya. St. Clair v. Hotchklaa, 28 Te:s. 41'- 
§ 1574. (2923) [16] The said court may adjourn from day to day, or
for such longer period as they may think necessary to the ends of justice,
and the determination of the business before them: and there shall be no
diseon: iuuunce of any suit, prOCCS~, Or matter returne«l to, Or depending in 
the sup,:cme court, although a quorum of the court may not be in attendance 
at. the conunenocment, or any other day of the term; but if a sufficient
number of ju-Iges shall not attend on the first day of the term, to hold
said court, or shall not attend at any day of the term, any judge of the
court, or the sheriff attending the same, may adjourn the Raid court from
time 10 time, for thirty days, at which time, if a majority, or quorum, shall
not ar tend, it Rh:ill he the duty of the judge or sheriff in attendance to 
adjourn th« court to the next regular term time. 
AnT. 1575. (2924) fl 7J No judge of the supreme court shall sit in any
c.mse wherein he may be interested in the question to be determined, or where
either of the parties may he connected with him by affinity or consanguinity,
within the third degree, or where he shall have been of counsel in the cause;
and when the snpre:ne court, or anytwoof its members.shall be thus disqualified 
to hear and determine any c.mse or causes in said court, or when no judgment
cuu be rendered in any case or cases, in said court, by reason of the equal 
division of opinion of said judges, the same shall be certified to the governor
of the state, who shall immediately commission the requisite number of persons,
Ienrned in the law, for the trial and determination of said case or cases. 
.ART. 1576. (2925) fl 8] Whenever the supreme court shall he equally
divided in opinion on ·hearing any appeal or other matter, it shall be the
dutv of the chief justice or presiding judge of the court, to certify the same
to ;he governor; also, all other causes of disability of said court, as pre­
scribed in the foregoing section of this act. 
§ 1577. (2926) [19] The supreme court shall have power to punish
any person for a contempt of said court, according to the principles and
usages of law in like cases, not to exceed one thousand dollars fine, and im­ 
prisonment. not exceeding twenty days. 
609. Peebles, Baldwin, Zink, Hillebrand and Sull~r, were brought before the ooort upon habwa ~ 
Pending the proeeedlngs, the defendant took them. by mllltary force, from the custody of the sheriff'. Ilavfng­
heen attached for a contempt, Mr. Justice Bell summed up the tact& IIJld said :- .. The facts we have recited. 
1,'1ow that the prisoners were In the custody of the court, through It.ii mlnlstt>rlal officer, for Its Judicial aetlcn,
upon a matter with which It ls charged by the consututton and laws of the state, There ill no olftcer or tri­ 
bunal, civil or military, known to the law of the land, that could, without a vlolatton of law and a contempt or
thl~ court, rorelbl! take from under Its control, without Its consent, sald prtsoners, until the adJudfcation or the 
matter before IL The 8tl\tll v. Sp1trk11, 27 'l't•x. 631. The answer of the defendant state1 the following
i,:round11 :-1. The tallnre ot th .. llhl•ritf property to iruard the prisoners. 2. That the court continued
until thP next day the motion to ra-d .. liver tho prtsonera to the military anthoritie11. 8. That he waa 
compelled to his action by the superior orders of Major-General Magruder. Id. Major Sparks wa11 under no
official responsibtlttj- for the neglect oC official duties by the sheriff. 1111' fesrs tor the llllfety of the prisoners 
should hnve been adrlresscd to the court. The 11CCond ground can only be regarded 1111 a jnstlfteatlon or ex­
tenuation, when the clvll tribunals of the county 11hall sit io register the mllltAry edict.a or tho military anthori­
ttes, Such a showing Is no :ut)!rnvntlon of the untra,re upon the authority or the conrt. Nor can the Ule~ act 
Ix· Ju,tifled, no mo.tter how high the aource, or 1nperior the authorltY, from which the order OOMUlSted. Y.1lltary 
pfticers 11,ruJ. soldltirs are bouncl to obey the legal, not lllepl orders u~ thoir superiors. Illegal orders ahould be 
4Jai>beyed. Id. 'fhe soldl,·r 111 alwsyP. amenable to the civil authority. Id. Bot all the aefe1ulant &bowed a.a 
order from Major-Oenel'$1 Magruder, which eeemed to direct the act, an attachment ~·aa l.llllned to that ofllC4ll', ta 
ahow cauae. at the Tyler teJ'llJ, hJa porsonaJ presence being dlapensed with because ot hie publlc duUN. lei. 
m C1t4 n.,z.,. ~on., Jl'a,, 1884.-The CTOnnrt essumed In tho nn111ver or tho 1h•tend11nt, l\rajor-G<'ncrat
:Magnuler, Ill that tbla court does not aequtee jurisdiction of tht" applir-'1nt11, J)<'mllng the hrarln~ In the 1tnbt-'11 
t:JOrptu cauee; " that the major-general eomruandlng wu not nwnn, that these persons had 1.:11-1wd out of the
hands of the mllltary aatboritiea, when they were brought before the supreme court 111,un thr writ of habea1t 
eorpiu • nor did he Intend, when they Wl'r0 broueht bf.fore that trfbnnal, to yield them to the emlr» control of
the ctvtl powers, until It had been decided that they wen- ill<':!nlly arrested, und unlawfully In the possession
of the aathoritit'S reatralnlng them or their llberty. The mandate or the court n-1ptlred the prli111n,·rs to be
bNa,rht before It, and the parUee detatnlnir them, to show by what anthoritv, &c. 1 he prl&0n<•t11 w,·re broujl'bL
anti the proper returns made, and the major-genul'lll cotnmandlug suppo8Ctl that he virtunlly had poescssion 
ot the prleonera, until the honorable court, before whom they were broueht, should df'c•lde whether or not they
were rroperly and legally in poueeelon of the mllltary authorities. The Woo that the parth•s suing out the
writ o habMI corpua, were to be entirely under the direction Md eontrol of tho snpreme court, nnd entirely
tree from the oontrol or the mWtary authorities, as eoon a,; they were brought before that tribunal, was one
whlcli the major-general did not entertain; nor did h<' contemplate thn.t the guard which he had ordered to at> 
coupany them from San Antonio to Austin, In obedience to tho mandate or the supremo court, hnd lrft the
prl&mera In the handll of the sherllf or Travis county. and returned to Son Antonio, until made acquainted 1'ith
the lact by Major Sparb, commanding tho po9t at Austin." "He did not suppose tnat tho prisoners had been
tnui:!lfen-ed trom his cmtody to that or the cll'll anthorltlo&: but that be was only ltnble, In cue they weni not before
the court when required, and necel!86l'y to be there, pending the trial or Inveetlgation ot tho CBtlC. The law 
boltll! the J)IU'ty restraining another or hi.a liberty, responsible tor his act, Ir the restmtnt be Illegal; but It
does not take tho prisoner out or his custody, until the lllegality la determined," "An official copy or the
law or congreu, auspendlng' the writ of hab«.11 eorpu«; having been received at these head-quarters, and
under It and in aceordance with Ila provisions. Llenteno.nt-Geneml E. Kirby Smith, commanding department
Trans-Ml88lsa!pp1, having ordered the major-general commanding to detain the prteoners henitotore alluded
to, an order was dispatched forthwith to Major Bpnrks, directing him to bring the prtsoners away from Aus­ 
tin, under a mfflclent f.uard, and to 'disregard the present writ ot habta, corp1u., or any writ which may 
be subsequently iMued. " After severely reviewing this answer, the court Bald:-" Pending the e:umlnotlon
or henrtng, the prisoner, in all mLICS, on the return or the writ, la detained. not on the original warrant, but 
11nder the authority ot lw.bM• cor pV& He may be bolled on the retum d6 di6 in dum, or be remanded to
the 1!11.me jail whence he came, or to any other place or sate keeping, under the control or the court or offi­
cer IMulng the writ, and by Its offleer brought np, trom time to time, till the court or officer dctcrmloea
'Whether It Ill proper to remand or discharge him absolutely. The kinir's bench may, pendtng the hearing, 
remand to the Mme prison, or to their own, the mn.rt1halsca. The etHcocy or the orfginal commitment ta
suspended by this writ, whl11• the proeeedtnzs under It arc pending; and the sate keeping or the prisoner la
entirely under the control of the eonrt Issuing It, or to which the return Is made." (Per Nelson,_ J. In r•
Kaine,, 14 How. 184: Ba.con's Ab. tit. H .. uus Ooaeus, b. 18 · The King v. Bethel, lS :Mod. 29 • 1 Vent. 880. 
IWI; Fort. Mt; Hurd on llAbt.-as Cerpue, 824.) The State v. Magruder and S1,ark11, 27 Tex. 709. If
the lsw a111pendlng the writ or l&abta• C....,.ptJII applied to tfile case, n.nd a proper order had bcM>n iunNl.
It could only have been done by the order and judgment of the court; and a retnsl could not have jnt1tlfted
the defendants in taking the law into their own hnuds, and dlt10be7-1nfl' or Ylolating the proeese or the court. 
Id.. (The caae or Passmore Wllllnm11, 26 Penn. State Reports (2 Cesey), 9, quoted at length.) Id. But the
prit10nen were arrested J,y General Mn+rntder's own order, not by General Smith's. 1'hlir1!fore, the act IIUl­ 
pendlng the writ had nothlnz to do with the, cue. Id. And the order to detain them le clearly a viola­
tion or the act or eongress, That lnw does not forbid or suspend the IMuing ot the writ or lw.btaa cqr,pu& 
And unlcu It appear tro1n the application that the relief could not be granted, tt may and should be ia81,1ed ·
by the oourt; and It ls In all C&8'.·11 the duty or the party to whom It is dlrected, to an11\\·er it. Id. The
letter ot General Magruder to the court 11everely crltlcllled. Becaw,e or General :Magnider'a public dutlea,
he wu not Imprtsoned, but the rule ordered to bl, dlaeharged upon payment ot oosta. Id. 
.Airr. 1578. (2927) (20] The supreme court shall have fower, if neces­
sary, to establish rules of proceedings for the government o said court and
the several district courts in this state, not inconsistent with the laws and
constitution of the state : Provided, that the rules for the government of the
district courts shall not have effect until they have been published at least
sixty days in some newspaper published at the seat of government. 
81 O. Where there Ill no suggt>atfon or diminution or record., It will be re,rarded u complete for all the pur­ 
pose.a of the appenl. Roblnt10n v. Varnell, 16 Tex.. 886; Hipp v. Bl811Cll, 8 Tex. 28. The BUggestion must be on
oath. Griiys:>n v. Cummins. Dallam, 891. It hM been the practice, when a cue has been called, and there 111 no 
appcsranoe or the appcllee or 1lefendant tn error, to continue, on the application of the appellant or plalntttr In
error, t:..,le1111 the judgment 10ngbt to be reversed ls for money or Sp<'Cltlc property, and the record bean on lta 
r.ce the appearunoc that the Appeal or \\Tit of error wat1 trlvolou11, and tak<'n for delay. Thom v. Lawt10n, 6 Tex.
i40. Where there was a suggestion of a diminution ot record, and a urUora" l118Ued, which brinp up a final
r~or,l, whdher with or without a compliance with the terms pre8cribed, it has pertormNI It.ti office, and lo 
f-cta, oJ!lcw. Nf'w aronnds for the dismlSllOI or the appeal will not be heard after lta return. The Bank .-.
Blmonton. 2 Tex. l'l88. It ls tho practloo or the court, when a cue ta l!Ubmltted by the appellee or defendant tn
error, to <'itamlne the record, and lf no glaring error 111 dlscovrred, to affirm the jud~ent. League v. Whiting
Dec. T. 1~ (not published): ..ll,:,xander's Digest. p. 482, 11ec. U2. By a n1le eatabUahed at this term, an apj;:f 
will not be dll!Ull88ed beeau!IC no person apponrs to prosecuw. Garcln v. Twohig, Id. p. 182, ~ 11~ It la the
duty or the appellant to eoo that the reoord ls properly brought up. Patton v. Mllla, Dallam, 866. 
§ 1579. (2928) r21] The Nai<l conrt, or any judge thereof, in vaca­
tion, may issue writs ot habeas corpus, mandamus, and such other writs as
may be 11e<'es~ary to enforce the jurisdiction of said court, and a]so to compel
a judge of the district court to proce(•d to trial and ju<lgment in a cause,
agreeably to the principles and usages of law, returnable into the supreme
court on or before the first day of the term, or during the session of the
same, or before any judge of the said court, as the nature of the case may 
require. 
811. Rad the urtinrari to the dl11trlet cl.•rk be('n dl110beycdi a mu11dflm111 should hal'o boen ~ppllcd for, 
ud, on proper showing, would ba,·e lll'en obtained. Chambcr.1 Y, lodgC'S, 8 Tex. 682. 
§ 1580. (2929) [23] There Nhall he no reversal on an appcnl, nor
shall the same be d1~missed for want of form, provided sufficient matter or
substance be containc<l in the record, to enable the court to decide the cause
upon it~ merits ; and where the court shall be of opinion that an appeal or
writ of error has been taken for delay, and that tht1re was no good, probable,
and snffi<"ient cause for taking such appeal, then, and in that c:ise, the appel­
lant, if he be the defendant in the court below, shall pay ten per cent. on the
amount in dispute, as damages, tog(•ther with the Judgement, interest, and
costs of suit thereon accruing. · 
812. Wb,re there 11re no bills of exeepttons, ststement of r11cta, nor error suggested, or apparent on tbe 
l'<'cord, It ls the dutv or the coun-u-I to su~;!c•st delay ; and Ir even that should be omitted, ft ls usual for~
court. under such clr~um;.t:1?11·.·~. t« awurd tlil· d:unagt.',; uuthorized in eases or frlvoll'U6 appeals, CbAmbere T 
Hodzea, 8 Tex. ,~'\:.!. Where ,J.,Jay 1-. i-nggest('d, the court will reverse for errors apparent upon the record
Rl!.!'~11 v. Horde, ~ Tex. Supp. 466. Where the rll11trlct court. rerused to renuer judgm,·nt for the c,t1UDagee 
found In a verdict, thla eonrt will not revise the judgmeut, unlese there be a special verdict. Keeler
"· Robson, 16 Tex. 120, 121. Where the anft wns to recover lnnd and damages, and the verdict wu: "We 
the jnry, flnd the iJC1111~ jniutd for the plalntllf. and assess his damages at one dollar," It waa sufflclently apeclal
and the court reversed and ref .. rmed the judgment to conform therewith. Robertson v. Mc.Millan. Dallam.
1565. Upon appeal from a jucl~'lncnt overruling o. ~oner.ii dewurrer to a petition, no grounds of demurrer will be 
eonsldered which do not go to the plaintifff's right of action, George v. 'I'homss, 16 Tex. Sl That the foreman 
or the jury shrn• "Kellough," when the recital spelled It •• Koloc," Is not an error of law. Robertson v. McMil­
lan, Dallam, M."i.. Where there had been a final judgment, from which no appeal was taken or prosecuted an 
appeal from nn incidental order to enforce the execunon only brings In revlew matters enbsequent to the ftiai 
decree. Ml\rtin v. Clerk, 6 Tex. 26. 27. A writ of error does not NACh proceedlngs subsequent to the Judgment.
until they bnve been passed upon by the dlstrtct court. Robertson v, Mc~fillnn, Dallam, Mi. Where the bill 
of exceptions was not et1p1e<l by the judge, nnd there were tnetrucuons offered by appellant and appellee, ''given,"
and "rcfuS4.id,'' but not signed by the judge, which were flied on the do.y ot trial, the presumpnon le that ther
were'l\led hy order or the court; and some or them being erroneous. they were errors aJ)Iinrcnt of record. Cloncl
v. Smith, 1 Tex, 102.. If the statement or facts show what evidence was excluded. or what admitted. against 
objections, the ruling will be revised without o. bill or exceptions, because all error will he corrected tr preeented
either by bill of exceptions, statement or fact.a. or is otherwise apparent on the record. Hall v. Btancell. 8 TeL
402; Cloud v. Smith, 1 Tex. 102, 10:). Since the cases of Herbert v, The Republlc, December term, l~ (unpnb­
llahed), and Foster v, Smith, 1 Tex, 72, no judgment onght t.o be reversed ,11ff'tl11 on the ground that the ver­
dict was not eupported by the testimony, unless a motion ror a new trial hnd been made In the court. below and
overruled, and then the evidence and grounds or motion should be spread on tho record. Tarpley v, Poage, 
2 Tux. 152; Smith v. Sherwood, Id. 464. We cannot well conceive o! n cnse, where the con+lnuauce or 11, cauM 
could be brought. before a revising tribunal. But the refusal to eonnnue may be revised, nf'tcr tlnal Judgment.
not before. Dow v. Hotchkiss, 2 Tex, 472. The court noticed the question of lhnltatlons, where the statute waa 
pleaded generally, M an errornt law, ui,on the authority of these ca80&,-Watt& v, Waddel~.6 Pct. 40-3; Gal land 'Y. 
Darla, 4 How. 1~; 16 Pet. 319; 6 Cranch, 2'lJ.; 1 Gall 2M. Gnuticr v. Franklin, 1 Tex. .as;ep. 788. 
§ 1581. (2930} [24] In all cases of appeal to the supreme court, the
trial shall be on a statement of facts, as agreed upon by the parties or their
attorneys, certified to by the judge of the court below ; or should the parties
fail to agree, then the judge of the court below shall certify the facts ; or on
a bill of exceptions to the opinion of the judge; or on a special verdict; or
on an error in law either assigned or apparent on the face of the record; and
in the absence of all these, the appeal shall be dismissed with costs alone,
or with costs and damages, at the discretion of the court. 
813. Where errors are ualgned, the par,y ill concluded by his own assigmnent, except as to such e,rrore M 
,o to the foundation ot the action. Steen v. The State, 2i TeL ss, Thero wlll be no rerlalon upoa
the merits, without a,tat.ementoffaota. (Henderson v, Trimble, 8 Tex. 174.) Sublett v.KcrrJ:91'eL 8i0. tiOI' 
or the tnstructlona, itlven or rctu'lled. Holman v. Britt.on, 2 Tex, 299, 800, 80i; Chandler v. Tne State, Id. 808.
Without It, every tJilng which could have been _proven under the pleadings. will be presumed In favor of' the
Judgment. Headersoti v. Trtmble, 8 Tex. 171>. Where there Is neither statement of fact.a, nor blll of exceptlona,
nor error apparent npon the record, we must rresume the judgment was rightl.r rendered, and upon 11ufflclent 
legal testimony. (Dowees v. Hudgeons, 1 Tex. 92; Jonesv. Black, Id. 521; Duffield v. Bodine,2 TeL 292; Borden
v. Honet.on, Id. 094; .Kirkman '"· Snlvel:r, Id. 441.) Moc,rc v. Hardison, 10 Tex. 474; Seerest v. Townsend, 1 
Tex. 414; Hughes v. The Repnblic, Dec. T. 1646 (not pnbll11hed) Alexander's Di~est, p. 462, t!CC.'I. 116, 117; Mann
"'· Thrueton, Dallam, 870. Where the case was submitted to the court below upon an agreed statement of Caota. 
the part.lee are t.o be con11fdered aa having waived All previous frrcgularftlea. (Bates v. Tho licpubllc. 2 Tex. 61&.
619.) Chappell v. Mcintyre, 9 Tex. 168. In DewP.es v. Hudgeons., there was a motion, grounded upon &ffidavlu,
to remand the CRUIIO for new trial, on tho ground that tho statement or facta bad been lost. The court considered 
the question aa to whether judgment would be ro,·ersed upon matt,re aliUfldll the record; re\'lewed Wat.eon 
"Y, Olare, lS Mart. N. S. 100 · Porter v. Dugat, 9 Mart. 92; Davis v, Dang, 1 Mart. N. S. 589; but left tho point open,
and ruled that the appliCAUon came too lo.te. Dewees v. Hudgeons, 1 TeL 192 to 198. The only statement of
facta, whlcb the court will notice, 11 that ccrtffted under the statute. The affidavit of an expert, who swears io 
notes taken by him as he awears und11r the order of the court, will not be noticed. Walker-v. McNelll, .D&llam,
Ml. The appellate court will only consider the obJectlona to evidence ta.ken at the trlaL Rector T. Bud­ 
eon, 20 Tex. 286; Leach v. 'Mlllard. 9 Tu. Ml; Herndon v. Casiano, 7 Tex. 888, which cites I.Smith v. Town•
eend, Dallam, 1'>72. 678; Houston v. Perry, lS Tex. 462, and vlU'lone other autborltlea. And particularly stated.
(Cow. & Bill's Note11 to PhlL Ev. Part 2, n. 403.) Or where It fa apparently Incompetent. Cheath&lll
v. Riddle, 8 TeL 166; Hon11ton v. Peny, lS Tex. 467, which aftee the oommon law anthoritfea. The
defendaot will not be heard here to exoopt to fn11trnct1one gf veu at his own request. Hagerty v. Scott, 10 Tex. 
626. Where the tnatrnment declared on wa& excluded from the jury, the court will revise upon the bill of e:r:­
ceptlona, without a 11to.tement or fact&. Sublett 't', Kerr, Ill Tex. 812'0. An errone,,u" rultng admitting evidence_
doea not necessarily require a reversal or the Judgment. (Davie T, Loftin, 6 fex. 496.) Wlllla v. Chambers, 8
Tex. 161. Sufficient or the faeta muat appear t.o enable the court to determine whether the rulfng Influenced
tho trial, or prejudiced the appellant. (8d ed. Phll. Ev. Cowen "5 Bfll'11 Notes, note 203, p. 466.) Id. .And how 
the 11vfdenc.e excluded 'WU material llryant ..,,, Kelton, 1 TeL 486. Where there had been a new trial, the 
court wUI not notice the bill of exceptions taken at the .11.nt t.ri&L Kirkman v. Snively, 2 Tex. "8. 
§ 1582. (2031) [25] The appellee shall not be required to file any
answer to the assignment of errors or defects as may be insisted on by the
appellant, but he shall fur.nish the court with a brief of his argument and
the authorities on which he relies; and where the appellant does not appear,
or furnish the court with a brief of the cause, the appeal may be dismissed.
or the appellee may at his option proceed ~ parte. 
AB .A.OT OOllOBRNilfG TBB PBOCEBDINGS IN TBJC SUPREKB COURT. 
ABT. 1683. (2934) [l] The clerk of the supreme court shall file and care­ 
fully preserve the transcripts of all records certified to said court, and all
papers relative thereto ; and shall docket all causes brought to the court,
puttini all those from each judicial district together upon the docket, in the
order m which he shall receive them. 
A.RT. 1584. (2935) (.21 The said clerk shall faithfully reoord the proceed­
ings and decisions of saicf court, and certify their judgments to the courts 
from which the causes were brought. 
ABT. 1585. (2936) [3] The causes on the docket of said court may be
tried by districts, or m such order, as to the judges of said court may seem 
best calculated to promote the interest and convenience of the parties or
their attorney : Provided, that all appeals in criminal cases, shall be called
for trial before the civil causes from the same district; and all causes shall
be tried at the term they are docketed, unless satisfactory cause be shown
for a continuance. 
§ 1586. (2937) [ 4] When an appeal from any final judgment of a dis­
trict court has been taken, and an appeal bond bas been filed, or when an
appeal bas been taken in cases where no appeal bond is required, or when 
& citation has been served on a petition for writ of error, it shall be the duty
of the appellant or plaintifff in error, as the case may be, to file a transcript of
the record of the cause with the clerk of the supreme court, in the following
manner:- 
§ 1587. [5] It shall be the duty of the appellant or plaintifff in error,
to file a transcript of the record with the clerk of the supreme court, on or
before the first of the term of said court next succeeding the time when the
appeal was perfected, or the citation on the petition for wtlt of error was
served; or on or before the first day of the time during said term, that may
have been designated by the supreme court, for the tnal of causes from the
district in which such appeal or writ of error was taken : Provided, that such
appeal was perfected, .or such citation was served, forty days before the said
first day of the term, next succeeding the taking thereof, or forty days before
the first day of the time in said term, designated by said court for the trial
of causes brought from said district. 
614. This aecUon compared with scctlons 189 and 140, ot the district oourt act. Reynolds Y. De Chaumee,
ti Tex. 118; Chambers v. Ff11k, Id. 844; Chambers v. Sb1&w, 16 Tex. 144, 14ll. Either party has the right to file
the transcript within the time. Reynolds v. De Chaumes, 22 Tex. 118-19; Hutcheson v. Owen, 20 Tex. 288. 
And so either has the right to obtain an attested copy ot the record trom the district clerk. But neither ha.a the
~ht to rely upon the other to ftle the trnnscrtpt. :Keynold11 v. De Chaumea, 22 Tex. 119. Where the appellant 
ahowed, tor cau5e, that ht11 attorney bad demanded a copy, which had been prepared and delivered to the appel·
lee's attorney, who had never ordered a copy, but who retained It, and died a certificate tor aftlrmance, and the 
time for ftllog had expired, the appellant wns allowed to flle the oopy, i-ytng oost of the motion and the cerU.h,
...._ 14. Bad the appellee's attorney ordered and obtained a oopy tor hlm11e~ the rule would have been d11rer­ 
mt. Id. 120. The transcript loses Its force If not properly ti.led. Cunningham v. Perkins, 28 Tex. 488.. 
Whatonr may have been the decision In Spann v. French (18 Tex. 91). It 111 certain that the tum of tbla
court, next after the servlee or citation In error, Is the return term at which the writ ot error must tn general be
lled tn this court. There la an exception, where the servtce was perfected during the term, and the forty daya
elapee before th"' end ot It. Then that la the return term. (Wheeler v. The State, 8 Tex. 228; Wilson v. True­ 
hart, 18 Tex. 287.) Chambers v. Shaw, 16 Tex. 144. The time cannot be enlarged by constructJon. Id. 146. 
Thia cue is believed to have overruled the ease of Spann v. French (13 Tt.ix. 91)1 aa, In that cue, the judgment 
was dated 20th Oct. HIM, and the petition (Qr writ or error, 3d March, 18M • ana there had boon no service of
the citation; yet the court affirmed on certltleate, See note by RIU'8., 16 TeL 144. And It wu overruled. 
Oronk "· Crunk, 28Tex. 604. It ls only when the citatJon has been aerved, that "It la lawful" tor the defendant 
tn e1TOr to ftle the cerLiJlcate, and have an afflrmance or the judgment. Chambers v. Shaw, 16 TeL 14ll. And
cannot get an afflrmanoe at a subsequent term. Fowler T, Morrill, 8 Tex. lM. But the defendant ma7
acknowledge ae"loo, or waive the necesalty of a citation In error In the court below, and bring up the record.
and submit thecaee to the court aa a delay cue, or tor a revision and judgment upon the merits. Chamber& T. 
Shaw, 16 Tex. 146. Where the defendant In error acknowledged se"lce on the 12th NoT. 1867, the record
uoald have been filed at the Galveston January term. 18118; and not having been filed at the subsequent i?. 
It wu stricbn from the doctet. Stone T. Taylor, fl Tu. CiC5G. And the Mme le the rule where an a
Jau been perfected. Walea v. McLean, H, Tex. 18. Judgment, 6th June, 1858; cltadon llel'Ted. 16th oT. 
1M4; transcript ftled eth N.,Y. ISM It should at least haYe been filed at the term, ISM. Dlamllllled, although 
too late ~r another writ ot error. Dias v. Munoa, IT Tex. 51S. We have often decided that an appeal, or writ 
ot error, muet be docketed at the term to which It la returnable; and it not, ha force and effect are destroyed tor
enry pnrpose whatever. It ean no longer delay an c.xecutlonJ.. or be docketed and tried In the a_ppellate court.
(Wenthered v. Lee, 3 Tex. 189; Roberts v. Landrum, Id. 16; Brock v.Jarman, 1 Tex. 202..) Walea T. McLNn,
14Tex. 18. 19. But the partlt>s may wl\lve the time, and agree that the e&\168 may remaln upon the doolte&. 
Jd. 19. If the record ts eo detective trom Interlluearlone, omlsalona, and eruurea, H to render It unlntelllglble,
U w111 be dismissed. [See Stephens v. Thayer, 26 Tex. 841, a.a to time.) 
[ .AN Af!r FURTHER REGULATING PROCEEl)INGB IN THE SUPREME COURT. 
ABT. 1588. [2] The sixth section of the act of February 11th, 1850, en­
titled "An act concerning the proceedings in the supreme court," is hereby 
repealed.] 
815. The repealed 11ectlon read as tollowa:- 
(6] If the appeal was not perfected, or the citation on the petition for writ or error was
not served, forty days before the first day of the next succeeding term of the supreme court,
after the taking of such appeal or writ of error, or forty days before the first day of the time
that may have been designated by the supreme court, for the trial of causes from the district
in which such appeal or writ of error was taken, then it shall be the duty of the appellant or
plaintifff' in error, to file a transcript of the record with the clerk of the supreme court, within
forty days after the time when such appeal was perfectod, or such citation served: Provided
such appeal was perfected, or such citation was served, at any time before the first day of Febo
ruary next, succeeding the taking of the appeal or writ of error; t>ut if such appeal was nc t 
perfected, or such citation was not served. forty days before the first day of February ues+
succeeding the taking of the appeal or writ of error, then it shall be the duty of the appellan, 
•r plaintifff" in error, to filo said transcript as directed in the next preceding section. 
The proviso, after the division of' the court, bl-came tncp:,llrable. Wheeler v. The State 8 Tex. 288. The cer­
tHlcate must show thllt the court had adjourned before the eornmeneement of the term. Co.h-ert v. Walkv, 
8 Tex. 16. Whtre the tran11rript '\\'U fil<'d by the sppelh-e before the expiration of' tho thirty (now forty) d11ya,
the rl!rhts or the apr,••llan t attached, and the record was no longer within the exeluli ve control or the appellee.
Id. Soc Keese v. Swift (8 TeL 111), upon the former law. 
§ 1589. (2938) f'l] In case the appellant or plaintifff in error, shall fail
to file a transcript of the record as directed in the two preceding sections,
then it shall be lawful for the appellee or defendant in error, to fife with the
clerk o1 the supreme court, a certificate of the clerk of the district court in
which any such appeal or writ of error may have been taken, attested by the
seal of his court, and stating the time when such appeal was perfected, or
such citation was served ; whereupon, it shall be the duty of the supreme
court, to affirm the judgment of the court below, unless good cause be shown
why such transcript was not filed by the appellant. or plaintifff in error ; and
in cases where a bond has been given by the appellant or plaintifff in error, if
a copy of such bond accompanies such certificate of the clerk of the district
court, the judgment shall in like manner be affirmed against the sureties in
such bond. 
818. Tfile section oc,mpar(.'(} with the preoedln!f and the next. Ohambera v. Ft&k, 20 Te:r. M4; Cbamben
v. Shaw, 16 Tex. l~ The act ot 16th December, 1~ "to eetablbh and organize the eupreme eourt," Jr.c., hlie 
the followl.Dg :SEO. 'l. In all cases taken to the supreme court, in case the copy or the record in the canse 
below shall not be filed with the clerk of the supreme court, on or before the first day of the 
term to which such case wns taken or returnable, it shall be lawful.for the court, on motion of
the defendant in appeal, and on producing a copy of the citation duly served on the defendant,
to dismiss the cause, but the same may be reinstated at any time during the term, if good cause
be shown to tho satisfaction of the court why a copy of the record was not filed in due time. 
Where the record wna not fll<'d untll aJ't-0r the next t1ncce<·dlng term, the court bl\d no dtscmlon, and the
appeal must be dl11mlll8ed. Scott v. Allen, 1 Tex. 661. Where a defendant had appealed, and failed to ftle the 
transcript by the next term. the lrgul Impediment wu removed, and be might sue out execntlon. Shapard .,..
Balleul, 8 Tex. 80. Or be mleht have had the appeal dlsmissed. Id. Where the tmn11Cr!J1t wu flied while the
eald repealed section wu In fore<', but not actt>d upon until tho repeal, the Cll88 WM afflrmf'd, 11itbont ref'en-nce to 
the rnerfta. Proctor v. Maher. 6 Tex, 226. There can be no afflnnance under this section, unleu the t'1t&t1on
baa been servrd, or eorvlro arknowle<li,red. (Patton v. Laforee, 14 Tex. 240; Wll11on v. Truehart, 18 Tex. 28'1; 
1.1. o. 14 Tex. 81; Chambers v. Shaw, 16 Tox. 148; Glnvecke v. Delmar, 18 Tex. 496.) White v. Proctor, 17 Tex.
406, 407. That Is, upon all neceseary partfe11 · but a {'llrtY again et whom the plalnlfff' In error bu rocovered
over, does not &<'<·m to be II D<'C4"ssary pnrty to ~ serve« with citation. Wilson v. Truehart. 14 Tex. 83. The
::ertiflcate must show when the eervlee Wal! perfected. Patton v. Laforce, 14 Tu. 240. And the bond lhollld
bear date, Mflle v. Bllf.!by, 4 Tex. 824. The appeal bond 11how11 when that wu perfected. (~ill• v. Bagby, 
4 Tex. 820.) Patton v. Laforce, 14 Tex. 241, 
§ 1590. (2939. [8] But in all cases where the supreme court shall have
nfflrmed the judgment of the court helow, under the provisions of the nen·
preceding section, said court may at any time during the term at which any
such judgment was so affirmed, permit the transcript to be filed by the
appellant or plaintifff in error, and the case to be tried on its merits: Pro­
vided, the appellant or plaintifff in error, shall show to the court good cause
why the transcript was not filed by him in accordance with the provisions of
the fifth and sixth sections of this act ; and shall also show to said court, that
he bas given the appellee or defendant in error, notice of his intention to 
apply for such permission to file said transcript; and in cases where the
supreme court shall adjourn within forty days after any judgment shall have
been affirmed, under the provisions of the next preceding section, the supreme
court may permit the appellant or plaintifff in error, to file said transcnpt on
the first day of the next succeeding term, or the first day of the term that
may have been designated by said court for the trial of cases from the dis­
triot in which such appeal or writ of error was taken, and have said cause
tried on its merits: Provided, said appellant or plaintifff in error, shall show
good cause why said transcript was not filed, as directed by the fifth and
sixth sections of' this act; and shall also show to the court that he has given
the appellee or defendant in error, notice of his intention to apply for permission to file said transcript. . 
817. Thi• le intended to relieve any ooo who, by accldent, mtstake, or ml&f'ortune, baa tailed to ft!e
the tranacrtpt; but not to reault to the fnjnry of the appelleea. Olwnben v. Flelt, iO Tex. 3U. A bon4 
M,e intention to bring the cue up wu admitted. Id. On good and eufflclent canse shown, in any cue. 
why the tranllCrfpt wu not filed In terms of the law, tho court may permit the transcript to be fifed
by the appellant or plaintifff' ln error. Wheeler v. The State, 8 Tex. 284. Tho appellant or plalntlff ha. 
error, and all the oftloors, should be promJSt and dtllgent. Id. Tho eauee may be shown against the moUon
to affirm, under the 7th ecctlon; as that the appelfoe took out the transcrlpt, which toe appellant had·
ordered, and had prematurely filed It. Calvert v. Walker, 8 Tox. 16. 
He must ehow affirmatively every tact which ta neoeseary to bring hie cast' l'trlctly and ltterally within the
1tatute. Id. A judgment was affirmed, without reference to the merits, tt]lon the recordjt_ud by UuJaM>N­ 
lane, after the expiration or the time, on the ground that the showing wu not eufflclont. De Leon v. Oweu.,
8 Te:r. 188. Justice Wheeler dlssented, Id. IM. There le no exception lo the statute In favor of the etat.e, con­
sequently, thte eonrt wtll require the same dlltgence on the part of the state all lndtvtdualL The State v. Kroner,
2 Tex. 468. The decltion wu upon the 22d eection or the act ot 1846, to organize the supreme court, which ta 
lo princlple the same, Id. Thie la not a statute of limitations. but or practice. Id. Citation l1111Ued 8th Deoembw 
1858, and executed next day on one of the plalntl1f11 tn the jud,rment;, no aervfoe u to the other det't,nwmc., and 
llo aUa.. Tranacrfpt filed by d.Cendant tn error, served on llOth l>ecemoer, ISM. with motion to afflnn: delelldaat. 
I• 616. But a copy or the notice ta not nec4111U'J. A copy of the Judgment and certUlcate of the clerk u to 
wfien iheappeal or citation wu perfected,le all that ii requlr H. & T. C. , W,Oo. "· Gneawood.,60 Te&. 818) 
oog e 
In enor movetl to strike trom the docket. The plafntUr In error wu requfttd to UM due clll~ce to l>Clfeet
Nfflce. (Wheeler v. The State, 8 Tex. 228.) Glavecte v, Delmas, 18 Tex. 496. Falling to take out aUaa 
'° move an aftlrmance upon the merit& ld. Where eemce ha6 boon perfected. or doe diligence need. the
defendant In error CIIIDDOt bring up the record, l!O u to defeat the right or the plalntitr to a&11ign errors, unUl 
citation tor over a year, the detendanta In error bad the right to bring up the record, and have It dlamfSl!ed; or 
attar th~od allowed the latter tor that p~ Id. The plaintiffr In error cannot make his neglect a ground 
... atrl the aue from the docket. Id. The tranacrlpt of the record Is defective, In that It 18 not certified
to be a tu tnnaerlpt ot the proceedlng:s; nor that the appeal bad been consummated bf gt~ bond; eense­ 
quently, under the cledlllon In Mllls v • .Hagly, th-,re wae no appeal. The afflrmance and manclate at the laat 
term are nullities, and both are revoked. M.artin v. Latimer, 4 Tex. 886. This section strictly construed.
Barris v. Williams., 4 Tex. 389. With tho ualgnment attached. Miller v. Jaeper, 10 Tex. 614.. The 81181gnment 
ot errors, af\Elr flling the tranllCl'lpt and bringing up a copy, will not prevent a dlemllllllll ot the appeal
.Andenon v. Wallace. 10 Tex. 297. It the errors be asal@Ded, and the transcript returned to the clerk of the
district court before filing, It ts his duty to attach !t; and, it he refuse, and the tact be shown on oath, a Mlparate 
oartUled copy ot the a1111lgnment or errors may be filed with the record. M111er v. Jasper, 10 Tex. 61~ The
object ot the ustgnment or errors in the district court. le to give notice in time to appear tu the supreme court.
Tliat is aeeompltshed, If It is flied In time tbr notice. Id, ~llS. Without an ass1~ment or errors, the appeal 
will be dismleaod upon s~eatton. although the appellee argued some ot the exceptions mlsed below. (,'beval­
ller v. Whlt:lkt-r, 8 Tex. 2(M.. It a party has answered In two cepactttos, he must 1U111lgn his errors In two 
eaJl9C!UcA. Seawen v. Lowery, 16 Tex. M. Tht> 888lgnment of contradictory errors to the 1111me ruling, neutral­ 
be eaeh other, nod neither wfll be r.onaldered. Emmons v, Oldham, 12 Tex. 26. In 11S11ignlng errors, 'the party
llhould put his finger upon the very error, Seawell v. Lowervt 16 Tex. l'>t. There should be no vagueness, 
Thompeon v. Thompson, 19 TEtx. 829. As nearly u practlcnb1e. Hlllcbnmt v. Brower, ti TC'x. 1',69, Thia
statute applies to appeala In cr1m1nal cuea. The State v. Cartwright, 10 Tex. 280. But 1100 CRnnw.u. Paocs­ 
J>UU, aeca. 189-748. 
§ 1591. (2940} (9] The appellant or plaintifff in error, shall in all
cases file with the clerk of the court below, an assignment of errors, dis­
tinctly specifying the grounds on which be relies, before he takes the tran­
script of the record from the clerk's office, and a copy of such assignment of
errors, shall be attached to and form a part of the record; and all errors not
so distinctly specified, shall be considered by the supreme court as waived* 
818. This secdon compared with 4th ond Mh seenone, H ntehtnson v. O'"m, 20 Tex. 288. It file
apJ)f'llants had flied their assignment or error In due time, upon tin<llng that the appellee hod prematuroly 
taltcn out the transcript, they might have obtained another tran8Clipt or the reoord, with their usi,imment
al error annexed thereto, and fill'<l the same In thla court. Id. Objections which go to the merits and toun•.l&­
tfon or the action, wlll be eonsldored, though not specially assi:rned 011 error. J-tankert v. Clow, lG Tl•X. 18 j 
Hollingsworth v. Holshousen, 17 Tex. 47, which Jut cue cites Wetmore v. Woodhouse, 10 Tu; 88, ana 
Salina& v. Wright, 11 Tex. l>i7, and Earle v. Thomas, 14 Tex. 5.58. Pettus v. Perry, 4 Tex. 488, which
quotes 2 Wend. l~; Gelston v. Hoyt. 18 Johns. 861; and Petty v. Clevelandh 2 Tex. 4@. Jones v. Black.
l Tex. M9, which eltes Jonea v. Lorillnrd. 16 Johns. 8-18, and other eaees. W ere the pialntiff' in error bad
lluled to aaalgn errors with the clerk. he wu permitted to withdraw tho reoord to 88Slgn errol'8. .And pend­ 
log the delay, the court retuaed to affirm on certificate. Faniuhar v. McFarland, 13 Tex. 98. But the wfth­
dr.wal mu.et be with the leave of the oourt, and the trarulcrlpt re-filed. Flanagan v. McCla.rty, 10 Tex. 281. 
§ 1592. (2941} [10] The first and fourth sections of '' An act to
amend sections ten, eleven, thirteen, and twenty-two, of an act to organize
the supreme court of the state of Texas," approved 12th May, A. D. 1846,
approved March 13th, 1848; and also, the tenth, eleventh, thirteenth, and
twenty-second sections of "An act to organize the supreme court of the
state of Texas," approved 12th May, A. D. 1846, shall be, and the same are 
hereby repealed. 
AN AC!' PBESCBmING TBB OBDBB OP DETERllINlNG OASES IN TBB
SUPBEHJI: COURT. 
( AN AC!' TO .AllEND THE FIRST SEcr:rON 01!' AN ACT ENTITLED " AN ACT
PRESCRIBING THE ORDBB 01!' DETEBKINnfG CA8JC8 IN THE SUPREME
COURT." APPROVED FEBRUARY '1TB, 1861. 
ABT. 1593. [l] The first section of the above recited act shall be so
amended as hereafter to read as follows, to wit :-(I) That the cases on the 
dockets of the supreme court shall be determined in the order in which they
stand upon the docket, or have been or may be submitted to the court,
except where continued by consent, or to make parties; or for the return of
any writ ; or in cases which have been heard by two of the judges only, and
they are unable to agree ; or in cases in which the court are unable to form
an opinion upon which a judgment can be entered, after investigating the
same a reasonable time. And whenever a case is thus passed over, it shall
be the duty of the chief justice to enter upon the docket the reason therefore,
and proceed with other cases upon the docket.] 
§ 1594. [2] This act shall not apply to criminal cases, nor shall it be
eonstrued to interfere with the setting apart particular times for the hearing
of causes from particular districts as heretofore. 
.A.I ACJr CONOBBNING CONTBSTBD .ELEcr:rONS OB' J'UDGES 011' Tlllil DIB'I'BIOT 
COURTS, 
ABT. 1595. fl] The record upon an appeal, or writ of error, taken from
the judgment ol any one of the district courts of this state, in any ca.i;ie in- 
volviug the contest of an election of any district judge, shall be made uo.
r • 
and the transcript for the supreme court 'Prepared, as soon as \lractica.ble,
and shall be returnable, forthwith, to the said supreme court, at either of the
three terms, held annually, without reference to which of said terms it
would be returnable, under the general law, in order that said appeal or writ
of error may be tried as speedily as possible by the said court, at the place
it may be holding its sessions at the time; or if not in session, or about to 
adjourn, at the session of said court next ensuing, wherever held : Pro­
vided, however, that any case which may be now pending in any county
from which causes generally are returned to the supreme court at Galveston,
shall be returned to the next term of said court, to be holden in the city of 
Austin. 
ABT. 1596. [2] The clerks of the district courts shall not allow either party
to control the record in any case of contested election, referred to in this
act, but shall transmit it as soon as completed to the clerk of the supreme
court, who shall expedite it to the proper term. On receipt of such record,
the supreme court shall allow reasonable time for argument, by brief and
otherwise, after which it shall proceed to dispose of the case, as entitled,
from its public character, to preference in time over ordinary cases, and the
trial and disposition of such cases shall proceed without reference to the
rules established by law, fixing the order in which particular districts, or the
causes from the same, shall' be taken up, tried, or decided ; the object of
this act being to require as speedy a trial and determination of such cases as
is consistent with justice. 
REPORTS AND LIBRARY. 
AN A.CT TO ENCOURAGE THE REPORTING OF THE DECISIONS OF THE
SUPREME COURT. 
§ 1597. [1] The governor is hereby authorized and required to sub­
scribe for three hundred copies of each succeeding volume of the reports of
the decisions of the supreme court, which shall be prepared under the
direction of said court, and for which the reporter of said decisions shall be
paid the sum of three dollars and a half per page for as many pages as shall
be contained in one copy of each volume, and the comptroller of public
accounts shall issue warrants for the same, uron the certificate of the secre­
tary of state, that said books, printed in smal pica type, the pages not less in
size than those of the reports already published, and neatly bound in law
sheep, have been deposited in his office, and specifying the number of pages
each volume contains. 
AN A.CT TO PROVIDE FOR THE PURCHASE OF AN ADDITIONAL SUPPLY OP.
THE TEXAS REPORTS. 
§ 1598. [11 The governor be, and he is hereby authorized and 
required to purchase for the state one hundred additional copies of each 
number of the Texas reports now issued, or such less number as can be had,
and also the like number of copies of each number of said reports that may
hereafter be issued, in addition to those now authorized by law: Provided,
such books can be purchased at a price not exceeding four dollars and fifty
cents per volume. 
AN A.CT TO PROVIDE BOOKS FOR THE USE OF THE SUPREME COURT. 
A.KT. 1599. [1] The secretary of state shall transfer to the control of the
judges of the supreme court, all law books and reports of the decisions of
the courts of the several states now in his office, and such as may hereafter 
be sent to his department by way of an interchange.
§ 1600. [2] The sum of fifteen thousand dollars be, and the same is 
hereby appropriated out of any mouey in the treasury not otherwise appro­
priated, and placed under control and management of the judges of the
supreme court, to be expended in the purchase of books for the use of the
supreme court. The books purchased to be kept at Austin, at Tyler, and at
Galveston, as the judges may direct and deem necessary to the investigation
of causes pending m the several branches of the supreme court. 
AN .ACT SUPPLEMENTARY TO A.N .ACT ENTITLED "AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOB
DISTRIBUTING THE REPORTS OF THE SUPREME COURT, THE I~WS OF THB 
STATE, A.ND THE JOURNALS OF THE LEGISLATURE." 
§ 1601. [I] It shall be the duty of the secretary of state to furnish the 
libraries or the supreme court, at each branch of said court, with such nnmber of copies of the reports of the supreme court of the state, of the public
and private Jaws of the state, of all digests or revisions of the laws of the 
state, published or subscribed for, by the state, and of digests of the decisions
of the supreme court of the state, subscribed for by the state, as will supply
each of the judges of said court, with one complete set of all of said books,
for use by them during the terms of said court, and one set for each of said
libraries, to remain therein, for general use. 

