Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and Houseof Repre
sentatives of the Re ublic of Terms,‘ in Congress assembled,
That the adoption o the common law shall not be-construed to
adopt the common law system of pleading, but the proceedings
in all civil suits shall, as heretofore, be conducted by petition and
answer; but neither petition nor answer shall be necessary in
a cause to recover money before a justice of the peace.
SEc. 2. Be 'itfu1't/ter enacted, That when asheriﬁ, or any
other oﬂicer legally authorized, may have a writ and petition,
subpoena, notice or other process whatsoever to be served on any
person, and such process shall not require the body of such per
son to be taken into custody for safe keeping, and the person on
whom the process may be required to be served, be not found at
his or her residence, it shall be lawful for the oﬂﬁcer to serve
such process by leaving a copy thereof at the residence of such
person, with some white member of his or her family ahove the
age of fourteen years.
SEc. 3. If the defendant do not appear either in person or
by attorney, on the second day of the term, and lile his answer,
the plaintifff may take a judgment by default against him.
SEc. 4. If three days after this ﬁrst judgment has been ren
dered, the defendent neither appears nor ﬁles his answer, a
deﬁnitive judgment will then be given for the plaintui‘, provided
he prove his demand as in all other cases.
SEc. 5. If the defendant on the very day when a deﬁnitive
Ijudgment was to have been recorded against him appear and
ﬁlebhis answer, the ﬁrst judgment taken shall be set aside.
_Str:c. _6;i Wgeg t(l11ef dprrgiridi is liqli)1i<1t-rttled agtlthprigveitrit by
wri mg ju omen y e au t na_ may e acen a - e rs errn
,of the cburt,Cif actual notice of the suit has been given -to the de
fendant.
SEc. 7. If the demand is unliquidated, and personal notice
has been given, judgment by default may be taken at the ﬁrst
term of the court, and a jury shall he immediately empannelled
..to assess the da.ma,ge to the plaintifff.
Sec. 8. If personal notice has not been given a judgment
by default shall not be taken before the secondhterm, of the court
in which the suit is brought.
SEc. 9. No plea in abatement shall be admitted or received
amless the party-offering the same shall prove the truth thereof,
by oath. or aﬂirmation as the case may require.
SEC. 10. The defendant, in all actions may plead as many
several matters whether of law or of facts as he shall think ne
cessary for his idefense. , '
Sec. 11. An execution, writ or other process appearing‘ to
be duly served in other respects, shall be deemed good, although
;it be not directed to any sheriﬁ
SEc. 12. In every civil suit in which suﬂicient matter of
substance may appear upon the petition, to enable the court to
roceed u on the merits of the cause the suit shall not abate for
P P i
- -‘want of form; the court shall, in the ﬁrst instance, endeavor to
try each cause by the rules and principles of law; should
-the cause more roperly belong to equity jurisdiction, the court
shall, without c clay, proceed to try the same according to the
principles of equity. The pleadings of every cause in the district,
or in any inferior court, shall be amended under the direc
tion of the court, but no amendment shall prevent a cause from
being tried at the same term at which it may be made, unless the
court shall be satisﬁed that such an amendment will operate as
a surprise to the opposing party. If the cause be in the supreme
court, the court shall decide the same as if there -had been no
defect of form, provided the record shall present sufﬁcient matter
of substance to enable the court to decide the cause upon its mer
its, provided that nothing herein contained shall be so construed
ii.S to prejudice the right of the parties to a trial by jury.
Sec. 13. By the exception of non-tenure of parcel of any
lands or tenements, for which any action or suit-1nay'bebrougl1t‘,..
the _writ shall not be abated, but for the quantity of the non-ten»
nre, which shall be zilledged, '
SEC. 14. When there are several counts, one of which is
faulty, and entire damages are given, the verdict shall be good,
but the defendant may apply to the court to instruct the jury to
disregard thefaulty count. '
SEc. 15. After issue joined in an ejectment ou-the title only,
no exception of form or substance shall be taken to the petition
in any court whatsoever;
Sec. 16. No judgment after the verdict of twelve men shall
be stayed or reversed for any defect of form.
SEc. 17. Where in the record of any judgment or decree of
any district court there shall be any mistake, miscalculation or
mis recital of any sum or sums of money, or of any name or names,
and there shall be among the records of the proceedings in the suit
in which such judgment or decree shall be rendered‘, any verdict,
bond, bill, note or other writing of the like nature or kind, where
by sueh judgment or decree may be safely amended, it shall be
the duty of the court in which such judgment shall be rendered,
and the judge thereof in vacation, to amend such judgment or
decree thereby, according to the very truth and justice of the case
Pr0vided,_.That the opposite party, his agent or attorney in fact
or at law, shall have had reasonable notice of the applicatioh for
such amendment, and if the transcript of such judgme-nt,_or- de
eree at the time of such amendment, or at any time thereafter shall
be removed to the supreme court, it shall be the duty of that court
upon inspection of such amended record to be brought before it by
6e1'l'i01'a1'i, if need be aﬂirm such judgment, if there be no other
error apparent on such record.
Sue. 18. Where any bond taken by virtue of any distress
for‘ rent or execution by miscalculation or mistake, shall be con
ditioned for a larger sum of money than by law ought to have
been required thereby, or where a-verdict shall be rendered for
more damages thanthe plaintifff shall have demandedby his suit,
and judgment shall be rendered accordingly, and the court in
which such judgment shall be rendered, shall have adjourned to
another term, without release of such excess having been made,
it shall be lawful for the plaintifff, at any time before the record
of such judgment shall be removed in an ap llate court at any
ﬁiture term of the court in which judgment s rall be rendered‘, to
release in open court any such excess; or he may in vacation
release the same by deed under his hand and seal. witnr-z<‘zedby
the elerkror. deputy. clerk of such court, and ﬁled or.‘ 1'ecor<i among‘
the papers of the cause, and such release, made in either of the
forms aforesaid, shall cure any error of such excess.
SEc. I9. If the record of any such judgment shall be re
moved in an appellate court before such a release shall be made,
it shall be competent for the defendant in error to make such re
lease as aforesaid in the appellate court, and thereupon 'the said
court after reversing the judgment, shall proceed to give such
judgment as the court below ought to have given, if the release
had been ﬁled therein.
SEc. 20. If any action be brought on a bond or other writing
ﬁled in any suit brought thereu on in any other court of this
Republic, it shall be sufﬁcient tor the plaintifff to ﬁle with his
petition, a copy of such bond or other writing, attested by the
clerk of the court in which the original may be ﬁled, and the de
fendant or defendants shall be obliged to plead thereto in like
manner as if the original bond or wnting was ﬁled, and such copy
shall be admitted as evidence on the trial; If however, the defen
dant or defendants shall plead and ﬁle an aﬂidavit under oath,
that the original bond or writing is not his, her or their deed, the
clerk of the court having such original papers in his custody, shall
on being summoned as a witness, attend with the same on trial of
the issue, for the inspection of the jury.
Sec. 21. In controversies‘ affecting lands, tenements or he
reditaments, possession of part shall not be construed as posses
sion of the whole, when any actual adverse- possession can be
proved.
SEc. 22. Interpreters may be sworn truly to interpret when
necessary.
Sec. 23. Papers read in evidence, though not under seal,
may be carried from the bar by the jury.
Sec. 24. Every person desirous of suffering a non-suit on
trial shall be barred therefrom, unless he do so before the jury
retire from the bar.
SEc. 25. New trials may hereafter be granted, as well when
the damages are manifestly too small as when they are excessive.
SeC. 26. Not more than two new trials shall be granted to
the same party in the same case.
SEc. 27. All vouchers, views, (Tl) essions, and also trials by
wager of battle, and wager by law, be and are hereby taken away
and repealed.
Sec. 28. In all actions of assault and battery and slander,
commenced and prosecuted in the district court, if the jury ﬁnd
under the sum of twenty dollars, the plaintifff in such case shall
not recover any costs.
Sec. 29. On all motions, the court may give or refuse costs,
at theirdiscretion, unless where it is otherwise provided by law.
SEec. 30. In all cases of law, except motions where judg
ment shall be given for the defendant or appellee, he shall recov
er his costs against the plaintifff or appellant, and have execution
for the same, and in all such cases where judgment shall be giv
en for the plaintifff or appellant, if not otherwise provided by law,
he shall recover his costs against the defendant or appellee and
have execution for the same.
Sec. 31. When any plea in abatement shall upon argument
in any court of law, be adjudged insuﬂicient, the plaintifff shall
recover full costs to the time of overruling the plea, and when
by any interlocutory judgment or any other part of the pleadings,
shall be judged insufﬁcient, all costs occasioned by such insufﬁ
cient pleading, shall be adjudged against him who committed the
fault. ‘
SEc 32. A fee of one dollar for each legal notice proved to
have been delivered in any cause, whether at law or equity, shall
be taxed in the bill of costs.
Spc. 33. All taxes imposed on law proceedings, shall be in
cluded in the bill of costs.
SEc. 34. The law of costs shall not be inter- preted as penal
laws.
Sac. 35. When any party may be dissatisﬁed with the de
cision of a cause in any inferior court of this Republic, and may
desire to appeal therefrom, such party shall have twenty days
after the term of the court at which such cause was tried, to ﬁle
the appeal bond required by law.
SEc. 36. In case the party be unable to give the appeal
bond required, such party may nevertheless appeal by giving
security for no more than the costs and damages of the appeal;
but in that case the judgment of the court below, shall operate
as a lien upon all the property of the appellant, and the sheriﬁ
shall take possession of his personal property, and keep possession
of the same, or so much thereof as will be suﬂicient to satisfy the
judgment of the appellate court, during the proceeding of the
appeal unless the appellate should execute a bond made payable
to the appellee, with at least one good and suﬂicieut security
(whose solvency is to be judged by the sherifl",) conditioned that
such personal property shall be fortheoming to be sold in satis
faction, or part satisfaction of the judgment that may be rendered
by the appellate court.
Sec. 37. The appellant at the hearing of the cause in the
court of appeals, shall furnish to each of the judgeswho may sit
to hear the same, a true copy of the report of the facts agreed on
or certiﬁed by the judge of the court below, and the facts shall
be agreedon by the adverse parties or their attornies or certiﬁed
by the judge before the rising of the court below.
_ DAVID S. KAUFMAN,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Approved February 5th, 1840.
DAVID G. BURNET,
President of the Senatef
MIRABEAU B. LAMAR.
AN ACT
Concerning ’E.recun'ons.
SEc. 1. Be it enacted by tle Senate and House of Repre
sentatives of the Republic of Texas, in Congress assembled,
That from and -after the rising of every court it shall be the duty
of the clerk thereof to tax the costs of suit in every case incurred
by the successful party, and for which judgment shall be rendered,
and issue execution, and endorsing on each execution issued, the
several items contained in the bill of costs, in intelligible words
and ﬁgures.
SEc. 2. Be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty
of the clerks of the several courts of this Republic to keep an
execution docket, in which shall be entered the names of cases,
the time at which execution issued, the amount therefore, to whom
and when delivered, and the returns which may be made thereon
by the sheriff, or such oﬂicer as may receive the execution, which
said docket shall be subject to the inspection of any person inter
ested at any time when required, and anyclerk who shal( fail to
keep such a docket, or shall neglect to make the entries, s 1all be
liable to a ﬁne of one hundred dollars, to be recovered by the
party complaining by motion before the court, ﬁve days previous
notice being given thereof.
SEc. 3. Be it further enacted, That should the defendant
in ariy-judgment of the court be about to leave the county in
which judgment may be rendered, and before rising of the court,
the court shall order execution to be immediately issued, upon an
aﬂidavit being made and ﬁled with the court of that fact.
SEec. 4. Be it further enacted, That all Executions shall
be made returnable at the next term of the court and the defend
ant or his agent in all cases shall have the right to designate the
property, and if the defendant shall fail or refuse to designate the
same, then the levy shall be made in the following manner: First
on personal or moveable property, then on uncultivated lands,
then on slaves, and lastly on the improved lahds or home-stead
of the defendant, provided that in no case shall the execution be
sent out of the county where judgment is obtained, unless there
is not suﬂicient property within the limits of the same to satisfy
the amount of the judgment, interest and costs.
SEc. 5. Be itfurther enacted, That whenever any roperty
shall have been seized by virtue‘ of an execution, it sha l be the
duty the sheriff or other ofﬁcer to advertise the same, if it be
personal property, at least ten days, by advertising the same at
three public places in the county, one of which shall be the place
where the property is sold, if it be slaves or lands, twenty days,
by publication in some newspaper, if there be any published in
the county, and also by advertisements posted up, one at the
court house of the county, provided that all sales of lands and
negroes shall be made at the court house door of the county in
which the sales take place, on the ﬁrst Tuesday, or the following
day of the month, between the hours of ten o’clock A. M., and
sundown; and provided further, that all other property may be
sold on the premises where it is seized in execution.
SEc. 6. Be it further enacted, That if on the sale of the
property, more money is received than is suﬂicient to pay the
amount of the execution, or executions in the hands of the sheriff
or other ofﬁcer, the surplus shall be immediately paid over to the
defendant, his agent or attorney.
Sec. 7. Be it further enacted, That whenever an execu-'
tion is levied upon property, the defendant shall have the right
to retain the possession of the same, upon giving bond with good
security, payable to the plaintifff in double the amount of debts
and costs, conditioned for the delivery of the property to .the
plaintifff on the day of sale.
SEc. 8. Be it further enacted. That if the defendant shall
‘fail to deliver the property so bonded, it shall be the d-uty of the
sheriff to return the bonds to the clerk of thecourt, from which
execution issued as aforesaid; whereupon said clerk shall‘ issue
execution against the principal and sureties on the bond for the
amount of the debt and costs, upon which said execution, no
delivery bond shall be taken; which fact shall be enﬂprsed by
lthe clerk on the execution.
SEc. 9. Be itfurther enacted, That it shall be the duty of
ithe sheriff to endorse on the execution the day on which it came
‘into hishands, and if he received more than one on the same -day
-and against the same person, he shall number them as received,
-'-and -on failure he shall be liable to pay twenty per cent. on the
amount of the execution, together with such damages as the
plaintifff in execution may sustain by such failure to number; to
be recovered by the .-plaintifff from him and his sureties, by giving
ﬁve days notice that a motion will be made to this purpose -at the
next term .-of the-court from which the execution issued.
SEc. 10. Be it further‘ enacted, That should any sheriff,
or other oﬂicer, fail or refuse to pay money collected under an
execution, when demanded by the person entitled to receive the
same, he shall be liable to pay ten per cent. per month on the
amount so collected, besides interest and costs which may be
recovered of him and his sureties, by motion before the court from
which said execution issued; ﬁve days previous notice being
'0‘lV6I1.
SEc. 11. Be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty
of the sheriff to keep securely all property levied on by him for
whichtno delivery bond has been given, and if any loss should
result to any party interested by his negligence, he shall be liable
to pay the value of the property so lost, and ten per cent. damages
thereon, to be recovered by the party injured, before any court of
competent jurisdiction; ﬁve days previous notice thereof being
0‘lV€I1.
SEc. 12. Be it further enacted, That whenever ﬁnal jud
ment shall be rendered by the supreme, district or county courts
-of this Republic it shall operate as a lien on all the property of
the defendant, situated and being in the same county where judg
ment is rendered, from the day of the date of the judgment,
provided that said lien shall cease to operate, if execution be not
issued out within twelve months from the date thereof, and due
diligence be not used to collect the same.
SEc. 13. Be it further enacted, That when judgment shall
be obtained before the supreme, district, county or justices court
of this Republic, for any debt or damages, and the person against
whom such judgment shall be obtained shall not have suﬂicient
property within the county where the judgment shall be rendered
to satisfy theexecution of the plaintifff, it shall be lawful to issue
execution, directed to the sheriff or other legal oﬂﬁcers of any
county in -this Re ublic where the defendant may have property,
which said sheriﬁpor other oﬂicer to whom said execution may
be directed, is hereby empowered and required to serve and exe
-cute the same, and shall -make return thereof to the court where
the judgment was rendered.
Sec. I4. Be it further enacted, That, whenever a judg“
ment shall have been rendered by any court of this Republic, if
the plaintifff, his agent or attorney shall make aﬂidavit before the
court or the clerk thereof in which Judgment was obtained,- that
t-he defendant or defendants hath or have no property within the
knowledge of such aﬂiant, in his or their possession, and that such
aﬂiant has just reason to believe that another person or persons is
or are indebted to said defendant ordefendtants, or hath or have
effects of such defendant or defendants in his or her hands, it shall
be lawful for the court or the clerk to cause the person or per
sons supposed to' be indebted to, or supposed to have any effects
of said defendant or defendants to appear at the next term of such
court as gamishee or garnishees, and said court shall examine
and proceed against said garnishee or garnishees in the same
manner as prescribed by law against garnishees in original at
tachments.
SEc. 15. Be it further enacted, That when the day of
sale shall have arrived, it shall be the duty of the clerk of the
district court, or-in his absence, the Chief Justice of the county
court, or in his absence the clerk of the county court, or in his
absence, some justice of the peace, at the request of the sheriff,
coroner or constable, to appoint three discreet, disinterested men,
citizens and freeholders of the county, to appraise the property
levied on by virtue and authority of an execution, which ap
praisers shall be sworn by the sheriiﬂ coroner or constable, or by
any oﬂicer authorized to administer an oath, and shall assess the
value of the property taken under execution at its fair cash price,‘
which assessment shall be reduced to writin , signed by the ap
praisers or a rnaiority-of them, and be return with the execution,
Sec. 16. Be it further enacted, That the property levied
on shall then be oﬂ'ered- for sale- for cash, to the highest bidder,
and if the property be improved lands or slaves, it must bring
two thirds of the appraised value or no sale shall be made for
cash, but any other species of property may be sold if the highest
bid‘ amounts to one-half the iappraisement.
Sec. 17. Be it further enacted, That if the highest bid
does not amount to two-thirds of the appraised value in cash, the
sheriff, coroner or other oﬂicer shall then advertise the same a<.:ain‘
for the ensuing sale day, if practicable, and that the same Qiall
be sold t0 the highest bidder forwhat it may bring, on a credit
of twelve months, bearing the same rate of interest as that recov
ered on the judgment, and the purchaser shall be required to give
bond with two good securities for the payment of the purchase
money; which bond shall be returned with the execution to the‘
court from which the same issued; shall be a mortgage on the
property purchased, and shall have the force ‘and effect of a
judgment, upon which execution may issue without any oth
entormulity against the principal and securities to the same,
if the same be not punctually paid, and by virtue of this exe
cution the property ﬁrst sold, or any other property belong
ing to the principal and sureties may be seized and. sold for
cash without any appraisement, and upon this execution the
clerk shall endorse that no delivery bond or security whatever
shall be taken.
SEC'. 18. Be ttfurt/zer enacted, That if any person shall
bid off property at any sale made by virtue of an execution,
and shall fail to comply with the terms of the same, he shall be
liable to pay to the plaintifff or plaintifffs in execution, twenty
per cent on the value of the property thus bid oﬁ', besides costs to
be recovered before the court whence the execution issued by mo
tion, ﬁve days previous notice being given to him or her that
such motion will be made, and should the property on a sec
ond sale bring less than on the former, he shall be liable to pay
to the defendant in execution, all loss which he sustains thereby,
to be recovered as above in this section.
Sec. 19. Be it further enacted, That when the terms of
the sale shall not be complied with by the bidder, the sheriff shall
proceed to sell the property again on the same day, if there be
suﬂicient " time, but if not, he shall readvertise the same for
the§next succeeding regular day of sale.
SEc. 20. Be it further enacted, That when the property
is sold on a credit of twelve months, if the proceeds is more
than sufﬁcient to pay the execution, interests and costs, the
purchaser shall also execute a bond as provided in the
section of this act, payable to the defendant in execution, for the
excess on which the same summary remedy may be had as is
provided in favor of plaintifff in execution, and the property
may be seized and sold in like manner.
SEec. 21. Be it further enacted, That when a sale has been
made and the terms complied with by payment of the price on
executing the contemplated bond, the sheruﬁ', coroner or con
stable shall ‘make and deliver to the purchaser a conveyance of
all the right, title, interest or claim which the defendant in
execution had in and to the property sold.
SEc. 22. Be it further enacted, That justices of the peace
shall have power, and they are hereby authorized to issue execu
tions against lands and tenements as well as goods and chattels,
and when such execution shall be levied upon 1211118 and_ tene
rnents, the same proceedings shall be had thereon as provided
for executions in the hands of sheriffs by this act; but when
levied upon goods and chattels, the same proceedings shall be,had
thereon as now required by law, adhering nevertheless to the
mode of advertising prescribed in this act.
SEc. 23. Be it further enacted, That “Executions” (exe
cutors?) administrators and guardians shall observe and -be-gov
erned, so far as it relates to the mode of advertising their sales,
by the provisions of this act, and executors, administrators
and guardians shall have the beneﬁt of this law tgainst per
sons who bid off property and do not comply with the terms
of sale.
SEc. 24. Be it further enacted, That all laws and parts
of laws heretofore passed on the subject of executions be and the i
same are hereby repealed.

