the court before joining issue, on oath or affirmation in relation to the facts in the case.

Sac. 3. That in all suits, either party have a right to
call on the adverse party for their testimony, the same as
other witnesses.

SEC. 4. It shall be required of all persons going to
,law, to file all their notes and accounts that. are due, as
"provided by this act; and on their failing or refusing to
do the same, shall for ever be deprived of the power of
collecting such claims.

._ SE0. 5. That nothing in this act shall prevent agents
t-or attorneys from planting suits, or defending ‘suits; but
at the same time they shall give all the information they
have, in relation to the amount so filed, on oath or afiirmation.

SEC. 6. That on all judgments rendered'by any of the
’courts in this Territory, the stay of execution shall be had
by the defendant or defendants givingjsecurity'for the pay“ment of debt and cost, to the acceptance of the court,
or the plaintifff; the request to stay execution shall be made
known on day of trial, and security given within five days
from the time judgment is rendered. ,

SEC. 7. That all sums of twenty dollars and under,
“mag be staid thirty days; all sums over twenty dollars
an not to exceed fifty dollars, may be staid sixty days ;
_all sums over fifty dollars and not to exceed one hundred
dollars may be staid ninety days ; all sums over one hundred dollars may be staid six months. _

y SEC. 8. That at the eXpiration of the stay of any exefécution, if not satisfied, it shall be the duty of the court to
issue an execution, for the property of the defendant, or
defendants, and in all cases the security to stay an execution shall be considered one of the defendants; but in all
cases the property of the principal, shall first be taken and

eXposed to pay the debt.
Approved March 3rd, 1852.

AN ACT FOR THE REGULATIQN OF ATTORNEYS.

SEC. 1. Beitenacted by the Governor and Legislatwe As-l
senany of the Territory of Utah, That the right of being”,
heard by self or counsel shall not be denied to any person, claiming a trial as plaintifff, or defendant, in any
court in this Territory; and it shall be the duty of all
Judges of courts in this Territory, to grant a hearing as
counsel to any person of good moral character, chosen by:
any person or persons to. prosecute or defend a case, in}
which he, she, or they, are a party. ‘

SEC. 2. No person or persons, employing counsel in:
,any of the courts of this Territory, shall be compelled by:
any process of law to pay the counsel so employed, for
any services rendered as counsel, before or after, or during the process of trial in the case.

31910.3. It shall be the duty of the Judges of all courts:
in this Territory, to forbid and prevent all indecent and:
exciting language and behavior in their courts; and in"
case of a rebuke to counsel being disregarded, and resented by said counsel, it shall be the duty of the Judge
giving such rebuke, to nullify the right to plead of such
counsel, and to take measures to prohibit him from being:l
heard as counsel in any court of this Territory, until such,‘
time as satisfaction has been given for his good conduct:
in future. And it 'shall further be his duty to impose a
fine not exceeding one hundred dollars, on such Counselc
as he may deem just; and he may commit said counsel tob

prison during the term of the court then being holden. p

Sec. 4. It shall be the duty of the Executive odicersE
of all courts in this Territory, to arrest without process;
and put 'in safe keeping all persons, whether counsel or“
other emcers of courts, or persons within the hearing of
such courts, who shall intany way behave indecently or
riotouly, or use indecen‘, riotous or exciting language,
subject to the release or action of the Court, in which such
arrest is made; and such Executive oilicers may call for
such assistance as may be necesary in making such arrest, and for the safe keeping of such person, or persons
so oifending. 81w. 5. Any Attorney, or person otherwise assuming“

'to appear before any court in this Territory in any cause
whatever, shall present all the facts in the case, whether
they are calculated to make against his client or not, of
which he is in possession, and shall present the best evidence that he can in the case to the intent. that the true
state of the casein litigation may be presented before the
court, and for a failure to do so, or to comply with all the
requirements of this act, shall be liable to all the penalty
hereinbefore provided fer, and the further penalty of not
less than one dollar at the discretion of the court.

' Approved Feb. 18th, 1852.

AN ACT IN RELATION TO MARSHALS ANDTATTORNEYS.

‘ SE0. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Uta/2., That a Marshal shall
be elected by a joint vote of both Houses of the Legislaa,tive Assembly, whose term of oil‘ice shall be four years,
unless sooner removed by the Legislative Assembl , or
until his successor is» elected and qualified. Said ar—
shal shall, before entering upon the, duties of his oilice,
take an oath of office, and file bonds with securities in the
penal sum of not exceeding twenty thousand dollars, conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties, which bond,
with securities, is to be approved by the Secretary of the
Territory, and filed in his office.

See. 2. Said Marshal shall have power to appoint one
or more deputy Marshals, in each Judicial District of the
Territory, as the necessity of the case may require, whose
:term of oilice shall ex ire with that of the Marshal; but
they may at any time c removed at his discretion.

_ Sea. 3. It shall be the duty of the Marshal, or any
of his deputies, to execute all orders, or processes of the
Supreme or District Court, in all cases arising under the
laws of the TerritOry, and such other duties as the executive may direct, or may be required by law pertaining to
the duties of his oHiee.

Sun. 4. An Attorney General shallbe elected by the
joint vote of the Legislative Assembly, wheee term of
oEce shall be four years, unless sooner removed by. the
Legislative Assembly, or until hi successor is elected and
qualified, and shall, before entering on the duties of his
office, take an oath of oiiice, and give bonds and security
to the people of the Territory, conditioned for the faithful
performance of his duty, to be approved by the Secretatary of the Territory and filed in his office.

Sac. 5. It shall be the duty of the Attorney General
to keep his oilice at the seat of Government, to attend to
all legal business on the part of the Territory, before the
courts, where the Territory is a party, and prosecute individuals accused of crimes in the Judicial District in which
he keeps his office, in cases arising under the laws of the
Territory, and such other duties as pertain to his office.

SEC. 6. There shall be elected for each Judicial Dis-p
trict (except the one in which the Attorney General keeps1
his oHice) a District Attorney by the joint vote of both

Houses of the Legislative Assembly, who shall hold his
odice for four years. unless sooner removed by the Legislative Assembly, or until his successor is elected and qualified, and shall, before entering on the duties of his office,
take an oath of edice, and give bonds to the people of the
Territory, conditioned for the faithful performance of his
duties, to be approved by the Secretary of the Territory,
and filed in his office.

Sec. 7. It shall be the duty of the District Attorneys}
to attend tolegal business before the Courts in their respective districts, where the Territory is a party; prosecute
individuals accused of crimes, in cases arising under the
laws of the Territory, and do such other duties as pertain to their office.

Sec. 8. A Prosecuting Attorney shall be appointed by
the Probate Judge in each organized county in this Territory, whose term of odice shall be four years, unless sooner removed by the Probate Judge, or until his successor
Is appointed and qualified, whose duty it shall be to attend
to all legal business in the county, in which the Territory
l8 9. party, and prosecute before the Probate Court of his
county, all indinduals accused of crimes. Said Attorneys

shall, before entering upon the duties of their respective
odices, take an oath of ohice, and give bonds with securities, conditioned for the faithful erformance of their du.
pties, to be approved by the cler of the Probate Court,
and filed in his oiiice. Approved March 3, 1852'.

AN ACT IN RELATION TO WRITS 0F HABEAS
CORPUS.

SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah, That the petition for
m'the Writ of Habeas Cor us must be in writing, and be
sworn to, and signed by t e prisoner, or some person, on
his, her, or their behalf, setting forth the facts concerning
his, her, or their imprisonment, and in whose custody, he,
she, or they are detained, and shall be accompanied by' a
copy of the warrant or warrants of commitment, or an affidavit that the said copy had been demanded of the person
or persons in whose custody the prisoner or prisoners are
detained, and by him or them refused, or neglected to be
given.

SEC. 2. Upon the presentation of the foregoinlgI etition to any court having jurisdiction, the writ of abeas
Corpus shall be awarded, unless it shall appear from the
petition itself, or the documents annexed, or the showing
of the petitioner, the party so applying would not be end
titled to any relief.

SEC. 3. The Writ of Habeas Corpus may be allowed
by the Supreme, District, or Probate Court, or any Judge
thereof, and may be served in any part of the Territory.

Sac. 4 Application for this writ must be made to the
court or Judge most convenient in point of distance to the
applicant, and the more remote court, or Judge, if applied
to for the writ, may refuse the same, unless a suHicient
reason he adduced in the petition for not making the application to the more convenient court, or Judge.

Sac. 5-. When the writshall be awarded, it shall-appear under the seal of the court issuing the same, or if it
be issued by any Judge it shall be signed by him, and
shall be substantially in the following words, to wit:
Territory of Utah. To the Marshal, or sheriff, or. other;

County of oEcer,or to A.B.,( as the case may be, )‘

You are hereby commanded to have the body of C. D.
by you detaine as alleged before the court, or before
me E- F , Judge dvc., (as the case may be,) at—-——on—————— or forthwith, after being served with this
writ to be dealt with accordin to law, and to abide such

order as the court or Judge s all make in the premises,
and have you then and there, this writ, with a return of
your doings in the premises.

 

Sire. 6. When the writ is disallowed, the courtor J udgel
shall cause the reasons of aid disallowance to be appen-c

ded to the-petition, and returned to the person applying
for the writ. '\\

SEC. 7. To the intent that no 'oiiicer, sheriff, jailor,
constable, or other person, or (persons whatsoever, upon
whom such writ hall be serve , may pretend ignorance
thereof, such writ or copy thereof, shall be endorsed with}
the following words: “By the Habeas Corpus Ac ,” and(
all persons upon whom such, writs shall be served, holding
said prisoner or prisoners shall make return of such writ,
and shall bring or cause to be brought, the body or bodies
of such person, or persons, before the court or Judge issuing said writ according to the requirements of the same.

Sac. 8. Whenever the court or Judge, authorized to,
grant this writ, has evidence that any person within the ju-i
risdiction of such court or Judge is unjustly imprisoned, or‘
restrained of his liberty, it is the duty of such court or
Judge to issue, or cause to be issued, the writ as aforesaid, though no application be made therefore. ' SEC. 9. The writ may be served by the odicer, or by:
any other person appointed for that purpose b the court.
or Jud e, by whom it is issued or allowed. I served by‘
any ot er person than the officer, he possesses the same
power, and is liable to the same penalty for a non-performance of his duty as though he were the oiiicer.

SIC. 10. The proper mode of service is by leaving the

 writ with the defendant, or personholding or detaining such plaintifff or prisoner, and preserving a copy,
on which to make the return of service.

Sac. 11. If the defendant cannot be found; or if he
have not the plaintifff in custody, the service shall be made
.upon any person having the plaintifff in custody, in the
same manner and with the same effect as though he had
been made defendant therein. ,

Sac. ~12. If the defendant conceal himself, or refuse
admittance to the person attempting to serve the writ; or
'if he attempt wrongfully to carry the person out of the
county Or Territory after the service of the writ as aforesaid,
the officer or the person who is attempting to serve, or who
has served the writ, as above contemplated, is authorized
to arrest the defendant, or other person so resisting, and
bring him or them together with the plaintifff forthwith
before the odicer or court before whom the writ is made
returnable. In order to make such arrest the officer or
other person having the writ, possesses the same power to
execute the same as is given to a sheriff for the arrest of
a person charged with felony.

Sec. 13. The writ of Habeas Corpus must not be disobeyed for any defect of form or mis-description of the
'plaintifff or defendant: Provided, enough is stated to show
the meaning and intent of the writ. Service being made‘
in any mode, the defendant must appear at the proper time
and place, and answer the petition: He must also bring
the body of the plaintifff, or show good cause for 'not doing
so; to get possession of a plaintifff’s person, when there is
no person appearing to have aim in chage or custody; the
same power is iven to the odicer or per having the writ,
as is 'ven to s eriii' for the arrest of a per-son charged
with elony. o

81:0. 14. A willful failure to comply with the requisitions of this act, renders the defendant or offending5 party,
liable to be attached for a contem t, and to be imprisoned
till a compliance is obtained, an also subjects him to a
forfeiture of one thousand dollars to the party thereby aggrieved '

Bus. ’15 .The defendant in his answer must state plainly and unequivocally, whether he then has, or at any time‘
has had the plaintifff under his control and restraint, and
if so, the cause thereof. If he has transferred him, he
must state the fact, and to whom, and the time thereof, as
well as the reason or authority therefore.

SEO. 16 Any Judge, whether acting individually, or,
as a member of the court, who wrongfully and willfully re-t
fuses to award such writ whenever proper application for
the same is made, shall forfeit and pay the sum of one thousand dollars, which may be recovered by an action of debt
for the use of the Territory; and may be imprisoned for a
term not exceeding one year

SEC. 17. Until the suiliciency of the cause of restraint:
is determined, the defendant may retain the plaintifff in:
his ustody, and may use all necessary and proper means
for that purpose.

See. 18. The plaintiE in writing, or by his Attorney]
may waive his right to be present at the trial, in whichl
ease the proceedings may be had in his absence The
writ.- in such cases will be modified accordingly. If no
suilicient, just legal cause of detention is shown, the plaintiE must be discharged.

SEC. 19. Upon the return of any writ of Habeas Cor—l
-pus, the court or judge, shall, after having given suliicient
notice, proceed in a summary manner to settle the said
facts, by hearing the testimony and arguments, as well of
all parties interested civily if any there be, as of the prisoner or prisoners; and the persdn or persons who hold
him, her, or them in custody, and shall dispose of the
prisoner or prisoners, as the case may require, in all
cases where the imprisonment is for a criminal offense,
and there is not sufficient cause for discharge; and although the commitment may have been iniformally made,
or without due authority, or the process may have been
executed by a person not duly authorized, the court may
make a new commitment, or admit the party to bail if the

case be bailable.

SEC. 20. Disobedience to any order of discharge or1
attempt to elude the ervice of the writ of HabeasCorpus,§
or to avoid the effect thereof, subjects the defendant to a

he of one thousand dollars, and imprisonment for the
term of one year; and any person knowingly aiding and
abetting in any such act, shall be subject to the like puné
ishment.

r- Sac. 21. Any officer refusing to deliver a copy of any
legal process by which he detains the plaintifff in custody,
to any person who demands such copy, for the purpose of
taking out a writ of Habeas Corpus, shall forfeit not exceeding two hundred dollars to the person so detained.

81:0. 22. All persons admitted to bail on Habeas Corpus, shall enter recognizance with suiiicient sureties, in
such sum as the court shall direct, having regard to the
circumstances of the laintid', and the nature of the offense, conditioned for is, her, or their appearance at the
next term of the court to be holden in the county where
the offense was committed, or where the same is to be
tried. And all material witnesses shall also be required
to enter recognizance to a pear at the same time and
place, and not depart there rom without leave. All such
papers must be filed in the clerk’s office, where the same
is made returnable.

Sec. 23. The recovery of any penalties incurred by
reason of the provisions of this act, shall be no bar to a
civil suit for damag s.

e
Approved Feb. 2d, 1852.

AN ACT GOVERNING WRITS OF ATTACHMENT
‘ AND CAPIAS.

SE0. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah, That when any person
or persons, shall file an aiiidavit in any of the courts of
this Territory, that some person or persons are about to
leave the county or Territory, removing their effects with
the intention, he believes of defrauding his, her, or their
creditors, and that such person or persons are indebted to
him, her, or them, either by note or book account, and are

A ‘I

about to leave without paying the same, the court shall is.
sue a writ of Attachment upon the goods, chattels, and efq
f ects. of such person or persons, and Such goods chattelsl
and effects shall be held to pay the debt and cost; if, upon a
trial, judgment shall be rendered against the defendant.
The writ'of Attachment may be directed to any and all
persons that shall be owing the said defendant when there
is not sufiicient property found to satisfy the debt and cost;
and any such person so notified or served withan Attachment shall be considered garnisheed,and said indebtedness
shall be held liable for the debt of the defendant until the
same shall be satisfied.

Sac. 2. In all cases of Attachment, bail may be taken”
to the satisfaction of the court for debt and cost; and in
case bail is given, the prOperty shall be free from the Attachment. The court, on issuing an Attachment, shall
notify the person whose goods are attached. of a set time
and place for trial.

SEC. 3. y In case an Attachment shall be obtained from!)
any court, and upon trial, no judgment shall be‘ found for!"
the plaintifff, the defendant whose goods have been attached, may recover by law all the damage, he may have sustained by such Attachment.

Sac. 4. Capias may be served on any person not a0
householder: Provided, That any person shall not be held
With Capias, more than fortyeight hours without trial.
Capias may also be served on any person while in the act of
leaving the county or Territory.

SEC. 5. When any person or persons shall have left;
the Territory, or shall not be a resident of the Territory.ml
leaving behind him debts unpaid, if such person or per-2:
sons have preperty within the Territory, it may be lawful“
for such creditors to sue out a writ of Attachment against‘
such absent debtor, his goods, chattels, and effects, dues
and demands. And all such property, dues, and demands,
shall be held to pay all the debts such debtor shall have

left unpaid, if upon a trial a judgment shall be had against
the defendant.

Approved, March 3d, 1852.

AN ACT CONCERNING WRITS OF REPLEVIN.
Susi“! .‘ Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Uta/z, That when any person
lor persons shall have any species of property in his, her,
_°"or their possession, and such property shall be claimed by
some other person or persons, and he demanded by such
other person or persons; and if not given to the party or
persons that have made the demand, the party demanding may file an affidavit, giving good security to the 0pposit‘e party for costs and damages before any Justice of
the Peace within the county, where such prOper ty may be
situated, or other court having jurisdiction, or such person or party holding such property may be found, (or
wnere he, she, or they may reside,) the affidavit shall
state that he, she, or they are the rightful owner of such
property, describing the same, and in Whose possession it
may be found, the court or Justice shall issue a writ, directed to the Sheriff or Constable, or other oiiicer.

SEC. 2. Such Sheriff or Constable. or other oilieer, .
.shall serve such writ of Replevin, and the officer shall
_ execute such writ by taking into his custody all such property that is specified in the writ, and safely keep the same
until a decree of 'court shall be had thereon; the officer
shall deliver all such property to the person or party in
whose favor the decree of the court shall have been made.

SEC .3 In all cases, the defendant‘shall have the right
Vto give good and sumcient bail to the court issuing a
ywrit of Replevin, conditioned for the payment for all dam—
ages and costs, and when bail is extended, the defendant
may retain the property replevied until a decision of
court shall be had, when it shall be delivered. to the per—
son in whose favor the decision of the court shall be given. In case the defendant shall not‘give bail as herein
provided for, the plaintifff may, by givmg bonds with.securities approved by the court, for all costs and damages
that may accrue, take into his possession the property in
dispute, and retain the same until a decree of court shall
be had thereon.

'; SEC. 4. A Justice of the Peace may issue a writ for
the replevy of property, and try all cases of Replevin,
where the amount of property in dispute shall not exceed

A ‘I

one hundred dollars; where the amount in dispute shall"
exceed that sum, he shall transmit a copy of 1118 proceed:
ings in issuing said writ, to a hi her court, who shall try';
all such cases, the same as if t e writ had been issued

from that respective court.
Approved March 3d, 1852.

AN ACT IN RELATION TO WRITS OF EJECT»
MENT.

Sac. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah, That where any land, or
lands, house, buildings or- anypremises have been let, leas'
ed,or contracted for a term,and at the exPiration of the contract, the lessee refuses to yield up the possession to the
lessor, in such case the lessor may enter complaint inI
writing of the same, stating in substance the facts of they
case on oath, before any court having jurisdiction; and;1
the court shall issue a writ against the lessee, requiring
the lessee to yield up said premises within twelve days:
from the date of said writ, giving ten days notice from"
service by copy delivered, or left at the place of abode of
the lessee, or at a day to be named in the writ to appear
before said court to show cause why the said premises are
so retained. And the said court shall, on hearing the
case, and allegations of the parties within three days there:after, render a judgment in the case. If it ‘be for the les~I
see to yield the possession, he shall be required to do so'
within five days-from the time of the rendering of said
judgment, and shall be held for the costs of suit and damages. And should the lessee refuse or neglect to comply
with said judgment in yielding possession, the lessor may‘
compel by writ of ejectment the required possessisn forth-.
with. Soc. 2-. Wherever any person or persons shall be in
possession of a house, farm, or parcel of land; and such
house, farm, or. parcel of land 3 all be claimed as proviq
ded for by this act, the party claiming hall be entitled toil

dis- A


