AN ACT

To Regulate Proceedings in Civil Cases in the Courts of Justice of this Territory, and to Repeal certain Acts and Parts
of Acts. ‘

_ TITLE I. .
Of'the Form of Civil Aotiomand the Parties thereto.

SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah: That there shall be in 1
this Temtory but one form of civil action for the enforcement
or protection of private lights, and the redress or prevention
of private wrongs. ' r

. SEC. 2. In such action the party compr shall be .
known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant. J

SEC. 3. hen a question of fact, not put in issue by the
pleadings, is to be tried by order for the trial may be i
made, stating distinctly an p ' y the question of fact to be
tried and such order shall be the only authority necessary for
a tri . , a 4
SEC. 4. Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of

the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in this
Act. . I

SEC. 5. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action,
the action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any setoff or other defense, existing at the time o , or before notice of
the assignment; but this Section shall not a plyto a negotiable
promissory note or bill of exchange, trans erred in good faith,
and upon good consideration, before due.

SEC. 6. An executor, or administrator, or trustee of an
express trust, or a person exPressly authorized by statute, may
sue without joining with him the rson or us for whose
benefit the action is prosecuted. trustee c an express trust,
within the, meaning of ' this Section, shall be construed to
include a rson with whom, or in whose name, a contract is

made for t e benefit of another. - a - - . '
. SEC. 7. When a married woman isa‘ , her husband
shall be joined with-her; except that: ' When the aetion
concerns her separate property, she may sue alone. Second—

When the action is between herself and her husband, she may
sue or be sued alone. n " '

.SEc. 8. . If a husband and wife be sued together, the wife
may defend for her own right?

Site. 9. When at 'mino'uvris a part , he shall appear by
guardian, who ma be appointed b the Court in which the
action 1s prosecute , Grit-2; aJud t ereof. ,‘

. SEC. 10. The gua 'an‘ .shal be appointed as follows:
Fll‘St—.WhCIl the minor is plaintifff, upon the application of
the minor, 1f he be of the age of fourteen years; or, if under
that age, upon the applicatlon of a relative or friend of the
minor. .Second—When the minor 'is, defendant, ‘upon the
ap hcatlon of the minor, if he be of the age of fourteen years,
an a ply w1thin ten days after the service of the summons;
If he e under .the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then
upon the a phcation of anyxother party to the action, or of a
relative or nend of the miter“. \ j,

SEO. 11. A father, or in‘case of his death or desertion of
his family, the mothen, may maintain an action for the injury
(1)11; deathlof a child; and a guardian’for the injury or death of

swar. , _. WW _ _

SEC. 12. All persdns‘ having an'interest in the subject of
the action, and in *obtainihgfjthe'_ relief demanded, may be
Eined as plaintifffs, except when otherwise provided in this

ct. ‘W .'    '* * '
SEC; 13.“ 'Any person may. be a defendant, who has, or
claims, an interest in the controversy, adverse to the plaintifff,
or who is a necestary party'to‘a’? complete determination or
settlement of: the question involved therein. '

SEQ.‘ 14. Of the) 'artiee-tb the‘action, those who are united
in interest shall'be 'j medias! laintifi's, or defendants; but if
the consent of any one, “ should- have been joined 'as'
plaintifff, cannot be obtained,” heimay‘ be made a defendant, the
reason thereof being stated in the complaint; and when the
question is one of a cemmonipr- general Interest, of many ersons, or when the parties‘ufr’e) numerous, and it is impractica le
to bring them all before the Court, one or more may sue or
defend for the benefit of-allg' Tenants in common, joint tenants,
or 00- artners, 'or an "member 'ks‘s than all may jointly 0r
severa y bring ror efend, ’ or continue the prosecution or
defense, or any-action for the; enforcement of the rights of such
person orpersons.". “  ‘ " -‘ '

SEC. 15. Persons severaily liable upon the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange
and promissory. notes',~ah1d::sa*reties on the same or separate
instruments, mayall, 'er  them, be included 'in the same
action, at the Option" of thenplaintim ] '

SEC. 16. AIL-“action shall: notiabate by the death, or other
disability of aparty', or by! the transfer of 'any interest therein,
if the cause 0 action survive or continue. In case 'of the
death, or disability, d£:a' party, the Court, on motion, may
allow the action to be continued by or against his representative or successorininterest; .. In the case of any other transfer}

of interest, the action may be continued in the name of the
original party, or the Court may allow the person to whom the
transfer 1s made to be substituted in the action. After verdict
shall have been rendered in any action for a wrong, such
actiOn shall not abate by the death of any party, but the case
shall proceed thereafter in the same manner as in cases where
.the cause of action now survives by law. ' '

SEO. 17. The Court may determine any controversy
between parties before. it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their rights; but when 4
a complete determination of the controversy cannot be had ;
Without the presence of other parties, the Court shall order
them to be brought in, and thereupon the party directed by'
the Court shall serve a co y of the summons in the action,
and the order aforesaid in h e manner Of service of the original
summons, upon each of the parties ordered to be brought in,
who shall have ten days, or such time as the Court may order,
after service in which to appear and plead; and in case such

arty fail to appear and plead within the time aforesaid, the

ourt may cause his default to be entered, and proceed as In
other cases of default, or may make such 7 other order as the
condition of the action and justice shall require. ‘ '

TITLE II. .
0f thc'Place of Trial of Civil Actions.SEC. 18. Actions for the following causes shallbe tried
in the County in which the subject of the action, or some part
thereof, is situated, subject to the power of the Court to change
the place of trial, as provided in this Act: First—for the
recovery of real property, or of an estate, or interest therein, or
for the determination in any form of such right or interest, or
for injuries to real property. Second—for the partition dof real
property. Third-7For the forecloSure of a-‘mortgage ofjreal
pr0perty; provided, that where such real pr0perty is situate
partly in one County and partly in "another, the ‘plaintifff‘ ma
select eitherof said Countles, and the County soselected sha 1
be the proper County for the trial of any or all of such actions
as are mentioned in the First, Second and Third‘ subdivisions
ofthis Section.  , - j ' _'  , 

SEC. 19. Actions for the following causes shall be tried
in. the County where the cause, or some part thereof, arose,
subject to the like power of the Court to change the place
of trial: First—For the recovery of a penalty or ferfeiture v
imposed by statute; exce t, that when it is imposed for an
offense committed on a la e, river or other stream of 5 water,
situated in two or more Counties; the action may be brought in
any County bordering on such lake, river or stream, and.
Opposite to the lace where the oii‘ence was committed. SeCond
-——Against a (pu lic officer, or person specially appointed to
execute his uties, for an act done by him in Virtue of his

office, or against a person who, by his command or in his aid,
does anything touchina' the duties of such officer.

SEC. 20. In all ot er cases, the action shall be tried in the
County where the cause of action originated, or in which the
defendants, or anyone of them, may reside at the commencement of the action: or, if none of the defendants-reside in the
Territory, or if residing in the Territory, the County in which
they so reside be unknOwn to the plaintifff, the same may be
tried in any County which the plaintifff may designate in his
complaint; and if any defendant, or defendants, may be about
to depart from the Territory, such action may be tried in any
County where either of the parties may reside, or service 'be
had, subject, however, to the power of the Court to change the
place of trial, as provided in this Act.

SEC. 21.: If the 'County designated for that purpose in
the complaint be not the prOper County, the action may, notwithstanding, be tried therein, unless the defendant, before the
time for. answering-expire, demand inwriting that the-trial be
had in the proper County, and the place of trial be thereupon
changed by consent of parties, or by order of the Court, as 
provided in this Section. The Court may, on motion, change
the place .of trial in the following cases: First—“'hen the
County designated in the complaint is not the preper County.
Second—VVhen there is reason to believe that an im artial trial
cannot be had therein. Third—VVhen convenience o, witnessess
and the ends of justice would be promoted by the change.
Fourth—W'hen from any cause the Judge is disqualified from
acting in the case. When the place of trial is changed, all
other proceedings shall be had in the County to which the
place of trial is changed; unless otherwise provided by consent of the, parties in writing duly filed, or by order of the
Cnurt; andthe papers shall be filed , or transferred accordingly.

‘ \ TITLE In. f
' iof the Manner of Commencing Civil Actions.

~ 7 SEC. 22. Civil action in the courts shall be commenced
by the. filing of acomplaintwith the Clerk of the Court, and
the issuanceof a summons thereon; provided, that after the a
filing of the complaint a defendant in the action may appear,
answer or demur, whethergthe summons has been issued or
not, and such ap arance,; answer .or demurrer, shall be
deemed a waiver o the summons. ' ‘ ~
Site. .23. The Cletkshall enderse on the complaint the
day, month and year the is filed, and at-any time within
one year after. fihng. of the same, the plaintifff may cause to be
issued a summons thereon. The summons shallbe issued by
the Clerk under the ,seal' of the Court. - ' - z SEC. 24.. :The summons shall state yr the parties to the
action, the .Court in which it is brought," the County in which
the complaint ,is liled,the, cause ,and- general" natureof- the
action, and require the defendant  appear and-answer the
complaintgwithin the time mentioned in the next Section,

' 7

after the service of summons, exclusive of the day of serviCe;
or that judgment by default will be taken against him, according to the prayer of the com laint, briefly stating the sum of
money or other relief deman ed in the complaint. ”
SEC. 25. The time in which the summons shall require
the defendant to answer the complaint shall be as follows:
First—If the defendant is served 'thu the County in which
the action is’brought, ten days. Second—if the defendant is
served out of the County, but in the District in which the
action is brought, twenty days. ‘ Third—In all other cases,

r

forty days. . SEC. 26. There shall also be inserted in the summons a
notice in substance as follows: First—In an action arising on
contract for the recovery only of money or damages, that the
plaintifff will take judgment for a sum specified therein, if the
defendant fail to answer the complaint. Second—In other
actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the com laint, the
plaintifff will apply to the Court for the relief emanded
therein. - . i ,

SEC. 27. In an action for the foreclosure of a mortgage
upon real prOperty, or affecting the title or ossession of real
prOperty, the plaintifff, at the time 'of filing t e complaint, and
the defendant, at the time of filing his answer, when affirmative
relief is claimed in such. answer, or at any time afterwards,
may file with the Recorder of the County in which the

.rOperty, or some part thereof is situated, a notice of the pen( ency of the action, containing the names of the‘parties, the
object of the action, and a d iscription of the property in that
County affected thereby, and the defend ant may also, in such
notice, state the nature and extent of, the relief claimed‘in the
answer. From the time of filing, only, shall the pendency of
the action be constructive notice to a urchaser, or incumhrancer of the prOperty affected there y; and in' case of the
foreclosure of such mortgage all purchasers or encumbrancers,
by unrecorded deed or other instrument in writing made prior
to the filing of such notice, and subsequent to the date of such
‘mortgage, shall be deemed and held purchasers or encumbrancers subsequent to the filing of such notice, and subject thereto,
unless they can Show that at the time of filing the notice the
plaintifff had actual notice of such urchase or encumbrance.

SEC. 28. The summons shall e served by the Territorial
Marshal, or the Sherriff of the County where the defendant is
found, and, except as hereinafter rovided, a copy of the
complaint, certified by the Clerk 0 the Court in which the
action is commenced, shall be served with the summons.
When the summons shall be served by the Territorial Marshal,
' or the Sherriff of the County, it shall be returned with the
certificate or affidavit of the officer, of“ its service, and of the
service of the copy of the complaint, to the office of the Clerk
1 of the Court in 'which the action 'is commenced. When the
summons is served by any other erson, as before provided, it
shall be returned to the office 0 the Clerk of the Court in
which the action is commenced with the affidavit of such

person of its service, and of the service of a cop of the
com laint. If there be more than one defendant to t e action
resi 'ng within the County in which the action is brought, a
c0py o the complaint need. be served only on one of such
de endants.

SEC. 29. The summons shall be served by delivering a
copy thereof attatched to the certified COpy of the complaint,
asfollows: First—If the suit be against any incorporated city,
service shall be made on the MayOr and Recorder: Second—

If the suit be against any,County, service shall be made on
the Probate Judge and Clerk of the County Court: Third—If
the suit be against a school district, service shall be made on
the Trustees: Fourth—If the suit be against any irrigating
company, service shall be made on the superintendent or
water master: Fifth—If the suit be against any other

corporate bod , incorporated .-under the laws of the Territory,
service shall made on the President or chief officer, and on
its Secretary or Clerk, if it has such secreta or clerk. Where
the defendant is a foreign corporation an has an acknowledgedagent, in this Territory, service may be made on such

agent, or if no such agent is found, on any person in its emp oy, or who has any of its property in charge: Sixth—If
against a minor under the age of fourteen years, on such minor
personally, and also on his father, mother or guardian, or if
such minor has no such father, mother or guardian in the Territory, then on any person having the care and control of such

, minor, or with whom he resides, or in whose service he is
employed: Seventh—If against aperson judicially declared to
be ‘of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs,
and for whom a uardian has been a pointed, on such guardian: Eighth— all other cases on t e defendant personally,

' or b leaving a certified copy thereof at his usual place of
abo e with some suitable person of, at least, the age of four~
teen ears. ' EC. 30. When the rson on whom the service is to be
made resides out of the ggmtory, or has de arted from the
Territory, or cannot after due diligence be ound within the
Territory, or conceals himself to av01d the service of summons,
or being a co oration, or joint-stock association, cannot be
served as provi ed in Section Twenty-nine, and the fact shall
appear by affidavit to the satisfaction of the Court or Judge
thereof, and it shall in like manner appear that a cause of
action exists against the defendant in respect to whom the
service is to be made, or that he is a necessary or pr0per party
to the action, such Court or Judge may grant an order that the
service be made by the publication of the summons.

' SEC. 31. The order shall direct the publication to be
made in a newspaper to be desi nated as most likelyto give
notice to the personszto be served. If any defendant is a nonresident of the Territory, but has an agent therein, service may

, be made on him by serving the same on his agent, or by leaving a COpy thereof at his usual place of business with any
person in charge thereof. Where any defendant is a nonresident, or his residence is unknowntandhas no known'agent
or lace of business in this Territory, service may be made by
pu lication in some neW'Spapei;P  infand havingta general
circulation. in the Territo ,rwfrhi'che; blication must contain
the names of the parties, gamma (defendant, to the com- plaint, a statement of the objectzthereof,ethe name and style of
, the Court in which the samedsdilhdgand' also notify the ' er- sons thus to be served when theytaneyrequired' to: answer. i 'd
publication shall be inserted foin‘ times consecutively the first
Insertion shall be at least fortyld sébeforethe time of answer,
and a co y of which shallgbe, ‘ ‘ diatelydeposite’d gpost
paid) in t e Past Oflice, directed to thexdefendant or‘ de endants at. their last; known planetariuiuesidenceor business. In
actions upon contracts for’, themdirectf rayane‘ntsof money, the
Court in its discretion may,:i>nste’admt‘.o dean publication, or
.may after publication, appOintoattorney to- appear :for the
non-resident, absent. or concealedzkzdefendant, to conduct the
proceedings on his part. .  :” ninnyw : s ' ‘ ‘ . 1'
SEC. 32. {Where the action isag'ainst two or‘more defend- ;
ants, and the. summons isnservedmh .oneor more, but not on .7
all of them, the plaintifff ma proteed‘ as follows: ‘ First,+If1
the action be against the d enemas jointly indebted upon a 1
contract, he may proceed againstthedefendant served, unless
the‘Court otherwiSe direct; and itiaréccbver judgment, it may
be entered ainst all thedefendants thus .jointl‘y indebted, so
far only as t at it may be enforeed‘ against. the 'gOint .pro rty
of all and the separate pmpertyr, oil the deliendant serve ; or,
Second—If the action be againSt'; defendants severally liable,
he may proceed against the detendants served in the same
manner as if they were the onlyEdefenldauts.‘ ' ‘
' SEC. 33. . Proof of the servicerofathe-summons shall be as
follows: First—If served by the idbm'itorial. Marshal, or the
. Sheriff of the County, the affidawitioriceltiticateof such officer; :
or, Second———In case of ‘ publication, the. adiidavit‘ of the pub-'
lisher, his foreman or principal clerk,eshowing the same, and
an affidavit of a deposit Of a co yn‘fsthe isummons in the Post
Office, if the same ‘shall. have my: deposited; or, Thirde—the
written admission of the defendant-1'  '~ 7; .' “ .
SEC. 34. In case of service otherwise than by publication,
the .certificate or affidavit shall.7stateo the.) time and place of
servme. ' ‘ r’:0,f1..3- 5'; i . v
7 - SEC. 35. From the time blithe'service of the summons in
a civil action, the Court. shall: be: deemed .to have acquired
jurisdiction, and to have controlsfofvalltthe subsequent ro~ oeedilzss. A voluntary appearance {of a' defendant ‘ shal be
equiv ent to personal service of :thel’summons upOn him.

ii {'3 15.. .t

»_ 7 3 '1 v , "
0f the Pleadingisw‘bt <WZ"Actz'ons.

i?-'~r‘1iu.¢_ f
1*.\'

SEC. 36. The pleadings.are'.the\fonnal allegations by the :

parties of their respective claims and defenses, for the judgment of the Court. .

SEC. 37. All the forms of pleadings in civil actions, and
the rules by which the suflicienc of the pleadings shall be
determined, shall be those prose ed in this Act.

SEC. 38. The onl peadin on the part of the lain:titf shall be the comp t or emurrer to the defen ant’s
answer; and the only pleadings on the part of the defendant shall be the demurrer, or he answer. The demurrer or
answer of the- defendant, and the demurrer of the plaintifff,
shall be filed with the Clerk, and a copy served on the adverse
party, or his attorney.

. no. 39. The com laint shall contain: First—The title of
the action, specifying t name of the Court, and the name of
the County m which the action is brought, and the names of
the parties to the action, plaintifff and defendant. Second—A
statement of the facts constituting the cause of action in ordinary and concise  Thlrd' —A demand of the relief
WhJCh the plaintifff c 8. If the recovery of mone or
damages be demanded the amount thereof shall be state .

SEC. 40. The defendant may demur to the com laint
within the time required in the summons to answer, w en it
a pears upon the face thereof, either: First—That the

ourt has no 'urisdiction of the erson of the defendant, or
the subject of t e action; or, Secon -That the plaintifff has not
legal capacity to sue; or, Third—that there is another action
ending between the same parties for the same cause; or,
ourth—There is a defect or misjoinder of arties, laintitf or
defendant; or, Fifth—That several causes 0 action ave been
impero rly united; or, Sixth—That the complaint does not
sta acts sufficient to constitute a cause of actlon. Seventh—
That the complaint is ambiguous, unintelligible or uncertain.

SEC. 41. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the °
grounds upon which any of the objections to the complaint are
taken. Unless it do so 1t ma be disregarded. '

SEO. 42. The defendan may demur to the whole com~
plaint, or to one or more of several causes of action stated
therein, and answer the residue; or may demur and answer at
the same time. ~

SEO. 43. If the complaint be amended, a co y of the
amendment shall be filed, or the Court may, in its discretion.
require the complaint as amended to be filed, and a copy of
the amendments shall be served upon every defendant to be
affected thereby or u n his attorney if he has appeared by
attorneiy. The defen ant shall answer in such time a may be
ordere by the Court, and judgment by default may be entered
upon failure to answer, as 1n other cases.

SE0. 44. When any of the matters enumerated in Section
Forty do not a pear upon the face of the complaint, the object
tion may be ta en by answer. "

. SEC. 45. If no such objection be taken, either by demur~
rer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived
the same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction 0

the Court, and the'objection that the complaint does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

SEC. 46. The answer of the defendant shall contain:
First—If the complaint be verified, a s ecific denial to each
allegation of the com laint, controverte by the defendant, or
a denial thereof acco ing to his information and belief; if the
complaint be not verified, then a general denial to each of such
allegations; but a general denial shall only put in. issue the
material and eXpress allegations of the comp .aint. Second——
A statement of any new matter-or counterclaim constituting a
defense,’ in ordinary and concise language. ' SEC. 4’7. The counterclaim mentioned in the last Section,
shall be one existino' in favor of the 'defendant and against a
plaintifff, between whom a several judgment might be had in
the action, and arising out of one of the following causes of
action: First—A cause of action arising out of the transaction
set forth in the complaint as the foundation of the plaintifff ’s
claim, or connected with the subject of the action. Second—In
an action arising upon contract, any other cause of action
arising also upon contract and existing at the commencment of
the action. ' .

SEC. 48. \Vhen cross demands have existed between
persons under such circumstances that if one had brought an
action against the other a counterclaim could have been set
up, neither shall be deprived of the benefit thereof by the
assignment or death of the other, but the two demands be
deemed compensation so far as they equal each other.

SEC. 49. The defendant may set forth by answer as man
defenses and Counter claims as he ma have. They shall eac
be separately stated, and the several efenses shall refer to the
causes of action which they are intended to answer, in a man. ner in which the may be intelliginy distinguished.

SEC. 50. T 1e laintiff may, within the number of days
in which the defenc ant is by the summons required to answer,
said days to be computed from the time of the service on the
plaintifff of a copy of such answer, demur to the same for
insufficiency, stating in his demurrer the grounds thereof; and
he may also, within the same time, demur to one or more of
the defenses set up in the answer. Sham and irrelevant
answers and defenses, and so much of any answer as may be
irrelevant, redundant or immaterial may be stricken out on
motion, and upon such terms as the Court, in its discretion,
may impose.

SEC. 51. Every pleading shall be subscribed by the (party
or his attorne , and when the complaint is verified by afti avit,
the answer shall be verified also, except as prov1ded in the
next Section. 7

SEC. 52. The verification of the answer required in the
last Section may be omitted when an admission of the truth of
Eh? complaint might subject the party to prosecution for

e on .
EC. 53. When an action is brought upon a written instrument, and the complaint contains a cepy of such instru_ment, or a cOpy is annexed thereto, the genuineness and due
execution of such instrument . shall be deemed admitted,
unless the answer denyin the same be verified.

SEC. 54. When _ the gefense to an action is founded upon
a written instrument, and a c0py thereof is contained in the
answer, or. a cop is annexed thereto, the gen-nineness and due
execution of such, instrument shall be deemed admitted unless
the plaintifff file with the Clerk Within five days after the
service of the answer, or within such other time as the Court
shall order, an aihdavit denying the same. _

SEC. 55. In all cases of,the Verification of a pleading, the
aiiidavit of the party shall state that the same is true of his own
knowledge, except as to the matters which are therein stated
on his ‘ information or belief and as to those matters, that he
believes it to be true. And where a, leadin is verified, it
shall be by the affidavit of the party, 11 ess he absent from
the county where the attOrneys reside, or from some cause
unable 'to verify it, or the facts are within the knowledge of
his attorney or other person verifying. the same. A When t'le
pleading is verified by the attorney, or any other person except
the party, he shall set forth in the aiiidavit the reasons why it
is not made by the party. When a corporation is a party, the
verification may be made by any officer thereof; or when the
Territory, or' any officer thereof in its behalf, is a party; the
veriiication may be made by any person acquainte with the
facts; except that in actions plrosecuted by the Attorney-General
in behalf of the Territory, t e pleadings need not, in any case,
be verified.

SEO. 56. It shall not be necessary for a party to' set forth
gin-a pleading the items of an account therein alleged, but he
shall deliver tothe adverse party within five days, or such
other time as the Court may direct, after a demand thereof, in
writing,,a c0py of the account, or. be precluded from giving
evidence thereof. The Court, or a Judge thereof, may order a
further account when the one delivered is too general or is
defective in an particular. , j , - .

' .SEC. 57. if irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in
a pleading, it may be stricken out by the Court on motion of
any erson ag rieved therebfy. .

EC. 58. n an action 'or the recovery of real property,

' such prOperty shall be described, with its metes and bounds,

in the complaint, or with other equal certainty. '

SEC. 59. In pleading a judgment or other determination
of a Court, or officer of eSpecial jurisdiction, it shall not be
necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such
judgment. or. determination may be. stated to have been duly
given or made. If such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish- on the trial the facts
conferring jurisdiction. 1 ‘ SEC. 60. In pleading the performance of conditions

recedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the
ts showing such performance; but it may be stated generally
that the party duly performed all the conditions on his part;

.

and if such allegation be controverted,_the arty leading shall
establish on the trial the facts showing such pe ormance.
I SEO. 61. In leadin a private statute, or a right derived
therefrom, it' shall) be su cient to refer to such statue by its
title and the day of its passage, and the Court shall thereupon
take 'udicial notice thereof. .
EC. 62. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be

necessary tostate in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the

urpose of showing the application to the plaintifff of the deamatory matmr out of which the action arose; “but it shall be
sufficient to state generally that the same was published, or
Spoken, concernin 'the plaintifff; and if such alle atiOn be
controverted, ‘ the p aintiff shallestablish on the trial t at it was
so published or spoken. ' ’ ' '_ ‘ - "

SEC. 63. In the aetions mentioned in the last Section, the
defendant may”, in his answer, allege both“ the truth of the
matter charged as defamatory; and any mitigatin ' circumstances to reduce the amOunt of damages; and, w ether he
prove the justification or not, he may give in evidence the
mitigating circumstanCes. ’ ‘ '. . * . ' ' .

SEC. 64. The plaintifff may unite several causes of action
in the same complaint, when ’they all arise out of: First—
Contracts express or implied; or: Second—Claims to recover
Specific real property, WIth or without "damages, for the withholding hereof, or for. waste committed thereon, and'the rents
and profits of, the same; or: Third—Claims to recover specific
personal rOpert , with or without damage, for the withhold1ng thereo ; or: mirth—Claims against trustee, by virtue of a
contract, or b Operation of law; or: Fifth—r- Injuries to
character or: ‘ ixth—Inju’ries to person; or: Seventh—eInjuries
to prOperty. But the causes of action so united shall all belong
to only one of these classes, and shall affect all the arties to
the actiOn, and not-require different places of trial, an shall be
separately stated ;; receded, however, that an action for
malicious arrest an prosecution, or either Of them, may be
united with an action for either injury to character or to the
persona , - '

A SEC. 65. Every material allegation of the complaint,
when it is verified, not specifically controverted by the answer,
shall for the purpose of the action be taken as true. The
allegation of new matter in the answer, shall on the trial be
deemed controverted by the adverse party.

. SEC. 66. A material allegation in a pleading is one.
essential to the claim, or defense, and which con (1 not bei
stricken from the pleading without leaving it insufficient.

V SEC. 67. After demurrer, and before the trial of issue on
demurrer, either (party may, within ten days, amend any
pleading demurre to, of course, and without costs, filing the
same as amended, and serving a c0py thereof upon the adverse .
arty or his attorney, who shall have ten days ._to answer or‘
emur thereto: if the pleading be a com laint, or to demur
thereto if it be'anaanswer; but a party shal not so dwen more
than once. When a demurrer to a complaint is overruled, and

there is no answer filed, the Court may, upon such terms as
shall be just, and u on ayment of costs, allow thedefendant
to me an answer. f a emurrer to the answer be overruled,
the faicts alleged in the answer shall still be considered as
denie .

SEC. 68. The Court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on such terms as may be pfpper, amend any pleading or proceedings by adding or stn "ng out the name of any party, or
by correcting a mistake in the name of the party, or a mistake
in an other respect, and may upon like terms enlarge the
time or an answer or demurrer, or demurrer to an answer
filed. The Court may likewise, upon affidavit showing good
cause. therefore, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon
such terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or
proceeding in other particulars, and may upon like terms
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this Act,
and may, upon such terms as may be just, and upon payment of costs, relieve a party or his legal re resentatives from
a judgment, order or other proceedmg ta en against him
through his mistake, inadvertence,‘ surprise or excusable
neglect; and when, from any cause, the summons and a c0py
of the complaint in an action have not been personally served
on the defendant, the Court may allow, on such terms as may
be just, such defendant or his legal representatives, at any
' time within six months after the rendition of any 'udgment in
such action, to answer to the merits of the origina action.

SEC. 69. \Vhen the plaintifff is ignorant of the name of a
defendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading

' or proceeding by any name, and when his true name is discovered the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordin 1 '. L

g 3SEC. 70. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally
construed, with a view to substantial justice between the
parties.

SEC. ’7 1. The Court shall in ever stage of an action dis, regard any error or defect in the 1p eadings or proceedings,

l which shall not affect the substantia rights of the parties, and
no judgment shall be reversed or affected by reason of such
error or defect.

TITLE V.

0f the Provisional Remedies in Civil Actions.
CHAPTER 1.—ARREST AND BAIL. .

SEC. 72. No erson shall be arrested in a cin‘l action
exce tas prescribe b this Act.

‘Ec. ’7 3. The de endant may be arrested, as hereinafter
prescribed, in the following cases arising after the passage of
this Act: First—In an action for the recovery of money or
damages on a cause of action arising upon contract, eXpress or
implied, when the defendant is about to depart from the Territory with intent to defraud his creditors, or when the action is
for libel or slander. Second—In an action for a fine or‘
penalty, or for'money or prOperty embezzled, or fraudulentlyj
misap lied or converted to lns own use by a public officer, or
an o cer of a corporation, or an attorney, factor, broker,
agent or clerk, in the course of his employment as such, or
by any other person in a fiduciary capacity Or for misconduct
or neglect in office, 'or in a professional employment, or for a
willful violation of duty. Third—In an action to recover'the
possession of personal property unjustly detained, when the

rOperty or any part thereof has been concealed, removed or

iSposed of, so that it cannot be found or taken by theTerritorial Marshal, his de uty, or the Sherritf, or his deputy.
Fourth—VVhen the defen‘ ant has been guilty of a fraud in
contracting the debt or incurring the obligationfor which the
action is brought, or in concealing or disposing of the
property, for the taking, detention or Conversion of which the
action is brought. Fifth—IVhen the defendant has removed
or disposed of his property, or is about to do so, with the
intent to defraud his creditors. ‘

SEC. 74. An Order for the arrest of the defendant shall
be obtained from a Judge of the Court in which the action is
brought. _ , .' e 7 .

SEC. 75. The order maybe made whenever it'shall appear
to the Judge, by the, affidavit Of the plaintifff or some other
person, that a sufficient cause of action exists, and the case is
one of those mentioned in Section .Seventy-Three. The
affidavit shall be either positive or upon information and
belief; and when u' on information and belief, it shall state
the facts upon whic 1 the information and belief are founded.
If an order of arrest be made, the affidavit shall be filed with
the Clerk of the Court. .

SEC. 76. Before making. the 'order the judge shall
require a written undertaking, on the art of the plaintifff,
with sureties, to the effect that if the 'de endant recover judgment, the plaintifff Will pay all costs and charges that may be
awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may
sustain ‘ by reason of the" arrest, not exceeding the some
specified in the undertaking,“ which shall be at least 'five
hundred dollars. Each of the, sureties shall annex, to the
undertaking an affidavit. that he is a resident and householder or freelitilder within, the Territory and Worth, double
the sum specified in the undertaking over and above, all 
debts and liabilities, exclusive of, preperty' exempt from
execution. The undertaking shall be filed with the, Clerk of
the'Court;_ ‘    ~ ' ’   'f ‘ .

SEC. ‘77. The order may‘ be made to’ acCOmpany the
summons, or any time afterwards before; judgment. A 7 t shall
require the Territorial" Marshal, his de uty, the Sheriff of the
County, or his deputy, Where the de endant "may be found,
forthwith to, arrest him andJEhOJd him‘ to bail in a speci’ded‘
sum; and to return the ,order'at the time therein mentiOned to
the Clerk of tl'ie'Court'iii‘iwhiclr‘ the action is pending.',,”

SEC. 78. The order of arrest, with a cepy of the affidavit
u on which it is made, shall be delivered to the Sheriff, or
ot er officer, who, u on arresting the defendant, shall deliver
to himthe copy of tIhe afhdavit, and also if desired a copy of
the order of arrest. ‘

SEC. 79. The Sheriff, or other Oflicer, shall execute the

I order by arrestng the defendant and keeping him in custody
until discharged by law.

SEO. 80. The defendant, at any time before execution,
shall be discharged from the arrest either upon givin bail or
u on depositing the amount of money mentioned in t e order
0 arrest, as provided in this Chapter.

SEC. 81. The defendant ma givebail by causing a written undertakin , as directed byt e Judge, to be executed by
two or more su cient sureties, stating their places of residence
and occu ations, to the effect that they are bound in the amount
mentione in the order of arrest; that, the defendant shall at all
times render himself amenable to the recess, of the Court
durin the endency of the action, an to .such as may be
issue to en orce the judgment therein; or that they will pay
to the plaintifff the amount of any judgment, which may be
recovered in the action.

SEC. 82. At any time before jud ment, or within ten
days thereafter, the bail may surrender t e defendant in their
exoneration; or he may surrender himself to the Sheriff, or
other officer of the Court, where he was arrested.

SEC. 83. .For the purpose of surrendering the defendant,
the bail, at. any time or place before they are hnally charged,
may themselves arrest him; or by a written, authority, indorsed
on a certified copy of the undertaking, may em ower the.
Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff to do so. Upon t e arrest of
the defendant by said officer, or upon his. delivery to him by
the bail,- or_upon his own surrender, the. bail shall be exonerated, provided, such arrest, delivery or. surrender take place
before the expiration of ten daysafter judgment, but if such
arrest, delivery or surrender be not made Within ten days after
judgment, the bail shall be; finally, charged on their undertakmg, and be; bound . to pay the .amount of . the judgment
within ten days thereafter. ‘  . v I, _ .

SEO. 84. If the bail neglect; or refuseto gay the judgment
within ten days after they are finally charge ,,an action may
be commenCed. against such bail for, the amount of such

original judgment. ' ... ,  I  _ ,

SEC. 85. The bail shall also be. exonerated by the death
of the defendant, or his imprisonment in the Pemtentiary, or
by his legal discharge from the obligation to render himself
amenable to the recess- - ‘  . - .

SEC. 86.‘ ' .ithin the time limited for that purpose, the
Territorial Marshal, 0r Sheriff, shall file the order of arrest in
the ethos of the Clerk of the Court in which the action is
pending, with his return indorsed thereon, to ther with a copy
of the undertaking of the bail. The ,origina undertaking he
shall retain in his possession until filed, as herein provided.

The plaintifff within ten days thereafter may serve upon the

officer a notice that he does not accept the bail, or he shall be

deemed to have acce ted them, and the officer shall be exonerated from liability. f no notice be served within ten days;

Ehe original undertaking shall be filed with the Clerk of the
ourt. ‘ '

SEC. 87. Within five dz;in after the receipt of notice, the
Territorial Marshal, or Sheri , or defendant may 've to the
plaintifff, or his attorney, notice of the justification o the same,
or other bail, (specifying the laces of residence and occupations of the latter) before the udge of the Court, or Clerk, at
a. specified time and place; the time to be not less than five nor
more than ten days thereafter, exce t by consent of arties.
In case other bail be given, there shal be a new underta 'ng.

SEO. 88. The qualifications of bail shall be as follows:
First—Each of them shall be a resident, and householder, or
freeholder, within the county. Second—Each shall be worth
the amount s eciiied in the order of arrest, or the amount to
which the 0 er is reduced, as provided in this Chapter, over
and above all! his debts and. liabilities, exclusive of prOperty
exempt from execution; but the Judge or Clerk, on justification ,
may allow more than two sureties to justify severally in
amounts less than. that expressed in the order, if the whole
justification be equivalent to that of two sufficient bail. ,

SEO. 89'; For the purpose of justincation, each of the
bail shall attend before the Jud e, or Clerk, at the time and
place mentioned in the‘notice, an may be examined on oath,
on the part of the laintiff, tou'Ching‘his suiliciency, in , such
manner as the J u _ ge or Clerk in his discretion may think
proper. The examination shall be reduced to writing, and
subscribed by the bail if requiredby the laintiff.» ‘ j ' .

SEC. 90. ‘If the udge, or Clerk,fin the bail sufficient,

‘ he shall annex the examination to the' undertaking, indorse
his allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed, and the officer
shall thereupon be exonerated from liability. .

SEC. 91. The defendant _ma I at the time of his arrest,
instead 0f giving bail,-deposit wit the Territorial Marshal or
Sheriff, the amount mentioned in the, order. In case the
amount of the bail be reduced, as provided in this Chapter,
the defendant may deposit such amount instead of glving
bail. 3 In either case the officer shalligive the defendant a certificate of the depOSit made, and the defendant shall be dis:

char ed from .custod . I . b ‘ . ._

EC. 92. The' erritorial Marshal, or. Sheriff, shall immediately after the deposit. pay the same into. Court, and take
from the Clerk receivin ‘the same two certificates of. such
payment; the onepof whic he shall deliver 'or transmitrto the
plaintifff, or his attorney, and the other to the defendant. ‘ For
any default in making such (payment,- the same roceedings
may be had on the official bon of the odicer to co ect the sum
deposited as in other cases of delinquency. _

SEC. 93. If money be deposited, as provided in the
last two sections, bail may be given, and may justify upon

notice at any time before judgment; and on the filing of the
undertaking and justification with the Clerk, the money
deposited shall be refunded by such Clerk to the defendant.

SEC. 94. \Vhere money shall. have been deposited, if it

f remain on deposit at the time of a recovery of a judgment in
favor Of the plaintifff, the Clerk shall, under the direction of
the Court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and after
satisfying the judgment shall refund the surplus, if any, to
the defendant. If the judgment be in favor Of the defendant,
the Clerk shall, under like direction Of the Court, refund to
him the whole sum depgsited and remaining unapplied.

SEC. 95. If after ing arrested, the defendant escape or
be rescued, the Territorial Marshal, or other officer, shall himself be liable as bail; but he may discharge himself from such
liability by the giving and justification of bail at any time
before judgment. .

SEC. 96. If a judgment be recovered against the Territorial Marshal, or other officer, upon his liability as bail, and an
execution thereon be returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part,
the same proceedings may be had on his Official bond for the
recovery of the whole or any deficiency,an in. other cases of
delinquency.

SEC. 97. A defendant arrested may, at any time before
the justification of bail, apply to the Judge who made the
order, or the Court in which the action is pending, upon
reasonable notice to the plaintifff, to vacate the order of arrest,
or to reduce the amount of bail. If the ap lication be. made
upOn affidavits on'the part of the defendant,£ut not otherwise,
the laintifl‘ may Oppose the same by affidavits or other proofs
in dition to those on which the order of arrest was made.

SEC. 98. If upon such application it shall satisfactorily
ap earthat there was not su cient cause for the arrest, the
or er shall be vacated, or if it satisfactorily a pear that the
bail was fixed too high, the amount shall be re Iced.

CngiPTER 2. — CLAIMS AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL
_ . PROPERTY.

SEC. 99. The plaintifff in an action to recover the posses, sion of. personal prOperty, may, at the time of issuing the

summons, or at anytime before answer, claim the delivery of
such prOperty to him as provided in this Chapter.

SEC. 100. Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall
be made. by the plaintifff, orb. some one on his behalf, showing:
First—That the plaintifff is t e owner of the prOperty claimed,
(particulary describing it) or is lawfully entitled to. the ssess10n' thereof. Second—That the pro ertv is wrongf ly ; de-_
tained by the defendant. Third—T e alle ed cause of the
detentiOn-thereof according to his best know edge, information
and belief. Fourth—That the .same has not been taken for a
tax, assessment or fine, pursuant to a statute, or seized under
an execution or an attachment against the prOperty of the

plaintifff, or, if so seized, that‘it is by statute exempt from such
seizure; and, Fifth—The actual value of the pr0perty.

SEC. 101. The plainti‘ji‘ or his attorney, may thereupon,
by endorsement in writing upon the affidavit, require the
Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the County, where the
property claimed may be, to take the same from the defendant.

SEC. 102. Upon a receipt of the affidavit and notice, with
a written undertaking, executed by two or more sufiicient
sureties, approved by the Territorial Marshal, or Sheriff, to the
effect that they are bound to the defendant in double the value
of the pmperty, as stated in the affidavit‘for the prosecution of
the action, for the return of the prOperty to the efendants, if
return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of
such sum as may from any cause be recovered against the
plaintifff, the Territorial Marshal, or other ‘oiiicer, shall forthwith take the propert described in the affidavit, if it be in the
possession of the de endant or his agent, and retain it in his
custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the defendant
a cepy of the affidavit, notice and undertaking, by delivering
the same to him personally if he can be found, or to his agent,
from whose possession the pr0pert is taken: or, if neither can
be found, by leaving‘ them at" t e usual lace of abode of
either, with some pirson of suitable age an discretion; or if
neither have any own place of abode, by putting them in
the nearest Post O£ice gpost paid), directed to the defendant.

SEC. 103. The de ‘endant may, within two days after the

service of a coPy of the affidavit and the’ undertaking, give
notice to the Territorial Marshal, his deputy, the Sheriff of the ‘
County, or his de .uty, that he excepts to the‘sudiciency of the
sureties. If he ails to do so, he shall be deemed to have
waived all objection to them. When the defendant exce ts,
the sureties shall justify on notice in like manner as upon ail

on arrest; and the Territorial Marshal, his deputy, the Sheriff
of the County, or his ' deputy; shall be responsible for the

sufficiency of the sureties until the objection to them is either

waived, as above provided, or until they justify. If the

defendant exce t to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property, as provi ed in the next Section. ‘ 7

SEC. 104. At any time before the delivery of the property

to the plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the

sureties of the plaintifff, re uire the return thereof, upon giving ;
to the Territorial Marsh , his deputy, the Sheriff of the 1
County, or' his deputy, a written undertaking, executed by

two or more suihcient sureties, to the effect thatthey are bound

in double the value of the property, as stated in. the affidavit

of the plaintifff, for-the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such

delivery be adjudged, and .for the payment to him of such

sum as may~for any cause be recovered against the defendant.

If a return of the rcperty be not required within five days
after the taking an serving of notice to the defendant, it shall
be delivered to the plaintifff, except as provided in Section One

Hundred and Nine. . ' ‘

SEC. 105. The defendant’s sureties, upon notice to the

plaintifff of not less than two or more than five days, shall
Justify before the Judge or the Clerk, in the same manner as
u n bail on arrest; and upon such justification the Territorial
arshal, or the Sheriil‘ of the County, shall deliver the pm
rty to the defendant. The Territorial Marshal, or the
heriil' of the County, shall be responsible for the defendant’s
sureties until tlgly justify, or untrl the justification is com- ‘
pleted or e re y waived, and may retain thfgjproperty until ‘
that time. they, or others in theiILElaoe, to justify at
the time antgfplace appointed, he s deliver the property
to the plain ’ .

SEC. 106. The qualification of sureties and their ju stitication shall be such as are prescribed by this Act in respect to
bail upon an order of arrest. '

SEC. 107. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a building or enclosure, the Territorial Marshal, or
the Sheriff of the County, shall publicly demand its delivery.
'If it be not delivered; he shall cause the building or enclosure
to be broken Open, and take the  into his possession;
32d if necessary, he may call 0 ' aid the power of the

un .820. 108. When the Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of
, the County, shall have taken preperty, as in this Chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver 1t to the
party entitled thereto upon receiving his lawful fees for taking
and necessary e uses for kee ing the same.

SEC. 109. the roperty en be claimed by any other
’ person than the defen ant or his agent, and such person make
affidavit of his title thereto, or nght to possession thereof,
stating the grounds of such title or ' ht, and serve the same
upon the Territorial Marshal, or the S eriil' of the County, the
Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the County, shall not be
bound to keep the property or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless
the plaintifff on demand of him or his agent, indemnify the
Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriif of the County, against 'such
claim by an undertaking, by two sumcient sureties, accompanied by their affidavits, that the are each worth double the
value of the re rty as specific in the affidavit of the plaintifff, over and) ve their debts and liabilities, exclusive of
pro rty exem t from execution , and are freeholders or house01 ers in the 7 unt ;and no claim to such pro rt by any
other person than t e defendant. or his agent s be valid
against the Territorial Marshal, ‘or the Shentl' 0f the County,
unless so made. .

SEC. .110. The Territorial Marshal, or the Sherid' of the
County, shall file the notice, undertaking: or ‘aflid'avit, with
his proceedings thereon, with the Clerk of the Court in which
the action is ndin , within twenty days after taking the
property men oned t erein. n ’ '

' CHAPTER 3.—mmnczrion.
SEC. 111. An injunction is a writ or order requiring a

rson 'to refrain from aparticular act. The order or writ may 3

granted by the Court 1n which the action is brought, or by
a Judge thereof, and, when made by' a Judge, may be
enforced as the 'order of the Court. ' ' ‘
' , ' SEC. 112. An injunctien may be granted. in the following
cases: First—When it shall aptpear by the complaint that the
plaintifff is entitled to the relie demanded, and such relief or
any part thereof consists .in restraining the commission or}
continuance :of the act complained of, either for a limited:
period or perpetually. Second—When it shall appear by the
complaint or adidaVIt that the commission or continuance of
some act, during the litigation, would produCe great 0r irreparable injury to the plaintifff. Third—When it shall appear,

uring the litigation, that the defendant is doing, or threatens,

or is about to do or is procuring or suffering to betdone,
some act in violation of the plaintifff’s rights respecting the
sub'ect of the action, and tending to mnder- the judgment
ine ectual. ‘ - r

SEC. 113. The injunction may be granted at the time of .
issuing the summons upon the corgplaint, and at i any time
afterwards, before judgment, upon a davits or other evidence. ‘
The complaint in the one case, and the affidavits or other‘
evidence in the other, shall show satisfactorily that sufficient
grounds exist therefore. No in’unction shall be nted on the
complaint, unless it be verifie by the oath of t e plaintifff, or
some one in his behalf, that he, the rson making the oath,
has read the complaint or heard e complaint read, and
knows the contents thereof, and the, same 18 time, of his own
knowledge, except the matters therein stated on information
and belief, and that as to those matters he believes titto be.
true. When granted on the com laint, a copy of the complaint and verification’attached sh be served with the injunction: when granted upon affidavit, without notice, a coPy of
the affidavit shall be served with the injunction. ‘

SEC. 114.. An injunction shall not be allowed after the
defendant-has answered unless u 011 notice, or upon an order
made as provided in Section One - undred and Sixteen, but in‘
such case the defendant may be restrained until the decision
of ‘the Court or Judge grantingoor refusing the injunction.

SEC. .115. On granting an injunction, or a restraining.
order, the Court or Judge shall require, except where the j
Territo , a County, or a City is a party laintiif, a written
underta 'ng, with sumcient s'ureties, to t 'e effect that the
plaintifff will pay to the party- enjoined such damages, not
exceeding an amount to' be *' specified, ' as such party may
sustain by reason of the injunction, if the Court finally decide
that the plaintifff was not entitled thereto. ’? . 

SEC. -'116. If the Court or Judge deem i ro r that the
defendant, or any of several defendants, should £6 Egard before.
granting the injunction, anorder shall be made fixing a time 3
and lace for hearin the application for the injunction,-a cOpy
of w 'ch order sh be served in n the person or persons
designated therein, and the defen ant may in the, meantime

be restrained. Upon the hearing, the parties may use anidavits,
otherwritten evidence and Oral testimony.

SEC. 117. An injunction or restraining order to sue nd
the general and ordinary business of a corporation sh not
be granted without due notice of the application. therefore, to
be servedin the manner prescribed for service of the summons
in the action. - .. a 1

SEC. 118. If an injunction be granted without notice, the
defendant at any time before the trial, may apply, upon
reasonable notice, to the Judge who granted the injunction,
or to the'Court in which the action is ‘ nding, era Judge
thereof, to dissolve or modify the same. g‘ehe application may
be made upon ' the complaint and the affidavit, or afhdavits,
on which theninjunction was .‘granted, if any were -used, or
upon. affidavits or other testiniony on the part of the defendant,
Wither without the answer. If the apphcation be made 11 n
affidavit, 'or other evidence, on the part of the defendant, at
not otherwise, the plaintifff may Oppose the same by affidavits
or other evidence in addition ' to 'the affidavits on which the
injunction was granted, and the defendant ma then in pro r
0383,;- introduce rebutting'atiidavits or other evi ence:p1‘0vz' d,
that tbr the purpose of allowing the plaintifff to introduce
further evidence, the answer or verification thereto attached
;shall be deemed an affidavit. ' ' .

SEQ. 11,). The Courts {may prescribe b rule the time
when, and the cases in which, the service 0 affidavits to be
used upon ap ‘1i'cations for injunctions, and motionsto dissolve
injunctions, s all be made; and may also provide b rule for
the givin of notice before such hearin s, o the kin of testimony to e used, and makeall needfu rules on the subject of
injunctions not in coniiiGt With thisor other Acts. . .

SEC. 120.' If upon the. hearing of. an application for an
injunction, or for the dissolution of an injunction, it does not
satisfactorily a pear that there is a sufficient- cause for an
injunction, or i it appear that: the extent of .the. injunction is
too great, it shall be refused, dissolved or modified, as the case
maybe, and iipon all such applications in actions respecting
mines, the Court, or Judge hearing. the same, ma , instead of
granting for continuing the injunction, make me er requiring
the party against whom the a ghcation ismade,  ve a bond
in an amount ‘fixed by such, ourt ‘or Judge, Wit Sufiicient
Sureties, to be approve by such; (hurt or Judge, conditioned
for the ayment to the plaintifff, of  damafges which he may
sustain y reason of the use oroccupationo the mine, or other
acts complained . of,'liy the part .giwngfltihe bond, has (iii: its

nts servants, em eyes, gran es or 0 er persons y sor
it‘gse consent ndingp. the litigation, if the plaintin.’ finally
recover: or t at? 'u on failure. to give such bond within the
time prescribed in t e order, the injunction shallrbe granted, or

continued, as the case may be; orthe court or Judge, may
a point a receiver, 'totake charge of the mine, ~0r'2the proceeds
t ereof, pendin the litigation. : . i- v .1 .. .

SEC. 121. t shall be good cause in the discretion of the

Court, or Judge, for the‘djssol'ntion of an injunction that the ;

plaintifff is doing, or causin , or permitting to be done, some
act nding the liti ation W 'ch, if continued, will be injurious
. recover, or- to the property in
dispute. But the Court, or J u ge, hearing a motion to dissolve

to t e defendant i he iinall

an injunction, may instead of granting such motion, direct by
. ' arties restrained a bond
conditiOned, as provide in Section ne Hundred and Twenty,
prescribed in such

order that the p1a1nt1if 've to the

or upon his failure to do so, within the time
order, that the injunction shall be dissolved.

_ p , CHAPTER 4.—ATTACHMENT. .
SEC. 122. The plaintifff, at the time of issuing. the summons, or at any time afterwards,.may have the , prOperty of

the defendant attached, as security for the satisfaction of any
judgment that may be recovered, unless the defendant give
security .to pay such judgment, as hereinafter provided in the
followin cases: In an action 11 on a contract, which is not
secured y mort age, lien or. 'ed e upon real or personal
prOperty, situate or being in t 's erritory, or, if so secured,
when such security has been rendered nugatory
the defendant, against a defendant not residing in this Territory, or ainst a person Who has departed or is about to depart
from the erritory or County wherein the action is brought, or
who stands in“ defiance of an officer,- or conceals himself so that
process cannot be served on him, or who is disposing of his
prOperty with intentito defraud his creditors. ’ ‘
7 ‘ SEC; 123. The Clerk of the Court” shall issue the writ of
attaChIn-ent upen‘recei’Vin an, affidavit by'Or on 9 behalf of the
plaintifff, which, shall be ed, sdeing: that the. defendant is
indebted to‘the plaintifff upon a contract, Specifying the nature
and amount thereof as near as ma be over and above ,all’ legal
set-offs "or counterclaima and t at the same has not been
secured .by any mort age, lien or pledge upon real or personal
property situate or eing in this Territory, or, if so secured,
that sald security has been rendered nngatory by the act of
the defendant; and that the same is an actual, 'bona fide,
eXiSting demand, due and owing from the defendant to the
plaintifff, and that the attachment is not sought. and the
action is not prosecuted to hinder, delay or defraud any
creditor of the defendant, and Specifying one or more of the
causes set ferth in the preceding Section. ' ' . .
SEC. 124.- Before issuing the writ the Clerk shall require

1

a written undertaking on the part Of the plaintifff,in a sum not

by the act of

4

‘
1

less than two hundred dollars, nor exceeding, the amount I
claimed by'the plaintifff, with sudicient suretie's, to the effect I

that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff will pay
all ‘costs' that may be awarded to the de endant, and all
damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment,
not exceeding the sum Specified in the undertaking. ' SEC. 125. The writ shall be directed to the Territorial
Marshal, his deputy, or the Sheriff of any County, in which

property of such defendant may be, and require him to
attach and safely keep all the . roperty of such defendant
within the County not exempt m execution, or so much
thereof as may be suHicient to satisfy the plaintifff’s demand,

the amount of which shall be stated in conformity with the
complaint, unless the defendant give him security by the
undertaking, of at least two, sufficient sureties, in an amount
sufficient to satisfy such demand, besides cost, in which case
to take such undertaking. Several writs may be issued at the

same time to the Territorial Marshal, his deputy, or the Sheriff's ‘
’of different Counties.

. SEC. 126. The rights or shares which the defendant may

have in the stock of any co ration or com any, together

with the interest and roiits t erein, and all ebts due such

defendant, and all ot er pr0perty in this Territory of such

defendant not exempt from execution, may be attached, and

if judgment be recovered, be sold to satisfy the judgment and

executlon.

SEC. 127. The Territorial Marshal, his deputy, the Sheriff
of the County, or his deputy, to whom the writ is directed and
delivered shall execute the same without delay, and if the
undertaking mentioned in Section One Hundred and Twent six be not given—as follows: First—Real property shall
attached by leavin a copy ‘of the writ with the occupant
thereof; Or if there no occupant, by posting a cOpy m a
conspicuous lace thereon, and filing a co y, together with a
description 0 the property attached, with t e Recorder of the
County. Second—Personal prOperty capable of manual delivery shall be attached by taking it intocustody. Third—Stock
or shares, or interest in Stock or shares, of any corporation or
com any, shall be attached b leaving With the President,
or ot er head of the same, or t e Secretary, Cashier, or Managing Agent thereof, a copg of the writ, and a notice stating
the stock or interest of the efendant is attached in pursuance
of such writ. Fourth—Debts and credits, and other personal

roperty, not capable of manual delivery, shall be attached by

eaving with the erson owin such- debts, or having in his
possession, or un er his contro , such credits or other personal
lproggrty, a c0py of the writ, and a notice that the debts owin

y 'm to the defendant, or the credits or other perso
pr0perty in his possession or under his control belonging to
the defendant, are attached in pursuance of such writ.

SEC. 128. Upon receiving information in writing from the
plaintifff or his attorney, that any person has in his ossession,
ror under his control, any credlts or other erson pro rt
belongin to the defendant, or is owing any ebt to the de en ant, the erritorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the County, shall
serve upon such person a c0py of the writ, and a notlce that
such credits, or other prOperty or debts, as the case may be,
are attached in pursuance of such writ.

SEC. 129. All persons having in their possession, or
. under their control, any credits or other ersonal pro ert
' belonging to the defendant, or owing any de ts to the de en antat the time of service upon them of a c0py of the writ and
notice, as provided in the two last Sections, shall be, unless
811911 p rt is delivered 11 or transferred, or such debts be
.ald to t e erritorial ,Mars a1, or the Sheriff of the County,
able to theplaintifff for the amount of such credits, property
or debts, until the attachment be discharged, or any judgment
recovered by him be satisfied.

SEC. 130. Any person owing debts to the defendant, or
having in his possession or under his control any credits or
other personal pro erty, belonging to the defendant, may be‘
required to attend fore the Court, or Judge, or a referee appomted by the Court, or Judge, and be examined on oath
respecting the same. The defendant may also be required to
attend for the pu ose of giving information respecting his
prOpert , and mayrge examined on oath. The Court, or J udge,
may, a ter such examination, order personal property capa 1e
of manual delivery to be delivered togthe Territorial Marshal,
or the Sheriff of the County, on such terms as may be just,
having reference to an liens thereon or claims against the
Same, and a memorandyum to be given of all other personal

prOperty, containing the amount and description thereof.

SEC. 131. ‘ The Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the
County shall make a full inventory of the pr0perty attached,
and return the same with the writ. To enable him to make;
such returns as to debts and credits attached, he shall request, '
at the time of service, the part owing the debt, or having the
credit, to give him a memoran um stating the amount and descri tion of each; and if such memorandum be refused, he
sh return the fact of refusal with the writ. The party refusing to give the memorandum, may be required to pay the
costs of any proceeding, taken for the purpose of obta1 '
information respecting the amount and description of suc
debt or credit. ‘ '

, SEC. 132. If any of the property attached be perishable,
the Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the County, shall sell
the We in the manner in which such pr0perty is sold on

' execution. The roceeds and other property attached by him 3
shall be retainedgiy him, to answer any judgment that may‘
be recovered in the action, unless sooner subject to execution
upon another judgment recovered revious to the issuing of
the attachment. Debts and credits a ched ma ' be collected by
him, if the same can be done without suit. T e recei t of the
Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the County, s all be a
sufficient dischar for the amount paid.

SEC. 133. I an personal pro rt attached be claimed.
by a third person as his pmperty, t e erritorial Marshal, or:
the Sheriff of the County, may summon a jury of six men to 1
try the validity of such claim; and such proceedings shall be
had thereon, with the like effect, as in case of a claim after
levy upon execution.

SEC. 134. If judgment be recovered by the plaintifff, the ‘
Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the County, shall satisfyi
the same out of. the property attached by him which has not

been delivered to the defendant, or a claimant as hereinafter
provided, or subjected to execution on another judgment recovered revious to the issuing of the attachment, if it be
sufficient or that purpose: First—By paying to the plaintifff the
proceeds of all sales of perishable property sold by him, or of
any debts or credits collected by him, or :so much as shall be
necessa to satisfy the judgment. Second—If any balance
remain ' ue, and an execution shall have been issued on the
judgment, he shall sell under the execution, so much of the
property, real or personal, as may be necessary to satisfy the.
alance, if enough for that purpose remain in his hands.
. Notice of the sales shall be given, and the sales conducted as
in other cases of sales on execution.

SEC. 135.‘ If, after selling all {the property attached by
him remaining in- his hands, and applym the proCeeds,
together with the proceeds of any debts or cre 'ts collected by
him, deducting the fees, to the payment of the judgment, any
balance shall remain due, the Terntorial Marshal, or the Sheriff
of the County, shall proceed to collect such balance as u on
an execution in other cases. Whenever the judgment s all
have been paid, the TerritOrial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the
Count , upon reasonable demand, shall deliver over to the
defen ant the attached property remaining» in his hands, and
any protaeeds of the prOperty attached unapplied on the
ju gment. ’ ' ‘ " 5 ; f

SEC. 136. If the execution be "returned unsatisfied, in
whole or in part, the plaintifff ma prosecute any undertaking
given pursuant to Section One undred and Twenty-Six, or

ection One Hundred and Forty, or' he' may proceed as in other

cases upon the return of an execution. '

SEC. 137. If the defendant recover judgment against the
plaintifff, any undertaking received in the actiOn, all the roceeds of . sales and money collected by the Territorial Mars al,

,. or the Sheriff of the Count , and all the. ro erty attached
remainin in the hands -0 the Territoriaf ' arshal, or the
Sheriff 0 . the County shall be delivered to the defendant or
his agent; the order of attachment shall be discharged andvthe‘ property released therefrom.

SEC. 138. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared
in the action, he may ap 1y, upon reasonable notice to the
laintitf, to. the Court in wEich the aetion is pending, or to the
udge thereof, for an order to discharge the attachment, Wholly
or in part, upon the execution and filing 'Of the undertakin
mentioned in the next Section. Such . order may be grante
“directing the release from the operation of the attachment,”
upon the filing of such undertakin and the 'ustiiication of
the sureties thereon, if required by. t e plainti , of all or any
part of the property, money, debts 0r credits attached as the
case may be. All the proceeds of sales and moniescollected
by. the Territorial Marshal, or the Sherilf of the County, and
.a l the pro erty attached remaining in his hands, so released,

shall be de 'vered or paid to the defendant upon” the filing of

such undertaking and making such justification, if required
by the plaintifff. . . .

SEC. 139. On nting such order the Court or the Judge
shall require an un rtaking on behalf of the defendant, with
at least two sureties, residents and freeholders or householders .
in the County, which, shall be filed to the effect in case the‘
value of the propert or the amount of money, debts or.credits
sou htto be release shall'equal or exceed the amount claimed
by t e plaintifff in the complaint, that the defendant will pay
. to the. laintid'. the amount of the, judgment which ma be recoVere in favor of the. laintiff in the action, not excee ing the
sum Specified in the un ertaking, which shall be at least double
the amount so claimed by the laintiff; or to the effect", in case
the value of the r0perty or t e amonnt of money, debts or
credits sought to released shall be less than the amount so
claimed by the plaintifff, that the defendant will 'pay the
amount of such judgment, to the extent of the value of the
propert , or amount of money, or debts or credits sought to be
release , not exceeding the sum s cified, in the Undertaking,
which shall be at least double t e value of such prOpert -,
money, debts or credits. The value of such, pro rt sought
to be released, if disputed, shall be determined y the Court
or Judge thereof, upon proof, or by a sworn appraiser, or
sworn appraisers, not exceeding three, to be appomted by the
COurt or the Judge for that purpose. Before filing the undertaking the defandant shall serve a cOpy thereof upon the
plaintifff, and if the plaintifff require a justification by the
sureties, he shall " give notice thereof to ' the defendant within
two da s, or at the time of giving notice of motion for an order
to disc arge the attachment, the defendant ma in his notice
name the sureties; and if therplaintifff grequire t em to .justify,
he shall give notice thereof at the hearing of the :motion.’ -If
required, the sureties shall justify before (the Court in " which
the suit. is pending, or the Judge thereof, after reasonable
noticeuh '  “ 

SEC. 140. The defendant'lmay‘ also, any time before
the time of answering e ires, apply on motion, 11 .on reasona. ]
ble notice to the plainti , to the Court in which t e action is:
br0u%1i1:13, or to the Judge thereof, for the discharge, of the
attacd ent, on the . ground that, the writ was “ imprOperly
issue . t J ' a ‘

SEC. 141. If the motion be made upon affidavits onthe I
part of’ the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may 0
o pose the sameby affidavits or other evidence, in addition to °
t ose on which the writ of,attaeh1hent was issued.

SEC. 142. If upon such application, it shall satisfactoril

appear that the writ of attachment- :was. improperly issued, 113%

shall be. discharged. - ‘  ' a . . . , . . ‘ ‘r I 8,130; .143- The-TerritorialMarslIal, or the Sheriff of the
County, shall return the writ-of attachment with the surnmons, r
if issued at the same time; otherwise-within twenty days after.“
it's'rreceipt, with a certificate of his proceeding, indorsed. thereon
or attached thereto. - ' ‘ ' ‘ t

CHAPTER 5.—DEPOSIT IN COURT,

: SEC. 144. When it is admitted, by the pleading or examination of a party, that he has in h1s possession or under
.his control, any money or other t ' ca able of delivery,
which being the subject. of liti ation is eld y him as trustee
for another party, or which be ongs or is due to another party,
the Court may order the same, upon motion, to be deposited
in Court, or delivered to such party upon such conditions as
may be just, subject to the further direction of the Court.

SEC. 145. A receiver may be appointed by the Court in
which the action is pending, or by a Judge Ethereof: First——
Before judgment, rovisionally, on the ap lication of either
party, when he esta lishes a primafacz‘e rig t to the rcperty,
or an interest in the prOperty- which is the subject of t e action,
and which is in the possession of an adverse party, and the
pr0pert or its rents and proiits are in danger of being lost pr
materi y injured or impaired. Second—After judgment to
dispose of the pro rty according to the jud ent, or to preserve it during t e pendency of an appe ; and Third—In
such other cases as are in accordance with the practice of
Courts of Equity jurisdiction. ’

TITLE VI.
0f the Trial and Judgment in Civil Actions.

CHAPTER L—JUDGMENT IN GENERAL.

SEC. 146. A judgment is the final determination of the
rights of the parties in the action or proceeding, and may be
entered in term or vacation.

SEC. 147. Judgment may be given for or against one or
more of several plaintifffs, and for or 'nst one or more of
several defendants; and it may, when t e justice of the case
r uires it, determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each
si e, as between themselves. ‘

SEC. 148. In an action against several defendants, the
Court ma , in its discretion, render judgment. against one or
more of t em, leaving the action to proceed against the others
whenever a several judgment is roper.

SEC. 149. The relief grante to the plaintifff, if there be
no answer, shall not exceed that which he shall have demanded in his complaint; but in any other case the Court may
grant him any relief consistent With the case made by the complaint and embraced within the issue.

- SEC. 150. An action may be dismissed, or a judgment of
nonsuit entered in the following cases: First—By the plaintifff
himself at any time before trial, upon the payment of costs, 1f
a counterclaim has not been made. 'If a rovisional remedy
has been allowed, the undertaking shall t ereupon be delivered by the Clerk to the defendant, who may have his action

thereon. , Second—By either party u on the written consent
of the other. Third—By the Court w en the plaintifff fails to
a pear on the trial, and the defendant appears and asks for
t e dismissal. Fourth—By the Court, when u n trial and
before the final submission of the case the plaint' abandons it.
Fifth—By the Court, 11 on motion of the defendant, when
upon the trial. the plainti fails to rove a suf‘n‘cient case for
the jury. The dismissal mentione in the first two subdivisions shail be made by an entry in the Clerk’s register.
Judgment may thereupon be entered accordingly. In every
other case the judgment shall be rendered on the merits.

CHAPTER 2.—JUDGMENT UPON FAmURE TO _ANSWER.

SEC. 151. Judgment may be had, if the defendant failto
answer the com laint, as follows: First—In an action arisin
upon contract or the recovery of money or damages only, 1 .
no answer has been filed with the Clerk of the Court within 5
the time specified in the summons, or such further time as‘
may have been granted, the Clerk, upon the a plication of
the plaintifff, shall enter the default of the de endant, and
immediately thereafter enter. judgment for the amount s ciiiedinthe summons, including the costs against the defen ant,
or against one or more of several defendants, in the cases provided for in Section Thirty-Two. Second—In other actions,
if no answer has been filed with the Clerk of the Court within
the time 'speciiied in the summons, or such further time as may
have been granted, the Clerk shall enter the default of the
defendant; and thereafter the plaintifff may apply, at the first,
or any subse uent term of the Court, for the rehef demanded
in the comp aint. If the takin of an account, or the proof
of any fact,.be necessary to enab e the Court to give judgment,
or to carry the judgment into effect, the Court may take the
account, or hear the proof, or may, in its discretion, order a
reference for that purpose. And where the action is for the
recovery of damages, 1n whole or in part, the Court may order
the dam es to be assessed by a jury; or, if to determine the
amount 0 damages, the examination of a Ion acCount be
necessary, by reference, as above provided. Thir —In actions
where the service of summons was b publication, the laintiff, upon the expiration of the time esignated in the or er of
publication, may, 11 on proof of the publication, and that no
answer has been ii ed, applfy for ju ment; and the Court
shall thereupon re uire proo to be m e of the demand mentioned in the comp aint, and if the defendant be not a resident
of the Territory, shall require the plaintifff, or his agent, to be
examined on oath reSpecting any payments that have been
made to the (plaintifff, or to any one for his use, on account of

3

such deman and .may render judgment for the amount which
he is entitled to recover.

. CHAPTER 3.—OF, ISSUES AND THE MWR or THEIR
' ,Drsrosrrrox. '

SEC. 152. An issue arises when a fact or conclusion of

law is maintained b the one party, and controverted by the

’otiheér. Issues are c twokinds: First—0f law; and: Second—0 act. . ' ' ' o ‘ ‘ SEC. 153. An issue ,of law arises upon a demurrer to the
com laint, or an answer as to some part thereof.

EC. 154. An issue of fact arises: First—Upon amaterial
allegation in the complaint, controverted by the answer; and,
Second—Upon new matter in the answer, except an issue of
law is joined therein. ' ‘

SEC. 155. An issue of law shall be tried by the Court
unless it. be referred, upon consent, as provided in Chapter Six
of this Title. . . .,

‘ SEC- 156. An issue of. fact shall be tried .b ajury, unless
a jury trial is waived, or a reference be ordere as provided in
this Act. Where there are issues, both of law and fact, to the
same complaint, the issue of law shall be first disposed of.

, SEC. 157. ,The Clerk shall enter cases upon the calendar

,of the Court according to the date of the issue, unless otherwise provided b rule of Court.

SEC. 158. ither party may bring the issue-to trial, or
to a hearin , and in the absence of the adverse party,unless
-the Court or good cause otherwise direct, may-proceed with
the case and. take a dismissal of the action, or a verdict or
judgment, as the case may require. . I ‘ . .

SEC. 159. A motion to postpOne a trial, on the ground of
the absence of evidence, shall only be made upon affidavit

»showing the materiality of the evidence eXpected to be ob-'
:tained, and that due diligence has been’used to procure it. The
Court may also require the moving party to state, 11 n affidavit,“ the evidence which he ex ‘ects to obtain; an if the
adverse party thereupon admit t at such evidence would be
given, and that it be considered as actually given on the trial,
or offered and overruled as imprOper, the trial shall not be
postponed. ' The party obtaining the postponement of a trial
shal also, if required by the adverse party, consent that the
testimony of any witness of such adverse party, who is in
attendance, be then taken b deposition before a Judge or
Clerk of the Court in which t e case is pendi , or before such
other officer as the Court may indicate, whichnsiall accordingl
' be done, and the testimony so taken may be-read on the trial w1t
the same effect, and subject to the same ob'ections as if the
witnessess were produced. In actions. invofving the title to
mining claims and uartz 1e es, if it be made to appear to
the satisfaction of t e Court t at in order that justice may be
done, and the action fairly tried on its real merits, it is neces.sary that further deveIOpments should be made, and that the
party applying has been guilty of no laches and is acting in
goo faith, the Court shall' grant the postponement of the

trial of the action, giving the party a reasonable time in which
to prepare for trial. And in granting such postponement, the
Court may, in .its- discretion,'annex as a condition thereto, an
order that the party obtaining such postponement shall not,
pending the trial of the action, remove from the premises
1n contmversy, any valuable'quartz rock, earth or' ores, and for
any violation of an order so made; the Court,'=or Judge thereof, may punish for contempt, as in the cases of violation of an
order of injunction, and may also ‘vacate 'th'e‘o'rder of postponement. ' ‘ -  ' ' ' »- a '

* ingHAPTERAr—Tnm is gen,
 of the Jury.

. SEC. 160. When the actionis called for trial by jury, the

Clerk shall prepare seperate' ballots, containing the. names of ;
the jurors summoned who have. appeared and not, been 4
excused, and deposit them in a box. He shall thendraw from
the box! twelve names, and the rsons whose names are drawn
shall censtitute the jury. the . ballots become exausted
before the jury is com lete,.or if from any cause a juror or
jurors :be eXcused or disc arged, the Territorial Marshal, or the
Sheriff of the County shall summon, under the direction of
Court, from, the citizens of the County, and not from bystanders, so man qualified persons as may be necessary to complete
the jury. he jury shall consist of twelve persons, unless the
parties consent to a less number. The partles may consent to
any number not less than four, Such consent shall be entered
by the Clerk in the minutes of the trial.

SEC. 161. As soon as the jury is completed, an oath or.
aftirmation shall be administered to the jurors, in substancej
thatthey, each of them,  well and [truly tryithe imatter in
issue between—.T—é, the plaintifff, and—e—e‘———, the defendant, and that they will, have no communication. with any
person. .onzthe subject matter of the trial, ~except with a fellow
juror, until they have. agreed- upon their verdict, or been
dischar ed by. the Court, and a true verdict‘rendered» according to t e law and the evidence. If the jury,,sha..]l.retire,.to
deliberate'upon their verdict; the shall be placed in charge of
the Territorial Marshal, or the; heriff of the County, who

, sha11,keep} them separate and. apart from all others, and from
separating, until they shall. have agreed upon their Iverdict, or
been discharged {by the. Courts If , necessary, it shall. be the
dutgjof- the Territorial Marshalyor the Sheriff . of .the County,
if; t .e charge of the parties to, the action, to provide, food or
9311132, _ a  ;_ ' ‘1 W ., 1".

,‘ 3 SEC. 162. Either party may challenge the jurors, but
when there are several parties on either side, they shall join in t
a challenge before it can be made, unless; the Court otherwise

order or direct. The challenges shall be to individual jurors, and

shall be peremptory or for cause. Each party shall be entitled
to six perempto challenges. . ‘ '

SEC. 163. hallenges for cause ma be taken on one or
more of the followin rounds: First-— - want- of any of the
L- qualifications prescri by statute to render a erson competent as a juror. Second—Consan inity wit 'n-lthe :third
degree to "either party. Third— tanding in the relation
of debtor or creditor, guardian and ward, master and servant,
employer and clerk, or principal and agent to either party; or
being a member of the amily of either gearty; or a partner, or
united in business with either party; or ing secunty on an
bond or obligation for either party. Fourth—Having serv
as a juror or been a witness on a previous trial between the
same parties for the same cause of action; or being then a
witness therein. Fifth—Pecuniary interest on the part of the
juror in the event of the action, or in the main question involved in the action; except the interest of the juror as a member
or citizen of a municipal corporation. Sixth—Having formed
or expressed an unqualified Opinion 'or belief as to the merits ’
of the action; or the main question involved therein; provided,
that the readin of newspaper accounts of the subject matter
before the 0011 shall not disqualify a juror either for bias or
Opinion. Seventh—The existence of a state of mind in the
juror, evincing' enmity against, or bias to either party.

' SEC. 164. Challen s for cause shall be tried by the
Court. The juror chal en d, and an other person may be
examined as a witness on t e trial of t e challenge. ARTICLE IL
Conduct of the. m2.“

SEC. 165. If, after the Mpanneling of the jury, and
before a verdict, a 'uror become. sick, so as to be unable to
Krform his duty, 1; e Court may order him to be discharged.

that case the trial shall roceed with the other jurors:
provided, the jury be not uced to less than two-thirds of
the original number sworn. Should the jury be reduced to a
less number than two-thirds from such cause, the remaining
jurors shall be discharged, and a new jury may then'or‘ afterwards be impanneled. ' ‘ ‘ ' - I '

' SEC. 166.‘ In charging the jury, the Court shall state to
them; such matters of law as it "thinks necessary for their
information. in giving their verdict, and shall give, or refuse to
give, such. other instructions, u on points of ‘law as either
partlyr may request; and if it sta the testimony of" the case,
it s all also inform the ‘ury that they  h exclusive
judges of all questions 0 fact. The Court shall furnish to ~
either party, at the time, upon request, a statement in writing
of the points of law contained in the charge, or- shall sign, at
the. We, a statement of such points prepared and submitted
by the counsel of : either party. ' j
» "SEC. 167. After hearing the charge, the jury may either

decide in Court, or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they j
shall be ke t together in a room or some other convenient‘
place provided for them, under the cha ' of one or more ‘
ofli'cer, until the agree upon their verdic , or are discharged
by the Court. he officer shall, to the utmost of his abiht ,
keep the jury separate from other rsons;-he shall not su er
any communicationto be made to t em, or make any himself, ‘
unless by order of the Court, exceEt to ask them if they have,
, agreed upon their verdict; and he .s all not, before the verdict
is rendered, communicate to any' person the, state of their
deliberations, or the verdict agreed u on. . .

SEC. 168. Upon retirin fer de beration,the 'ury may
take with them all papers except depositions) w 'ch have
beenreceived as evidence in t e cause, or copies 0f such papers
as ought not, in the opinion of the Court, to be taken from the
person having them 1n possession; and they may also take
with them notes of the testimony, or other roceedin s on
the trial, taken by themselves or any of them; ut none ken
by. any other person. _ ' . ' SEC. 169.; After the jury have retired for deliberation, if

there be a disagreement between them as to any part of the
testimOny, or if they desire to be informed of any point of law
_ arising in the cause, they may require the officer to conduct
them into Court. Upon thelr being brought into COurt, the
information required shall be given in the presence of, or after
notice to, the parties or counsel. . . '
, SEC. 170. In all cases where a jury are discharged, or
prevented from giving a verdict b reason of accident or other
cause ;, during the progress of t e trial, or after the cause is
submitted to them, the action may be $3 tried, immediately
or at a future time, as the Court shall ’ ct. .

SEC. 171. While the jury are absent, 'the Court may
a'oum, from time to time in respeCt to other business, but 1t
s all- nevertheless be deemed Open for every  connected with the cause submitted to the jury until a verdict is
rendered or the jury discharged. The Court, may. direct the
jury to bring in a sealed verdict at the Opening of the Court,
1n case of an agreement during a recess or adjournment for the
day. A final adjournment of the Court for the term shall
discharge the jué-Vy. .

SEC. 172. ‘ hen the jury have agreed upon their verdict

they shall be conducted into Court by the officer having them
. in charge. ' Their names shall be called, and they shall be
asked by the Court, or the Clerk, whether they have agreed
upon their verdict; and if the foreman answer in the affirmative, they shall deliver the same to the Clerk. '
' SEO. 17 3. If the verdict be informal or insuHicient in not
covering the whole issue or issues submitted, the verdict
may be corrected by the jury under the advice of the Court, or
the jury may again- be sent out. ' '

' ' SEC. 174. When the verdict is given, which must be by
unanimous agreement, except by the censent. of parties, 1t
shall be read aloud .by the Clerk in Open Court, and if not

informal or insufficient, it Shall immediately. be recorded in
full in the minutes. . . e " s - ‘

ARTICLE 3;
The ‘ Verdict. ,

SEC. 175. The verdict of the, jury, is either general or
special, A general verdict is that by which they' pronounce
generally 11 on all or any of the issues, either in favor of the
plaintifff or efendant; a s ecial verdict is that by which the
'ury iind. the facts only, caving the judgment to the“ Court.

he special verdict shall present the conclusions of fact as
estabhshed by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove
them; and those conclusions of fact. shall be so presented as
that nothing shall remain to the Court butfto draw from them
conclusion of law. b All verdicts shall be given in Writing and
be si ned by the foreman of the jury; .

EC. 17 6. When a verdict 1s found for the laintiff, in' an
action ‘for the recovery of money, or for the ‘de end’ant,‘ when
a counterclaim for the reco'Very of money is established
exceeding .the amount of the plaintifff" s claim as established,
the jury shall also find the amOunt of the recovery. ' ' .

. SEC. 177). In an action for the recovery of specihc’
personal propert ,_if the rcperty has not been delivered to
the plaintlff, or t e defen ant, b his answer, claima return
' thereof, the fury, if their verdict e in favor of the laintiff, or
if, being in avor of the defendant, they also fin  that helis
entitled to a return thereof, shall iind the valueo‘f‘ the property, and may, at the same time, assess the damages, if any
are claimed in the complaint or answer, which; the prevailin
party has sustained by reason of the taking or detention o
suchproperty.‘ " 7' ' ' ‘ ' ,-  

SE0; 178. “U on receiving, a verdict, an entry, shall be
.made by the Cler. in the minutes of the Court, Specifyin the
time of ltrial, the-names of the jurors and” witnesses, an the
verdict; and where a special verdict is found, either the
judgment rendered, thereon, or if the _ case 'be reServed for
argument pr futher “consideration, the order, thus reserving it.

' 3CHABTER.5.'—TRIAL BY cover. 

SEC, 179., ,Trialb jury may bewaived" .by the several
parties to an issue of act. in actions arising :01]: contract, and
with the assent of . the. Court in other actions", inzthewmanner
following: First-_—.+By failing to ap ear atwthe‘ trial; Seconds;
B written ‘eonsent, in: person, or- ' y attorney, filed with the
012m, Third—By. :oral consent in open’ Court-,- entered in the
minuteseW  ~; :  - ' .f   ‘ «.

SEC. 180. Upon the trial of an issue of fact b the'Court,
its decision shall be given in writing, and filed wit the Clerk,
within ten days after the trial shall have taken place. In
giving the-decision, the facts found and the conclusions of law

shall be separately stated. Judgment upon the decision shall
be entered accordlngly. SEC. 181. On a ‘udgment upon an issue of law, if the
taking of an account be necessary to enable the court to com:
plete the judgment, a reference may be ordered. Chancery
cases may be tried by the Court, with or without the finding
of a jury, upon issues designated by the Court.

CHAPTER 6.-—0F REFERENCES AND TRIAL BY REFEREE.

SEC. 182. A reference may be ordered upon, the agreement of the parties, filed with the Clerk, or entered in the
minutes. First—to try any or all of the isSues in an action or
proceeding, whether of fact or of law, and to report a. jud ment thereon. Second—To ascertain a fact necessary to enab e
' the Court to proceed and determine the case.

SEC. 183. When the parties. do not consent, the Court
_ may, upon the application of either, or of its own motion,
direct a reference 1n the following cases: First—When the trial
of an issue of facts requires the“ examination of a long-account
on either side; in which case the referees may be directed to
hear and decide the whole issue, or, report u On any specific
question of fact involved therein. Second— hen the taking
of an account is necessary for the information of the Court
before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order into
effect. Third—When a question of fact, other than upon
the pleadings, arises upon motion orotherwise in any stage. of
the action; or, Fourth—4When it is necessary fOr the information of the Court in a Special proceeding. ~ - '

SEC. 184'. A reference may be ordered to- any person or
persons, not exceeding three, agreed u on by‘the parties. If
the parties do not agree, the COurt or udge shall a’ point one
or more referees, not exceedingthree, who reSide in t e County,
in which the action or proceeding is triable, and against whom
there is no legal objectlon. , q j . , H f .

SEC. 185. Either party may Object! to the a ppointment
of an person as referee on one or more of t e; following
groun s: First—A want of any of the qualifications prescribed
by statute to render a person competent as a. juror. Second—
Consanguinity within the third de ree to either arty._ Third
-_—Standing in the relation .of guar ian and war. , master and
servant, employer and clerk,.or princi a1 and. agent to either
party, or belng. a member. of the fami y of either , party, or a

artner in business with either party, or being scourity on .an
Bond or obligation for either party“, Fourth—éHavin Zserve
as a juror. or being a witness ,onVan’y trial between t e same
parties for the same cause of, aetion, or being then a. witness in.
the cause. -14‘ifth,—-Pecuniary2 interest on the part. of ‘ such
person in. the. event. of the . action, . or in, the main question
involved in the action. Sixth—Having fanned or’ expressed
_ an unq ualined Opinion or belief as to the merits of the action.

Seventh—eThe existence of a state of mind in such person
evincing enmity against or bias to either party.

I SEC. 186. The objections taken to the a point-ment of any
person as referee shall be heard and dispose of by the Court.
Affidavits may be read and any person examined as a witness
as to such objections.

SEC. 187. The referees shall make their report within ten
days after the testimon before them is closed. Their report;
upon the whole issue s all stand as the decision of the Court,
and upon filing the report with the Clerk of the Court, judgment may be entered thereon in the same manner as if the
action had been tried by the Court. The decision of the
referees may be excepted to' and reviewed in like manner as if
made by the Court. When the reference is to report the facts,
the report shall havethe effect of a special verdict.

CHAPTER 7.-—GENERAL Pnovrsrorvs RELATING TO TRIALS.

ARTICLE I.
Exceptions.

SEC.~ 188. An exception is an objection taken at the trial
to a decision upon a matter of law, whether such trial be by
jury, Court or referees, and whether the decision be made
during the formation of a jury, or in the admission of evidence,
or in the charge to a jury, or at any other time from the call~
ing of the action for trial to the rendering ,of the verdict or
decision. . But no exception shall be regarded on a motion for
a new trial, or on an appeal, unless the exception be‘material,
and affect the substantlal ri hts of the parties.

SEC. 189. The point 0 the exception 'shall be articularly
stated, and may be delivered in writing to the ud e, or, if '
the party require it, shall be written down by th Clerk.
When delivered in'writing, or written down by the Clerk, it
shall be made conformable to the truth, or be at the time corrected until it is so made conformable. When not delivered
in writing or written down as above, it may be entered in the
Judge’s minutes and afterwards settled in a statement of the
case, as provided in this Act: provided, that if the Judge shall
in an case refuse to allow an exception in aCcordance with
the acts, any party aggrieved thereby may tition the
Sn reme Court for leave prove the same, an s all have the
rig tsoto do, in such mode and manner, and according to
suchregulations as the supreme Court may by rules 1.1116088,
and such exceptions as are allowed by said Supreme ourt
shall become a {wartof the mad of the cause. ‘

SEC. - 190. j o particular form of exception shall be
required. The, objection shall be stated with so much of the
evidenCe, or other matter, as is neCessary to explain it, but no
more, and the whole as briefly aspossible. '

' . SEC. 191. When a cause has been tried b the‘Court, or
b referees, and the decision or' report is not m e immediate]
’ ter the closing of the testirmny, the decision or réport sh

be deemed excepted to on motion for a new trial or on appeal,
without any Special notice that an exception is taken thereto.

ARTICLE 2.

New Zrials.

' SEC. 192; A new trial is a reexamination of an issue of]
fact in the same Court after atrial and decision by a. a jury,
Court, or referees.

‘ SEC. .193. The former verdict or other decision may be
‘vacated and a new trial granted on the application of the party 1
aggrieved for any of the following causes materially affecting ‘
the substantial rights of such party: First-—--Irregularity in the
proceeding of the Court, jury, or adverse party, or any order
of the Court, or abuse of discretion. by WhJCh either party was
prevented from having a fair trial. Second—Misconduct of
the jury. Third—Accident, or surprise, which ordin prudence could not have guarded against. Fourth— ewly
discovered evidence, material for the party making the aiphcation, which he could not with reasonable dihgence ave
discovered and produced at the trial. Fifth—Excessive
damages. Sixth—Insudidency of the evidence to justify the
verdict or other decision; or that it is against law. Seventh—
Error in law occurring at the trial and accepted to by the party
making the application.

.SEC. 194. When the a plication is made for a cause,
mentioned in the first, secon , third and fourth subdivisions1
of the last Section, it shall be .made upon affidavit; for any
other cause it shall be made upon a statement prepared, as
provided in the next Section.

‘ SEC. 195. The arty intending to move for a new trial
shall give notice of t e same as follows: When the action has
been tried by a jury, within five da s after the rendition of
the verdict, and when the action has ‘ n tried by the Court
or by a referee within ten days after receiving written notice of
the rendering of the decision of the Jud e, or of the filing the
report of the referee. The notice shal designate generally
the girounds'f upon which the motion will be'made. Within
five ays after giving such notice, the said party shall preare and file wit the Clerk the affidavit or statement required
y the last Section. A COpy of the affidavit shall on the same
day be served on the adverse party. The party prefparing the
statement shall number the p s and lines thereo ,
havin filed the same with t e Clerk, and had .such filing
entere and indorsed, shall serve the‘ same on the adverse
party on the same day, who may pro * amendments thereto,
referrin‘ to the page and line of he statement, and shall
within ve days after the service on him of the statement, me
his amendment with the Clerk, and after having such filing
entered and indorsed, shall on the same day serve the same
with the statement upon the moving party, who shall within
five days thereafter give written no cc to the adverse party if

he declines admitting the amendments or they shall be deemed
accepted. At any time thereafter either party ma have the

statement settled by the Judge or referee upon two ays’ notice
thereof to the other party. If no affidavit or statement be

filed within five days after the notice of new trial, the right to
move for a new trial shall be . deemed waived. When the
notice designates as the ground upon which the motion will
be made the insufficiency of the ev1dence, to fjustify the verdict
, or other decision, the statement shall s i y the particulars
in which such evidence is alleged to insufiicient. . When
the notice deSignates as the ground of the motion; error in law
occurring at the trial and excepted to by. the moving part , the
statement shall specify the particular errors upon which the
party will rely. ‘ If no such s cidcat'ions be made, the statement shall be disregarded. he statement shall contain so
much of the evidence or reference thereto as may be necessary
to explain the particular points thus s iiied and no more.
When the statement. is agreed to it shall accompanied with
the certificate either of the parties themselves in fact, or their
attorney, that the same has been agreed upon and is correct.
When settled by the Judge on referee, it shall be accompanied
with his certificate that the same has been allowed by him and
is correct. When no amendments have been filed the statement shall be accompanied with the certidcate of the Clerk
of that fact. On the argument, reference may also be made to
the pleadings, depositions and documentary evidence ,on file,
testimony taken and written out by a short-hand reporter,
authorized by the; Court to take the same, and the minutes of
the Court. If . the' application be made upon aiiidavits
filed, the adverse part may use counter aflidavrts on the hearing. Any counter afli avits shall be ’dled with the Clerk and
coPies served on the moving party, at least two days previous
to the hearing. The affidavits and counter af‘n‘davits, or the
statement thus used, in connection with such pleadin s,
depositions, documentary evidence on file, testimony taken %y
a re orter and minutes of the Court as are read or referred to
on t e hearing, shall constitute, without further statement,
the papers. to be used on a peal from the order grantin or
refusing the new trial. To i entify the affidavits, it sh be
sufficient for the Judge or Clerk to-indorse them at the time as
having been read or“ referred to on the hearing- To identify
any depositions, documentary evidence on file, testimony taken
by a reporter, or minutes of the. Court read or referred teen
the hearing, it shall be. sufficient, that the - Judge designate
them, as having been. read orreferred to.in his certificate to be
for that purpose by him made thereon. The severel periods
of time limited may be enlarged by the written agreement of
the parties, or u on good cause shown by the Court, or' the
J udge, before w om the cause was tried. ' ~ . EC. 196. The application fora new trial shall be (made
at the earlest . period practicable after ’dling the affidavit or
statement, and the Court or Judge granting or refusing a new
trial shall state in writin generally the grounds upon which

the same is granted or re used.

SEC. 197. When trial by jury has been had, judgment
shall be entered by the Clerk .in conformity to the verdict,
' within twenty-four hours after the rendition of the verdict,
unless the Court order the case to be reserved for argument
or further consideration, or grant a stay of roceedmgs.

SEC. 198. , When the case is reserve for argument or
further consideration, as mentioned in the last Section, it may

be brought by either party before the Court for argument.
' SEC. 199. If a counterclaim, established at the trial,
exceed the plaintifff’s demand, so established, judgment for
the defendant shall be given. for the excess; or, if it appear
that the defendant is entitled to any other afiirmative relief,
judgment shall be given accordingly. ‘

SEC. 200. In an action to recover the ossession of personal pr0perty, judgment for the plainti may be for the
possession, or the value thereof, in case a delivery cannot be
had, and damages for the detention, or the value 0f the use
thereof. If the prOperty have been delivered to the plaintifff,
and the defendant claim a return thereof, judgment‘for the
defendant may be for a return of the propert , or the value
thereof, in case a return cannot be had, an dam es for
taking and withholding the same, or the value of t e use
thereof. In an action on a contract or obligation for the direct
payment of ‘money, judgment for the plaintifff, whether the
same be by default or after verdict, or decision of the Court or
referee, shall be for money only. And in an action against
any person for the recovery of money received by such person
in a fiduciary capacity, or to the use of another, judgment for
the laintiff, whether the same be by default or after verdict,
or ecision of the Court or referee, may be made pa able in
the same kind of money or currency so receive y such
person. ‘

SEC. 201. The Clerk shall keep among the records of the
Court a book for the entry of judgment, to be called the
“Judgment Book,” in which each judgment shall specify
clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the'action.

SEC. 202. If a arty die after a verdict or decision upon
any issue of fact, an before judgment, the Court may never- .
theless render judgment thereon. Such judgment shall not be
a lien on the real pr0perty of the deceased party, but shall be
payable in the course of administration upon his estate.

SEC. 203. Immediately after entering the judgment the
Clerk shall attach together and file the following papers,
which shall constitute the judgment roll: First—In case the
complaint be not answered by any defendant, the summons,
with the affidavit or proof of service, and the complaint, witha memorandum indorsed on the complaint that the default of
the defendant in not answering was entered, and a copy of the
judgment. Second—In all other cases the summons, pleadin s, verdict and a c0p of the judgment, and any orders
re ating to a change of t e parties. SEC. 204. Immediately after filing a jud ent roll the
Clerk shall make the ro r entries 0 the ju gment, under
approgriate heads, in t e ocket ke t by him, and from the
time t e judgment is docketed it sh become a lien upon all
the real property of the jud ent debtor not exempt from
execution in the county, own by him at the rendition of the
judgment, in his own right. The lien shall continue for two
years, unless the judgment be previously satisfied. But the
time during which the execution of the judgment is suspended
by appeal or action of the Court or defendant, shall not be
com uted. . ’

no. 205. The docket mentioned in the last Section is a
book which the Clerk shall keep in his office with each page
divided into columns: judgment debtors; judgment creditors;

_ judgment; time of entry; where entered in judgment book;
appeals; when taken; judgment of €ppellate Court; satisfaction of judgment; when entered. judgment be for the
recove of money or damages, the amount shall be stated in
the doc et under the head of judgment; if the judgment be for
any other relief, a memorandum of the general character of the

v relief granted shall be stated. The names of the defendants
shall be entered in the docket in alphabetical order.

SEC. 206. The docket kept by the Clerk shall be Open at

. all times during office hours for the inspection of the public,
without charge; and it shall be the dut of the Clerkto arra
the several dockets kept by him in sue a manner as to fac' 'tate their inspection.

SEC. 207. A transcript of the original docket, certified by
the Clerk, may be filed w1th the Recorder of any other County,
and, from the time of the filing the judgment, shall become
a lien upon all the real property of the judgment debtor‘not
exempt from execution in such County, owned b him at the
rendition of the judgment in his own right. he lien shall

- continue for two years, unless the judgment be previously
satisfied. But the time during which the execution of the
judgment is suspended by appeal, or action of the Court or
defendant, shall not be computed.

SEC. 208. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in
the Clerk’s docket upon an execution returned satisfied, or
upon an acknowledgment of satisfaction filed wtth the Clerk,
made in, the manner of an acknowled ent of a conveyance
of real pmperty, by the judgment ore 'tor, or within one year
after the jud ent, by the attorne , unless a recovation of
his authority e previously filed. henever a judgment shall
be satisfied in fact, otherwise than upon execution, it shall be
the duty of the party or attorney to give such acknowledgment, and upon motion the court may compel it, or may order
the entry of satisfaction to be made without it.

TITLE VII.
0f the Execution of the Judgment in Civil Actions.

CHAPTER 1.—THE EXECUTION.

SEC. 209. The party in whose favor judgment is given,
may at any time within three years after” the entry thereof,
issue a writ of execution for its enforcement, as prescribed in
this Chapter.

SEC. 210. The writ of execution shall be issuedin the
name of the Territor of Utah; sealed with the seal of the
Court, and subscribe by the Clerk, and shall be directed to
the Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the County, and shall
inteHigiblK refer to the judgment, stating the Court, the
Countg w ere the judgment roll is filed, the name of the parties, t e judgment, an if it be for money, the amount thereof,
and the amount actually due thereon, and if made payable in
a. specihed kind of money or currency as provided 1n Section
Two hundred, the execution shall also state the kind of mone
or currenc in which the 'udgment is pfayable, and shal
require, su tautially as fo ows: First-— 11'. be against the
property of the judgment debtor it shall require the officer to
satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of the personal property
of such debtor, and if sufficient personal property cannot be
found, then out of his real property; or 11' the judgment be
a lien upon real prOperty be on ' g to him on the day when
the judgment was docketed, or i the execution be issued to a
County other than the one in which the jud ent was recovered, on the da when the transcript of the ocket was filed
in the office 0 the Recorder of ~ such County, stating such
day. Second—If it be against real or rsonal prOperty in the
hands of the ersonal representatives,- eirs, devisees, legatees,
tenants of property, or trustees, it shall require the odicer
to satisf the judgment with interest out of such pr0perty.
Third— it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it
shall require the officer to arrest such debtor, and commit him
to the jail of the County until he pay the judgment with
interest or be discharged according to law. Fourth—If it be
issued on a judgment made ayable in a specified kind of
money or currency as rovideld in Section Two Hundred, it
shall also require the o cer to satisf the same in the kind of
money or currenc in which said ju gment is made payable,
and the ofIicer s all refuse payment in an other 'nd of
money or currency; and in case of levy and e of the prOperty
of the judgment debtor, he shall refuse ayment from any
purchaser at such sale in any other kin of money or currency than that specified in the execution. The oilicer collectin
money or currency in the manner required by this Act, sh
pay to the plaintifff or party entitled to recover the same, the
same kind of money or currency received by him, and in case
of neglect or refusal to do so, he may be liable on his odicial

bond to the judgment creditor in any sum not. exceeding

double the amount of money so collected. Fifth—If it be for
the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, it
shall require the officer to deliver the possession of the same
particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and
may at the same time require the officer to satisfy any costs,
damaoes, rents, or profits, recovered by the same judgment
out of the personal pr0perty of the party against whom It was
rendered, and the value of the prOperty ,for which the 'udgment was recovered, to be specified therein; if a defivery
thereof cannot be had, and 1f suiiicient personal property
cannot be found, then out of real property, as provided 1n the
first subdivison of this Section. '

SEC. 211. When a writ of execution is issued on a judgment recovered against two or more persons in an action upon
, a joint contract, in which action all the defendants were not
Served with summons, or did not a ar, it shall direct the
Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff 0 t e Count ,‘to satisfy the
judgment out of the joint propert of all the efendants and
the individual property only 0 the defendants who were
served, or who appeare in the action. In other reSpects the
writ shall contain the directions specified in Subdivisions Oneand Four of the last Section.

SEC. 212. The execution may be returnable at any time,
not less than ten, nor more than mnety da s after its receipt by
the officer to the Clerk with whom the ju gment roll is filed.

SEC. 213. When a jud ent requires the payment of
money),e or the delivery of re or personal prOperty, the same
shall inforced in those r6spects by execution.

SEC. 214. Where it re uires the performance of any
other act, a certified COpy of t e judgment may be served upon
the part against whom it is given, or upon the person or
officer w 0 1s required thereby, or by law, to obey the same
and his obedience thereto inforced. .

SEC. 215. Notwithstanding the death of a party after
the jud ent, execution thereon may be issued, in case of the
death 0 the plaintifff”, the same as if he were living, upon the
application of his executor, or administrator, or successor in
interest, to the Court in which the judgment was rendered; and
in case of the death of the defendant, if the judgment be for
the recovery of real or personal property, execution may be
issued against such prOperty, in the same manner and with
the same effect as if he were still living.

SEC. 216. Where the execution is against the prOperty of
the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the Territorial
Marshal, or the Sheriff of an County in the Territory.
Where it'requires the delivery 0 real or personal pro rt , it
shall be issued to the Territorial Marshal, or the Sheri o the
County, where the property, or some part thereof, is situated.
Executions may be. issued at the same time 'to different
Counties. ‘ - * ‘ '

SEC. 217. All goods, chattels, monies, and other property, real and personal of the judgment debtor, or any
interest therein 0 the judgment debtor not exempt by law, ‘

and all propert and rights of r0perty seized an held under
attachinent in t 6 action, shall hable to execu on. . Shares
and interests in any corporation or company, and debts and
credits, and other property not capable of manual delivery, may
be attached in execution in like manner as upon writs of attachment. ' Gold dust and bullion shall be returned by the officer
as so much money collected, at its current value, without
exposing the same to sale. Until a levy, personal property
shall not be affected by the execution. ‘

’SEC. 218. If the prOperty levied on be claimed by a;

thirldmperson as his prOpert , the Territorial Marshal, or the:
She ' of the County, sha summon from the County six]
persons qualified as jurors between the parties, to try the
validity of the claim. He shall also give notice of the claim
and of the time of trial to the” plaintifff, who may appear and
contest the claim before the jury. The jury and the witnesses
shall be sworn by the Ofiicer, and if their verdict be' in favor of
the claimant, the Officer may relinquish the levy, unless the
judgment creditor gives him a suiiic1ent indemnity for proceeding thereon. The ees of the jury, Ofiicer and the witnesses,
shall be paid by the claimant, if the verdict be against him;
otherwise by the laintifl‘. SEC. 219. T e following property shall be exempt from.
execution, except as herein otherwrse provided: First—Chairs,:
tables, desks and books, to the value of one hundred dollars, ‘
belonging to the judgment debtor. Second—Necessary household, tab e and kitchen furniture, belonging to the judgment
debtor, including stoves, not to exceed one stove for every five
persons of the family, stove pi and stove furniture, wearing
apparel: one bedstead, one b and the necessary beddin for
every two persons in the family, and provisions and ,fue for
the family sufficient for sixty days. ‘ Third—The farming
utensils or implements of husbandry of the judgment debtor,
also, two oxen, or two horses, or two- mules, and their harness,
one cow and calf for every five persons in the family, one cart
or wagon, and food ‘ for: such oxen, horses, cows or mules for
sixty days; also, all seed grain, or vegetables actually provided, reserved, or on hand for the purpose of planting or"
sowing at any time within the ensuing six months, not exceeding in value one hundred dollars. Fourth—The tools, tool
chest and implements of a mechanic or artisan, recessary to
carry on his trade, the instruments and chests of a surgeon,
physician, surveyor, and dentist, necessary to the exercise of
their rofessions, with their scientific and professional libraries,
and t e law libraries of an attorney or counselor, and the
libraries of ministers of the gospel. Fifth—The tent or cabin
of a miner, including a table, camp stools, bed and bedding,
and neces, tools used in mining, not exceeding the value of
four hundre dollars, with provisions necessary to his support
for thirty days. Sixth—Two oxen, or two horses, or two mules
and their harness, and one cart or w on, by the use of which.
a cartman teamster or other laborer haaiitually earns his living,
and food for such oxen, horses or mules for sixty days; and a

horse, harmless and vehicle used by, a physician, surgeon 01
minister of the gospel in. making, {his rofe‘ssional visits.
Seventh—One sewing machine, not: excee 'ng in value one
hundred dollars, in actual use  the debtor or his family.
If the debtor be head of a fami , there shall be . a further
exem tion from execution of live ead of sheepand the wool
there rom, for every person in his family, two hogs and three
pigs under three months old, and the necessary food for all
such animals for sixty days. a All flax raised by thedebtor and
the manufactures therefrom, and all cloth manufactured in
the family of the debtor, for their own use. All Spinning
wheels and looms and other instruments of domestic labor
kept for family use. The earnings of such debtor for his personal
service, or those of his family, at any time within sixty days
next receding the levy are also exem t from execution.

Eight -—All fire engines, hooks and lad ers, with the carts,
trucks and carriages, hose, buckets, implements and apparatus
thereto appertaimng, and all furniture and uniforms of any
fire company or department now existing, or which ma be,
under the laws of this Territo , hereafter organized. inth
—All arms, ammunition, uni orms and accoutrements, required by, law to be ke t by an erson. Tenth—All court
houses, jails, public 0 ces an uildings, school houses,
houses of pubhc worship, lots, grounds and personal pr0perty
appertaining thereto; the fixtures, furniture, books, papers,‘
a appurtenances belonging and pertaining to the court
house, jail and public offices belonging to any Count in this
Territory, or for the use of schools or houses 0 public
worshi , and all cemeteries, public squares, parks and laces,
public uild' s, town halls, ublic markets, buildings or the
use of the fire epartments an military organizations, and the
lots and grounds thereto belongin and ap ertaining, owned
or held by any town or incorporate cit , or edicated b such
town or city to health, ornament, or pu lic use, or for t e use
of any fireor military com any, now existing, or which ma

be, under the laws. of t 's ~Territo hereafter organize .
Eleventh—If the debtor be the head 0 the family,there shall
be a further exemption of a homestead, to be selected by the
debtor, consisting of lands, together with the appurtenances
and improvements thereon, not exceeding in value one thousand dollars for the judgment debtor, and the further sum of
two hundred and fifty dollars for each member of the family.
If the homestead selected by the debtor is of a greater value
than is exempted under this Section, it shall be Optional with
the jud ment debtor to permit the same to be partitioned, or
to be so d, and to receive in money the value of the homestead
as provided in this Section. If the debtor so elect, the homestead may be sold as other lands are sold on execution, and,
after payin the debtor the value of the homestead, the
balance of he money shall be applied upon the judgment;
provided, that the homestead shall not be sold if the Officer do
not receive a bid for a greater amount than the value of the
homestead exempted in this Section. If sold on the j udgment,

the money paid the debtor for the homestead shall be exem t
from that or any other execution. If the Officer having t e
execution, and the judgment debtor, ‘cannot ree as to the
value of the homestead, or the partitiOn thereo or as to the
quantit and value of any of the articles of personal propert
in this ection exempted, the Oflicer shall select one ersontang
the debtor another person, both being househol ers of the,
vicinity, to whom. the Oflicer shall administer an oath, to appraise and set apart the articles of personal property, if upon
these they disagree, or if the disagreement relates to the value
of the homestead, or to the partition thereof, then to report to
the Oflicer, if they can agree, their appraisal of the reperty
selected for the homestead, and if the debtor elect to ave the
prOperty partitioned, it shall be the duty of the ap raiser to
set a art such a homestead as the judgment debtor s all elect
and entitled to under the provisions of this Section. In
case of the disagreement of the appraisers, they shall choose a
third person, who shall also be sworn; and the decision
of any two of said appraisers, when made, shall be final.
The prOpert not set apart. as a homestead shall be subject
to sale un er execution, the proceeds to ‘be applied on
the judgment. Twelfth—No article or Species 0 property
mentioned in this Section shall be exempt from execution
issued upon a ’udgment recovered for its price, or a
mechanic’s or 1a orer’s lien, or upon a mortgage thereon.
Thirteenth—none of. the exemptions herein made are intended
for the benefit of non-residents, but their property is liable to
execution, with the exception of the ordinary wearing apparel;
but any person comin within the Territory, with the intention
of remaining, is a resi ent within the meaning of this Act, and
nothing herein shall be so construed as to exempt the pr0pert
of any person or persons about to depart from the Territory wit
the intention of removin their effects therefrom: provided, that
nothing in this Act sh be so construed as exempting any real
or personal pmperty from sale for taxes. In this Section, the
word “ am y’ shall be construed to include all persons
belonging to the household. of the judgment debtor, or dependant upon him for subsistence, but shall not include
transient persons, boarders, or hired servants.

SE0. 220. The Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the
County, shall execute the writ against the preperty of the
judgment debtor, by levying on a suilicient amount of unex- j
empted prOperty, if there be sufficient, collecting, or selling
the things in action, and selling the other preperty, and paying to the plaintifff, or his attorneys, so much of the proceeds
as will satisfy the judgment, or depositing the amount with
the Clerk of the Court. Any excess in the proceeds over the
judgment, and the fees of the Oflicer shall be returned to the
judgment debtor. When there is more r0perty of the judgment debtor than is sufiicient to satisfy the judgment and the
fees of the Officer within his view, he shall levy only on such
part of the pro rty as the judgment debtor may indicate;
provided, that t e judgment debtor may indicate at the time

of the 'levy such part; and provided, that the property indi—
cated be amply sufficient to satisfy such judgment and fees.
SEC. 221. Before the ~ sale of rcperltzy on execution ,
notice thereof shall be given as .fo cws: 'rst—In case of
perishable property, by posting written notice of the time and
place of sale 1n three public places of the precinct, or city
where the sale is to take place, for such a time as may be reasonable, considering the character and condition of the property.
Second-—In case of other personal pro rty; by posting a
similar notice in three public places 0 the precinct, or city
where the sale is to take place, not less than five nor more
than ten' days. Third—In case of real pmperty, .by posting a.
similar notice, particularly describing the prOperty, for twenty
days, in three public places of the precinct, or city, where the
property is situated, and also where the property is to be sold.
SEC. 222. An Officer selling without the notice rescribed
by the last Section, shall forfeit a sum not to excee five hundred dollars at the discretion of the Court, to the aggrieved
party, in addition to his actual damages; and a rson willfully
taking down or defacing the notice posted, if one before the
sale or the satisfaction of the judgment, (if the judgment be
satisfied before sale) shall forfeit to the aggrieved party, a sum
not to exceed five hundred dollars, at the discretion of the Court.
SEC. 223. All sales of propert under execution, shall
be made at auction, to the highest bi der, and shall be made
between the hours of nine 1n the morning, and five in the
afternoon. After sufficient ropert has been sold to satisfy
the execution, no more shal be sol . _ The Officer‘holding the
execution shall not become a urchaser, or be interested in any
purchase at such sale. hen the sale is of personal
prOperty, capable of manual delivery, it shall be in view of
those who attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels as are
likely to bring the highest price; and when the sale is of real
prgBemy, and consistm of several known lots or parcels, they
sh be sold separate y, or when a portion of such real
proferty is claimed by a third rson, and he requires it to be
sol separately, such portion £511 be thus sold. All sales of
real prOperty shall be made at the Court House of the County
in which the property, or some part thereof, is situated. The
judgment debtor, if present at the sale, may also direct the
order in which the prOperty, real or ersonal, shall be sold.
When such preperty consists of sever known lots or parcels,
or of articles which can be sold to advantage separately, the
officer shall be bound to follow such directions.
— SEC. 224. If a purchaser refuse to pay the amount bid
by him for rcperty struck off to him at a sale under execution, the O cer may again sell the property .to the highest
bidder, after giving the notice herein before prov1ded;
and if any loss be occasioned thereby from the purchaser
refusing to pa his bid, the Officer may recover the amount of
such loss, wit costs, for the benefit of the party aggrieved,
by motion, upon previous notice of five days to such purchaser, before any Court of competent jurisdiction. ‘

SEC. 225. Such Court shall proceed in a summary manner, in the hearing and disposition of such motion, and give
judgment, and issue execution therefore forthwith, but the
refusing purchaser may claim a jury. And the same proceedings may be had against any subsequent purchaser who
shall refuse to ay, and the Oflicer may, in his discretion,
thereafter reject t e bid of any person so refusing.

SEC. 226. The two preceding Sections shall not be construed to make the Officer liable for any more than the amount
bid by the second, or subsequent purchaser, and the amount
collected from the urchaser refusing to pay. . ‘

, SEO. 227. W en the purchaser of any personal property,
capable of manual delivery, shall ay the purchase mone ,
the Oflicer making the sale shall de 'ver to the urchaser the
pr0perty, and if desired, shall execute and de 'ver to him a
certlficate of the sale and payment. Such certificate shall
convey to the urchaser all the right, title and interest which
the debtor h in and to such prOperty, on the day the execution was levied.

SEc. 228. When the urchaser of any personal property
not capable of manual elivery, shall ay the , purchase
money, the Oflicer making the sale sha execute and deliver to the purchaser a certi‘dcate of sale and payment.
Such certiEeate shall convey to the purchaser all nght, title
and interest which the debtor had in and to such property on
the day the execution was levied.

SEC. 229. Upon a sale of real rcperty, the purchaser
shall be substituted to and ac uire the right, title, interest
and claim of the judgment de tor thereto; and when theestate
is less than a leasehold of two.~ years unexpired term, the sale
shall be absolute. In all other cases, the real (property shall
be subject to redemption, as provided in this hapter. The
Officer. shall give to the urchaser a, certi‘dcate of the sale, containing: First-WA particu ar description of the real preperty sold.
Second—The price bidfor each distinct lot or parcel. Third—The whole price paid. - Fourth—When subject to redemption,
‘it shall be so stated; and when the judgment,.under which the

. sale has been made, is made payable in a specified. kind of
money or currency, the certificate shall also state. the-kind of
money, or currency, in which such redemption may be made,
which shall be the same as that specified in the judgment. A
duplicate of such certi‘dcate shallbe‘ filed by the Omcer in the
office of the Recorder of the County. ‘ _

SEC. 230. PrOperty. sold subject to redemption, as provided in the last Section, or any part sold se arately,-may be
redeemed in the manner hereinafter provided y the following

rsons, or their successors in. interest: First—The judgment
ebtor, or his successor in interest, in the whole or any part
of the property. Second—A'creditor having alien by. judgment, or mortgage, on the property. sold, or on  share'or
part thereof, subsequent to that on which the property was
sold. The persons mentioned in the second subdivislon of this
Section are, in this Chapter, termed redemptioners.

SEC. 231. The judgment debtor, or a redemptioner, may
redeem the property from a urchaser within six months after
the sale, on paying the pure aser the amountof his purchase,
in the kind of money or currency specified in the jud ent,
if an be s itied, with six per cent. thereon in ad ition,
toget er wit the amount of any assessment, or taxes, which
the purchaser may have paid thereon after the purchase, and.
interest on such amount; and if the purchaser be also a creditor, having a lien prior to that of a redemptioner, other than
the judgment under which the purchase was made, the amount
of such lien, with interest.

SEC. 232. If.the property be so redeemed by a redemptioner, either the judgment debtor, or another redemptioner
may, within sixty daysof his last redemption, again redeem
it from the last redemptioner, on paying the sum aid on such
last redemption, with three per cent. thereon in dition, and
the amount of any assessment, or taxes which the said.
last redemptioner may have paid thereon, after the redemption
by him, w1th interest on such amount, and in addition, the
amount of any liens held by said last redemptioner prior to
his own, with interest: provided, that the judgment under
which the pro rty was sold need not be paid as a lien. The
prOperty may again, and- as often as the debtor or a redemptioner is so diSposed, redeemed from any previo redemptioner within sixty days after the last redemption, 'th three
per cent. thereon in addition, and the amount of any assessments, or taxes, which the last revious redemptioner paid
after the redemption by him, wit interest thereon, and the
amount of any hens other than the 'udgment under which the
property was sold, held by the said ast redemptioner revious
to his own, with interest. Notice of redem tion shall 'ven
to the Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriif of t e County. , no
redemption be made within six months after the sale, the purchaser, or his assignee, shall be entitled to a conveyance, or if
the property be so redeemed whenever sixty days have elapsed,
and no other redem tion has been made and notice thereof
given, and the time or the redemption shall have expired the .

ast redemptioner, or his assi ee, s allbeentitledtoa eed from
the officer. , If the debtor re eem at any time before the time
for the redemption expires, the effect of the sale shall be terminated and he be restored to his estate.

SEC. 233. The payment mentioned in the last two sections may be made to the urchaser, or redemptioner, as the
case may be or for him to t e officer who made the sale' and
'a tender of the money shall be equivalent to apayment so far as
to effect a redemgyetion of the property, and such payments,
or tender, shall made in the kind of money, or currency, in
which the last redemption was made, and in which the lien of
such redemption was payable. A person desiring to redeem
may demand of the‘ purchaser, or last redemptioner, or his
attorney in fact, if he be absent from the count , in which
.the pimperty is situate, a statement in writin of his claims
and 'ens against the property to be pai on redemption,

specifying each item; and if he fail to furnish said statementWithin three days, then it shall only be necessaryto a redemptione'r to pay, or tender the amount of the bid or the last
redemption, as the case may be, with the per centage allowed
added thereto. ' i -_ ‘

"SEC. 234. ’ A redemptioner shall produce to the officer, or
person, from ‘whom he seeks to redeem, and serve with his I
notice to the officerf: First—A .cOpy “of the docket of the judgment under which he claims the right to redeem, certified by
the Clerk of the Court, where the jud ment is docketed; or If
he redeem u n almortgage, or other 'en, a note of the record
thereof certi ed by the Recorder. Second—A copy of an assignment nece's j ' to establish his claim, verified by the
affidavit 0f ‘ himsel , or of subscribing witnesses thereto; and:
Third—An affidavit by himself, or 'his agent, showing the
amount then actually due on the lien. " ' ‘ ' ‘

- SEC. 235. Until the eXpiration of the time allowed for .
redemption, the Court may restrain the commission. of waste 1
on the property, or may a point a receiver to take charge of
the prOperty, or the rocee thereof, by order granted with or
without notice, on t e application of the purchaser, or the
judgment creditor. But it shall not be deemed waste for the
person in possession of the prOperty at the time of sale, or
entitled to possession afterwards, during the period allowed
for redemption, to continue to use it in the same, manner in
whichit was previously used; or to use it in-the ordinary
course of husbandry; or to make the necessary repairs of
buildings thereon; or to use wood or timber on the property
therefore; or for the repair of fences; or for fuel in his family
while he occupies the property. ' - * l ,

SEC. 236. The purchaser from the time of a sale until .a
redemption, and a, redemptioner from the time of ' his redem - .
tion until another redemption, shall be entitled to receive '3
f the tenant in possession, the rents of the property sold,
or he value of the use and occupation thereof :- provided, that
in case the pr0perty shall be redeemed as rovided in this

“Chapter, the amount of such rents and pro ts which may
have been received by such purchaser, or redemptioner, or
which said purchaser, or redemptioner, ma have been entitled
to claim, orgreceiVe, unless such claim shall be released to the
rson claiming such right of redem tion, shall be deducted
, m the. amount which said purc , ser, or redemptioner,
would be‘entitled toreceive on such redemption.
~ 'SEc. 237’. ‘If the purchaser of real property sold on exe- 1
cution, or his successor in‘interest, or a redemptioner be evicted ;
therefrom in consequence of irregularities in the proceedings,
concerning the sale, or of the reversal, or discharge of the judg-~
ment, he may recover the price paid, with interest, from the
judgment creditor. If the purchaser of property, or his successor in interest,‘f_ail to recover possessiqn 1n consequence of
irregularity in the! proceedings concerning. thesale, ‘or because
the property sold «was not subject to execution and sale, the
Court having jurisdiction thereof shall, on petition of such

part in interest, or his attorney, revive the original judgment
or- he amount paid by such purchaser at the sale, with
interest thereon from the time of ayment at the same rate that
the original judgment bore, 3.11 when so revived, the said
jud ent shall have the same effect as an original judgment
of t e said Court at that date, and bearing interest as , afore-.
said, and any other, or after acquired r0perty, rents, issues or
profits of the said debtor, shall be 'able to levy and sale
-under execution in satisfaction of such debt: presided, that
no roperty of such debtor bona fide sold upon the filing of
suc petition, shall be subject to the lieu of such judgment;
and, provided further, that notice of the filing of such etition shall be made by filing a notice thereof in. the office 0 the
Recorder of the County where such proqlerty is situated, and
that said judgment shall be revived 1n t e name of the original plaintifff, or plaintifffs, for the use of said petitioner, the
party in interest. , '

CHAPTER 2.—PROCEEDIEes SUPPLEMENTARY To THE
‘ EXECUTION.

SEC. 238. When, an execution against property of the
judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same
judgment, issued to the Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of
the County, where he resides, or if he do not reside in this
Territory, to the Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the
County, where the judgment roll‘is filed, is returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the judgment creditor, at any time
after such return is made, shall be entitled to an order from
the Judge of the Court requiring such judgment, debtor to
appear, and answer upon oath concerning his pmperty,before
such Judge, or a referee appointed by him, at atime and place
specified 1n the order; but no judgment debtor shall be 
to' attend before a, Judge, or referee, out of l the County 1n
which he resides, when proceedings are taken under the pro'visions of this Chapter. ~ .~ . . ,

SEC. 239. .After the issuin of an— execution‘ _ against
. pro rty, and upon proofby- afii avit of a party, or otherwise,
- to tE: satisfaCtion of the Court, or of the udge thereof,,that
any judgment‘debtor has rcperty which .he unjustly refuses
to ap 1y towards the satis t10n of the judgment, such Court,
or ju ge, may; by- an order require the judgment ,debtor to
ap m at a specified time and place ' before such‘ judge, or a
re eree appointed by him, to answer concerning the. same;- and
such. proceedings may thereupon .be had for the application of
the property of the judgment debtor toward the satisfaction
of t e judgment, as are provided upon the return of an eXecution. Instead of the order requiring the: attendance ' of the
judgment debtor, the Judge may, upon affidavit. of the judgment creditor, his agent or attorney, if it appear to him that
there is danger of the , debtor absconding, or the Territorial
Marshal, or the Sheriff of the County, to arrest the debtor and

bring him before such Judge. Upon being brou ht before]
the Judge, he may be ordered to enter into an un ertaking,1
with sufficient surety, that he will attend from time to time;
before the Judge or referee, as shall be directed during the
pendency of proceedings, and until the final determination
thereof, and will not in the meantime dispose of any portion
of his prOperty not exempt from eXecution. In default of
entering into such undertaking, he may be committed to
rison. P SEC. 240. After the issuing of an execution against
prOperty, any person indebted to the judgment] debtor may}
pay to the officer the amount of his debt, or so much thereofI
as may be necessary to satisfy the execution, and the Officer’s
recei t shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount so paidEC. 241. After the issuing, 0r return of an execution
against roperty of the judgment debtor, or of any other of
several ebtors in the same judgment, and upon roof by affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the J ugge that any
person or 00 oration has property of such judgment debtor,
or is indebte to him in an amount exceeding fifty dollars, the
Judge may, by an order, require such a person or corporation,
or any officer or member thereof, to appear at a specined time
and place before him, or a referee appointed by him, and
answer concerning the same. ‘

SEC. 242. Witnesses 1 may be required to a pear and
testify before the Judge, or referee, uponany procee mg under
this Chapter in the same manner as- upon the trial of an issue.

SEC. 243. The Judge, or referee, may order any prOperty
of the judgment debtor not exempt from execution, in the
hands of such debtor, or any other person, or due to the
judgment debtor, to be applied towards the satisfaction of the
judgment. ' ‘ ~

SEC. 244. If it appears that a person, or corporation,
alleged to have property of the judgment debtor, or indebted,
to him, claims an Interest in the prOperty adverse to him, or
denies the debt, the Court or Judge may authorize, by an order
made to that effect, the judgment creditor to institute an action
against such person, or corporation, for the recovery of such
interest or debt; and the Court or Judge may, by order, forbid
a transfer, or other disposition of such interest, or debt, until
an action can be commenced and proseCuted to judgment.
Such order may be modified, or vacated by the Judge granting
the same, or the Court in which the action is brought at any
time, upon such terms as may be just.

SEC. 245. If any person, party, or witness, disobey an
order of thereferee, properly made in the proceedin s before,
him under this Chapter, he may be punished by the ourt, or‘
Judge, ordering the reference for a contempt. ~

TITLE VIII.
Actions in Particular Cases.

CHAPTER 1.‘ —— ACTIONS FOR THE FORECLOSURE or
. MORTGAGES. '

SEC. 246. There shall be but one action for the recovery
of 'any debt, or the enforcement of any right secured b
mortgage, or lien upon real estate, or personal property, .whic
"action shall be in accordance with the provisions in this
Chapter. In such action judgment Shall be rendered for the
amount found due the plaintifff, and the Court shall have
power, by its decree or judgment, to direct a. sale of the
encumbered property, (or such part themof as may-be necessary) and the application of the proceeds of the Sale to the
payment of the costs and expenses of the Sale, the costs of
the, suit and the amount due to the. laintiff.‘ If itshall a;;pear
from the return of the Territorial arshal or the Sheriff 0 the
County, that there is a deficiency;l of such proceeds, and a
balance still due to the plaintifff, t e 'udgment shall then be
docketed for such balance ainst the efendant, or defendants,

rsonally liable for the de t, and shall, from the time of such

ocketing, be a lien upon the real estate of the judgment
debtor, and an execution 'may thereupon be issued. by the
Clerk of the Court, in like manner and form as upon other
judgments, to collect such balance, or deficiency, from the
property of the jud ent debtor. .

SEO. 247. If t ere be surplus money remaining after

1payment Of the amount due on the mortgage, lien, or incumrance, with costs, the Court ma cause the same to be paid to
the person entitled to it, and in the meantime may direct it to
be deposited in Court. ’ a ,

SEC. 248. If the .debt for which the mortgage, lien, or
encumbrance is held, be not all due, so soon, as sufficient of
the prOperty has been sold to pay the amount due, with costs,
the sale shall cease, and afterwards, as often as more becomes
due for' rinci al or intacst, the Court may, on motion, order
more to .Sol . But if the pro erty cannot be sold in portions,
without injury to the parties, e Whole may be ordered to be
sold in the firstinstance, and: the entire debt and costs paid,
there being a. rebate Of interest where such rebate is ,prOper.

CHAPTER 2.4-AOTIONS FOR, NUISANOE, WASTE AND WILL.FUL TRESPASS 1N CERTAIN CASES, ON REAL PROPERTY.

SEC. 249. Anythin which is injurious to health, or
indecent, or offensive to t e senses, or an obstruction to the free
use of roperty, SO as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment 0 life or prOperty, is a nuisance, and the subject of
an action. Suc action may be brought b any person
whose prOperty is injuriously affected, or w ose personal

enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance; and by the judgment,
the nuisance may be enjoined or abated, as well as damages
recovered. ‘ ‘
SEC. 250. - If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint A
tenant, or tenant in common ‘of real property, commit waste 11
thereon, any tEerson aggrieved by the waste may bring an action
' against him .erefor, in which action there may be judgment
for treble damages. ' ‘ '
SEC. 251. Any person who shall cut down, or carry oii’, ‘
any wood ‘ or‘underwood, tree or timber or girdle or otherwise i
injure any tree or timber on, the land of another person, or on
the street or highway in front of any person’s house, village
or city lot, or cultivated grounds, or on the commons or public
grounds of an city or town or on the street or highway
in front thereo , wit lout lawful authority, shall be liable to the 1
'owner of such land, or to such city or town, for treble the
amount of damages which maybe assessed therefore, in a civil

action in any Court having .Eiris‘diction.

SEC. 252. Nothing in t e last Section shall authorize the
recovery of more than the just value of the timber taken from S
uncultivated wood land for, the repair of a public highway or
brid e upon the land, or adjoining it.

EC. 253. If a person recover dam s for a forcible or}
unlawful entry in or upon, or detentiono any building or any I
uncultivated real (property, jud ment may be entered for an e

amount not excee Ing that at w ich the actual damages are
assessed. .

J‘

CHAPTER 3.-‘-ACTIONS TO DETERMINE CONFLICTING CLAIMS
To REAL PROPERTY, AND OTHER PROVISIONS RELATING To
ACTIONS CONCERch REAL ESTATE.

SEC. 254. An action may be brought by any person in :
possession, by himself or his tenant, of real prOperty, against 1
any person who claims an estate or interest therein adverse to ‘
him, for the purpose of determining such adverse claim, estate
or interest. r A

SEC. 255. If the defendant in such action disclaim in his
answer any interest or estate in the property, or suffer ‘ud ment to be taken against him without answer, the plaintifffsh
not recover costs. ,

SEC. 256. In an action for the recovery of ma1,pmpert ,
where the plaintifff shows a right to recover at the time t e
action was commenced, but it appears that his right has terminated during the pendency O the action the verdict and
judgment shall be accordin to the .fact, and the plaintifff may
recover damages. for witth ding the prOperty.

SEC. 257. When damages are claimed for withholding
the eprOperty recovered, upon which permanent improvements
have been made by a defendant, or those under whom-he claims,
holding under the color of title adversely to, the claims of the

plaintifff, in good faith, the value of such improvements shall
e allowed as a set-off againt such damages.

SEC. 258. The Court in which an action is pending for
the recovery of real property, may, on motion, upon notice by
either party, for goo cause shown, grant an order allowing
such party the right to enter upon the property and make
survey and measurement thereof, for the purposes of the
action.

SEC. 259. The order shall describe the property, a copy
thereof shall be served on the owner or occupant, and thereupon such party may enter upon the prOperty with necessary
surveyors and assistants, an may make such survey and
measurements; but if any unnecessary injury be done to the
prOperty he shall be liable therefore.

SEC. 260. A mort age of real prOperty shall not be.
deemed a conveyance, w atever its term, so as to enable the
owner of the mort age to recover ossession of the real
property without a ore-closure and sa e. '

SEC. 261. The Court may, by injunction, on good cause
shown, restrain the party in ossession from doing any act to
the in'ury of real property uring the foreclosure of a mortgage t ereon; or after a sale or execution, before a conveyance.

SEC. 262. When real property shall have been sold on
execution, the purchaser thereof, or any person who may have
succeeded to his interest, may, after his estate becomes absolute,
recover damages for injury to the property by the tenant in
possession, after sale and before possess10n .is elivered under
the conveyance.

' SEC. 263. An action for the recovery of real r0perty
, against a person in possession cannot be prejudiced) by an
alienation made by such person, either before or after the
commencement of the action. CHAPTER~4.-—AOTIONS FOR THE PARTITION OF REAL
. PROPERTY.

SEC. 264. When several persons hold and are in possession of real prOperty, as joint tenants or as tenants in common
in which one or more of them have an estate of inheritance, Or
for life, or lives, .or for years, an action may be brought by one
or more of such persons for a partition thereof, according to
the respective rights of the persons interested therein, and for
a sale of such prOpert , or a part of it, if it appear that a
partition.cannot be ma e without great prejudice to the owners.

SEC. 265. The interests of all persons in the pr0perty,
whether such persons be known or unknown, shall be set forth

“ in the complaint s eciiically and particularly, as far as known
to the plaintifff ; an if one or more of the parties, or the share
or quantity of interest of any of the parties be unknown
to the laintiff, or be uncertain, or contingent, or the ownership 0 the inheritance depend upon an executory device, or

~ the remainder be a contingent remainder, so that such arties
cannot be named, that fact shall be set forth in the comp aint.

SEC. 266. No persons who have or claim any liens u on
the property, by mortgage, judgment, or otherw1se, nee be
madedparties to the ‘ action, unless such liens be matters of
recor .

SEC. 267. Immediately after filing the complaint,
the laintiff shall file with the Recorder of the County in
whic the prOperty is situated, a notice of the endency of
the action, containing the names of the parties so ar as known,
theuobject of the action, and a description of the pro ert to
be affected thereby: , From the time of the filing, 1t 9513]. be
deemed notice to all persons.

. SEC. 268. The summons shall be directed to all the joint
tenants, and tenants in common, and, all persons having any
interest in, or any liens of record by mortgage, judgment, or
otherwise, upon the rOpert , or upon any particular portion
thereof; and general y to al persons unknown who have or
claim any interest in the prOperty. '

SEC. 269. If a arty. having a share or interest is unknown, or any one o the unknown parties reside out of the
Territory, or cannot be found therein, and such fact is made to
appear by aSidavit, the summOns may be served on such
a sent or unknown party b’ publication, as in other cases.
When publication is made, t e summons, as published shall
be accompanied b a brief description of the prOperty which
is the subject of t e action.

SEC. 270. The defendants who have been fpersonally
served with the summons, and a certified cop o the comglaint, shall set forth in their. answers, fully an partlcularly,

e nature and extent of their interest in the prOperty, and if
such defendants claim a lien 11 on the prOperty by mortgage,
judgment, or otherwise, they 5 ml] state the amount and date
of the same, and the amount remaining due thereon, and
whether the amount has been secured in any other Way or not;
and if secured, the extent and nature of the security; or they
shall be deemed to have waivedtheir rights to such lien.

SEC. 271. The rights of the several parties, plaintifffs as
well as defendants,'may.b‘e put in issue, tned and determined
by such action; and when a sale of the premises is necessa ,
the title shall be ascertained b proof to the satisfaction of t 1e
Court, before the judgment 0 sale shall be made; and where
service of . the complaint has been made by publication, like
proof shall be required of the right of the absent or unknown
parties, before such judgment is rendered; except that where
t ere are several unknown persons having an interest in the
pro rty, their rights may be considered together in the action,
an not as between themselves. SEC. 272. The plaintifff shall produce to the Court, on the
hearing of the case, the certificate of the Recorder of ' the
County where the property is situated, showing whether there
were or not any liens outstanding of record upon the property,
or any part thereof, at the time of the commencement of the
action. '

SEC. 273. If it shall appear to the Court, by the certificate of the County Recorder, or Count Clerk, or by the sworn
or verified statement of an person w 0 may have examined
or searched the records, t at there are outstanding liens, or'
encumbrances of record upon such real prOpert , or any

thereof, which existed and were of record at; the time of
t e commencement of said action, and the persons hold'
such liens are not made parties to the action, the Court sh
either order such persons to be made parties to the action, by
an amendment or supplemental complaint, or ap int a referee
to ascertain whether or not such liens or incum rances have
been aid, or if not paid, what amount remains due thereon,
and t eir order among the liens or encumbrances ,severall
held by the said persons and the parties to said action, an
whether the amount remainin due thereon has been secured
in any manner, and if seCure , the nature and extent of the
secunty.

SEC. 274. The plaintifff shall cause a notice to be served a
reasonable time rev10us to the da for ap arance before the
referee appointe , as provided in t e last ection, on each person having outstandin liens of record who is not a party to
the action, to appear efore the referee at a specified t1me and
place to make proof, b his own affidavit or otherwise, of the
true amount due or to come due, contingently or absolutely,
thereon. In case such person be absent, or his residence be unknown, service may be made by ublication or notice to his
agents, under the dlrection of the ourt, in such manner as may
be proper. The re ort of the referee thereon shall be made to the
Court, and shall confirmed, modiiied or set aside and anew
reference ordered as the justice of the case may require.

SEC. 275. If it be alleged in the complaint, and be
established by evidence, or if it appear b the evidence without such allegation in the complaint, to t e satisfaction of the
Court, that the prOperty, or any part of it, is so situated that

artitlon cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners,
t e Court may order a sale thereof. Otherwise, upon the
requisite proofs being made, it shall order a partition according
to the respective ri hts of the parties as ascertained by the
Court, and appoint t ree referees there or; and shall designate
the portion to remain undivided for the owners whose interests
remain unknown or are not ascertained.

SEC. 276. In makin the partition, the referee shall
divide the property and ot the several portions thereof to
the respective parties, quality and guant1t relatively con—
sidered, according to the resPective nghts o the parties, as
determined by the Court, deslgnatin the several portions by
prOper landmarks; and may emp oy a surveyor, with the
necessary assistants, to aid them therein. .

SEC. 277. The referees shall make a re rt of their Eroceedin s, s ecifying therein the manner 0 executing t eir
trust, escn ing the prOperty divided, and the shares allotted
to each party, with a particular description of each share.

SEC. 278. The Court may confirm or set aside the mport,
and, if necessary, appoint new referees. Upon the report

being confirmed, judgment shall be rendered that such artition be effectual forever, which judgment shall; be bin ing
and conclusive: First—0n all persons named'as parties to the
action, . and their legal. representatives, who have at the time
any interest in the property divided, or any part thereof, as
ownersdn‘fee, or as tenants for life or for years, or as entitled
to the reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of such property, or of any part thereof, after the termination of a particular
estate therein, and who by any contingency, may be‘entitled to
a beneficial interest in the property, or who have'an interest in
any undivided share thereof as tenants. for years. or for life.
Second—On all persons interested in the preperty who may be
unknown, to whom notice sh all have been givengof the action
for partition by- publication; and, Third—On all other persons
claiming from such parties or rsons, or either- of them.

SEC. 279. But such, ju ment and partition shall not
affect tenants for years less than ten, to the whole of the
prOperty which is the subject of the partition.

SEC. 280. The eXpenses of the referees, including those
of a surveyor and his assistant, when em loyed, shall be ascertained and. allowed by the Court, and t e amount thereof,
together with the fees allowed by law to the referees, shall be
apportioned. amo the different parties to the action.

SEO. 281. W en a lien is on an undivided interest or
estate of an of the parties, such lien, if a partition be made, 3
shall hence orth be a charge only on the share assigned to
such party, but such share a shall be first charged with its just
Egoportion of the costs of the partition, in preference to such

n.

SEC. 282. When a part of the 1tproperty only is ordered .
to be sold, if there be an estate for 1' e or years in an undivided ;
share of the whole property, such estate may be set off in any‘
part of the property not ordered to be sold.

SEC. 283. The roceeds of the sale of the incumbered.
reperty shall be app ' 6., under the direction of the Court, asi
ollows: First—To pay its just proportion of the general costs 3

of the action. Second—To ay the costs of the reference.
Third—to satisfy and cancel 0 record the, several liens in their
order of priority, by payment of the sums due and to become
due; the amount due to be verified by affidavit at the time of
payment. Fourth—The residue among the owners of the property sold, according to their respective shares therein.

' SEO. 284. Whenever any party to an action who holds a ‘
lien upon the property, or any part thereof, hasother suretiesl
for the payment of the amount of such lien, the Court may, 1
in its discretion, order such securities to be exhausted before a‘
distribution of the roceeds of sale, or may order a just deduction to. .be made mm the amount of the lien on the. preperty
on account thereof. .

SEC. 285. - The proceeds of sale and the securities taken.
by the referees, or any part thereo , shall be distributed by;
them to the persons entitled thereto, whenever the Court so1
directs. But in case no direction be given, all such procqads

and securities shall be paid into Court, or deposited therein, or
as directed by the Court. _ ‘

SEC. 286. When the proceeds of sales of any shares or

, parcels belonging to persons who are parties to the action, and

who are known, are paid into Court, the action may be
’continued as between such parties, for the determination of
their res tive claims thereto, which shall be ascertained and
adjudge by the Court. Further testimony ma be taken in
Court, or by a referee at the discretion of the urt, and the
Court may, if necessary, require such parties to present the
facts or law in controversy,- by pleadings, as in an original
action. ‘

SEC. 287. All sales of real prOperty, made by referees
under this Chapter, shall be made by public auction to the
highest bidder, upon notice published in the manner required
for the sale of real prOperty on execution. The notice ’shall
state terms of sale,,and 1f the pmplerty, or any part of it, is to
be sold subjectto a prior estate, 0 arge or lien, that shall be '
stated in the notice.' .

' SEC. 288. The Court .shall, in the order for sale, direct
the terms of credit which may be allowed for the purchase
money of any portion of the premises of which it may direct
a sale on credit, and for that portion of which the purchase
money is re uired, by the provisions hereinafter contained,
to be investe for the benefit of‘ unknown owners, minors, or
parties out of the Territory. SEC. 289‘. The referees may take separate mortgages and
other securities for the whole or convenient portions of the

urchase money, of such parts of the ErOperty as are directed
y the Court to be sold on credit, for t e shares of any known
owner of full age, in the name of such owner, and for the
Shares of a minor in the name of the uardian of suCh minor,
and for other shares, in the name of t e Clerk of the County

and his successors 1n ofEce. ,

‘ SEC. 290. The erson entitled to a tenancy for life or
years, whose estate s all have been sold, shall be entitled to
receive such sum as may be deemed a reasonable satisfaction
for such estate, and wh1ch the person so entitled may con sent
to accept instead thereof, by an instrument in writing, filed
with the Clerk of the COurt. Upon the filing of such consent,
the Clerk shall enter the same in- the minutes of the Court. ‘

SEC. 291. If such consent be not given, filed and entered,
as provided in the last Section, at or before a judgment of sale
is rendered, the Court shall ascertain and determine what
~pr0portion of the proceeds of the sale, after deducting
eXpenses, will be a just and reasonable sum to be allowed
on account of such estate, and shall'order the same to be paid
to such party, or deposited in the Court for him, as the case
may require. , '

SEC. 292. If- the persons entitled to such estate for life or
years be unknown, the Court shall provide for the protection
of their rights in the same manner, as far as may be, as if they

were known and had appeared. " '

SEC. 293. In all cases of sales, when it appears that any.
person has a'vested or contingent future right or estate in any
of the property sold, the Court shall ascertain and settle the
prpiportional value of such contingent or vested right or estate,
an shall direct such prOportion of the sale to be invested,
secured or paid over, in .such manner as to protect the rights
and interests of the arties.

SEC. 294. In 'cases of - sales of roperty, the terms
shall be made known at the time,'and if t e premises consist
of distinct farms or lots, the shall be sold separately.

SEC; 295. Neither of t e referees, .nor any person for the
benefit of either of them shall be interested in any purchase;
nor shall. a guardian of, a minor party be interested. in the
purchase of any real pro rty, being the‘subject of the action,
except for the benefit of t e minor. All sales contrary to the
prov1sions of this Section shall be void. ~

SEC. .296. After completing a sale of the property, or
any part [thereof ordered to be sold, the referee shall report
the same totthe Court, with a-descri tion. of the. different parcels of land sold to each-purchaser; e name of the purchaser;
the price paid or accrued; the terms and conditions of the sale;
and the securities, if any taken” The report shall be filed in
the oEice of the Clerk of the County where the prOperty is
situated. . - -‘ -' ' ' - '

' SEC. 297. If the sale be'con’rirmed by the Court, an order,
shall be entered directing the referees to execute conveyances
and take securities ursuant . to such. sale; which they are
hereby authorized to o. Such‘order may also give directions
to them respectin the disposition of the prOceeds of the sale.

‘ SEC. 298. , hen a party. entitled to a share of the.
pro erty, or an encumbrancer entitled to have his 11% paid out.
of 9 sale, becomes a purchaser, the referees may take his!
rehlcileipt for so much Of the proceeds of the sale as belongs to‘
. -SEG. 299.. The conveyances, shall be recorded in thet

County where the premises are situated, and shall. be-abar;
ainst all rsons interested in the. rcperty in and}? way, who I
all have; een'named as parties in axe action, an against all
such arties and rsons. as were unknOwn, if the summons
have. en. serve by publication and against all persons
claiming from them or elther of them. ' r

- SEC. 300. When there are proceeds of a sale belonging:
to an unknown owner, or to a person without the Territo ,}
who-has no legal representative within it, the same, shall ‘
invested in securities of interest for. the benefit of the persons
. entitled thereto. . '  -- ‘

‘ SEO. 30].- When the security of the roceeds, of , the sale
is taken, or when an investment of an snc proceeds is made, E
it shall be :done, except as herein ot ‘ rwise provided, in the
name of (the Clerk of the County where the papers are filed,
and his successors in oiice, who shall hold the same for the
use and benefit of the parties interested, subject ,to the order
of the Court. . r - ' .~SEC. 302. When securi is taken by the referees on a
sale, and the parties intereste 'in such security, b “an instrument in writing. under their hands delivered t referees,
agree upon the- shares and' iortions to which they. are respectively entitled; or- when vs ares and proportions have been
prevmusly adjudged by the Court, such securities shall be
taken in the names of and payable to, the parties respectively
entitled thereto; and shall be delivered to such parties 11 on
their receipt therefore. Such cment and receipt sh be
returned and filed with the Cler . ‘ ’

SEC. 303. The Clerk in whose name. a security is taken,
or by whom an investment is m'ade,and his successors in office
shall receive the interest and principal as it becomes due, and
a ply. and invest the same as the Court may direct, and shall
h e in his office all securities taken, and keep an account in a
book provided and kept for that purpose'in the Clerk’s office,
free for inspection by-a 1 persons, of mvestments and monies
received by him thereon, and the disposition thereof.

SEC. 304. When it appears that partition cannot be made

equally between the partiesaccordin to-their respective ' 'ts,
Without prejudice to the rights an interest of some of t em, ,
and a petition be ordered by judgment, the Court may adjudge
compensation to be made by one arty to another, on account
of the inequality of partition. ut such compensation shall
not be required to be made to others by owners unknown, nor
by minors, unless in case. of a minor it appear that he has
personalwsi‘operty sufiicient for that purpose, and that. his
interest be Woted thereby.
SEO. 305. on the share of a minor is sold, the proceeds of the sale may be paid, by the referee making the sale,
to his general guardian or~special guardian appointed. forhim
in the action, upon 'ving the security required, by law or
directed by order of t e Court.

SEC. 306. The guardian who may be entitled to the
custody and management of the estate of an insane person, or .
other person adjudged incapable of conductinws ownaffairs,
whose interest in real property shall have n sold, may
receive, in behalf of such rson, his share of the proceeds of
such real preperty, from t e referee, on executin , with suiiicient sureties, an undertakin a proved by the udge of the
Court, that he will faithful y lscharge the trust reposed in
him, and! will: render a true and just account .to the person
entitled, or to his legal representative.

SEC. 307. The neral  of a minor and the
guardian entitled to t e custo y and management of the estate
of an insane person, or other person adjudged incapable of .
conducting his own affairs, who rsointerested in real estate held
in joint tenancy, or in common, or in any other manner so as
to authorize his being made a party to an action for the partition thereof, 1119. consent to a artition without action, and
agree upon the s are to be set 0 to such minor, or other person entltled, and may execute a release in his behalf to the
owners of the shares of the parts to which they may be
reSpectively entitled, upon an order of the Court.

SEC. 308. The costs of partition, including fees of referees ,
and other disbursements, shall be paid b the parties respec- 1
tively entitled to share in the lands divi ed, in prOportion to
their respective interests therein, and may be included and
Specified in the judgment. In that case they shall be a lien
on the several shares, and the judgment ma be enforced by
execution egainst such shares, and against ot er property held
by the resPective arties. When, however, a litigation arises
between some of t e parties only, the Court may require the
expenses of such litigation to be paid by the parties thereto,
or any of them. ‘ 7 ' '

SEC. 309. The Court, with the consent of the parties, may. 1
appoint a single referee, instead of three referees, in the pro- ,3
ceedings under the prOvisions of this Chapter, and the single
referee, when thus appointed, shall have all the powers and
perform all the duties required of the three referees.

SEC. 310. When the action is for partition of a mining .
claim among the tenants in common, joint tenants, cOparceners E
or partners thereof, the Court, upon good cause shown by any
party or arties in interest, may, instead of ordering partition
to be m ,e in manner as hereinbefore provided, or a sale of
the premises for cash, direct the referees to divide the claim in
the manner hereinafter specified. . A

SEC. 311. The Court shall, in its order, or by a subseque nt order made upon motion, fix the time for division ‘of the ‘
claim by the referees, which shall not be less than twenty nor
more than forty days from the day of the making the order,
except by consent of all the parties in interest who have appeared in the action.

SEC. 312. On the day designated in the order,—the referees
shall go upon the claim to be divided, and proceed to make
division of the same as hereinafter provided, and shall continue from day to day until the whole business is commeted.

SEC. 313. Two or more of the tenants in. common, joint
tenants, co artners or parceners ma unite together for the
purpose 0 such division of which t ey shall give the referees
written notice before they commence the business of division;
and all who do not unite as aforesaid, or give notice of se arate
action, shall, for the pu oses of division, be deemed an held
to have united. The re erees in their action shall recOgnize
‘ those named in the order of the Court, or their agents and
attorneys in fact, duly appointed by instrument in writing
under seal, and acknowle ged as in cases of conveyances of
real estate, the guardian of a minor, and. the guardian entitled
to the custody and management of the estate of an insane
person or other person adj udged incapable of conducting his
own a airs, and as to the interest of each, shall be controlled
entirely by the order of the Court. ‘

SEC. 314. At the time and place of division, one of the ;
referees to be selected by them, shall, in the manner of public ‘
auction, offer to the party or parties who will take the least
part or portion of sald mining claim in proportion to the interest he or they may have therein, the pnvilege of first selecting

ULU [Jul-6 Ill-LU “Lu U Ill-1U L U $UJ~ W U IDA LWLL L UUVU u W “WWW u L U W“

mark off, by distinct metes and boun s, to the lowest bidder,
his or their portion of said mining claim, ,at the tplace designated by them or him, according to the terms 0 his or their

bid. - .

SEC. 315. When the referees have marked off and set
apart the interest of the lowest bidder, as provided in the last
Section, they shall offer to the remaining parties the rivilege
of selection, as in said Section mentioned and descri d, and
shall, upon closin the bids, proceed in the same manner to
locate and mark 0 the ortion of the lowest bidder, and shall
thereafter continue in t e same manner to receive bids and
mark off the interest of the bidder or bidders until there shall
remain but one part in interest, or parties united, forming one
interest, as prov1de in Section Three Hundred and Thirteen.
. SEC. 316. The arty or parties remaining, as provided in
the last Section, sha become the owner or owners, as the case
may be, of'the entire claim not marked off and set apart to
other parties as hereinbefore provided, in proportion ‘ to their
respective interests in the claim. ' ‘ .

SEC. 317. The referees shall return, with their report in
this Act required to be made by them, the evidences Cf authority
presented to them b persons other thanthe arties mentioned
1n the order of the ourt, by which they 0 aim the ri ht to
bid, or otherwise act, during the proceedings herein efore
mentioned.

CHAPTER 5.—ACTIONS FOR THE USURPATION OF AN OFFICE
‘ OR FRANCHISE.

- SEC. 318. An actiOn may be brought by the Attorney, General in the name of the people of this Territory upon his
own information, or on the complaint of a rivate party,
against any erson who usurps, intrudes into, olds or exerc1ses any 0 ce, or franchise, real or pretended, Within this
Territory, without authority of law. 1 And .it shall be the duty
of the Attorney-General to brin the action whenever he has
reason to believe that any suc odice or. franchise has been
usurped, intruded into, held or exercised by any person, with. out authority of law.: . - , .

.SEC. 319. Whenever such action is brou ht,the AttorneyGeneral, in addition to the statement 0 the cause of
action, may also set forth in the complaint the name of the

erson rightly entitled to the office, with a statement of

is right thereto; and in such case, upon proof b affidavit
that the defendant has received fees or emoluments elonging
to the office, and b means of usurpation thereof, anorder may
be granted by the udge, or Court wherein the case is ending,
for the arrest of such defendant, and holding ,him to ail; and
thereupon he ma be arrested and held to ail, in the same
manner and wit the We effect, and subject to the same

rights and liabilities as in other civil actions where the defend- 2
ant is subject to arrest. . i

SEC. 320. In eve such case judgment may be rendered ‘
upon the right of the efendant, and also upon the right of ?
the arty so alleged to be entitled; or only upon the right of
the efendant, as justice shall require.

SEC. 321. If the judgment be rendered upon the right of
the person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor
of such erson, he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of
office an executing such official bond as may be required by
law, to takeupon himself the execution of the oiiice.

SEC. 322. If j d ent be rendered upon the right of the
person so alleged to entitled, in favor of such person, he
may recover, by action, the damages which he shall have sustained by reason of the usurpation of the oilice by the defendant.

SEC. 323. When several persons claim to be entitled to
the same office or franchise, one action may be brou ht against
all such ersons, in order to try their respective rig ts to such
oiiice or ranchise. '

SEC. 324. When a defendant, against whom such action
has been brought, is adjudged guilty of usurping, or intruding
into, or unlawfully holding any office, franchise or priv1lege, 'udgment shall be rendered that such defendant be
exclu ed from the office, franchise or privilege, and that he
pay the costs of thexaction. The Court may, also, in its discretion, im ose upon the defendant a flue not exceeding Iive
thousand ollars, which line, when collected, shall be paid
into the Treasury of the Territory.

TITLE IX.
of Appeals in Civil Actions.
CHAPTER 1.—APPEALS IN GENERAL.

SEC. 325. A judgment or order in a civil action, except
when expressly 'made iinal by this Act, may be reviewed as
prescribed by this Title, and not otherwise.

SEC. 326. An order made out of Court, without notice to
the adverse party, ma be vacated or modified without notice,
by the Judge who ma e it, or may be vacated or modiiied on
notice, in the manner in which other motions are made.

SEC. 327. A133: party aggrieved may appeal in the cases
prescribed in this 't e. The party appealing shall be known
as the appellant, and the adverse party as the res ondent.

SEC. 328. An appeal may be taken: First— rom a iinal
judgment in an action or special proceeding commenced in the
Court in which the judgment is rendered, within one year after
the rendition of judgment. Second—From a judgment rendered». on an a peal from an inferior Court, witth ninety days
after the ren ition of the judgment. Third—From an order
granting or refusing a- new trial, from an order granting or

issolving an injunction, from an order refusing to grant or

"

dissolve an injunction, and from any special order made after
the final judgment, within sixty days after .the order is made
and entered in the minutes of the Court. Fourth—T—From an
interlocutory judgment or order in cases of ‘rtition which
determines the right of the several parties, an directs partition, sale or divis10n to be made, Within slxty days after the
rendition of the same. . .

SEC. 329. The a peal shall be made by filing with the
Clerk of the Court wit whom the judgment or order appealed
from is entered, a notice stating the. appeal from the same, or
some sEeciiic part thereof, and servmg a copy of the notice
upon t e adverse y or his attomei. {

. SEC. 330. hen the party who as the right to ap eal
wishes a statement of the case to be annexed to the reco of
the judgment or order, he shall,  twenty days after the
entry of such judgment or order, pre are such statement,which shall state specifically the partlcw ar errors or grounds
upon which he intends to rely on the appeal, and shall contain so much of the evidence as may be necessary to explain
the articular errors or grounds s iiied and no more, and
shal file the same with the Cler , and serve a copy thereof
upon the adverse party. The respondent may, within five
da s thereafter, prepare and file amendmentstothe statement,
an shall serve a copy thereof on the appellant; the statement
and amendments shall be presented to the Judge or referee
who tried .or heard the case, upon notice of two days to the
respondent, and a true stateent shall thereupon be settled
by such Judge or referee. If no amendments are filed, the
statement may be presented to the Judge or referee for settlement without any notice to the respondent. .

SEC. 331. If the arty shall omit to make a statement
within the time limite , he shall be deemed to have waived his
right thereto; and when a statement is made and the parties
shall omit within the several times above limited, the one party
to pr0pose amendments, the other to notify an appearance
before the Judge 'or referee, theyshall respectively be deemed,
the former to have agreed to the statement as prepared, and
the latter to have agreed to the amendments as prOposed; but
the Judge or referee, who tried or heard the case, shall, notwithstanding such omission or implied agreement, .have power
to correct any mistatement of his rulings which such statement
may contain. . j . v ‘

SEC. 332. The several periods of time above limited may
be enlarged, upon good cause shown, by the Judge before
whom the cause was tried. . .

SEC. 333. The statement, when settled by the Judge or
referee, shall be signed by him, with his certificate that the
same has been allowed and is correct. , When the statement is
agreed upon by the parties, the or their attorneys shall sign
the same, with their certificate t at it has been reedupon .
them and is correct. In either case, when sett ed or agree,
upon,it shall 'be filed with the Clerk. '

SEC. 334. ' A copy of the statementi'sh’allbe annexed to a

cc of the 'ud ent roll, if 'the appeal be from a jud entgf
if 5?; appe begir'i'lom an order, to a co y of such order.gm

8130. 835. The rovi'sions of the East 'five preceding Sections - shall not a p y to 'a als taken from an 'order made
uponaffidavit xfile , but‘s‘uc affidavit shall be annexed to the
order, in the place of the statement mentioned in those
Sections: > - - -' '
. SE0; 836. Upon an appeal from 'a 'udgment, the Court

may review any [interruediate order invo vin’g- the merits and
necessarily affecting the judgment. . SEC. 337. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order,
the Appellate Court may reverse, afErm or modify the judgment. or‘ order a pealed from, in the res ct mentioned in the
notice of ap , and asto an or'all o the arties; and- may
set aside, or coniirm, .or-modi y,.xany or all e the proceedings
subject to or dependant upon such judgment or order, and
may, if necessary or proper, order a new trial. When the
judgment or order. is reversed or modiiied, the Appellate
Court may make cOmplete rastitution of all preperty and
rights lost by 'the erroneous judgment or order, and when it
apgears to the A pellate Court that the appeal was made for,
d , it may ad to the costs such damages as may be just,
not exceeding ten per cent. a .

SEO. 638. On "an appeal 'from a final judgment, the
a pellant shall furnish the Court witha transcript of the notice
0 appeal,“ and the statement, if there be. one, certified by the
respective attorneys ’ of the parties to the ap a1, or by the
Clerk of rthe Court. ‘ On'annappeal from a judgment rendered
on an ap ea] or from an order, the appellant shall furnish the
Court 'wit a cog of the notice of appeal, the judgment or
order appealed m, and a copy :of t e papers used on the
hearing of the Court below, such capie's to be certified in like
manner to be correct. ~ If any written '0' inion be placed-on file
in rendering judgment or making the o ‘ er in the Court below,
a co yshall be furnished, certizded in like manner. If the
appe ‘nt‘fail to furnish the requisite papers, the appeal may
be dismissed. SEC. 339. To render an’apganal effectual for any purpose,
in any Case, a written unde'rta ' gg shall be executed on the
part of the a llama, by at‘ least two sureties, to the effect
that the appe ant Will ;pay all - dam s and ' costs which may
(be av'varded againstihim on the appe or a sum not exceeding
one hundred dollars (shall be: deposited with the Clerk with
whom the jud ent or order was entered, to abide the eventof
the appeal. uch' undertaking shall be filed, or such deposit
magic (with the Clerk, 'within five days after the notice of appeal
1s e . . -- > . a . . 8117.. 340. If «the , a peal be from a judgment or order
directing the ' yment .0 money, it shall' not stay the execution-of. atheju gment -or order; unless a written undertaking
be eXecuted on the; art of the a pellant b two or more sureties,-stating their up aces of resi' ence an occupation, to the
effect that they are bound in double the amount named in the

judgment or order; that if the judgment or order ap ealed
from, or any part thereof be. adirmed, the a pellant sha 1 pay
the amount directed to be paid by the ju gment or order, or
the art of such amount as to which the jud ent or order
‘ shallp be affirmed, if affirmed only in part, an all damages
and costs which shall be awarded against the appellant .upon
the appeal. When the judgment or order appealed from is
made payable in a s eci ‘ed kind of money or currency, the
undertaking require by this Section shall be drawn and made
payable in the same kind of money or currency specified in
such judgment or order. . ' * ' . .

' SEC. 341., If the judgment or order appealedfrom, direct
3 the assignment or delivery of documents, or rsonall pr0perty,
the execution of the judgment or order shall not be ista ed by
appeal, unless the things required to be assigned or de 'vered
be placed in the custody of such officer or receiver as the Court
may a pOint, or unless an undertakingbe entered into on the
part 0 the appellant, with at least two sureties, and in such
amountfas the Court or the Judge thereof may direct, to. the
effect that the appellant will obey the order of the Appellate
Court upon the appeal. . SEC. 342. I the judgment or order appealed from, direct
the execution of a conveyance or other Instrument, the execution of the judgment or order shall not be stayed b
the a peal until the instrument is executed and deposite
with t e Clerk with whom the jud ment or order .is entered,
to abide the judgment of the Apps late Court. . - .

- SEO. 343. If the judgmentor order appealed from, direct
the sale or delivery of ossession of real roperty, the execution' of the same shal not be stayed unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the a pellant, with two or
more sureties, to the effect, that during t e possession of such
prOperty by the appellant, he will not commit, nor suffer to be
committed, any waste thereon, and that if the judgment be
afiirmed, he will p‘a the value of the use and occu ation of
the pr0perty' from t e time of the appeal until the de ivery of
possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment or order, not
exceeding a sum to be fixed by the Judge cf .the Court b
which the judgment was rendered or order made, and whic
shall be Speci ed in the undertaking. When the judgment is
for the sale of mortgaged premises, and the payment for a
deficienc arising upon the sale, the .u'ndertakin - shall also
provide or the ayment of such deiiciency. n all other
cases, not herein fore mentioned, the amount of the undertakin to stay the execution of the jud ment or order shall be
fixed%y the Court or the Judge thereo .

SEC. 344. Whenever an appeal is perfected, as provided
by the preceding Sections in this Chapter, it shall. stay all
further proceedings in the Court below, upon the judgment or
order appealed from, or upon matter embraced therein; but
the Court below may proceed upon any other mattel' included
in the action and not affected b the judgment or order appealed. from. And the Court below may, in its discretion,

dispense with or limit the security re uired by said Sections,
when the appellant is an executor, a ministrator, trustee, or
other person acting in another’s right.

SEC. 345. The undertaking prescribed by Sections Three1
Hundred and Thirt -Eight, Three Hundred and Thirt ~Nine, 1
Three Hundred and orty, Three Hundred and Forty ne and
Three Hundred and Forty-Three, may be in one instrument or
several, at the option of the appellant.

SEC. 346. An undertakm upon an appeal shall be of no
effect unless it be accom auied%)y the affidavit of the sureties
that they are each wort , the amount speciiied therein, over:
‘ and above all their just debts and liabilities, exclusive of the
prOperty exem tfrom execution, except where the judgment
exceeds three t ousand dollars and the undertaking on ap eal
is executed by more than two sureties, they may state on t 1eir
affidavit that they are severally worth amounts less than that
expressed in the undertaking, if the whole amount be equivalent to that of two sufficient sureties. The adverse party may,
however, except to the sudiciency of the sureties within five
days after the filing of the undertaking, and unless they, or
other sureties, 'ustify before the Judge of the Court below, or
Clerk, within ve days thereafter, upon notice to the adverse

arty, to the amounts stated in their affidavits, the appeal shall
Be regarded as if no such undertaking had been given; and in
. all eases where an undertaking is required on a peal by the
provision of this Chapter, a deposit in the Court low of the
amount of the jud ment appealed from, and one hundred
dollars in addition, s 11 be equivalent to filing the undertak—
ing, and in all cases the undertaking or deposit may be waived
by the written consent of the respondent.

SEC. 347. In cases not provided for in Sections Three
Hundred and Thirty-Nine, Three Hundred and Forty, Threei
Hundred and Forty-One and Three Hundred and Forty-Three,?
the perfecting of an appeal by giving the undertaking, and the
justliication of the sureties thereon, if uired, or makin the
deposit mentioned in Section Three Hun d and Thirt - ine
shall stay proceedings in the Court below upon the 'u ent
or order appealed from, except that where it directs t e sale of
perishable pro rty the Court below may order the rprOperty
to be sold, an the froceeds thereof to be deposited to abide
the judgment of the pellate Court. '

_ SEC. 348. Appea s may be brought to a hearing by either
arty upon a notice of three days to the 0p site party. Before
t e argument each party shall furnish to t e other, and to each
of the Justices, a copy of his points and authority, or either
party may file one copy thereof with the Clerk, who shall
cause the requisite c0pies to be made. '
. SEC. 349. When judgment is rendered upon the appeal,
1t shall be certified by the Clerk of the Supreme Court to the
Clerk with whom the judgment roll is filed or the order
appealed from is entered. In cases of a eal from the judgment the Clerk with whom the roll is ed, shall attach the
certificate to the judgment roll, and enter _a minute of the

judgment of the Supreme Court on the docket against the
origmal entry. In case of appeal from an order, the Clerk
shall enter .at length in the records of the Court the certificate
received, and minute against the ent of the order appealed
from a reference to the certificate, wit a brief stamment that
the order has been amrmed, reversed or modified, as the case
may be, by the Su reme Court, on appeal.

SEC. 350. W enever costs are awarded to a party by an
Appellate Court, such party may have an execution for the
same on tiling a remittitu‘r with the Clerk of the Court below,
and it shall be the duty of such Clerk, whenever the remittitur
is filed, to issue the execution upon application therefore and
whenever costs are awarded to a party by an order of? any
Court, such party may have an execution therefore in like manner as upon a judgment.

TITLE X.
Mscellaneous Proceedings.
CHAPTER 1.—PROCEEDINGS AGAINST J omr DEBTORS.

, . SEC. 351. When a judgment is recovered against one or
’more of several persons jointly indebted upon an' obligation,
by proceeding as rovided in Section Thirty-Two, those who
.were not origin y served with the summons and did not.
appear to the action, may be summoned to show cause why
they should not be bound by the jud ment in the same
manner as though they had been origin y served with the
summons. ,

SEC. 352. The summons, as provided in the last Section,
'shall describe the judgment and require the person summoned
to show cause why he should not be bound by it, and shall be
served in the , same manner and returnable within the same ‘
time as the ori “’ a1 summons. It shall not be necessary to
file a new comp aint.

SEC. 353. The summons shall be accompanied by an
aIiidavit of the plaintifff, his agent, representative or attorney,
that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains unsatisfied,
and shall specif the amount due thereon. - '

SEC. 354. pon such summons, the defendant may
answer within the We s ecifled therein, denying the judg- ment, or setting up any de nse which ma have arisen subsequently, or he may deny his liability on t e obligation upon
which the judgment was recovered. ,

SEC. 355. If the defendant in his answer, deny the judgment, or set up any defense. which may have ansen subsequently, the summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the
answer, shall constitute the written allegations in the case.‘ If
he deny his liabilit on the obligation upon which the judgment was recovers , a coPy of the original complaint and the
summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the answer, shall
constitute such written allegations.

SEC. 356. The issues formed may be tried as in other]
cases, but when the defendant denies, in his answer, any:
liability on the obligation upon which the jud ent was rendered, if a verdict be foun against him, 1t s all be for the
amount remaining unsatis’ded on such original judgment, with
interest thereon. ,

CHAPTER 2.-—CONFEss10N OF JUDGMENT WITHOUT ACTION.

SEC. 357. A jud ent by confesssion may be entered
> without action, either or money due or to become due, or to :
secure an person against contingent liabilit on behalf of the 1
defendan , or both, In the manner prescribe by this Chapter.
SEC. 358. A statement in writing shall be made, signed 1
b the defendant and verified b his oath, to the fellowing ;
- e ect: First—It shall authorize he entry of judgment for a
eciiied sum. Second—If it be money due, or to become
ue, it shall state concisely the facts out of which it aroSe,
and. shall show that the sum confessed therefore is justly due,
or to become due. Third—If it be for the purpose of securing
the plaintifff against a contingent liability, it shall state .concisely the facts constituting the liability, and shall show that
the sum confessed therefore does not exceed the same. 1
SEC. 359. The statement shall be filed with the Clerk of .
j the Court in which the judgment is to be entered, who shall %
endorse upon it, and enter in the judgment book, a 'udgment ‘
of such Court for the amount confessed, with five do ars costs.
The judgment and affidavit, with the judgment indorsed, shall
thereupon become the judgment roll.

CHAPTER ads-SUBMITTING A CONTROVERSY WITHOUT
ACTION. "

SEC. 360. Parties to a question in difference, which might
be the subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree
upon a case containing the facts upon which the. controversy
depends, and resent a submission of the same to any Court
which should - ave jurisdiction if an action had been brought.
But it must ap ar, by affidavit, that the controversy is real,

’ and the procee in s in good faith, to determine the rights of
the parties. The ourt shall thereupon hear and determine
the dcase, and render judgment thereon, as if an action were
pen 1n . ~ - Slag. 361. Judgment shall be entered in the judgment
book, as in other cases, but without costs for any proceeding
prior to the trial. The case, the submission, and a cepy of the
judgment shall constitute the 'udgment roll. : , I, ‘ SEC. 362. The judgmen may be enforced in the same
manner as if it hadbeen rendered in an action,and .shall be
m the same manner subject to appeal. CHAPTER 4.—-OF Anni‘rnurorrs.

SEC. 363. Persons capable of contracting, may submit to
arbitration any controversy which might be the subject of a
civil action between them, except a uestion of title to real
prOperty in fee or for life. This quali cation shall not include
questions relating merely to the partition or boundaries of real

ro ert . .
P pSEc}: 364. The submission to arbitration shall be 'in writing, and may be to one or more persons.

SEC. 365. It may be stipulated in the submission that it
be entered as an order of the Court, for which purpose it shall
be filed with the Clerk of the Court where the parties, or one
of them, reside. The Clerk shall thereupon enter in his register of actions a note of the submission, w1th the names of the
parties, the names of the arbitrators, the date of the submission,
when filed, and the time limited b the submission, if any,
within which the award shall be ma e. ‘ When so entered, the
submission shall not be revoked without the consent of both
parties. The arbitrators may be compelled b the Court to
make an award, and the award may be enforce by the Court
in the same manner as a judgment. 1 If the submission be not
made an order of the Court, it may be revoked at any time
before the award is made.

SEC. 366. Arbitrators shall have power to appoint a time
and place for hearing, to adjourn from time to time, to administer oaths to witnesses, to hear the allegations and evidence of
tlfe parties, and to make an award thereon.

SEC. 367. All the arbitrators shall meet and act to ether

during the investigation, but when met, a majority may etermine any question. Before acting, they shal be sworn before
an officer authorized to administer oaths, faithfully and fairly
to hear and examine the allegations and evidence of the parties
in relation to the matters in controversy, and to make a just
award accOrdin to their understanding. ‘ j ‘
3 SEC. 368. gI'he award shall be in writing, signed by the
arbitrators, or a majority of them, and delivered to the parties.
When the submission is made an order of the Couit, the award
shall be filed with the Clerk, and a note thereof, made in his
“register. After the expiration of five days from the filing of
the award, upon the application of a party, and on filing an
affidavit showing that notice of filing the award has been
served on the adverse party or his attorney, at least four days
prior to such application, and that no order sta 'ng the entry
of judgment “has been served, the award shal be entered by
the Clerk in the judgment book, and shall thereupon have
the effect of a judgment. '

SEC. 369. The Court, on motion, may vacate the award
upon an of the following grounds, and may order a new
hearing, fore the same arbitrators, or others, in its discretion:
First—That it was procured by, corruption or fraud. Second—

That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct or committed
gross error in refusing, on cause shown, to postpone the hearmg, or in refusing to hear pertinent evidence, or otherwise
acted improperly, m a manner by which the rights of the party
were prejudlced- Third—That the arbitrators exceeded their
powers 1n makingtheir award; or that they refused, or impro rly omitted to consider a part of the matters submitted
‘ to t em; or that the award is indefinite, or cannot be performed.

SEC. 370. The Court ma , on motion, modify or correct
the award where it appears: ' st—That there was a miscalculation in ii ures upon which it was made, or that. there is a
mistake in t e description of some rson or prOperty therein.
Second—When a part of the awarrfcias upon matters not submitted, which part can be separated from other parts, and does
not affect the decision on the matter submitted. Third—When
the award, thou h imperfect in form, could have been
amenged if it ha been a verdict, or the imperfection disregarde .

SEC. 371. The decision upon a motion shall be subject to
appeal in. the same manner as an order which is subject to
appeal in a civil action; but the judgment entered before a
motion is made shall not be subject to appeal.

SEC. 372. If a submission to arbitration be revoked, and
action be brought therefore, the amount to be recovered shall
only be the costs and damages sustained in preparing for and
attending the-arbitration. ‘

CHAPTER 5.—OFFER OF THE DEFENDANT To COMPROMISE
\ THE WHOLE OR A PART OF AN ACTION.

SEO. 37 3. The defendant may, at an time before the
trial or judgment, serve upon the plaint' an offer to allow
judgmentto be taken against him for the sum, or prOperty or
to the effect therein specified. If the plaintifff acce t the 0 er,
and give notice thereof within five days, he may f1 e the summons, complaint and offer, with an affidavit of notice of
acceptance, and the Clerk shall thereupon enter judgment
accordingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the
offer sh I be deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given in
evidence; and if the plaintifff fail. to obtain a more favorable
judgment, he shall not recover costs, but shall pay the defendant’s costs from the time of the offer. '

. TITLE XI. _
0f Witnesses, and of the Manner of Obtaining Evidence.

CHAPTER 1.—OF WITNEssEs.

SEC. 374. All rsons, without exception, otherwise than
as specified in this 0 apter, may be witnesses in any action or

proceeding. Facts which, by the common law, would cause
the exclusion of witnesses may'still be shown for the purpose
of affecting their credibility.

SEC. 375. -No person shall be disqualified as a witness in
any action or roceeding on account of his. Opinions on matters
of religious be ief, or by reason of his interest in the event of
the action or proceeding as a party thereto or otherwise; but
the party or parties thereto, and the person in whose behalf
such action, or proceeding ma be brought or defended, shall,
exceptas hereinafter excepte , be competent and be compellable to give evidence, either m'va coca or by de osition, or'upon
a commission, in the same manner and sub eat to the same
rules of examination as other witnesses, on behalf of himself;
or either or any of theparties to the action or roceeding.

SEC. 876. If a party refuse to attend an testify at the
trial, or to give his de osition before trial, or upon a commission when required, is complaint, answer, or rep—1 maybe
stricken out and judgment be taken against him; an he may
be also, in the discretion of the Court, proceeded against, as in
other cases, for a contempt.

, SEC. 377. No person shall be allowed totestify under the
'provisions of Section Three Hundred and Seventy-Five,
when, the other party to the transaction, or op csite part
in the action, or the party for whose imm iate bene t
the action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended, is
the re resentative of a deceased erson', when the facts to be
prove transpired before the deat of such deceased rson,
and nothing contained in said Section shall affect the aws in
relation to attestation of any instrument required to be attested.

SEC. 378. Persons against whom judgment has been rendered upon a conviction for felony, unless pardoned by the
Governor, or such judgment has been reversed on appeal, shall
not be Witnesses. '

SEC. 37 9. A husband shall not be a witness for, or
against, his Wife, nor a wife a witness for, or against, her husband; nor can either, during the marriage or afterwards, be,
without the consent of the other, examined as to any communication made by one to. the other during the marriage. But
this exception shall not apply to an action or proceeding by
one against the other. .

SEC. 380. An attorney or Counselor shall not, without
the consent of his client, be examined as a witness as to any
communication made by the client to him, or his advice given
thereon, in the course of professional employment.

SEC. 381. A clergyman or priest shall not, without the
consent of the person making the confession, be examined as
a witness as to any confesSion made to him in his professional
character, in the course of discipline enjoined by the church to
which he belongs. ,

SEC. 382. A licensed physician or surgeon shall not,
without the consent of his patient, be examined as a witness
as to any information ac uired in attending the atient, which
was necessary to enable im to prescribe or act or the patient:

provided, however, in any suit or prosecution against a physician or surgeon for malpractice, if the patient or party sueing
or rosecuting shall require or give such consent, and any
suc witness shall give testimony, then such physician or
surgeon, defendant, may call any other physicians or surgeons
as witnesses on behalf. of defendant, without the consent of
such patient or party sueing or prosecuting.

SEC. 383. A public officer shall no be examined as a
witness as to communications made to him in ofiicial confidence, when the ublic interest would suffer by the disclosure.

. SEC. 384. e Judge himself, or, any juror, may be
called as a witness b either party, but in such case it shall be
in the discretion of t e Court, or Judge, to order the trial tobe
postponed, or suSpended, and to take place before another

ud e or jury. ‘

EC. 385. When a witness does not Speak or understand
the English language, an interpreter shall be sworn to interpret for him. An gerson resident of the County may be
summoned by any u go or Court to appear before such Judge
or Court to act as interpreter in any action or proceeding.
The summons shall be served and returned in like manner as
a subpoena. Any person so summoned shall, for a failure to
atten at the time and place named in the summons, be liable
to punishment for contempt.

CHAPTER 2.—MANNER or COMPELLING THE ATTENDANCE
OF WITNESSES, AND THEIR RIGHTS AND DUTIES.

SEC. 386. Asubpoenamay re uire not only the attendance
of the rson to whom it is directe , at a ' articular time and :
place 0 testify as a witness, but may so require him to ;

ring with him any books, and papers, under his control, containmg business accounts or transactions of a pecuniary
character between the parties to the. action, to be used as
evidence. No person shall be required to attend as a witness
before any Court, Judge, Justice, referee or other officer out of
the County in which he resides, unless the distance be less
than thirty miles from his place of residence to the County of
trial: provided, that such witness shall have the right to 1
demand ayment in advance of his fees for one day’s attendance, an his mileage to and from the place spemfled in the
subpoena. .

SEC. 387. The subpoena shall be issued as follows: E
First—To require attendance before a Court, it shall be issued
in the name and under the seal of the Court, before which the
attendance is required. Second—To require attendance out of
Court, before a udge, Referee, Justice, or other oilicer authorized to administer oaths or take testimony in an matter under
the laws of this Territory, it, shall be Issued y the Judge,
Referee, Justice, or other ofEcer before whom the attendance
is required. Third—To require attendance before ‘a Commissioner appointed to take testimony by a Court of a foreign

country, or of the United States, or of any State, or of a Territory of the United States, or any Jud or Justice of the
Peace of this Territory, it may be issued y aJudge or Justice
of the Peace in places withm their res tive jurisdictions,
with like power to enforce attendance an to punish contempt
of such subpmna, as such Judge or Justice could exercise if
the subpoena directed the attendance of the witness before his
own Court, in a matter pendin therein.

~ SEC. 388. The service 0 a subpoena shall be made by
showing the original, and stating its substance to the witness,
“or by reading it to him, giving or offering to him at the same
time, if demanded by him, the fees to w ich he is entitled for
traveling to and from the place designated, and one day’s
attendance there. Such service ma be made by any person.

SEC. 389. If a witness conce himself, for the purpose
of evading the service of a subpoena upon him, he may, upon

plroof b affidavit of the concealment, and the matenalit of
's evi ence, be punished for contempt by any Court, or J u ge,
issuin the subpoena, and may be liable to all penalties prescribe in Section Three Hundred and Ninety-Four.

SEC. 390. A person present in Court, or before a judicial
officer, may be required to testify in the same manner as if he
Bream in attendance upon a subpoena issued by such Court or

cer.

SEC. 391. It shall be the duty of the witness, duly served
with a subpoena, to attend at the time a pointed, with any
papers under his or her control required y the subpoena, to
answer all pertinent and legal, questions, and, unless sooner
discharged, to remain until the testimony is closed.

SEC. 392. A witness shall answer questions legal and.
pertinent to the matter in issue, though his answer may estab'sh a claim against himself; but he need not give an answer
which will have a tendency to subject him to unishment for
a felony, nor need 've an answer which wil have a direct
tendency to degrade is character, unless it be to the very fact
in issue, or to a fact from which the fact at issue would be
presumed. But a witness shall answer as to the fact to his
previous conviction for felony. . ‘

. SEC. 393. Disobedience to a subpoena, or a refusal to be
' sworn, or to answer as a witness or to subscribe an affidavit
or deposition when required, ma be punished as a contempt
by the Court or officer issuing he sub na or requiring t e
witness to be sworn; and if the witness a party, his complaint may be dismissed or his answer stricken out.

SEC. 394. A witness disobeying a subpoena shall also be
liable to forfeit, to the part aggrieved, a sum not exceeding
one hundred dollars, and s all pay all damages which he ma
sustain b the failure of the witness to attend, which forfei me and amages may be recovered in a civil action.

SEC. 395. In case of failure of a witness to attend, the
Court or officer issuing the sub (ena, upon proof of the service
thereof, and of the failure of t e witness, may issue a warrant
to the Sheriff of the County to arrest the witness and bring

him before the Court or officer where his attendance was
required.

SEC. 396. If the witness be a prisoner, confined in a
jail or prison within this Territory for any other cause than a

sentence for felony, an order for his exammation in the prison
‘ upon de sition, or for his temporary removal and production
before a ‘ourt or officer for the 1purpose of being orally examined, may be made by the Con or Judge thereof, in which
the action or special proceeding is pending. A

SEC. 397. Such order can only be made 11 n affidavit,
showin the nature of the action or proceeding, t e testimony
eXpecteé from the witness and its materiality.

SEC. 398. If the witness be imprisoned in the County
where the action or proceeding is pending, and for a cause
other than a sentence for felony, his production may be
required. In all other cases his examination, when allowed,
shall be taken 11 on deposition. ‘

SEC. 399. very person who has been in good faith served
with a subpoena to attend as a witness before a; Court, Jud ,
Commissioner, referee or other rson, in a case Where e
disobedience of the witness may punished as a contempt,
shall be exonerated from arrest'in a civil action while going to
the place of attendance, necessarily remaining there and
returning therefrom.“

SEC. 400. The arrest of a witness contrary to the last
Section shall be void; but an officer shall not be liable to the
party for makinathe arrest in i norance of the facts creating

e exoneration, ut shall be lia 1e for any subsequent detention of the Barty, if such party claim the exemption» and
make an afii av1t, stating: ' That he has been served
with a subpoena to attend as a witness before a Court; officer
or other person, specifying the same, the place of attendance,
and the action or proceeding in which the subpoena was issued;
and, Second—That he has not been thus served by his own
procurement, with the intention of avoiding an arrest.

CHAPTER 3.—Oiv AFFIDAVITS.

SEC. 401.. An affidavit to be used before any Court,i
Jud e or oiiicer of this Territory ma be taken before
an udge or Clerk of an Court, or any ustice of the Peace
or otary Public in this - erritory. ,

SEC. 402. An affidavit taken in a State, or in a Territory:
of the United States, to be used in this Territo , shall be‘
taken before a Commissioner appointed by the vemor of
this Territory to take affidavits and depositions in such State
or Territory, or before any Jud or Court of Record having a
seal: provided, that a Judge 0 a Court of this Territory shall
. have power to appoint a Special Commissioner for such
purpose. ,

SEC. 403. An affidavit taken in a foreign country to be]
used in this Territory shall be taken before an Embassador, c

l J

Minister, or Consul of the Uted States, or before any Judge
of a Court of Record havin a seal in such foreign country.

' SEC. 404. When an a davit is taken before a Judge of a
Court in a State or in a Territory of the United States, or in a
foreign country, the enuineness of the signature of the Judge,
the existence of the ourt, and the fact that such a Judge is a
member thereof, shall be certified by the Clerk of the. Court,
under the seal thereof.

CHAPTER 4.—0F Dnrosrrrorrs TAKEN IN THIS TERRITORY.

SEC. 405. The testimony of a witness in this. Territory
may be taken by deposition in an action at an time after the
service of the summons or the appearance 0 the defendant,

. and in a. special roceeding, after a. question of fact has arisen

therein m the ollowing cases: Fast—When the witness is a
party to the action or proceeding, or a person for whose imme'ate benefit the action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended.
Second—When the witness resides out of the County in which
his testimony is to be used. Third—When the witness is
about to leave the Count where the action is to be tried, and
will probably continue a sent when the testimony is required.
Fourth—When the witness, otherwise liable to attend the trial,
is nevertheless too infirm to attend, or resides within the
County, but more than fifty miles from the place of trial.

SEC. 406. Either party may have the deposition of a
witness in this Territory taken before an Judge or Clerk of a
Court, or any Justice of- the Peace or otary Public in this
Territory, on serving upon the adverse part . previous notice
of the time and place of examination, toget er with a c0p of
an affidavit, showing that the case is one mentioned in the ast
Section. At any time during the forty da s immediately after
the service of summons by publication as been completed,
:and at any time thereafter, when the defendant has not
appeared, and his residence is unknown to the plaintifff, the
notice required by this Section may be served 11 on the Clerk
of the Court where the action is pending. Suc notice shall
?be at least five days, and,’ in addition, one day for every
twenty-five miles of the distance of the place of examination
from the residence of the . erson u n whom the notice is
served, unless, fora cause s own, a udge by order prescribe
a shorter time. When a’shorter time is prescribed, a cOpy of
the order shall be served with the notice. ' SEC. 407. Either party may attend such examination and
gut such questions, direct and cross, as may be preper. The

eposition, when completed, shall be carefully read to the
witness and Corrected b him in any particular, if desired; it
shall then be subscribe by the witness, certified by the Judge
or odicer taking the deposition, inclosed in an enve10pe or
wrapper, sealed and directed to the Clerk of the Court in
which the action is pending, or to such person as the arties in
writing may agree upon, and either dehvered by the udge or
oHicer to the Clerk or such person, or transmitted through the

mail or by some safe private 0 portunity, and thereupon such
deposition may be used by eit er party upon the trial or other
proceeding against any party giving or receiving the notice,
subject to all legal exceptions. But if the parties attend at
the examination, no objection to the form of an interrogatory
shall be made at the trial, unless the same was stated at the
time of the examination. If the deposition be taken by reason
of the absence, or intended absence, from the County of the
Witness, or because he is too iniirm to attend, proof by affidavit or oral testimony shall be made at 'the trial that the witness
continues absent or infirm, to the best of the deponent’s knowledge or belief. The de osition thus taken may be also read
in case of the death of t e witness. .

* SEC. 408. When a ‘de sition has been once taken, it
may be read in any stage of ' he same action or proceedin by
either party, and sha then be deemed the evidence ‘0 the

party reading it.

‘s

CHAPTER 5. OF DEPOSITIONS TAKEN OUT or THIS.
- ‘ TERRITORY. - ,

SEC. 409. The testimony of a witness out of this Territory may be taken by deposition in an action at any time after
thesemce of the summons or the appearance of the defendant, and in a special proceeding, at any time after a question
of fact’has arisen therein. ' .

SEC. 410. The deposition of a witness out of this Territor shall be taken upon commission issued from the Court,
un er the seal of 1 the Court, upon an order of the Jud e or
Court, on’ the a plication of either party, upon five days previous notice to t e other. It shall be issued to a person agreed
upon by the parties, or if the do not'agree, to any Judge or
Justice of the Peace selected y the officer granting the commission, or. to a Commissioner I ap ointed by the Governor of
this Territory, to take affidavits an depositions in the States
or Territories.

SEC. 411. Such prOper interrogatories, direct and cross, ;
as the respective parties may prepare, to be settled, if the 3
parties disagree as to their form, by the Judge or officer granting the, order for the commission, at a day fixed“ in the order,
or at the time of _ granting the order for commission, may be
annexed to the commission, or when the parties agree to that
mode, the examination may be without written interrogatories.
' SEC. 412. The commission shall authorize the Commis- I
sioner to administer an oath to the witness, and to take his
deposition in answer to the interrogatories, or when the examination is, to be without interrogatories in respect to the question in dispute, and to certif the deposition to the Court, in a
sealed envelope directed to t e Clerk or other erson designed
or agreed upon, and forwarded to him by maif or other usual
channel of conveyance. . "

SEC. 413. ‘ Atrial or other proceeding shall not be postBponed by reason of a commission not returned, except upon
evidence satisfactory to the Court that the testimony of the
witnless is necessary, and that proper diligence has been used
to o tain it. '

CHAPTER 6. -—QF Puoomnmos ro PERPETUATE Tnsrmorrr.

SEC. 414. The testimon of a witness may be taken and
perpetuated as rovided in t is Chapter.

SEC. 415. e applicant shall present to a Judge a petition, verified by the oath- of the applicant, stating: First-—
That the applicant expects to be a party to an action in a
Court in this Territory, and in such case the name or names
of the person or rsons whom he expects will be adverse
parties; or, Secon —That the proof of some fact or facts is
necessary to perfect the title to the propert in which he is
interested, or to establish marria e, descent, eirship, or any
other matter which it 'may herea ter become material to establish, thou h no suit ma at the time be anticipated, or if
anticipate , he may not now the parties to such suit; and,
Third—The name of the witness to be examined and his place
of resiiience, and a general outline of the facts expected to be

rove . .
p SEC. 416. The J wig? to whom such petition is presented
shall make an order Owing the examination before any
Judge of a Court of Record and prescribing the notice to be
'ven, which notice, if the parties are known and reside in
t ' Territory, shall be personally served on them, and if unknown ‘or non-residents, such notice shall be served on the
Clerk of the County where the property to be affected by such
testimony is situated, and a copy thereof published in some
news aper, to be designated b t e Judge making the order.
no. 417. Upon proof 0 the service of the notice as ro—
vided in the last Section, it shall be the dut of the J u ge
before whom the testimony is ordered to be ta en, to proceed
to take the testimony of the witnesses named in said tition,
upon the facts therein set forth, and the taking of t e same
Etna be continued from time to tune, in. the discretion of the
u .

EElena. 418. The examination shall be by question and
answer, unless the parties otherwise agree. The testimony,
when completed, shall be carefully read to and subscribed by
the witness, then certified b the Judge, and immediate1y
thereafter filed in the office 0 the Clerk of the Court of the
County where it was taken, together with the order for the
examination of the witnesses, the petition on which the same
was ted, and the proof of the service of the notice. .

EC. 419. The affidavits or other proof filed with the
testimony, or certified co ies thereof, shall be prima facie
evidence of the facts state therein.

SEC. 420. If the trial be had between‘the persons named in
the petition as parties ex ctant. or their successors in interest,
or between any parties w erein it may be material to establish

the facts which such testimony proves or tends to prove, upon

roof of the death or insanity of the witness, or of his maility to attend the trial by reason of age, sickness or settled
infirmity, the testimony, or certified copies thereof, may be
used by either party, subject to all legal objections. But if
the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form
of an interrogatory shall be made, at the trial, unless the same
was stated at the examination.

CHAPTER 7.-—ADMINIsTRAT10N OF OATHS AND AFFIRMATIONS.

SEC. 421. Every Court of this Territo , every Judge or
Clerk of an Court, every Justice of the eace, and every‘
Notar Pub ic, and every officer authorized to take testimony, i
or to ecide upon the ev1dence in any proceeding, shall have
power to administer oaths or affirmations.

SEC. 422. When a person is sworn who believes in any:
other than the Christian religion, he may be sworn according1
to tillie Ypeculiar ceremonies of his religion, if there be any
suc . '

SEC. 423. Any witness who desires it may, at his Option,
instead of taking an oath, make his solemn affirmation, or;
declaration, b assenting, when addressed in the following
form: “You . o solemnly affirm that the evidence you shall
give in this issue, (or matter) pending between , and

, shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing
but the truth.” Assent to this affirmation shall be made by
the answer “I do. ” A false afhrmation or delaration shall be
deemed perjury equally with a false oath.

Ac:

CHAPTER 8.—INSPECTION or DOCUMENTS AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS AS TO RECORDS AND WRITINGS.

SEC. 424. Any Court in which an action is pending, or a
Judge thereof may, upon notice, order either party to give to
the other within a specified time a cOpy, or mission to take
a c0py of any book, document or paper in is possession, or
under his control, containing business accounts or transactions
of a pecuniary character relating to the merits of the action,
or the defense therein. If compliance with the order be
refused, the Court may exclude the book, document, or paper
from bein given in evidence, or if wanted as evidence by the
party :jpp ymg, may direct the jury to presume it to be such
as he eges it to be; and the Court may also punish the part
refusing for contempt. This Section shall not be constru
to prevent a party from compelling another to roduce such
books, papers or documents, when he is examine as awitness,
as are specified in Section Three Hundred and Eighty-Six.

SEC. 425. There shall be no evidence of the contents of a
writing, other than the writing itself, except in the following
cases: First—When the original has been lost or destroyed;

in which case proof of the loss or destruction shall first be
made. Second—When the original is in thrgfossession of the
part against whom the evidence is oife , and he fails to
prodzice it after reasonable notice. Third—When the original
is a record or other document in the. custogvy of a public officer, or officer of a corporation. Fourth— hen the original
has been recorded and a certified copy of the record is made
evidence by statute. Fifth—When the original consists of
numerous accounts or other documents which cannot be examined in Court without great loss of time, and the evidence
sought from them is only the general result of the whole.

SEC. 426. The party producing a writing as genuine,
which has been altered; or appears to have been altered after
its execution, in a part material to the question in dispute, and
such alteration is not noted on the writing, shall account for
the appearance or alteration. He may show that the, alteration
was made by another without his concurrence, or was made
with the consent of the agarties affected by it, or otherwise
properly or innocently m e. If he do that, he may give the
writing in evidence, but not otherwise.

SEC. 427. A ‘udicial record of this Territory, of the
United States, or 0 any State or Territory, may be proved by
the production of the original, or a cepy thereof certified by
the Clerk, or other person having the egal custody thereo ,
under the seal of the Court, to be a true copy of such record.

SEC. 428. The records and judicial proceedings of the
Courts of any State, of the United States, or of an Territory,
may be roved or admitted in the Courts of this erritory b
the atte tion of the Clerk and the seal of the Court annex ,
if there be a seal, to ther with a certificate of the Judge,
Chief Justice or Presi§ng Magistrate, as the case may be, that
the said attestation is due form. .

SEC. 429. A judicial record of a foreign country may be
'rOVed by the production of a cOpy thereof, certified b the
lerk, with the seal of the Court annexed, if there be a lerk

and seal, or by the le keeper of the record, with the seal of
his office annexed, if here be a seal, to be a true 00p of such
record, together with a certificate of a Judge of the ourt, that
the person making the certificate is the Clerk of the Court, or
the egal keeper of the record, and in either case that the signature is genuine, and the certificate in due form; and also
together With the certificate of the Minister or Embassador of
the United States, or of a Consul of the United States, in such
foreign country, that there is such a Court, specifying generally the nature of its jurisdiction, and verifying the. signature
of the Judge and Clerk, or other legal keeper of the record.

, SEC. 430., A copy of the judicial record of a foreign
country s1 also be admissible in evidence upon proof:
First—That the cOpy offered has been compared by the Witness
with the original, and is an exact transcript of the whole of
it. Second—That such original was in the. custody of the
Clerk of the Court or other legal kee r of the same; and,Thlrd—That the copy is duly atteste by a seal, which is

proved to be the seal of the Court where the record remains, if
1t be the record of a Court, or if there be no such seal, or if it
be not a record of a COurt, by the signature of the legal keeper
of the original.

SEC. 431. Printed ccpies in volumes of Statutes, code or
other written law, enacted y any State or Territory or forei

overnment, purporting or proved to have been published y

t e authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as
evidence of the existing law, in the Courts: and Judicial tribunals of such State, Territory, or Government, shall be admitted
by the Courts and officers of this Territory on all occasions as
presumptive evidence of such laws. SEC. 432. A seal of a Court or public office when required
to any writ or process, or proceeding, or to authenticate a co y
of any record or document, maybe 1m ssed with wax, wa er,
or any other substance, and then attac ed to the “writ, process,
or proceeding, or to the c0py of the record or document, or it
may be impressed on the paper alone.

TITLE XII.
0f the Writ qf Certiorari and qf Mandamus.
CHAPTER I.—THE WRIT or CERTIORARI on REVIEW.

SEC. 433. The writ of certiorari may be denominated the
writ of review.

SEC. 434. This writ may be granted on application by
an Court of this Territory, except a Justice’s, or Alderman’s
or a or’s Court; the writ shall be granted in all cases when
an in ericr tribunal, board, or officer, exercising judicial functions, has exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal, board, or
officer, and there is no appeal, nor in the judgment of the
Court, any lain speed and adequate remedy.

SEC. 43 . The. app 'cation shall be made on affidavit by
the party beneiicially interested, and the Court may require a
notice of the application to be given. to the adverse (party, or
may grant an— order to show cause why it shoul not be
allowed, or may grant the writ without notice.

SEC. 436. The writ may be directed to the inferior tribunal, board, or officer, or to any other person having the custody
of the record or roceedin s to be certined. When directed to
a tribunal, the lerk, if t ere be one, shall return the writ
with the transcri t required.

SEC. 437 . 4 he writ of review shall command the party
to whom it is directed to certify fully to the Court issuing the
writ, at a iiied time and place, and annex to the writ a
transcri t o the record and proceeding, (describing or referring to t em with convenient certainty) that the same may be
reviewed by the Court, and requiring the party in the mean
time to desist from further proceedings in the ' matter to be
reviewed. '

SEC. 438. If a stay of proceedings be not intended, the

words requiring the stay shall be omitted from the writ.
These words may be inserted or omitted, in the sound discretion of the Court, but if omitted, the power of the inferior
Courtd or oHicer shall not be suspended nor the proceedings
sta e .

ySEC. 439. The writ shall be served in the same manner
as a summons in a civil action, except when otherwise
expressly directed by the Court.

SEC. 440. The review upon this writ shall not be extended further than to determine whether the inferior tribunal,
board, or emcer has regularly pursued the authority of such
tribunal, board, or officer.

SEC. 441. If the return to the writ be defective, the Court
may order a further return to be made. When a full return
has been made, the Court shall proceed to hear the parties, or
such of them as may attend for that purpose, and may thereupon give jueggment, either afiirming or annulling or modifying the proc ings below.

SEC. 442. A cepy of the 'udgment, signed by the Clerk,
shall be transmitted to the in erior tribun , board, or officer
having the custody of the record or proceeding certified up.

SEO. 443. A c0py of the judgment, signed by the Clerk,
entered upon or attached to the writ and return, shall constitute the judgment roll. If the proceeding be had in any other
than the Supreme Court, an appeal may be taken from the
iudgment in the same manner and upon the sameterms as

from a judgment in a civil action.

CHAPTER 2.—THE WRIT OF MANDATE on MANDAMUS.

SEC. 444. The writ of mandamus may be denominated
the writ of mandate.

SEC. 445. It ma be issued by any Court in this Territory except a Justice 5, to any inferior tribunal, corporation,
heard or person, to compel the performance of an act which
the law specially ‘enjoins as a duty resulting from an oilice,
- trust or station; or to compel the admission of a party to the
use and enjoyment of a nght or office to which he is entitled
and from which he is unlawfully precluded by such inferior
tribunal, corporation, board or person.

SEC. 446. This writ shall be issued in all cases where
there is not a lain, s dy and adequate remedy in the ordinary course 0 law. t shall be issued upon affidavit, on the
application of the party beneficially interested. .

SEO. 447. The wnt shall be either alternative or eremptory. The alternative writ shall state generally the egation
against the party to whom it is directed, and command such
party, immediately after the receipt of the writ, or at some
other specified time, do the act required to be performed, or
to show cause before the Court, at a Specined time and place,
why he has not done so. The peremptory writ shall be in a
similar form, except that the words requiring the party to

show cause why he has not done as commanded, shall be
omitted, and a return day shall be inserted.

SEC. 448. When the application to the Court is made v
without notice to the adverse party, and the writ be allowed, ‘1
the alternative shall be first issued; but if the application beg
upon due notice; and the writ be allowed, the peremptory may
be issued in the first in stance. The notice of the application,
when iven, shall be at least ten days. The writ shall not be
grante by default. The case shall be heard by the Court,
whether the adverse arty appear or not.

SEC. 449. On t e return da of the alternative, or the 1
day on which the a plication of t e writ is noticed, or such V
further day as the (gurt ma allow, the party on whom the
writ or notice shall have een served may show cause by
answer under oath, made in the same manner as an answer to
a complaint in a civil action.

SEC. 450. If an answer be made, which raises a question

as to a matter of fact essential to the determination of the I
motion, and affecting the substantial rights of the arties, and t
upon the supposed truth of the allegation of whic the application for the writ is based the Court may, in its discretlon,
order the question to be tried before a jury, and ostpone the
argument until such trial can be had, and the ver ict certified
to the Court. The atllluestion to be tried shall be distinctly stated
in the order for tri , and the County shall be des' nated in
which the same shall be had. The order may alsolgirect the
jury to assess an damages which the apphcant may have
sustained in case t e fin for him.

SEC. 451. On t e trial the applicant shall not be precluded by the answer of any valid 0 jection to its sufliciency,‘l
and may countervail it by proof either in direct denial or by '
way of avoidance.

SEC. 452. If either part be dissatisfied with the verdict,
of the jury, he may move or a new trial upon a statement

repared as provided in Section One Hundred and Ninety-Five.
The motion for a new trial may, upon reasonable notice, be
brought on before the Judge of the Court in which the cause
was tried, either in term or vacation. If a new trial be granted,
the jury shall, within five days thereafter, unless the parties
agree on a longer time, be summoned to try the issue. After
a second verdict in favor of the same party, a new trial shall
not be had.

SEC. 453. If no notice for a new trial be given, or if given
be denied, the Clerk, within five days after the rendition of
the verdict, or denial of the motion, shall transmit to the
Court in which the ap lication for the writ is pending, a certified COpy of the ver ict attached to the order of trial; after
which, either party may bring on the argument of the application, upon reasonable notice to the adverse party.

SEC. 454. If no answer be made, the case shall be heard
on the papers of the applicant. If an answer be made which
does not raise a uestion such as is mentioned in Section Four
Hundred and Fi ty; but only such matters as may be explaind

or avoided by a mpg, the Court may, in its discretion, grant

time for replying. the answer, or answer and reply, raise

only uestlons of law, or put in issue immaterial statements,

not a ecting the substantial rights of the parties, the Court

i1311113111 proceed to hear, or fix a day for hearing the argument of
e case.

SEC. 455. If judgment be given for the applicant, he
shall recover the damages which e shall have sustained, as
found by the jury; or as may be determined by the Court or
referees, upon a reference to be ordered, together with costs;
and for such damages and costs, an execution may issue, and
peremptory mandate shall also be awarded without delay.

SEC. 456. The writ shall be served in the same manner
as a summons in a civil action, except when otherwise expressly
directed by order of the Court.

SEC. 457. When a eremptory mandate has been issued
and directed to any in erior tribunal, corporation, board or
person, if it appear to the Court that any member of such
tribunal, co oration or board, or such person, upon whom
the writ has en personally served, has, without just excuse,
refuse or neglected to obey the same, the Court may, upon
motion, impose a fine not exceedin five hundred dollars. In
case of persistence in a refusal o ‘ obedience, the Court may
order the party to be imprisoned for a period not exceeding
one month, and ma make an orders necessary and prOper
for the complete en orcement o the writ.

' ‘ mi. -4 .‘

TITLE XIII.
0f Contempts and their Punishments.

SEC. 458. The following acts or omissions shall be deemed
. contempts: First—Disorderly, contem tuous or insolent behavior towards the Judge, whilst hol ing Court, or engaged
in his judicial duties at Chambers, or towards referees or arbitrators whilst sitting on a reference or arbitration, or other
judicial proceedin . Second—A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct or vio ent disturbance in the presence of the Court
or in its immediate vicinity, tending to interrupt the due
course of a trial or other judicial proceding. Third—Disobedience or resistance to any lawful writ, order, rule or rocess
issued by the Court or Judge at chambers. Fourth— isobedience of a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be sworn or
answer as a witness. Fifth—Rescuing any person or prOperty,
in the custody of an officer, by virtue of an order of process of
such Court, or Judge at chambers. Sixth—Disobedience to
the order or direction of the Court, made pending the trial of
an action, in speaking to or in the resence of a juror, concerning an action in which such juror as been impanneled to
determine, or in any manner approaching or interfering with
the intent to iniiuence his verdict.
. SEC. 459. When a contempt is committed in the immediate view and presence of the Court, or Judge at Chambers,

it may be punished summarily, for which an order shall be
made, reciting the facts as occurring in such immediate view
and resence, adjudging that the person proceeded against is
there y guilty of a contempt, and that he be punished as
therein prescnbed. When the contem t is not committed in
the immediate view and resence of t 6 Court, or Judge at
Chambers, an affidavit s all be presented to the Court, or
Judge, of the facts constituting the contempt, or a statement
of the facts by the referees or arbitrators.

SEC. 460. When the contempt is not committed in the
immediate view and presence of the Court, or Judge a warrant
of attachment may 6 issued to bring the person charged to
answer, or, without a previous arrest, a warrant of commitment may, upon notice, or upon an order to show cause, be
granted; and no warrant of commitment shall be issued without such revious attachment to answer, or such notice or
order, to s ow cause. ‘ .

SEC. 461. Whenever a warrant of attachment is issued
pursuant to this Chapter, the Court, or Judge, shall direct, by
an endorsement on such warrant, that the person charged may
be let to bail for his appearance, in an amount to be specified
in such endorsement.

SEC. 462. Upon executing the warrant of attachment, the
officer shall keep the gerson in custody, bring him before the
Court or Judge, and stain him until an order be made in the
premises, unless the person arrested entitle himself to be discharged, as provided in the next Section.

SEC. 463. When a direction to let the person arrested to
bail is contained in the warrant of attachment, or endorsed
thereon, he shall be discharged from the arrest, upon executing and delivering to t e officer, at any time before
the return day of the warrant, a written undertaking, with
two sufficient sureties, to the effect, that the person arrested will appear on the return day of the warrant, and
abide the order of the Court or Judge thereupon; or they will
pay as may be directed, the sum specified in the warrant.

SEC. 464. The oilicer shall return the warrant of arrest,
and the undertaking, if any, received by him from the person:
arrested, by the return day Specified therein.

SEC. 465. When the rson arrested. has been brought:
up, or has ap eared, the ourt or Judge shall proceed to in-‘
vestigate the c arge, and shall hear any answer which the
person arrested may make to the same, and may examine
witnesses for or against him,zfor which an adjournment may
be had from time to time, if necessary.

SEC. 466. Upon the answer and evidence taken, the:
Court, or Judge, shall determine whether the person pro-1
ceeded against is guilty of the contempt charged; and if 1t be
adjudged that he is guilty of the contempt, a line may be
irnposed on him not exceeding two hundred dollars, or he may
be imprisoned not exceeding five-days, or both.

SEC. 467. When the contempt consists in the omission to
perform an act which is yet in the power of the person to perform, he ma be imprisoned until he have performed it, or
until release by the Court, and, in that case, the act shall be
specified in the warrant of commitment.

SEC. 468. Persons proceeded against, accordin to the
rovisions of this Chapter, shall also be liable to in ictment
or the same misconduct, if it be an indictable offense, but the

Court before which a conviction is had on the indictment, in
assing sentence, shall take into consideration the punishment.
Before inflicted.

SEC. 469. When the warrant of arrest has been returned
served, if the person arrested do not appear on the return day,
the Court, or Jud e, may issue another warrant of arrest, or
ma order the un ertakmg to be prosecuted, or both. If the
un ertakin be rosecuted, the measure of damages in the
action sha be t e extent of the loss or in'ury sustained by
the aggrieved part by reason of the miscon uct for which the
warrant was issue , and the costsof the proceedin .

SEC. 470. Whenever, by the provisions of t§is-Chapter,
an officer is required to kee a person arrested, on a warrant of
attachment, in cu stod , an to bring him before a Court, or
Judge, the inability, rom illness or otherwise, of the person
to attend, shall be a sufiicient excuse for not bringing h1m up;
and the onicer shall not confine a person arrested upon the
warrant, in a prison, or otherwise restrain him of personal
libert , except so far as may be necessary to secure his personal
atten ance.

SEC. 471. In cases of contempt, the punishment shall be
by fine or imprisonment, or both, but no line shall exceed the
sum of two hundred dollars, and no imprisonment shall exceed the period of five days, except as provided in Section
Four Hundred and Sixty-Seven.

TITLE XIV.

0f Costs.

SEC. 472. The measure and mode of compensation of
attorneys and counselors shall be left to the agreement of the
parties, but there may be allowed to the prevailing party in
any action in the courts, his costs in the action or special proceeding in the nature of an action.

SEC. 473. Costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintifff,
upon a judgment in his favor in the following cases: First—
In an action for the recovery of real property. Second—In an
action to recover the possession of personal ropert , when the
value of the property amounts to one hundged dol ars or over,
such value shall be determined by the jury, Court or referee
by whom the action is tried. Third—In an action for the recovery ’ of money or damages, where plaintifff recovers one
hundred dollars or over. Fourth—In a Special proceeding in
the nature of an action.

V SEC. 474. When several actions are brought on one bond,
undertaking, promissory note, bill , of exchange, or _other

instrument in writing, or in any other case for the same cause
of action, against several parties who might have been joined
as defendants in the same action, no costs shall be allowed to
the plaintifff in more than one of such actions, which may be
at his election, if the party proceeded a ' st in the other
actions were at the commencement of e previous action
openly within this Territory.

SEC. 475. Costs shall be allotved of course to the defendant upon a judgment in his favor in the actions mentioned in
Section Four Hundred and Seventy-Three, and in a Special
proceeding in the nature of an action.

SEC. 476. In other actions than those mentioned in
Section Four Hundred and Sevent -Three, costs may be
allowed or not, and if allowed, may e apportioned between
the arties, on the same or adverse sides, in the discretion of
the ourt; but no costs shall be allowed in an action for the
recovery of mone or damages when the plaintifff recovers less
than one hundre dollars, nor in an action to recover the possession of personal property, when the value of the pmperty
is less than one hundred dollars.

SEC. 477. When there are several defendants, in the
actions mentioned in Section Four Hundred and Seventy-Three,
not united in interest, and making seperate defenses, by seperate
answers, and the plaintifff fails to recover judgment against all,
the Court shall award costs to such of the defendants as have
judgment in their favor.

SEC. 478. In the following cases the costs of an appeal
shall be in the discretion of the Court: First—When a new
trial is ordered. Second—When a judgment is modified.

SEC. 479. The fees of referees shall be not exceeding
five dollars to each, for every day spent in the business of the
reference; but the parties may agree in writing upon any other
rate 03 compensation, and thereupon such rate sh all be
allowe .

SEC. 480. When an application is made to a Court or
referee to postpone a trial, the payment of costs occasioned by
the postponement, may be imposed, in the discretion of the
Court or referee, as a condition of granting the same.

SEC. 481. When in an action for the recovery of money
only, the defendant alleges in his answer that before the commencement of the action, he tendered to the plaintifff the full
amount to which he was entitled, and thereut on deposits in
Court, for the laintiff, the amount so tendered, and the allegation be foun to be true, the laintiff shall not recover costs;
but shall pay costs to the defen ant.

SEC. 482. In an action prosecuted or defended by an
executor, administrator, trustee of express trust, or a erson
expressly authorized by statute, costs may be recovere as in
an action by, and against, a person prosecuting and defending
in his own right; but such costs s all, by the judgment, be
made char able only upon the estate, fund, or arty re resented, u ess the Court shall direct the same to e pai by

the plaintifff or defendant, personally, for mismanagement or
bad faith in the action or defense.

SEC. 483. When the decision of a Court of inferior jurisdiction in a Special roceeding is brought before a Court of
higher jurisdiction or a review in any other way than b
ap al, the same costs shall be allowed as in cases on appe ,
an may be collected by execution, or in such manner as the
Court may direct, according to the nature of the case.

SEC. 484. The party in whose favor judgment is rendered, and who claims his costs, shall deliver to the Clerk of
the Court, within two da s after the verdict or decision of the
Court, a memorandum o the items of his costs in the action or
proceeding, which memorandum shall be verified by the oath
of the party or his, attorney, statin that the items are correct,
and that they have been necessa ' y incurred in the action or
proceeding.

SEC. 485. The Clerk shall include in the 'udgment
entered up by him, any interest in the verdict or ecislon of
the Court or referee, from the time it was rendered or made,
and the costs, if the same have been taxed or ascertained, and
he shall, within two days after the same shall be taxed or
ascertained, if not included in the judgment, insert the same
in a blank to be left in the judgment for that urpose, and
shall make a similar insertion of the costs in t e cOpies and
docket of the judgment.

SEC. 486. When a plaintifff in an action resides out of
the Territory, or is a foreign corgoration, security for the costs
and charges which may be awar ed against such plaintifff, ma
be required by the defendant. When required, all procee ings in the action shall be stayed until an undertaklng, executed by two or more persons, be filed with the Clerk, to the
effect that they will ay such costs and charges as may be
awarded against the p aintiff by judgment, or in the rogress
of the action, not exceeding the sum of three hundre dollars.
A new or an additional undertaking may be ordered by the
Court, or Judge, upon roof that the ori inal undertaking is
insufficient security, an proceedings in t§e action stayed until
such new or additional undertaking be executed and filed.

SEC. 487. Each of the sureties on the undertaking, mentioned in the last Section, shall annex to the same, an affidavit
that he is a resident and householder or freeholder within the
county, and is worth double the amount Specified in the undertakin , over and above all his just debts and liabilities, exclusive 0 property exempt from execution.

SEC. 488. After the lapse of thirty days from the service
of notice that security is required, or of an order for new or
additional securit , upon proof thereof, and that no undertaking as require , has been filed, the Court, or Judge, may
order the action to be dismissed.

TITLE XV.

0f Motions, Orders, Notices, Service of Papers, and Miscellaneous

SEC. 489. Every direction of a Court, or Judge, made or
entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order. An application for an order is a motion.

SEC. 490. Motions shall be made in the Court in which
the action is brou ht.

SEC. 491. hen a written notice of a motion is necessary, it shall be given ten days before the time a pointed for
3:11: hearing, but the Court, or Judge, may prescri a shorter

6.
SEC. 492. When a notice of a motion is given, or an order
to show cause is made returnable before a Judge out of Court, 1
and at the time fixed for the motion, or on the return day of
the order, the Judge is unable to hear the parties, the matter
3115311 stand adjourned until the further order of the Court or

u ge. _

SEC. 493. Written notices and other papers, when
required to be served on the party or an attorney, shall be :
served in the manner prescribed 1n the next three Sections,
when not otherwise prov1ded; but nothing in this Title shall be
applicable to original or final process, or any proceedings to
bring a party into contempt. SEC. 494. The service may be personal, by delivery to v
the party or his attorney, on whom t e service is required to
be made, or it may be as follows: First—If upon an attorney,
it may be made during his absence from his office, by leaving
the notice or other papers with his Clerk therein, or with a

rson having charge thereof, between the hours of eight in
t e morning and six in the afternoon, or b leaving them at
the attorney’s residence, with some person 0 suitable age and
discretion, or by mail, directed to such attorney. Second—If
upon a party, 1t may be made by leaving the notice or other
paper at his residence, between the hours of eight in the mommg and six in the evening, with some person of suitable age
and discretion, or by mail, directed to such party.

SEC. 495. Service by mail may be made, when the person making the service, and the person on whom it is to be made, i
reside at different places, between which there is a regular
communication by mail.

SEC. 496. In case of service by mail, the notice or other 1
paper shall be deposited in the post-office, addressed to the
person on whom it is to be served, at his lace of residence,
and the postage paid, but the service sha 1 not be deemed
complete until the notice or other paper be received. And, in
such case, the time of service shall be increased one day for
every twent -five miles distance between the place of deposit
and lace 0 address.

EC. 497. A defendant shall be deemed to appear in an

action when he answers, demurs, or gives the plaintifff written
notice of his ap arance, or when an attorne gives notice of
appearance for  . After appearance, a efendant, or his
attorne , shall be entitled to notlce of all subsequent proceedings 0 which notice is required to be given. But, where a
defendant has not appeared, service of notice or papers need
162:1 be made upon him, unless he be imprisoned for want of

SE0. 498. When a plaintifff or a defendant who has a peared, resides out of the Territory, and has no attome 1n
the action or proceeding, the service may be made on the C erk
for  But in all cases where a party has an attorney in the
action or proceeding, the service of the tpa ers, when required,
shall be upon the attorne instead 0 t e part , except of
subpoenas, of writs, and ot er process issued .in t e suit, and
of papers to bring him into contempt.

SEC. 499. Successive actions may be maintained upon
the contract or transaction, whenever, after the former action,
a new cause of action arises therefrom.

SEC. 500. Whenever two or more actions are pending at
one time between the same parties, and in the same Court,
upon causes of action which might have been joined, the
Court may order the actions to be consolidated into one.

SEC. 501. An action may be brought by one erson
a ainst another, for the urpose of determining an verse
'c aim which the latter ma es against the former, for money or
pr0perty, upon an alleged obligation; and also against two or
more persons, for the purpose of compelling) one to satisfy a
debt due the other, for which the laintiff is ound as security.

SEC. 502. The Clerk shall eep, among the records of
the Court, a register of actions. He shall enter therein the
title of the action, with brief notes under it, from timetotime,
of all papers filed, and proceedings had therein.

SEC. 503. When there are three referees, or three arbitrators, all shall meet, but two of them may do any act which
might be done by all.

SEC. 504. The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this Act, shall be computed by excluding the first
day, and including the last. If the last day be Sunday, it shall
be excluded.

SEC. 505. An affidavit, notice, or other paper, without
the title of the action or roceeding in which it is made, or
with a defective title, shal be as valid and effectual for any
purpose as if duly entitled, if it intelliginy refer to sue
action or proceeding. ‘

SEC. 506. When a cause of action has arisen in a State,
or other Territory, or in a foreign country, and b the laws
thereof an action thereon cannot there be maintaine against a
person by reason of the elaplse of time, an action thereon shall
not be maintained against im in this Territor , except in favor

of a citizen thereof who has held the cause 0 action from the
time it accrued.

TITLE XVI.

0f Proceedings in Civil Cases, in Justices’ Courts.

CHAPTER 1.—OF THE PARTIES AND THE TIME AND PLACE
or COMMENCING ACTIONS IN J USTICEs’ COURTS.

SEC. 507. The rovisions of Title One of this Act, as to
arties to actions, all be applicable to actions of which a
ustices’ Court has jurisdiction. Justices’ Courts shall have
jurisdiction of the following actions and proceedings: FirstOf an action arising on contract for the recovery of money
only, if the sum claimed, exclusive of interest, does not
exceed one hundred dollars. Second—Of an action for damages
for injury to the person, or for taking or detaining personal
grOperty, or for injuring real or ersonal r0 erty, if the

amages claimed do not exceed one undred 01 ars. Third——
Of an action for a fine, penalty or forfeiture, not exceeding
one hundred dollars, given by statute. Fourth—Of an action
upon a bond, conditloned for the a ent of money, not
exceeding one hundred dollars, thong t e penalty exceed that
sum, the judgment to be given for the sum actually due.
When the payments are made by installments, an action may
be brought for each ihstallment as it becomes due. Fifth—
Of an action u on a surety bond or undertaking, thou h the
Eenalty excee , if the amount claimed does not excee , one

undred dollars. Sixth—Of an action to recover the possession
of personal propert , when the value of such propert does
not exceed one hun red dollars. Seventh—To take an enter
jud ment on the confession of a defendant when the amount
con essed does not exceed one hundred dollars. Eighth—Of
actions for the possession of lands and tenements where the relation of landlord and tenant exists. Ninth—Of plmceedings
reSpectin vagrants and disorderly persons. Tent —Of suits
for the co ectlon of taxes, where the amount of the tax sued
for does not exceed one hundred dollars. The jurisdiction
conferred by this Section shall not extend to a civil action in
which the title to real estate or mining claims or questions to
boundaries of lands are involved, orto actions to enforce mechanic’s liens, and if questions of title to real property be involved,
or cases involving such uestions shall be dis osed of as hereafter provided in this ct. The Courts he] by Justices of
the Peace shall be denominated Justices’ Courts. They shall
have no terms, but shall always be Open. Justices’ Courts
shall be held in their reSpective precincts.

SEC. 508. Parties in Justices’ Courts may prosecute or
defend in person or by attorney; and any person, on the
request of a party, may act as his attorney, except that the
Constable, by whom the summons or jury rocess was served,
shall not appear or act on the trial in beh f of either party.

SEC. 509. No person shall be held to answerto any summons issued against him from a Justices’ Court, in a clv1l

action, in any precinct other than the one in which he shall
reside, except in the cases following: First—When there shall
be no Justices’ Court for the precinct in which the defendant
may reside, or no Justice competent to act on the case.
Second—When two or more persons shall be jointly, or jointly
and severally, bound in any debt or contract, or otherwise
jointly liable in the same action and reside in different precincts of the same County, or in different Counties, the plaintifff may prosecute his action in a Justices’ Court of the recinct
in which any of the debtors, or other persons liab e, may
reside. Third—In cases of injury to the person, or to
real or personal prOperty, the plalntifl' may prosecute his
action in the precinct where t e injury was committed.
Fourth—When personal property unjustl taken or detained
is claimed, or damages therefore are claim , the plaintifff may
bring his action in any precinct in which the ro rt may be

found, or in which the r0perty was taken. ift —— en the
defendant is a non-resi ent of the County, he ma be sued in
any precinct wherein he may be found. Sixth— en a person has contracted to perform any obligation at a particular
place, and resides in another precinct, e may be sued in the
precinct in which such obligation is to be performed, or in
which he resides. ‘

SEC. 510. Judgment u n confession may be entered up
in any Justices’ Court in t e Territo specified in the confession. The provisions of Title Ten, C apter Two, of this Act
shall apply to such confession, the word “Justice” being substitute or that of Clerk wherever it may occur.

SEC. 511. Justices’ Courts shall have jurisdiction of an
action upon the voluntary appearance of the parties without
summons, without regard to t eir residences or the place where
the cause of action arose, or the subject matter of action may
ex1s -.

CHAPTER 2.—SUMM0Ns, ARREST, ATTACHMENT AND CLAIM
OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

SEC. 512. Actionsin Justices’ Courts shall be commenced
by iilin a cop of the account, note, bill, bond or instrument
upon w ich t e action is brought, or a concise statement in
writing of the cause of action, and the issuance of a summons
thereon, or by the voluntary ap arance and pleadings of the

arties without summons. In t e latter case the action shall
deemed commenced at the time of appearance.

SEC. 513. When. a guardian is necessary, he shall be
appointed by the Justice, as follows:. First—If the minor be a
p aintiif, the ap ointment shall be made before the summons
is issued, upon t e application of the minor, if he be of the age
of fourteen years or upwards; if under that age, upon the app ication of some relative or friend. The consent in writing of
the guardian to be appointed, and to be res onsible for costs,
if he fail in the action, shall be first filed) with the Justice.

Secon d—If the minor be defendant, the guardian shall be
a pointed at the time the summons is returned or before the
p eadings. It shall be the right of the minor to nominate his
own guardian, if the minor be over fourteen years of age, and
the proposed guardian be present and consent in writing to be
appointed. Otherwise the Justice may appoint any suitable
person who gives such consent.

SEC. 514. The summons shall be addressed to the defendant b name, or if his name be unknown, b a fictitious name,
and all summon him to appear before the ustice at his odioe,
naming its precinct, and at a time specified therein , to answer the
complaint of the plaintifff, for a cause of action therein described,
in general terms, sufficient to apprise the defendant of the nature
of the claim against him; and, in action for money or damages,
shall state the amount for which the laintiffwill take judgment,
if the defendant fail to appear an answer. It shall be subscribed by the Justice before whom it is returnable.

SEC. 515. The time mentioned in the summons for the
ap arance of the defendant, and the time of service shall be
as ollows: First—When the summons is accompanied with an
order to arrest the defendant, it shall be returnable immediately. Second—When the defendant is not a resident of the
precinct, or when the plaintiii‘ is not a resident, it shall be
returnable not more than two days from its date, and shall be
served at least one day before the time for a pearance, except
in cases where the summons is to be served y publication, or
out of the Territory, or by posting notices thereof, when it
shall be made returnable at any time desi nated by the J ustice, not exceeding sixty days from the ate of its issuance.
Third—In all other cases it s all be returnable in not less than
two or more than ten days from its date, and shall be served
at least two days before the time for appearance.

SEC. 516. The summons shall be served by the Sheriff, or?
a Constable of the County, or b any male citizen of the United
States over twenty-one years 0 age, as follows: First—If the
action be against a corporation, by a delivery of a copy to the
President, or other head of the co oration, or to the secretary,
cashier or managing agent therelolf’, or when no such officer
resides in the County, to a director resident therein. Second—
If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, by delivery
of a cOpy to such minor, and also to his father, mother or
guardian; or if there be none within the County, then to any
person having the care or control of such minor, or with whom

e resides, or in whose service he is. Third—If against a erson judicially declared to be of unsound mind, or mcapab e of
conducting his own affairs, and for whom a guardian has been
appointed, by delivery of a cOpy to such guardian. Fourth—
In all other cases, by delivery of the cOpy to the defendant
personally.

SEC. 517. Sections Thirt to Thirty-Five, both inclusive,
0f Title Three of this Act are ereby made applicable. to Jus-§
tices’ Courts, and proceedings therein—the word “Justice” g
being inserted wherever the word “Clerk” or “Judge” occurs,

and the word “Constable” inserted wherever the words “Territorial Matshal” or “Sheriff” occur, and the word “com laint”
whenever it occurs being stricken out and disregarde : provided, that in actions upon contracts for the pa ent of
money, the Justice may, in his discretion, instead 0 ordering
publication of summons, or the appointment of an attorney to
appear for the defendant, order the service of the summons to
be made by paging c0pies thereof in three public places in the
precinct, wit ' one day after the. same is Issued.

SEC. 518. An order to arrest the defendant may be endorsed on a summons issued b the Justice, and the defendant
may be arrested thereon by t e Sheriff, or Constable, at the
time of serving the summons, and brought before the Justice,
and there detained until duly discharged, in the following
cases, arising after the passage of this Act: First—In an action
for the recovery of money or damages on a cause of action
arising upon a contract, express or implied, when the defendant is about to depart from the County or Territory, with the
intent to defraud his creditors; or where the action is for the
willful injury to the erson, or for taking, detaining or injuring
personal property. econd—In an action for a fine or penalty,
or for money or gmperty embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or converte to h1s ‘own use by an attorney, factor,
broker, agent or clerk, in the course of his employment as
such, or by any other person in a fiduciary capamty. Third—
When the. defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting
the debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is
brought. Fourth—When the defendant has removed, concealed or disposed of his prOperty, or is about to do so, with
intent to defraud his creditors.

SEC. 519. Before an order of arrest shall be made, the
part ap 1 'ng shall prove to the satisfaction of the J ustioe ,
b t e a avit of himself or some other person, the facts on
w 'ch the application is founded. The plaintifff shall also
execute and eliver to the Justice a written undertaking, with
two or more sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover
judgment, the plaintifff will pay to him all costs that may be
awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may
sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum s e01geclil inthe undertaking, which shall be at least one hun red

0 ars.

SEC. 520. The defendant, immedlately upon being arrested, shall be taken to the office of the Justice who made the
order, and if he be absent or unable to try the action, or if it
be made to appear to him, by the afIidavit of the defendant,
that he is a material witness in the action, the officer shall
Immedlately take the defendant before a Justice of that, or an
adjommg precinct of the County, who shall take cognizance
of the actlon, and proceed thereon as if the summons had been
issued and the order of arrest made by him.

; . SEC.. 521. The officer making the arrest shall immediately
give notice thereof to the plaintifff, or his attome or agent,
and endorse on the summons, and subscribe a certi ’cate, stating the time of serving the same, the time of the arrest, and of
his giving notice to the plaintifff. '

SEC. 522. The officer makingl an arrest shall keep the
defendant in custody until duly ischarged by order of the‘
Justice.

SEC. 523. The defendant under arrest, on his appearance
with the officer, may demand a trial immediately; and upon
such demand being made, the trial shall not be delayed beyond
twelve hours, except by the trial of another action nding at
the time, or he may have an adjournment, and be 'scharged
on giving bail, as provided in the next Section. An adjournment at the request of the plaintifff, beyond twelve hours,
shall discharge the defendant from arrest; but the action may
proceed notw1thstanding; and the defendant shall be sub'ect
to arrest, on the execution, in the same manner as if he ad
not been so dischar d.

SEc. 524. If t e defendant on his a pearance, demand
an adjournment, the same shall be grante , on condition that
he execute, and file with the J ustice, an undertakin , with
two or more sufiicient sureties, to be ap roved by the ustice,
to the effect that he will render himse f amenable to the process of the Court durin the ndency of the action, and such
as may be issued, to en orce t e 'udgment therein, or that the
sureties will pay to the plaintifff t e amount of any judgment
which he ma recover in the action. On filing the undertaking
specified in t 's Section, the Justice shall order the defendant
to be discharged from custody. SEC. 525. The following Sections of Chapter One, Title
Five, of this Act shall be applicable to Justices’ Courts and
proceedings therein, to wit: Eighty .to Eighty-Five, both
mclusive; and the following of apter Two, same Title, to
wit: Ninety-Nine to One Hundred and Two, both inclusive;
One Hundred and Four and One Hundred and Seven to One
Hundred and Ten, both inclusive; the word “Justice” being
inserted in lieu of “Clerk” or “Judge” wherever they occur,
and the word “Constable” in lieu of the words “Territorial
Marshal” or “Sheriii';” also Sections One Hundred and TwentyThree to One Hundred and Forty-Four both inclusive; the
word “Justice” being inserted in heu of that of “Judge” and
“Clerk” whenever it may occur: provided, that the writ of
attachment shall be directed to the “Sheriff” or any Constable
of any Count of this Territory, and may be executed by the
Constable, an wherever the word “Sheriff” occurs the word
“Constable” shall be deemed to be also inserted.

CHAPTER 3.—PLEADINGS AND TRIAL.

SEC. 526. The pleadings in Justices’ Courts shall be:
First—The complaint by the plaintifff, stating the cause of
action. Second—The answer by the defendant, stating the
ground of the defense.

SEC. 527. The pleadings shall be in writing, and verified

l by the oath of the party, his agent or attorney, when the action
is: First—For the oreclosure of any mortgage or the enforcement of any lien on personal property. Second—Of actions
for the possession of lands or tenements: provided, always,
that the amount claimed does not exceed one hundred dollars.

SEC. 528. When the pleadings are oral, the substance of
them shall be entered by the Justice in his docket; when in
writing, they shall be filed in his office, and a reference made
to them in the docket. Pleadings shall not be re uired to be
in any particular form, but shall be such as to ena le a person
of common understandin to know what is intended.

SEC. 529. The comp aint shall state in a plain and direct
manner the facts constituting the cause of action.

SEC. 530. The answer may contain a denial of any of the
material facts stated in the complaint which the defendant
believes to be untrue, and also a statement, in a lain and
direct manner, of any other facts constituting a de ense, or a
counterclaim upon which an action may be brought by the
defendant against the plaintifff in a Justice’s Court.

SEC. 531. A statement in answer that the party has not
sufficient knowledge or information in respect to a particular
allegation in the previous pleading of the adverse party, to
form a belief, shal be deemed equivalent to a denial.

SEC. 532. When the cause, of action or counterclaim
arises upon an account or instrument for the ayment of
money only, it shall be suiiicient for the party to de ivera copy
of the account or instrument to the Court, and to state that
there is due to him thereu on, from the adverse party, a
speciiied sum, which he c aims to recover or set off. The
Court may, at the time of the pleading, re uire that the original account or instrument be exhibited tot e inspection of the
adverse (farty, and a copy to be furnished, or 1f it be not so
exhibite , and a copy so furnished, may prohibit its being
afterwards given in evidence.

SEC. 533. If the plaintifff annex to his complaint, or file
with the Justice at the time of issuing the summons, a COpy
of the promissory note, bill of exchange, or other written
obligation for the (payment of money, upon which the action
is brought, the efendant shall be deemed to admit the
genuineness of the signatures of the makers, indorsers or
assignors thereof, unless he s ecifically deny the same in his
answer, and verify the answer y his oath.

SEC. 534. Either party may object to a pleading of his
adversary, or to any part thereof, that it is not sufficiently
explicit to enable him to understand it, or that it contains no
cause of action or defense, although'it be taken as true. If
the Court deem the objection well founded, it shall order the

leading to be amended, and if the (party refuse to amend, the
efective pleading shall be diSregar ed.

SEC. 535. A variance between the proof on the trial and
the allegations in a pleading shall be disregarded as immaterial, un ess the Court be satisfied that the adverse party has
been misled to his prejudice thereby.

SEC. 536. The pleadings may be amended at any time
before the trial, to supply a deficiency or omission, w en by
such amendment substantial justice will be promoted. If the
amendment be made after the issue, and it be made to appear

’ to the satisfaction of the Court, by oath, that an adjournment
is necessary to the adverse part in consequence of such
amendment, an adjournment sha 1 be granted. The .Court
may also, in its discretion, require as a condition of an amendment, the payment of costs to the adverse party, to be fixed
by the Court, not exceeding ten dollars, but such payment
shall not be required unless an adjournment is made necessary
by the amendment, nor shall an amendment be allowed after
a Witness is sworn on the trial, when an adjournment thereby
will be made necessary.

SEC. 537. The parties shall not be at liberty to give evidence upon any question which involves the title to, or
the right of possession of real prOperty or mining claims,
or upon any question involving boundaries to land, or the
legality of any tax, impost, assessment, toll or munici al fine,
nor shall any issue presenting such question be trie by the
Justice, and if it appear from the plaintifff’s own showing, on
the trial, or from the answer of the defendant, verified by his
oath, that the determination of the action will necessaril
involve either of such uestions, the Justice shall sus end a I
further proceedino's in t e action, and certif the plea ings, or
if the pleadings Dbe oral, a transcri t of t e same from his
docket to the Probate Court for the ounty, and from the time
of filing such proceedin s or transcript Wlth the Clerk of the
Probate Court, such Pro ate Court shall have over the action
the same jurisdiction as if it were originally commenced
therein.

SEC. 538. If, at any time before the trial, it appearto the
satisfaction of the Justice before whom the action is brought,
by affidavit of either party, that such Justice is a material witness for either party, or if either arty make affidavit that he
has reason to believe, and does be 'eve, that he cannot have a
fair and impartial trial before such Justice, by reason of the
interest, prejudice or bias of the Justice, on statin the facts
upon winch such belief is founded, the action shal be transferred to some other Justice of the same or adjoining reCinct,
in the same County, and in case a jury be deman ed, and
afEdavit of either party is made that he cannot have a fair and
impartial trial, on account of the bias or prejudice of the citizens of the precinct against him, the action shall be transferred
to some other Justice of the Peace in the County, but only one
transfer shall be allowed to either party. The Justice to whom
an action may be transferred by t e provisions of this Section
shall have and exercise the same jurisdiction over the action as
if it had been originally commenced before him. The Justice
ordering the transfer of the action to another Justice, shall
immediately transmit to the latter, on payment by the a plicant of all Justices’ and officers’ costs unpaid and due rom
him, and the costs of making a copy of the docket for transmission, all/the papers in the action, together with a certified
transcript from his docket of the proceedmgs therein: provided
that if the applicant fail to pay said costs for the space of
three hours, the Justice may vacate the order changmg the
place of trial, and proceed to try the cause as though such
order had not been made. The Justice to whom the case is
transferred, shall issue a notice stating the time and place
when and where the trial will take place; which notice shall be
served 11 on the parties by any officer authorized to serve process in a ustice’s Court, or by any person Specially ap ointed
by athe Justice for that purpose, at least one day be ore the
tri .

SEC. 539. The trial may be adjourned by consent or u n
application of either party, without the consent of the ot er,
for a period not exceeding ten days, (except as provided inthe
next Section) as follows: First—The party asking the adjournment shall, if required by his adversary, prove, by his own
oath or otherwise, that he cannot, for want of material testimony which he expects to procure, safely proceed to trial,
And shall show in what res ct the testlmony eXpected is
material, and that he has use due dili ence to procure it, and
has been unable to do so. Second—%‘he arty asking the
adjournment shall also, if required by the verse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of such adverse party,
who is in attendance be then taken by deposition before the
Justice, which shall accordin ly be done, and the testimony so
taken may be read on the tria , with the same effect and subject
to the same objections as if the witness were produced. But
such objections shall be made at the time of taking the deposition. Third—The Court ma also require the moving arty
to state upon affidavit the evi ence which he expects to o tain,
and if the adverse arty thereupon admit that such evidence
would be given, an that it be considered as actually given on
the trial, or offered and overruled as immoper, the trial shall
not be postponed.

SEC. 540. An adjournment may be had either at the time
of joining issue, or at any subsequent time to which the case
may stand adjourned, on appllcation of either fparty, for a
penod longer than ten days, but not to exceed our months
from the time of the return day of the summons, upon proof,
by the oath of the party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the
Justice, that such party cannot be ready for trial before the
time to which he desires an adjournment for want of material
evidence, particularly describing it, and that the delay has not
been made necessary by any act of negligence on his art since
the action was commenced; that he has used due d' ' ence’to

rocure the evidence, and has been unable to do so, and that

e expects to procure the evidence at the time stated by him:
provided, that if the adverse party admit that such evidence
would be given, and consent t at 1t may be considered as given
on the trial, or offered and overruled as imprOper, the adjournment shall not be had.

SEC. 541. No adjournment shall be granted for a period

longer than ten days, upon the application of either party,
except upon conditlon that such party file an undertaking,
with sureties, to be approved by the Justice, to the effect that
they will pay to the opposite party, the amount of any judgment that may be recovered f§ainst the party applying.

SEC. 542. If the plaint' fail to appear at the return da
of the summons, the action shall be dismissed. If the defen ant fail to a pear at the return day of the summons, or if
either party 11 to attend at a day to which the trial has been
adjourned, or fail to make the necessary pleading or proof on
his part, the case may nevertheless proceed at the request of
the adverse party, and judgment shall be given in conformity
with the pleadin s and proofs.

SEC. 543. - trial b jury shall be demanded at the time
of joining issue, and sh be deemed waived if neither part
then demand it. When demanded, the trial of the case sh,
be adjourned until a time and place fixed for the return of the
jury. If neither party desire an adjournment, the time and
place shall be determined by the Justice, and shall be on the
same day or within the next two days. The jury shall be
summoned upon an order of the Justice, from the citizens of
the recinct, and not from the bystanders.

EC. 544. At the time appointed for the trial, the Justice
shall proceed to call from the jurors summoned, the names of
the persons to constitute the jury for the trial of the issue.
The jury, by consent of the parties, may consist of any number not more than six nor less than three.

SEC. 545. If a suilicient number of com etent and
indifferent jurors do not attend, the Justice shall ct others
to be summoned from the vicinity, and not from the bystanders, sufiicient to complete the jury.

SEO. 7 546. Either party may challenge the jurors. The
challenges shall be either peremptory or for cause. Each party
shall be entitled to three peremptory challenges. Either party
may challen for cause on any grounds set forth in Section
One Hundre and Sixty-Three. Challenges for cause shall be
tried by the Justice in a summary manner, who may examine
the juror challenged and witnesses.

CHAPTER 4.—JUnGMENT AND EXECUTION.

SEC. 547. Judgment that the action be dismissed without
rejudice to a new action, may be entered, with costs, in the
ollowing cases: First—When the laintiff voluntaril dismisses the action before it is finally su mitted. Second— en
he fails to appear at the time specified in the summons, or
u on adjournment, or within one hour thereafter. Third—

hen it is objected at the trial, and appears by the evidence
that the action is brought in the wron county or precinct; but
if the objection be taken and overrule , it shall be cause only
of reversal on appeal, and shall not otherwise invalidate the

judgment; if not taken at the trial, it shall be deemed waived,
and shall not be a cause of rever . ‘

SEC. 548. When the defendant fails to appear and
answer 'udgment shall be 'ven for the plaintifff, as follows:
First—l en a cOpy of t e account, note, bill or other
obligation upon which the action is brought, was filed with the
J ustlce at the time the summons was issued, judgment shall
be given without further evidence, for the sum s ecilied in the
summons. Second—In other cases the Justice s all hear the
evidence of the plaintifff and render judgment for such sum
only as shall appear by the evidence to be just, but in no case
exceeding the amount specified in the summons.

SEC. 549. Upon issue joined, if a Jury trial be not demanded, the Justice shall hear the evidence and decide all
guelstions of fact and of law, and render judgment accord1n . ,

g 3éEc. 550. Upon a verdict, the Justice shall immediately
render judgment accordingly. When the trial is by the
Justice, judgment shall be entered immediately after the close
of 7 the trial, if the defendant has been arrested and is still in
custody; in other cases, it shall be entered Within four days
after the close of the trial. If the action be on contract against
two or more defendants, and the summons is served on one or
more, but not on all, the judgment shall be entered up only
against those who were served or have voluntarily appeared, 1f
the contract be a several, or a joint and several contract; but if
the contract be a joint contract only, the judgment shall be
entered up against all the defendants, but shall only be enforced against the joint prOperty of all, and the individual
prOperty of the defendants served or who have voluntarily
appeared in the action. In an action on a contract, or obhgation for the direct payment of money, judgment for the

laintifi', whether the same be by default, or after verdict or

ecision of the Court, shall follow the contract or obligation.

SEC. 551. When the amount found due to either party
exceeds the sum for which the Justice is authorized to enter
judgment, such arty may remit the excess, and the judgment
may be rendere for the residue.

SEC. 552. If the defendant, at any time before the trial,

' offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken against him for
a specified sum, the plaintifff may immediately have judgment

.therefore, with the costs then accrued; but if he do not accept
such offer before the trial, and fail to recover in the action a
sum equal to the offer, he shall not recover costs, but costs
shall be adjudged against him, and if he recover, be deducted
from his recovery. ut the offer, and failure to accept it, shall
not be given in evidence to affect the recovery otherwise than
as to costs as above provided.

SEC. 553. When a judgment is rendered in a case, where
the defendant is subject to arrest and imprisonment thereon,
a; slliialtl be so stated in the judgment and entered in the

oc e .

SEC. 554. When the prevailing party is entitled to costs

by this Chapter, the. justice shall add their amount to the
verdict, or in case of a failure of the laintilf ‘to recover, or in
case of a dismissal of the action, sh enter up judgment in
favor of defendant for the amount of such costs.

SEC. 555. The Justice, on demand of the party in whose
favor judgment is rendered, shall give him a transcri t thereof, which may be ’dled and docketed in the office of t e Clerk
of the Probate Court for the county where the judgment was
rendered. The time of the recei t of the transcnpt by the
Clerk shall be noted by him t ereon, and entered in the
docket, and from that time executions may be issued by the
Clerk on such judgments, to the Sheriff of any other county
of the Territory in the same manner as upon judgments
recovered in the higher Courts. All process upon judgments
recovered in Justices’ Courts, to be executed w1thin the same
county, shall be issued by the Justice or his successors in
oHice. No judgment rendered by a Justice of the Peace shall
create any lien upon any lands of the defendant, unless a
transcript of such judgment certified by the Justice, be flle
and recorded in the office of the County Recorder. When
such transcript is to be filed in any other county than that in
which the Justice resides, such transcript shall be accom anied
with the certificate of the Count Clerk as to the ofiici character of the Justice. When so led, and recorded in the office
of the Recorder for any county, such jud ent shall constitute a lien upon, and bind the lands an tenements of the
judgment debtor, situated in the county where such transcript
may be filed and recorded in favor of Such judgment creditor,
as if such judgment had been rendered in the Probate Court
for such county.

SEC. 556. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment
in a Justice’s Court, may be issued on the application of the
party entitled thereto, at any time within three years from the
entry of judgment.

SEC. 557. The execution when issued by a Justice, shall
be directed to the Sheriff, or to a constable of the county, and
subscribed by the Justice by whom the judgment was rendered,
or by his successor in office. It shall intelliginy refer to the
judgment, by stating the names of the parties, and the name
of the Justice before whom, and of the Count and precinct
where, and the time when it was rendered, t e amount of
judgment, if it be for money, and if less than the whole is due,
the true amount due thereon. It shall contain, in like cases,
similar directions to the Sheriff, or Constable, as are required
by the provisions of Title Seven of this Act, in an executlon to
the Territorial Marshal, or Sheriff.

SEC. 558. The Sheriff, or Constable, to whom the execu-1
tion is directed shall proceed to execute the same in the same «
manner as the Territorial Marshal, or Sh erifi', is required, by
the provisions of Title Seven of this Act, to proceed upon executions directed to him; and the Constable, when the execution
is directed to 'him, shall be vested for that pu ose with all
the powers of the Territorial Marshal, or She ' . And Sections Two Hundred and Twelve, Two Hundred and Thirteen

and from two Hundred and Fifteen to Two Hundred and:
Thirt ~four, both inclusive, and Two Hundred and Thirty-Six

and o Hundred and Thirty-Seven of Chapter One, said Title:
and Cha ter Two, of the same Title, are hereby made applica‘ble to ustices’ Courts and proceedings therein, the word
“Justice” being inserted in lieu of the words “Judge” and
“Clerk,” whenever they occur, and a Constable to whom, and
his successor in office, the writ is given, shall have all the
powers and be subject to all the duties and liabilities therein
given to or imposed upon the Territorial Marshal, or Sheriff;
provided, that the words “in an amount not exceeding fifty
dollars,” in Section Two Hundred and Forty-One shall be
deemed omitted.

CHAPTER 5.-—GENERAL PROVISIONS.

SEC. 559. Those provisions of this Act which are referred
to in this Title and no other, shall, in addition to the rovisions embraced in this Title, be applicable to Justices’ ‘ourts
and roceedings therein.

‘E0. 560. Every Justice shall keep a book denominated
a “docket,” in which he shall enter: F1rst—The title of every
action or proceeding. Second—The ob'ect of the action or
proceeding; and if a sum of mone be c aimed, the amount of
the demand. Third—The date 0 the summons and the time
of its return; and if an order to arrest the defendant be made,
or a writ of aetachment be issued, a statement of these facts.
Fourth—The time when the parties, or either of them ap ar,
or their non-a pearance, if default be made; a minute 0 the
pleadings an motions, if in writing, referring to them, if not
1n writing, a concise Statement of the material parts of the
pleading, and of all motions made during the trial by either
party, and his decisions thereon. Fifth—Every adjournment,
stating on whose application, whether on oath, evidence or
consent, and to what time. Sixth—The demand for a trial by
jury, when the same is made, and by whom made, the order
for the jury, and the time appointed for the trial and the return
of the jury. Seventh—The names of the jury who appear and
are sworn, the names of all witnesses sworn, at whose re uest.
Eighth—The verdict of the jury, and when received. the
jury disagree, and are discharged, the fact of such disagreement and discharge. Ninth—The judgment of the Court,
apecifyin the costs included, and the time when rendered.

enth—‘Iae issuin of the execution, when issued, and to
whom; the renew s thereof, if any, and when made, and a.
statement of any money paid to the Justice, and when and by
whom. Eleventh—The receipt of a notice of ap 3.1, if anybe
given, and of the appeal bond, if any be file , and of the
making and delivery of a transcript of his judgment or docket.

SEC. 561. The several articulars of the last Section
specified, shall be entered un er the title of the action to which

they relate, and at the time when they occur. Such entries in
a. Justice’s docket, or a transcript thereof, certified by the J ustice, or his successor in office, shall be primary evidence to
prove the facts so stated therein.

SEC. 562. A Justice shall keep an alphabetical index to.
his docket in which shall be entered the names of the parties
to each ju ent, with a reference to the page of entry. The
names of the plaintifffs shall be entered 1n the index, in the
alphabetical order of the first letter of the family names.

SEC. 563. It shall be the duty of every Justice, upon the:
expiration of his term of office, to de osit with his successor:
his official dockets, as well his own ast ose of his predecessors,
which may be in his custody, to kee as public records. If the
office of a Justice become vacant by 's death, or removal from
the precinct, or otherwise, before his successor is elected and

ualnied the dockets in possession of such Justice shall be
e sited with the County Clerk of the County, to be by him
de 'vered to the successor in office of the J ustlce.

SEC. 564. Any Justice with whom the docket of his PIG“
decessors is deposited, may issue execution or other rocess,j
upon a judgment there entered and unsatisfied, in t e same
manner and with the same effect as the Justice by whom the
judgment was entered mi ht have done. In case of the creation of a new County, or t 1e change of the boundary between
two Counties, any Justice into whose hands the docket of a
Justice formerly acting as such within the same territory may
come, shall for the purposes of this Section be considered the
successor of said former Justice.

SEC. 565. The Justice elected or a pointed to fill a
vacanc , shall be deemed the successor o the Justice whose
office ecame vacant before the expiration of a full term. '
When the full term expires, the same or another person elected
to take the office in the same precinct, from that time shall be
deemed the successor.

SEC. 566. When two or more Justices are equally entitled, under the last Section, to be deemed the successors in
office of a Justice, the Judge of the Probate Court for the
Count shall, by a certificate a subscribed by him and flle. in
the o ce of the Count Clerk, designate which Justice shall
be the successor of a ustice going out of office, or whose office
has become vacant. SEC. 567. The summons, execution, and every other
palper made or issued by a Justice, exce t a subpoena, shall be
11 ed without a blank left to be f1 ed by another, otherwise it s all be void. '

SEC. 568. In case of the sickness, or other disability, or
necessary absence of a Justice on a return day of a summons,
or at the time a pointed for a trial, another J ustice of the same

County or an a 'oinin precinct of the County, may, at his request, attend in is be alf, and shall thereupon become vested
with the power for the time being, of the Justice before whom
the summons was returnable. In that case, the proper entry of
.the proceedings before the attending Justice, subscribed by

him, shall be made in the docket of the Justice before whom
the summons was returnable. If the case be adjourned, the
Justice, before whom the summons was returnable, may
resume jurisdiction.

SEC. 569. The Justice may, at the request of the arty,
and on being satisfied that it IS expedient, specially epute
any discreet person of suitable age, and not interested in the
action, to serve a summons or execution with or without an
order to arrest the defendant, or with or without a writ of
attachment. The said Justice shall be liable on his official
bond for all ofiicial acts of the person so deputed. Such deputation shall be in writing on the process.

SEC. 570. The person deputed shall have the authority
:of a constable in relation to the service, execution and return
of such process, and shall be subject to the same obligations.

SEC. 571. A constable, notwithstanding the expiration of
his term of office, may roceed and complete the execution of
all final process, which e has begun to execute, in the same
manner as if he still continued in office, and his sureties shall
be liable to the same extent.

SEC. 572. A Justice may unish as for contempt persons
guilty of the following acts, an no other: First—Disorderly,
contemptuous, or insolent behavior toward the Justice while
holding the Court, tending to interrupt the due course of a
trial or other judicial proceeding. Second—A breach of the
the peace, boisterous cenduct, or violent disturbance in the

resence of the Justice or in the immediate vicinity of the

ourt held by him, tending to interrupt the due course of trial
or other judicial proceedings. Third—Disobedience or resistance to the execution of a lawful order or process, made or
issued by him. Fourth—Disobedience to a subpoena duly
served, or refusing to be sworn or answer as a witness. Fifth—
Rescuing any person or property in the custody of an oilicei'
by virtue of an order or process of the Court held b him.

SEO. 57 3. When a contempt isfcommitted in t e immediate view and resence of the Justice, it may be punished
. summarily, for w ich an order shallbe made reciting the facts,
as occurring in such immediate view and resence, ad'udging
that the person roceeded against is there y guilty 0 a contempt, and that e be punished as therein prescribed. When
the contempt is not committed in the immediate view and
presence of the Justice, a warrant of arrest may be issued b
such Justice, on which the person so guilty may be arreste
and brou ht before the Justice immediately, when an op ortunity to heard in his defense or excuse shall be given. he
Justice may thereupon discharge him, or may convict him of
the offense. A Justice may punish for contempts by fine or
imprisonment, or both; such a iine not to exceed in any case
fifty dollars, and such imprisonment one day.

SEC. 574. The conviction, specifying particularly the
offense and the judgment thereon, shall be entered by the
Justice in his docfiet. SEC. 575. Justices of the Peace may issue subpoenas in

any action or proceeding in the Courts held by them, and linal

rocess on an judgment recovered therein, to any part of the

ounty. A ustice of the Peace may issue a summons to any
person a resident of his precinct, to appear before him at hls
office to act as interpreter in any action or proceeding in his
Court. Such summons shall be served and returned in like
manner as a subpcnna issued by a Justice. Any person so
summoned shall, for a failure to attend at the time and place
named in the summons, be deemed guilty of a contempt, and
may be punished accordingly.

SEC. 57 6. Justices of the Peace may issue commissions to
take the depositions of witnesses out of this Territory, and
settle interrogatories to be annexed thereto, and direct the
manner in which the commissions shall be returned. The provisions of Title Eleven of this Act, so far as the same are consistent with the jurisdiction and owers of Justices’ Courts,
shall be applicable to Justices’ ourts, and to actions and
proceedings therein, the word “Justice” being deemed inserted
1n lieu of “Clerk” and “Judge” wherever the same occur.

SEC. 577. A new trial may be granted by the Justice, on
motion, within ten days after the (alt of judgment, for an 3
of the following causes: First—Acci ent or surprise, whic 1
ordinary prudence could not have guarded against. Second—
Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the
influence of passion. Third—Insufficiency of the evidence to
justify the verdict or other decision. Fourth—Newly discovered evidence material for the arty making the a plication,
which he could not with reasonable diligence have 1scovered
and roduced at the time.

EC. 578. The application shall be made u on affidavit
and notice. The affidavit shall be filed with the ustice, with a statement of the grounds upon which the arty intends to
rely. The adverse party ma use counter a davits on the
motion, provided they be file one day previous to the hearing
of the motion.

SEC. 57 9. Any arty dissatisfied with a judgment rendered in a Justice’s ourt, may appeal therefrom to the Pro-1'
bate Court for the County, any time within thirty days after
the rendition of 'udgment: provided, that no appeal shall be
taken for a sum ess than twenty dollars. The appeal shall be
taken by filing a notice thereof with the Justice, and serving a
cOpy on the adverse party. .

SEC. 580. All causes appealed to the Probate Court shall
be tried anew in said Court, and said Court may regulate by
rule the practice in such cases, in all respects not provided for
by statute.

SEC. 581. Upon receiving the notice of appeal, and on
payment of the fees of the Justice, and filing an undertaking
as required in the next Section, the Justice shall, within five
days, transmit to the Clerk of the Probate Court a certified
copy of his docket, the pleadings, all notices, motions and
other pa. ers filed in the cause, the notice of appeal and undertaking leed; and the Justice may be compelled by the Probate

Court, by an order entered upon motion, to transmit such
papers, and may be fined for neglect or refusal to transmit the
same. A ce ' ed c0py of such order may be served on the
Justice, by the arty or his attorney. In the Probate Court,
either arty sha have the benefit of all legal objections made
in the ustice’s Court.

SEC. 582. An appeal from a Justice’s Court shall not be
eflectual for any p se, unless an undertaking be filed ,
within five days after ' g the notice of appeal, with two or
more sureties, in the sum of one hundred o ars, for the pa ment of the costs on the appeal, or if a stay of proceedings
claimed, in a sum equal to twice the amount of the judgment,
including costs, when the judgment is for the payment of
money, or twice the value of the prOperty, including costs,
when the judgment is for the recovery of specific personal
property, and shall be to the effect, when the action is for the
recove of money, that the appellant will pay the amount of
the ju gment appealed from, and all costs 1f the appeal be
withdrawn or dismissed, or the amount of any judgment, and
all costs that may be recovered against him in said action in
the Probate Court. When the action is for the recovery of
specific personal pro rty, the undertaking shall be to the
e ect that the ap e ant will ay the judgment and costs
atppiealed from, an obey the 0 er of the Court made therein,
i t e appeal be withdrawn and dismissed, or will pay the
amount of any judgment and costs which may be recovered
against him in said action in the Probate Court, and will obe
any order made by the Court therein. The undertaking s
be accompanied by the affidavits of the sureties that they are
residents of the County, and are each worth the amount s ecilied in the undertaking, over and above all their just ebts
and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution.
The adverse party may, however, except to the sufficiency of
the sureties, within two days after the nling of the undertaking, and unless they and other sureties justify before the J ustice from whose Court the appeal is taken, within two days
thereafter, upon notice to the adverse arty, the appeal shall
be regarded as if no undertaking had Keen given. A deposit
of the amount of the judgment appealed from, including all
costs, or of the value of the preperty and all costs, in actions
for the recovery of specific personal pro erty, with the Justice,
shall be equivalent to the filing of t e undertakin in this
Section mentioned; and in such cases the Justice sha transmit the mone to the Clerk of the Court, to be by him paid
out on the or er of the Court. v

SEC. 583. If an execution be issued on the iiling of the
undertaking, staying all proceedings, the Justice shall, by
order, direct the officer to stay all proceedings on the same.
Such officer shall, upon payment of his fees for services
rendered on the execution, thereupon relinquish all prep’erty
levied upon, and deliver the same to the judgment de tor,
together with all monies collected from sales or otherwise. If
his fees be not paid, t e oiiicer may retain so much of the

property or proceeds thereof, as may be necessary to pay the
same.

SEC. 584. Costs in the action shall be allowed to the
revailing party in a Justice’s Court. The party in whose
avor a 'udgment is rendered, and who claims his costs, shall

file wit the Justice, within two days after the verdict or
decision of the Court, a memorandum of the items of his costs
in the action or proceeding, which shall be verified as precribed
in Section Four Hundred and Eighty-Four.

SEC. 585. Justices of the Peace shall receive from the
Sheriff, or constables of their county, all monies collected on
any process or order issued by their Courts respectivel , and
all monies paid to them in their ofiicial capaclty, an shall
pay the same over to the parties entitled to receive them,
.without delay. For a violatlon of this section the may be
removed from oince, and shall be deemed guilty 0 a misdemeanor.

SEC. 586. Justices of the Peace may, in all cases, require
a deposit of money, or an undertaking, as security for costs of
Court, before issuing a summons. .

SEC. 587. The provisions of Cha ter One, Title Ten, and
Sections Four Hundred and Ninety- ree to Five Hundred
and One, both inclusive, and Five Hundred and Four to Five

Hundred and Six, both inclusive, Title Fifteen of this Act,
and the miscellaneous rovisions of Title Eighteen, shall be
a plicable to Justice’s ourts and actions therein, the word
“ ustice” being deemed inserted in leiu of the word “Clerk,”

wherever it occurs.

TITLE XVII.

Moccllaneous Provisions.

. SEC. 588. The Supreme Court may make rules not
inconsistent with the Or anic Act and laws of the Territory, for
its own government an the government of the District Court;
but such rules shall not be in force until thirty days after their
ad0ption and publication.

SEC. 589. If an action be brought against a Territorial
Marshal, or Sheriii‘, for an act done by virtue of his office, and
he give written notice thereof to the' sureties on any bond of
indemnity received by him, the {Edgment recovered therem
shall be conclusive evidence of 's right to recover against
such sureties, and the Court, or Judge in vacation may, on
motion, upon notice of five days, order judgment to be entered
up ainst them for the amount so recovered, including costs.

EC. 590. Words used in this Act in the present tense,
shall be deemed to include the future as well as the present;
words used in the singular number shall be deemed to iuclude
the plural, and the plural the sin ular; words used in one
gender may include either; writing s all be deemed to include
grinting or printed paper; oath to include affirmatlon or

eclaration; signature or subscription to include mark when

the person cannot write, his name being written near it, and
witnessed b a person who writes his own name as witness; the
words “re esta ” or “real property,” to include mining
claims; joint authority, given to three or more persons, is given
to the majority, unless restricted. Whenever the word Territory is used, it shall be held to include and apply to the
District of Columbia.
SEC. 591. In all cases where an undertaking with sureties
I;is retiuired by the provisions of this Act, the Judge, Justice,
or C erk, or other officer taking the same, shall, unless it is
otherwise provided in said Act, require the sureties to accompany the same with an affidavit that they are each worth the
sum specified in the undertaking, over and above all their just
debts and liabilities, exclusive of prOperty exem t from
execution; provided, that when the amount specifie in an
undertaking exceeds three thousand dollars, and there are
more than two sureties thereon, they may state in their affidavits that they are severall worth amounts less than that
expressed in the underta ' g, if the whole amount be
equivalent to that of two sufficient sureties.

SEC. 592. Writs of certiorari and mandamus ma be
'issued in the cases precribed by this Act, by Judges 0 the
Courts in term time or in vacation, and may, in the discretion
of the Judge issuing the writ, be made returnable, and a
hearing may be bad on the return thereof in vacation.

SEC. 593. Whenever prOperty has been taken by an
officer under a writ of attachment 1n pursuance of the provisions of this Act, and it shall be made to appear satisfactorily
to the Court, or Judge thereof, that the interests of the parties
to the action will sustained by the sale thereof, the Court, or
Judge, may order such property to be sold, in the same
manner as pro rty is sold un eranexecution,and the proceeds
to be deposite in Court to abide the judgment in the action.
Such order shall be made only upon notice to the adverse
party, or his attorney, in case such party has been personally
served with a summons in the action.

SEC. 594. A GOpy of an record,document or paper in the
custody of a public officer 0 this Territory, or of the United

» States, within this Territory, certified under the official seal, or
verified by the oath of such officer, to be a true, full and
correct copy of the Original in his custody, may be read in
evidence 1n any action or proceeding in the Courts of this
Territory, in like manner, and with the like effect, as the
original could be if produced.

.SEC. 595. When two or more persons, associate in any
busmess, transact such business under a common name
whether it comprises the names of such persons or not, the
associates may be sued by such common name, the summons
m such cases being served on one or more of the associates,
but the jud ent in such cases shall bind only the joint
property of t 1e associates. '

SEC. 596. A defendant against whom an action is
pending upon a contract, or for Specific personal property,

may at any time before answer, upon affidavit that a person,
not a party to the action, makes upon him, and without any
collu s10n with him, a demand upon the same contract, or for
the same prOperty, upon due notice to such person, and the
adverse party, apply to the Court for an order to substitute
such person in his place and discharge him from liability to
either party, on his de ositing in Court the amount claimed
on the contract, or de 'vering the property, or its value, to
such person as the Court may direct, and the Court may, in
its discretion, make the order.

SEC. 597. Any person shall be entitled to intervene in an
action who has an interest in the matter in litigation, in the
sucess of either of the parties to the action, or an interest
against both. ' An intervention takes place when a third person
is permitted to become a party to an action between other
persons, either by {oining the plaintifff in claimin what is
sought by the comp aint, or by unitin with the de endant in
resistin the claims of the plaintifff, or demanding anything
adverse y to both the laintiii‘ and the dYafendant.

SEC. 598. A thir person may intervene either before or
after issue has been joined in the cause.

SEC. 599. The intervention shall be by petition or complaint filed in the Court in which the action is pending; and it
mu st set fourth the grounds on which the intervention rests.
A copy of the petition or complaint shall be served u n the

arty or parties to the action, against whom anyt ing is

emanded, who shall answer it as if it were an original conplaint in the action.

SEC. 600. The Court shall determine u on the intervention at the same time that the action is deci ed; if the claim
of the party intervening is not sustained, he shall pay all costs
incurred by the intervention.

SEC. 601. No action to obtain a discovery under oath, in .
aid of the prosecution or defense of another action or proceeding, shall be allowed.

SEC. 602. In all cases, not otherwise provided for in this
Act, where sureties are required to 'ustify, they shall appear
before the officer or person authorize to take the justification,
and may be examined under oath by such officer or person, and
the adverse party touching their qualifications as sureties,
which examination shall be reduced to writing and subscribed
by the sureties if required. If, upon such examination, it
shall a pear to such officer or person that said sureties, or
either 0 them, have the necessary qualifications of such, heshall so indorse upon the statement, and cause the same to be
filed, and thereu on the justification shall be complete. '

‘ SEC. 603. e repeal of a law does not revive one previously repealed by it, nor affect any rights, duties, or penalties
which have arisen under it.

SEC. 604. Laws and parts thereof, and words and phrases, .
shall be construed in accordance with the customary usage of]
the languages. . . .

SEC. 605. “An Act in Relation to Abatement in Cm}

Actions, a proved January sixteenth, eighteen hundred and
' sixty-one,’ “An Act Containing Provisions Applicable to the
Laws of the Territory of Utah, approved January fourteenth,
eighteen hundred and Iifty-four; ’ “An act Sup lementary to
the Act Regulating the Mode of Procedure in ivil Cases in
the Courts of the Territory of Utah,” approved December
thirtieth, eighteen hundred and nfty-two, approved February
nineteenth, eighteen hundred and sixt ~nine; are hereby reealed; and so much of “An Act Provi  for A peals to the
gupreme Court,” approved January eighteent , eighteen
hundred and sixt -one, and “An Act Governing Writs of
Attachments and arnishments,” ap roved January twentieth,
e' hteen hundred and sixty-live; and) “An Act Reglulating the
ode of Procedure in Ci ' Cases in the Courts of t e Temtory
of Utah,” ap roved December thirtieth, ei hteen hundred and
nfty-two; an “An Act Declaring Certain T in s to be roperty
Specifying the Owner Thereof, Defining the ode of covering its Possession, and Providing for Redress of any Grievance
that may arise from Proceedings under this Act, ’ approved
January twentieth, eighteen hundred and sixty; and “An Act
authorizing the Issuing of Executions against Judgment
Debtors, Non-Residents of the County,” approved January
nineteenth, eiohteen hundred and sixty-four; and “An Act in
Relation to t e Judiciary,” approved January nineteenth,
eighteen hundred and fifty-five; and “An Act in Relation to
Justices of the Peace,” approved February fourth, eighteen
hundred and fifty-two; “An Act Authorizing the Governor to
A point Commissioners 'to take Acknowledgement of Deeds or
ot er Contracts, and Aflidavits and Depositions in the States
and other Territories of the United States;” approved Februar
eighteenth, eighteen hundred and sixty-eight, as confiict with
the provisions of this Act, are hereby repealed.


