1853 Proposed Civil Procedure Code for Utah Territory

"The every day increasing necessity for a law regulating procedure in civil cases induced them to devote the earliest and greatest portion of their labor to that important subject. It has been thought prudent to defer for the present the preparation of an index.
Your committee regret that the want of sufficient time and unavailable pressure of other business have prevented them from reporting upon the subjects of a Chancery and a Criminal practice as well as a revision of the criminal law and many other subjects which the public interest demands."

Chapter 1: Organization of the Legislative Assembly

§ 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative assembly of the Territory of Utah; That on the day of the meeting of the Legislative Assembly, some person claiming to be elected a member, shall call the house to which he belongs to order, and the persons present claiming seats in that house as members, shall elect a clerk for the time being.

§ 2. The clerks of each House shall file the certificates presented by members, each for his own House and make a roll of the members who thus appear to be elected and the persons thus appearing to be elected members, shall proceed to elect such other officers as may be required for the time being. 

§ 3. When the houses are temporarily organized, they shall elect a committee of five on the part of the House and three on the part of the Council, by ballot, which committees shall examine and report upon the credentials of those claiming to be elected members of their respective houses, and when such report is made, those reported as elected, shall proceed to the permanent organization of their respective houses, and each house shall be the sole judge of the election returns and qualifications of its own members.

§ 4. The said officers shall be elected viva voce by the members of each house respectively at such time after the meeting of said house as the members thereof shall see proper. 

§ 5. Any officer duly authorized to administer an oath by the laws of the Territory is hereby authorized to administer the oath of office to the members and officers of the Legislative Assembly.

§ 5. In case the right of any person to a seat in either house of the Legislative Assembly shall be contested, the right of such person to a seat as aforesaid, shall be determined by the house in which he claims such a seat as a member.

§ 7. Any member may administer oaths in the house in which he is a member, and while acting on a committee, may administer oaths on the business of such committee. 

§ 8. No member of the Legislative Assembly shall be questioned in any other place, for any speech or words spoken in debate in either house. 

§ 9. No member of the Council or House of Representatives shall be subject to civil arrest, or be held to answer any civil process, while in attendance of the Legislature, or when going to or returning from the same.

§ 10. The officers of the council shall consist of a President, a member of said body, a Secretary and assistant Secretary, a Sergeant-at-arms, who shall also perform the duties of doorkeeper, a messenger, a fireman or foreman, and a chaplain. 

§ 11. The officers of the House of Representatives shall consist of a speaker (a member of said body), a chief clerk, an assistant clerk, a sergeant-at-arms (who shall also perform the office of doorkeeper) a messenger, a fireman or foreman, and a chaplain.

§ 12. It shall be the duty of the secretary of the council and chief clerk of the house of representatives to keep correct journals of the proceedings of their respective houses, to have the custody of all records, accounts, and other papers, committed to them; and at the close of each session of the Legislative Assembly, shall deposit for safe keeping in the office of the Secretary of the Territory all books, bills, documents, resolutions, and papers in the possession of the Legislative Assembly, correctly folded, filed, and classified, and generally to perform such duties as shall be assigned them by their respective houses. 

§ 13. The compensation prescribed by law for the officers of the council, shall be certified by the president thereof, and attested by the secretary, and the compensation that may be due to the officers of the house of representatives shall be certified by the speaker thereof, and attested by the chief clerk, which said certificate when made out as aforesaid, shall be sufficient evidence to the secretary of the territory of each person's claim.

§ 14. It shall be competent at any time during a session of the Legislative Assembly for either house by a vote of two thirds of the members present, to remove from office any of the officers provided for in this chapter, but in case of the removal of any officer by either house, his place shall be supplied by an election viva voce, and in all elections under the provisions of this chapter for officers in either house of the Legislative Assembly, it shall require a majority of all the votes cast to determine a choice. 

§ 15. Any person who shall knowingly arrest a member in violation of his privileged; or assault or threaten to assault a member, or threaten to do him any harm in person or property, for anything, said or done in either house as a member thereof; or attempt by menace or other corrupt means to control or influence a member in giving his vote, or to prevent his giving it; or of disorderly or contemptuous conduct, tending to disturb its proceedings; or of refusing to attend to be sworn, or to be examined as a witness before either House or a committee, when duly summoned; of assaulting or preventing any person going to either house or its committee by order thereof knowing the same; of knowingly injuring any officer of either house in the discharge of his duties as such; shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not exceeding five hundred dollars and imprisonment not exceeding six months before any court having jurisdiction.

§ 16. Either house may, by resolution, request the opinion of the Supreme Court, or any one or more of the judges thereof upon a given subject, and it shall be the duty of such Court or judges when so requested respectively to give such opinion in writing. 

§ 17. All acts and resolutions of the Legislative Assembly shall take effect and be in force on the twentieth day next after the date of publication, in pursuance of law, or in at least one newspaper printed in this territory, unless a different time is specified by such act or resolution, and resolutions are equally valid with acts. 

Chapter 2. Construction of Statutes.

§ 18. In the construction of the statutes of this territory, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Legislative Assembly, or repugnant to the context of the statute.

§ 19. The repeal of a statute does not revive one previously repealed by it, nor affect any rights, duties, or penalties which have arisen under it. 

§ 20. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the context, and the approved usage of the language: but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning, in law, shall be construed according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.

§ 21. Words importing the singular number only, may be extended to several persons or things, and words importing the plural number only, may be applied to one person or thing, and words importing the masculine gender only, may be extended to the feminine and neuter genders.

§ 22. Words giving a joint authority to three or more public officers or other persons, shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of them unless it be otherwise expressed in the act giving the authority.

§ 23. The words "highway" and "road" include public bridges, and may be held equivalent to the words "county way" "county road" "common road" and "state road."

§ 24. The words "insane person" include idiots, persons not of sound mind, lunatics and distracted persons.

§ 25. The word "issue" as applied to the descent of estates, includes all the lawful lineal descendants of the ancestor.

§ 26. The word "land" and the phrases "real estate" and "real property" include lands, tenements, and hereditaments, and all rights thereto, and interests therein, equitable as well as legal.

§ 27. The words "personal property" include money, goods, chattels, evidences of debt and things "in action."

§ 28. The word "property" includes personal and real property.

§ 29. The word "month" means a calendar month, unless otherwise expressed, and the word "year" alone, and also the abbreviations "A.D." is equivalent to the expression "Year of Our Lord." 

§ 30. The word "oath" includes "affirmation" in all cases where an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in like cases the word "swear" includes the word "affirm."

§ 31. The word "person" maybe extended to bodies corporate and politic.

§ 32. Where the seal of the court of public office or officer may be required by law to be affixed to any paper, the word "seal" shall include an impression of such seal upon the paper alone as well as upon wax or a wafer affixed thereto. 

§ 33. The word "state" when applied to the different parts of the United States, includes the District of Columbia and the Territories, and the words "United States" may include the said District and Territories. 

§ 34. The word "town" may mean city or village.

§ 35. The word "will" includes codicils.

§ 36. The words "written" and "in writing" may include printing, engraving, lithographing, and any other mode of representing words and letters, excepting those cases where the written signature or the mark of any person is required by law. 

§ 37. The word "deed" is applied to an instrument conveying land, but does not imply a sealed instrument; and the words "bond" and "indenture" do not necessarily imply a seal, but in other respects mean the same kind of instrument as heretofore; and the word "undertaking" means a promise or security in any form where required by law.

§ 38. The term "executor" includes an administrator, where the subject matter applies to an administrator.

§ 39. The Roman numerals and Arabic figures are to be taken as part of the English language. 

Chapter 3. District Courts.

§ 40. The jurisdiction of the district courts shall be co-extensive with the limits of their respective districts and no farther; unless otherwise expressly provided by statute; provided, that when district courts are held in the several counties and in the district, the jurisdiction of said courts in such case shall be within the limits of such county and no other.

§ 41. When the district court is held for the whole district the sheriff of the county in which the court is held, shall have authority to execute the process of said court any where within the district, and in all cases where the proceedings are in the district court, the term "sheriff" shall be taken to mean any other officer who by the laws of the territory is or may be authorized to perform like duties. 

§ 42. The district courts in their respective districts, shall have original jurisdiction in all civil cases arising within their respective districts where the amount claimed exceeds one hundred dollars; they shall also respectively have jurisdiction of all crimes and misdemeanors that may be committed within their respective districts, when not otherwise prohibited by statute. They shall also have a general supervision over all inferior courts within their respective districts, to prevent and correct abuses, when no other remedy is provided.

§ 43. The clerk of each district court shall keep a record of the proceedings of the court, under the direction of the judge. He shall, from time to time, read over all entries therein in open court, which when correct, shall be signed by the judge. Entries made in vacation, shall be read and approved at the next term of the court, and may be amended or any entries therein expunged at any time during the term of the court, at which it is made or before it is signed by the judge as aforesaid; but entries made, approved and signed by the judge, cannot be altered only to correct an evident mistake.  

§ 44. The judges of the district courts, respectively, shall report to the legislature at each regular session thereof, all omissions, discrepancies, or other evidence imperfections of the law which have fallen under their observations.

§ 45. The judges of the district courts may report their own decisions, or they may appoint a reporter, who shall hold his office at the pleasure of the court, and all decisions or opinions, and all questions reviewed on appeal, as well as motions, collateral questions, and points of practice, as they may think of sufficient importance, shall be reduced to writing and filed with the clerk of the court. 

§ 46. Each of the clerks must keep a complete record of all proceedings of the court, with an index to the same, and generally they must perform all the other duties ordinarily pertaining to their office. 

§ 47. The said courts may adopt all such rules as they may deem expedient, consistent with the law, the prime object of which shall be to carry out the purpose of the statutes, and to subserve the ends of justice, dispensing with all needless forms, and disregarding and abridging all technical pleadings with a view to the attainment of justice; all technical forms of actions and pleadings are hereby abolished. 

Chapter 4. Civil Actions.

§ 48. In all actions in the courts in this territory, the party complaining shall be known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

§ 49. Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section fifty-one of this chapter.

§ 50. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set off or other defense existing at the time of, or before the notice of the assignment; but this section shall not apply to a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange transferred in good faith, and upon good consideration before due.

§ 51. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue without joining with him the person for whose benefit the action is prosecuted. A person with whom, or in whose name a contract is made for the benefit of another, is a trustee of an express trust within the meaning of this section. 

§ 52. When a married woman is a party, her husband shall be joined with her except that:
1. When the action concerns her separate property, she may sue or be sued alone.
2. When the action is between herself and her husband, she may sue or be sued alone.

§ 53. When an infant is a party, he shall apply by guardian, who may be appointed by the court in which the action is brought, or by a judge thereof. 

§ 54. The guardian shall be appointed as follows:
1. When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years; or if under that age, upon the application of a relation or friend of the infant.
2. When the infant is defendant, upon an application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and if he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then the application of any other party to the action, or of a relative or friend of the infant.  

§ 55. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his family, the mother, may prosecute for the seduction of a daughter and a guardian for the seduction of a ward, though the daughter or ward be not living with or in the service of the plaintifff, at the time of the seduction or afterwards and there be no loss of service. 

§ 56. An unmarried female over eighteen years of age, may prosecute as plaintifff in an action for her own seduction and recover therein such damages as may be assessed in her favour; but the prosecution of an action to judgment by the father, mother, or guardian, as prescribed in the preceding section, shall be a bar to an action by such unmarried female.

§ 57. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, may all or any of them be included in the same action at the option of the plaintifff. 

§ 58. No action shall abate by the death, marriage, or other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interests therein, if the cause of action survive or continue. In case of the death, marriage, or other disability of a party, the court may, on motion, allow the action to be continued by or against his representatives or successors in interest.

Chapter 5. Of the place of trial.

§ 59. Actions for the following causes shall be tried in the county or district as the case may be, in which the subject of the action or some part thereof is situated, subject to the power of the court to change the place of trial in the cases provided by statute:
1. For the recovery of real property or of an estate or interest therein, or for the determination in any form of such right or interest and for injuries to real property.
2. For the partition of real property.
3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property.
4. For the recovery of any personal property distrained for any cause.

§ 60. Actions for the following causes shall be tried in the county or district as the case may be where the cause or some part thereof arose, subject to the like power of the court to change the place of trial in the cases provided by statute. 
1. For the recovery of any penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute.
2. Against a public officer, or person especially appointed to execute his duties for an act done by him in virtue of his office; or against a person who, by his command, or in his aid, shall do anything touching the duties of such officer.

§ 61. In all other cases the action shall be tried in the county, or district as the case may be in which the defendants or either of them reside, or if none of the parties reside in this territory, the same may be tried in any county or district which the plaintifff may designate in his complaint, subject however, to the power of the court to change the place of trial, as provided by statute. 

§ 62. A change of venue or the place of trial may be had on the application of either of the parties in the following cases.
1. When the county in which the action is pending shall be a party thereto, or interested therein.
2. When the judge shall be directly interested in the action or connected by blood or affinity with any person so interested, nearer than the fourth degree.
3. When the party applying for such change shall make and file an affidavit stating that the judge or the inhabitants of the county are so prejudiced against him that he cannot expect an impartial trial and also that the application for the change of venue is not made for the purpose of delay. 

§ 63. An application for a change of venue may be made either to the court in term time or to a judge thereof in a vacation, and the change shall be to the most convenient county or district in which there shall be no exception of the character of those above enumerated. But neither party shall be entitled to more than one change of venue, except for causes not in existence when the first change may have taken place. 

§ 64. If the change of venue be ordered by the judge in vacation, he shall immediately transmit to the clerk of the court where the cause is pending the affidavit if any and the order for the change, who shall file the same in his office. 

§ 65. In such cases as well as where the order shall be made in open court, the clerk shall forthwith transmit to the clerk of the proper court, a transcript of the record and proceedings in such cause, with all original papers filed therein, having first made out and filed in his own office authenticated copies of all such original papers. 

§ 66. The costs of such change of venue shall be paid by the applicant therefore, and not taxed as a part fo the costs of the case, and the clerk may require the payment of such costs before the transcript and papers shall be transmitted as aforesaid.

§ 67. Upon filing such transcript and papers in the office of the clerk of the court to which the same were certified, the cause shall be docketed and the same proceedings had as though it had originated in that court. 

Chapter 6. Of the manner of commencing actions.

§ 68. Actions in Law in the several courts of this territory shall be commenced by filing a complaint with the clerk of the court and issuing of a summons thereon.

§ 69. The clerk shall endorse on the complaint the day, month and year that the same was filed; and as any time thereafter, the plaintifff may have a summons issued, which shall be directed to the sheriff and shall be signed by the clerk, and issued under the seal of the court, and shall be made returnable on the second day of the next term of court.

§ 70. The summons shall require the defendant to appear and answer the complaint, or that judgment by default will be taken against him:
1. If he be served within the county in which the action is brought, ten days before the term of the court; or if in any other county, thirty days before the court he shall appear and answer the complaint on the return day of the summons.
2. If he be served less than ten days within the county in which the action is brought or less than thirty days in any other county, he shall appear and answer the complaint on the first day of the term next after the return day of the summons. 

§ 71. The summons shall be served by the sheriff of the county in which the court is held, or by his deputy, or by a person specially appointed. The summons shall be returned to the office of the clerk from which it issued, with the certificate of the sheriff or his deputy or the affidavit of the person appointed of its service and of the service of a copy of the complaint.

§ 72. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy thereof, together with a copy of the complaint as follows:
1. If the action be against a corporation, to the president or other head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof.
2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such minor personally, and also to his father, mother, or guardian, or if there be none within this territory, then to any person having the care or control of such minor, or with whom he resides, or in whose service he is employed.
3. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and for whom a guardian has been appointed, to such guardian and to the defendant personally.
4. In all other cases, to the defendant personally, or, if he be not found, to some white person of the family above the age of fourteen years, at the dwelling house or usual place of abode of the defendant.

§ 73. When the service of the summons cannot be made as prescribed in the last preceding section, and the defendant, after due diligence cannot be found within the territory, and when that fact appears by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the court, or judge thereof, and it in like manner appears that a cause of action exists against the defendant or that he is a proper party to an action relating to real property in this territory, such court or judge may grant an order that the service be made by publication of a summons in either of the following cases:
1. When the defendant is a foreign corporation, and has property within the territory, or the cause of action arise therein;
2. When the defendant, being a resident of this territory, has departed therefrom with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of a summons, or shall keep himself concealed therein with like intent;
3. When the defendant is not a resident of the territory, but has property therein. 

§ 74. The order shall direct the publication to be made in a newspaper published in the county where the action is brought, and if there be no newspaper published in the county, then in a newspaper to be designated as most likely to give notice to the person to be served, and for such length of time as may be deemed reasonable, not less than once a week for six weeks; or in case the defendant be absent from, or residing out of this territory, not less than once a week for three months. In case of publication, the court of judge shall also direct a copy of the summons and complaint to be forthwith deposited in the post office, directed to the defendant at his place of residence, unless it shall appear that such residence is not known to the party making the application. When publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons and complaint, out of the territory, shall be equivalent to publication and deposit in the post office. In either case, the service of the summons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of the time prescribed in the order for publication.

§ 75. The defendant against whom publication is ordered, or his representatives, on application at any time before judgment, shall be allowed to defend the action and may in like manner be allowed to defend after judgment and within three years after the rendition of such judgment, on such terms as may be just; and if the defense be successful and the judgment or any part thereof has been collected or otherwise enforced, such restitution may thereupon be compelled as the court may direct. 

§ 76. Whenever it shall appear by the return of the sheriff, his deputy, or the person appointed to serve a summons, that he has not served it upon the defendants as prescribed in the seventy-second section, the clerk shall at the request of the plaintifff, issue another summons and so on, until service be had, or the plaintifff may proceed by publication in the manner before stated, at his election.

§ 77. When the action is against two or more defendants, and the summons is served on one or more, but not on all of them, the plaintifff may proceed as follows:
1. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted upon a contract, he may proceed against the defendants served, unless the court otherwise direct; and if he recover judgment, it may be entered against all the defendants thus jointed indebted, so far only as that it may be enforced against the joint property of all and the separate property of the defendants served; or
2. If the action be against the defendants severally liable, he may proceed against the defendants served, in the same manner as it they were the only defendants.

§ 78. Proof of the service of the summons and complaint shall be as follows:
1. If served by the sheriff or his deputy, the certificate of such sheriff or deputy; or,
2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or
3. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer or his foreman, or his principal clerk, showing the same; and an affidavit of a deposit of a copy of the summons and complaint in the post office, if the same shall have been deposited; or
4. The written admission of the defendant.
In case of service otherwise than by publication, the certificate, affidavit, or admission must state the time and place of service.

§ 79. From the time of the service of the summons and complaint, the court shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all subsequent proceedings. A voluntary appearance of the defendant shall be equivalent to personal service of the summons upon him. 

Chapter 7. Of the pleadings.

§ 80. Hereafter the forms of pleading, and the rules by which the sufficiency of the pleadings is to be determined, shall be those prescribed by statute.

§ 81. The only pleadings on the part of the plaintifff shall be:
1. The complaint;
2. The demurrer; or
3. The reply.
And on the party of the defendant:
1. The demurrer; or 
2. The answer. 

Chapter 8. The complaint.

§ 82. The first pleading on the part of the plaintifff shall be the complaint.

§ 83. The complaint shall contain:
1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court and the name of the county or district in which the action is brought, and the name of the parties to the action, plaintifff and defendant.
2. A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, without unnecessary repetition.
3. A demand of the relief which the plaintifff claims. If the recovery of money or damages be demanded the amount thereof shall be stated.

Chapter 9. The demurrer.

§ 84. The defendant may demur to the complaint within the time required in the summons to answer, when it appears upon the face thereof, either;
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or the subject of the action; or
2. That the plaintifff has no legal capacity to sue; or
3. That there is another action pending, between the same parties for the same cause; or 
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant; or
5. That several causes of action have been improperly united; or
6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 

§ 85. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds of objection to the complaint; unless it does so it may be disregarded. It may be taken to the whole complaint, or to any of the alleged causes of action stated therein.

§ 86. If the complaint be amended, a copy thereof shall be served on the defendant or his attorney of record, and the defendant shall answer the same within such time as may be prescribed by the court, and if he omit to do so, the plaintifff may proceed to obtain judgment as in other causes of failure to answer.

§ 87. When any of the matters enumerated in section eighty-four do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be taken by answer. 

§ 88. If no objection be taken, either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and the objection that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 

Chapter 10. The answer.

§ 89.  The answer of the defendant shall contain:
1. The specific denial of each material allegation of the complaint controverted by the defendant.
2. A plain and concise statement of any new matter constituting a defense or set-off without unnecessary repetition.

§ 90. The defendant may set forth by answer as many defenses as he may have. They shall each be separately stated, and refer to the causes of action, which they are intended to answer, in any manner by which they may be intelligibly distinguished. 

§ 91. The defendant may demur to one or more of several causes of actions states in the complaint, and answer the residue.

§ 92. Sham and irrelevant answers and defenses shall be stricken out on motion and upon such terms as the court may, in its discretion, impose. 

Chapter 11. The reply.

§ 93. When the answer contains new matter constituting a defense or set-off, the plaintifff may, within one day or such further time as the court may allow, reply to such new matter, denying specifically each allegation controverted by him, and he may allege in a plain and concise manner, without unnecessary repetition, any new matter, not inconsistent with the complaint constituting a defense to such new matter in the answer; or he may demur to the same for insufficiency, stating in his demurrer the grounds thereof; and the plaintifff may demur to one or more of several defenses or set-offs in the answer and reply to the residue.

§ 94. If the answer contains a statement of new matter constituting a defense, and the plaintifff fails to reply or demur thereto, within the time prescribed, the defendant may move in court for such judgment as he shall be entitled to upon such statement. 

Chapter 12. General rules of pleading.

§ 95. Every pleading except a demurrer shall be subscribed and verified under oath by the party or his attorney.

§ 96. The verification may be omitted when an admission of the truth of the allegation might subject the party to prosecution for felony. And no pleading shall be used in a criminal prosecution against the party, as proof of a fact admitted or alleged in such pleading.

§ 97. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading a copy of the instruments of writing, or the items of an account therein alleged; but, he shall file a verified copy thereof with such pleading, and serve the same on the adverse party. He shall within ten days after a demand thereof in writing, deliver the adverse party a copy of such instrument of writing, or the items of an account, verified by his own oath, or that of his agent or attorney, to the effect that he believes it to be true; or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The court, or judge thereof may order a further account, when the one delivered is defective and the court may, in all cases, order a bill of particulars of the claim of either party to be furnished. 

§ 98. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with a view of substantial justice between the parties. 

§ 99. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading, it may be stricken out on motion of any person aggrieved thereby; and when the allegations of pleading are so indefinite or uncertain that the precise nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the court may require the pleading to be made definite and certain by amendment. 

§ 100. In pleading a judgment or other determination of a court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may be stated to have been duly given or made. If such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish on the trial, the facts conferring jurisdiction.

§ 101. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such performance, but it may be stated generally, that the party duly performed all the conditions on his part; and if such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish, on the trial, the facts showing such performance. 

§ 102. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title and the date of its approval, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof.

§ 103. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts, for the purpose of showing the application to the plaintifff of the defamatory matter out of which the cause of action arose; but it shall be sufficient to state generally that the same was published, or spoken concerning the plaintifff, and if such allegation be controverted, the plaintifff shall be bound to establish on trial that it was so published or spoken.

§ 104. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant may, in his answer allege both the truth of the matter charged as defamatory and any mitigating circumstances to reduce the amount of damages; and whether he prove the justification or not, he may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.

§ 105. In an action to recover the possession of property distrained doing damage, an answer that the defendant or person by whose command he acted, was lawfully possessed of the real property upon which the distress was made, and that the property distrained was at the time doing damage thereon, shall be good without setting forth the title tot such real property. 

§ 106. The plaintifff may unite several causes of action in the same complaint, when they all arise out of:
1. Contract, express or implied; or
2. Injuries, with or without force, to the person; or
3. Injuries, with or without force, to property; or
4. Injuries to character; or
5. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages for withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the same.
6. Claims to recover personal property, with or without damages for the withholding thereof; or
7. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by operation of laws.
But the causes of action so united must all belong to one only of these classes and must effect all the parties to the action and not require different places of trial and must be separately stated. 

§ 107. Every material allegation of the complaint, not specifically controverted by the answer, and every material allegation of new matter in the answer, not specifically controverted by the reply, shall, for the purposes of the action, be taken as true; but the allegation of new matter in a reply shall not, in any respect, conclude the defendant, who may, on the trial, countervail it by proofs, either in direct denial, or by way of avoidance.

§ 108. A material allegation in a pleading is one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the pleading without leaving it insufficient.

Chapter 13. Amendments.

§ 109. Any pleading may be once amended by the party, of course, without costs and without prejudice to the proceedings already had at any time before the case is called for trial. In such case a copy of the amended pleading shall be served on the adverse party. 

§ 110. After the decision upon a demurrer if it be overruled, the party shall be allowed to plead over at such time as the court may direct. If the demurrer be sustained, either party may amend any pleading demurred to, upon such terms as may be just, and he shall serve a copy of the same, as amended, on the adverse party, within such time as may be prescribed by the court.

§ 111. The court may in its discretion and upon such terms as may be just, allow an answer or reply to be made after the time limited thereforee, or by an order enlarge such time.

§ 112. When a plaintifff shall be ignorant of the name of a defendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name; and when his name shall be discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.

§ 113. The plaintifff and defendant respectively before joining issue, may be allowed on motion to make a supplemental complaint, answer, or reply, alleging facts material to the case, occurring after the former complaint, answer, or reply. 

Chapter 14. Of issues.

§ 114. Issues arise upon pleadings when a fact or conclusion of law is maintained by the one party and controverted by the other. They are of two kinds:
1. Of law;
2. Of fact.

§ 115. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint, answer, or reply, or to some part thereof. 

§ 116. An issue of fact arises:
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted by the answer; or
2. Upon new matter, or a set-off controverted by the reply; or
3. Upon new matter in the reply.

§ 117. Issues, both of law and of fact, may arise upon different parts of the pleadings in the same action. In such cases the issues of law shall be first tried. 

§ 118. An issue of law shall be tried by the court. An issue of fact shall be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial be waived.

§ 119. A motion to postpone a trial on the ground of the absence of evidence, except by the consent of the parties, shall only be made upon affidavit showing the materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained, and what diligence has been used to procure it, and also the name and residence of the witness or witnesses. The court may also require the moving party to state, upon affidavit, the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if the adverse party thereupon admit that such evidence would be given, and that it be considered as actually given on the trial, or offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall not be postponed. 

Chapter 15. Trial by jury.

§ 120. When the action is called for trial, the clerk shall prepare separate ballots, containing the names of the jurors summoned, who have appeared and not been excused, and deposit them in a box. He shall then draw from the box twelve names, and the persons whose names are drawn shall constitute the jury. If the ballots become exhausted before the jury is complete, or if from any cause a juror or jurors be excused or discharged, the sheriff under the direction of the court, shall summon from the bystanders or citizens of the county or district so many qualified persons as may be necessary to complete the jury. The jury shall consist of twelve persons, unless the parties consent to a less number. The parties may consent to any number not less than three, and such consent shall be entered by the clerk on the minutes of the trial.

§ 121. Either party may challenge the jurors, but when there are several parties on either side, they shall join in a challenge before it can be made. The challenge shall be to individual jurors, and shall be preemptory or for cause. Each party shall be entitled to four preemptory challenges. 

§ 122. Challenge for cause may be taken on one or more of the following grounds:
1. A want of any of the qualifications provided by statute to render a person competent as a juror;
2. Standing in relation of guardian and ward, employer and clerk, or principal and agent to either party; or being a member of the family of either party; or a partner in business with either party; or being security on any undertaking or obligation for either party;
4. Having served as a juror, or been a witness, on a previous trial between the same parties for the same cause of action;
5. Interest on the part of the juror in the event of the action;
6. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief as to the merits of the action.
7. The existence of a state of mind in the juror, evincing enmity to either party.

§ 123. Challenges for cause shall be tried by the court. The juror challenged and any other person as a witness may be examined on the trial of the challenge. 

§ 124. As soon as the jury is completed, an oath or affirmation shall be administered to the jurors in substance, that they, each of them, will well and truly try the matter in issue between the plaintifff and the defendant, and a true verdict give according to the evidence.

§ 125. When the jury is completed and sworn, the ballots containing the names of the jurors sworn, shall be laid aside till the jury so sworn is discharged, and then they shall be returned to the box; and every ballot drawn containing the name of a juror not to sworn, shall be returned to the box as soon as the jury is completed.

§ 126. The jurors may be kept together in charge of a proper officer, or may in the discretion of the court, at any time before the submission of a cause to the jury, be permitted to separate, in either case they may be admonished by the court that they shall not converse with any other person, or among themselves, on any subject connected with the trial, or to express any opinion thereon, until the case is finally submitted to them.

§ 127. If after the empaneling of the jury, and before a verdict, a juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform his duties, the court may order him to be discharged. In that case, unless the parties agree to proceed with the other jurors, a new juror may be sworn, and the trial begin anew; or the jury may be discharged and a new jury then or afterwards empaneled. 

§ 128. After hearing the charge of the court, which shall be delivered in writing, the jury may either decide in the court room, or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they shall be kept together in a room provided for them, or some other convenient place under the charge of one or more officers, until they agree upon their verdict, or are discharged. The officer shall, to the utmost of his ability, keep the jury together, separate from other persons; he shall not suffer any communication to be made to them, or make any himself, unless by order of the court, except to ask them if they have agreed upon their verdict; and he shall not, before the verdict is rendered, communicate to any person, the state of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon. 

§ 129. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury may take with them the pleadings in the cause, and all papers (except depositions) which have been received as evidence on the trial, or copies of such parts of public records, or private documents given in evidence, as ought not in the opinion of the court, be taken from the person having them in possession. They may also take with them notes of the testimony or other proceedings on the trial, taken by themselves or any of them; but none taken by any other person, except by consent of the parties. 

§ 130. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there be a disagreement between them, as to any part of the testimony, or if they desire to be informed of any point of law arising in the cause, they may require the officer to conduct them into court. Upon their being brought into court, the information required shall be given in the presence of, or after notice to the parties or counsel. 

Chapter 16. Of the verdict. 

§ 131. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general verdict is that by which the jury pronounce generally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintifff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment to the court. 

§ 132. In an action for the recovery of personal property, if the property has not been delivered to the plaintifff, or the defendant, by his answer, claim a return thereof, the jury shall assess the value of the property, if there verdict be in favor of the plaintifff, or if they find in favor of the defendant, and that he is entitled to a return thereof, and may at the same time assess the damages, if any are claimed in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing party has sustained, by reason of the detention or taking and withholding such property.

§ 133. In every action for the recovery of money only, or real property, the jury in their discretion may render a general or special verdict. In all other cases, the court may direct the jury to find a special verdict in writing upon all or any of the issues; and in all cases may instruct them, if they render a general verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact, to be state in writing, and may direct a written finding thereon. The special verdict or finding, shall be filed with the clerk and entered upon the minutes.

§ 134. When a special finding of facts shall be inconsistent with the general verdict, the former shall control the latter, and the court shall give judgment accordingly.

§ 135. When a verdict is found for the plaintifff in an action for the recovery of money, or for the defendant when a set-off for the recovery of money is established beyond the amount of the plaintifff's claim as established by the jury shall also assess the amount of recovery.

§ 136. If the verdict be informal, it may be corrected by the jury under the advice of the court, or the jury may be again sent out. When rendered, the verdict shall be entered by the clerk on his minutes. 

Chapter 17. Trial by the court.

§ 137. Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to the issue of fact, in actions, on contract, and with the assent of the court in other actions, in the manner following:
1. By failing to appear at the trial;
2. By written consent, in person, or by attorney, filed with the clerk;
3. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.

§ 138. Upon the trial of an issue of fact by the court, its decision shall be given in writing and filed with the clerk within ten days after the court at which the trial took place. In giving the decision, the facts found and the conclusions of law, shall be separately stated. Judgment upon the decision shall be entered accordingly. 

Chapter 18. Of exceptions.

§ 139. An exception is an objection taken at the trial to a decision upon matter of law, whether such trial be by the jury or the court, and whether the decision be made during the formation of a jury, or in the admission of evidence, or in the charge to the jury, or at any other time from the calling of the action for trial, to the rendering of the verdict or decision. 

§ 140. The point of the exception shall be particularly stated in writing and signed by the judge, or entered  on the minutes of the court, and at the time, or afterwards, be corrected until made conformable to the truth.

§ 141. No particular form of exception shall be required. The objection shall be stated, with so much of the evidence or other matter as in necessary to explain it, but no more. 

§ 142. When a cause has been tried by the court and the decision is not made immediately after the closing of the testimony, the decision shall be deemed excepted to on a motion for a new trial, or on appeal, without any special notice that an exception is taken thereto.

Chapter 19. Of new trial.

§ 143. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of fact in the same court, after a trial and decision of a jury or court.

§ 144. The former verdict or other decision may be vacated and a new trial granted on the application of the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes, materially affecting the substantial rights of such party:
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse party, or any order of the court, or abuse of discretion, by which such party was prevented from having a fair trial;
2. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party;
3. Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against;
4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the application, which he could not with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial;
5. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the influence of passion or prejudice;
6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, or that it is against law;
7. Error in law occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the party making application. 

§ 145. When the application is made for a cause mentioned in the first, second, third, and fourth subdivisions of the law section, it shall be upon affidavit, setting forth the facts upon which such application is based, which affidavit shall be filed with the clerk.

§ 146. If upon the giving of a verdict or other decision, either party shall move for a new trial, the reasons for the same, and the affidavits, if any in support thereof, shall be filed with the clerk and the motion shall be heard when the parties shall have had a reasonable time to prepare thereforee.

§ 147. If the motion be supported by affidavits, counter affidavits may be offered by the adverse party; and if the cause be newly discovered evidence, the affidavits of any witness or witnesses showing what their testimony will be, shall be produced, or good reason shown for their non-production; and in the consideration of any motion for a new trial, reference may be had to any proceedings in the case, prior to the verdict, or other decision sought to be set aside. 

Chapter 20. Of general provisions.

§ 148. Any party may, when the evidence is closed, submit in distinct and concise propositions the conclusions of fact which he claims to be established, or the conclusions of law which he desires to be adjudged, or both. They may be written and handed to the court, or at the option of the court, oral and entered in the judges minutes; but in either case, they shall be entered with any exceptions that may be taken by either party.

§ 149. The provisions of this act respecting trials, by jury, shall be applied so far as they are in their nature applicable to trials by the court.

Chapter 21. Judgment in general. 

§ 150. A judgment is the final determination of the rights of the parties in the action.

§ 151. Judgment may be given for or against one or more of several plaintifffs or defendants.

§ 152. An action may be dismissed, or a judgment of nonsuit entered in the following cases:
1. By the plaintifff himself, at any time before trial, unless new matter or set-off be interposed as a defense. If the property of the defendant has been attached by the plaintifff the undertaking shall thereupon be delivered by the clerk to the defendant, who may have his action thereon;
2. By either party upon the written consent of the other;
3. By the court when the plaintifff fails to appear on trial, and the defendant appears and asks for the dismissal; 
4. By the court, upon motion of the defendants, when upon the trial and before the final dismission of the case, the plaintifff abandons it;
5. By the court, upon motion of the defendant when upon trial the plaintifff fails to prove a sufficient cause for a jury.

§ 153. In every case, other than those mentioned in the last section, the judgment shall be rendered on its merits. 

Chapter 22. Judgment upon failure to answer.

§ 154. Judgment may be had on proof of the service of the summons and complaint, and if the defendant fail to answer the complaint as follows:
1. In an action arising upon contract for the recovery of money only, if no answer be filed with the clerk of the court within the time prescribed by law, or such further time as may have been granted, the court, upon the application of the plaintifff, shall direct the clerk to enter the default of the defendant and immediately thereafter enter judgment for the amount sued for, including the costs against the defendant;
2. In other actions, if not answer be filed with the clerk within the time prescribed by law, or such further time as may have been granted, the court shall, in like manner, direct the clerk to enter the default of the defendant and thereafter the plaintifff may apply, at that or any subsequent term of the court, for the relief demanded in the complaint. And when action is for the recovery of damages only, or of specific, real or personal property, with damaged for the holding thereof, the damages shall be assessed by a jury, upon proof of the demand mentioned in the complaint;
3. In actions when the service of the summons shall be by publication, the plaintifff may in like manner apply for judgment, and the court shall thereupon require proof to be made of the demand mentioned in the complaint; and if the defendant be not a resident of the territory, shall require the plaintifff or his agent to be examined on oath respecting any payments that have been made to the plaintifff, or to any one for his use on account of such demand, and may render judgment for the demand which he is entitled to recover. Before rendering judgment, the court shall require the plaintifff to give satisfactory security, to abide the order of the court, touching the restitution of any property collected or received under the judgments, in case the defendant or his representative shall be admitted to defend the action, and succeed in the defense; 
4. The court may, in its discretion, before final judgment, set aside any default, upon affidavit, showing good and sufficient cause, and upon such terms as may be deemed reasonable.

Chapter 23. Judgment by confession.

§ 155. Any defendant in an action pending in the courts of this territory may personally appear before the clerk of such court, either in term time or in vacation, and, with the assent of the plaintifff, or his attorney, confess judgment for the amount admitted to be due, whereupon judgment shall be entered accordingly by the clerk.

§ 156. A judgment by confession may be entered without action, in term time or in vacation, either for money due, or to become due, or to secure any person against contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both in the manner prescribed in the next two sections.

§ 157. A statement in writing shall be made, signed by the defendant, and verified by his oath, to the following effect:
1. It shall authorize the entry of judgment for a particular sum;
2. If it be for money due, or to become due, it shall state concisely the facts out of which it arose, and shall show that the sum confessed in justly due, or to become due;
3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintifff against a contingent liability, it shall state concisely the facts constituting the liability, and shall show that the sum confessed thereforee does not exceed the same.

§ 158. The statement shall be filed with the clerk of the court in which the judgment is to be entered, who shall enter judgment for the amount confessed, with costs.

§ 159. Executions may be issued in judgments by confession, as in other cases; and when such judgment is payable in instalments, the execution may issue for such instalments, as have become due, and the costs of judgment; and whenever any other instruments become due, execution may in like manner be issued for the collection and enforcement of the same. 

Chapter 24. Submitting controversies without action.

§ 160. Parties to a question in difference which might be the subject of an action, may, without action, agree upon a case containing the facts upon which the controversy depends, to present a submission of the same to any court which would have jurisdiction if an action had been brought. But it must appear by affidavits that the controversy is real, and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of the parties; the court shall thereupon hear and determine the case, and render judgment thereon as if an action were depending.

§ 161. Judgment shall be entered as in other cases, but without costs for any proceeding prior to the trial.

§ 162. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if it had been rendered in an action, and shall, in the same manner, be subject to appeal.

Chapter 25. Manner of giving and entering judgment.

§ 163. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment shall be entered by the clerk, in conformity to the verdict, within four days after the rendition thereof, unless an affidavit or statement of grounds for new trial shall be filed, or unless the court order the case to be reserved for argument or further consideration, or grant a stay of proceedings.

§ 164. When the case is reserved for arguments or further consideration, as mentioned in the last section, it may be brought by either party, before the court for argument, at the first term thereafter.

§ 165. If a set-off established at the trial exceed the plaintifff's demand so established, judgment for the defendant shall be given for the excess; or, if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief, judgment shall be given accordingly.

§ 166. Whenever a judgment shall be satisfied, otherwise than upon execution, it shall be the duty of the party or attorney to give such acknowledgment and, upon motion, the court may compel it, or may order the entry of satisfaction to be made without it.

Chapter 26. Miscellaneous provisions.

§ 167. Every direction of a judge or court made or entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order. An application for an order is a motion.

§ 168. Motions may be made to the court at term, or to a judge in vacation, unless otherwise provided by statute.

§ 169. Motions shall be made within the district in which the action is triable. No order to stay proceedings for a longer time than twenty days shall be granted by a judge out of court, not shall any order be granted out of court, except upon previous notice to the adverse party. 

§ 170. A notice of a motion in vacation shall be served ten days before the time appointed for the hearing. 

§ 171. Notice shall be in writing, and notices and other papers may be served on the party or attorney, in the manner prescribed in the next three sections where not otherwise provided by statute. 

§ 172. The service may be personal, by delivery to the party or attorney on whom the service is required to be made, or it may be as follows:
1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence from his office, by leaving the notice or other papers with his clerk therein, or with a person having charge thereof; or where there is no person in the office, by leaving them between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening, in a conspicuous place in the office, or if it be not open, so as to admit of such service, then by leaving them at the attorney's residence, with some person of suitable age and discretion.
2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the notice or other papers at his residence, between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening, with some person of suitable age and discretion.

§ 173. Service by mail may be made, where the person making the service and the person on whom it is to be made, reside in different places, between which there is a regular communication by mail.

§ 174. In case of service by mail, the notice or other paper shall be deposited in the Post Office, addressed to the person on whom it is to be served, at his place of residence, and the postage paid; and in such case, the time of service shall be double that required in case of personal service.

§ 175. Where a defendant shall not have demurred, answered, or given the plaintifff or his attorney written notice of his appearance, service of notice or papers in the ordinary proceedings in an action, need not be made upon him. 

§ 176. Where a plaintifff or defendant who has demurred, answered, or given notice of his appearance, resides out of the territory, and has no agent or attorney in the action, the service may be made by mail.

§ 177. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the service of a summons, or other process, or of any paper to bring a party into contempt. 

§ 178. An affidavit, notice or other paper, without the title of the action or proceeding in which is tis made, or with a defective title, shall be as valid and effectual for every purpose as if duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to the action or proceeding in which it is made. 

§ 179. The time within which an act is to be done as provided in this chapter, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. 

§ 180. When a cause of action has arisen in another state or territory, or in a foreign country, and by the laws thereof, an action thereon cannot be maintained against a person by reason of lapse of time, an action shall not be maintained against him in this territory. 

Chapter 27. The execution.

§ 181. The party in whose favor judgment is given, may at any time within three years after the rendition thereof, have a writ of execution for its enforcement, as proscribed by statute.

§ 182. After the lapse of three years after the entry of judgment, as execution can be issued only by leave of the court, upon motion, with personal notice to the adverse party, unless he be absent or a non-resident, or cannot be found, to make such service, in which case such service may be made by publication, or in such other manner as the court shall direct. Such leave shall not be given, unless it be established by the oath of the party, or other satisfactory proof, that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains unsatisfied and due.

§ 183. When a judgment requires the payment of money, or the delivery of real or personal property, the same may be enforced in those respects by execution as provided in this chapter. When it requires the performance of any other act, a certified copy of the judgment may be served on the party against whom it is given, or the person or officer who is required thereby, or by law to obey the same, and his obedience thereto enforced. If he refuse, he may be punished by the court as for a contempt. 

§ 184. There shall be two kinds of executions. One against the property of the judgment debtor; another for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, or such delivery with damages for withholding the same. 

§ 185. The writ of execution shall be issued in the name of the people of the territory of Utah, sealed with the seal of the court, and subscribed by the clerk, and shall be directed to the sheriff, or other proper officer, and shall intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the court---the names of the parties---the amount of the judgment if it be for money, and the amount actually due thereon, and shall require the sheriff substantially as follows:
1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of the personal property of such debtor, and if sufficient personal property cannot be found, out of the real property belonging to him.
2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands of personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property or trustees, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of such property.
3. If it be for the delivery of possession of real or personal property, it shall require the sheriff to deliver the possession of the same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and may at the same time, require the sheriff to satisfy any costs, charges, damages or rents and profits recovered by the same judgment out of the personal property of the party against whom it was rendered, and the value of the property for which the judgment was rendered to be specified therein. If a delivery thereof cannot be had, and sufficient personal property cannot found, then out of the real property belonging to him. 
4. The sheriff shall endorse upon a writ of execution, the time when he received the same, and such execution shall be returnable within sixty days after its receipt by the sheriff, to the clerk of the court who issued it. 

§ 186. All property real and personal of the judgment debtor, not exempt by laws, shall be liable to execution. Until a levy is made property shall not be affected by the execution.

§ 187. The following property shall be exempt from execution, except when otherwise specially provided by statute:
All buildings owned by the territory or any county, city, ward, or school district, university, religious, scientific, or benevolent society or association, and the grounds on which such buildings stand. All public squares, burying grounds. 

§ 188. The following property of individuals is also exempt from execution:
All wearing apparel of the judgment debtor and that of his family, and trunks or other receptacles to contain the same. All personal arms, ammunition, and accoutrements. 

§ 189. All tools, instruments, apparatus, or other implements and material, or books or other things to enable any person to carry on the profession, trade, occupation or business in which such person may be wholly or in part engaged. 

§ 190. All libraries, family books, statues, portraits, pictures and paintings, and any interest owned by the debtor or his parents in one house of public worship, school house, or burying ground. The dwelling house or houses in which such debtor resides, and the lot or parcel of land on which such dwellings are situated, and five acres of land for each person in the family, with the improvements thereon. 

§ 191. The horses or teams and wagons, or other vehicle with the proper harness or tackle by the use of which any such person earns his living. One cow and calf for every two persons in the family. Five sheep for each person in the family, and the wool, yarn or cloth produced therefrom. One hog for each person in the family and the necessary food for all such animals for one year. 

§ 192. All flax, hemp, and cotton raised by the debtor or his family, and the manufactures therefrom. Two bedsteads and the necessary beds and bedding, for every three persons in the family. All cloth manufactured by the debtor or his family, all stoves used by the family; all household and kitchen furniture; all spinning wheels, looms and other instruments of domestic labor; the necessary fuel and provisions for the use of the family for one year; the personal earnings of such debtor and his family at any time within ninety days next preceding the levy are also exempt from execution or attachment. 

§ 193. None of the exemptions herein made are intended for non-residents; but their property is liable to execution, with the exception of the ordinary wearing apparel; but any person coming within the territory with the intention of remaining, is a resident within the meaning of this chapter; and nothing herein shall be so construed as to exempt the property of any transient person or persons about to depart from the territory or county, with the intention of removing their effects therefrom.

§ 194. Before the sale of property on execution, notice thereof shall be given as follows:
1. In case of personal property, by posting written or printed notice of the time and place of sale, in there public places of the county when the sale is to take place, not less than ten days successively.
2. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice, particularly describing the property, for four weeks successively, in three public places of the county where the property is situated and also where the property is to be sold; and publishing a copy thereof once a week for the same period in a newspaper of the county, if there be one, or if there be none, then in a newspaper published nearest to the place of sale.

§ 195. Any officer selling without the notice prescribed by the last section, shall forfeit one hundred dollars to the party aggrieved, in addition to his actual damages; and a person willfully taking down, or defacing the notice posted, if done before the sale or satisfaction of the execution, and without the consent of the parties, shall forfeit fifty dollars to the party aggrieved; but the validity of the sale shall not be affected by either act.

§ 196. All sales of property under execution shall be made by auction, between nine o'clock in the morning and sunset. After sufficient property has been sold to satisfy the execution, no more shall be sold. Neither the officer holding the execution, nor his deputy, shall become a purchaser or be interested in any purchase at such sales. When the sale is of personal property, capable of manual delivery, it shall be in view of those who attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels as are likely to bring the highest price; and when the sale is of real property and consisting of several known lots or parcels, they shall be sold separately; or when a portion of such real property is claimed by a third person, and he requires it to be sold separately, such portion shall be thus sold. Sales of real property shall be made on the premises if occupied by the defendant or any person holding under him, otherwise such sale shall be made at the house door. 

§ 197. When the sheriff shall levy upon personal property by virtue of an execution, he shall permit the defendant to retain the same, or any part thereof in his possession until the day of sale, upon the defendant's executing a written undertaking to the sheriff with sufficient surety in double the value of such property, to the effect that it shall be delivered to the sheriff at the time and place of sale; and for non-delivery thereof, an action may be maintained upon such undertaking by the sheriff or the plaintifff in the execution. 

§ 198. If, at the time appointed for the sale, the sheriff should be prevented from attending at the place appointed, or, being present, should deem it for the advantage of all concerned to postpone the sale for want of purchasers, or other sufficient cause, he may postpone the sale not exceeding one week, next after the day appointed, and so from time to time for the like cause, giving notice of every adjournment by public proclamation made at the same time. 

§ 199. When the purchaser of any personal property capable of manual delivery shall pay the purchase money, the sheriff shall deliver the property to him and if desired shall give him a certificate of the sale and payment. When such personal property shall not be capable of manual delivery, the sheriff shall execute and deliver to the purchaser a certificate of sale and payment. 

§ 200. Upon a sale of real property when the estate is less than a leasehold of two years unexpired term, the sale shall be absolute. In all other cases the real property shall be subject to redemption, as provided in this chapter. The sheriff shall give to the purchaser a certificate of the sale, containing:
1. A particular description of the property sold;
2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel;
3. The whole price paid;
4. When subject to redemption it shall be so stated, a duplicate of which certificate shall be filed by the sheriff with the recorder of deeds of the county.

§ 201. Property sold subject to redemption, as provided in the last section or any part sold separately, may be redeemed in the manner hereinafter provided, by the following persons or their successors in interest: 
1. The judgment debtor, or his successor in interest in the whole, or any part of the property.
2.  A creditor having a lien by judgment, mortgage or otherwise in the property sold, or on some share or part thereof, subsequent to that on which the property was sold. The persons mentioned in the second subdivision of this section, after having redeemed the property, are terms redemptioners. 

§ 202. The judgment debtor or lien creditor may redeem the property from the purchaser within twelve months after the day of sale, on paying him the amount of his purchase with ten per cent thereon in addition, together with any taxes which the purchaser may have paid thereon after the purchase and if the purchaser be also a creditor, having a lien prior to that of the redemptioner; the amount of such lien with interest. 

§ 203. If the property be so redeemed by a redemptioner, either the judgment debtor or any other lien creditor, may within sixty days after the last redemption, again redeem it on paying the sum paid on the last redemption with interest and the amount of taxes, which the last redemptioner may have paid thereon, and unless his lien be prior to that of such last redemptioner, the amount of such lien with interest. The property may be again, and as often as the judgment debtor, or any lien creditor or redemptioner is disposed, redeemed from the last previous redemption within sixty days after the last redemption on paying the sum paid on the last previous redemption, with interest an dthe amount of any taxes paid thereon by such last redemptioner and the amount of any liens held by such last redemptioner, prior to his own with interest. Notice of the redemption shall in all cases be given to the sheriff.

§ 204. If no redemption be made within twelve months after the sale, the purchaser shall be entitled to a conveyance; or if so redeemed, whenever sixty days shall have expired, and no other redemption has been made, and notice thereof given, the time for redemption shall have expired, and the last redemptioner shall be entitled to a sheriff's deed. If the judgment debtor redeem at any time before the time for redemption expires, the effects of the sale shall be terminated and he restored to his estate. The sheriff, before delivering a deed to any purchaser or redemptioner, shall submit the same to the court in which the settlement was rendered for its approval and if there be no irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale, such court shall endorse thereon its approval and thereupon the sheriff shall deliver such to the person entitled to the sam.e

§ 205. The payment for the redemption of property may be made to purchaser or redemptioner, as the case may be, or for him to the officer who made the sale; and the tender of the money shall be equivalent to payment. 

§ 206. A lien creditor, seeking to redeem property, shall produce to the officer or person from whom he seeks to redeem and serve with his notice to the sheriff.  
1. A copy of the docket of the judgment under which he claims the right to redeem, certified by the court in which the judgment was rendered. If he redeem upon a mortgage or other lien, a note of the record thereof, certified by the recorder;
2. A copy of any assignment to establish his claim, verified by his own affidavit, or of a subscribing witness thereto; and
3. An affidavit by himself, or his agents, showing the amount then actually due on the lien. 

§ 207. Until the expiration of the time allowed for redemption, the court may restrain the commission of waste on the property, by order granted with or without notice, on the application of the purchaser or judgment creditor; but it shall not be deemed waste for the person in the possession of the property at the time of sale, or entitled to possession afterwards, during the period allowed for redemption, to continue to use it in the same manner in which it was previously used; or to use it in the ordinary course of husbandry; or to make the necessary repairs to building thereon; or to use wood and timber on the property thereforee; or for the repair of fences; or for fuel in his family while he occupies the property.

§ 208. The purchaser from the time of sale until a redemption, and a redemptioner, from the time of his redemption until another redemption, shall be entitled to receive from the tenant in possession, the rents of the property sold, or the value of the use thereof. 

§ 209. If the purchaser of real property, sold on execution, or his successor in interest, be evicted therefrom in consequence of irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale, or of the reversal or discharge of the judgment, he may recover the price paid with interest from the judgment creditor. If the recovery be in consequence of the irregularity of the proceedings concerning the sale, the judgment may by order of the court upon notice to the debtor be revived and a new execution issued for the price paid on the sale, with interest. Such judgment shall be a lien on the real estate of the judgment debtor, only from the time of its revival.

§ 210. When property liable to an execution against several persons is sold thereon, and more than a due proportion of the judgment is levied upon the property of one of them, or one of them pays, without sale, more than his proportion, he may compel contributions from the others; and when a judgment is against several, and is upon an obligation or contract of one of them as security for another, and the surety pays the amount or any part thereof, either by sale of his property, or before sale he may compel payment from the principal. In such cases, the person so paying or contributing shall be entitled to the benefit of the judgment to enforce contribution or repayment if within thirty days after his payment, he file with the clerk of the court where the judgment was rendered, notice of his payment and claim to contribution or re-payment, upon filing such notice, the clerk shall make an entry thereof in the margin of the docket where the judgment is entered. 

Chapter 28. Competency of witnesses. 

§ 211. No person, if otherwise competent, shall be disqualified from being a witness on account of religious belief.

§ 212. No person offered as a witness, shall be excluded from giving evidence by reason of his interest in the event of the action.

§ 213. The last section shall not apply to a party to the action, nor to any person for whose immediate benefit it is prosecuted or defended. When an assignor of a thing in action or contract is examined as a witness, on behalf of any person deriving title through or from him, the adverse party may offer himself as a witness in the same matter in his own behalf, and he shall be so received. But such assignor shall not be permitted to be examined in behalf of any person deriving title through or from him, against any executor or administer. 

§ 214. No person offered as a witness shall be excluded from giving evidence, by reason of conviction for crime, but such conviction may be shown to affect his credibility. 

§ 215. The following persons shall not be competent to testify:
1. Those who are of unsound mind or intoxicated at the time of their production for examination. 
2. Children under ten years of age, who appear to be incapable of receiving just impressions of the facts respecting which they are examined or of relating them truly. Negroes, mulattos, and Indians, or persons having one fourth of negro or Indian blood, in an action or proceeding to which a white person is a party, but shall not be disqualified from testifying against another. 

§ 216. In order to encourage confidence and to preserve it inviolate, the following persons shall not be examined as witnesses: 
1. A husband shall not be examined for or against his wife, not a wife for or against her husband; nor can either during marriage or afterwards be without the consent of the other examined as to any communication made by one to the other during marriage. But this exception shall not apply to a civil action or proceeding by one against the other; nor to a criminal action or proceeding, for a crime committed by one against the other.
2. An attorney or counsellor shall not, without the consent of his client, be examined as to any communication made by the client to him, or his advice given thereon in the course of professional employment.
3. A clergyman or priest, or other religious teacher, shall not, without the consent of the person making the confession, be examined as to any confession made to him in his professional character in the course of discipline enjoined by the customs of the church to which he belongs. 
4. A physician or surgeon shall not, without the consent of his patient, be examined as to any information acquired in attending such patient, which was necessary to enable him to prescribe or act for the patient;
5. A public officer shall not be examined as to communications made to him in official confidence when the public interest would suffer by the disclosure. 

Chapter 29. Manner of compelling the attendance of witnesses. 

§ 217. No person shall be obliged to attend as a witness before any court of record, judge, justice of the peace, commissioner, or other officer, in any civil action, unless the fees be paid or tendered to him, which are allowed by law for one day's attendance as a witness, and for traveling to and returning from the place where he is required to attend, provided such fees be demanded by him, at the time of service of the subpoena. 

§ 218. The subpoena may require not only the personal attendance of the person to whom it is directed, at a particular time and place, to testify as a witness, but may also require him to bring with him any books, documents or other thing under his control.

§ 219. The subpoena shall be issued as follows:
1. To require the attendance before a court of record, or at the trial of an issue therein, it shall be issued in the name of the people of the territory of Utah and be under the seal of the court before which the attendance is required, or in which the issue is pending.
2. To require attendance before a judge, justice of the peace, commissioner, or other officer authorized to administer oaths, or take testimony in any matter under the laws of this territory, it shall be issued by such judge, justice of the peace, commissioner, or other officer before whom the attendance is required;
3. To require attendance before a commissioner appointed to take testimony by a court of any other state, territory, or county, it may be issued by any judge or justice of the peace, in places within their respective jurisdiction.

§ 220. Such subpoena may be served by any white person over eighteen years of age, by exhibiting and reading it to the witness, or by giving him a copy thereof, or by leaving such copy at the place of his abode.

§ 221. A person present in court, or before a judicial officer, may be required to testify in the same manner as if he was in attendance upon a subpoena issued by such court or officer.

§ 222. If any person duly served with a subpoena, and obliged to attend as a witness, shall fail so to do, without any reasonable excuse, he shall be liable to the aggrieved party, for all damages occasioned by such failure to be recovered in a civil action.

§ 223. Such failure to attend, as required by the subpoena shall also be considered as a contempt, and upon due proof of the service thereof, the witness may be fined not exceeding fifty dollars.

§ 224. The court, judge, or justice of the peace, in such case, may issue attachment to bring such witness before them, to answer for such contempt, and also to testify as a witness in the cause in which he was subpoenaed. 

§ 225. If the witness be a prisoner confined in a jail or prison within this territory, an order for his examination in prison, upon deposition, or for his temporary removal and production before a court or officer, for the purpose of being orally examined, may be made.

§ 226. Such order can only be made upon affidavit, showing the nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony expected from the witness and its materiality. 

Chapter 30. Examination of parties. 

§ 227. A party to an action or proceeding may be examined as a witness, at the instance of the adverse party, or of one of several adverse parties, and for that purpose, may be compelled in the same manner, and subject to the same rules of examination, as any other witness to testify at the trial, or he may be examined on a commission.

§ 228. The testimony of a party to an action may be rebutted by adverse testimony as in other cases.

§ 229. If a party refuse to attend and testify at the trial, or to be examined upon a commission, his complaint, answer or reply may be stricken out, and judgment taken against him and he may also in the discretion of the court, be proceeded against as in other case for a contempt.

§ 230. A party examined by an adverse party, as in this chapter provided, may be examined on his own behalf in respect to any matter pertinent to the issue. But if he testify to any new matter, not responsive to the inquiries put to him by the adverse party, or necessary to explain or qualify his answer thereto, or to discharge when his answer would charge himself, such adverse party may offer himself as a witness on his own behalf in respect to such new matter, and shall be received.

§ 231. A person whose immediate benefit the action is prosecuted or defendant, though not a party to the action, may be examined as a witness in the same manner and subject to the same rules of examination as if he were named as a party. 

Chapter 31. Of depositions taken in this territory.

§ 232. The testimony of a witness in this territory, may be taken by deposition, to be read in evidence, in any action, suit or proceeding, commenced and pending in any court in this territory, in the following cases:
1. When the witness resides out of the county or district, and more than twenty miles from the place of trial;
2. When the witness is about to leave the county or district and there is a probability that he will continue absent when the testimony is required;
3. When the witness is sick, infirm, or aged, as to make it probable that he will not be able to attend at the trial.

§ 233. Either party may have the deposition of a witness taken in this territory, before any judge of the district or probate court, justice of the peace, clerk of the supreme, district, or probate court, mayor of a city, or notary public, on serving upon the adverse party, or his attorney of record, previous notice of the time and place of examination. Such notice shall be at least three days, and in addition one day, Sundays excepted, for every twenty miles of the distance to the place of examination, from the residence of the person to whom notice is given. 

§ 234. Before proceeding to the examination, the witness shall be sworn by the officer taking the deposition, to testify the truth and nothing but the truth, relating to the cause for which such deposition is taken; he shall then be examined by the parties or their attorneys, if they shall think fit or by the officer, either upon verbal or written interrogatories, on all the points which they shall deem material. 

§ 235. The deposition shall be written by the officer taking the same, or by the witness, or by some disinterested person in the presence and under the direction of such officer. When completed it shall be carefully read to, or by the witness, corrected if desired, and subscribed to by him and certified by the officer substantially as follows:
Territory of Utah
County of __
I, A.B. Justice of the Peace, in and for said County, (or Judge, Clerk, etc. as the case may be) do hereby certify that the above deposition was taken before me, and reduced to writing by myself (or witness, etc. as the case may be) at __, in said County on the __ day of 18--, at __ o'clock in pursuance of notice; that the above named witness before examination was sworn (or affirmed) to testify the truth and nothing but the truth, and that the said deposition was carefully read to (or by) said witness and then subscribed by him. 
Done at __, the __ day of __ 18--A.B.
Justice of the Peace

§ 236. The deposition shall be enclosed and sealed by the officer taking the same, and directed to the clerk of the court, arbitrators, or justice of the peace, before whom the action is pending, or to such person as the parties in writing may agree upon, and either delivered to the clerk of the court, or other person, or transmitted through the mail, or by some private opportunity.

§ 237. Such deposition may be sued by either party, upon the trial or other proceeding, against any party giving or receiving notice, subject to all legal exceptions, to the competency or credibility of the witness, or the manner of taking the deposition. But if the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form of an interrogatory shall be made at the trial, unless the same was taken at the time of the examination. 

§ 238. No deposition shall be used, if it shall appear that the reason for taking it no longer exists; provided, however, that if the party producing the deposition in such case, shall show any sufficient cause for using such deposition it may be omitted. 

§ 239. When the plaintifff in any action shall discontinue it, or when it shall be dismissed for any cause, and another action shall afterwards be commenced for the same cause, between the same parties or their respective representatives, all depositions lawfully taken in the first action, may be used in the other, in the same manner and subject to the same conditions and objections as if originally taken for such action; provided, that the deposition shall have been duly filed in the court where the first action was pending and shall remain in the custody of the court, from the termination of the first action, until the commencement of the other. 

§ 240. When an action shall have been appealed from one court to another, all depositions lawfully taken to be used in the court below may be used in the appellate court in the same manner, and subject to such exceptions and objections above provided.

§ 241. Any witness may be subpoenaed and compelled by any officer authorized to take depositions to appear and give his deposition at any place within twenty miles of the abode of such witness, in like manner and under the same penalties as he may be subpoenaed and compelled to attend as a witness in court. 

Chapter 32. Of depositions taken out of the territory.

§ 242. The testimony of a witness out of this Territory may be taken by deposition, to be read in evidence in any action, suit or proceeding, pending in any court in this Territory, subject to all legal objections.

§ 243. The deposition of a witness out of the Territory shall be taken upon a commission issued by the clerk, under the seal of the court, upon an order of the court, or a judge thereof, which order may be made on the application of either party, upon giving to the adverse party ten days previous notice in writing, together with a copy of the interrogatories intended to be put to such witness. If shall be issued to a person or persons not exceeding three in number, agreed upon by the parties, or, if they do not agree, to any judge, justice of the peace, notary public, or other competent person selected by the court or judge, granting the order for the commission.

§ 244. Such proper interrogatories, as well on the part of the plaintifffs, as on the part of the defendant, as the respective parties may prepare, to be settled, if they disagree as to form, by the court, or judge thereof, granting the order for the commission, shall be annexed to the commission; or when parties agree to the mode, the examination may be without written interrogatories.

§ 245. The commission shall authorize the commissioner or commissioners to administer an oath to the witness, and to take his deposition in answer to the several interrogatories answered to such commission, or when the examination is to be without interrogatories, in respect to the question in dispute; to certify the deposition to the court; and to direct it to the clerk of the court, or such other person designated or agreed upon, and forward it to him by mail or other usual channel of conveyance. 

§ 246. A trial or other proceeding shall not be postponed by reason of a commission not returned, except upon affidavit or other evidence satisfactory to the court, that the testimony of the witness is necessary, and that proper diligence has been used to obtain it. 

Chapter 33. Of proceedings to perpetuate testimony.

§ 247. When any person shall be desirous to perpetuate the testimony of any witness, he shall make a statement in writing, setting forth briefly and substantially his title, claim or interest in or to the subject concerning which he desires to perpetuate the evidence and the names of all persons interested or supposed to be interested therein; and also the name of the witness proposed to be examined, which statement shall be under oath and filed in the probate court of the county. If the subject of the proposed deposition relate to real estate within this territory, the statement shall be filed in the county where the lands, or any part thereof lie; otherwise in the county where the parties or some of them reside. Upon such statement, an application may be made to such court, or a judge thereof to allow the examination of such witness. 

§ 248. The court or judge shall appoint a time and place for hearing such application and shall order notice thereof, and of the statement to be served on all persons mentioned therein as adversely interested in the matter. The notice shall be served personally on all those living in the territory, at least twenty days before the time of hearing the application. Upon those who are not residents of the territory, it shall be served by publication or otherwise in the same manner as a summons is served upon a non-resident. 

§ 249. If upon such hearing of the parties, or of the applicant alone, should not adverse party appear, the court or judge shall be satisfied that there is sufficient cause for taking the deposition; an order shall be made allowing the examination of the witness; and such court or judge shall direct a commission to issue thereforee, in like manner as a commission to take the testimony of witnesses in other cases. 

§ 250. The deposition of such witnesses, whether residing in this territory or not, shall be taken upon written interrogatories, filed by any party adversely interested, if he shall think fit; and it shall be taken and returned substantially in the same manner as if taken upon commission, to be used in any case pending in the same court.

§ 251. The deposition when returned shall be filed in the office of the clerk or the probate court of the proper county. If a trial be had between the parties at whose requires the deposition was taken, and the persons named in the statement or any of them, or their successors in interest upon proof of the death or insanity of the witness, or of his inability to attend the trial, by reason of age, sickness or settled infirmity, the deposition, or a certified copy thereof, may be used by either party subject to all legal objections. But if the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form of the interrogatories shall be made at the trial, unless the same were taken at the time of the examination. 

Chapter 34. Of records, documents, and other writings.

§ 252. Any court in which an action is pending, or a judge thereof, may upon notice order either party to give to the other, within a specified time, an inspection and copy or permission to take a copy of any book, document, or other paper in his possession, or under his control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action or the defense therein. If compliance with the order be refused, the court may exclude the book, document, or paper from being giving in evidence; or if wanted as evidence by the party applying, may direct the jury to presume it to be such as he alleges it to be. This section shall not be construed to prevent a party from compelling another to produce books, papers, or documents, when he is examined as a witness. 

§ 253. Any party producing as genuine, which has been altered, or appears to have been altered after its execution, in a part material to the question in dispute and such alteration is not noted in the writing, shall account for the appearance or alteration. He may show that the alteration was made by another without his concurrence, or was made with the consent of the parties affected by it, or otherwise properly or innocently made. If he do that, he may give the writing in evidence but not otherwise. 

§ 254. The records and proceedings of any court of the United States, or any state or territory, shall be admissible in evidence in all cases in this territory, when authenticated by the attestation of the clerk, prothonotary, or other officer having charge of the records of such court, with the seal of such court annexed. 

§ 255. Whenever any deed, conveyance, mortgage, bond, or other writing shall have been recorded or filed in pursuance of law, copies of such deed, conveyance, mortgage, bond or other writing duly certified by the officer having charge or the lawful custody thereof, shall be received in evidence to all intents and purposes, as the originals themselves. 

§ 256. Copies of all papers on file in the offices of the surveyor general of Utah, secretary of Utah territory, territorial treasurer, territorial auditor, and any county treasurer or any matter recorded in either of the said offices, duly certified by the respective officers, shall be evidence in all the courts of this territory. 

§ 257. Printed copies of the statute laws of any state, territory, or foreign government if purporting to have been published under the authority of their respective governments or if commonly admitted and read as evidence in their courts, shall be admitted in all courts in this territory, and on all other occasions, as presumption evidence of such laws. 

Chapter 35. Writs of error.

§ 258. Every final judgment, order or decision of the district court in actions at law may be re-examined upon a writ of error; in the same court for error in fact, and in the supreme court for error in law. 

§ 259. Every such writ shall be prosecuted within two years and not after. But if the party entitled to have such writ shall be absent from the territory and shall not have been personally served with process, not appeared to the action, or if such party ben an infant, married woman, or imprisoned, or insane, then such writ may be prosecuted within two years from the removal of such disability and not after; provided that the absence from the territory shall not entitle the party to a longer time than five years; the time limited shall include the day on which the judgment is rendered or the order or decision is made, or on which the disability ceases. 

§ 260. A writ of error shall be deemed to have been taken on the day on which the plaintifff in error shall file in the office of the clerk of the district court, a written undertaking, with two or more sureties, to be approved by the clerk for the payment of all the costs of such proceeding which may be adjudged against him. 

§ 261. On the filing of such undertaking, the clerk shall issue a notice to the defendant in error, under the seal of the court, specifying the court in which and the time when he is to appear to protect his interest, and if the writ of error is to be made returnable to the supreme court, he shall send thither a transcript of the record under the seal of the court. Such notice may be, as nearly as applicable in the following form: 
Territory of Utah
District Court
To C.D.
You are hereby notified that A.B. has sued out a writ of error from the supreme court, to reverse the judgment of the district court of said district, given in your favor, against the said A.B. at the __ term of 18--; and unless you appear in the said supreme court on the __ Monday of 18--, the cause will be heard in your absence. Witness the seal of the District Court.
The __ day of __ 18--.
E.F. clerk

§ 262. The notice may be served on the defendant in error, or his attorney of record by the sheriff of his county, and shall be by delivering him a copy thereof, or it may be served by any other disinterested person; and the return of the sheriff endorsed thereon or the affidavit of such other disinterested person, shall be evidence thereof, and if served ten days before the return day, the cause may be heard at that term. If returned "not found," the court of error may make such order for the service or publication of the notice, as shall appear most likely in the particular case, to convey a knowledge of the proceeding to the defendant in error, and may then proceed as if the notice had been personally served.

§ 263. The transcript shall contain a copy of the writ and return, the pleadings, the journal entries and bills of exceptions, the execution and return, and such other matters as the court or judge shall have ordered to be made as part of the record. Either party may have a certiorari to supply any deficiency of the record. 

§ 264. The court of error may affix the time for assigning errors and filing joinders. If errors in law be assigned, no joinder shall be necessary. One or more errors in fact may be assigned, and the defendant may put in the common joinder as a demurrer thereto, or may traverse or confess and avoid the facts assigned for error, and a separate issue shall be made on each. 

§ 265. The judgment or other matter complained of, may be affirmed, reversed,  modified, or set aside in whole or in part, and the cause may be remanded to the court below for such further proceedings as the supreme court by mandate shall direct.

§ 266. If the undertaking for costs contain an additional undertaking to pay the judgment if affirmed, or any modified judgment that may be given against the plaintifff in error, then all further proceedings by way of executing the judgment shall forthwith cease until the further order of the court of errors. And in cases where judgment is rendered against the plaintifff in error, judgment shall also be rendered against the sureties in the undertaking to the extent of their liabilities and execution shall issue against them accordingly.

§ 267. The undertaking for a writ of error may be in the following form:
We promise to pay all costs that may be awarded against A.B. on his writ of error in this cause, and also the judgment if affirmed, or any modified judgment that may be given against him.

§ 268. If, after the undertaking be filed, either party shall die, or being a single woman shall marry, and the cause of action survive, the proper persons may, on motion, be made parties and the cause shall proceed to judgment. 

§ 269. Any person who may be a party or privy in any judgment, order or decision, may prosecute a writ of error, and the judgment of the court thereon shall inure to the benefit of all parties and privies therein. 

§ 270. The reversal of a judgment, order, or decision, shall not affect the title of property sold upon an execution issued upon such judgment, order or decision, if such property be purchased as the sale by a stranger, but if purchased by the judgment creditor, the plaintifff in error may bring an action for the recovery thereof, and the court may award restitution or render such other judgment as justice may require. 

§ 271. When the supreme court shall be equally divided in opinion, the cause shall stand continued until all the judges are present. 

Chapter 36. Set-offs. 

§ 272. On the following cases, and under the following circumstances, a defendant in an action or law, may set-off demands which he has against the plaintifff:
1. It must be a demand arising upon judgment or upon contract, express or implied, whether such contract be written or unwritten, sealed or without seal; and if it be founded upon a bond or other contract having a penalty, the sum equitably due, by virtue of its condition only shall be set-off;
2. It must be due to him in his own right, either as being the original creditor or payee, or as being the assignee and owner of the demand;
3. It must be a demand for property sold for money paid, or for services done; or if it be not such demand, the amount must be liquidated, or be capable of being ascertained by calculation;
4. It must have existed at the time of the commencement of the action, and must then have belonged to the defendant;
5. It shall be allowed only in actions founded upon demands which could themselves be the subject of set-off, according to law;
6. If there be several defendants, the demand set-off must be due to all of them jointly;
7. It must be a demand existing against the plaintifff in the action, unless the action be brought in the name of a plaintifff who has no real interest in the contract, upon which the action is founded; in which case no set-off of a demand against the plaintifff shall be allowed, unless as hereinafter specified.

§ 273. If the action be founded upon a contract, other than a negotiable promissory note, or bill of exchange which has been assigned to the plaintifff, a demand existing against such plaintifff, or any assignor of such contract, at the time of the assignment thereof, and belonging to the defendant in good faith, before notice of such assignment may be set-off to the amount of the plaintifff's debt, if the demand be such as might have been set-off against such assignor, while the contract belonged to him. 

§ 274. If the action be upon a negotiable promissory note, or bill of exchange assigned to the plaintifff after it became due, a set-off to the amount of the plaintifff's debt, may be made of a demand existing against any person or persons who shall have assigned or transferred such note or bill after it becomes du, if the demand be such as might have been set off against the assignor, while the note or bill belonged to him.

§ 275. If the plaintifff be a trustee, for any other, or if the action be in the name of a plaintifff who has no real interest in the contract, upon which the action is founded, so much of a demand existing against those whom the plaintifff represents or for whose benefit the action is brought may be set off, as will satisfy the plaintifff's debt, if the same might have been set off in an action brought by those beneficially interested.

§ 276. In actions brought by executors or administrators, demands against their testators or intestates, and belonging to the defendant at the time of their death, may be set off by the defendant, in the same manner as if the action had been brought by and in the name of the defendant. 

§ 277. When a set off shall be established, in an action brought by executors or administrators, and the balance found due to the defendant, the judgment rendered thereforee against the plaintifffs shall have the same effect as if the action had been originally commenced by the defendant.

§ 278. In actions against executors and administrators, and against trustees and others sued in their representative character, the defendants may set off demands belonging to their testators or intestate, or those whom they represent in the same manner as the persons so represented would have been entitled to set off the same, in an action against them.

§ 279. To entitle a defendant to a set off, he must set forth the same in his answer.

§ 280. If the amount of the set off duly established be equal to the plaintifff's debt or demand, judgment shall be entered that the plaintifff take nothing by his action: if it be less than the plaintifff's debt or demand, the plaintifff shall have judgment for the residue only.

§ 281. If there be found a balance due from the plaintifff in the action to the defendant, judgment shall be rendered in favor of the defendant for the amount thereof. 

Chapter 37. Of attachments.

§ 282. When any action founded upon contract express or implied shall have been commenced or is about being commenced, the plaintifff may have the property of the defendant, not exempt from execution, attached as a security for the satisfaction of such judgment as he may recover as herein provided. 

§ 283. If it be subsequent to the commencement of the action, a separate complaint must be filed and in all cases the proceedings relative to the attachment as to be deemed independent of the ordinary proceedings and only auxiliary thereto.

§ 284. The complaint shall be subscribed and sworn to and shall set forth that a cause of action exists against the defendant and the amount claimed over and above all legal set-offs and the nature thereof; and as the affiant verily believes,
1. That the defendant is not a resident of this territory or has departed therefrom with the intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of a summons;
2. That he has assigned, secreted, or disposed of, or is about to assign, secrete or dispose of his property, or any part thereof, with the intent to defraud his creditors. 

§ 285. Before issuing a writ of attachment, the plaintifff shall execute a bond to the defendant, with two or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the justice of the peace, judge, or clerk of the court in which the action is brought, in a sum equal to double the amount claimed. Conditioned, that if the defendant recover judgment the plaintifff will pay all costs that may be awarded the defendant and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the bond. The bond shall be filed with the proceedings in the case, and shall be for the use of any person injured by the proceedings.

§ 286. If the attachment was wrongfully sued out, suit may be brought on such bond before the principal suit is determined. 

§ 287. The writ of attachment shall be issued by the clerk of the court or justice, as the case may be, and directed to the sheriff or other proper officer of the court, and shall require him to attach and safely keep, all the property of such defendants not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's demand as stated in the complaint, together with costs of suit.

§ 288. The officer shall execute such writ by taking into his possession, all property, capable of manual delivery and giving the defendant, if to be found, notice of such attachment. 

§ 289. The officer shall note on the writ, the day, month, and year, when the attachment was made and shall make a full inventory of the property attached and return the same with the writ of attachment.

§ 290. If any of the property attached be perishable, the sheriff shall sell the same in the manner in which property is sold on execution. The proceeds thereof, and other property attached shall be retained by him to answer any judgment that may be recovered in the action, unless it be delivered over as prescribed in the next section, or unless sooner subjected to execution upon another judgment recovered previous to the issuing of the writ of attachment. Debts and credits of the defendant may be attached and collected, if the same can be done without suit, and the receipt of the officer attaching the same, shall be sufficient discharge of the amount paid. 

§ 291. The officer shall deliver any of the property to the defendant or to any other person claiming it and in whose possession it was attached upon his giving a written undertaking thereforee, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, conditioned to deliver it or pay the value thereof to the officer, to whom execution upon a judgment obtained by the plaintifffs in that action may be issued. 

§ 292. If an action be brought upon such undertaking against the principal or his sureties, it shall be a defense that the property for which the undertaking was given did not at the execution of the writ of attachment belong to the defendant against whom it was issued, or that such property was exempt from execution. 

§ 293. If judgment be recovered by the plaintifff against the defendant in such action, the sheriff or other officer shall satisfy the same out of the property attached by him, if it be sufficient for that purpose;
1. By paying to the plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of perishable property sold by him, or of any debts or credits collected by him, or so much as shall be necessary to satisfy the judgment.
2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have been issued on the judgment, he shall sell under the execution, so much of the property, real or personal, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if enough for that purpose remain in his hands. Notices of the sales shall be given, and the sales conducted as in other cases of sales on execution. 

§ 294. If after selling all the property attached by him remaining in his hands, and applying the proceeds to the payment of the judgment and costs, any balance shall remain due, the sheriff or other officer shall proceed to collect such balance as upon an execution in other cases. Whenever the judgment and all the costs in the proceeding shall have been paid, the sheriff or other officer upon reasonable demand shall deliver over to the defendant the residue of the attached property, or the proceeds thereof.

§ 295. If the defendant recover judgment against the plaintifff, any undertaking received in the action, all the proceeds of sales and money collected by the officer, and all the property attached remaining in his hands shall be delivered to the defendant or his agent, and the attachment shall be discharged.

§ 296. The defendant may also, at any time before the time for answering expires, apply on motion to the court or judge to discharge the attachment on the ground that the writ was improperly issued.

§ 297. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to those on which the writ of attachment was issued. If upon such application, it shall satisfactorily appear that such writ was improperly issued, it shall be discharged.

§ 298. When the writ of attachment shall be fully executed, the officer shall return the same with his proceedings thereon, to the court in the which the action was brought. 

Chapter 38. Garnishment.

§ 299. When an action is commenced, or is about to be commenced and the plaintifff is entitled to a writ of attachment against the property and effects of the defendant; or when judgment has been recovered in any action and upon execution sufficient property of the defendant cannot be found to satisfy such execution, the plaintifff may file a complaint in the court in which the action is brought against any person as garnishee, setting forth that such person has property of the defendant in his possession; or that he is indebted to said defendant, and the facts in relation thereto may appear; as summons shall thereupon issue to said garnishee reciting the above facts and requiring him to appear and answer the complaint, or that judgment by default will be taken against him as in ordinary cases.

§ 300. The subsequent pleadings and proceedings in an action against a garnishee shall be in all respects as between a plaintifff and defendant in a similar action. 

§ 301. If upon trial it shall appear that the garnishee is possessed of property or effects of the defendant, or is indebted to the defendant the value of such property or effects, or of the debt being ascertained, judgment may be rendered against the garnishee for the proper amount. The court may make him a reasonable allowance for his trouble in the case, to be paid out of the fund due in his hands, but in no case shall final judgment be rendered against the garnishee until there shall be final judgment against the defendant, and in no case for a greater amount than that claimed by the plaintifff. 

§ 302. Whenever any property, effects, money or debts, belonging or owing to the defendant shall as aforesaid be found to be in the possession of the garnishee, he may at any time before final judgment discharge himself by delivering the same to the sheriff or other proper officer, but execution shall not be awarded against the garnishee for any debt until the same shall become due.

§ 303. No territorial or county treasurer shall be liable as such to answer as garnishee for any money in his possession.

Chapter 39. Of replevin.

§ 304. When the action is to recover the possession of personal property, the complaint shall set forth:
1. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed, particularly describing it, or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof by virtue of a special property therein, the facts in respect to which shall be set forth;
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant;
3. That the defendant refuses to deliver such property to the plaintifff, after the same has been demanded;
4. The actual value of the property.

§ 305. At the time of filing the complaint, the plaintifff shall also execute a bond to the defendant, with two or more  sufficient sureties, to be approved by the justice of the peace, judge or clerk of the court, as the case may be, in a penalty at least double the alleged value of the property sought; Conditioned, that he will prosecute his action to judgment and abide the judgment of the court, and pay all damages and costs that may be adjudged against him; the bond shall be filed with the proceedings in the case, and shall be for the use of any person injured by the proceedings.

§ 306. The writ of replevin shall be issued, directed and returned as any other summons in civil cases, and shall contain a full description of the property sought to be recovered as laid in the complaint and commanding the officer to execute the same by taking into his custody all such property as is specified in the writ and safely keep the same, subject to the judgment of the court thereon; and to summon the defendant as in other cases to answer unto the plaintifff for such unlawful detention; provided, that in all cases the defendant shall have the right to give good and sufficient bond and security to the officer executing such writ and approved by him; conditioned, that he will deliver up all such property according to the judgment of the court as aforesaid and for the payment of all damages and costs that may be adjudged against him, and such bond shall be for the benefit of any person injured by the proceedings.

§ 307. The defendant upon giving bond as above provided, shall retain the property replevied, subject to the judgment of the court.

§ 308. In case the defendant does not give bonds, as hereinbefore provided, the plaintifff may by giving such bond and security, take such property into his possession, subject to the judgment of the court as aforesaid.

§ 309. The proceedings in an action of replevin shall be subject to the same usage and rules of practice as in ordinary civil actions, except as otherwise provided by statute. 

§ 310. If the plaintifff shall discontinue his suit, or become non-suited, or judgment be rendered against him on demurrer, or he shall otherwise fail to prosecute his suit to final judgment, the court, on application of the defendant, or his attorney, shall empanel a jury to inquire into the right of property and right of possession of the defendant, to the goods and chattels in controversy.

§ 311. If such jury find that such goods and chattels were the property of the defendant, or that he was entitled to the possession thereof at the commencement of the action, they shall assess damages for the defendant, as may be right and proper for which, together with costs of suit the court shall render judgment against the plaintifff.

§ 312. In all cases upon issue joined, where the jury shall find for the defendant, they shall also find whether he had the right of property or right of possession in said goods and chattels and if they find either in his favor they shall assess the damages of the defendant, on which judgment shall be rendered as declared in the preceding section. 

§ 313. Where the jury find for the plaintifff, they shall assess adequate damages to the plaintifff for the alleged detention of the property, for which and the costs of suit, the court shall render judgment. 

Chapter 40. Ejectment.

§ 314. Any person having a valid subsisting interest and right to the possession thereof according to the laws of this territory, in real property, or any improved lands, farm, city lots, houses or buildings, or other improvements or premises on the public lands of the United States, or where any improved lands, farms, city lot, house, building, improvement or premises have been let, leased or contracted for a term, and at the expiration of the contract or term, the lessee or other occupant refuses to yield up the possession to the lessor or to such person as may be entitled to the possession thereof, may recover the same by action, which may be brought against any person acting as owner, landlord, tenant, lessee, or any one who may be in possession thereof. 

§ 315. The plaintifff, in his complaint, shall state that he is entitled to the possession of the property, particularly describing it, the interest he claims therein; and that the defendant unlawfully keeps him out of the possession; and the damages, if any, which he claims for withholding the property. 

§ 316. The answer of the defendant shall set forth under what claim of rights, if any, he holds possession and if he does not defend for the whole of the property, he shall specify for what particular part he does defend. 

§ 317. The proceedings in an action of ejectment shall be subject to the same usages and rules of practice as in ordinary civil actions, except as otherwise provided by statute.

§ 318. If the jury find for the plaintifff, they shall also find the amount of damages for withholding the property, and judgment shall be rendered accordingly. 

§ 319. If the right of the plaintifff to the possession of the property expire after the commencement of the action, and before the trial, the verdict shall be returned according to the facts and judgment shall be entered only for the damages and costs. 

§ 320. When damages are claimed for withholding the property upon which permanent improvements have been made by the defendant, or those under him he claims, holding under color of title adversely to the claims of the plaintifff, in good faith, the value of such improvements shall be allowed as a set-off against such damages.

§ 321. The court or judge thereof, on motion and after notice to the opposite party, may for cause shown, grant an order allowing the party applying thereforee, to enter upon the property in controversy and make survey and admeasurement thereof, for the purposes of the action.

§ 322. The order shall describe the property and a copy thereof shall be served upon the owner or occupant and thereupon the party may enter upon the property and make such survey and admeasurement but if any unnecessary injury be done to the premises he shall be liable thereforee. 

§ 323. An action of ejectment against a person in possession cannot be prejudiced by any alienation by such person either before or after the commencement of the action.

§ 324. A mortgage of such property shall not be deemed a conveyance, so as to enable the owner of the mortgage to recover possession of such property without a foreclosure and sale according to law.

§ 325. When in case of a lease of such property and the failure of the tenant to pay rent; the landlord has a right to re-enter for such failure, he may bring an action to recover possession of the property, but if at any time before judgment in such action, the lessee or his successor in interest pay to the plaintifff, or bring into court, the amount of rent then in arrear, with interest and the costs of the action, and perform the other covenants or agreements on the part of the lessee, he shall be entitled to the possession, according to the terms of the lease. 

Chapter 41. Actions on official securities, etc.

§ 326. The official bond or other security of a public officer to the territory, whether with or without securities shall be construed as security to the territory, and also to all persons severally for the official delinquencies, against which it is intended to provide. If it be to a county, city, village or other municipal body, it shall, in like manner be construed severally to all persons intended to be secured, as well as to the body politic named therein. 

§ 327. When a public officer, by official misconduct or neglect of duty shall forfeit his official bond, or render his sureties liable, upon any official security, any person injured thereby or who is by law entitled to the benefit of the security may bring an action thereon in his own name, against the officer and his securities, to recover the amount to which he may be entitled by reason of the delinquency. 

§ 328. A judgment in favor of a party for one delinquency shall not preclude the same or another party from an action on the same security for another delinquency, not exceeding the aggregate the amount of the bond or undertaking.

§ 329. Upon the execution issued on a judgment recovered upon the official security of a public officer against him and a surety, there shall be endorsed a direction to the officer to whom the execution shall be delivered to collect the same out of the property of the principal, if sufficient can be found and if not then to collect it out of the property of the security.

§ 330. If there be several judgments on which executions are at the same time in the sheriff's hands against a public officer and his sureties, amounting in the aggregate to a sum greater than that for which the sureties are liable the court shall on their application, limit the amount to be collected from them, to the amount of their respective liabilities and may cause the same to be applied on the judgment or executions in proportion to their amounts.

§ 331. Actions for fines and forfeitures may be prosecuted by the officers or persons to whom they are by law given, or those who by special provision of law are authorized to recover them; and whether prosecuted by public officers or private persons, shall be governed by the same rules as other civil actions, except when otherwise specified. 

§ 332. When an action shall be brought for a penalty, which is limited by law not to exceed a certain amount, the action may be brought for that amount, and upon the trial, the amount recovered shall be determined in proportion to the offense. 

§ 333. Fines and forfeitures not specially granted or appropriated by law shall be paid into the territorial treasury. 

Chapter 42. Mechanic's and laborer's lien.

§ 334. Any person who shall hereafter by virtue of any contract with the owner or his agent of any building or other improvement perform any labor upon or furnish any materials for the construction or repairing of such building or other improvement shall upon filing the notice prescribed in the next section, have a lien upon such building or other improvement and the lot of ground upon which the same is situated for such labor done, or materials furnished.  

§ 335. Any person wishing to avail himself of the provisions of this chapter, whether his claim be due or not, shall file in the recorder's office of the county in which such building or other improvement is situated, at any time within three months after the completion of such building, or other improvement as notice of his intention to hold a lien upon such building for the amount due or to become due, specifically setting forth such amount, and containing a description of the building or other improvement upon which the labor was performed, or for which the materials were furnished; which notice shall be recorded by the recorder, in a book to be kept for that purpose. 

§ 336. Such lien shall cease to exist at the expiration of one year after the completion of the building or other improvement unless before that time an action to enforce the same shall have been commenced by the person having such lien against the owner with whom or with whose agent the contract was made; unless such claim be not due at the expiration of one year after such completion, in which case the action shall be commenced within three months after the same shall have become due. 

§ 337. The complaint of the plaintifff shall contain a brief statement of the contract on which the claim is founded, the amount due thereon, the time when the notice was filed with the recorder, the time when the building or other improvement was completed, if it be completed with a description of the premises and any other material facts and shall pray that the premises be sold and the proceeds of the sale be applied to the discharge of the lien. 

§ 338. The summons shall be served as in other cases, or instead of service by publication it may be made by delivering a copy thereof to the person in possession of the premises. If the defendant shall have sold or disposed of the premises before the service of the summons, the court shall direct notice of the proceedings to be served on the purchaser, or his agent for the premises who may thereupon if he desire it, be made a party defendant in the action.

§ 339. The proceedings in an action to enforce such lien shall be the same as in the other actions, except as otherwise provided in this chapter; and if judgment be rendered for the plaintifff he may have an execution issued thereon to sell the premises and thereupon the sheriff shall proceed as upon other execution for the sale of real property and the owner or any lien creditor shall have the same rights of redemption after sale. 

§ 340. The liens created in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter shall have precedence over all other liens, after the commencement of the building or other improvement, and if upon a sale of the premises by execution, the proceeds be insufficient to pay all such liens, the court shall order them to be paid in proportion to the amounts respectively due to each, and any other property of the defendant, not exempt from execution, may be sold to satisfy such execution. 

§ 341. The liens against any building shall also extend to the ground upon which such building or other improvement is erected, if the land shall have been at the time of erecting such building the property of the person who shall have caused the same to be erected.

§ 342. All, or any number of persons having liens on the same building or other improvement pursuant to provisions of this chapter may join in one action but their claims shall be stated distinctly as in a separate action and the judgment shall show the amount to which they are respectively entitled. 

§ 343. Whenever any person having a lien by virtue of the provisions of this chapter, shall have received satisfaction for his claim and the costs of his proceedings thereon, he shall, upon the request of any person interested or upon the payment or tender of the costs of entering satisfaction, within six days after the tender or payment enter satisfaction of his demand in the office where the same is recorded; and upon failure to do so, he shall forfeit fifty dollars to the party aggrieved, and all damages which he may have sustained in consequence of such failure or neglect. 

§ 344. Any sub-contractor, journeyman, or laborer employed in the construction or repairing of any building or other improvement, or in furnishing any materials for the same, may give the owner thereof notice in writing, particularly setting forth the amount of his claim and the service rendered for which his employer is indebted to him, and that he holds the owner responsible for the same, and the owner of the building or other improvement shall be liable for such claim, if indebted to the employer to the amount; if not, then for the amount due from him to the said employer at the time such notice was served, which claim or amount may be recovered by an action against the owner, if brought within one year after the completion of the building or other improvement or the repairs thereon. 

§ 345. Whenever any sub-contractor journeyman or laborer shall recover any such claim from the owner of the building or other improvement, the same may be set-off by such owner in any action brought against him by the person who otherwise would be entitled to recover the same under the contract. 

Chapter 43. Arbitrations.

§ 346. All controversies which might be the subject of a personal action at law, or of a suit in equity, may be submitted to one or more arbitrators in the manner prescribed in this chapter.

§ 347. No such submission shall be made respecting the claim of any person to any estate in fee, or for life to any real estate, but any claim to an interest for any term of years, or for one year or less in real estate and controversies respecting the partition of lands between joint tenants or tenants in common, or concerning the boundaries of lands, or concerning the admeasurement of dower, may be submitted to arbitration. 

§ 348. The parties may appear in person or by their lawful agents, or attorneys before any justice of the peace or clerk of a court, and there sign and acknowledge an agreement in substance as follows:
Know all men that A.B., of __ and C.D. of __, have agreed to submit the demand, the statement whereof is hereto annexed and all other demands between them, as the case may be, to the determination of and, the award of whom or the greater number of whom being made and reported within days from this date to the court, shall be final and if either of the parties shall neglect to appear before the arbitrators, after due notice given them of the time and place appointed for hearing, the other parties may proceed in his absence. Dated this day of A.D. 18. A.B. C.D. 
And the justice or clerk shall subjoin to the said agreement his certificate in substance as follows:
Territory of Utah
County of 
Personally appeared before me, the above named A.B. and C.D. (or personally appeared the above named A.B. and C.D. by his attorney as the case may be) and acknowledged the above instrument by them signed to be their free act. Dated this day of 18. J.P. Justice of the Peace.

§ 349. If any specific demand be submitted to the exclusion of others, the demand submitted shall be set forth in the statement annexed to the agreement of submission, otherwise it shall not be necessary to annex any statement of a demand, and the words in the agreement relating to such statement may be omitted, and the submission may there be of all demand between the parties, or of all demands which either of them has against the other, or the submission may be varied in this respect, in any other manner, according to the agreement of the parties.

§ 350. Neither party shall have power to revoke a submission made as herein provided, without the consent of the other; and if either of them shall neglect to appear before the arbitrators, after due notice, the arbitrators may, nevertheless, proceed to hear and determine the cause upon the evidence provided by the other party, as provided in the agreement of submission.

§ 351. The arbitrators thus selected shall appoint a time and place for the hearing and shall adjourn the same from time to time as may be necessary; and on the application of either party and for good cause, they may postpone such hearing to a time not extending beyond the day fixed in such submission for rending their award.

§ 352. Before proceeding to hear any testimony, the arbitrators shall be sworn by any officer authorized to administer oaths, faithfully and fairly to hear and examine the matters in controversy and to make a just award according to law and evidence to the best of their understanding. 

§ 353. The time, within which the award shall be made and reported, may be made according to the agreement of the parties, and no award made after the time so agreed upon, shall have any legal effect or operation, unless made upon a re-commitment of the award by the court to which it is reported. 

§ 354. To entitle any award to be enforced according to the provisions of this chapter, it must be in writing and submitted by the arbitrators making the same.

§ 355. The award shall be delivered by one of the arbitrators to the clerk of the court designated in the agreement of submission, or shall be enclosed and sealed by them and transmitted to the clerk and shall remain sealed until opened by such clerk. 

§ 356. The award may be rejected by the court for any legal and sufficient reason, or it may be re-committed to the same arbitrators for a re-hearing by them; when an award is accepted and confirmed by the court, judgment shall be rendered thereon, in the same manner as upon a verdict of a jury, and execution shall issue accordingly. 

§ 357. Any party complaining of such award may move the court designated in such submission to vacate the same upon either of the following grounds:
1. That such award was procured by corruption, fraud or other undue means;
2. That there was evident partiality or corruption in the arbitrators or either of them;
3. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct in refusing to postpone the hearing upon sufficient cause shown, or in refusing to hear evidence pertinent and material to the controversy, or other misbehavior, by which the rights of such party shall have been prejudiced;
4. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers or that they so imperfectly executed them that a mutual final and definite award on the subject matter submitted was not made;
5. That the award was contrary to law and evidence.

§ 358. Any party to such submission may also move the court, designated therein, to modify or correct such award in the following cases:
1. When there is an evident miscalculation of figures, or an evidence mistake in the description of any person, thing, or property, referred to in such award;
2. Where the arbitrators shall have awarded upon some matter not submitted to them, nor affecting the merits of the decision upon the matters submitted;
3. Where the award shall be imperfect in some matter of form not affecting the merits of the controversy and where if it had been a verdict, such defect could have been amended or disregarded by the court, according to the provisions of law.

§ 359. The award may be returned at any term or session of the court, that shall be held within the time limited in the submission, and the parties shall attend at every such term or session without any express notice for that purpose, in like manner as if an action for the same cause were pending between them in the same court, but the court may require actual notice to be given to either party, when it shall appear necessary or proper, before they proceed to act upon the award. 

§ 360. Upon such award being confirmed or modified, the court shall render judgment in favor of the party to whom any sum of money or damages shall have been awarded, that he recover the same; and if the award shall have ordered any act to be done by either party, judgment shall be entered that such act be done according to such order. The costs of proceeding shall be taxed as in suits, and if no provision for the fees and expenses of the arbitrators shall have been made in the award, the court shall make a suitable allowance.

§ 361. A record of such judgment shall be made, commencing with a memorandum reciting the submission, then stating the hearing before the arbitrators, their award, the proceedings of the court hereupon, in modifying or confirming such award, and the judgment of the court for the recovery of the debt or damages awarded or other act to be done, and that the parties perform the acts ordered by the award and for the recovery of the costs allowed. 

§ 362. Such record shall be filed and docketed as in other similar cases, and shall have the same force and effect in all respects be subject to all the provisions of law in relation to judgments in like cases and may in like manner be moved and reversed by writ of error or appeal.

§ 363. If there be no provision in the submission concerning the costs of the proceedings, the arbitrators may make such award respecting the costs as they shall judge reasonable, including therein a compensation for their own services; but the court may reduce the sum charged for the compensation of the arbitrators if it shall appear unreasonable. 

§ 364. Where by such judgment any party shall be required to perform any act other than the payment of money, the court rendered such judgment shall enforce the same by rule, as in other like cases, and the party refusing or neglecting to perform and execute such act, or any part thereof, shall be subject to all the penalties for contemning an order of such court.

§ 365. The arbitrators shall have power to issue subpoenas having the same force and to the same extent as those issued by a justice of the peace, which shall be served by the same officers. They shall have full power to administer the necessary oaths to the parties or witnesses appearing before them, and any such parties or witnesses swearing willfully and corruptly false on any such hearing or examination, shall be deemed guilty of perjury. 

§ 366. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to impair or affect any action upon an award or upon any bond or other engagement to abide an award. 

Chapter 44. Limitation of actions.

§ 367. Actions shall only be commenced within the periods prescribed in this chapter, after the cause of action shall have accrued, except when in special cases a different limitation is prescribed by statute. But the objection that the action was not commenced within the time limited can only be taken by answer.

§ 368. The periods prescribed in the preceding section for the commencement of actions shall be as follows:
Within twenty years:
1. Actions for the recovery of real property, or for the recovery of the possession thereof.

§ 369. Within ten years:
1. An action upon a sealed instrument.
2. An action for relief not herein otherwise provided for.

§ 370. Within six years:
1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of the United States, or of any state or territory within the United States.
2. An action upon a liability created by statute, other than a penalty or forfeiture.
3. An action for waste or trespass upon real property.
4. An action for taking, detaining or injuring personal property, including an action for the specific recovery thereof. 
5. An action for criminal conversation or for any other injury to the person or rights of another, not hereinafter enumerated.
6. An action for relief on the ground of fraud the cause of action in such case not to be deemed to have accrued until the discovery by the aggrieved party of the facts constituting the fraud. 

§ 371. Within three years:
1. An action upon a contract or liability expressed or implied, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
2. An action against a sheriff, coroner, or constable, upon a liability incurred by the doing of an act in his official capacity, and in virtue of his office; or by the omission of an official duty; including the non-payment of money collected upon an execution.
3. An action upon a statute for penalty or forfeiture where the action is given to the party aggrieved or such party and the territory except where the statute imposing it prescribes a different limitation.

§ 372. Within two years:
1. An action upon a statute, for a forfeiture or penalty to the territory.

§ 373. Within one year:
1. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or false imprisonment.

§ 374. An action upon a statute for a penalty given in whole or in part, to the person who will prosecute for the same, shall be commenced within one year after the commission of the offense; and if the action be not commenced within one year, by a private party, it may be commenced within two years thereafter, in behalf of the territory or by the district attorney of the district or county where the offense was committed. 

§ 375. In an action brought to recover a balance due upon a mutual, open and current account where there have been reciprocal demands between the parties, the cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued form the time of the last item proved in the account on the adverse side. 

§ 376. The limitations prescribed in this chapter shall apply to actions brought in the name of the territory or for its benefit in the same manner as actions to private parties.

§ 377. An action shall be deemed commenced as to each defendant, when the summons is served on him, or on a co-defendant who is a joint contractor or otherwise united in interest with him.

§ 378. An attempt to commence an action shall be deemed equivalent to the commencement thereof, within the meaning of this chapter, when the summons is delivered to the sheriff or other proper officer with the intent that it shall actually be served. But such an attempt shall be followed by the first publication of the summons, or the service thereof, within sixty days. 

§ 379. If when the cause of action shall accrue against any person, who shall be out of the territory, or concealed, such action may be commenced within the terms herein respectively limited, after the return of such person into the territory, or the time of his concealment; and if after such cause of action shall have accrued such person shall depart from and reside out of this territory, or conceal himself, the time of his absence or concealment shall not be deemed or taken as any part of the time limited for the commencement of such action. 

§ 380. If a person entitled to bring an action mentioned in this chapter, except for a penalty or forfeiture or against a sheriff or other officer, be at the time the cause of action accrued, either:
1. A minor, or
2. insane, or
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under a criminal court for a term less than his natural life; or
4. A married woman;
The time of such disability shall not be a part of the time limited for the commencement of the action, nor can it be so extended in any case, longer than one year after the disability ceases.

§ 381. If a person entitled to bring an action die, before the expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause of action survive, an action may be commenced by his representatives after the expiration of the time and within one year from his death. If a person against whom an action may be brought die before the expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause of action survives, an action may be commenced against his representatives after the expiration of that time, and within one year after issuing letters testamentary or of administration. 

§ 382. When a person shall be an alien, subject or citizen of a country at war with the United States, the time of the continuance of the war shall not be a part of the period limited for the commencement of the action.

§ 383. When the commencement of an action is stayed by injunction or a statutory prohibition, the time of the commencement of the injunction or prohibition shall not be a part of the time limited for the commencement of the action. 

§ 384. If an action shall be commenced within the time prescribed thereforee and a judgement therein for the plaintifff be reversed by the supreme court, the plaintifff or if he die and the cause of action survive, his heirs or representatives may commence a new action within one year after the reversal.

§ 385. When two or more disabilities shall coexist, the limitation shall not attach until they all be removed. 

§ 386. No acknowledgment or promise shall be sufficient evidence of a new or continuing contract, whereby to take the cause out of the operation of this chapter, unless the same is contained in some writing, signed by the party to be charged thereby; but this section shall not alter the effect of any payment, or principal or interest.

§ 387. Whenever any payment of principal or interest has been or shall be made upon an existing contract, whether it be bill of exchange, promissory note, bond or other evidence of indebtedness, if such payment be made after the same shall have become due, the limitation shall commence from the time the last payment was made.

§ 388. When the cause of action has arisen in another state, territory, or country, and by the laws of the state, territory, or country where the cause of action arose, an action cannot be maintained thereon by reason of the lapse of time, no action shall be maintained thereon in this territory. 

§ 389. This chapter shall not extend to actions already commenced. 

Chapter 45. Interest of money.

§ 390. Creditors shall be allowed to receive interest at the rate of six per cent per annum, when no other rate of interest is agreed upon, for all monies after they become due, but any instrument of the debtor, in writing; for money lent or money due on settlement of accounts, from the day of liquidating the same, and ascertaining the balance; for money recovered for the use of another and retained without the owner's knowledge of the receipt; for money due and withheld by an unreasonable and vexatious delay of payment or settlement of accounts, and for all other monies due, or to become due, for the forbearance of payment whereof no express promise to pay interest has been made.  

§ 391. Interest shall be allowed on all money due by judgment at law or decree in equity from the rendition thereof until satisfaction be made by payment, accord or sale of property; judgments and decrees for money upon contracts, bearing more than six per cent interest, shall bear the same interest borne by such contracts; and all other judgments and decrees for money, shall bear six percent per annum, until satisfaction made as aforesaid. 

§ 392. Any rate of interest not exceeding twenty per cent per annum, agreed upon by the parties in contract, specifying the same in writing, shall be legal and valid.

§ 393. Any contract or agreement, directly or indirectly stipulating for a higher rate of interest than twenty per cent per annum shall be absolutely void. 

Chapter 46. Public lands.

§ 394. All contracts, promises and agreements either written or verbal, made for sale, purchase, or payment of claims or improvements made on the public lands owned by the government of the United States, where such claims or improvements are held or made in accordance with the laws of this territory, shall be deemed valid in law and equity, and may be sued for and recovered as in other contracts.

§ 395. All deeds of quit claim, transfers or other conveyances of all such claims or improvements upon such public lands, where the same is made in accordance with the laws of this territory, shall be as binding and effectual in law and equity between the parties for conveying the title of the grantor in and to the same, as in cases where the grantor has the fee simple to the premises conveyed.

§ 396. All claims and improvements on such public lands, where the same are held or made in accordance with the laws of this territory shall be in the personal property of the claimant or owner, and so held and considered in all cases, in law and equity.

§ 397. All dams, ponds, sects or water ditches made for irrigation or other useful purposes, leading to and made for the use of any claim or improvement though part or all of such dam, pond, sect or ditch, may not be on such claim or improvement shall be deemed and taken as belonging to and part thereof.

Chapter 47. Coroner.

§ 398. There shall be elected in each organized county in this territory at the next general election and every two years thereafter a coroner who shall before he enters upon the duties of his office, qualify and give a bond to the county in a sum not less than five hundred nor more than ten thousand dollars, with two or more sureties to be approved by the clerk of the county court, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of his office as are or may be prescribed by law and such bond shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the county court.

§ 399. In case the office of sheriff shall become vacant, it shall become the duty of the coroner of such county in which such vacancy shall occur to exercise all the powers and duties of sheriff; until such vacancy shall be filled; and when the sheriff for any cause shall be committed to the jail of his county, such coroner shall be keeper thereof, during the time the sheriff shall remain a prisoner therein. 

§ 400. Every coroner shall serve and execute process of every kind, and perform all the duties of the sheriff, when the sheriff shall be a party in the case, or whenever affidavit shall be made and filed as provided in the succeeding section; and in all such cases he shall exercise the same powers and proceed in the same manner as prescribed for the sheriff in the performance of similar duties; and in all such cases, coroner and their sureties shall be liable in the same manner, and to the same extent as the sheriffs are made liable in similar cases. 

§ 401. Whenever any party, his agent or attorney in any suit, shall make and file with the clerk of the court, an affidavit, stating that he believes the sheriff of such county will not, by reason either of partiality, prejudice or interest, faithfully perform his duties in such suit, the clerk shall direct the original or other process in such suit to the coroner, who shall execute the same.

§ 402. Coroners shall make inquest upon viewing of the dead body of such persons only as shall be supposed to have come to their death by violence and not where the death is believed to have been, and was evidently occasional by casualty. 

§ 403. As soon as any coroner shall have notice of the dead body of any person, supposed to have come to his death by violence, found or lying within his county, he shall issue his warrant to some constable of the county, requiring him to summon forthwith six good and lawful men of the county to appear before such coroner at the time and place expressed in such warrant and in substance as follows:
Territory of Utah
County of
To any constable of said county, greeting: In the name of the people of the territory of Utah, you are hereby commanded to summon immediately six good and lawful men of the county of , to appear before me coroner of said county at the dwelling house of or at a place called in said county at the hour of , then and there to inquire upon the view of the body of , there lying dead, when, how, and by what means he came to his death.
Hereof fail not.
Given under my hand,
The day of 18, coroner.

§ 404. The constable to whom such warrant shall be directed and delivered shall forthwith execute the same and shall at the time mentioned in the warrant repair to the place where the dead body is and make return thereof to the coroner of his doings thereon under his hands; and any constable who shall unnecessarily neglect or fail to execute or return such warrant, shall forfeit the sum of ten dollars, and if any person summoned as a juror shall fail to appear without a reasonable excuse thereforee, he shall forfeit the sum of five dollars, which forfeitures may be recovered in an action before a justice of the peace, to be brought by the coroner for the use of the county. 

§ 405. When the jurors who have been summoned appear, the coroner shall call over their names; and then in view of the dead body, shall administer to them the following oath:
"You solemnly swear or affirm, as the case may be, that you will diligently inquire and true presentment make, on behalf of the people of the territory of Utah, when, how, and by what means, the person whose body now lies before you dead, came to his death, and you shall return a true inquest thereof, according to your knowledge and such evidence as shall be laid before you."

§ 406. The coroner may issue subpoenas for witnesses returnable forthwith or at such time and place as he shall direct.

§ 407. An oath to the following effect shall be administered to the witnesses by the coroner:
"You solemnly swear that the evidence you shall give to this inquest concerning the death of the person lying here dead, shall be the truth and nothing but the truth."

§ 408. The testimony of all witnesses examined at any inquest shall be reduced to writing by the coroner, or some other person by his direction, and subscribed by the witnesses respectively giving it in.

§ 409. The jury, upon inspection of the dead body, and after hearing the testimony and making all needful inquiries, shall draw up and deliver to the coroner the inquest under their hands, in which they shall find and certify when, how, and by what means the deceased person came to his death, and his name, if known, together with all the material circumstances attending his death, and if it shall appear that he was murdered, the jurors shall further state who were, if known, or were in any manner the cause of his death, which inquest may be in substance as follows:
Territory of Utah
County of
An inquest taken at in the county of , on the day of A.D. 18, before , coroner of said county, upon the view of the body of, (or a person lying there dead) by the oaths of the jurors whose names are hereto subscribed, who being sworn to inquire on behalf of the territory of Utah, when, how, and by what means the said (or person) came to his death, upon their oaths say (then insert when, how, and by what person means, weapon, or instrument he was killed)
In testimony whereof, the said coroner and jurors of this inquest have hereunto set their hands.
The day and year aforesaid.

§ 410. If the jury find that any murder, manslaughter or assault, has been committed on the deceased, the coroner shall bind over by recognizance such witnesses as he may deem proper, to appear and testify at the next term of the court, at which an indictment for such offense can be found; he shall also return to such court, the finding of the inquest, written evidence and recognizances by him taken, and may commit to the jail of the county any witnesses who shall refuse to recognize in such manner as he shall direct. 

§ 411. If any person charged by the inquest with having committed such offense shall not be in custody, the coroner shall have the same power as a justice of the peace to issue process for his apprehension; and such warrant shall be made returnable before any justice of the peace of the county, who shall proceed therein in the same manner that is required of justices of the peace in like cases. 

§ 412. When any coroner shall be satisfied how, or in what manner, any dead body or person came to their death, it shall not be necessary for him to call an inquest, but to report such facts and information as he is in possession of, to the nearest justice of the peace.

§ 413. It shall be the duty of the coroner to have decently interred any dead body at the expense of the county, if found within his county, provided the estate of the deceased shall be found insufficient. 

§ 414. It shall be the duty of the coroner to summon to his assistance either a surgeon or a physician to assist at said inquest provided said corner shall consider the service of either necessary to a full and fair investigation of the cause of the deceased's death.

Chapter 48. Of sheriffs.

§ 415. At the next general election, and every two years thereafter, there shall be elected by the qualified voters of the several organized counties in this territory, a sheriff who shall hold his office for two years and until his successor is elected and qualified.

§ 416. Every person elected sheriff shall before entering on the duties of his office enter into a bond to his county, in the penal sum of five thousand dollars, with two or more sureties residing in his county, to be approved by the clerk of the county court, conditioned, that he will well and faithfully perform the duties of sheriff to the best of his ability according to laws during his continuance in office, which bond shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the county court. He shall, within twenty days after receiving his certificate of election, take and subscribe an oath, faithfully and diligently to perform the duties of sheriff during his continuance in office, and said oath shall be certified on the back of his certificate of election and filed in the office of the clerk of the county court.

§ 417. The sheriff shall have power, under his hand and seal to appoint one or more deputies who are hereby empowered to perform all the duties devolving on the sheriff of the county and the sheriff shall be responsible for all the acts of his deputies and may remove such deputies at pleasure; but not deputy sheriff shall enter upon the duties of his office until he has taken an oath faithfully and diligently to perform the duties of his office, to the best of his ability; which oath shall be subscribed and certified on the back of his appointment and filed in the office of the county clerk.

§ 418. Every sheriff shall have the custody of the jails and prisons of his county and the prisoners in the same and shall appoint keepers thereof, for whose conduct he shall be responsible and whom he may remove at pleasure and not sheriff or deputy sheriff, coroner, or constable, shall hold any other civil office, except deputy marshal and assessor and collector of taxes, nor be allowed to practice law in any court of which he is an officer.

§ 419. IT shall be the duty of sheriffs to keep and preserve the peace in their respective counties, for which purpose they are empowered to call to their aid such persons or power of their respective counties as they may deem necessary; they shall also pursue and apprehend all felons and persons charged with any crime or misdemeanor and for that purpose may execute any warrant to them directed in any part of this territory; they shall execute all writs and other process, from a justice of the peace, district court, probate court, or other tribunal or person, to them directed by legal authority; they shall also attend at the sessions of the district court, when said court is held in his county.

§ 420. Every sheriff, going out of office at the expiration of his term, and having any writ of execution or fee bill which he may have levied but has not collected shall be and is hereby authorized to proceed and collect such execution or fee bill in the same manner as if his office had not expired.

§ 421. Sheriffs shall receive from any constable or other officer without charge and safely keep in prison all persons lawfully committed to his custody. Provided, that if there be no jail for the confinement of prisoners in the county, or the jail shall be insufficient, it shall be the duty of the sheriff to employ such means as may be necessary, for the safekeeping of all prisoners committed to his custody.

§ 422. Any sheriff or other officer who shall have legally arrested any person in any county in this territory may pass through any other county that may be in the ordinary route of travel, in conveying such prisoner to the place where is to be conveyed according to the command of the process by virtue of which the arrest was made. 

Chapter 49. Of constables.

§ 423. At the next general election and every two years thereafter, there shall be elected by the qualified voters of each precinct, in the several organized counties of this territory, as many constables as there are justices of the peace elected or authorized to be elected in such precinct. 

§ 424. Every person elected a constable shall, within twenty days after receiving his certificate of election take an oath, before any person authorized to administer oaths, that he will faithfully discharge the duties of his office as constable according to the best of his ability. Such oath shall be endorsed on the back of his certificate of election, and filed in the office of the clerk of the county court. 

§ 425. Every person elected to the office of constable shall within the time prescribed for filing his oath of office, enter into a bond to his county with two or more sureties, residents of the county, to be approved by the clerk of the county court, in the sum of one thousand dollars. Conditioned, that he will execute all process to him directed and delivered and pay over all monies received by him by virtue of his office, and discharge all the duties of constable according to law. The clerk shall file the same in his office. 

§ 426. Any constable may, within his county serve any writ, process, or order, of any justice of the peace, judge of probate, coroner, or other tribunal or  person to him directed by legal authority.

Chapter 50. Justices of the peace.

§ 427. At the next general election and every two years thereafter, there shall be elected in each election precinct in the several organized counties in this territory one justice of the peace and the same may be increased in any precinct by the county courts whenever they shall deem that the public good requires it. Provided, that no sheriff, coroner, or clerk of a court shall be eligible to hold such office.

§ 428. Every person elected a justice of the peace shall within twenty days after receiving his certificate of election, take and subscribe an oath before the clerk of the county court, or any person authorized to administer oaths in the county in which he is elected in the following form:
Territory of Utah
County of
I, J.P. do solemnly swear (or affirm as the case may be) that I will support the constitution of the United States and the laws of this territory; that I will administer justice without respect to persons; and faithfully and impartially discharge and perform all duties incumbent upon me as a justice of the peace according to law and the best of my ability. J.P.
Subscribed and sworn to before me this day of A.D. 18, C.D. clerk of the C.C.
Which oath shall be endorsed on the back of the certificate of election and filed in the office of the clerk of the county court of the proper county.

§ 429. Every justice of the peace shall, at the time of filing his oath of office, as provided in the preceding section, give bonds to the people of the county in which he is elected, with two or more sureties, residents of the county, in the sum of one thousand dollars, conditioned that he will faithfully perform the duties of his office, and pay over according to law all monies that may come into his hands by virtue of his office as justice of the peace; which bond shall be approved by the clerk of the county court, and filed in his office and may be in the following form:
Know all men by these presents, that we, J.P. A.D. and C.D.; are held and firmly bound unto the people of the county of , in the territory of Utah, in the sum of one thousand dollars, for the payment of which we jointly and severally bind ourselves, our heirs, executors, and administrators, sealed with our seals and dated with day of A.D. 18.
Whereas the said J.P. has been duly elected a justice of the peace in and for the precinct of in the county of and territory of Utah, on the day of A.D. 18. Now the conditions of the above obligation are such, that if the said J.P. shall faithfully perform the duties of his office, and pay over according to law all monies which shall come into his hands by virtue of his office of justice of the peace, then this obligation shall be void, otherwise to remain in full force and effect. J.P. A.B. C.D.

§ 430. Every person aggrieved by reason of a breach of the conditions of such bond, may by an action upon the bond, have judgment against the justice and his sureties for such sum as he may show himself entitled to, with costs. 

Chapter 51. Jurisdiction of justices of the peace.

§ 431. The jurisdiction of justices of the peace shall be co-extensive with the limits of their respective counties and no other, unless otherwise expressly provided by statute. 

§ 432. All actions before a justice of the peace shall be brought in the precinct in which the defendant resides; but a justice may issue process in any place in the county.

§ 433. Every justice of the peace shall keep his office in the precinct in which he may be elected, and not elsewhere.

§ 434. Justices of the peace shall have jurisdiction in all civil cases, where the amount in controversy does not exceed one hundred dollars and when the amount claimed exceeds that sum, but by fair credits may be reduced to that amount, except when the title or boundaries of land may be in dispute, and except when otherwise provided by statute. 

§ 435. Every justice of the peace shall hold his office for the term of two years and until his successor is elected and qualified.

§ 436. If any justice of the peace shall die, resign, or move out of the precinct, for which he was elected, or his term of office be in any other manner terminated, all dockets, books, records and papers appertaining to his office, or relating to any suit, matter or controversy committed to him in his official capacity, shall be transmitted to his successor in office, who shall thereupon proceed to hear, try, and determine such matter, suit or controversy; or issue execution thereon, in the same manner as if such matter or suit had been commenced before him. 

Chapter 52. Of actions, service, and return of process.

§ 437. Every justice of the peace shall keep a docket, in which he shall enter:
1. The titles of all actions commenced before him.
2. The object of the action or proceeding; and if a sum of money be claimed, the amount of the demand.
3. The date of the summons, or other process and the time of its return, and if a writ of attachment be issued, a statement of these facts.
4. The time when the parties, or either of them appear or their non-appearance if default be made.
5. A brief statement of the nature of the plaintifff's demand and the amount claimed and if any set-off be pleaded, a similar statement of the set-off and the amount estimated.
6. Every adjournment, stating at whose request, and for what time.
7. The demand of a trial by jury, when the same is made, and by whom made, the order for the jury, and the time appointed for the trial, and return of the jury. 
8. The names of the jurors who appear and are sworn; the names of all witnesses and at whose request.
9. The verdict of the jury, and when received; if the jury disagree and are discharged, the fact of such disagreement and discharge.
10. The judgment of the court and the time when determined.
11. The time of issuing execution, and the name of the officer to whom delivered and an account of the debt and costs, and the fee due to each person.
12. The fact of an appeal having been taken and the time when.
13. Satisfaction of the judgment, or any money paid thereon, and the time when.
14. And such other entries as may be material. 

§ 438. Actions may be instituted before a justice of the peace, either by the voluntary appearance and agreement of the parties, or by the usual process. 

§ 439. Whenever the plaintifff is a non-resident of the county, the justice may require of him security for the costs, before the commencement of the action; and whenever an action has been commenced by any person whether a resident of the county or not, the justice may, in his discretion, order the plaintifff to give security for the costs; and if the plaintifff refuse to comply with the order, the justice shall dismiss the action.

§ 440. All process issued by a justice of the peace, shall run in the name of the people of the territory of Utah, be dated the day it is issued, and shall be signed by the justice granting the same. 

§ 441. In all cases not otherwise specially provided for, the first process shall be a summons directed to the sheriff or constable and commanding him to summon the defendant to appear before such justice, at a time and place named in the summons, not less than six, nor more than twenty days from the date thereof, to answer the complaint of the plaintifff.

§ 442. The summons shall be served at least five days before the time of appearance therein mentioned, but delivering a copy thereof, together with a copy of the complaint, as follows:
1. If the action be against a corporation, to the president or other head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof. 
2. If against a person judicially declared of an unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs and for whom a guardian has been appointed, to such guardian, and to the defendant personally.
3. In all other cases, to the defendant personally or if he be not found, to some white person of the family above the age of fourteen years, at the dwelling house or usual place of abode of defendant. 

§ 443. Every constable or sheriff serving any process shall return thereon, in writing, the time and manner of service, and shall sign his name to such return. 

§ 444. If any officer, without showing good cause thereforee, fail to execute any process to him delivered and make due return thereof, or make a false return, such officer, for every such offense, shall pay to the party injured ten dollars and all damages such party may have sustained by reason thereof, to be recovered in a civil action founded upon this statute. 

§ 445. Parties in justices courts may prosecute and defend in person or by attorney, and any person may act as attorney in justices courts, except that the constable or sheriff by whom the summons or jury process was served cannot appear or act on the trial in behalf of either party. 

§ 446. No action shall be commenced by an infant plaintifff except by his guardian or until a next friend for such infant shall have been appointed. Whenever requested the justice shall appoint some suitable person, who shall consent thereto in writing, to be named by such plaintifff to act as his next friend in such action, and who shall be responsible for the costs therein.

§ 447. After the service and return of process, against an infant defendant, the action shall not be further prosecuted until a guardian shall have been appointed. Upon the request of such defendant, the justice shall appoint some person, who shall consent thereto in writing, to be guardian of the defendant in defense of the action, and if the defendant shall not appear on the return day of the process, or if he neglect or refuse to nominate such guardian, the justice may appoint any discreet person as such guardian. The consent of the guardian or next friend, shall be filed with the justice, and such guardian for the defendant shall not be liable for any costs in the action. 

§ 448. The parties, in all actions, shall be entitled to one hour in which to make their appearance, after the time mentioned in the summons for appearance; but shall not be required to remain longer than that time, unless both parties appear, and the justice being present is actually engaged in the trial of another action or proceeding in such case he may postpone the time of appearance until the close of such trial. 

Chapter 53. Pleadings and adjournments.

§ 449. The pleadings in justices courts shall be:
1. The complaint of the plaintifff which shall state in a plain and direct manner the facts constituting the cause of action, and a demand of the relief sought, and if money the amount.
2. The answer of the defendant, which shall contain an admission or denial of each allegation set forth in the complaint. Also a statement in a plain and direct manner of any facts constituting a defense, not admitted in the complaint. 
3. The reply of the plaintifff when the answer sets up any new matter, or set-off by way of defense.

§ 450. Every complaint, answer, or reply shall be verified by the oath of the party pleading; or if he be not present, by the oath of his attorney or agent, to the effect that he believes it to be true.

§ 451. Every material allegation in a complaint or relating to a set-off in an answer not denied by the pleading of the adverse party shall on the trial be taken to be true, except that when a defendant who has not been served with a copy of the complaint fails to appear, and answer, the plaintifff cannot recover without proving his case. 

§ 452. Either party may demur to any pleading of the adverse party, or any part thereof, where it appears either that the court has not jurisdiction of the subject matter; that the plaintifff has no legal capacity to sue; that there is another action pending between the same parties for the same cause; that there is a legal defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant, when by a fair construction it contains no cause of action or defense. Upon the determination of a demurrer, the party failing may amend or plead upon such terms as the court may deem just.

§ 453. When the pleadings of the parties shall have taken place, the justice shall, upon the application of either party, or sufficient cause be shown on oath, adjourn the case for any time not exceeding sixty days. If the adjournment be on account of the absence of testimony, it shall be for such reasonable time as will enable the party to procure such testimony, and shall be at the cost of the party applying thereforee, unless otherwise ordered by the justice. 

§ 454. An adjournment on account of the absence of testimony shall only be allowed upon showing the materiality of the testimony expected to be obtained and that due diligence has been used to obtain it. The justice may also require the party applying to state upon oath the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if the adverse party thereupon admit that such evidence would be given, and that it be considered as actually given on the trial, or offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall not be postponed.

§ 455. The party applying for the adjournment shall also, if required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of such adverse party who is in attendance be then taken by deposition before the justice, which shall be done accordingly; and the testimony so taken, may be read on the trial with the same effects and subject to the same objections as if the witness were produced. 

Chapter 54. Of witnesses and depositions.

§ 456. A subpoena issued by a justice of the peace, shall be valid to compel the attendance of a witness in a justices court, if such witness be within the county.

§ 457. A subpoena may be served by any white person above the age of eighteen years, by reading it to the witness or by delivering to him a copy thereof, if he request it, or by leaving a copy at his usual place of abode. 

§ 458. Whenever it shall appear to the satisfaction of the justice, by proof made before him, that any person duly subpoenaed to appear before him in an action, shall have failed without a just cause to attend as a witness in conformity to such subpoena, and the party in whose behalf such subpoena was issued, his agent or attorney shall make oath that the testimony of such witness is material the justice shall have power to issue and attachment to compel the attendance of such witness. Provided, that no attachment shall issue against a witness unless his fees for mileage and one day's attendance have been tendered or paid in advance, if previously demanded by such witness from the person serving the subpoena.

§ 459. Every such attachment shall be directed to any sheriff or constable of the county in which the justice resides and shall be executed in the same manner as a warrant; and the fees of the officers for issued and serving the same shall be paid by the person against whom the same was issued, unless he show reasonable cause to the satisfaction of the justice for his non-attendance, in which case, the party requiring such attachment shall pay all such costs. 

§ 460. Every person subpoenaed as aforesaid and neglecting to appear, shall also be liable to the party in whose behalf he may have been subpoenaed, for all damages which such party may have sustained by reason of his non-appearance; provided, that such witness had the fees allowed for mileage and one day's attendance paid or tendered to him in advance.

§ 461. A party to an action may be examined as a witness at the instance of the adverse party, and for that purpose may be compelled in the same manner and subject to the same rules of examination as any other witness to testify at the trial or appear and have his deposition taken.

§ 462. The examination of a party, thus taken may be rebutted by adverse testimony.

§ 463. If a party refuse to attend and testify at the trial, or give his deposition before trial, when required, his complaint, answer, or reply may be stricken out and judgment taken against him.

§ 464. A party examined by an adverse party may be examined on his own behalf, in respect to any matter pertinent to the issue. But if he testify to any new matter not responsive to the inquiries put to him by the adverse party, or necessary to qualify or explain his answer thereto, or to discharge, when his answer would charge himself, such adverse party may offer himself as a witness and he shall be so received.

§ 465. Either party in an action before a justice of the peace may cause the deposition of a witness therein to be taken, when such witness resides or is about to go out of the county, or is sick, infirm, or aged, so as to make it probable that he will not be able to attend at the trial.

§ 466. The notice shall be served and the deposition taken, certified, and returned according to the law regulating the taking of depositions, to be read in the district or probate courts.

§ 467. The justice shall allow every deposition taken, certified, and returned according to law, to be read on the trial of the cause in which it is taken, in all cases where the same testimony, if given verbally before him, could have been received; but no such deposition shall be read on the trial, unless it appears to the justice, that the witness whose deposition is so offered:
1. Is dead, or resides beyond the limits of the county.
2. Is unable, or cannot safely attend before the justice, on account of sickness, age, or other bodily infirmity, or 
3. That he has gone beyond the limits of the county, without the consent or collusion of the party offering the deposition.

Chapter 55. Trial by jury.

§ 468. Before the justice shall commence an investigation of the merits of a cause by an examination of the witnesses or the hearing of any other testimony, either of the parties may demand of the justice that the cause be tried by a jury. 

§ 469. The jury shall consist of six persons, unless the parties agree upon a less number.

§ 470. The justice shall issue a venire, directed to the sheriff or any constable of the county where the cause is to be tried, commanding him to summon six (or such number as the parties may have agreed upon) good and lawful men of the county, qualified to serve as jurors who shall be no wise of kin to either party, not interested in the action, to appear before said justice at a time and place named therein, to make a jury for the trial of the cause between the parties therein named. 

§ 471. The sheriff or constable shall execute the venire fairly and impartially and shall not summon any person whom he has reason to believe is biased or prejudiced for or against either of the parties; he shall summon the jurors personally and shall make a list of the persons which he shall certify and annex to the venire and return to the justice. If a sufficient number of competent jurors cannot be obtained from the panel returned, the sheriff or constable shall immediately summon others to serve in their place.

§ 472. Either party may challenge the jurors; but, when there are several parties on either side; they shall join in a challenge before it can be made. The challenges shall be to individual jurors and shall be peremptory or for cause. Each party shall be entitled to two preemptory challenges. 

§ 473. Challenges for cause may be taken on any ground that would be a good cause of challenge on the trial of an action in the district or probate courts. Challenges for cause shall be tried by the justice. 

§ 474. When the jury is selected, the justice shall administer to them the following oath or affirmation:
You and each of you do swear (or affirm) that you will well and truly try the matter of difference between A.B. plaintifff and C.D. defendant and a true verdict give, according to law and the evidence given to you in court.

§ 475. After the jury are sworn, they shall sit together and hear the allegations and proofs of the parties which shall be delivered publicly in their presence. 

§ 476. When the jury have agreed on their verdict, they shall deliver the same in writing to the justice, publicly who shall enter it on his docket. 

§ 477. Whenever a justice shall be satisfied that a jury sworn in any civil cause before him have been out a reasonable time, cannot agree on their verdict he may discharge them, and issue a new venire, unless the parties consent that the justice may render judgment on the evidence before him, or upon such other evidence as they may produce.

§ 478. Every person who shall be duly summoned as a juror and shall not appear nor render a reasonable excuse for his default, shall be subject to a fine not exceeding ten dollars.

Chapter 56. Of judgment.

§ 479. Judgment that the action be dismissed without prejudice to a new action may be entered with costs in the following cases:
1. When the plaintifff voluntarily dismisses the action before it is finally submitted.
2. When he fails to appear at the time specified in the summons, or upon adjournment, or within one hour thereafter.

§ 480. When the defendant fails to appear and answer at the time specified in the summons, or within one hour thereafter, judgment shall be given as follows:
1. In all actions upon a contract for a sum certain and the defendant has been served with a copy of the complaint, judgment shall be given, without further evidence for the sum specified therein.
2. In other cases the justice shall hear the evidence of the plaintifff and render judgment for such sum only as appears by the evidence to be just; but in no case exceeding the amount specified in the complaint.

§ 481. Upon issue joined, if a jury trial be not demanded, the justice shall hear the evidence, and decide all questions of law and fact and render the judgment accordingly.

§ 482. Upon the verdict of a jury, the justice shall immediately render judgment thereon. When the trial is by the justice, judgment shall be entered within three days after the close of the trial.

§ 483. If the defendant at any time before the trial offer, in writing, to allow judgment to be taken against him for a specified sum, the plaintifff may immediately have judgment thereforee, with the costs then accrued, but if he do not accept such offer before the trial, and fail to recover in the action, a sum greater than the offer, such plaintifff shall not recover any costs that may accrue after he shall have been notified of the offer of the defendant, but such costs shall be adjudged against him, and if he recover, deducted from the judgment; but the offer and failure to accept it shall not be given in evidence to affect the recovery, otherwise as to costs as above provided. 

Chapter 57. Stay of execution.

§ 484. The execution upon a judgment by a justice of the peace may be stayed in the manner hereinafter provided, upon reasonable notice to the opposite party, and for the following periods of time, to be calculated from the date of the judgment:
1. If the judgment be for any sum not exceeding twenty-five dollars, exclusive of costs, one month.
2. If it be for more than twenty-five dollars and less than fifty dollars, two months.
3. If for more than fifty dollars, three months.

§ 485. To entitle any person to such stay of execution, some responsible person, to be approved by the justice, and not being a party to the judgment, must within five days after the rendition of the judgment, enter into an undertaking to the adverse party in a sum sufficient to secure the payment of the judgment and costs, conditioned, to be void, upon such payment at the expiration of the stay. 

§ 486. Such undertaking shall be signed by the person entering into the same, and may be in the following form:
Whereas, A.B. has obtained a judgment before J.P. one of the justices of the peace, in and for county on the day of 18, against C.D. for dollars; now thereforee I, E.F. acknowledge myself bound to A.B. in the sum of dollars, this undertaking to be void, if such judgment shall be paid at the expiration of months after the time it was rendered, Dated the day of 18. E.F.

§ 487. If at the expiration of such stay, the judgment be not paid, the execution shall issue against both the principal and surety, if the principal do not satisfy the execution and the officer cannot find sufficient property belonging to him, upon which to levy, he shall levy upon the property of the surety, and in his return shall state what amount of money collected by him on the execution was collected from the surety, and the time when the same was received. 

§ 488. After the return of such execution, the surety shall be entitled on application to the justice, to have the judgment or so much thereof as may have been collected from him in satisfaction of the execution, transferred to his use.

§ 489. If a judgment be stayed, in the manner above provided, after an execution has been issued, thereon, the justice shall revoke such execution in the same manner and with the like effect as he is hereinafter directed to revoke an execution after an appeal has been allowed. 

Chapter 58. Of executions. 

§ 490. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment in a justices court may be issued on the application of the party entitled thereto.

§ 491. When any judgment shall have been rendered by any justice of the peace and the same shall not be satisfied during his continuance in office, and the docket of such justice shall have been transferred to another justice or to the successor of the justice rendering such judgment, the justice to whom the docket shall be delivered shall issue execution upon such unsatisfied judgment in the same manner and with the like effect as if he himself had rendered the judgment. 

§ 492. If the defendant have not goods and chattels in the county in which judgment was rendered sufficient to satisfy the execution, the justice before whom such judgment may be shall at the request of the party entitled make out a certified transcript of the same, which may be delivered to a justice in any other county, who shall make an entry thereof in his docket, and issue execution thereon for the amount of the judgment, or such part as shall be unsatisfied with costs, as in other cases. 

§ 493. The execution shall be directed to the sheriff or any constable of the county, where the justice resides, shall be dated on the day it is issued, and made returnable within thirty days from the date, and shall be against the goods and chattels of the person against whom the same is issued.

§ 494. Before any execution shall be delivered, the justice shall state in his docket and also on the back of the execution the amount of the judgment and costs and of the fees due to each person separately and the officer receiving such execution shall endorse thereon, the time of the reception of the same. 

§ 495. If an execution be not satisfied, it may, at the request of the plaintifff be renewed from time to time, by the justice who issued the same, or the justice to whom his docket is transferred by an endorsement thereon to that effect, signed by him and dated when the same shall be made. If any part of such execution has been satisfied, the endorsement of renewal shall express the sum due on the execution. Every such endorsements shall renew the execution in full force, in all respects for thirty days and no longer, and an entry of such renewal shall be made in the docket of the justice. 

§ 496. The officer, after taking goods and chattels into his custody, by virtue of an execution shall without delay give public notice, but at least three advertisements, put up at three public places in the county of the time and place they will be exposed to sale; such notice shall describe specifically the goods and chattels taken and shall be put up at least ten days before the day of sale.

§ 497. At the time and place so appointed, the officer shall expose the goods and chattels to sale at public vendue to the highest bidder; he shall return the execution and have the money before the justice at the time of making such return ready to be paid over to the persons respectively entitled thereto.

§ 498. No officer shall, directly or indirectly purchase any goods or chattels at any sale made by him upon execution; and every such purchase shall be absolutely void.

§ 499. Any justice of the peace may issue an execution against the plaintifff to collect fees and costs, after an execution has been first issued against the defendant, and returned "no property found." 

Chapter 59. Contempts before justices.

§ 500. In the following cases, and not others, a justice of the peace may punish for contempts:
1. Persons guilty of disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior towards such justice, while engaged in the trial of a cause, or in rendering judgment or in any judicial proceeding; which tends to interrupt such proceedings, or impair the respect due his authority.
2. Persons guilty of any breach of the peace, noise, or disturbance, tending to interrupt the official proceedings of such justice.
3. Persons guilty of resistance, or disobedience to any lawful order or process made or issued by him.

§ 501. Punishment for contempt may be by fine, not exceeding twenty-five dollars or by imprisonment in the county jail, not exceeding two days, at the discretion of the justice, unless otherwise provided by statute.

§ 502. No person shall be punished for a contempt before a justice until an opportunity shall have been given to him to be heard in his defense; and for that purpose the justice may issue his warrant to bring the offender before him.

§ 503. If the offender be present, he may be summarily arraigned by the justice and proceeded against in the same manner as if a warrant had been previously issued, and the offender arrested thereon.

§ 504. The warrant for contempt may be in the following form:
Territory of Utah
County of
To the sheriff or any constable of said county: In the name of the people of the territory of Utah you are hereby commanded to apprehend A.B. and bring him before J.P. one of the justices of the peace of said county, at his office in said county to show cause why he should not be convicted for a contempt, alleged to have been committed on the day of A.D. 18 before the said justice while engaged as a justice of the peace in judicial proceedings. Dated this day of A.D. 18. 
J.P. Justice of the Peace

§ 505. Upon the conviction of any person for contempt, an entry thereof shall be made in the docket of such justice, stating the particular circumstances of the offense, and the judgment rendered thereon, and may be in the following form:
Territory of Utah
County of
Whereas on the day of A.D. 18 while the undersigned one of the justices of the peace of the said county, was engaged in the trial of an action between C.D. plaintifff and E.F. defendant in said county. A.B. of the said county did interrupt the said proceedings and impair the respect due to the authority of the undersigned by (here describe the cause particularly) and whereas the said A.B. was thereupon required by the undersigned to answer for the said contempt and show cause why he should not be convicted thereof; and whereas the said A.B. did not show cause against the said charge; Therefore the said A.B. is adjudged to be guilty and is convicted of the contempt aforesaid and is adjudged by the undersigned to pay a fine of dollars (or be imprisoned, etc.) dated this day of A.D. 18. J.P. Justice of the Peace.

§ 506. If any person convicted of contempt be adjudged to be imprisoned, a warrant of commitment shall be issued by the justice. If he be adjudged to pay a fine, execution may be issued to collect the same and when so collected, it shall forthwith be paid by the justice into the county treasury. 

Chapter 60. Of appeals from justices courts.

§ 507. Any person considering himself aggrieved by any judgment or decision of a justice of the peace, except judgment by confession, may in person or by his agent appeal therefrom to the district or probate court, of the same district or county when the judgment was rendered or the decision made. 

§ 508. Such appeal shall be taken within twenty days after the judgment is rendered or the decision made, and shall be by filing a notice of appeal with the justice and serving a copy on the adverse party or his attorney. 

§ 509. No appeal shall be had in any case, unless a written undertaking shall be executed on the part of the appellant with one or more sureties to be approved by the justice, in a sum equal to twice the amount of the judgment, to the effect that the appellant will pay the costs and judgment provided the judgment appealed from be affirmed; or, if affirmed only in part, then to the extent in which it may be affirmed. 

§ 510. Upon an appeal being taken, and an undertaking filed, as above provided, the justice shall make an entry of such appeal in his docket; and all further proceedings on the judgment before the justice, shall thereupon be suspended, and if, in the mean time, execution shall have been issued, the justice shall give the appellant a certificate that the appeal has been allowed.

§ 511. On such certificate being presented to the officer holding the execution, he shall forthwith release the property of the defendant that may have been taken on execution. 

§ 512. Within ten days after taking the appeal, as aforesaid, the justice shall file in the office of the clerk of the court appealed to a full and complete transcript of the entries made in his docket, in the case together with all process and other papers relating to the action, except subpoenas and filed with the justice, which shall be certified by such justice to be correct; and upon the filing of such transcript, the court shall become possessed of the cause, and shall proceed in the same manner as near as may be, as in actions originally commenced in that court, except as otherwise provided.

§ 513. The issues before the justice shall be tried without other or new pleadings, unless otherwise directed by the court.

§ 514. Upon an appeal being taken, the court may by rule and attachment, compel the justice to make and deliver to the appellant a certified transcript of the proceedings upon paying to such justice the fees allowed by law for making such transcript, and whenever the court is satisfied that the return of the justice is substantially erroneous or defective, it may by rule and attachment compel him to amend the same. 

§ 515. In all cases of appeal, if on the trial the judgment be against the appellant, in whole or in part, such judgment shall be rendered against him, and his sureties in the undertaking for the appeal.

Chapter 61. Of search warrants.

§ 516. When complaint shall have been made on oath to any magistrate authorized to issue warrants in criminal cases that personal property has been stolen, or embezzled, or obtained by false tokens or pretenses, and that the complainant believes that it is concealed in any particular house or place the magistrate if he be satisfied that there is reasonable cause for such belief, shall issue his warrant to search for such property. 

§ 517. Any such magistrate, when satisfied that there is reasonable cause, may also upon like complaint made on oath, issue search warrant in the following cases:
1. To search for and seize any counterfeit or spurious coin, forged bank notes, and other forged instruments or tools, machines or materials, prepared or provided for making either of them.
2. To search for and seize any gaming apparatus or implements used or kept and to be used in unlawful gaming in any gaming house, or in any building apartment or place resorted to, for the purpose of unlawful gaming. 

§ 518. All such warrants shall be directed to the sheriff of the county, or his deputy, or to any constable of the county, commanding such officer to search the house or place where the stolen property, or other things for which he is required to search are believed to be concealed, which place and property or things to be searched for, shall be designated and described in the warrant and to bring such stolen property or other things, when found, and the person in whose possession the same shall be found, before the magistrate who issued the warrant, or before some other magistrate having cognizance of the case. 

§ 519. When any officer, in the execution of a search warrant, shall find any stolen or embezzled property, or shall seize any other things for which a search is allowed by this chapter, all such property and things so seized shall be safely kept by the direction of the magistrate, so long as shall be necessary for the purpose of being produced in evidence on any trial, and as soon as may be afterwards all such stolen and embezzled property shall be restored to the owner thereof. 

Chapter 62. Proceedings to prevent commission of crimes.

§ 520. The judges of the district courts in their respective districts and judges of the probate courts and justices of the peace in their respective counties shall have power to cause all laws made for the preservation of the public peace to be kept and in the execution of that power may require persons to give security to keep the peace, or for their good behavior, or both, in the manner provided in this chapter. 

§ 521. Whenever complaint shall be made to any such magistrate, that any person has threatened to commit an offense against the person or property of another, the magistrate shall examine the complaint and any witness who may be produced on oath, and reduce such complaint to writing and cause the same to be subscribed by the complainant. 

§ 522. If upon examination it shall appear that there is just cause to fear that such offense may be committed, the magistrate shall issue a warrant, under his hand, reciting the substance of the complaint, and requiring the officer to whom it may be directed forthwith to apprehend the person complained of and bring him before such magistrate or some other magistrate having jurisdiction of the cause. 

§ 523. The magistrate before whom any person is brought upon charge of having made threats as aforesaid, shall as soon as may be examine the complaint and the witnesses to support the prosecution on oath in the presence of the party charged in relation to any matters connected with such charge. 

§ 524. After the testimony to support the prosecution is heard, the witnesses for the prisoner shall be sworn and examined. 

§ 525. If upon examination it shall appear that there is just cause to believe that there will be any such offense committed by the party complained of, he shall be required to enter into recognizance with sufficient sureties in such sum as the magistrate shall direct, to keep the peace towards all the people of this territory and especially towards the person requiring such security, for such term as the magistrate shall order, not exceeding six months.

§ 526. If the person so ordered to recognize shall refuse or neglect to comply with such order, the magistrate shall commit him to the county jail during the period for which he was required to give security, or until he shall so recognize, stating in the warrant the cause of commitment, with the sum and time for which security was required. 

§ 527. If upon examination, it shall not appear that there is just cause to believe that any such offense will be committed by the party complained of, he shall be forthwith discharged and if the magistrate shall deem the complaint unfounded, frivolous, or malicious, he shall order the complainant to pay the costs of the prosecution and execution may issue thereforee. 

§ 528. When no order respecting the costs is made by the magistrate, they shall be allowed and paid in the same manner as costs before justices in criminal prosecutions; but in all cases where a person is required to give security for the peace, or for his good behavior, the magistrate may further order the costs of prosecution or any part thereof to be paid by such person who shall stand committed until such costs are paid or he is otherwise legally discharged. 

§ 529. Any person committed for not finding sureties or refusing to recognize as required by the magistrate, may be discharged by any magistrate having jurisdiction on giving such security as was required. 

§ 530. Every recognizance taken in pursuance of the foregoing provision shall be transmitted by the magistrate to the court having cognizance of the offense, on or before the first day of the next term, and shall be there filed of record by the clerk. 

§ 531. Whenever a suit brought on any such recognizance and the penalty thereof shall be adjudged forfeited, the court may permit such portion of the penalty on the petition of any defendant as the circumstances of the case shall render just and reasonable. 

§ 532. Any surety in a recognizance to keep the peace, or for good behavior, or both, shall have the authority and right at any time to take and surrender his principal to the sheriff of the county and upon such surrender, shall be discharged and exempted from all liability for any act of the principal, subsequent to such surrender, which would be a breach of the condition of the recognizance; and the person so surrendered, may recognize anew with sufficient sureties, before any justice of the peace of the county for the residue of the term, and thereupon shall be discharged.

Chapter 63. Arrests.

§ 533. Arrest is the taking a person into custody, that he may be held to answer for a public offense.

§ 534. An arrest may be either by a peace officer under a warrant, or without a warrant, or by a private person.

§ 535. Every person shall aid an officer in the execution of a warrant if the officer require his aid, and be present and acting in its execution.

§ 536. An arrest is made by an actual restraint of the person of the defendant, or by his submission to the custody of the officer.

§ 537. If any person, against whom a warrant may be issued for an alleged offense, committed in any county shall either before or after the issuing such warrant escape from or be out of the county, the sheriff, or other officer to whom such warrant may be directed may pursue and apprehend the party charged in any county in this territory and for that purpose may command aid, and exercise the same authority as in his own county.

§ 538. A peace officer, or a private person may without a warrant arrest a person for a public offense, committed or attempted in his presence.

§ 539. If a person arrested escape or be rescued, the person from whose custody he escaped or was rescued may immediately pursue and retake him at any time and in any place in the territory without a warrant. 

Chapter 64. Examination of offenders, commitment and bail.

§ 540. For the apprehension of persons charged with offenses, the judges of the district courts in their respective districts and probate judges and justices of the peace, in their respective counties are authorized to issue process to carry into effect the provisions of this chapter.

§ 541. Upon complaint being made to any such magistrate that a criminal offense has been committed, he shall examine on oath the complainant and any witness provided by him, and shall reduce the complaint to writing, and shall cause the same to be subscribed by the complainant; and if it shall appear that any such offense has been committed, the magistrate shall issue a warrant reciting the substance of the accusation, and requiring the officer to whom it shall be directed, forthwith to take the person accused and bring him before the said magistrate, or before some other magistrate of the county, to be dealt with according to law, and in the same warrant may require the officer to summon such witnesses as shall be therein named, to appear and give evidence on the examination. 

§ 542. If it shall appear that an offense has been committed, and that there is probable cause to believe the prisoner guilty, and if the offense be bailable and the prisoner offer sufficient bail, or the amount of money in lieu thereof, it shall be taken and the prisoner discharged but if no sufficient bail be offered, or the offense be not bailable, the prisoner shall be committed for trial.

§ 543. When a magistrate admits a prisoner to bail, or commits him, he shall also bind by recognizance such witnesses against the prisoner as he shall deem material to appear and testify at the next court having cognizance of the offense, and in which the prisoner shall be held to answer.

§ 544. If the magistrate shall be satisfied, that there is good cause to believe that any such witness will not perform the condition of his recognizance unless other security be given, such magistrate may order the witness to enter into a recognizance with such sureties as may be deemed necessary for his appearance at court.

§ 545. All witnesses required to recognize, either with or without sureties, shall if they refuse be committed to prison by the magistrate there to remain until they comply with such order, or be otherwise discharged according to law.

§ 546. Any person committed for not finding sufficient sureties may be admitted to bail by any magistrate having cognizance of the offense.

§ 547. Any magistrate to whom complaint is made, or before whom any prisoner is brought may associate with himself one or more magistrates of the same county; and they may together execute the powers and duties before mentioned, but no fees shall be taxed for such associates. 

§ 548. The testimony of the witnesses examined shall be reduced to writing by the magistrate or under his direction when he shall think it necessary, and shall be signed by the witness if required by the magistrate.

§ 549. All examinations and recognizances, taken by any magistrate in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, shall be certified and returned by him to the prosecuting attorney or the clerk of the court before which the party charged is bound to appear on or before the first day of the sitting thereof; and if such magistrate shall neglect or refuse to return the same, he may be compelled forthwith, by rule of court, and in case of disobedience, may be proceeded against by attachment as for contempts. 

§ 550. When any person shall be committed to prison, or shall be under recognizance to answer any charge for a misdemeanor, for which the party injured may have a remedy by a civil action, except when the offense was committed upon a sheriff or other officer of justice, or riotously or with intent to commit a felony, if the party injured shall appear before the magistrate who made the commitment, or took the recognizance and acknowledged in writing that he has received satisfaction for the injury, the magistrate may in his discretion, on payment of all costs with may have accrued, discharge the recognizances, or supersede the commitment by an order under his hand; and may also discharge all recognizances and supersede the commitment of all witnesses in the case. 

§ 551. Every such order of the magistrate, discharging the recognizance of the party or witness shall be filed in the office of the clerk before the sitting of the court before which they are bound to appear and every order superseding the commitment of the party charged or of any witnesses shall be delivered to the keeper of the jail in which he is confined, who shall forthwith discharge him; and every such order, if so filed and delivered, and not otherwise, shall forever bar all remedy by civil action for such injury.

§ 552. When any person under recognizance in any criminal prosecution either to appear in answer or testify in any court, shall fail to perform the condition of any such recognizance, his default shall be recorded and process shall be issued against the persons bound by the recognizance. 

§ 553. When any action is brought in the name of the territory, against a principal or surety in any recognizance entered into either by a party or a witness in any criminal prosecution and the penalty of such recognizance shall be adjudged forfeited, the court may on application of any party defendant, remit any part or the whole of such penalty and may render judgment thereon according to the circumstances of the case, and the situation of the party and upon such terms and conditions as to such court shall seem just and reasonable.

§ 554. No such action brought on a recognizance as mentioned in the preceding section shall be barred or defeated nor shall judgment be arrested thereon, by reason of any neglect or omission to note or record the default of any principal or surety; at the term when such default shall happen, not by reason of any such defect in the form of the recognizance, if it sufficiently appear from the tenor thereof, at what court the party or witness was bound to appear, and that the magistrate before whom it was taken, was authorized by law to require and take such recognizance. 

§ 555. The magistrate while examining any witness may exclude from the place of examination all the other witnesses; he may also direct the witnesses for or against the prisoner to be kept separate so that they cannot converse with each other until they shall have been examined.

§ 556. Persons charged with an offense punishable with death, shall not be admitted to bail where the proof is evident or the presumption great; but for all other offenses, bail may be taken in such sum as in the opinion of the magistrate will secure the appearance of the person charged with the offense at the court where such person is to be tried.  




