WHEN WRITTEN EVIDENCE 18 REQUIRED TO MAINTAIN ACTIONS; AND 
s. 
OF SCROLLS BY WAY OF SEAL. 
1. When written evidence required. 
CHAPTER CXIJII. 
I ~ "When a scroll la good by way of eeal. 
I. No action shall be brought in any of the following cases:
First. To charge any person upon or by reason of a representation or 
aHurance concerning the character, conduct, c~dit, ability, trade or
dealings of another, to the intent or purpose that such other may obtain
t}lereby credit, money or goods; or, 
Secondly. To charge any person upon a promise made, after full age,
to pay a debt contracted during infancy, or upon a ratification after full
age of a promise or simple contract made during infancy ; or, 
Thirdly. To charge a personal representative upon a promise to
answer any debt or damages out of his own estate; or, 
Fourthly. To charge any person upon a promise to answer for the
debt, default or misdoings of another; or, 
Fifthly. Upon any agreement made upon consideration of marriage;
or, 
Sixthly. Upon any contract for the sale of real estate.] or the lease
thereof for more than a year; or, 
Seventhly. Upon any agreement that is not to be performed within a 
year;
Unless the promise, contract, agreement, representation, assurance or 
ratification, or some memorandum or note thereof, be in writing, and
signed by the party to be charged thereby, or his agent. But the consideration need not be set forth or expressed in the writing ; and it may 
be proved (where a consideration is necessary). by other evidence.
t2. Any writing, to which the person making it shall affix a scroll by 
way of seal, shall be of the same force as if it were actually sealed. 
CHAPTER CXLIV. 
OF BILLS, NOTES, BONDS, ASSIGNMENTS AND OTHER WR1TINGS.
Su. Sec. 
I. Generalandqnallftcdacceptances. When 9. Damages on bills,
preaentment necessary at place specl- 10. t On wha, writings actlon of debt may be 
fled for payment. 11. 5 brought, and against whom.
t
2o} When blll to be presented and protested i 12. Writing payable to a dead person, 
13. Writing binding persons jointly.
6. and notice or dlshonor given 14. } A1eignee11 may 11l1e In their own name ; 
7. What notes, bills, &c. negotiable. 15. how B1111ignoe may sue a11Blgnor. Ju- 
e. Of what protest 11 evidence. 16. riadlction in equity. 
Of bills and notes.
I. If a person accept a bill of exchange, payable at the house of o. 
banker or other place, without further expression in his acceptance, such
acceptance shall be deemed a general acceptance, and the presentment
of the bill for payment mn.y be either at such place, or as it might have
been if no such place had been specified in the acceptance. If an acceptor shall, in his acceptance, express that he accepts the bill, payable
at a banker's house or other place only, and not otherwise or elsewhere,
such acceptance shall be deemed a qualified acceptance, and in such 08.il6 
the presentment of the bill for payment shall be at the place specified in 
such qualified acceptance. But as against the maker of o. note or the ae
ceptor of a bill, whether the acceptance be general or qualified, it shall
not be necessary to aver or prove presentment for payment at the time or
place specified in the note. bill or acceptance. Such maker or acceptor
may, however, set up, as a matter of defense, any loss sustained by him,
by reason of the failure to make such presentment. 
2. If a bill of exchange, wherein the drawer shall have expressed that
it is to be payable in any place other than that by him mentioned therein
to be tho residence of the drawee, shall not, on the presentment thereof
for acceptance, be accepted, such bill may, without further presentment
to the drawee, be protested for non-payment in the place in which it shall
have been, by the drawer, expressed to be payable, unless the amount
thereof be paid to the holder on the clay on which the bill would have become payable, bad it been cluly accepted. 
3. A bill or note which becomes due on a Sunday shall be payable and
may be protested on the preceding day, and a bill or note which becomes 
due on a Christmas day, or the first day of January or fourth day of July,
shall be payable and may be protested on the preceding day, or if that be 
Sunday, then on the preceding Saturday. 
4. When n bill or note is protested, either under the preceding section
h h ] .1S d Ch . d fl d 
or ot crwise, on t e t ay preceumg any , un ay, ristrnaa ny, rst ay
of January or fourth day of July, notice of the dishonor thereof need not 
he given until the first day ufterwards, which is not Sunday, Christmas
day, or the first day of January or fourth day of July. 
5. When a hill of exchange is accepted supra protest for honor, or has 
~ h . f d . l 11 t b 
a rererence t ereon m case o nee , tt s in no e necessary to present
such bill to such acceptor for honor, or to such referee, until the day
following that on which such bill shall become due, and if the place of
address on such hill of such acceptor for honor, or of such referee,
shall be in any town or place other than in the town or place where such
bill is therein made payable, then it shall not be necessary to forward such
hill for presentment for payment to snch acceptor for honor or referee,
until the day following that on which such bill shall become due. 
6. If the day following that on which such hill shall become due shall
happen to be a Sunday or Christmas day, or the first dny of January, or
the fourth day of July, then it shall not he neccssnry to present it or
forward it for presentment for payment to such acceptor for honor or
referee until the first day afterwards, which is not Sunday or Christmas
day, or the first day of January, or fourth day of July. 
y 7. Every promissory note, or check for money, payable in this state at 
a particular bank, or at a. particular office thereof for discount and deposit, or at the place of business of a savings institution or savings bank, 
and every inland bill of exchange, payable in this state, shall be deemed
negotiable, and may, upon being dishonored for non-acceptance or nonpayment, be protested, and the protest be in such case evidence of dishonor, in like manner as in the case of a foreign bill of exchange.v 
8. The protest both in the case of a foreign bill, and in the other cases 
. d . h di ti h ll b ' ~ . id f I 
mentione m t e precc mg sec ion, s a e pnma racie ev1 ence o w rat
is stated therein, or at the foot, or on the back thereof, in relation to pre- 
sentment, dishonor and notice thereof.
9. When a bill of exchange drawn or endorsed within this state is pro- 
tested for non-acceptance or non-payment, there shall be paid by the~:{~:\
party liable for the principal of such bill, in addition to what else he is 
liable for, damages upon the principal, at the rate of three per centum if
the bill he payable out of Virginia and within the United States, and at
the rate of ten per centum if the bill be payable without the United 
States. 
On. what writings, and how, action of debt brought.
IO. An action of debt may be maintained upon any note or writing by 
which there is a promise, undertaking or obligation to pay money, if the~
same be signed by the party who is to be charged thereby, or his agent.
)01. Upon any such notef which on its face is payable at a particular 
'b~, or at a particular office thereof for discount and deposit, or the place
of business of a savings institution or savings bank, and upon any bill of
exchange, whether such note or bill be payable in or out of this state, if
the same be protested, an action of debt may be maintained and judgment given jointly against all liable by virtue thereof, whether drawers,
endorsers, or acceptors, or against one or any intermediate number of
them, for the principal and charges of protest, with interest thereon from
the date of such protest ; and in the case of such bill, for the damages
also.
Writing payable to one dead at the time, 
12. A bond, note orother writing to a person or persons who, or some
of whom are dead at the time of its execution, shall be as valid as if such 
h
ali 
d
b
ed d
. h 
person or persons were t en ve, an may e proce e on m t e name
of the personal representative of such person, or the snrvivors or survivor, or of the representative of the last survivor of such persons. 
Writing binding pers011s jointl!J; assignments,
13. The representative of one bound with another, either jointly or as 
a partner, by judgment, bond, note or otherwise, for the payment of a 

debt, or the performance or forbearance of an act, or for any other thing,
d
d 
' h lif ' f h l b h d h
an ymg m t e 1 etime o t e a.tter, may e c arge m t e same man- 
ner as such representative might have been charged, if those bound~
jointly or as partners had been bound severally as well as jointly, other- 
wise than as partners. 
14. The aasignee of any bond, note or writing not negotiable, may
maintain thereupon any action in his own name which the original obligee
or payee might have brought, but shall allow all just discounts, not only
against himself, but against the aesignor, before the defendant had notice
of the aesignment." 
15. Any such aseignee may recover from any assignor such writing;
hut only joint assignors shall be joined as defendants in one action, and
a remote assignor shall have the benefit of the same defense as if the
suit had been instituted by his immediate assignee. t 
16. A court of equity shall not have jurisdiction of a suit upon a bond,
note or writing, by an assignee or holder thereof, unless it appear that
the plaintifff had not an adequate remedy thereon at law. 
OF PARTNERS, FACTORS AND AGENTS ;:t AND THE ACTION OF ACCOUNT. 
Sti!.
11 
Limited partnership; for what and how
to , formed; name, of partners, nature of 
4 
CHAPTER CXLV. 
J bn11luH1, &c. to be 1pecUled ln a wri
tlug, to be recorded and pnblisbed. 12.
Ii. i What d11aolve1 It, and what 111 to be done 
6. S on a renewal. 13.
7. How the bnidneu to be conducted. 
8. When capital not to be withdrawn nor
dividends mode. 
9. :So partner to be pald In ca11e of Iusol- 14.
vencv of the firm, until creditors paid. 
Sec. 
10. What proference11 not to be valid.
11. How voluntary dlasoluflou of the part
nenblp may be made.
How t1ults respecttng business of the 
partneniblp prosecuted.
Factors and agents to dlsclose names of 
their prlnelpals ; property 111ed lD bu1ine81 by any per11011 under hia own
name, to be deemed bis property. 
Of the action of GCCOUDt. 
Of limited partnerships.
1. Limited partnerships for the tranea.ction of mercanfile, mechanical 
or manufacturing business within this state, and not for the purpose of
banking, brokerage or making insurance, may be formed upon the terms,
and subject to the conditions and liabilities, prescribed in this chapter. 
2. Any such partnership may consist of one or more persons as general partners, who shall be responsible as general partners now are, and
of one or more persons as special partners, who, contributing to the
common stock a specific sum, in actual cash payment, as capital, shall
not be personally liable for any debts of the partnership, except as herein 
after mentioned.
3. The persona forming any such partnership shall make, and severally 
sign a po.per, which shall state the name and place of residence of each
partner, the name or firm under which the partnership is to be conducted,
who are general, and who are special partners, the sum which each special partner contributes, the general nature of the business to be transacted, the place or places of the said business, and the duration of the
partnership. One or more of the general partners shall also make oath
that each sum, so stated to be contributed, has been actually paid in cash. 
4. No such partnership shall be deemed to be formed, until such paper 
and a certificate of such oath, or a certified copy thereof, shall be ndmitted to record as t.o each person signing the same, in the court or the
clerk's office of the court of each county or corporation, in which may be
the place or places of the said business, upon such acknowledgment or
proof 88 is sufficient in the case of a power of attorney, nor until such
paper and certificate, ot a copy thereof, be published for six successive
weeks, in o. newspaper (if such there be) printed in every such county
or corporation. And in case any statement in such paper or certificate be
false, the special shall be liable as general partners, 
5. The partnership shall be deemed t.o be dissolved, when there is an
alteration in the name of the partners, in the nature of the business, in
the capital thereof by a diminution of it otherwise than by losses or in
the ordinary course of busmess, or an alteration in any other matter specified in sueh paper; and if the partnership be thereafter carried on, it
shall be deemed a general partnership, unless there be such renewal as is
herein after mentioned. 
6. Upon every renewal of a limited partnership, whether because of
such alteration, or to continue the partnership beyond the time originally
fixed for its duratien, the persons renewing the same shall make and
scveJ'ally sign e. paper with such statemente as the third section prescribes, except only that, where there i8 no alteration in the capital, the
sum contributed by each special partner is to be stated to have been contributed at the time the partnership was originally formed, and the year
of it.a formation is to be mentioned. And the partnership shall not be
deemed to be renewed, under this section, until the said paper, or a copy
thereof, and a certificate, such o..s is mentioned in the fourth section, shall
be admitted to record, and published as prescribed by that section. 
7. The business of the partnership shall be conducted under a firm, in
which the names of the general partners shall be inserted, without the
names of the special partners, and without the addition of the word
"company," or any other general term. The general partners only shall
be authorized to make a contract (with others than partners), respecting
the concerns of the partnership, or to transact its business. If the
name of any special partner be used in such firm, with his privity, or if
be shall make any such contract, or transact business for the partnership, 
ns agent or otherwise, he shall be liable as general partner. But this
section shall not prevent him from examining into the state of the business, and advising as to its management. 
8. During the eontinuance of the partnership, no part of any sum,
which any special partner may have contributed to the stock, shall be
withdrawn, nor shall any division of interest or profite be me.de, so long
as the stock is reduced below the sum stated in the papel' before mentioned. If any of the stock be ao withdrawn or reduced, the partner receiving the same shall be responsible for what he may have so received,
with interest thereon from the time of receiving it, or for so much thereof
as may be necessary to pay such partnership debts as may remain unpaid, after applying thereto the partnership effects. 
9. In cruse of the insolvency of the partnership, no special partner
shall be paid as a creditor of the firm, until e.11 its other creditors are 
satisfied. 
. 
IO. No sale, assignment or transfer of the property or effeots of any
such partnership, or of any interest therein, nor any lien or encumbrance
thereon, by judgment or otherwise, shall be valid, if made or created by
such partnership, at a time when it has not sufficient property or effects
to pay all its debts, for the purpose of giving a preference to one or more
of its creditors over any other creditor; or by any partner, whether general or special, at a time when he has not sufficient property or effects to 
pay all his debts, or in contemplation t]1at the partnership may not have
sufficient property or effects to pay its debts, for the purpose of giving a 
preference over creditors of the partnership to one or more creditors,
whether of his own or the partnership. 
II. No dissolution of a limited partnership shall take place, except by
operation of law, before the time specified in the paper before mentioned,
unless a notice of such dissolution shall be recorded in the court or
courts in which the said paper was recorded, and be published for six successive weeks in a newspaper (if such there be) in each of the counties
and corporations in which may have been the place or places of business
of the partnership. 
12. All suits respecting the business of any partnership formed or renewed as herein before prescribed, shall be prosecuted by and against
the general partners only, except in those cases wherein it is provided in
this chapter that a special partner shall be liable as a general partner,
in which cases all partners so liable may join or be joined in such snits.
A special partner shall also be liable to, and be suable by, the firm for
debts contracted with it, in the same manner if he were not a partner. 
Factors and agents.
13. If any person shall transact business as a trader, with the addition 
of the words "factor " "agent " "and com1>any " or "and co " and fail 
' 
1
' '' 
to disclose the name of his principal or partner, by a sign in letters easy
l d l d . I b h I . h b . . 
to je rea , p ace conspicuous y at t e ouse w ierem sue usmess is
transacted, and also by a notice published for two weeks in a newspaper 
(if any) printed in the town or county wherein the same is transacted, or
if any person transact such business in his own name, without any such
addition, a11 tho property, stock and choses in action, acquired or used in
such business, shall, as to the creditors of any such person, be liable for
the debts of such person. This section shall not apply to a person transacting such business under a license to him as an auctioneer or commission merchant. 
Action of account.
14. An action of account may be maintained against the personal re
presentative of any guardian, bailiff or receiver, and also by one joint
tenant or tenant in common, or his personal representative, against the
other as bailiff', for receiving more than comes to his just share or proportion, and against the personal representative of any such joint tenant or
tenant in common. 
CHAPTER CXL VI. 
FOR THE RELIEF OJ.,' SCRETIES. 
k 1~ 
l( Hon- surt'tles in official bonds relieved. 6. Suretr'11 remedy ogaln1t principal for
;:, .S I money paid. 
3. Officer failing to give new bond to be re- 7. Surety couft-t111ing judgment, &c. without
moved from office. notice to principal; or prludpal know
4. Surety moy require creditor to sue. Ing of BUit and not defending It.
5. Eff'ect of failure to sue. ~- Remedy of one surety against another. 
I. When the surety ( or his personal representative) of any officer, required to give an official bond, shall petition the court by which the bond
is taken, or in which, or the clerk's office of which, it is recorded, or the
circuit court of the county or corporation in which (where the bond is not
taken by or filed in o.ny court or clerk's office) the officer resides, to be
relieved from the suretyahip, such court shall, on proof of reasonable
notice of his intended motion, require such officer to give a new bond, in
the same manner as if none had been given by him. 
2. Upon such new bond being given, approved and accepted, accord-1822-3,
ing to law, the sureties in the former bond, and their estates, shall be 
discharged from all liability for any breach of duty committed by such
officer, after that time. 
3. If any such officer, being so required, shall fail to give such new
bond within the time required by the court, he shall be deemed to have
been guilty of a breach of official duty, and shall be forthwith removed
from office. 
4. The surety or guarllntor, or endorser (or his personal representstive), of any person bound by any contract, may, if a right of action has
accrued thereon, require the creditor, or his personal representative, by 
notice in writing, forthwith to institute suit thereon ; and if he be hound
in a bond with collateral condition, or for the performance of some collateral undertaking, he shall also specify in such requisition the breach of the
condition or undertaking for which he requires snit to be brought. 
5. If such creditor or his representative shall not, in a reasonable time
after such requisition, institute suit against every party to such contract,
who is resident in this state and not insolvent, and prosecute the same
with due diligence to judgment and by execution, he shall forfeit bis right
to demand of such surety or his estate, and all his cosuretiee and their
estates, the money due by nny such contract for the payment of money, or
the damages sustained by any breach of the collateral condition or undertaking specified as aforesaid. But the conditions, rights and remedies
against the principal debtor, shall remain unimpaired thereby. 
6. If any person liable as bail, surety, guarantor or endorser, or any
sheriff liable for not taking sufficient bail, or the heir or personal repro- 
sentative of any so liable, shall pay, in whole or in part, any judgment,
decree or execution rendered or awarded on account of such liability, the 
h
. . ht f t" f th t id b t" 
person avmg ng o ac ion or e amoun so par may, y mo ion 10 
the court in which the said judgment, decree or execution was rendered
or awarded, obtain judgment or decree against any person against whom 
such right of action exists, for the amount so paid, with interest from the
. d d 'd 
time of payment, an five per centum amages on sa1 amount.
7. If any such surety (other than bail), or his heir or personal repre- 
, hall f d ~ dgm to , hi
sentative, s con ess JU gment, or surrer JU ent go agatnst im 
by default, without giving notice to his principal (if he be o. resident of
this state), or his personal representative, to defend the suit, and, after
such principal offers to defend the suit, and tenders counter security, approved by the court in which the suit is pending, the said principal, or
his heirs or representatives, may have the benefit of every defense against
the motion or suit of such surety, or his representatives against him, that
he might have had against the creditor. And in all cases in which any
principal debtor or his representative or heirs, knowing of the pcndency
of any suit against his surety, or the heir or personal representative of such
surety, shall not offer to defend sueh suit, he shall be precluded from making any defense to the claim of the surety, which he might have made
against the suit of the creditor. 
8. If the principal debtor be insolvent, any surety or his personal
representative, against whom a judgment or decree hos been rendered 
on the oontract for which he was surety, may obtain a judgment or
decree by motion, in the court in which the former judgment or decree 
was rendered, against any cosnrety, or his personal representative, for
his share, in law or equity, of the amount for which the first mentioned
judgment or decree may have been rendered ; and if the same has been
paid, for such share of the amount so paid, with interest thereon from
the time of such payment. 
~itlt !i4 
CARRIERS; AND ACTIONS FOR INJURIES. 
CH. 147. Of common earriera,
148. Of actions for injuries. 
CHAPTER CXL vn. 
OJ:,~ COllMON C.~RRIERS. 
I. Where common carriers are not incorpomted, any one or more ot
them may be sued by his or their name or names only, to recover
damages for loss or injury to any parcel, psekage or person, and such
suit shall not abate ror the want of joining any of his coproprietors or
copartners. 
Sec.
L Action for 1ech1C.'tlon, 
CHAPTER CXL VIII. 
OF ACTIONS FOR INJURIES. 
2. Action for Insulting worda.
3. Action for wrongful d111tre11, &e.
4. Action of replevtn. 
I 
&c.. 
~- Action for Blavu carried off and lo1t. 
6. Action for damages from the violation of
a 11tatute. 
7. Action of trespaa1 on the caee. 
I. An action for seduction may be maintained, without any allegation
or proof of the loss of the service of the temale, by reason of the defendant's wrongful act, 
2. All words which, from their usual construction and common acceptation, are construed as insults and tend to violence and breach of the
peace, shall be actionable. No demurrer shall preclude o. jury from
passing thereon. 
3. If property be distrained for any rent not due, or attached fol' any
. .._,_ d h ed . h oodc.113,5 
rent not aocnnng, or wu.en un er o.ny attac ment su out wit out g
cause, tho owner of such property may, in an action against the party
suing out the warrant of distress or attachment, recover damages for the
wrongful seizure, and also, if the property be sold, for the sale thereof. 
t4. No action of replcvin shall be brought, after the commencement
of this chapter, except for a cause of action which arose before such commencement, and for which it was capable of being brought at the time
the same arose. 
5. Any rail road company in whose car or vehicle, and any master or
skipper of a vessel, in which a slave shall be transported or carried, with- 
out the authority of the owner of such elave, or his agent or guardian,
shall be liable to such owner for the value of such slave, if he be thereby
lost, and whether he be recovered or not, for sneh reasonable expenses o.s
may be incurred by the owner, to effect such recovery. 
6. Any person injured by the violation of any statute may recover
from the offender snoh damages o.s he may sustain by reason of the
violation, although a penalty or forfeiture for such violation be thereby
imposed,t unless the same be expressly mentioned to be in lieu of such
damages. 
7. In any case in which an action of trespass will lie, there may be
maintained an action of trespass on the case. 
&c.
1. Limitation of entry on, or action for 
land. 
2. Right not saved by claim. I
~:} Further tlme allowed lnfontB, &c. 
5. Limitation of personal aetlons generally. 
6. On bonds of fiduciaries.
7. ,vhcre new promlso lu writing. 
8. Effect of promise of pcr11onal representstive or joint contractor, 
9. Etrect on right of aetlou, of devise for
payment of debts. 
10. Limitation of actions, &c. on l't'COgDI
zance.11. 
title 45 
CHAPTER CXLIX. 
LI'MITATION OF SUITS, 
&c. 
11. Of actions not before Bpl'CUled. 
12. Action, on judgment,, &c. ot anothtt
state. 
13. 8ult11 to avoid voluntury deeds, &c.
14. To repeal a grant. 
15. ~ Sulng In case of Infants, &c. and per- 
16. 5 sons dead when right aeernes,
17. Saving to plaintifff', where Kulug was pre
vented by defendant. 
18. Further tlmo given when sult abates, or 
11.1 defeated on ground not affecting the
right to recover. 
19. As to rights e:r.illtlng when this act takes
effect. 
Limitation of entry on, or action for, land.
fl. No person shall make an entry on, or bring an action to recover,
any land, but within fifteen years next after the time at which the right
to make such entry, or to bring such action, shall have first accrued to
himself, or to some person through whom he claims. 
2. No continual or other claim, upon or near any land, shall preserve
any right of making an entry, or of bringing an action. 
3. If, at the time at which the right of any person to make entry on,
or bring an action to recover, any land, shall have first accrued, such person was an infant, married woman or insane, then such person, or the 
person claiming through him, may, notwithstanding the said period of
:fifteen years shall have expired, make an entry on, or bring an action to 
recover such land, within ten years next after the time at which the person, to whom such right shall have first accrued as aforesaid, shall have
ceased to be under such disability as existed when the same so accrued,
or shall have died, whichever shall first have happened. 
4. The preceding section is suhject to these provisocs: that no such
entry or action shall be made or brought by any person, who, at the time 
at which his right to make or bring the same, shall have first accrued,
shall be under any such disability, or by any person claiming through
him, but within thirty years next after the time at which such right shall
have first accrued, although the person, under disability at such time,
may have remained under the same during the whole of such thirty years,
or although the term of ten years from the period at which he shall have
ceased to be under any such disability, or have died, shall not have expired. And when any person shall be under any such disability at the
time at which his right to make nn entry or bring an action shall have
first accrued, and shall depart this life without having ceased to be under
any such disability, no time to make an entry, or to bring an action, beyond the fifteen years next after the right of such person shall have first 
accrued, or the ten years next after the period of hie death, shall be allowed by reason of any disability of any other person. 
Limitation of personal actions,
5. Every action to recover money, which is founded upon an award, or 
on any contract, other than a judgment or recognizance, shall be brought
within the following number of years next after the right to bring the same 
shall have first accrued, that is to say: if the case be upon an indemnifying bond taken under any statute, or upon a bond of an executor, 8(1- 
ministrator, guardian, curator, committee, sheriff' or sergeant, deputy
sheriff or sergeant, clerk or deputy clerk, or any other fiduciary or public 
officer, within ten years ; if it be upon any other contract by writing under
seal, within twenty years; if it be upon an award, or be upon a contract 
by writing, signed by the party to be charged thereby, or by his agent,~~~:= 
1
d 1
. hi fi d . f . b 
mt not un er sea , wit m Ye years; an 1 it e upon any contract,
within fheyears, unless it be an action for any articles charged in any
store account, in which case the action may be brought within two years, 
or an action by one partner against his copartuer, for n. settlement of the 
, , 
partnership accounts, or upon accounts concerning the trade of merehandisc between merchant and merchant, their factors or servants, where 
the action of account would lie, in either of which cases the action may
be brought until the expiration of five years from a cessation of the dealings in which they are interested together, but not after. 
6. The right of action upon the bond of nn executor, administrator,
di t itte f h iff . h 
gnar ran, cura or or comm, e, or o as en or sergeant actmg as sue ,
shall be deemed to have first accrued as follows : Upon a bond. of a guardian or curator of a ward, from the time of the ward's attaining the age
of twenty-one years, or from the termination of the guardian's or curator's office, whichever shall happen first; nnd upon the bond of any personal representative of a decedent or committee of an insane person, the
right of action of a person obtaining execution against such representative or committee, or to whom payment or delivery of estate in the hands 
of such representative or committee, shall be ordered by a court acting
upon his account, shnll be deemed to have first accrued from the return 
day of such execution, or from the time of the right to require payment
or delivery upon such order, whichever shall happen first. And as tog
any suit against such fiduciary himself, or his representative, which could~ 
have been maintained if he had given no bond, there shall be no other
limitation than would exist if the preceding section was not passed. 
7. If any person, against whom the right shall have so accrued on
an award, or on any such contract, shall, by writing signed by him or his
agent, promise payment of money on such award or contract, the person to~ 
whom the right shall have so accrued may maintain an action for the ~oney so promised, within such number of years after tho said promise, as it 
might originally have been maintained within upon the award or OORtract, 
d h I . iff . h h . h .. al f
an t e p amt may Cit er sue on sue promise, or on t e ongm oauee o 
action, and in the latter case, in answer to a plea under the fifth section,
may, by way of replication, state such promise, and that such action was 
brought within the said number of years thereafter i but no premise,
except by writing u aforesaid, shall take any case out of the operation of
the said fifth section, or deprive any party of the benefit thereof. An
o.oknowledgment in writing u aforesaid, from which a promise of payment may be implied, shall be deemed to be such promise in the meaning
of this section. 
8. No acknowledgment or promise, by any personal representative of
a decedent, or by one of two or more joint contractors, shall charge the 
estate of such decedent, or charge any other of such contractors, in any 
case in which, but for such acknowledgment or promise, the decedent's
estate or another contractor could hnve been protected under tho fifth 
section.
9. No provision in the will of any testator, devising his real estate, or 
any part thereof, suhject to the payment of bis debts, or charging the
same therewith, shall prevent this chapter from operating against such
debts, unless it plainly appear to be the testator's intent, that it shall not 
so operate.
10. Every action, or scire faeias upon a recognizance, shall be eom
menced, if the recognizance be not of bail in a civil suit within ten yean,
next after the right to bring the same shall have first accrued ; and if the
recognizance be of such bail, within three years after the right to sue ont
execution upon the judgment in such suit shall have accrued, omitting in
the computation of time such part of said three years, as the right to sue
such execution shall have been suspended by injunction, aupersedeas or
other legal process. 
11. Every personal action, for which no limitation is otherwise prescribed, shall be brought within five years next after the right to bring
the same shall have accrued, if it be for a matter of such nature, that in
case a party die, it can be brought by or against his representative, and
if it be for a matter not of such nature, shall be brought within one ye.ar
next after the right to bring the same shall have accrued, unless it be 
against a master or skipper of a vessel for carrying a slave out of the 
statoi to which this chapter shall not extend.
12. Every action upon a judgment or decree, rendered in any other 
state or country, shall be barred, if by the Jaws of such state or country
such action would there be barred, and the judgment or decree be incapable of being otherwise enforced there. And whether so barred or not,
no action against a person who shall have resided in this state, during the
ten years next preceding such action, shall be brought upon any such
judgment or decree, rendered more than ten years before the commencement of such action. 
Suitto avoid gifa, ~and U> repeal grants.
13. No gift, conveyance, asaignment, transfer or charge, which is not 

on consideration deemed valuable in law, shall be avoided, either in whole
. fi ll 1 I . hi fi af . . d 
or m part, or tuat cause on y, un ess wit in ve years ter 1t JS ma e
snit be brought for that purpose, or the subject thereof, or Borne part of
it, be distrained or levied upon by or at the suit of n creditor, as to whom
such gift, conveyance, assignment, transfer or charge, is declared to be
void by the second section of the one hundred and eighteenth chapter. 
14. A bill in equity to repeal, in whole or in part, any grant of land 
by the commonwealth, shall be brought within ten years next after the
date of such grant. 
When limitation does not apply or is qualified.
15. If any person, to whom the right accrues to bring any such per- 
aonal action, or scire faclas, or any such bill to repeal a grant, shall be, at
the time the same accrues, an infant, mnrried woman or insane, the same
may be brought within the like number of years after his becoming of;~}/wm. 
full age, unmarried or sane, that is allowed to a person, having no such
' di b h ti h h ft h 
nnpe iment, to rmg t e same a ter t e ng t accrues, or a er sue aeknowledgmcnt as aforesaid, except that it shall in no case be brought, 
after twenty years from the time when the right accrued.
16. If a person die before the time, at which any right mentioned in 
this chapter would have accrued to him, if he had continued alive, and
there be an interval of more than five years between the death of such
person and the qualification of his personal representative, such personal
representative shall, for the purposes of this chapter, be deemed to have 
qualified on the last day of the said fire years.
17. Where any such right as is mentioned in this chapter shall accrue 
against a person who had before resided in this state, if such person
shall, by departing without the same, or by absconding or concealing
himself, or by any other indirect ways or means, obstruct the prosecution 
of such right, the time that such obstruction may have continued shall
not be computed as any part of the time within which the said right~~:~~
might or ought to have hem prosecuted. But this section shall not avail 
against any other person than him so obstructed, notwithstanding another
might have been jointly sued with him, if there had been no such ob- 
struction. And upon a contract which was made and was to be performed
in another state or country, by a person who then resided therein, no
action shall be maintained, after the right of notion thereon is barred by
the laws of such state or country. 
18. If an action, commenced within due time, in the name of, or
against one or more plaintifffs or defendants, abate as to one of them by 
the return of no inhabitant, or by his or her death or marriage, or if, in
. d l d d f th 1 iff h 11
an action commence wit nn ue time, JU gment or e p amt s a
be arrested or reversed, upon B ground which does not preclude a llCW 
action for the same cause, or if there be occaslon to bring a new suit, by
reason of the loss or destruction of any of the papers or records in a
former suit which was in doc time; in every such case, notwithstanding
the expiration of the time within which a new action or suit most otherwise have been brought, the same may be brought within one year after
such abatement or such arrest or reversal of judgment, or such loss or
destruction, but not after. 
Right, existing ichen. this chapter talus rjfe,t.
19. 'No action, suit, scire faeiaa, ( or other proceeding, which may be 
pending on the day before the commencement of this act, or the right to 
prosecute which, under the laws in force on that day, shall have accrued
before that day, shnll be barred by this chapter, any farther or otherwise 
than as follows: the same, if pending on that day, shall be subject to
h 1Id 1 b bi if hi h d 
sue imitation as 1t wou rave een su ~ect to, 1 t s act a not
passed; nnd where not so pending, if the right to prosecute the same 
shall exist on thnt day, for a certain number of years prescribed by any 
statute, the same, or such other action as may be substituted therefore by 
this net, may he prosecuted within such time a.s the same might have 
been prosecuted, if this chapter had not been enacted, and not after;
and where not so pending, if the right to prosecute the same shall exist
on that day, in a case in which no certain number of years shall have
been prescribed therefore by statute, the same, or such other action as
may be substituted therefore by this act, may be prosecuted within such
time as the same would have to be prosecuted, if the right to bring it had 
accrued on the next day after the commencement of this act. 
~itle 46 
WARRANTS, ATTACHMENTS AND BAIL. 
CH. 150. Of warrants for small claims.
151. Of attachments and of bail. 
CHAPTER CL. 
01'' WARRANTS 1-'0R SMALL CLADIS. 
8,;e. I Sec. 
l. For what jn11tico haa jurlHdlction; wheu ,11. )lotlons against conatables : evidence on;
ca11e may be removed to court. duty of ju11tlce In respect thereto. 
2. How wurrnut is is11ucd, dlroctcd and re- 12. l "'hen coustuble, &c. liable on 11uch mo 
turnable. ia 5 tlon. 
~- 5 and recorded, -, 15. l When appeal from judgment of ju11tlct>;
6. When and by whom U<'W trial awarded. 16. duty of Ju11tlce and clerk. 
3. "1tne1111cl!. bow summoned and compelled 14. "\\'here dlstl"f'1111 or levy on property not
to uttend. C!'XC~dlng valno of 20, and title dis- 
4. l How warrant tried, and judgment given puted. 
7. How appeal allowed or execution stayed, 1117. How nppeul heard, and judgment there8. }How exocutlon l11Hnc.-d, directed and re- is, upon. 
!l. turnuble; duty of clerk npon return ! l!J. Exception, n11 to city of lUchmond, of
10. to him. the mayor'e court. 
How issued and proceeded on to judgment. 
j 1. Any claim to property, or to any debt, fine, or other money, which
Id b bl b . I it . . if f 
wou e reeovera e, y action at aw or sm m equity, 1 o greater
value or amount than fifty dollars (exclusive of interest), shall, when the 
claim is to a fine, if it be limited to an amount not exceeding twenty dollars, and in other cases, if the claim be not of greater value or amount
than fifty dollars (exclusive of interest), be cognizable by a. justice; e.od
even if the claim be for or against the town or county in which such jus- 
tice resides. But in every case where the sum or thing in controversy
exceeds the amount or value of twenty dollars, the justice shall, upon the
application of the defendant, a.t any time before trial, remove the cause
to the court of the county or corporation wherein the same shall be
brought, and the clerk of the said court shall <locket the same, and it
shall be proceeded in as if it were a motion in said court, under the sixtltsection of chapter one hundred and sixty-seven, of which the notice was
docketed at the time such case is so docketed. 
2. A justice, when applied to by any person, shall issue a warrant
to tabl 
. . hi h . h h
a cone e, rcqmrmg m to summon t e person agaiust w om t o 
claim is made, to appear before him or some other justice, on a certain
day, not exceeding thirty days from the date thereof, to answer such
claim. It shall be made returnable to some place within the constable's
district in which the defendant resides, unless the justice, for good cause
shown on oath, direct it to be returned to some other place within his
county or corporation. t 
3. Subpcenas for witnesses may be issued by a. justice, directed to a
constable of nuy county or corporation. Any person, summoned to attend
as a witness before a justice, who shall fail so to attend, shall, unless he
show a reasonable excuse therefore, within ten days after being summoned
to state such excuse, be fined, by the justice before whom the failure occurred, a sum not exceeding five dollars, for the use of the party on whose
behalf he was summoned'. 
4. The justice shall try such warrant, according to the principles of
law and equity, and give judgment for the sum due to either party, withinterest, or for the property to which the plaintifff is entitled (or its value), 
with damages. Costs shall be awarded or refused to either party, on the
like principles. 
5. The justice rendering any such judgment, shall, in a book kept for
such purpose, enter the date thereof, the name of the person for, and of 
the person against, whom it is, and its a.mount; also, the date of any
execution issued thveon, and to whom delivered. If he fail to do so, he
shall forfeit twenty dollars. The cost of such book shall be chargeable
on the county or corporation. The justice shall also write on the face of
the paper or writing on which the warrant issued, or on any writing allowed as a set-off, the date and amount of the judgment and costs, and
affix his name thereto. 
~. After thirty days from any such judgment, no new trial shall be
granted in the case; nor shall it be granted within the thirty days, unless 
the opposite party be present at the time of the application, or unless
after five days' notice to him (if in the county or corporation), of the time
and place of the application for such new trial. The justice who rendered the judgment' shall alone have power to grant such new trial, while
he is in office; if he die, resign, be absent from the county, or be removed, it may be granted by another justice. 
-:::!1, If a judg~ent of a justice of the pe~ce be f~r a sum exceeding ten
nnd not excec<lmg twenty dollars, exclusive of mterest and costs, the 
justice rendering it may l.ltay execution on it forty days from ita date. If
the judgment be for a sum exceeding twenty and not exceeding thirty
dollars, he may stay execution on it sixty days from its date. If the judgment be for a sum exceeding thirty dollars, he may stay execution on it 
ninety days from its date; on such security being given in either case for
d ffi . . 
its payment, as he may eem su cient, From any such Judgment the
justice rendering it may, within ten days, on such security being given as 
he approves, for the payment of the same, and all costs and damages (if
it be affirmed), allow an appeal where the case involves the constitution
ality or validity of an ordinance or by-law of a corporation, or where the
matter in controversy, exclusive of interest, is of greater' amount or 
value than ten dollars. The verbal acknowledgment of any surety taken
under this section shall be sufficient, and the endorsement by the justice
of the name of the surety upon the warrant on which the judgment is
rendered, shall be conclusive evidence of such acknowledgment. The
court in which the appeal is cognizable may, on motion, for good cause
shown, require the appellant to give new or additional security, reasonable
notice of such motion having been given to said appellant; and if he fail
to give such security, the appeal shall be dismissed with costs, and the
court shall award execution on the judgment rendered by the justice.
with eosta, against the appellant and his surety.
How execution is is&ued, directed, and returnable. 
f 8. The justice rendering any judgment may issue a writ of fieri facias
thereon immediately, if there be not a new trial granted, nor an appeal
allowed, nor a stay of execution. And where there is such stay of execution, if the judgment be not paid within the forty or sixty clays, as tho
case may be, a writ of fieri faeias shall thereupon be issued hy a justice
against the party and bis surety jointly, on which no security shall be 
taken.
9. A writ of fieri faeias issued by a justice, shall be directed to a con
stable. It may be directed to and executed by a constable for any county
or corporation which the plaintifff may designate, and shall be returnable 
within sixty days. If not wholly satisfied, it may, within one year from
the judgment, be returned to and renewed by a justice, notwithstanding 
the provisions of chapter forty-nine. But every execution issued by a
justice, which is not so returned and renewed, shall he returned by the
constable to the clerk's office of the court by which he was appointed,
And when for any cause it is unfit for a writ of fieri facias to be directed
to a constable, such writ shall ho directed to and executed by a sheriff' or
sergeant of the county or corporation. 
10. The clerk shall <locket all executions returned by a constable, and
index the same in the name of both plaintifff and defendant, and file them
alphabetically, in a separate bundle for each year; for which servlces tho
clerk shall he entitled to a fee, to be paid by the plaintifff in each case, of 
twenty cents. Such further executions may be issued for the recovery of
the amount cftte on any execution so returned, as if the judgment on which 
it issued had been rendered in court. The same may, at the option of
the plaintifff, be directed to and executed either by a. constable, or by a
sheriff or sergeant; and the same proceedings shall be had upon executions
issued under this section, as upon executions issued upon judgments of 
courts.
Motion, against constables, 
11. A copy from the entry in the justice's book, of the date of any
execution issued by him, and to whom delivered, shall be evidence in any 
proceeding against the officer to whom it is entered as delivered, for failing to make duo return thereof, or for failing to pay over money received
thereon. If a justice, upon being applied to for a copy of any entry,
shall refuse it, and afterwards, upon being summoned to produce the
book in which such entry is or ought to have been made, shall fail to
produce such entry, be shall forfeit twenty dollars to the person on whose
behalf he is summoned. 
12. If an officer fail to make due return of any execution issued by n.
justice, he may, after ten days' notice, be fined from time to time by a!~~:~~- 
justice, on the motion of the plaintifff in such execution, in like manner
as a court may fine an officer, who foils to make due return of an execution issued from such court. And if an officer shall make such return
upon an execution issued by a justice, as would, on a motion against the
officer, authorize judgment to be entered against him for the amount of
such execution, or any part thereof, if the execution had issued from a
court, the creditor on whose behalf such execution issued, or his personal
representative, may, on a motion before a justice, after like notice, obtain
such judgment against the officer, his sureties and others, as could be given
by a court, if the execution had issued from a court. This section shall 
not prevent a motion in court under chapter forty-nine, or under the
fifthsection of chapter one hundered and sixty-seven. 
13. If a constable collect money mentioned in an execution after the
return day thereof, he and his sureties shall be liable for the money so 
11
d
. lik if h 11 . had bee b r: h 
co ecte , m e manner as 1 t e co ection n erore t e return
day. And if a constable receive money on account of any claim en- 
trusted to him to warrant for, and recoverable by warrant, he and his
sureties shall be liable for the money so received, as for money collected
under execution ; and after six months from the date of any receipt for
such claim, signed in his official character, such receipt shall be prima
facie evidence of the receipt of the money. 
Where distress or lev.ff on. properl!J not exceeding t:alue of twenty dollars ; and title disputed. 
.::Ill. When an execution on a judgment of a. justice, or a warrant of
distress, is levied upon property not of greater value than twenty dollars,
which is claimed by any person other than the party against whom it
issued, such perf!on may apply to n. justice of the county or corporation
in which the levy is, for a warrant to n constable, requiring him to summon both the creditor and debtor, to show cause why the property should
not be discharged from the levy. The justice shall issue such warrant,
returnable in not less than five days ; and if an earlier day shall have 
been fixed for the sale of the property, he shall make an order on the
warrant, requiring the postponement of the sale until after return day.
Upon hearing the parties, or such of them as may attend after being
summoned, he shall order the officer to deliver the property to the claimant, or the person from whom it was taken, or shall dismiss the summons, as may seem most proper, and may give such judgment for costs
as he may deem just. If the property be of the value of ten dollars, the
justice shall, within five days, allow an appeal from such order and judgment, on security being given as in the appenle before mentioned in this
chapter. 
O 
When appeal from judgment of juatice. 
~5. The justice, from whose judgment an appeal is allowed, shall immediately deliver to the clerk of the court which bas cognizance of the
appeal, the original warrant, with the judgment 8Il(1 the name of the
surety endorsed thereon, and the clerk shall docket the same. 
~6. When an appeal is allowed from any order or judgment of a justice, it shall be cognizable liy the court to which such justice belongs, un- 
less it be in a cnse involving the constitutionality or validity ?f an ordinance, or by-law of a corporation, in which case it shall be cognizable by
the circuit court having jurisdiction over the county or corporation in
which the judgment is rendered. 
~7. Every such appeal shall be tried in a summary way, without pleadings in writing. The court trying it sba11 hear all the evidence produced 
by either party, whether the same were produced before the justice from
whose decision the appeal is taken or not, and determine it according to 
the principles of law and equity. If the decision be affirmed, execution
shall issue against the principal and his surety, jointly, or separately, for
the amount of the original judgment, including interest and costs, with
damages on the aggregate, at the rote of ten per ccntum per annum, from
the date of that judgment till payment, and for the costs of the appeal;
and the execution shall be endorsed " no security to be taken." If the
decision be reversed, the appellant shall recover his costs; and such order
or judgment shall be made or given as ought to have been made or given
by the justice. Where the appeal is from an order or judgment under
the fourteenth section, the court shall give such judgment, respecting the
property, the expense of keeping it, and any injury done to it, as may be
equitable among the parties. 
-:18. Either party to an appeal, may give ten days' notice to the other
party, that o. motion will be made to try the appeal, and the court shall,
on the do.y named in the notice, whether at n quarterly or monthly term,
try the appeal, without regard to its place on the docket, unless good cause
be shown by the adverse party for a. continuance, and, if so continued,
shall try it as soon as may be thereafter. 
Exception as. to the city of Richmond.
19. Nothing contained in this chapter, in conflict with the act entitled 
an act concerning the jurisdiction of tho mayor's court of the city of
Richmond," passed the twenty-seventh day of February, one thousand
eight hundred and forty-nine, shall be construed to repeal the same. 
Su ..
1. w11en and how attachments med out 
against non-resldeuts.
2. Against defendant removing hla effects 
pending snit.
3. l Ag11lnst debtors and tenants removing E>f4. 5 fecta, whether claim be payable or not.
5. Against vett11el11 in certain e1111et1. 
6. To whom dlreeted ; where returnable.
7. How to be executed. 
8. t Duty of officer executing attachment;
9. 5 when to seize prop\irty. 
lQ. Attachment Issued or executed on Sunday. 
11. Attachments in equity; when and how.
12. Lien of attncbment. 
13. t Where property rrplevied; bond, how
14. 5 tuken and returned. 
15. How interest or protlts applied in certain 
CRl!eS. 
17 I Proceeding ag11in11t garnlsht>e, a11 to debts,
to &.c. admitted, or to uaeertalu debts, &c. 
16. How attached property k<'pt. When It
may be sold. 
19. not admitted by him.
20. When order of pub~tlon made. 
CHAPTER CLI. 
OF ATTACHMENTS. 
&c.
21. l What and by whom defense may be 
22. 5 made.
23. t Proceedlngs when claim of plalntlft' aus24. 5 tnlned. 
25. How and when claim of other parties to
the property trled, 
26. Priority of attuhmt'nt11 as to each other.
Zl. t when debtor may have CW!o reheard; u 
28. 5 to deeree of re11titution.
29. Attachments for debts under twenty dol
lars.
30. When plaintifff liable for damages. 
31. When appeal bond given, property d111charged. 
32. Bonds under thlt! chapter may be given
by any person. 
33 
l Bail required of defendants leaving state. 
34: 5 ~r::c~~ ~ri:~ m~~n arreat and com- 
35 l How party may proceed to obtain dillto charge. Process to compel disclosure 
37. of estate,
38. To whom conveyance to be made. Re
39. 
turn to court. Dlsposltion of property.
Plalntitf to glvo bond fol" damageg and 
costs. 
When and hoio sued out;" 
t I. When any suit is instituted for a.ny debt, or for damages for breach
of any contract, on affidavit stating the amount and justice of the claim,
that there is present cause of action therefore, that the defendant or one
of the defendants is not a. residep.t of this state, and that the afliant believes he has estate or debts due him within the county or corporation in
which the suit is, or that he is sued with n. defendant residing therein, the
plaintifff may forthwith sue out of the clerk's office an attachment against
the estate of the non-resident defendant for the amount so stated. 
2. On affidavit at the time of, or after the institution of any suit, that
the plaintifff's claim is believed to be just, and, where the suit is to recover
specific personal property, stating the nature, and, according to the
affiant's belief, the value of such property, and the probable amount of
damages the plaintifff will recover for the detention thereof, or where it
is to recover money for any claim or damages for any wrong, stating a
certain sum which (at the least) the affiant believes the plaintifff is entitled to, or ought to recover, and an affidavit also, that the affiant believes
that the defendant is removing or intends to remove such specific property or his own estate, or the proceeds of the sale of his property, or a
material part of such estate or proceeds out of this state, so that process
of execution on a judgment in said suit, when it is obtained, will be
unavailing, in any such case the clerk shall issue an attachment as the
case may require. If the suit be for specific property, the attachment
may be against the specific property sued for, and against the defendant's
estate for so much as is sufficient to satisfy the probable damages for its
detention; or at the option of the plaintifff, against the defendant's estate 
for the value of such specific property and the damages for its detention.
If the suit be to recover money for a claim, or damages for a wrong, the
attachment shall be against the defendant's estate, for the amount specified in the affidavit as that which the afflant believes the plaintifff is
entitled to or ought to recover. 
3. On complaint by any person or his agent to any justice, whether 
hi I . . bl h hi 1 b . 1 
is c ann is puya e or not, t at is < er tor intends to remove, or 1s 
removing, or has removed bis effects, out of this state, so that there will 
b bl b
1ffi fli 
pro a y not e therein su cient e ects of the debtor to satisfy the claim
when judgment is obtained therefore, should only the ordinary process of 
law be used to obtain such judgment, if such person or bis agent make
oath to the truth of such complaint, to the best of his helief, as well as 
to the amount and justice of his claim, and at what time the same is
payable, the justice shall issue an attachment against the estate of the 
defendant, for the amount so stated. 
1 
4. On complaint by any lessor or bis agent to a justice, that any persou liable to him for rent intends to remove, or is removing, or has within
thirty days removed, his effects from the leased premises, if such lessor 
or his agent mnke oath to the truth of such complaint, to the best of his
belief, and to the rent which is reserved (whether in money or other
thing), and will be payable within one year, and the time or times when 
it will be so payable, and also make oath either that there is not, or he
believes, unless an attachment issues, there will not be left on such premises property liable to distress, sufficient to satisfy the rent so to become
payable, such justice shall issue an attachment for the said rent, against
such goods as might be distrained for the same if it had become payable,
and against any other estate of the person so liable therefore.
). 5. If any person has any claim against the commander of any steam
bont or other vessel, or against any other person, for any damages sus
tained, or any penalty incurred by reason of a slave being assisted to abscond from his owner, or transported or carried out of the state, or out of
any county, in violation of any statute, or against the owner of any sueh
vessel, or of any raft or river craft, naviguting the Ohio river, or any of
its tributaries, within the jurisdiction of this state, or any vessel, raft or
river craft, or the owner thereof, navigating the waters of any navigable
stream of the commonwealth, for materials, supplies or labor furnished
or bestowed in the building, repairing, equipping, navigating, or attending upon the same, or for wbarfage, or for any contract for the transportation of or for any injury done to any person or property by such vessel,
raft or river craft, or by any person having charge of her, or in her employment, such person may forthwith sue out of the clerk's office of the
county or circuit court of the county in which such steam boat or other
vessel or raft or river craft may be situated or found, an attachment
against the estate of the defendant, or against the steam boat or other
vessel, raft or river craft of which he is tho owner or commander, with
all the tackle, apparel and furniture ; and the order of publication required by the twentieth section of this chapter may be against the commander or owner of the steam boat or other vessel, raft or river craft at
tached, or against the person liable, by description, and without setting
forth the name of such party. Any attachment may be sued out under 
this section for a cause of action that may have arisen without the jurisdiction of this state, if the steam boat or other veesel, or raft or river
craft be on the Ohio river, or any of its tributaries, within the jurisdiction of the state, or any navigable stream of the commonwealth, at the
time the attachment is sued out or executed. And any attachment
against nny vessel, raft or river craft, and her tackle, apparel or furnitare, may be sued out under this section without the previous institution 
1 
a suit, and without setting forth the name of the pereon liable.
6. Any attachment, issued under this chapter, may be directed to the 
heriff, sergeant or constable of any county or corporation. If issued in
a pending suit, it shall be returnable to n term of tho court in which the
same is pending, or to some rule day thereof. Where issued by a justice, it shall, if the claim is over twenty dollars ( exclusive of interest),
be returnable, at the option of the plaintifff, to the next term of the circuit or county or corporation court, of the county or corporation in which
the debtor last resided, or in which the leased tenement mny be. 
7. Every such attachment ( except where it is sued out specially against
specified property) may be levied upon any estate, real or personal, of
the defendant, or so much thereof as is sufficient to pay the amount for 
hi
b
. . I b 11 r. ffi . 1 I . d . b . 
w c it issues. ts a ue au eient y evie m every case, ya service
of a copy of such attachment on such persons as may be designated by
the plaintifff in writing, or be known to the officer to be in possession of
effects of, or to be indebted to, the defendant ; and as to real estate, by 
such estate being mentioned and described by endorsement on such att.achment. 
8. But if the plaintifff shall. at the time of suing out such attachment,
or afterwards, give bond with security, approved by the clerk or justice 
issuing the attachment, in a penalty of at least double the amount of the
cl . d f h di 11 d d 
aim sworn to or sue or, wit con itron to pay a costs an amages
which may be awarded against him, or sustained by any person, by rea- 
son of his suing out the attachment, the said officer shall take possession
of the property specified in the attachment, or where no such property is
specified, of any estate or effects of the defendant, or so much thereof as
is sufficient to pay the plaintifff's claim. When such bond is given, the
fact shall he endorsed on the attachment, or certified by the clerk or justice to the officer, who shall return the said certificate with the attachment; and the bond, when taken by a justice, shall be returned by him 
te, and filed in, the clerk's office of the court to which the attachment is
returnable. 
9. In either case, the officer shall return with the attachment the names
of the persons designated as" ha Ying effects of, or owing debts to the defondant; shall summon them to appear as garnishees, at the first day of
the court to which the attachment is returnable, or if the attachment be 
returnable at rules, at the first day of the next term after it is returnable,
and shall also return a list and description of the property taken (if any) 
under such attachment; and likewise the date of the service, or execution thereof, on each person and parcel of property. 
10. Such attachment may be issued or executed on Sunday, if oath be
madf!, that the defendant is actually removing his effects on that day. 
Attachments in touity.
11. A claim to any debt, or to damages for breach of any oontraet 
agninst a person who is not a resident of this state, but who has estate or
debts due him within the same, may, if such claim exceed twenty dollars, 
exclusive of interest, he maintained in any court of equity for a county
or corporation in which there may be any such estate, or a defendant
owing nny debt to such non-resident. When a person has such claim, or
when 8 person claims to be entitled in equity to any money _or property 
from a. person against whom and for which an attachment might be sued
out of a clerk's office, if tho claim were recoverable at Jaw, there may be 
an affidavit according to the nature of the case, confonning as near as its
nature will admit, to what is specified in previous sections ; and such
affidavit may be at the time of or after the institution of the suit. Upon
such affidavit, the plaintifff mny require the clerk to endorse on a summons an order to the officer to whom it is directed to attach the specific
property (if any be mentioned in the affidavit), and tho debts clue, or to 
become due by other defendants (if any), to the defendant ngainst whom
the claim is, and also any other estate of that defendant, whether in his
own hands or in the hands of other defendants. Any attachment under
this section shall be executed in the same manner, and 8hn11 have tho
same effect as at law, but the proceedings therein shall 1,e the same as in
other suits in chancery. And the court, or in tho vacation thereof, a
judge of a circuit court may interpose by injunction, or the nppointment
of a receiver, or otherwise, to secure the forthcoming of the specific property sued for, and so much other estate as will probnbly he required to
satisfy any future order or decree that will be made in the cause." 
Auachment lien; repletJying; keeping or selling property.
12. The plaintifff shall have a lien, from the time of the levying of 
such attachment, or serving a copy thereof, ns aforesaid, upon the personal property, choses in action and other securities of the defendant 
against whom the claim is, in the hands of or due from nay such gar- 
h h . . d d al d ms ce on w om it is so serve , an on any re estate mentione m an 
endorsement on the attachment or subpcenn, from the suing out of tho
same. 
13. Any property levied on or seized as aforesaid under any attachh h 1 . "ff h b d b . d b l 
w ere t e p nmti as given on , may c retaine y, or returnee
to, the person in whoso possession it wns, on his giving bond, with condi- 
tion to have the same forthcoming at such time and place as the court
may require; or the defendant, against whom the claim is, may release 
from lny attachment the whole of the estate attached, by giving bond,
with condition to perform the judgment or decree of-the court. The bond, 
in either case, shall be taken by the officer serving the attachment, with
security payable to the plaintifff, and in a penalty in the latter case nt 
least double tho amount or value for which the attachment issued, and 
in the former either double the same, or double the vnlue of the property
retained or returned, at the option of tho person giving it. 
14. Every such bond shall be returned by the officer to, and filed by,
the clerk of the court in which the suit is pending, or to which the attach- 
ment is returnable, and the plaintifff may, within thirty days after the
return thereof, file exceptions to the same, or to the sufficiency of the
security therein. If such exception be sustained, the court shall rule the
said officer to file a good bond, with sufficient security, to be approved by 
it, on or before a certain day to be fixed by the court. If he foil to do so,
be and his sureties in his official bond, shall be liable to the plaintifff as
for a breach of such bond. But the officer shall have the same rights and
remedies against the parties to any bonds so adjudged bad, as if he were
a surety for them. 
15. When any attachment is sued out, either at law or in equity, on
such affidavit as is mentioned in the second or third section, although the
property or estate attached be not replevied as aforesaid, the interests and
profits thereof, pending the suit and before judgment or decree, may be
paid to the defendant, if the court deem it 11roper, and at any time during
such period the court, or a judge of a circuit court in vacation, may discharge the attachment, as to the whole of the estate of the def end ant
against whom the claim is, on his giving bond, with security payable to
the plaintifff, in a penalty double the value of such estate, with condition, 
if judgment or decree be rendered for the plaintifff in said suit, to pay tho
said value, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the same. 
~6. All property, seized under any attachment, and not replevled or
lold before judgment, shall be kept in the sarue manner as similar property taken under execution. But such as is expensive to keep or perish- 
able ( other than slaves), may be sold, by order of the court, or if it he a. 
. . . . b d . d h - 1 b
circuit court, m vacation thereof, y or er of the JU ge; sue saie to e 
made in the same manner as if it were a sale under execution, except
that where the claim, for which the attachment was sued out, is not yet 
payable, or the court or judge sees other reason for directing a credit, the
sale uml~r this, or any other section of this chapter, shall be on credit
until the time it is payable, or such other time as the court or judge may
direct, and for the proceeds of sale, bond, with good security, shall be
taken, payable to the officer, for the benefit of the party entitled, and
shall be returned by the officer to the court. 
Proceeding where there is a garnishee.
17. When any garnishee shall appear, he shall be examined on oath. 
If it appear, on such examination, or by his answer to a. hill in equity,
that at or after the sen-ice of the attachment he was inc.lebted to the de- 
f 
d t
l h l h d hi l 
en an against w 10m t e c aim is, or a in ts possession or contro any
goods, chattels, money, securities or other effects, belonging to the said 
defendant, the court may order him to pay the amount so due by him,
and to deliver such effects to such person as it may appoint as receiver ,
or such garnishee, with the leave of the court, may give bond, with sufficient security, payable to such person and in such penalty as the court
shall prescribe, with condition to pay the amount due by him, and have
such effects forthcoming, at such time and place as the court may there- 
after require.
18. If any garnishee, summoned as aforesaid, fail to appear in an at- 
tachment at law, the court may either compel him to appear, or hear proof
of any debt due by him to, or of effects in his hands of, the defendant in
such attachment, and make such orders in relation thereto, as if what is
so proved had appeared on his examination. ~ 
19. When it is suggested by the plaintifff in any attachment a.t law,
that the garnishee has not fully disclosed the debts due by him to, or 
effects in his hands of, the defendant in ~uch attachment, the court shall
cause a jury to be impnnncled, without any formal pleading, to inquire 
as to such debts and effects, and proceed, in respect to any such found
by the jury, in the same manner as if they had been confessed hy the
garnishee. If the verdict be in favor of the garnishee, he shall have
judgment for his costs against the plaintifff.
Order of publication; defense to the auachment ; conflicting claims; and
judgment. 
20. ,vhen any attachment, except under the third or fourth section, is
returned executed, an order of publication shall be made against the de
fondant against whom the claim is, unless he has been served with a copy
of the attachment, or with process in the suit in which the attachment
issued. 
21. Either the defendant in any such attachment, or any garnishee,
or any party to any forthcoming or replevy bond given as aforesaid, or
the officer, who may be liable to the plaintifff by reason of such bond
being adjudged bad, may make defense to such attachment, but tho
attachment shall not thereby be discharged, or the property levied on
released. 
22. The right to sue out any such attachment may be contested; and
when the court is of opinion that it was issued on false suggestions, or
without sufficient cause, judgment shall be entered that the attachment
be abated. When the attachment is properly sued out, and the case
heard upon its merits, if the court be of opinion that the claim of the
plaintifff is not established, final judgment shall be given for the defendant. In either case he shall recover his costs, and there shall be an
order for the restoration to him of the attached effects. 
23. If the claim of the plaintifff be established, judgment or decree
shall be rendered for him, and the court shall dispose of the specific pro
perty mentioned in the second section as may be right, and order the
'sale of nny other effects or real estate, which shall not have been pre
viously replevied or sold under this chapter, and direct the proceeds of
sale, and whatever else is subject to the attachment, including what is
embraced by such replovy or forthcoming bond, to be applied in sntisfao- 
tion of the judgment or decree. But no real estate shall be sold, until
all other property and money subject to tho attachment has been exhausted, and then only so much thereof as is necessary to pay the judgment or decree. 
24. But if the defendant, against whom the claim Is, has not appeared
or been served with a copy of the attachment sixty days before such
decree, the plaintifff shall not have the benefit of the preceding section,
unless or until he shall have given bond, with sufficient security, in such 
penalty as the court shall approve, with condition to perform such future
order as may be made upon the appearance of the said defendant and
his making defense. If the plaintifff fail to give such bond, in a reasonable time, the court shall diepose of the estate attached or the proceeds
thereof, as to it shall seem just. 
25. Any person may file his petition, at any time before the property 1 
attached as tho estate of a defendant is sold, or the proceeds of sale paid 
h
1
. "ff d h d . d a. h l"d" f<Hlm
to t e p ainti un er t e ecree or JU gment, isputing t e va 1 1ty o 6 
th
1
. 'ff h h . 1 . h . 10 
e p ainti 's attao ment t ereon, or stating a c rum t creto, or an interest in or lien on the same, under any other attachment or otherwise,
and its nature, and upon giving security for costs, the court, without any
other pleading, shall impnnnel a. jury to inquire into such claim, and if
it be found that the petitioner has title to, or a lien on, or any interest
in, such property .or its proceeds, the court shall make such order as is
necessary to protect his rights; the coats of which inquiry shall be paid
by either party, at the discretion of the court. 
26. The attachment first served on the same property, or on the person having such property in possession, shall have priority of lieu. ~ 
Rehearing after judgment or decree.
Z1. If a defendant, against whom, on publication, judgment or decree 
is rendered under anv such attachment, or his personal representative, 
h
11 
l . hi h . hi 
s a return to or appear open y in t ia state, e may, wit m one year, 

after a copy of such judgment or decree shall be served on him at the
instance of the plaintifff, or within five years from the date of the decree
or judgment, if he be not so served, petition to have the proceedings reheard. On giving security for costs, he shall be admitted to ma!te defence against such judgment or decree, as if he had appeared in the case
before the same was rendered, except that the title of any bona fide purchaser to any property, real or personal, sold under such attachrnent,
shall not be brought in question or impeached. But this section shall not
apply to any case in which the petitioner or his decedent was served with
a copy of the attachment, or with process in thesuit wherein it issued, 
more than sixty days before the (late of the judgment or decree, or to
any case in which he appeared and made defense. 
28. On any rehearing or new trial had under the preceding section tho
court may order the plaintifff in the original suit to restore uny money,
paid to him under such judgment or decree, to the heir or representative
of such defendant as tho same may be the proceeds of real or personal
estate, and enter a judgment or decree therefore against him, or it may
confirm the former judgment or decree; and in either case adjudge the 
costs to the prerniling party. 
Attachments for debts under twenty dollars.
"f--29. .Any creditor whose claim, whether legal or equitable, does not ex- 
eeed twenty dollars, exclusive of interest, upon complaint on oath in the
manner prescribed by the first, second, third and efeventh sections, as the 
case may be, may obtain from any justice of any county or corporation
in which any property or effects of the defendant ma.y be, or in which any 
person indebted to him may reside, an attachment against the estate of 
10 
such defendant, directed to any sheriff, sergeant or constable of his county
or corporation, and returnable before any justice thereof; and thereupon
such proceedings may be had before the justice as would. if the claim exceeded twenty dollars, be had before a court, except that the proceedings
shall be in all cases without any formal pleading, and an order of publication need not be published in a newspaper, and the justice shall try
and decide all questions without a jury. All bonds taken under such
attachment shall be filed with the clerk of the court to which the justice
belongs. 
Where damages against plaintifff; or appeal from judgment; h01D
bonds are given in attachment cases. 
30. If, upon defense being made, in any case in which property is
seized under an attachment, that the attachment was sued out without
sufficient cause, it be found either by the court or by the jury, if one be
impanneled, that the defense is well founded, judgment may be entered
for the defendant against the plaintifff for the damages sustained by the
defendant by reason thereof. 
31. Where judgment or decree in favor of the plaintifff is rendered in
any case in which an attachment is sued out, and on appeal therefrom,
an appeal bond is given with condition to prosecute the appeal with effect,
or pay the debt, interest, costs and damages, as well as the costs of the
appeal, the officer in whose custody any attached property may be, shall
deliver the same to the owner thereof. 
How bonds may be given.
32. Any bond authorized or required by any section of this chapter 
may be given either by the party himself, or by any other person,
Bail required of defendants leaning state ; form of tori: ; wlte1' 
arrest and commitment to be made.
33. If a plaintifff in any action or suit shall by affidavit show to the 
satisfaction of tho court in which it is pending, or to any judge or justice
of the peace, that he has cause of action or suit ago.inst a defendant, and 
that there is probable cause for believing that the said defendant is about
to quit this state, unless he be forthwith apprehended, it shall be lawful
for such court, judge or justice to direct that such defendant shall be held
to bail for such sum as the said court, judge, or justice may think fit;
and thereupon the said plaintifff may sue out of the clerk's office, in such
action or suit, a writ of capias ad respondendum against said defendant,.
the form of which writ shall, in a suit in equity, as well as in an action
at law, be as nearly as may be assimilated to the form of such writ as it
was used at law before the commencement of the Code of Virginia. 
34. Under such capias, the defendant against whom it issues shall be 
arrested and committed to jail, unless bond be given in the sum aforesaid, with sufficient security, that in case there shall in the action or suit 
be any judgment, decree or order, on which a writ of fieri fucias may 
issue, and within four months after such judgment, decree or order, inter- 
rogatories be filed under the fifth section of chapter one hundred and
eighty-eight, with a commissioner of the court wherein such judgment,
decree or order is, the said defendant will at the time the commissioner
issues a summons to answer such interrogatories, be in the county or corporation in which such commissioner may reside, and will within the time
prescribed in such summons file proper answers, upon oath, to such interrogatories, and make such conveyance and delivery as is required by the
said chapter, or in case of failure to file such answers and make such
conveyance and delivery, that the said defendant will perform and satisfy
the said judgment, decree or order. 
How party may proceed to obtain discharge; process to compel disclosure of estate. 
35. The defendant arrested under a capias may, at any time pending
the case, give bond to the officer making the arrest. Such bond shall be 
taken by said officer and returned by him to the clerk of the court from
which the capias issued, and the same shall be filed in said clerk's office. 
36. If the defendant give such bond, or be committed to jail for want
of it, the court in which the case is pending, or if it be a circuit court,
the judge thereof in vacation, may, after reasonable notice to the plaintifff
or his attorney or counsel, quash the eapies and discharge the defendant
from custody, or discharge the bond, on being satisfied that there was not
probable cause for believing that the defendant was about to quit the
state; and whether there was such cause or not, mny discharge him from
custody when the plaintifff is cast in the action or suit.
. 37. While a defendant is in custody, whether under an arrest made 
heretofore or hereafter, the plaintifff without having a judgment against
the defendant, may file interrogatories to him in like manner as might be
done under the fifth section of chapter one hundred and eighty-eight, if
such judgment had been obtained and e. fieri facias thereon delivered to
an officer. And the court wherein the case is pending, or a judge of a
circuit court, or a commissioner of a circuit, county or corporation court,
or a justice of the peace, after reasonable notice to the plaintifff or his
attorney or counsel, may discharge a defendant from custody, unless interrogatories be filed within such time as the said court, judge, commissioner or justice may deem reasonable; or though interrogatories be filed,
may discharge him when proper answers thereto are filed and proper conveyance and delivery made. A county or corporation court may act
under this or the preceding section, either at a monthly or quarterly term. 
38. The officer making the arrest shall be the officer to whom the conveyance shall be made. The interrogatories, answers and report of the
commissioner shall be returned to the court in which the case is pending,
and filed with the papers of such case. And the said court may make
such order as it may deem right as to the sale and proper application of
the estate conveyed and delivered under the preceding section. 
39. Before a capias is sued out of the clerk's office in any action or
suit, the plaintifff in such action or suit or some other person shall file in
the clerk's office bond with security, approved by the clerk, in a penalty
equal to the sum in which the defendant is directed to be held to bail,
payable to said defendant, and conditioned to pay him all costs nnd damages which may be awarded against the plaintifff, or sustained by tho 
defendant by reason of the arrest of the defendant under said capias. 
CH. 152. Of conflicting claims to property levied on or in possession of a. third
party. 
153. Of awards, 
OF CONFLICTING CLAIMS TO PROPERTY LEVIED ON OR IN POSSESSION
OF A THIRD PARTY. 
SP.c.
1. Proceeding when defendant dlsclolm11 In
terest in the Rnhject. How right of
third pnrty 111 tried. 
2. Ilow claim of third party tried to property dlatrumed or levied on. 
:J. Power of court in cal!rll under preceding 
sectlons, 
INTERPLEADER AND AW A.RDS. 
CHAPTER CLII. 
4. ~ Indemnifying bond to offl>r. Hls eourae
5. 5 where It is given, and where not. 
atitlt 47 
Ser.
6. Effect of such bond. Suspeudlng' bond, 
and eff',:,ct of It. As to euit on either
bond. 
,. How forthcoming bond may be taken for
property, Balo of which h811 been 11\18
pended.
8. Whfln prop<'rty eell11 for more than the 
claim, how surplus to be paid. 
I. Upon affidavit of a defendant-in any action that he claims no interest
in the t1ubject matter of the suit, but that some third party has a claim 
thereto, and that he does not collude with such third party, but is ready 
to pay or dispose of the sulljcct matter of the action as tho court may
direct, the court may make an order requiring such third party to appear
nnd state the nature of his claim, and maintain or relinquish it, and in
the mean time stay the proceedings in such nction. If such third part.y,
on being served with such order, shall not nppear, tho court may, on proof
of the pluiutiff's right, render judgment for him, and declare such third
party to be forever barred of any claim in respect of the subject matter,
either against the plaintifff, or the original defendant, or his personal representative, If such third party, on being so served, shall appear, the
court shall allow him to make himself defendant in the n.ction, and, either
in said action or otherwise, cause such issue or issues to be tried as it. may
prescribe, and may direct which party shall be considered the plaintifff in
the issues, and shall give judgment upon t110 verdict rendered on such
trial, or if a jury be waived by the parties interested, shall determine their
claims in a summary way. 
2. When property, of the value of more than twenty dollars, is taken
under a. warrant of distress, or an execution issued by a. justice, or when 
property of any mine, is taken under an execution issued by the clerk of
a. court, and any person, other than the party against whom the process
issued, claims such property, or the proceeds or value thereof, the circuit
court, or the court of the county or corporation in which the property is
taken, or the judge of such circuit court in vacation, upon the application
of the officer, where no indemnifying bond has been given, or if ono has
been given, on the application of the person who claims such property
and has given such suspending bond ns is herein after mentioned, may 
cuuse to appcnr before such court as well the party issuing such proc<'s~, as
the party making such claim, and such court may exercise, for the decision 
of their rights, all or any of the powers and authority prescribed. in the
preceding section. 
3. Such court, on the application of the party issuing said process, may 
cause to appear before it the party making such claim, and may exercise
the like powers and authority. In such case 88 is mentioned in this or 
h
di , th h b d . , " } " h 
t e prece mg section, e court, w ere no on is given tor t ie tort coming of tho property, or if it be a circuit court, the judge thereof in
vacation, may, before a decision of the rights, make an order for the sale
of the property or any part thereof, on such terms as the court or judge
may deem advisable, and for the proper application of the proceeds aoeordiug to the said rights. In any case before mentioned in this chapter, 
the court may make all such rules and orders, and enter such judgment as 
to costs and all other matters as may be just and proper. 
"f.-4)/. If nny offi~et.,levi1s or is re1uircd to lovl;,-_Oll/(~Xecpwon or a wr~rant
of dis}~ o ""'prbpe if~n~ ~ tlbubtfo~l arise ~ethep1theli&ili1~rol>.&ty
iffial'llc' to 'tuo 1 er nc may give to the plaintifff, his agent or attorney at
law, notice that an ~demnifyiug bond is required in the caee. Bond may 
thereupon be given by any person, with good security, payable to the offieer, in a. penalty equal to double the value of the property, conditioned to 
indemnify him against all damages, which he may sustain in consequence
of the seizure or sale of the said property, and to pay to any claimant of 
such property all damages which he may sustain in consequence of such
seizure or sale ; and also to warrant and defend, to any purchaser of the
property, such estate or interest therein as is sold. 
'/.5. If such bond be not given within a reasonable time after such no- 
tice, the officer may refuse to levy on such property, or restore it to the
person from whose possession it was taken, as the case may be. If it be 
given, where there has hem no levy, within a rensonable time, or after a
levy, before the property is so restored, it shall be returned within twenty
days to the clerk's office from which the execution issued, or if tho execution was not issued by a clerk, to the office of the court by which such 
officer was appointed, or in which he qualified.
6. The claimant or purchaser of such property shall, after such bond 
is so returned, be barred of any action against the officer levying thereon,
provided tho security therein be good at the time of taking it. But the 
sale of any such property shall be suspended at the instance of any
1 
' I f. h h 11 d li t ) fli b d ' h d .
c aimant t iercor, w o s a e iver o t ie o cer on wit goo security, 
in a penalty equal to double tho value thereof, payable to said officer,
conditioned to pay to all persons, who may be injured by suspending tho 
sale thereof until the claim thereto can be adjusted, such damages as
they may sustain by such suspension. Upon any such bond as is mentioned in this or the preceding section, snit may be prosecuted, in tho
name of the officer, for the benefit of the claimant, creditor, purchaser
or other person injured, and such damages recovered iu said suit as a jury 
may nsse~~. The same may be prosecuted and execution had, in the
name of such officer when he is dead, in like manner 88 if he were alive. 
7. The sheriff or other officer levying a. writ of neri facias or distress
warrant on property. the sale of which is suspended under this chnptcr at 
the instance of n claimant thereof, may, if such claimant desire the property to remain in such possession as it was immediately before the levy, 
and if the case be one in which a bond for the forthcoming of the property is not prohibited from being taken from the debtor by the sixth section of chapter one hundred and eighty-nine, take from the claimant a
bond with sufficient surety, payable to the creditor, with such recital as
is required in a forthcoming bond taken from the debtor, and with condition that the property shall be forthcoming at such day and place of sale
as may be thereafter lawfully appointed : whereupon, such property may
be permitted to remain at the risk of such claimant in such posseseion as
it was immediately before the levy; and the second, third, fifth, sixth and
seventh sections of chapter one hundred and eighty-nine shall apply to 
such forthcoming bond in like manner as to a forthcoming bond taken 
from the debtor. 
'js. When property, the sale of which is indemnified, sella for more
than enough to satisfy the execution or distress warrant, under which it
is taken, the surplus shall be paid by the officer into the court to tho office whereof the indemnifying bond is required to be returned, or as such
court may direct. The said court may take such order for the disposition thereof, either temporarily until the question 88 to the title to the
property .sold is determined, or absolutely, as in respect to the rights of
those interested may seem to it proper. 
CHAPTER CLIII. 
OF AWARDS. 
k r~ 
l. Snbmlsslon made a rule of court. 3. How award Is entered as judgment of
2. Submteston Irrevocablo : power of conrt : court. 
over it. I 4. 1''or what, award may be set aside. 
5. 1-'ldnclnry may submit to nrbltration. 
1. Persons desiring to end any controversy, whether there be a suit
pending therefore or not, may submit the same to arbitration, and agree
that such submission may be entered of record in any eourt. Upon proof
of such agreement out of court, or by consent of the parties given in
court, in person or by counsel, it shall be entered in the proceedings of
such court; and thereupon a rule shall be made, that the parties shall
submit to the award which shall be made in pursuance of such agreement. 
2. No such submission, entered, or agreed to be entered, of record in
any court, shall he revocable by any party to such submission, without 
the leave of such court; and such con rt may, from time to time, enlarge
the term within which an award is required to be made. 
3. Upon the return of any such award, made under such an agreement
(whether any previous record of the submission, or a rule thereupon, has
been made or not), it shall be entered up 88 the judgment or decree of
the court, unless good cause be shown against it at the first term after the
parties have been summoned to show cause against it.
4. No such award shall be set aside, except for errors apparent on its
face, unless it appear to have been procured by corruption, or other undue 
means, or ~at there was partiality or misbehavior in the arbitrators or
umpires, or any of them. But this section shall not be construed to take
away the power of courts of equity over awards.
5. Any personal represenjative of a decedent, guardian of an infant,
committee of an insane person, or trustee, may submit to arbitration any 
suit or matter of controversy touching the estate or property of such deoedent, infant or insane person, or in respect to which he is trustee. And 
any submission so made in good faith, and the award made thereupon,
shall be binding and entered as the judgment of a court, if so required
by the agreement, in the same manner as other submissions and awards.
No such fiduciary shall be responsible for any loss sustained by an award
adverse to the interests of his ward, insane person, or beneficiary under
any such trust, unless it was caused by his fault or neglect. f 
OF THE WRIT OF HANDA'HUS.t 
. 1
f0 i Of the return to the writ and pleadings , :: } Wb11t judgment to be rendered. 
a. 5 thereon. I 
I. ,vhen a writ of mandamus is issued, the return thereto shall state,
plainly and concisely, the matter of law or fact relied on in opposition to 
the complaint.
112. The complainant may thereupon demur to the return, or plead 
specially thereto, or both.
3. The defendant may reply, take issue on, or demur, to the pleas of 
the complainant.
4. If a verdict be found, or judgment rendered, for the person suing 
out the writ, on demurrer or by nil dicit, or for want of a replication or
other pleading, he shall recover his costs and such damages as the jury
may assess, and final judgment thereupon shall be entered and enforced
by execution, as in other cases ; and a peremptory mandamus shall be
awarded without delay, as if the return to the writ had been adjudged 
insufficient. 5. If judgment be rendered for the defendant, he shall recover Jiis 
costs. 
<iritlc 48 
MANDAMUS, PROHIBITION AND HABEAS CORPUS. 
Cn. 154. Of the writ of mandamus.
155. Of the writ of prohibition. 
156. Of the writ of habeaa corpus. 
CHAPTER CLIV. 
CHAPTER CLV. 
OF THE WRIT OF PROlbm:TION.
I. It shall not be necessary to file a suggestion on any application for
a writ or' prohibition, but the same may be applied for on affidavits only; 
and in case the party applying be directed to declare in prohibition,
before writ issued, the declaration shall be expressed to be on behalf of
such party only, and not on the behalf of the party and of the commonwealth, and shall contain and set forth, in a concise manner, so much
only of the proceeding as may be necessary to show the ground of the
application, without alleging the delivery of a writ or any contempt, and
shall conclude by praying that a writ of prohibition may issue, to which
declaration the defendant mny demur, or plead such matters, by way of
traverse or otherwise, as may be proper to ehow that the writ ought not 
to issue, and conclude by praying that such writ may not issue ; and
judgment shall be given that the writ of prohibition do or do not issue,
as justice may require; and the party in whose favor such judgment is
given, whether on verdict or otherwise, shall recover his costs; and
in case a verdict shall be given for the plaintifff, the jury may assess
damages, for which judgment shall also be given, but such assessment 
shall not be necessary to entitle the plaintifff to costs. 
CHAPTER CL VI. 
OF THE WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS.
Su. Su. 
L ~ Bow writ Issued, directed and return- 9. l Judge 11111 power of u court; force and
2. S able, 10. S etl'ect of judgml'nt. 
3. Bond may he required of petitioner. 11. flow aud when court of appeal, nm- 
4. l How writ sorved : penalty for disobey- moued to try appeal from 1mc:h judg5. 5 Ing It. mcnt. 
li. rower of the court or judge trying the 12. ,vrlt of error or auspendlug order, when
writ. prisoner remnnded : when ho is admit
}
When affidavits mav be rend: facts terl to boil. 
~proved may bo made part of tho re- 13. Writ de homlne replegiando nbollshl'fl.
cord. 14. \Vrlt11 of huboas corpus ad tc~tlficaudum. 
/; : ..... ~rh~ ~r,~t,;o,f ~1~b~as. ~?_rp~s ~ rubjic!j!J1 . ~hal~ b~ granted forth
wttli bH any circuit.court, or dny Jt\dge,. in vacation, to any person who shall apply for the same by petition, showing by affidavit, or 
other evidence, probable cause to believe that he is detained without law
ful authority.
2. The writ shall be directed to the person in whose custody tho peti
tioner is detained, and made returnable as soon as way be 'before tho
court or judge ordering the same, or any other of the said courts or
judges. 
3. The court or judge, granting the writ, may previously require bond .
with surety, in a reasonable penalty, payable to the person to whom tho
writ is directed, with condition that the petitioner will not escape by the 
way, and for the payment of such costs and charges as may be awarded 
against him. It shall be filed with the other proceedings on the writ,
R.Dd may be sued on for the benefit of any person injured by the breach 
of its condition.
4. The writ shall be served on the person to whom it is directed, or in 
his absence from the place where the petitioner is confined, on the person
'having the immediate custody of him. 
5. H any person, on whom such writ is served, shall, in disobedience
to such writ, fail to bring the body of the petitioner, with a return of the
cause of his detention, before a court or judge before whom the writ is 
returnable, for three days after such. service, or when he bas to bring the
prisoner more than twenty miles, for so many more days as is equal to 
one day for every twenty miles of such furtlter distance, he shall forfeit
to the petitioner three hundred dollars. 
6. The court or judge, before whom the petitioner is brought, after
hearing the matter, both upon the return and any other evidence, shall
either discharge or remand him, or admit him to bail, as may be proper,
and adjudge the costs of the proceeding, including the charge for transporting the prisoner, to be paid as shall. seem to be right. 
7. At the discretion of the court or judge, the affidavits of witnesses,
taken by either party, on reasonable notice to the other, may be read as 
ev~1ence. 
f All the material facts proved shall, when it is required by either
party, he made a part of the proceedings, which, when thev are had in va- 
cation, shall be signed by the judg~ and certified to the clerk of the circuit
eourt of the county or corporation in which the judgment is rendered,and be entered by him among the records of that court.
9. The judge issuing any such writ in vacation, or the judge before 
whom it is tried, shall have the same power to enforce obedience to the
writ, to compel the attendance of witnesses, or to punish contempts of
his authority, as a court has ; and his judgment on the trial of the writ,
when entered of record as aforesaid, shall be considered and be enforced
as if it were a judgment of the court, among whose records it is entered. 
10. Any such judgment entered of record shall be conclusive, unless
the same be reversed, except that the petitioner shall not be precluded
from bringing the same matter in question in an action for false imprisonment. 
11. If, <luring the recess of the court of appeals, the governor, or the
president of the court, should think the immediate revision of any such 
judgment to be proper, he may summon the court for that purpose, to
meet on any day to be fixed by him. 
12. When the prisoner is- remanded, the execution of the judgment
shall not be suspended hy the writ of error, or suspended for the purpose
of applying for one. But where he is ordered tb be discharged, and the
execution of the judgment is suspended, for the purpose of applying for
a writ of error, the court or judge making such suspending order may, in
their discretion, admit the prisoner to bail until the expiration of the
time allowed for applying for the writ of error, or, in case the writ of
error be allowed, until the decision of the court of appeels thereon is duly 
certified.
13. The writ de homine replegia.ndo is abolished. 
Writs of habeas corpus ad testificandum.
14. Writs of ha\eas COf.pll8 ad testificandum may be granted by any 
oircui( court, or' ;an)"jii<lg~thereof in vacation, in the same manner and
under the same conditions and provisions as are prescribed by this chap- 
ter, as to granting the writ of habeas corpus ad subjioiendum, so far u 
the same are applicable.
Ca. 157. Of the county and corporation court,.
158. Of the circuit courts.
159. Of the district courts.
160. Of the court of appeals.
161. General provisions relating to the court.. 
Ste.
1. For ,,.bat countie11 or corporatlon1 and 
2.1 Hu1Unp court for city of' Richmond. It3 
by what juatlces. 
162. Of juries generally. 
t' CHAPTER CL VII. 
OF THE COUNTY AND CORPORATION COURTS. f 
terma. Grand jury terms. Crlmlnala
to be remanded to judge. 
4. Jurllldlctlon of hustings conn.
5. Corporation court of' Norfolk.
6. Oorporatlon court of Pett>nburg. 
7. Corporution court of Frederlckeburg, 
8. Corporation court of' Lynchburg. 
9. Corporation court of' Staynton. 
10. Corporation court of Wllllaml!burg. 
11. Corporation court of' Wlncheshr.
12. Corporation court of Denville. 
13. Corporation court of Portsmouth. 
~itle 49 
COURTS AND JURIES. 
&c.
14. Presiding Jutlce1. How chaten. Va
cancle1 filled. Cla11Ulcatlon of JUI
tlces. 
15. Tenn, of eourts, Court, how eoastftu tcd. How long terms may coutlnue.
Change of day, for court. Clerk to
send copy of order changing term to 
clerk of' houBO of delegate11. 
16. General jurisdiction of county and corporation courts. 
17. What matten are cognizable only at a
quarterly term. 
18. Jury terms of courts, 
19. Practice of the courts. 
County and corporation courts, how held. 
f For every county andfor every corporation in which the power
. b h 11 b d b I b b 11 b 
of holding courts has een or s a e veste y aw, t ere s a e
court called the court of such county or corporation. It shall be held by 
the justices of the county or corporation, or any four or more of them,
except where it is otherwise expressly provided. 
2. There shall continue to be a court for the city of Richmond, which
shall be called " the court of hustings for the city of Richmond ; " and the 
same shall be held by the mayor, recorder and aldermen of said city, or
any four of them, except where otherwise provided; and also by a judge, 
to bo called the "judge of the hustings court."
3. A term of the hustings court for the city of Richmond, not exceed- 
. . be h d b h d d Id 
mg six days, shall el y t e mayor, reoor er an a ermen m every
month, at which shall be exercised all the jurisdiction, powers and dutiee
of the court of hustings, except such as are expressly vested in and delegated to the said court when held by the judge aforesaid. The business
of the said court, whether held by the mayor, recorder and aldermen or
by the judge, shall be distributed between monthly and quarterly terms 
ss now prescribed by law ; but the judge may designate which of his
terms shall be quarterly terms. A grand jury shall be summoned aa
now prescribed by law, to attend the terms of the said court held by the
mayor, recorder and aldermen, in February, :May, August and November. All criminals examined by the said court when held by the mayor,
recorder and aldermen, if remanded for trial, shall be sent to the said
court, at its terms held by the judge, and all depositions and recognizances shall be thereto returned. 
4. The said court of hustings shall continue to ban civil and criminal
jurisdiction, and the said mayor, recorder and aldermen and judge shall 
each have the powers of a justice of the peace, not only within the corporate limits of the said city, but also for the space of one mile on the
north side of James river, without and around said city, and every part
thereof, including so much of the said river to low water mark 011 the
shore of the county of Chesterfield, ss shall be between two lines drawn
due south from the eastem and western terminations of the one mile
aforesaid, for matters arising within the same, according to the laws of 
the eommonwealth.] 
/5. Hereafter the corporation court of Norfolk shall be held by the
justices of said corporation, or any three or more of them, except where 
it is otherwise expressly provided. 
X6. The mayor. recorder and aldermen of the city of Petersburg, or
any three of them, shall have power to hold a court of hustings for said
city. 
7. There shall be a court for the corporation of Fredericksburg, which
shall be called " the corporation court for the town of Fredericksburg," 
which shall be held by the mayor and two aldermen, or any three aldermen,
except where it is otherwise provided. 
js. Hereafter any three aldermen of the corporation of Lynchburg may
have authority to hold the monthly and quarterly sessions of the hustings
court of said corporation, except in such cases as it is otherwise expressly
provided. 
9. Thero shall continue a court for the corporation of Staunton, whicti
shall be called "the court of hustings for the town of Staunton," and the
same shall be held by the mayor, recorder and aldermen of said town, or
any three of them, except where it is otherwise provided. 
10. Hereafter the court of hustings of the city of Williamsburg shall
be held by the justices of the said city, or any three or more of them, one
of whom shall be the mayor, recorder, or last preceding mayor, except
where it is otherwise expressly provided by law. 
11. The mayor, recorder and six aldermen of the town of ",..inchester
shall constitute the court of said corporation. 
12. There shall continue to be for the town of Danville a court which 
shall be called " the court of hustings for the town of Danville," and the
same shall be held by the mayor and aldermen of said town, or any three 
or more of them, except where it is otherwise provided.
Y.13. There shall be for the city of Portsmouth a court which shall be 
called "the court of hustings for the city of Portsmouth," and the same
shall be held by the aldermen of said city, or any three or more of them,
except where it is otherwise provided." 
Presiding justices; how chosen; vacancy; classification of justices.
14. The justices of the peace, elected, commissioned and qualified, 
shall meet at their respective courthouses on the days now established by
law for holding courts in their respective oonnties, next succeeding their
election and commission ; and if a majority of those elected for the county
be present, and oommissioned, and qualify, they shall proceed to choose
one of their own body, who shall be the presiding justice of the county,
and whose duty it shall be to attend each term of such court. A reoord
shall be made of the action of the court. If from any cause such election
shali not be made on that day, a summons shall be issued for the justices
to appear at the next court, when, if a majority be present, such election
shall be made, the vote of a majority of those present being necessary for
a choice. When the office of presiding justice becomes vacant from any
cause, the court shall, all the justices being summoned, and a majority
being present, select a presiding justice of that court ; and at the first 
8688ion of a county court thus elected, and at the fint Be88ion of cve'f1
such court after a general election, or so soon as may be, all the justices
being summoned, the court shall classify the justices for the performanoe
of their duties in court; and whenever a vacancy shall occur in any district, the justice elected to supply the vacancy shall occupy the place in
said classification of the justice who preceded him.
( Terms of courts; court how constituted. .
~ There shall be in each county of the commonwealth, m four of the 
h f } f t d on s o every year, a quarter y term o every county cour, an m 
every other month, a monthly term thereof, to be held at the times and
with the jurisdiction, so far as is consistent with the constitution and this
act, now prescribed by law. The number of justices necessary to consti- 
tutc a court of oyer and terminer and a court of examination, shall be the 
ib d b I I 11 . 1 d f
same as now prescn e y aw. n a cm cases, an m matters o 
county police, and in all other cases, except criminal, the presiding justice and two other justices of the county, or in the absence of tho presi- 
ding justice, any three justices of the county, may constitute a court, except where it is now provided that more than three is necessary to consti- 
tute a court ; in which case, the number now provided shall be necessary :
provided also, that where a county levy is to be made, all the justices
shall be summoned : provided moreover, that nothing herein contained
shall be construed as repealing any of the laws now in force requiring tho
summoning.of all the justices to give validity to any action of the court.
Every such term of said courts may continue, if it be a monthly term,
not exceeding six clays, and if it be a quarterly term, not exceeding twelve
days. The court may from time to time change the day for the commencement of the terms thereof or any of them, all the acting justices of
the county or corporation being first summoned, and a majority concurring 
in such change. The clerk of such court, within thirty days after any
such change, shall send a copy of the order making it to the clerk of the 
house of delegates, and if he fail to do so shall forfeit fifty dollars in every
case in which the court of a county or corporation has, since the Code
took effect, made an order, or shall hereafter make an order, changing
the time for holding any quarterly term thereof, such order shall be
deemed valid, provided all the acting justices of such county 01corporation shall have been first summoned, and a majority concurred in such 
change.
Jurisdiction. 
1o:' The court of a county or corporation shall have jurisdiction to hear 
and determine all cases at law or in chancery within such county or corporation which are now pending or may hereafter be brought in said
court, except criminal causes against free negroes charged with felonious
homicide, or any felony, the punishment whereof may be death, and
against white persons, charged with any offense, the punishment whereof
may be death or imprisonment in the penitentiary ; and except olvil
causes to recover property or money, not of greater value or amount than
twenty dollars, exclusive of interest, and except such cases as are by Jaw 
specially 888igned to some other tribunal. The said court shall also have
jurisdiction to hear and determine all motions and other matters made
eognizable therein by any statute ; and where a motion to recover money
is allowed in a county or corporation court, otherwise than under the
sixthsection of chapter one hundred and sixty-seven, such court may
hear and determine the same, although it be to recover less than twenty 
dollars. 
'i:;. In a county or corporation court, cases of caveat, pleas of the comm'on'wealth, such motions as are provided for by the fifth section of chap
ter one hundred and sixty-seven, and actions at law, shall be cognizabls
only at a quarterly term thereof, except that tho hustings court of tht 
city of Richmond shall have cognizance of pleas of the eommonwealt]
at its monthly terms. All other matters or things, authorized by law tt 
be done by or in such court, may be done either at a monthly or quarterly term. 
~8. Each county and corporation court may designate two of the quarterly terms of such court for the trial of jury cases; and thereafter, until
it shall otherwise order, all cases cognizable in such court in which juries
are required, except cases of forcible entry and unlawful detainer, shal]
be tried only at such terms. 
19. The proceedings of the county and corporation courts shall con ..
form, as nearly as may be, to the practice of the circuit courts in like
cases, except in cases where it is otherwise provided by law. 
CHAPTER CL VIII. 
k lk
l. Circuit eourt f'or the city of Richmond 2. Circuit court of Henrleo e1tabllehed. 1t1
establiahed, It11 juriBdlctlon, powers jurlPdlctlon, powers and duties. Tran11
OF THE CIRCUIT COURTS. f 
and duties. Transfer of 11ult11, &.c. from fer of 11nit11 from previous court.
circuit court of chancery for Henrico. 3. Special jurll!dictlon of circuit court of 
Richmond. Jnrllldletlon In ault11 against
public oftlcen or publlc cot'poraUona. 
4. Circuit courts for other circuits estabIlshed, Circuit court for city of Ports
mouth ; it11 jurisdiction; lt11 clerk and
jail 
5. Jurllldlction, powers and dutles of circuit
courts. 
I. A circuit court, to be called .the "circuit court of the city of Richmond," shall be established in and for said city; and the said circuit 
court, and the judge thereof respectively, in all causes and matters, civil
and criminal, which may hereafter arise or be brought or prosecuted,
shall have and perform in and for said city, jurisdiction. powers and duties like the jurisdiction, powers and duties which other circuit courts and
the judges thereof have or may perform in and for the counties, cities or
towns for which the said courts respectively may be held. All causes and
matters which shall be depending and undetermined in the circuit court
of chancery for the county of Henrico on the dny before this act takes
effect, shall be proceeded in, tried and determined in the said circuit
court of the city of Richmond, which as to said causes and matters shall
succeed to and have the jurisdiction, powers and duties, which under the
laws in force when the constitution was adopted, would have been had or
should have been performed by the said circuit court of chancery. 
2. A circuit court, to be called the 
Sec. 
2;o ! Special tenu; when and by whom held. 
at. s 
32. Special term fol' prilonen con4ned In
jails. 
33. What cllll<!M may be trloo at 11peclal term;
when and by whom held. 
34. Compensation of judge sitting In another
circuit. 
Ternu, rr.gular and apecial; time for ltoldin8 35. Residence of Judges.
c:ourv. 36. Power to exchW1ge clrculta. 
6. In flnt circuit. ~ ! General court abolished; transfer of re7. Speelal provisions for circuit court of 40. S cords, &c. from discontinued court.L 
Norfolk city. 41. Judgmt"Dtll, deerees nnd orden of dlacon8. 'I'erms In second circuit. Jurlsdlctlon of tinned courts, how executed. 
10. In 4th circuit. In Danville. 43 l 
circuit court of Petersburg. 42. Provision as to precess, Di11contln11ance
9. Time of holding courts in 3d circuit, noto take place. 
11. Clerk and records of Danvllle court. to. Judge of the huMtings court of Richmond.
12. 'I'Imfor holding court In 5th circuit. 45. Term of court. JuriadicUon. 
Ia In 6th circuit. 46. Monthlr and quarterly t<'rma.
14. In 7th circuit. 47. Grand Juries and petlt jnrie11. 
lA. In 8th circuit. 48. Crlmlnal11 from examwlng conn 1ent to 
16. In !Ith circuit. tbi11 court.
17. In 10th clrcult. 49. Power to award lnjunctlon, habeas eee- 
18. In llth circuit. pus, mandamus and prohibition.
19. In 12th circuit. 50, AppeaJ11, how taken and allowed.
20. In 13th rircult. 51. Commouwealth's attorney.
21. In 14th circuit. ~2. Court, how held In absence of judge.
~ In 15th circuit. 5.1. Jnri&dlctlon of hustings court and judge.
23. In 16th circuit. 54. Judge, bow and when elected; hie com
if. In 17th circuit. pensatlon,
25. In 18th elrcult, 55. Rcgulatlone for election, qualidcntlon, 
98.. In l!lth circuit. &c.; how pre11erlbed.
27. In 20th circuit.
28. In 2l8t circuit. 
II 
circuit court of the county of 
Henrico," shall be established for that part of said county which is without the corporate limits of the city of Richmond; and the said circuit
court, and the judge thereof respectively, in all causes and matters, civil
and criminal, which may hereafter arise or be brought or prosecuted,
shall have and perform as to and for that part of said county, jurisdiction, powers and duties like the jurisdiction, powers and duties which
<fher circuit courts and the judges thereof Jinve or may perform in and
for the counties, cities or towns for which the said circuit courts respectively may be held. All causes and matters which shall be depending
and undetermined in the circuit court of law for the county of Henrico
on the day before this act takes effect, shall be proceeded in, tried and
determined in the said circuit court of the county of Henrico, which, as 
to said causes and matters, shall eneeeed to and have the jurisdiction, 
powers and duties which, under the Jaws in force when the constitution
wu adopted, would have been had or should have been performed by the
said circuit court of Jaw. 
3. The circuit court of the city of Richmond, except in such causes
and matters depending and undetermined as are mentioned in the 'preceding section, shall have jurisdiction of all criminal proceedings agaist
convicts in the penitentiary, and of all proceedings to enforce payment
of money to the commonwealth, and shall have all the jurisdiction which
under the laws in force when the constitution was adopted the general
oourt had, except its appeJlate jurisdiction.There shall be brought and
prosecuted in said circuit court all suits in which it may be necessary or
proper to make any of the following public officers a party defendant as
representing the commonwealth, to wit: the governor, attorney general,
treasurer, register of the land office, or either auditor, or in which it may 
be neceasary or proper to make any of the following public corporations
parties defendant, to wit : the board of the literary fund, board of publio
works, or any other public corporation composed of officers of government, of the funds and property of which the commonwealth is sole
owner, or in which it shall he attempted to enjoin or otherwise suspend
or affect any judgment or decree on behalf of the commonwealth, obtained in the general court or any circuit court holden in the city of
Richmond, or nny execution issued on such judgment or decree. 
4. For the city of Williamsburg and county of James City, and for
h . - ddi . h f . .1 ~ h f 
every ot er county in l1U tion to t e county o Henrico, anu tor eac o
the cities of Norfolk, Petersburg and Lynchburg,f there shall continue
to be established a circuit court, which shall be called the circuit court of 
such county or city, or of such city and county, as the case may be; and
such court and the judge thereof ,shall respectively have and perform all 
the jurisdiction, powers and duties which under the laws in force when
the constitution was adopted, or since enacted, would have been had or
should have been performed by the circuit court of such county or corporation, or of such city and county, or by tho judge thereof respectively. 
There shall be a separate circuit court of common law and chancery 
d' . . . , . 
Juns iction, in and for the said city of Portsmouth, which shall be held at
the courthouse or hall used as such in said city, by the judge of the :fim
judicial cireuit.t The said circuit court shall have the same power and
jurisdiction in all respects within the limits of said city, that the several
circuit courts within this commonwealth have within their respective
counties and corporations ; and the sergeant for the said city and his
deputies shall attend the said court, 'do and perform the duties, have and
exercise the powers, receive the compensation, and be liable to the penalties of a sheriff and his deputies in relation to the circuit court of his
county .. A clerk for said court shall be elected, as herein before prescribed, in like manner and for the same time as the clork of the hustings
court of said city, and shall enter into bond with security in the sum 3
ten thousand dollars. He shall perfonn similar dntieti, receive the same
oompensation, and be liable to the same penalties as other clerks of cir
ouit courts in the commonwealth, and be governed by the same general
laws. The jnil of the said city shall be used as the jail of said circuit 
oourt, and the keeper of said jail shall act as jailor of said cqurt, and
shall attend the sessions, be amenable to the authority, and obedient to
the lawful orders of said court, and shall take into his custody all persons
committed by order of said court, or by any process issuing therefrom,
and all persons committed by whatever lawful authority, for trial in said
eonrt, and shall perform all other duties and be allowed the same com ..
pensation that is prescribed and allowed by :law to the jailors attending
the respective circuit eeurts of this commonwealth. In all criminal prosecutions, where the accused shall have been ordered for further trial by
the hustings court of the city of Portsmouth, he, she or they shall be
tried in the circuit oourt for said city ; and all recognizances of such 
aecnaed person or persons, and of his, her or their sureties or bail, and of
any witness or witnesses, binding him or them to appear at the circuit
court for Norfolk county, shall be binding and obligat.ory for the appear ..
ance of such person or persons at the circuit court for tho city of Portsmouth, at the next term thereof; but in case any person or persons shall
make his, her or their appearance in the circuit court for the county of
Norfolk, in discharge of any such recognizance, it shall be the duty of
the said court to require a new recognizance to be entered into, in open
court, for his or her appearance at the next term of the circuit court for
said city of Portsmouth ; and if any such person shall fail to give such
recognizo.nce, he or she shall be committed by the sheriff of Norfolk
county to the jail of the said city until such next court ; and all sum ..
monses or other process in any enoh case shall be held returnable to the
circuit court for the said city of Portsmouth. 
X The circuit court of every county or corporation shall have jurisdiction, not only of all matters made cognizable in such court by any;. 
statute, but also concurrent with the court of such county or corporation,
in all oases in chancery and all actions at law, and in all prosecutions fo1~
misdemeanor except where it is otherwise expressly provided.
( Terms, regular and special; time for holding cott~ts. 
}6;. In every year there shall be two regular terms of each circuit court,
and the days for the commencement of the said terms shall be as follows, 
to wit : In the first circuit : For the county of Princess Anne, on the
twenty-fifth day of May and twenty-second day of September; for the 
county of Norfolk, on the first day of April and twenty-eighth day of
September ; for the county of N ansemond, on the sixteenth day of April
and twelfth day of Oct.ober; for the county of Isle of Wight, on the six ..
teenth day of May and eighteenth day of October ; for tho county of
Southampton, on the second day of May and seventh day of November;
for the county of Greenesvillc, on the twenty-eighth day of April and
second day of November; for the county of Surry, on the tenth day of
May and twenty-fifth day of October; for the county of Sussex, on the
twenty-fourth day of April and twenty-ninth day of October; for the city 
of Norfolk, on the first day of June and fifteenth day of November; and
for the city of Portsmouth, on the first day of March and the first day of
September in every year. 
'fs. It shall be lawful for the circuit court of the city of Norfolk to adjourn over annually on o, before the twenty-eighth day of November, and 
to take a. recess thenceforth unt.il the tenth day of January next ensuing, 
to resume its seesiona on the last named day, and continue to hold the
same until the tenth day of February next ensuing and no longer. In
any cause on the docket of said court, standing upon an office judgment
at the time the court so adjourns over and takes the recess aforesaid, execution may issue and be levied, and tho cause be otherwise proceeded
with as if the court had adjourned to the next regular spring term. And
any person or persons convicted in said court of any criminal offense,
may be sentenced by sa.id court prior to taking the recess aforesaid, and
the sentence be carried into execution as if the court had then adjourned
to the next regular spring term thereof. If from any cause the said com
should not resume its sessions on the tenth day of January aforesaid, it
may nevertheless be opened and held in accordance with the provisions
of the fourteenth section of chapter one hundred and sixty-one of the
Code. N otbing in this act shall operate to cause any discontinuance of,
or in any way invalidate, any process issued, or any recognizance taken,
or notice given, returnable to the present or any future fall term of said
oourt : but every such process, recognizance or notice shall be construed
and held, and shall avail as if the said court had been regularly adjourned
from day to day during the period of the recess aforesaid. Nor shall any
allowance be made to any officer of the court for attending any such adjourned session. But witnesses shall not be required to attend, and shall
not be entitled to demand or receive compensation for attendance during
said period or recess. 
"f 8. In the second circuit: For the county of Dinwiddie, on the twentieth day of March and twenty-sixth day of September; for the county
of Brunswick, on the twenty-seventh day of March and the second day 
of October ; for the county of Mecklenburg, on the second day of April
and fifteenth day of September; for the county of Lunenburg, on the
thirteenth day of April and the eighth day of October; for the county of
Nottoway, on the twentieth day of April and fifteenth day of October;
for the county of Amelia, on the twenty-fifth day of April and twentieth
day of October ; for the county of Powhatan, on the second day of May
and twenty-seventh day of October; for the county of Chesterfield, on
the seventh day of May and second day of November; for the county of
Prince George, on the seventeenth day of May and twelfth day of November; and for the city of Petersburg, on the twenty-second day of
May and sixteenth day of November.The circuit court of the city of
Petersburg shall have exclusive jurisdiction within the corporate limits of
the said city in like manner, and to the same extent that the circuit court 
of a county has within the limits of said county. 
9. In the third circuit: For the county of Cumberland on the fifth
day of March and the fifth day of August; for the county of Bucking- 
ham, on the fifth day of April and the fifth day of September; for the
oounty of Appomattox, on the twenty-first day of April and tw~nty-first
day of September; for the county of Campbell, on the eighteenth day of
May and eighteenth day of October; for the oounty of Charlotte, on the
twenty-fifth day of March and the twenty-fifth day of August; for the
oounty of Halifax, on the first day of May and the first day of October
for the county of Prince Edward, on the fifteenth day of March and the
fifteenth day of August ; for the city of Lynchburg, on the third day 3f
June and the third day of November.
10. In the fourth circuit : For the county of Patrick, on the twelfth
day of April and the twelfth day of September; for the county of Henry, 
on the first day of April and first day of September; for the county of~-6,p
Bedford, on the twenty-fifth day of April and the twenty-fifth day of 
September; for the county of Franklin, on tho fifteenth day of May and
the fifteenth day of October; for the county of Pittsylvania, on the twenty- 
eighth day of May and the twenty-eighth day of Oetober.] ,
11. There shall be held in the town of Danville, twice in each year, a 
circuit court for the said town, the jurisdiction whereof shall extend to all
oases arising within the oorporate limits of said town, over which the circuit oourt of the county of Pittsylvania now has jurisdiction ; and the said
court shall be held on the twenty-second day of March and on the twentysecond day of August, by the judge of the fourth judicial circuit. There
shall be held an election for clerk of said court, at the general election
on the fourth Thursday. in May eighteen hundred and sixty, who shall 
continue in office until the next regular election of the clerk of the hustings oourt of said town, and then regularly thereafter. The records of
said court shall be preserved and kept in the clerk's office of the hustings
oourt of said town until the said hustings court shall provide a different
place for such reoords.t 
12. In the fifth circuit : For the county of Northampton, on the third
Monday in April and the third Monday in October; and for the county of 
Accomack, on the first Monday in May and the first day of November.
13. In the sixth circuit; For the county of Elizabeth City, on the fif- 
teenth day of March and fifteenth day of September; for the county of
Warwick, on the twenty-first day of March and twenty-first day of September; for the county of York, on the twenty-sixth day of March and
twenty-sixth day of September; for the county of Gloucester, on the
thirteenth day of April and thirteenth day of October; for the county of
Matthews, on the sixth day of April and sixth day of October; for the
county of Middlesex, on the first day of April and first day of October;
for the county of Henrico, on the twenty-fifth day of April and twentyfifth day of October ; for the county of New Kent, on the tenth day of
May and tenth day of November; for the county of Charles City, on the
eighteenth df Y of May and eighteenth day of November;and for the
county of James City and city of Williamsburg, on the twenty-fifth dny
of May and twenty-fifth day of November. 
Y14. In the seventh circuit: For the city of Richmond, on the first day 
of November and first day of May.15. In the eighth circuit : For the county of Lancaster, on the fif- 
teenth day of April and the second day of November; for the county of
Northumberland, on the ninth day of April &nd the twenty-eighth clay of
October; for the county of Richmond, on the third day of April and the 
twenty-third day of October; for the county of Westmoreland, on the 
&enty-eightb day of March and the eighteenth day of October ; for the
county of King George, on the twenty-third day of March and the
twelfth day of September ; for the county of j,potsylvania, on the twentieth day of May and the sixth day of October ; for the county of Caroline, on the fiftlt day of March and the eighteenth day of September; for
the county of Hanover, on the tenth day of )larch and the twenty-sixth
day of September; for the county of King William, on the thirteenth
day of May and the twenty-fifth day of November; for the ooanty of
King & Queen, on the second day of May aad the nineteenth day of
November; and for the county of Essex, on the twenty-fifth day of April
and the twelfth day of November.f 
\.J 16. In the ninth circuit: For the county of Stafford, on the fourth
Monday in March and fourth Monday in September ; for the county of 
pwnu th d M 1- ' M d th d '1 d
nnce 1 am, on e seeon onwty m ay an e seeon JD.OD ay 
in October; for the county of1 Alexandria, on the third Monday in May 
and second Monday in November; for the county of Fairfax, on the
first Monday in June and first Monday in November; for the county of
Loudoun, on the fourth Monday in April and the third Monday in October; for the county of Fauquier, on the Tuesday after the first Monday
in April and the Tuesday after the first Monday in September; for the
county of Rappahannock, on the third Monday in March and the first
Monday in Oetober.t 
17. In the tenth circuit: For the county of Culpeper, on the first
Monday in June and the first Monday in November.; for the county of 
Greene, on the third Monday in June and the third Monday in November ; for the county of Orange, on the first day of May and the first day 
of October; for the county of Louisa, on the twentieth day of April and
the twentieth day of September; for the county of Goochland, on the
first day of April and tho first day of September ; for the county of Fluvanna, on tho tenth dn.y of April and the tenth day of September; for
the county of Madison, on the first Monday in March and the first Monday in August; and for the county of Albemarle, on the second Monday 
in May and the second Monday in October.
18. In the eleventh circuit : For the county of N elson, on the twenty
seventh day of April and twenty-seventh day of September; for the
county of Amherst, on the twenty-second day of March and twenty- 
second day ef August ; for the county of Rockbridge, on t~e twelfth day 
of April and twelfth day of September; for the county of Augusta, on
the first day of June and first day of November; and for the county of 
Bath, on the fifteenth day of May and fifteenth day of October.
19. In the twelfth circuit: For the county of Warren, on the twenty- 
fifth day of March and twenty-fifth day of August; for the county of~R.~Shenandoah, on the thirtieth day of March and the thirtieth day of 
August; for the county of Page, on the eleventh day of April and the
eleventh day of September; for the county of Hardy, on the twentie!h
day of April and twentieth day of Sept.ember; for the county of Pendleton, on the twenty-seventh do.y of April and twenty-seventh day of September; for the county of Highland, on the second day of May and the
second day of October; for thecounty of Rockingham, on the eleventh
day of May and the eleventh day of October. 
20. In the thirteenth circuit : For the county of Clarke, on the twelfth
day of May and twelfth day of October; for the county of Frederick, on
the tenth day of Jone and tenth day of N ovembcr; for the county of 
Hampshire, on the fifth day of April and fifth day of September ; for the
county of Morgan, on the sixth day of May and the sixth day of October;
for the county of Berkeley, on the twenty-fourth day of April and twentyfourth day of September; and for the county of Jefferson, on the twentieth day of May and the twentieth day of October. 
21. For the county of Pocahontas, on the sixteenth day of April and
September; for the county of Monroe, on the twenty-fifth day of April 
and Septemberfor the oounw of Greenbrier on the eighth day of Mn:y 
, ~ ' .. 
and October; for the county of Botetourt, on the twenty-sixth day of May
and October; for the county of Alleghany, the ninth day of April and
September; for the county of Craig, the Tuesday after the third Monday
in Maich and August ; for the county of Roanoke, the Wednesday after
the fourth Monday in March and August.
22. For the county of Clay, on the first day of April and September;
for the county of Nicholas, on the sixth day of April and September; for
lhe county of Webster, on the fourteenth day of April and September; 
for the county of Raleigh, on the third :Monday in April and September;
for the county of Wyoming, on the fourth Monday in April and September; for the county of Logan, on the first Monday after the fourth Monday in April and September; for the county of Boone, on the second
Monday after the fourth Monday in April and September; for the county 
of Giles, on the twentieth day of May and October; for the county of
Mercer, on the twenty-seventh day of May and October; for the county
of Fayette, on the seventh day of June and November.f 
23. In the sixteenth circuit : For the county of Carroll, on the Monday before the last Monday in March and August; for the county of
Floyd, on the first ~londay in April and September; for the county of 
Montgomery, on tho second Monday in April and September; for the
oounty of Pulaski, on the third Monday in April and September; for the
county of Grayson, on the fourth Monday in April and September; and
for the county of Wythe, on the first Monday in May and October. 
Y24, In the seventeenth circuit: For the oounty of Smyth, on the lint
Monday in April and September; for the county of Tazewell, on the l88t 
Monday of March and Augnst; for the county of Washington, on the
second Monday in April and September; for the county of Russell, on
the fourth Monday in April and September; for the county of Wise, on
the first Monday after the fourth Monday in April and September; for
the county of Lee, on the second Monday after the fourth Monday in
April and September; and for the county of Scott, on the third Monday
after the fourth Monday in April and September. 
25. For the county of Wayne, on the twentieth day of March and the
twentieth day of August; for the county of Cabell, on the twenty-seventh
day of March and the twenty-seventh day of August; for the county of 
Putnam, on the eighth day of April and the eighth day of September;
for the county of Mason, on tho eighteenth day of April and the eighteenth
day of September; for the county of Jackson, on the second day of May
and the second day of October; for the county of Roane, on the seventeenth day of May and tho seventeenth day of October ; for the county
of Kanawha, on the twenty-seventh day of May and the twenty-seventh
day of Octobcr.s 
26. In the nineteenth circuit : For the county of Ritchie, on the
fifteenth of March and the fifteenth of August; for the county of Wirt,
on the third of April and the third of September; for the county of Cal- 
houn, on the twelfth day of April and the twelfth day of September ; for
the county of Gilmer, on the nineteenth of April and the nineteenth of
September; for the county of Braxton, on the twenty-seventh of April
and twenty-seventh of September; for the county of Lewis, on the eighth
of May and the eighth of October; for the county of Doddridge, on the
twenty-second of May and the twenty-second of October; for the county
of Pleasants, on the thirtieth of May and the thirtieth of October; and
for the county of Wood, on the fifth of June and the fifth of November. 
27. For the county of Hancock, on the tenth day of March and the
tenth day of August; for the county of Brooke, on the eighteenth day of 
March and the eighteenth day of August; for the county of Ohio, on the
tenth day of May and the tenth day of October; for the county of Marshall, on the first day of May and the first day of October; for the oounty
of W ctzel, on the twelfth day of April and the twelfth day of September; for the county of Tyler, on the twenty-second day of April and
the twenty-second clay of September; and for the county of Monongalia,
on the first day of April and tho first day of September.f 
28. In the twenty-first circuit: For the county of Taylor, the fourth
day of March and the fourth clay of August; for the county of Preston,
the eighteenth day of March and the eighteenth day of August; for the 
county of Upshur, the fourth day of April and the fourth clay of Septemher; for the county of Harrison, the fifteenth day of April and the 
fifteenth day of September; for the county of Barbour, the eighth day of
May and the eighth day of October; for the county of Tucker, the twenT 
ty-seoond day of May and the twenty-second day of October; for Ran
dolph county, the twenty-sixth day of May and the twenty-sixth day of
,Oct:ober i for the county of Marion, the tenth day of June and the tenth 
lf29. If any term of a circuit court is to end, or has ended, without 
day of November." 
, 
petehing all its business, or if there be a failure to hold any term, the
. d f h . . if h r. 1 ~ d h died th th . d 
JU ge o sue circuit, or e .181 "' o so, or ave 1 , e o er JU ge
of the same circuit or district shall, by an order entered in such court, or 
by a warrant directed to the clerk, appoint a special term thereof, and
prescribe in such order or warrant whether a grand jury or any venire is 
to be summoned to attend the said term. The clerk shall mform the
attorney for the commonwealth and the sheriff or sergeant of such
appointment, post a copy of the order or warrant at the door of the
courthouse aud issue all proper process returnable to such special term
and the sheriff or sergeant shall execute such process and summon a
grand jury, if by such order or warrant the same be prescribed. 
30. When, under this chapter, a special term of the circuit court of
the city of Richmond is to be appointed by the other judge of the district,
the judge of the sixth circuit shall be deemed such other judge. And
when a special term is to be appointed of any circuit court in the sixth
circuit, the judge of the circuit court of said city shall be deemed the 
other judge of the district.f
31. Whenever any judge of a circuit court shall have appointed a spe- 
eial term of any circuit court, by adjournment or warrant in the manner
directed by the twenty-ninth section of this chapter, and he shall afterwards ascertain that he cannot hold the said special term on the day appointed for it, he may, by warrant under his hand, directed to the clerk
of the court, acljourn it to such other day ea he may deem proper. Such
warrant shall be transmitted by the judge to the clerk, who shall immediately enter tho said warrant in the order book of the court, and as to
the said special term thereafter to be held under the said continuance,
proceed in all other respects in the manner directed by the section
aforesaid.
32. Whenever the situation of a prisoner confined in jail for trial in a
circuit court makes it proper that his case should be disposed of before 
the next regular term thereof, the judge of such court may appoint a special term to be holden for the trial of the case, in the same manner as if
the same had stood for trial at the next preceding term, and the court had
adjourned without disposing thereof. 
33. At any such special term any civil cause may be tried which could
lawfully have been, but was not tried at the last preceding term that was
or should have been held; and any motion cognizable by such court may 

be heard and determined, whether it was pending at the. preceding term
or not; and any criminal cause may be tried at such special term as if it 
were a regular term, and although at the regular term next preceding,
the same may have been continued: and any cause or matter of contro
versy in chancery then ready for hearing, may be heard and determined,
with the consent of the parties to such cause or controversy, although it
oould not lawfully have been heard at the next preceding term that was
or should have been held. Every such special term may be held by the
judge of the circuit; or, if he be dead or absent, by the other judge of
the same circuit or district; or, if neither be present, by any other circuit
judge who may be present; and it may be held, part of its session by one 
judge and part of it by another: and such special terms may be adjourned
from time to time during the intervals between the regular terms, as to
the judge may seem necessary for the dispatch of the business of the
court.s 
34. Any judge of one circuit, sitting in another, nnder either of the
three preceding sections, shall, in addition to his annual salary, receive
ten dollars per day for each day of such session, and mileage for travel 
Residence of judge, and poicer of exchanging circuits.
35. Each circuit judge, during his continuance in office, shall reside in 
the circuit of which he is judge.
36. Any two circuit judges may at any time make an exchange with 
each other of their respective circuits for a period not longer than one
year, by an agreement recorded in the court in which each of them shall
first sit under such exchange; and without a formal exchange of circuits,
if any judge of a circuit court fail to attend a regular term of hie. court,
or be prevented from sitting during the whole term, or be so situated in 
respect to any cause pending in said court, as in his opinion to make it
improper for him to try it, any other circuit judge may hold said court
either for the whole term or any part thereof. 
Transfer of records, ~-c. from discontinued courts. 
f 37. As to the general court, which it is hereby declared is not to continue after the first day of July eighteen hundred and fifty-two, the paper8 and records of all causes and matters which on that day shall be depending and undetermined therein, and all books, records and papers 

whatsoever, which on the said day may be in the custody of its clerk,
shall be transferred to and remain in custody of the clerk of the circuit 
court of the city of Richmond. But the papers of those causes and matters depending and undetermined in the genera] court on that day, of
which the said court had appellate jurisdiction, nnd copies of the proceedings in said causes, shall, within one month after that day, or after
the election of the first clerk of said circuit court (whichever shall happen last), be delivered by him to the clerk of the suprenw court of appeals at Richmond. 
38. The papers and records of all causes and matters which, on the
said first day of July, shall be depending and undetermined in the circuit
court of chancery for the county of Henrico, and all books, records and 
papers, which on the said day may be in the custody of its clerk, shall
also be transferred to and remain in the custody of the clerk of the said
circuit court of the city of Richmond. 
39. The papers and records of all causes and matters which, on the
said first day of July, shall be depending and undetermined in tho circuit
court of law for the county of Henrico, and all books, records and papers
which on the said day may be in the custody of its clerk, shall be transferred to and remain in the custody of the clerk of the circuit court of
the county of Henrico. 
40. The papers and records of all causes and matters depending and
undetermined in any other circuit court on the said first day of July,
and all books, records and papers whatever, which on the said day shall
be in the custody of its clerk, shall remain in custody of tho clerk of the
same court, or of such court as succeeds to or has its jurisdiction. 
41. Every judgment, decree or order entered in a court which shall
have ceased to exist, shall be executed by the court in custody of whose
clerk the record of such judgment, decree or order may remain, or by
means of process issued from the clerk's office of the last mentioned
court; and to such court shall be certified every judgment, decree or order of an appellate court touching any judgment, decree or order so entered, and the case shall be proceeded in as if such court had rendered
the same. 
42. Although a notice, recognizance or process shall have been given,
taken or issued before the day prescribed for the commencement of any
act passed by the general assembly at its present session.the same may
nevertheless be given, taken or returnable to a day after its commencement, or to a court established by it, or the clerk's office of such court,
in like manner as if such act had commenced before the same was given,
taken or issued ; and nothing in any act passed at the present session of
the general assembly shnll operate to discontinue any cause or matter, 
civil or criminal, which shall be depending and undetermined in any
court on the said first day of July ; but every such cause or matter shall
be proceeded in, tried and determined in such court, or in the court
which as to said cause or matter succeeds to or has its jurisdiction. 
Judge of the hustings court ef Richmond.s
43. There shall continue to be a court for tho said corporation, called 
.. the court of hustings for the city of Richmond;" and the same shall be
held by the mayor, recorder and aldermen of the said city, or any four of 
them, except where otherwise provided; and also by o. judge, to be called
"the Judge of the hustings court." 
44. A term of the said court, not exceeding twenty days, shall be held 
by the said judge, in every month, at. such time and place as the council
of the said city shall prescribe ; at which term the said court shall exercise exclusively the jurisdiction now vested in it over all civil eases, and
matters at law and in chancery, all matters concerning the probate of
wills, the appointment, qualification and removal of fiduciaries, and the
settlement of their accounts, and all other civil proceedings, except those
relating to apprentices, bastards, the registration of free negroes, and
matters of police. 
45. The said court, at the terms held by the judge, shall have original
jurisdiction of all felonies committed within the territorial limits of its
jurisdiction, and appellate jurisdiction in such cases arising under the
ordinances of the said city as shall be prescribed by the council thereof. 
46. The business of the said court shall be distributed between monthly
and quarterly terms, as now prescribed by law; but the judge may desig
nate which of his terms shall be quarterly terms.
47. A grand jury shall be summoned, as now prescribed by law, to at- 
tend the terms held by the judge immediately succeeding his quarterly
terms; which grand jury shall be charged by the judge. All provisionsof law conceming grand and petit juries, applicable to circuit courts,
shall apply to the said court, when held by the judge thereof. 
48. All criminals examined by the said court, when held by the mayor,
recorder and aldermen, if remanded for trial, shall be sent to the said
court, at its terms held by the judge, and all depositions and recognizances shall be thereto returned. 
49. The said court held by the judge, and the said judge respectively,
shall have the same power as a circuit court or circuit juclge, to award injunctions, writs of habeas corpus, mandamus and prohibition. 
50. Appeals, writs of error and writs of eupersedeas, from and to judgments, decrees and orders of the said court, held by the judge, shall be 
taken and allowed as if they were from or to those of a circuit court or a
circuit judge. 
51. The commonwealth's attorney for the circuit court of the city of
Richmond shall prosecute in all cases of felony in the said court of hustings held by the judge thereof. 
52. During the absence of the said judge, or his inability from any cause
to hold the terms of his court, the same may be held by any circuit judge,
-whose compensation shall be fixed, and paid by the council of the said
city. And the said court, when held by the judge, or the said judge, may
remove causes to any circuit court, for the same causes and in the same
manner as are prescribed by law for the removal of causes from one circuit court to another. 
53. The said court of hustings shall continue to have civil and criminal jurisdiction, and the said mayor, recorder and aldermen and judge 
shall each have the powers of a justice of the peace, not only within the
corporate limits of the said city, hut also for the spa-0e of one mile on the
north side of James river, without and around said city, and every part
thereof, including so much of the said river to low water mark on the
shore of the county of Chesterfield, as shall-be between two lines drawn
due south from the eastern and western terminations of the one mile 
aforesaid, for matters a.rising within the same, according to the laws of
the commonwealth. 
54. And there shall be elected, by the qualified voters of the said city,
at such time and place as the council of the said city shall prescribe, a 
judge of the court of hustings ?or the said city, who shall hold his office
for the term of eight years, and shall receive such compensation as may
be allowed by the said council : provided, that his election shall not take
place within thirty days of any municipal or state election in the said city,
and that his compensation shall not be diminished during his term of office. 
55. The manner of conducting his election, of making the return thereof, of his qualification, of ordering new elections to fill vacancies in his
office, and of deciding disputed elections, shall be prescribed by ordinance 
to be enacted by the council of the said city. 
,., 
I - 
:..-';
,,,. 
.'
~ ::!/ 
)(HAFTER CLIX. 
<F \HE DISTRICT COURTS,
1. When time for holding dlatrict- court may 
be fixed by court.
2. Term11 of court ; time for holding them, 
and places where held.
3. When building prescribed, ls not in pro
per condition, where court Is to sit. 
4. Clerks of courts; their term of office. 
S. Place of reaidence and whore his office 111 
kept.
6. Report of clerk to clerk of house of 
delegates. 
Sec.
7. l Duties and fees of clerks; fees, how col
8. 5 lected. 
9. Fees for public services.
10. Clerks to account with auditor, and 
when.
11. Criers of courts; bow appointed; term 
of office and componeatlon. 12. Contingent expense account of courts. 
i~:} Jurlsdlction of district courts. 
Terms, places and times of holding courts.
)11. Any district court may hereafter be held at such time or times as 
shall have been previously ordered by such court or a district court of the
same judicial section; but unless changed by any such order, the times
for holding the said courts shall remain as now fixed by law. 
X-2. In every year there shall be one term of each district court, and
the da.y for ita commencement and the place of holding the court shall be
as follows: For the first district, on the fifteenth day of December, at the
courthouse of the town of Petersburg ; for the second district, on the first 
day of December, at the courthouse of the town of Lynchburg; for the
third district, on the fifteenth day of December, at the courthouse of the
city of Williamsburg; for the fourth district, on the first day of December, at the courthouse in the town of Frpdericksburg : for the fifth district, on the first day of December, at the courthouse of Albemarle
county; for the sixth district, on the fifteenth day of December, at the
courthouse in the town of Winchester; for the seventh district, on the.
first day of December, at the courthouse of Monroe county; for the
eighth district, on the fifteenth day of December, at the courthouse of
Wa~hington county; for the ninth district, on the fifteenth day of December, at the courthouse of ,v ood county; for the tenth district, on the
first day of December, at the courthouse of Marion county. 
3. When the building prescribed for a district court to sit in is not in a
condition to be occupied, such court shall hold its sessions at such place
as may be appointed by its order, or by warrant of three judges thereof
in vacation directed to the clerk ; and if no place be so appointed, then
at such place as may, under the ninth section of chapter one hundred a.nd 
sixty-one, be appointed by the court of that county or corporation in
which the district court is by law to sit.
Clerks of district courts; their term, place of residence and office.
4. There shall be a clerk of every district court. The term of hi! 
office shall be six years. f 
5. Every clerk of a district court shall reside within the county or corporation wherein said court is held ; and his office shall be kept in the 
building wherein said court is held, or at such other place as the court
may direct. 
Report to clerk of house of delegates.
6. Every clerk of a district court shall, annually, before the first day 
of November, make to the clerk of the house of delegates a report of the
number of days the court was in session within the year ending on the
last day of August preceding. and the state of the business in the court
during the said year; which report shall be made out as the report of a
clerk of the court of appeals is required to be made out; and for a failure,
to make it, there may be a like fine. 
Duties and fees of clerks ; fees, how collected.
7. The clerk of a district court shall in other matters perform duties 
similar to those of a clerk of the court of appeals ; and for like servieee
he shall have like fees as a clerk of the court of appeals ; and the said
fees shall be charged, and the fee hills therefore made out, collected and
accounted for in like manner. 
8. The clerk of any district courtt may, for services rendered to the
appellant ( or plaintifff), issue his fee bills jointly against said appellant
(or plaintifff) and the surety on the bond given by him on obtaining tho
appeal, writ of error or supereedoas : provided the said fee bills with the
other claims on said bond will not altogether exceed the penalty thereof. 
9. There shall be paid out of the treasury, to the clerk of each district
court (on the order of said court), as follows, to wit: For services rendered the commonwealth in a civil case, such fees as would be charged
for the like services rendered to an individual; and for other public ser
'vlces, such sum as the court may allow him, not exceeding one hundred
dollars in any one year. 
Clerk to account to auditor.
IO. The clerk of each district court shall annually render to the audi- 
tor of public accounts an account of all money received by him within 
the preceding fiscal year for records printed, and after swearing to the 
correctness of said account, shall pay into the treasury, on or before the
fifteenth day of December next following, one-half of said money, or of
so much thereof as may not have been previously accounted for and paid. 
Criers of courts.
11. No sheriff shall attend a district court. Each district court may 
appoint a crier, who shall hold his office at its pleasure, and receive out
of the treasury such reasonable compensation as it may allow. 
Contingent expense account of district courts.
12. The account kept in the auditor's office, for the contingent ex- 
penses of the court of appeals RDd circuit courts, shall include also the
contingent expenses of the district courts. 
Jurisdiction of district courts.
13. Each district court shall have jurisdiction to issue writs of manda- 
mnand prohibition to a circuit court held within the district.
14. The district courts shall have jurisdiction in cases of habeas eor- 
pus, and of such apgeals, writs of error and supersedeas as may be legally docketed in or transferred to the said courts. t 
/( I ( ( C 
OF THE COURT OF APPEALB.t
'ii/ 
I
Sec. I 
l. Conslst11 ot president and four other
Judgt-11. 
2. ,vhen president Is absent, who presides.
~o l Jurladlctlon ot con rt. 
:d 
! l Timee and places or sesstoa.
9. 5 
7. Bu,lnP1111 to he clone at Lewlsbnrg, 
8. Bu11iu111~ to ht- done at Richmond.
9. Powers ond duties or courts. Bond or 114. 
rlcrkH, where token. 
j 
CHAPTER CLX. 
' 
I 
I 
&c. 
l Appellate jurisdiction in criminal cast's.
10: 
9 
S ~tr0a~:~~r,.f causes Crom one place to 
11. As to cases or prohibition or mandamus
Special court, of apptala. 
12. Docket of old c1U1c11, how rnade ; exceptlons. Objection to transfer. 
13. When, how nud where transferable,
Records, &<.'. transmitted. 
Speclul courts, bow formed. To try
coses on docket at Rlchmoud. 
St,e. S~
15. How v&anclca ln the court supplied. 23.
16. C81C11 In which supremo court judges 24. 
cannot sit. 25.
17. How such c1111es disposed or. Where 26. 
court for thelr trial to be held. 27. 
18. 'I'ransfer or cusca from one court to another. 28. 
19. Term of district special court. 29.
20. Court at Richmond, when to commence. 30. 
21. Duttes of courts not to lntorfero with
other judicial duties. 
22. Who acts as clerke of speelal courts. 
Clerk of district special courts.
Dockets or courts. 
Deelslona, bow certified.
ln dlstriet special courts, how. 
Crier appointed for speclul court. His
term of office and compensation. 
Pay or Judges.
Order In which eauses are to be beard. 
Tipeto.ff' and crier to court of appoals.
Their compensation. Removable from 
office. 
Supreme court of appeals. 
-; J. The supreme court of appeals shall continue aa now organized, and
consist of the five judges thereof now in eommiseion, and as vacancies oc
cur, they shall be filled, so that there shall be a president and four other
judges of said court. 
2. In the absence of the president, the eldest judge in commission present shall be the presiding judge. 
Its jurisdiction.
3. The supreme court of appeals and the judges thereof shnll respee- 
l d d h all h 11 . . dl . hi l d th
tive y succee to an ave t e appe ate juns tenon w ie 1, un er ne 
laws in force at or since the adoption of the constitution, could have been
exercised by the general court or the judges thereof.
\ 4. The said supreme court, besides having jurisdiction of all such matters as are now pending therein, shall have jurisdiction to issue writs of
mandamus and prohibition to the district courts. It shall also have jurisdiction to issue a writ of mandamus to a. circuit court, when necessary to
carry into effect any judgment or decree of its own or of any special court
of appeals. 
5. The supreme court of appeals shall have jurisdiction in cases of habeas corpus, and of such appeals, writs of error anti supersedeas as may
be legally docketed in or transferred to the said court.s 
Times and places of its sessions ; and the business at each place, 
7'6The said court shall hold a session annually at Lewisburg in the
county of Greenbrier, to commence at such time as the court may from 
time to time direct, and to continue at least ninety days, if the business
di
h
d
d
h th h 
. h
be not sooner spate e ; an anot er at e state court ouse m t e 
city of Richmond, to commence at such time and to be divided into such
terms as the court has directed, or may from time to time direct, and to 
continue at least one hundred and sixty days, unless the business be sooner
dispatched. 
j.:;. The court at its sessions at Lewisburg shall hear and determine all
appeals, writs of error or snpersedeaa pending there when this chapterf~~P-~,c.42 
takes effect, or which may be brought to the court of appeals from or to
decrees, judgments, sentences or orders of courts which are held on the 
western side of the Blue Ridge of mountains, except the counties of J efferson, Berkeley, Morgan and Frederick. 
1's. The said court at its sessions at Richmond shall hear and determine
all appeals, write of error or eupersedeas pending there when this chapter 
takes effect, or which may be brought to the court of appeals from or to
decrees, judgments, sentences or orders of any court held on the eastern
side of the said Blue Ridge, or in the counties of Jefferson, Morgan,
Berkeley or Frederick. 
9. The sessions and terms of the supreme court of appeals, and the
powers and duties of the court at each place of session, shall continueaccording to the laws in force at or since the adoption of the constitution,
except that the court at one place of session may also, if it see fit, appoint,
and take bond from the clerk of the court at the other place, and except
likewise that the appellate jurisdiction of said court in any criminal case
tnay be exercised at either place of session, no matter in what county or
corporation, the circuit court may have been held which rendered the judgment in such case ; and a criminal case pending in said court at one place
ma, at any time by its order be transferred to the other, and be there 
heard and determined. 
" IO. By consent of the parties or their counsel, any cause pending in
said court at one place may be transferred to the other, there to be heard 
and determined.
~ 11. Writs of prohibition or mandamus from the court of appeals to
any superior court shall issue and be tried at the place of session of said 
court of appeals, at which writs of error to such superior court are to be
tried. 
Of special courts of appeals.', 12. The clerks of the court of appeals a.t Richmond and Lewisburg 
shall, within ten days after the first day of J nne next, make dockets of
such of the cases pending in said courts on the first day of June, as remained on the dockets of the courts when the judges thereof ceased to 
hold their offices under the late constitution, except such cases in which
the matter in controversy is merely pecuniary, and not of greater amount
than five hundred dollars, at the date of the judgment or decree, exclusive of costs ; on which dockets, so to be made, there shall be a column,
wherein, opposite any case which any party thereto, or his counsel, may
be unwilling should be transferred to a special court of appeals for a dis- 
trict, there may be written the word "Object;" which shall be signed by
such party or his counsel.
113. Every case on said dockets in which there may not, before the fifteenth day of October next, be such objection in writing, and all cases
embraced in the exception in the preceding section," shall be transferred
to a special court of appeals for the district, embracing the place wherein
was made or rendered the judgment, decree or order, from or to which
the appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas, in such case, was allowed. The
record and papers in such case, with copies of all orders made, and a
statement of the costs incurred by each party therein shall, as soon as
practicable after the said fifteenth day of October next, be transmitted by
the said clerk to the clerk of the district court for said district. 
: 14. To try the cases mentioned in the twelfth section, special courts of
appeals shall be formed as follows : The judges of each district court, or 
any three or more of them (except as herein after mentioned), shall be a.
special court of appeals for such district, to try such of said cases as are
transferred thereto, under the thirteenth section. And to try the residue
of the cases mentioned in the twelfth section, remaining on the docket of
the court at Richmond, there shall be a special court of appeals holden
at the state courthouse in Richmond, which shall be formed of the four
judges of the present circuit courts, who in part constituted a special court
of appeals, holden at the state courthouse in Richmond prior to the first
day of July one thousand eight hundred and fifty-two; and of that judge
of a circuit court who would, in respect to precedence and seniority, be
next in commission to those four, according to the commissions prior to
the said first day of July one thousand eight hundred and fifty-two; that
is to say, the said special court of appeals, so to be holden in Richmond,
shall he holden by the present judges of the tenth, eighth, third, eleventh
and sixth circuits, or any three or more of them. And the said judge of
the sixth circuit shall not he a judge of the special court of appeals for
his district. 
! 15. If the office of any of the judges designated,in the preceding section to hold said special court in Richmond be vacant from any cause,
or if any of the said judges should be absent at any term of said special
court, or the district court of which he is a judge should have reason to 
believe that he will be so absent, the said district court or the judges
thereof sitting as a special court of appeals, as the case may be, may appoint some other of the judges of the circuit courts in the place of the
judge so absent, or whose office may be vacant; and the judge so appointed shall perform all the duties of a judge of the special court of appeals to be holden at Richmond, in the absence of the judge for whom he 
shall be so substituted. 
116. If at any time there be on the docket of the supreme court of appeals, at either place of session, a case in respect to which a majority of
the judges of said court are so situated as to make it improper for them
to sit on the hearing thereof, that fnct shall be entered of record. 
f 17. The said court may thereupon, in its discretion, either transfer
such case to the special court of appeals holden in Richmond, or appoint 
and have summoned, from among the judges of the circuit courts, so
many as, with the judges of the supreme court of appeals not so situated,
will make tho number five. In the latter case, they shall together form
and hold a special court of appeals, to hear and determine snob case at
such time as a majority of them shall see fit; and it shall be held at
Richmond or Lewisburg, according as the case may be depending, at the 
one place or the other. 
"I 18. Any special court of appeals may, by consent, or for good cause
shown, transfer a case pending therein, to another special court of ap
peals. 
I 19. Each special court of appeals, formed of judges of a district court,
shall annually commence its session on such day as the said district court 
may designate; and such special court shall be held at the place fixed by
law for holding such district court. 
' 20. The special court of appeals in Richmond shall annually commence
its session on the first Monday in January. 
l 21. Any special court of appeals may adjourn from time to time and
may sit as often and as long as it may consider it can properly sit, without interfering with the duties of the judges as judges of the circuit courts
and district courts. But no judge of the supreme court of appeals shall
sit in any special court of appeals formed under the fourteenth section of
this chapter, while the said supreme court is in session.
, 22. The clerk of the supreme court of appeals, at a place at which a
special court of appeals is holden, shall, in person or by deputy, attend 
such special court, with the records and papers in the cases which it is to
hear and determine, and act as the clerk of such special court. 
t 23. The clerk of a district court shall, in person or by deputy, attend
the special court of appeals formed of the judges of such district court,
with the records and papers in the cases which it is to hear and determine, and act as its clerk. 
\,.24, A docket of the cases to be tried by each special court of appeals
shall be made out by its clerk. Said court shall have control over said
docket, and may correct any mistake therein. It shall proceed to hear
and determine all causes on its docket, as so made out or corrected. 
'/ 25. The decisions of a special court of appeals, holden in Richmond or
Lewisburg, shall be certified and carried into execution as if made by the 
s?nreme court of appeals.
' 26. The decisions of a special court of appeals, formed of judges of a 
district court, shall be certified and carried into execution as if made by
such district court. 
-. 27. No sheriff shall attend a special court of appeals. Every such court
may appoint a crier, who shall hold his office at its pleasure, and receive 
out of the treasury such reasonable compensation as it may allow .
.' 28. Each judge of a special court of appeals shall have ten dollars per 
day for e'\"ery day's attendance on any such special court.
29. The supreme court of appeals at Richmond shall, after the fifteenth 
day of October next, proceed to hear and determine other causes depending therein, in preference to those on the docket of the special court of 
appeals holden in Richmond. But any cause on the docket of the said
special court, which shall not have been tried by it, the said supreme
court may hear and determine, when it can do so without, in its opinion,
interfering with other cases in the said supreme court. 
GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE COURTS. 
Sec.
I. Seals for the courts. 
2. Jurlt!dlctlon of courts of counties on wa
tcr courses. 
3. By what number of judges II court may 
be held, and how long It may alt. 
Power of circuit court of Richmond
city to adjourn court. 
4. Power of courts of appeals to prescribe
forms of wrlt11, and regulate practice 
of courts.
5. How proceedings of courts are drawn 
up, read and signed. 
6. Who attends a court a.a its ofBcer. 
:O ! Places of holding the eourts ; when and 
ia ' how place may be changed, 
Tipsta.ff and crier. 
I 30. The supreme court of appeals and each special court of appeals
may appoint a tipstaff and a erier.s They shall receive out of the treasury 
such reasonable compensation as the court may allow, and be removable
at its pleasure. 
CHAPTER CLXI. 
Seals for the courts.
1. For any court without one the governor shall provide a. seal, which 
hall b d . d . h th l k h f
s e eposite wit e c er t ereo . 
Sec. 
14. When court falls to meet on tho day appointed, or to which it 11 acijourned. 
15. Provision to prevent cnaes lrom belng 
discontinued when place or day la
changed, or court falls to sit. 
16. Mattera not determined before the end of
a term, stnnd continued, of course. 
17. As to a notice, recognizance or proeess,
given, token or i1111Ued, before this net 
ii in force. This net operates no dlJ,. 
continuance of any case, Where books,
records end papers, lo eustodj' of clerk,
remain. 
18. Al! to judgments and decrees of court.
no longer emtlng. 
Jurisdiction of courts of counties on water courses.
2. Where any river, water course or bay, lies between any counties in 
this state, the courts for the counties on each side, respectively, shall
have concurrent jurisdiction over so much thereof aa is opposite to said
counties. And the courts for counties lying on the waters bounding the 
state, shall have jurisdiction respectively over such waters opposite said
counties, so far as the jurisdiction of this state extends. 
What number of judges may hold a court; how long a court ma.y sii ; 
and rules as to writs and proceedings. 
t3. The supreme, and every special court of appeals, may be held by
R.ny three or more of the judges of such court. Any such court, or any
other court, may, at any term, whether regular or special, adjourn from
do.y to day, until the business before it is dispatched, or until the end of
its term.t The judge for the circuit court of the city of Richmond shall 
be and he is hereby authorized to acljourn the said court during the terms
thereof, for a period not exceeding thirty days. 
4. The supreme court of appeals may, from time to time, prescribe
the forms of writs, and make general regulations for the practice of all 
the courts.
5. The proceedings of every court shall be entered in a book, and 
read in open court by the clerk thereof. In a county or corporation 
oomt, the minutes of such proceedings shall be read on the day the court
sits, immediately before its adjournment, if it sits but one day ; but if
the court sits more than one day, the minutes of such proceedings shall
be read either on every day the court sits, or on the next day, except 
those of the last day of a term, which shall be read the same day. In
every other court, the proceedings of each day shall be drawn up at
large, and read the next day, except those of a last day of a term, which
shaB be drawn up and read the same day. After being corrected where
it is neeessary, the record shall be signed by the presiding judge or
justice. 
Who attends a court as its qfficer; and at what place it is held.
6. The court of appeals shall not be attended by any sheriff, and a 
circuit or other court, held only for 8. corporation, shall be attended by
the sergeant of such corporation, who shall act as its officer. In all other
oases, the sheriff of the county in which any court shall sit, shall attend 
it and act as the officer thereof.-=f'7. The circuit court of the city of Richmond and the circuit court for 
the county of Henrico shall each sit in the city of Richmond, at the state
courthouse. The circuit court of Spotsylvania county may sit at the court- 
house thereof, or at the courthouse in Fredericksburg, in conformity with
the laws now in force. Every other circuit, county or corporation court, 
ti
. l 11 b h Id th 
or any county or corporation, s ia e e at e courthouse of such
county or corporation, except where some other place is prescribed by 
law or lawfully appointed. 
:::8. When the courthouse, prescribed for a circuit court to sit in, is not
in a condition to be occupied, such court shall hold its session at such place
as may be appointed by its order, or by warrant of the judge thereof in
vacation, directed to the clerk, and if none be so appointed, at such place
as may be appointed by the county or corporation court under tho following section . 
. :J}. Any county or corporation court, when the acting justices thereoh825-6~
have been summoned to consider tho subject under an order of a previous 
term, or when a majority of the acting justices is present, may appoint
some other place than the courthouse thereof to be, and the same shall be, 
the place of seasion of the said court, from a certain day to be specified
in the order, until thereafter the courthouse shall be in a condition to be
occupied. 
IO. A copy of every order of court, or warrant of a judge under the
two preceding sections, shall be posted by the clerk of the court at the 
door of his office, and at the courthouse door, and also at the place 80 
appointed.
:-II. Whenever, by reason of the destruction of any building in which 
d b h Id b f h I f . b .
a court is appomte to e e , or y reason o t e pace o session eing 
in possession of a public enemy, or infected with contagious disease, it
shall seem to the governor necessary, he shall, by proclamation, appoint 
a. place at which such court shall be held, so long as such reason may continue, and when the circumstances require it, may postpone the time for
holding the court. 
12. No such place of session for a circuit, county or corporation court,
shall be without the limits of the county or corporation of which it is the
court. And when such place is appointed, because of the destruction of
the building in which the court of appeals or special court of appeals was 
held, the new place of session shall be within the same town with the
old.
13. A copy of such proclamation shall be sent to the clerk, and to each
of the judges of any such court, and published in some newspaper at the
scat of government, and near the regular place of session of such court. 
Where court fails to meet on the day appointed, or to which it is adjourned;
14. Though a court be not held on the first day of a term, it may 
th l b d b d ided . h f
never e ess e opene on any au sequent ay, provi , m t e case o 
a circuit, county or corporation court, the same bo done before four
o'clock in tho afternoon of the third day. If, after a court is opened, it
fail to sit on any day, it may nevertheless sit on any subsequent day of
the term, provided, in the case of a circuit, county or corporation court,
there be not more than three consecutive days of such failure. 
Provisions to prevent cases from being discontinued; and as to custody
of records and papers. 
15. When the place for holding any court, or the day for commencing 
h d h t 1:. 1 . d . d
any term, 1s c ange , or w en a eour nu s to sit on any ay appomte 
for it, or to which it may have alljournetl, there shall be no discontinuance,
but every notice, recognizance or process given, taken or returnable to
the day on which the failure occurred, or to any day between that day 
and the next that the court may sit, or to the day and place as it was
before such change, and all matters ready for the court to act upon if it
had been held on any such day, shall be in the same condition and have
the same effect, as if given, taken or returnable, or continued, to the
substituted term or place, or to the next day of the same term that the
court may sit, or to the next court in course, as the case may be. 
t 16. All causes upon the docket of any court, and all other matters
ready for its decision, which shall not have been determined before the
end of a term, whether regular or special, shall, without any order of
continuance, stand continued to the next term. 
17. Although n notice, recognizance or process shall have been given,
taken or issued, before the day prescribed for the commencement of this 
act, it may nevertheless be given, taken or returnable to a day after such
commencement, or to n. court established by this act, or the clerk's office 
of such court, in like manner as if this act had commenced before the
same was given, taken or issued. And nothing in this act shall operate 
to discontinue any cause or matter, civil or criminal, which shall be
clepcnding and undetermined in any court on tho day before this act takes
effect; but every such cause and matter shall be proceeded in, tried and
determined in such court, or in the court which succeeds to or has its
jurisdiction. The papers and records of such causes and matters, and 
all books, records and papers whatever, which on the said day may be in
the custody of any clerk of a court, shall remain in custody of the clerk
of the same, or of such court as succeeds to or has its jurisdiction. 
As to judgments and decrees of courts no longer existing. 
18. Every judgment, decree or order entered in a court which shall
have ceased to exist, shall be executed by the court in custody of whose 
clerk the record of such judgment, decree or order, may be under thepreceding section, or by means of process issued from the clerk's office of
the last mentioned court. And to such court shall be certified every
judgment, decree o; order of the court of appeals touching any judgment, decree or order so entered, and the case shall be proceeded in as if 
such court had rendered the same. 
CHAPTER CLXII. 
OF JURIES GENERALLY. 
&c. Sec.
1. Who liable to Herve RI Jurors. 20. QunliftcationR of jurors.
2. Who exempted. 21. Wh,;n juror IK int e rested in suit. 
3. NnmLer of grund Jurica, bow limited. 22. When exceptlou to he made, 
4. Juri .. ~. how organized. When llat wade, 23. Irregularity cured by verdict.
and who Included, Number limited. 24. Pino on officl'rll for neglect of duty. 
6. How li11t disposed of. 25. Special Jurit11, bow formed.
6. Bullnts, how prepared and kept. 26. Juric-11 In cus,N of felouies uud cases of 
7. Jurie~. how selected from list. How ap- forcible curry and detainer,
porrloned between }'rederhksburg nnd 27. Pay of grand jurors, 
Spotsylvunln, and Jumes City und Wil28. Pay In cases of felony ; in mlsdemeanore
llarnsburg, Grand jurors, how sum- In eivll cusca, How pay apportioned 
moned, between state nnd county.
8. Ventre faclne, when and how lssued, 29. Pay for at teudunce without serving.
9. Ju"ticeR summoned to druw ballots ; How verified. 
when. 30. Departing without leave, not entitled to
10, How Hummons served; proceedings in pny. 
drawing ballot; when jurors to be JI. Pay when ll'ttled out of county levy;
summoued. Discretion of court us to bow roguluted, 
number. 32. l Clerk to makentry of service. Pay of
11. Who to draw the ballots, If juror ex, :13. 5 juror by stuto uud by county. 
empted, how his plnce aupplled. j :1-1. Pvnulty for fraud on jury box.
12. 'When u juror iH druwn, how ballot en- 35. Xo Lourd allowed for jurors lu proseeu- 
dorsr-d, rlons for mlsdcmcauors.
13. No person to serve but once a year, 36. No p,r11011 to be juror at term at which 
14. 'Wh,n mode of summonlng may bo dla- he has a case to be trk-d,
pensed with. 37. Sheriff of Jame~ City authorized to sum- 
15. How jurtes for trlnl of causes selected, mon jnrk~ In Wllllumsburp.
16. F'lntfor non-attendance. 38. 1'rlal hy jury moy he wuived, or tho
17. Court may direct number of Jurors to bta number reduced by conseut. 
summoned. 39. Views.
18. How jurors may be discharged. 40. ! C d t f j r d h 1
19. Wh~n not enough juron present, bow 41. S on uc 
supplied. I 
O 
u orB an II tr u , 
Who liable to serve and who exempt as [uror; number of grand jury
limited. 
3%: All free white male persons, who aro twenty-one_ycars of ago and 
not over sixty, shall be liable to serve as jurol'Bt except as herein after
provided. 
2. The governor and lieutenant governor of the state, practicing at
torneys, licensed practicing physicians, officers of any court, all telegraph
operators actually engaged as such in any office in this state, officers of 
3 the fire department of a town, and all persons mentioned in the second
and third sections of chapter twenty-second, as exempted from ordinary
militia duty ( except school commissioners, trustees of free schools and 
officers of the militia who resign their commissions after serving seven
years successively, and non-commissioned officers and members of volun- 
teer companies), shall be exempted from serving on juries."
-:.:.:2. Any court in which a grand jury is to be impanneled, may, by
direction to its clerk, limit the number of persons to serve thereon :
provided that such number be not less than sixteen. 
Juries; how organized and summoned. 
==4. The county court of each county and the hustings court of each
corporation shall, as soon after this act goes into effect as may be, and
thereafter, annually, at the April or May term of such court, prepare a. list
of such inhabitants of the county or corporation, not exempted as aforesaid, as they shall think well qualified to serve as jurors, being persons
of sound judgment and free from legal exception, which list shall include
at least twenty per1mns for every thousand white inhabitants in such
county or corporation : provided, that in no case shall such list include a
less number than fifty persons. 
'::-S. The list so prepared shall be delivered to the clerk, to be by him
safely kept, subject only to the inspection of the C-OUI't or of two or more
justices, as herein after prescribed ; nnd to such list the court may add
the names of any persons liable to serve, or strike therefrom the name
of any person who has been convicted of any scandalous offense or been
guilty of any gross immorality. 
-: 6. At the time such list is made out, the court shall also cause all the
names upon the same to be fairly written, each on a separate paper or
ballot; and shall fold or roll up the balfots so as to resemble each other
as nearly as may be, and so that the name written thereon shall not be
visible on the outside ; and shall deposit tho ballots in a secure box, to
be prepared for the purpose, which shall be safely kept by the clerk, and
shall be opened only by order of the court or by the justices, as herein
after prescribed. 
7. All jurors required for the trial of cases in any circuit, county or
hustings court, except cases of felony, shall be selected by drawing ballots from the said box in the manner prescribed in this act; and the
persons, whose names arc written on the ballots so drawn, shall be
returned to serve ns jurors : provided, that jurors required for the trial
of cases in the circuit court of Spotsylvania county, when the sald court
is sitting in Fredericksburg, shall be selected by drawing ballots from the
box of the hustings court of said town ; and when the said court is sitting
at the eourthonse of said county, the jurors aforesaid shall be selected 
by drawing ballots from the box of the county court. Said jurors for the
county to be paid out of the county Jevy, and those for the corporation
to be paid by the common council out of the revenue of the said town :
and provided further, that jurors required for the trial of cases in the
circuit court of J ames City and the city of Williamsburg shall be selected
by drawing ballots from the box of the county court of James City and
the box of the hustings court of Williamsburg, in the manner prescribed
in this act; the ballots drawn from the two boxes respectively, being in 
the proportion which the judge of the said circuit court, in vacation or in
court, may direct. Grand jurors shall be summoned as now provided by
law: provided, that in the circuit court of James City and the city of
Williamsburg the judge shall, either in vacation or in court, direct the
sheriff to summon grand jurors from the county and the city in such
proportion from each as he may in his discretion think proper. 
=:.8. The clerk of every court shall, at least twelve days before any term
of such court at which n jury may be wanted, issue a writ of venire facias
for twenty-eight jurors, and shall therein require the attendance of the 
jurors on the first day of the court, or at such other day thereof as the
said court shall order; but whenever, in the opinion of the circuit court
of any county or corporation in the commonwealth, a greater number of 
jurors than twenty-eight is necessary for the dispatch of the business of
said court, such opinion shall be entered of record, together with the
pqmber of jurors deemed necessary by said court ; and thereafter it shall 
r(w.the duty of the clerk of such court to issue a writ of venire facias for
the number of jurors 80 designated. 
=I}. At the same time such clerk shall issue a summons in the name of
the commonwealth, requiring any three justices of the county or corpora- 
tion to attend at the clerk's office of such county or corporation, on a day
named Jin such summons), which shall be not less than seven nor more
than ten days before the day on which the jurors aro required, for the
purpose of drawing the ballots for jurors.
:;:, IO. The writ of venire faeias and the summons shall be delivered to the
sheriff or other officer, who shall serve the summons on any three justices
of the county or corporation, and it shall be the duty of such justices, any 
one of whom may act, to attend on the day designated in the summons, at
the clerk's office of the county or corporation, and in the presence of each 
other, if more than one shall attend, and the clerk of the county or corporation court, to cause the proper number of jurors to be drawn from the
box, and a list thereof to be delivered to the officer serving the summons.
And it shall bo tho duty of such officer, at least three days before the time
when the jurors arc required to attend, to summon each person who is
drawn to attend the sitting of the court at the time and place mentioned
in the writ, and make a due return thereof and the summons aforesaid at
the opening of the court from which they issued. If, in pursuance of tho
eighthsection of this act, more than twenty-eight jurors are required by
the circuit court of any county or corporation, and shall have been summoned, it shall be the duty of the said court to divide by lot the said number of jurors equally into two classes of twenty-eight jurors each; which 
shall be denominated "clus number one" and "cl&88 number two." And
it shall be the duty of elees number ono to serve as jurors, to the exclusion 
and relief of cl888 number two, from the first to the sixth day of the term,
inclusive; at which time it shall be the duty of the jurors of class number
two to attend and serve as jurors, except in those cases where any of the
jurors of elasa number one are actually sworn in a cause, to the exclusion
and relief of class number one, from the sixth to the twelfth day of the
term, inclusire. And the said classes number one and number two shall
so on alternately serve as jurors until the end of the term to which they 
may have been summoned ns jurol'8. 
.:::}I. When jurors are to be drawn as aforesaid, the ballots in the jury
box shall be shaken and mixed together, and the presiding justice, if he
is present, if not, one of the justices, shall openly draw therefrom as
mnny bnllots (without inspecting the names written on any until the proper number is drawn) as shall be equal to the number of jurors required;
and if any person, whose name is so drawn, is exempted by law, or is
unable by reason of sickness, absence from home, or other cause, to attend
as a juror, his name shall be returned into the box; or if his name has
been struck from the jury list, the ballot shall be destroyed, and another
shall be drawn in his stead. 
12. When any person is drawn and returned to serve as a juror 88 
aforesaid, the justices shall cause to be endorsed on the ballot containing
bis name the word "drawn," and shall return it to the box; and the date
of the draft shall be entered on the list of jurors opposite his name. 
13. No person, who in pursuance of such draft has actually attended
any court and served as a juror, shall be liable to be drawn again during
the same year, unless all the persons whose names are in the jury box
hare been drawn to serve during such year.
~14. Nothing contained in the preceding sections shall prevent an; court
from issuing writs of vcnire facins in term time for additional jurors, or
requiring other jurors to be summoned whenever it shall be found necessnry for the convenient dispatch of business; in which case the writ shall 
be served and returned, and the jurors shall be required to attend on such
dny!I us the court shall direct. 
15. On the day when the jurors 'b.re summoned to attend at any court,
the clerk shall write the name of each one who shall be in attendance and
not excused, 011 a separate paper or ballot, nnd place the same in a box
to be kept for that purpose, in the manner prescribed in the si:rthsection of this act; and juries for the trial of cases shall be selected therefrom by lot. 
IG. If nnr person duly summoned to attend as a juror in any court
shall neglect to attend, without any sufficient excuse, he shall pay a fine
not exceeding twenty dollars, which shall be imposed by the court. 
17. Jf, in the opinion of nny court, a lesser number of jurors than
twenty-eight "ill suffice for the convenient dispatch of the businesa 
thereof, it shall be tho duty of such court to enter such opinion of record,
cxpressiug therein the number of Jurors proper to be summoned; and
thereafter, until otherwise directed, the vcnire facias shall not require a
greater number to ho summoned to attend such court. 
----------- 
18. Any court, when not incompatible with the proper dispatch of its Id. 
busineee, shall have power to discharge persons summoned as jurors
therein, or to dispense with their attendance on any day of its sitting. 
::::.19. When, by reason of challenge or otherwise, e. sufficient number of Id. 
jurors, duly drawn and summoned, cannot be obtained for the trial of any
case, the court shall cauee the jurors to be returned from the bystanders
or from the county or corporation at large ; and for that purpose may girect a venire facias to any fit person, whose duty it shall be to execute
and return the same according to the exigency thereof. 
Qualification and disqualification of jurors ; when excepted to.
20. The persons so returned shall be such as arc liable to serve as Id. 
jurors according to the provisions of this law. 
21. The court shall, on motion of either party in any suit, examine on Id. 
oath any person who is called as a juror therein, to know whether he is
related to either party, or has any interest in the cause, or has expressed 
or formed any opinion, or is sensible of any bias or prejudice therein ;
and the party objecting to the juror may introduce n.ny other comvetent
evidence in support of the objection ; and if it shall nppear to the court
that the juror does not stand indifferent in the cause, another shall be
drawn or called and placed in his stead for the trial of that cause. 
22. No exception shall be allowed against any juror after he is sworn 
upon the jury, on account of his age or other legal disability, unless by
leave of court. 
2-1. No irregularity in nny writ of venire facins, or in the drawing,
summoning, returning or impanneling of jurors shall be sufficient to set 
aside a verdict, unless the party making the objection was injured by the 
irregularity, or unless the objection was made before the swearing of the
jury. 
Office.rs fined for neglect of duty.
24. When by neglect of any of the duties required in this act to be 
performed by any of the officers or persons herein mentioned, the jurors
to be returned shall not he duly drawn and summoned to attend the court,
any person guilty of such neglect shall pay a fine not exceeding twenty
dollars, to be imposed by the court. 
Special juries; also juries in felonies and forcible entry and detainer.
~5. Any court may allow n. special jury in any case, to be formed in 
the following manner, viz : A pannel shall be made of twenty qualified~
jurors, to be summoned by an order of court for that purpose, free from 
just cause of exception, from which sixteen shall be chosen by Jot; the
parties thereupon, beginning with the plaintifff's or the commouwealth's
attorney, when tho commonwealth is n. party, shall alternately strike off
oue, until tho number be reduced to twelve, which number shall compose 
the jury for the trial of the case.
26. Nothing contnined in the preceding sections shall apply to the 
impauneling of juries in cases of felonies, hut the jurors shall be called,
chosen, sworn and irnpannelcd for the trial of every case of felony accord- 
ing to chapter two hundred and eight concerning juries in such eases ;
nor shall any thing in. the said sections apply to tho impanneliug of juries 
in cues of forcible entry or unlawful detainer, where the trial is not at;
the jury term of the court. 
Pay of jurors. 
27. Every person who shall serve upon a grand jury shall be entitled
to receive one dollar for such service, to be paid out of the county or corporation levy, 
y.... 28. Jurors in prosecutions for felony, whether in a circuit, county or
corporation court, shall be paid as provided in the tenth section of chap
ter two hundred and eight. Jurors in prosecutions for misdemeanors
shall each be entitled to receive out of the public treasury, and jurors in
civil cases out of the county or corporation levy, fifty cents for each jury
on which they shall serve ; and, where the jury is adjourned from day to
day, fifty cents for tho first and seventy-five cents for each succeeding
day : provided, that no person shall receive more than one dollar and
twenty-five cents for jury service rendered in any one day; which sum
may be allowed in case such person has served on three or more juries
during the day, or in case he has served on two or more juries during tho
day, one of which was adjourned to that day. And where, during the
same day, a person has served on juries for which he would be entitled
to be paid out of the public treasury, and also on juries for which he
would be entitled to be paid out of the county or corporation levy, the
court shall apportion the charge ratably according to the service rendered. 
29. If any person summoned as aforesaid by virtue of the venire facias,
shall actually attend upon the court, but shall not be called to serve on a
jury, he shall for each day he so attends without serving on a jury, be
entitled to receive fifty cents, to be paid out of the county or corporation
levy, as the case may be. The claim for such attendance shall be verified by the oath of the person making the same in the manner prescribed
by law in respect to the attendance of witnesses. 
30. No juror who shall depart without leave of the court, or, being
summoned as a witness for the commonwealth, shall charge for his attendance as such, shall bo entitled to receive auy compensation for his
services as a juryman. 
31. The county court of any county aud the council of any town 
may, by an order entered of record, which order shall be annually mo.de
when the levies are laid, allow a greater or less compensation than is
prescribed herein, in those cases in which jurors arc to be paid out of
county or town levies : provided, that not less than fifty cents a dny be
paid to each person who shall serve as a juror, nor less than twenty-five
cents a dny for attendance in obedience to a summons when he is not
called to serve as a juror. 
3'2. The clerk of any court in which juries are impannelcd shall, before its final adjournment at each term and under the direction of too
court, make an entry upon its minutes, stating the amount to which each
juror is entitled for his sen-ices or attendance during the term, and specifying how much is payable by the commonwealth and how much by tho
county or corporation. 
33. It shall be the duty of such clerk, as soon as practicable after the
adjournment of the court, to transmit to the auditor of public accounts 
certified copies of all orders under the next preceding section, making
allowances against the commonwealth ; and also to deliver to each juror 
o. certified copy of any such order, making an allowance to him, payable by
the commonwealth, and a like copy of any such order, making an allowance to him, payable by the county or corporation; and the sheriff or
sergeant of such court shall, upon demand, pny to such juror the amount
allowed him, which, with interest on the same from the day of payment,
shall be repaid to the officer out of the public treasury, or out of the
county or corporation levy, as the case may be, upon the production of
satisfactory proof that the same has actually been paid by him. 
Penalty for fraud on jury box.
34. If any person shall be guilty of any fraud, either by practicing.Id.
on the jury box previously to a draft or in drawing a juror, or in returning into the jury box the name of any person which has lawfully been 
drawn out and drawing and substituting another in his stead, or in any
other way in the drawing of jurors, he shall on conviction thereof be
punished by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars. 
Jury in cases of misdemeanor.
35. The eleventh section of chapter two hundred and eight shall not 
be construed to apply to jurors in prosecutions for misdemeanors.
Trial of case in which juror is interested at same term, disqualifies 
him.
36. No person shall be admitted to serve as a juror, except in trials 
for felony, o.t any term of a court during which he has any matter of fact
to be tried by a jury, which shall have been, or is expected to be tried 
during the same term.
Juries for James City; ichere summoned. 
37. The sheriff of the county of James City may summon the inhahitants of the said county in any part of the city of Williamsburg, to serve 
on juries in the said county.
Trial by jury ,nay be waived, or the number reduced by consent. 
~In any case except a case of felony, in which a trial by jury would
be otherwise proper, the parties or their counsel, by consent entered of 
record, may waive the right to have a jury, and thereupon the whole matter of law and fact may be heard and determined, and judgment given by 
the court ; or l>y like consent the jury may consist of seven, and in that
case a verdict shall be as valid and have the same effect as if it had been
found by a jury of twelve. 
Views.
39. The jury may in any case, at the request of either party, be taken 
to view the premises or place in question, or any property, matter or
thing relating to the controversy between the parties, when it shall appear to the court that such view is necessary to a just decision : provided
the party making the motion shall advance a sum sufficient to defray the
expenses of the jury, and the officers who attend them in taking the view;
whioh expenses shall be afterwards taxed like other legal costs. 
Conduct of juror, and ,heri.ff.
40. A juror knowing any thing relative to a fact in issue shall disclose 
the same in open court.
41. After a jury has been impanneled, no sheriff or other officer shall 
converse with or permit any one else to converse with a juror, unless by
leave of the court. 
Cu. 163. Of clerks of courts.
164. Of nttorneys at law generally.
165. Of the attorney general, and other attorneys for the eommonwealth.
166. Reports of tho decisions of tho court of appeals. 
Ste. 
1. 
CLERKS, ATTORNEYS AND REPORTER. 
Clerks, how elected; their term of office ; 
vaeunclcs ; oppolntment or clerks pro
tom pore; oaths and bonds; removal of 
clerk11; contested eleef lons,
2. Clt>rk1 of court of appeals, 
3. Removal of clerks. 16.
4. 'When anti how clerk or clerk pro tem- 17. 
pore may be appointed. 18. 
5. Before term of clerk expires, hl.11 BUC
cessor may be appoluted.
6. Examloutlon of clerk's office. 19. 
7. Bond of clork ; copy transmitted to RU00.
dltor : where original 111 recorded; penalty for not doing what this section 
requires, 21. 
8. Appointment of dl'puty clerk,
9. Realdenee of clerk and pince of clerk's 
officl'.
10. Papers in clerk's office to be preserved 22. 
therein,
11. Removal of' reeords or papers out of 23. 
county or corporation prohibited, except in certain cases. 
12. Records and pnpl'rll open to Inspection; 24.
clerk's duty to make coplcs when re- 2:i. 
quired. 
c1!:itlt 50 
CHAPTER CLXTII. 
OF CLERKS OF COURTS, 
Ste. 
13. Power of t'lerk to admiul11ter an oath. 
14. Clerk'll duty as to preparing bonds, 
15. As to partition or recovery or a1111fgn. 
ment of dower ln land under judgment, decree or order. 
As to keeplug execution book.
As to Indexes, 
A11 to prO<'t>SII book ; how proeess, orders
and decrees to be 1<r\"ed, are delivered 
or sent out.
A11 to taking precess out of post offlel'.
'I'runsmlttlug' to governor a list of nctlng
justices and copies of orders containing 
nomlnatlons. 
No duplicate certificate of an allowunee
to be given, unless ordered by the
court; what dnpllcute must show; pe
nulty on clerk,
Report of the busln<>1111 in, and day of 1e1
l'lon of, the courts,
Penalty on clerk for failing to make report; duty of clerk of house of dele
gateK in such CI\I!(', 
How fines against clerks are recovered,
Payments to elerka by county or eorporutlon. 
Clerks, how eluted; term of office; vacancies in o.ffice ; appointment of
clerks pro tempore ; oaths and bonds ; removal of clerks ; contested
elections. 
1. The clerks of the county and corporation courts and of the circuit
courts shall be elected in tho manner prescribed in the seventh chapter; 
and their terms of office, the creation of vacancies, and the mode of supplying them; and tho appointment of clerks pro tempore, shall also be
as therein provided. The time for the commencement of their terms, 
tho mode of taking oaths and giving bonds, and their removal from office,
shall bo as prescribed by the eighth chapter, and the mode of contesting
their elections, according to the provisions of the tenth chapter." 
X There shall continue t.o be two clerks of the court of appeals; one
for the said court at Richmond, and the other for the said court at Lewis- 
Clerks of court of appeals. 
burg.3. Every court may remove its clerk at any time. t But no order for 
such removal shall be made by a county or corporation court, unless the
acting justices thereof being summoned to consider the subject, a ma- 
jority of them are present, and two -thirds of those present concur in the
order. 
Wheand how clerk, or clerk pro tempore, may be appointed.
4. When the office of clerk is vacant, a clerk pro tempore may be ap- 
db h ' h . 1 f if' i b ' it t,B; 
pomte y t e court, or ID t e vacation t iereo , 1 it e a circui COUr 
the judge thereof, or if it be the court of appeals, by any three of the
judges thereof. The appointment in vacation shall be in writing, and re- 
corded in the book wherein the proceedings of the court are recordcd.t
5. Before the term of a clerk expires, his successor may be appointed 
and qualified to act in the office from the eml,of the said term.6. Before any vacancy existing or to occur in the office of clerk shall 
filled, the court shall, and at any other time it may, appoint two or
more persons to examine the clerk's office. They shall examine the fee 
books, and the condition of the records and papers in tho office, and report whether the clerk has faithfully discharged his duties. The court
may allow to each person making such examination not exceeding five
dollars a day ; which, if the examination be of the clerk's office of n. 
county or corporation court, shall be chargeable on such county or corporation, and in other cases shall be paid out of the treasury.] 
Bond of clerk; and appointment of deputy.
7. Every court shall take from its clerk ( unless he be clerk pro tempo re) 
bond in a penalty of not less than three nor more than ten thousand dollars; and a court mayat any time require of and take from its clerk a 
new bond. Every clerk shall, within two months after the execution of
his bond, transmit a copy thereof to the first auditor, and deliver the origi- 
l 
r: ll h b f . 
JO owe : T e ond of the clerk o n county or corporation court,
the clerk of the circuit court having jurisdiction over such county or 
corporation ; the bond of the clerk of a circuit court of a county or corporatiou, to the clerk of the county or corporation court thereof; and the 
bond of each clerk of a district court, and of each clerk of the court of 
appeals, to the clerk of the court of the county or corporation wherein
the court sits whose clerk has given the bond. Every such bond shall, by
the clerk to whom it is delivered, be recorded forthwith. Any clerk who
shall fail to do what is required of him by this section shall pay a fine of
not less than one hundred nor more than five hundred dollars. 
f 8. Any clerk of a court may with its consent, or if be be clerk of a
lircuit court, with the consent in writing of the judge thereof in vacation,
appoint a deputy, who. daring hie continuance in office, may discharge
any of the duties of the clerk. He may be removed from offioe either by 
the clerk or court. 
Residence of clerk and place of clerk'office.
9. There shall be kept in the city of Richmond, at the state courthouse, 
and in the town of Lewisburg, at the courthouse of Greenbrier county,
the clerk's offices of the several courts held at those places, unless any
such court shall see cause to direct its clerk's office to be kept elsewhere.
The clerk's office of the circuit court of the county of Spotsylvania may
be kept at such place in the town of Fredericksburg as may be prescribed
by the said court. The clerk's office of every other circuit, county or corporation court for any county or corporation shall be kept at the courthouse
of such county or corporation, unless there shall have been n failure by 
the proper authority to provide such office there, in which case the clerk's
office may be kept at such other place within the county or corporation as
the court may direct. Every clerk of any circuit, county or corporation 
court shall reside within the county or corporation for which such court is
held, except where it is otherwise allowed by law.
Clerk's duty to keep records and papers, or make copies.
10. All papers lawfully returned to, or filed in, the clerk's office, shall 
be preserved therein until legally delivered out.
11. None of the records or papers of a court shall be removed by the 
clerk, nor allowed by the court to be removed, out of the county or corporation wherein the clerk's office is kept, except on an occasion of invasion or insurrection, where, in the opinion of the court, or in a very
sudden case, of the clerk, the same will be endangered, after which they
are to be returned so soon as the danger ceases ; and except in such
other cases as are specially provided for by law. Any clerk violating
this section shall forfeit six hundred dollars. 
12. The records and papers of every court shall be open to the inspection of any person, and the clerk shall, when required, furnish copies
thereof, except in eases where it is otherwise specially provided. 
Powers and duties generalls] of clerk.
13. Any clerk of a court, or his deputy, may administer an oath in 
any case wherein an affidavit is necessary or proper as the foundation of
an official act to be performed by him. 
, 14. Every clerk shall prepare in a. proper manner any bond to be
taken by, or given before, him or his court. 
15. The clerk of the court wherein there is any partition of, or assignment of dower in, land under any order, or any recovery of land under 
judgment or decree, shall transmit to the clerk of the court of each
county or corporation, wherein such land is, a copy of such order, judgment or decree, and of such partition or assignment, and of the order
confirming the same, and along therewith such description of the land as
may appear in the papers of the cause. And the clerk of the court of
such county or corporation shall record the same in his deed book, and
index it in the name of the person who bad the land before, and also
in the name of the person who became entitled under such partition,
usignment or recovery. 
16. The clerk of- every circuit, county or corporation court, shall keep
an execution book, in which he shall enter, in each case wherein an exe- 
eution is issued, the names of the parties, the time of the judgment, the 
amount thereof, or a reference to the page of the order book wherein the
amount appears, the date of each execution, nature thereof, when returnable, and, if return be made thereon, the nature of such return. 
17. The clerk of every court shall have an index to each book be is
required to keep, making convenient reference to every order, record or 
entry therein. Every execution, o.nd every judgment or decree for money,
ahall be indexed ns well in the name of the person against whom, as in
the name of the person in whose favor, the same is. 
18. The clerk of every circuit, county or corporation court from whose
office may be issued any process, original, mesne or final, or o.ny order or
decree to be served on any person, shall, unless the party interested, or 
his attorney, direct otherwise, deliver the same to the sheriff or other offioer of the county or corporation for which tho court is held, if it is to be 
executed therein, and if it is to be executed in any other county or corporation, shall enclose the same to the sheriff or other officer thereof, put
it in the post office and pay the postage thereon. The clerk shall keep a 
process book, wherein there shall be an entry of every such process, order
or decree, showing its nature, date and return day, the person to whom, 
and time when it was delivered, or if it was mailed, the time thereof, and
the person to whom it was enclosed. From nny officer to whom there is
such delivery, the clerk shall take a receipt in his process book .. 
19. If there come directed to a clerk, by mnil, a Jetter with an endorsemcnt on the envelope of the parties' names nnd the nature of the process
enclosed, he shall take the same out of the post office and pay such
postage as may be payable thereon. 
20. The clerk of the court of every county shall transmit to the goveroor, on or before the thirty-first day of December in each year, a list 
of the justices acting in the said county on the preceding first day of Novembcr,f and shall transmit to the governor a copy of every order con- 
taining any nomination to him, within a month after the date of such
order. If he fail to do either, be shall forfeit one hundred dollars. 
21. There sball be no duplicate certificate of any a1lowance of a court 
to be paid out of the treasury, unless the court, upon proof by the oath 

of the party or otherwise of the loss or destruction of the original certificate, shall order o. duplicate ; it shall show on its face that it is a duplicate
issued by order of the court. Any clerk who shall issue a duplicate otherwise, shall forfeit one hundred dollars. 
ACTIONS .AT LAW. suns IN EQUITY.
PROSECUTJO~S.
DAYS OP' ssao.
a 
od 
t 
s 
a 
tao 
,g 
~
i:
0
..,;; 
~,i. 
,:It: 
:., .. 
E 
'
41 
a 
s , 
~
~ . 
~!
t
f ~i
8 
e 
ti, 
~ 
c; .., .. 
,d 
The report shall show, as to each of the said classes of cases, the number of each kind during the whole year, except that the number pending
will be of those pending at the end of the year. In the pending there
shall be included cases at rules, as well as on the court docket. In the
actions decided, there shall be included judgments by default in the office,
which have become final. But there shnll not be included judgments on
forthcoming bonds, or on notices of motion, other than notices authorized
by section sixth of chapter one hundred and sixty-seven. The clerk may
append any remarks, and therein give any information which be sees fit,
as to any case in his court. 
23. The clerk of the house of delegates shall report to the auditor of
public accounts every clerk who may fail to make such report. Any clerk
so failing, may be fined not exceeding fifty dollars." 
How fines against clerks are recovered;
24. Any fine or forfeiture under this chapter, may be recovered in like 
if hi h d h lfth ]
manner as 1 t is were a e apter un er t o twe w tit o. 
.., 
... 
e 
-g;:: >;: 
A
ti, 
..;; 
At 
Payments lo clerks by coun.ty or corporation, 
~~
E .
.... 
a
:, 
:a 
~~ 
>:,
:, 
'Cl
O C 
O c.; 
a ... 
a 
:a 
0 
]l 
11,1 
'Cl 
iii 
> g
>a, 
O c; 
O C 
8 .. 
Cl
... ;;
... 0 
s
:s 
i:, 
"'
;-:: 
.., 
.... 
... 
"'" 
:s
::::i
"'> 
O i:, 
al] .
a A
cl 
f 
Report of the business in, and days of session of the courts.
22. The clerks of the court of appeals, of the district courts, and the 
~::.clerk of each circuit court, shall annually, before the first day of N ovemher, make to the clerk of the house of delegates a report of the number 
of days the court was in session within the year ending on the last day of
August preceding, and the state of the business in the court during the
said year, in the following form: 
c:, 
.., 
~] 
....
a 
'"l 
0
:, ..
1::1
c:,C. 
E 
a ..
>'" 
.. Q., 
= 
8 
A 
C>
0 
>
c:,
1::1 !; 
:., 
~-; 
2.>. There shall be chargeable in every county or corporation such sum
as the court thereof may, for services to the public of the county or town,
allow its clerk, not exceeding for one year two hundred dollars, except
thnt the county courts of Nottoway and Prince Edward may allow such
sum as they shall deem proper to their clerks, not exceeding four hundred
dollars; and the corporation court of Richmond may make such allowance
as it may deem proper to its clerk for sen-ices for which no other compensation is made by law.] 
~ 
bl!~
;:
~ 
aa: j
i:i. 
'C ...
i;:.. 
_ ...
~ 
ei 0
ei
cfC
o~
c 0
o~
0
oO oC
ei
0
0
.: ..
cl 
z
~
z
z
;z; 
;- 
.. -5 
,I:.
i::.
,:I 
O g. 
z z z
z z z
z z z z
;.) C) 
---- 
H 
;! e 
.. 
~ 
H 
---, 
~ t e, . 
l&4
~ .s I~ 
... 
OF ATTORNEYS AT LAW GENERALLY,
Bee.
I, Certificate nnd license ncce11sary to on
able person to practice law. 
2. Person licensed in an adjolnlng state may
practice here. 
3. Attorney must qualify in each court in 
which he practices. 
4. Pt'tnauty for /ractlclng without being
licensed an quallfled ; in what enses 
penalty ie not Incurred. 
. Power of court to supersede license of 
k'S- attorney eonvicted of felony. 
Sec. 
6. How in other cases license may be suspended or annulled by s court. 
7. Right of court to require security for
good behavior, or to fh10 for contempt, 
not atfcctod.
8. Certnin persons forbid to practice low 
1g: 
particular courts, 
J Linbility of attumey to hill client. 
11. Attomt'ty's fee. 
h.. Any three judges of the superior courts of this state may grant
license in writing to practice law in the courts thereof, to any person who 
shall on examination be duly qualified, and who shall produce to them
certificate of the court of the county or corporation where he has resided
for one year next preceding, that he is a person of honest demeanor, and
is over twenty-one years of age. 
2. Any person duly licensed and practicing as counsel or attorney
law in any state adjoining this, or in the district of Columbia, may prac- 
tice as such in the courts of this state.
3. Every such person shall produce, before each court in which he in- 
d
' r. id f hi b li d d k 
ten s to practice, satiafactory evi ence o is emg so ieense , an ta
an oath that he will honestly demean himself in the practice of the law,~
and to the best of his ability execute his office of attorney at law ; and 
also when he is licensed in this state, take the oath of :fidelity to the commonwealth. 
4 If
h 
CHAPTER CLXIV. 
11
, l . f thi . h 
. any person s a practice aw m any court o s state mt out
being so licensed, or without taking the oaths required, he shall forfeit~ 
one hundred and fifty dollars for each case in which he shall appear as
attorney, one-half whereof shall be to the informer. But this penalty 
shall not be incurred by an attorney for instituting suits in the superior
courts, after obtaining a license, if he shall qualify at the :first term thereafter of the circuit court of any county or oorporation of the circuit in
which he resides. 
5. Any court before which any attorney has been qualified, on proof!
being made to it that he has been convicted of any felony, may supersede
his license. 
6. If any circuit court observes any malpractice therein by any attorney, or if complaint be made to any circuit court of malpractice by any 
attorney therein, or in the court of the county or corporation for which
such circuit court is holden, such court shall order the attorney to be
summoned to show cause why an information should not be filed against
him ; and if such information be ordered and the attorney be found
guilty, the court may suspend his license for a time, or annul it. The
court of appeals and special court of appeals shall have the like power
over attorneys practicing in those courts respectively; and in case an in- 
formation should be ordered in such case, may cause a jury to be impanneled to try the same. 
7. Nothing in the preceding section shall affect the right of any court
to require from an attorney therein security for his good behavior, or to 
fine him for a contempt of the court.
8. If any justice, clerk, sheriff or sergeant, or any deputy of either, or 
any person interested in the profits of any such office, shall act as attorney at law in any case in any court of which such justice, clerk, sheriff
or sergeant is a member or officer, he shall forfeit thirty dollars. 
9. Every attorney at law shall be liable to his client for any dameges
sustained by him by the neglect of his duty M such attorney.
10. If any attorney receive money for his client and fail to pay the
same on demand, it may be recovered from him by warrant, or by suit or
motion according to the amount, and damages in lieu of interest, not ex- 
ceeding fifteen per centum per annum until paid, ma.y be awarded against
him. 
11. An attorney shall be entitled as a fee to the amount which the
clerk is authorized to taxin the bill of costs, in any suit, or for any ser
vice as such attorney. But any contract made with an attorney for other
or higher fees shall be valid, and may be enforced in like manner with 
any other contract. 
OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL AND OTHER ATTORNEYS FOR THE COKllONWEALTH. 
k 
t, l DutleM of the attome.y general; and 
4. 5 where hia office 111 kept. 
CHAPTER CLXV. 
ti. Hl11 feea.
6. Attorneys elected to prosecute for comI 
monwealth In circuit, county nnd cor- I 
poratlon conrts, Their term of office ;
qualification. Power to remove them, 
a.nd mode c,f eonteailng their election. 
,Yu. 
7. Th<'lr eompensatlon. Special n.llowanoe 
to nttorney for Norfolk city n.nd county,
and for city of Richmond. 
8. Information to be glven to them of, and
proceedlngs Inatltuted by them for vloIuttons of penul laws ; thf'ir power to
ban, wltncsse1111ummonlld. 
Of the atwrney general. t 
J. The attorney general shall give his opinion and advice in writing,
when required to do so by the governor, or by any of the public boards
and officers at the seat of government. 
2. He shall appear ns counsel for the state in all cases in which the
commonwealth is interested, depending in the court of appeals, either in
the eastern or western district thereof, or in the circuit court of the city 
of Richmond.t
3. He shall annually, on or before the first day of November, deliver 
to the go.emor a report of the state and condition of the several causes
in which the commonwealth is a party, pending in the said courts. 
!X"4. The governor shall assign to the attorney general a room in the 

state courthouse, for his office.
5. On the final determination of any cause in any court mentioned in 
the second section, in which the attorney general appeared for the state,
the clerk thereof shall certify to the auditor of public accounts the fee of
the attorney general, which shall be paid out of the public treasury. His
fees in a circuit court, on an appeal from a decision of the auditor, shall
be the same as are taxable in the general court.
Attorney a for the commonwealth. 
6. There shall be elected bv the voters in each county nn attorney for
h 
f
h 
d . h . l . h
the commonwenlt or eac county court; an in enc county m w nc a 
circuit court is held, an attorney for the commonwealth for such court;
and such election shall be held on the same day in every fourth year,
counting in each case from the fourth Thursday in May eighteen hundred
and fifty-two. The said elections shall be made, and vacancies in saitl
offices shall be filled, as prescribed in the seventh chapter. The mode of
ascertaining and certifying their elections, the commencement of their
terms of office, their qualification, and the power to remove them, shall
be according to the eighth chapter; and the mode of contesting their
elections shall be as provided in the tenth ehapter.] 
7. Such attorney, in any county or corporation court, shall be allowed
by the court such sum as it deems reasonable, for public services (for
which no other fee or reward is allowed by law), which shall be chargeable to such county or corporation, and in a circuit court, shall be allowed 
by it, where the attorney has no annual salary, such sum as it deems reasonable, not exceeding ii]- one year one hundred and fifty dollars in the circuit 
courts of the county and city of Norfolk, and one hundred dollars in any
other circuit court, except that the attorney for the circuit court of Rich- 
mond city shall hereafter receive annually the sum of one thousand dollars.
8. Everv commissioner of the revenue, sheriff, constable or other offi- 
cer, shall give information of tho violation of any penal law to such attorney, who shall forthwith institute and prosecute all necessary and pro- 
per proceedings in such case, whether in the name of the commonwealth
or of a county or corporation, or of the overseers of the poor; and may
in such case issue or cause to be issued a summons for any witness he
may deem material to give evidence before the court or grand jury. 
RF.PORTS OF THE DECISIONS OF THE COURT OF APPEALS.
t I. The reporter appointed by the court of appeals shall prepare and
annually, before the tenth day of July, deliver to such printer as the
secretary of the commonwealth may direct, manuscript reports of such
of the decisions made during the year ending the first day of April, by
the court of appeals, as such court shall think ought to be published, with
an abstract of the points decided in each ease, and proper indexes and
referenoes.f 
2. He shall examine and correct the proof-sheets thereof as they shall
be furnished him by the printer. 
3. He shall not be required to report the decisions of any special court
of appeals, but such court may allow any person approved by it, to report its decisions free of charge 'to tho state. 
4. The reporter first above named shall hold his office at the pleasure
of the court of appeals, by which a vacancy in the office may be filled
from time to time. 
5. In those cases in which the reporter appointed by the supreme court
of appeals is to report decisions, copies of the reasons, stated in writing, 
under the thirteenth section of the sixth article of the constitution, shall
be delivered by the clerk to the reporter. 
Cn. 167. 
1fl8. 
169.
170.
171.
172.
173. 
174. 
17f>. 
176.
li7. 
rrs. 
179. 
180.
UH. 
182. 
18:l. 
~ 
--HAPTER CLXVI. 
iitlc 51 
PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL CASES. 
Of notices and motions.
Of changing a. person's name; suing in tho names of persons who are 
dead; and the joinder uf tenants in common.
Of the county or corporation in which proceedings arc courmeuced, 
Of process, and the order of publication.
Of the rules ; pleadings generally; and judgments in tho office. 
Of payment and setoff
Of tho death or change of parties, and the discontlnunnce of causes not 
prosecuted.
Of tho removal of causes pending in one court, to another.
Of the appointment of commissiouers in chancery; the reference of ae
counts to them ; and the proccediugs thereupon.
Of evidence. 
Of the court docket; inquiry of damagos r trial by jury; and judgments and decrees of tho court for moncv. 
Of decrees of sale; orders for executing deeds or nppointing trustees i 
and the reservation for infants.
Of injunctions; appoiutment of receivers: and bills of review. 
Of the loss of a record or po.p<>r in u cause,
Of errors insufficient in an appellate court.
Of appeals and writs of error und suporscdcas.
General provisions. 
&t;. 
1. l :\lotle of serving a notice; nnd evldence
2. 5 of 11ervlce. 
3. Xotlces to non-resldenta to take deposltlons may be served on counsel. Courts
to dP<'id1upon validity of such notice. 
... Tru day,notice ftl'TI<'rully required of
motion for judgment, 
5. Remedy by motion, on eertaln bonds
taken or glven by offlcon. 
I. A notice, no particular mode of serving which is prescribed, may 
b
d 
b
d Ii 
CHAPTER CLXVII. 
OF :SOTICES AND MOTIO:SS, 
&c.
G. Remedy by motion, nfter sixty day11' 
. h f . . 
notlee, on eontraets generally; when
notice must be returned to clerk's 
office; provlston to prevent dlscontinuauce of motion. 
7. Agnin11t what part of those liable judgment may be given, on motion. 
8. ,vhen, on a motion, there mey be trial 
by jury. 
th .
e serve y e venng a copy t ereo m wntmg to e party m person 
0 
or, if he be not found at his usual place of abode, by delivering such copy
and giving information of its purport to his wife or any white person found
there, who is a member of his family, nnd above the age of sixteen years:
or, if neither he nor his wife, nor any such white person, be found there,
by leaving such copy posted at the front door of said place of abode. Any
sheriff or sergeant, thereto required, shall serve a notice within his bailiwick, and make return of the manner and time of service ; for a failure
so to do, he shall forfeit twenty dollars. Such return, 01a similar return
by any other person who verifies it by aflldavit, shall be evidence of the 
manner and time of serviee.}
2. Any such notice to a person not residing in Virginia, may be served 
by the publication thereof once a week for four successive weeks, in a
newspaper printed in this state. 
3. Whenever any party on whom a notice to take u deposition should
be served is not a resident of Virginia, the service of such notice on the
counsel of such party shall have like effect as if it were served upon the
party, provided the time between the service of notice and taking the
deposition be sufficient for conveying by ordinary course of mail a letter
from the plnce of service to the place of residence of the party, and a
reply from that place hack to the place of service, and then for the counsel to attend at the place of taking the deposition. In all cases when
notice is served on counsel as aforesaid, the court upon exception being
taken, may determine whether under all the circumstances the notice
has been served in reasonable time, and admit or reject the deposition 
accordlngly.
-1. In any case wherein there may be judgment or decree for money on 
motion, such motion shall be after ten days' notice, uuless some other time
be specified in the section giving such motion. 
5. The court to which, or in, or to whose clerk or office, any bond taken
by an officer, or given by any sheriff, sergeant or constable, is required to 
he returned, filed or recorded, may, on motion of any person, give judgment for so much mon<'y as he is entitled, by virtue of such bond, to
recover by action. 
,. Any person entitled to recover money by action on any contract, 
may, on motion before any court which would hare jurisdiction in an
action, otherwise than under the second section of the one hundred and
sixty-ninth chapter, obtain judgment for such money after sixty days'
notice, which notice shall be returned to the clerk's office of such court
forty days before the motion is heard. A motion under this section,
which is docketed under the first section of chapter one hundred and
seventy-seven, shall not be discontinued by reseon of no order of continuance being entered in it from one day to another, or from term t.o 
term.7. A person entitled to obtain judgment for money on motion, may, 
88 to any, or the personal representatives of any, person liable for such
money, move severally against each, or jointly against all, or jointly 
against any intermediate number ; and when notice of his motion is not
served on all of those to whom it is directed, judgment may nevertheless 
be given against so many of those liable as shall appear to have been
served with the notice. Such motions may be made from time to time
until there is judgment against every person liable, or his personal
representative. 
8. On a motion when an issue of fact is joined, and either party desire
it, or when in the' opinion of the court it is proper, a jury shall be
impanneled, unless the case be one in which the recovery is limited to
an amount not greater than twenty dollars, exclusive of interest. 
CHAPTER CLXVIII. 
OF CHANGING A PERSON'S NAME; SUING IN THE NA'MES OF PERSONS
WHO ARE DEAD; AND THJoJ JOINDER 01!' TENANTS IN COMMON. 
,'J,r, I Ste. 
1. Changing a person's name. 3. Suing In tho name& of persona who an
2. Joindor of tenants In common. dead. 
X,__ Any person desiring o. change of his own name or that of his child
d 1 h f h rt f } 
or war , may app y t ere or to t e circuit con o t re county or corporation in which he resides; or if be be a citizen of the state without a fixed
residence in any one county or corporation, his application may be to the
circuit court of the city of Richmond. On any such application, the
court in its discretion mar order a change of the name, and thenceforth
the new name shall be in the place of the former. 
2. Tenants in common may join or be joined as plaintifffs or defendants,
3. Upon any official bond, executed before this act is in force, suit may 
be maintained (for the benefit of any person injured by the breach of the
conclition thereof), in the names of the judges, justices or other person
to whom such bond is payable, whether any of the obligees be alive or
not; and although any justice to whom the bond is made payable, WM 
not sitting in the court at the time of its execution, or although any other
justice was sitting at that time. 
CHAPTER CLXIX. 
OF THE COUNTY OR CORPORATION IN wmcn PROCEEDINGS ABE
COMMENCED.
&c. I &c:. 
1. ! I 4. A11 to writof mandamu, prohibition 
? SAs to actions at law and IRllb ID eqaity, j and certiorari. 
I. Any action o.t law or suit in equity, except where it is otherwise
specially provided, may be brought in any county or corporation : 
First, wherein any of the defendants may reside; or,
Secondly, if a corporation be a defendant, wherein its principal office 
is, or wherein its mayor, rector, president or other chief officer resides; or,
hi dl r. b 1 d bi . db b . 
T ir y, 1 it c to recover an or eu uect 1t to a e t, or e against a
debtor who resides without, t but has estate or debts due him within this
state, wherein such land, estate or debts, or any part thereof, may be ; or, 
Fourthly, if it be on behalf of the commonwealth, in the name of the
attorney general, or otherwise, wherein the seat of government is; or,t 
Fifthly, if a judge of a circuit court be interested in a case which, but
for such interest, would be proper for the juriadiction of his court, the ao- 
tion or suit may be brought in any county or corporation in an ad.joining
circuit. 
2. An action may be brought in any county or corporation wherein the
cause of action, or any part thereof, arose, although none of the defen- 
dants may reside therein.
3. Any action or suit mentioned in the two preceding sections, may be 
in a circuit, county or corporation court of any county or corporation
wherein it is allowed thereby to be brought. 
4. Jurisdiction of writs of mandamus, prohibition and certiorari (exoept such 88 may be issued from the district courts or court of appeals), 
shall be in the circuit court of the county or corporation in which the re-:cord or proceeding is to which the writ relates. Any such writ may be
awarded either by the circuit court or (in vacation) by the judge thereof.
CHAPTER CLXX. 
OF PROCESS AND THE ORDER OF PUBLICATION. 
Ste.
&c. 
1.
Form11 of writs.
7.
How to serve precess agaln1i, or notice
2.
How process le directed and returnable;
to a corporation. 
and when It may be executed.
8.
Bow to serve proeeu or notice In a cue
3.
When new process may Issue ; If officer
agnln&t a common carrier (other than 
hnd executed and not returned former a corporation).
process, what 111 to be done.
9. No Judgment on rotum1 of nlhil. 
4. Officer's duty after every rules, to get
10. On what affidavit order of publication 11
from clerk's office proeess, orders and
entered; it may be In court or at rules. 
decrees.
11.
What order 1tate1; bow H 111 pabllahed
5. Proeesa to commence suit, a summons;
and posted. 
bow lseued; not altered nfterwarda.
12.
Within what time cue may be tried or
I.
How n summons or 11elre faciu la served;
heard after publication; what judg- 
copy made out to be delivered to dement, decree or order ls to be entered.
fentlan t; what time muat elapse before
13.
Within what time ease may be reheard
there i11 final Judgment by default.
and lnjuatlce corrected. 
OJ process generally. 
1. Until the court of appeals shall alter the forms of writs, the same
may be as heretofore used, except so far as is otherwise provided. 
2. Process from any court, whether original, mesne or final, may be 
d h h tr f t f .
irecte to t e s erm o any county or sergean o any corporation, 
except that process against a defendant (unless a rail road, canal, tumpike or telegraph company be defendant), to answer in any action 
brought under the second section of chapter one hundred and sixty-nine,
shall not be directed to an officer of any other county or corporation than
that wherein the action is brought. Any process may be executed on or 
before the return day thereof. If it appear to be duly served and good
in other respects, it shall be deemed valid, although not directed to any 
officer, or if directed to an officer, though executed by any other to whom
it might lawfully have been directed. It shall be returnable, within 
, d aft d b h :fi d f nmety ays er its ate, to t e court on t e rst ay o a term, or m 
the clerk's office, to the first Monday in a month, or to some rule day,
except that a summons for a. witness shall be returnable on whatever dBy
his attendance is desired, and p1ocess awarded in court may be returnable
as the court shall direct. 
3. If at the return day of any process, it be not returned executed, an 
alias, or other proper process, may be issued, without waiting (where the
first process is returnable to a term) for the subsequent process to be 
awarded at rules. And where, for want of a return of the first procea
against a defendant, any subsequent proeesa is issued, if the former was
executed, the officer shall not execute the latter; but shall return the 
former if it be in his possession, and if he has it not, shall return the
latter with an endorsement of the execution of the former, and the proceedings thereupon shall be as if the first had been duly returned. 
4. Every officer who attends a court shall, within five days after the
end of any rules, go to the clerk's office and receive all process, orders 
and decrees to be executed by him, and give receipts therefore. For any
failure so to do, he shall forfeit fifty dollars. 
Process requiring a defendant to appear.
5. The process to commence a suit shall be a writ commanding the 
officer to whom it is directed, to summon the defendant to answer the bill
or action.] It shall be issued on the order of the plaintifff, his attorney 
or agent, and shall not, after it is isaued, be altered, nor any blank therein
filled up, except by the clerk. 
6. Any summons or scire faolaa against any person may be served as
a netice is served under the first section of chapter one hundred and sixtyseven; to which end the clerk issuing such process, nnlese otherwise directed, shall deliver or transmit therewith as many copies thereof as
there arc persons named therein, on whom it is to be served. No judgment by default on a seire facias or summons shall he valid, if it become
final within one month after the service of such process. 
7. It shall be sufficient to serve any process against, or notice to a oorporation, on its mayor, rector, president or other chief officer, or in his~.~/
absence from the county or corporation in which he resides, or in which
is the principal office of the corporation, against or to which the process 
or notice is, if it be a city or town, on the president of the council or 
, 
board of trustees, or 10 his absence, on the recorder or any alderman or
d 
if . b . b 1 .
trustee ; an 1 1t e not a city or town, on t e C88 uer or treasurer ; an 
if there be nono such, or he be absent, on a member of the board of di' ' If h b ' b k f ' 1 ' 
rectors, trustees or visitora, t e case e agamst a an o eireu ation,
and be in a county or corporation wherein the bank has a branch, service on the president or cashier of such branch bank shall be sufficient;
and if the case be against some other corporation than a bank, and there
be not in the county or corporation wherein it is commenced, any other
person on whom there can be service ae aforesaid, service on an agent of
the corporation against which the case is, and publication of a copy of the
process or notice as an order is published under the eleventh section of
this chapter, shall together be sufficient.f Service on any person under
this section, shall be in the county or corporation in which be resides
and the return shall show this, and state on whom and when the service
was, otherwise the service shall not be valid. 
8. In a case against any common carrier (other than a corporation)
for any liability as such, it shall be sufficient to serve any process against
or notice to the carrier, on any agent, or the driver, captain or conductor
of any vehicle, of such carrier, in the county or corporation wherein the
case is commenced, and to publish a copy of the process or notice ae an
order is published under the eleventh section of this chapter. 
Returns of niliil ; and order of publication. 
case, on returns of nihil. 
0 )(). On affidavit that a defendant is not a resident of this state, or that
dilig'ence has been used by or on behalf of the plaintifff to ascertain in 
what county or corporation he is, without effect, or that proeees, directed
to the officer of the county or corporation in which he resides, or0is, has 
been twice delivered to such officer more than ten days before the return
d
d b d 
' b b ' d ~ d b . '
ay, an een retume Wit out emg execute/' an or er of pu lieation 
b d
' h d f d An \. 't . . 
may e entere agamst sue e en ant. m any sm m equity, 
where the bill states that the names of auy pe?Bons inter~d in the
subject to be divided or disposed of, are unknown, and makes such persons defendants by the general description of parties unknown, on affidavit of the fact that the said names are unknown, an order of puQlica- 
tion may be f_!lteryd ,WY. !)lqlj, u~o~ P,ai?:!Ar/r_:order uiiderUli
this section Iflty~J ~ent'recfl 'tlt~'i~ ot''Mn 11\J \.zpa 'Po- 
ceeding by petition, there may be an order of publication in like manner
as in a suit in equity. 
y 11. Every order of publication shall state briefly the object of the 
d h d '" d h ed h
suit, an reqwre t e eren ants agamst w om it is enter , or t e nn- 
known parties, to appear within one month after due publication thereof,
and do what is necessary to protect their interests. It shall be published 
once a week for four sueeeselve weeks, in such newspaper as the court
may prescribe, or if none be so prescribed, as the clerk may direct, and
shall be posted at the front door of the courthouse of the county or corporation wherein the court is held, on the first day of the next county or
corporation court after it is entered. 
'I: 12. When such order shall have been so posted and published, if the
defendants against whom it is entered, or the unknown parties, shall not
appear within one month after such publication is completed, the case may
be tried or heard as to them. Upon any trial or hearing under this section such judgment, decree or order shall be entered as may appear just. 
13. Any unknown party or other defendant who was not served with
process and did not appear in the case before the date of such judgment,
decree or order, or the representative of any such, may, within five years
from that date, if he be not served with a copy of such judgment, decree 
or order, more than a year before the end of the said five years, and if
he be so served, then within one year from the time of such service, 
petition to have the case reheard, and may plead or answer and have any
iajustice in the proceedings corrected. 
S,c.
1.
When rnlee are held, and how long con11.
Declaration good, If It 11ct forth sufficient 
&c. 
tlnued.
matter of substanee,
2.
Docket In which rules are entered. 12.
In trespas, what general avermcnta may 
3.
What la done when no clerk to take a
be omitted.
rule. 13. When account must be filed with decla
4.
Rules may be to declare, plead, or for
ration, In assumpslt,
other proceedings; given from month 14.
How and when plaintifff' may amend de
5. 
CHAPTER CLXXI. 
OF THE RULES, PLEADINGS GENERALLY, !ND JUDGMENTS rx THE
OFFICE. 
v:f. month.
claratlon, or file amended or supple
eu defendant may appear and give 11 mental bill, or bill of reTivor; prorule to file a declaration or bill ; plaineeedlngs thereon. 
tiff' failing to prosecute, non-sulted. 15. Proceedings when cro111 bill ls ff.led.
,6,
Although defendant do not appear, snit
16. As to Infant or ln11BDe defendant; jower 
to be diamlssed after three months. If to appoint guardian ad litem, an .mab
declaration or bill be not filed. him act ; n.e to hi11 costs and charges. 
7.
Whl'U fact of defcndant'11 non-residence 17. Plea In abatement for mimomer not a). 
ls to bo returned, and enit abated. lowed; power to amend, by Inserting 
8.
As to allegations in pleadings; when
right name.
plaoe of contract need not be 11ct forth ;
18.
What defectll can be taken advantage of, 
JI 11ot Corth, how.
only by plea In abatement. 
9.
A11 to averment of jnri11dlctlon; and pro19.
How and when exception mnBt be taken
fert.
to the jnrl11dlctlon. 
10. What 11llegatlonll, not travenable, may 20. What mnst be 11tated In plea In abatebe omitted.
ment for non;Jolnder. 
... 
2L When IBBue on plea fo abat~ment for nonJoinder will be round agalnat defendant. 
22. After such plea, bow declaration may be
amended ; If only part of defendant& 
be liable, how JudJment la to be entered, 
23. Defendant may plead seTenl matters.
24. Unneeessary to 1110 allegation of "ac
tlonem non," or 
precludl non," or
prayer of Judgment. 
II 
'5. Proteatatlon may be omitted. 
26. How traverse, ahall conclude; u to 
pleading over to the Inducement. 
ZI. When plaintifff' may proceed without
Jolnder In demurrer or 1lmlllter. 
213. How plea 1hall commence.
29. After one plea, how another may com
me nee. 
30. Form of demurrer or jolnder In demurrer.
31. What detect, not to be regarded on de
murrera.
:: } As to demurrers and pleaa, In equity.
34 l When answer may be flied; not to delay 
to the eanse ; proeeedlngs on exceptions 
36. to BDIIW8J', 
:rt. Affidavit necessery to plea In abatement,
or plea of non eat faetum. 
&c.
38. Or where denial of handwriting. 
39. Or denial of partnerahlp.
40. Plead.Inga may be 1wom to before clerk; 
affidavit of belief 11nfficlent.
41. l Judgment or decree by confesdon; or la 
42. S the office by default. 
43. In what cue, inquiry of damages unne- 
H:::-;Irment In the office may be set
44. aalde or become ftnal ; tr 111110 joined,
45. when It may be tried; lC ftnaf JudJ
ment, it1 effect aa a lien.
46 l After bill taken for confe1aed, proceeding 
} 
47by attachment, or to have an1wera on 
loterrogatorlo11. 
48. When a 1ult lo equity may be set for
hearing. 
49. When plalntur may proceed to Judgment against part of the defendants. 
50. When snit In equity may be beard aa to
part. of defendants; bow plaintifff' compelled to mature bl1 cause, or have It
dlt1ml1aed. 
5L Control of court over proceedings Ill 
office. 
General provisions as to the rules, 
.:::::J. In the clerk's office of every circuit, county and corporation court.
roles shall be held on the first Monday in every month, except when a
term of a circuit court or a quarterly term of a county or corporation
court happens to commence on the first Monday in a month, or either off 
the two following days, or on the preceding Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday or Saturday, the rules which otherwise would have been held
for the said month on the first Monday, shall be held on the last Monday
in the next preceding month ; and, when in any county or corporation,
the said courts shall commence on the Monday before the first Tuesday
of any month, the rules shall in said county or corporation be held on the
Monday before the commencement of said courts. The rules may continue three days ; but when in any case such continuance would interfere
with the term of the court for which the roles are held, they shall not continue in such case beyond the day preceding the commencement of the
term of such court. 
2. There shall be a docket of the caaes at rules, wherein the rules shall
be entered; and the books in which rules and orders are entered, in 
chancery cases, sha11 be separate from those in which rnles and orders are
entered in other cases. 
3. When there is no clerk to take a rnle in ~ case, it shall stand continued until the next rule day after there is a clerk. 
4. The rules may be to declare, plead, reply, rejoin, or for other proceedings ; they shall be given from month to month. 
Wlun the ,uit will abate or be dismissed. 
5. A defendant may appear at the rule day at which the process against
hi 
. bl if . b bl . th fi I d ft 
m is retuma e, or 1t e returns e m term, at e rat ru e ay a er~;
the return day, and if the declaration or bill be not then filed, may give::
a rnle for the plaintifff to file the same. If the plaintifff' fail to do this at 
the succeeding rule day, or shall, at any time after the defendant's ap-: 
pearance, fail to prosecute his suit, he shall be non-suited, and pay to the
defendant, besides his costs, :five dollars. 
6. If three months elapse after the process is returned executed as to
any one or more of the defendants, without the declaration or bill being
filed, the clerk shall enter the suit dismissed, although none of the defendants may have appeared. 
7. When a summons to answer an action or bill is against a defendant,
h h ffi ( . . . ) kn id hi ty 
w om t e o cer recemng It ows not to rest e m s conn or corporation, he shall, unless he :find him therein before the return day, return 
him a non-resident; whereupon, if the court from which such pl'00088
issued have jurisdiction of the case only on the ground of such defendant's residence in such OQunty or corporation, the suit shall ab~te as to 
him. 
General rules as to immaurial allegation.,.
8. It shall not be necessary in any declaration or other pleading to set 
forth th~ place in which any contract was made, or act done, unless when,
from the nature of the case, the place is material or traversable, and
then the allegation may be as to a deed, note or other writing bearing
date at any place, that it was made at such place, or as to any other act,
according to the fact, without averring or suggesting that it was at or in 
the county or corporation in which the action is brought, unless it was in
fact therein. 
9. It shall not be necessary in any action to aver that the cause of
action arose, or that the matter is within the jurisdiction of the court, or
to make profcrt of any deed, letters testamentary or commission of administration ; but a defendant may have oyer in like manner as if profert
were made. 
10. All allegations which are not traversable, and which the party
could not be required to prove, may be omitted unless when they are required for the right understanding of allegations that are material. 
Of the declaration.
I I. No action shall abate for want of form, where the declaration sets 
forth sufficient matter of substance for the court to proceed upon the
merits of the cause. 
12. In actions of trespass, general avermenta that the defendant committed other wrongs, and that the acts charged were done with force and
arms and against the p;ace, may be omitted; and the plaintifff may
prove all that he could have done if such averments had been inserted in
the declaration. 
13. In every action of assumpeit the plaintifff shall file with his declaration an account stating distinctly the several items of hie claim, unlees
it be plainly described in the deolaratiou.] 
Amended or supplemental bill, bill of revivor and cross bill.
14. The plaintifff may of right amend his declaration or bill before the 
defendant's appearance, and notwithstanding such appearance, a plaintifff 
' 
in equity may, at any time in the vacation of the court wherein the suit
is pending, file in the clerk's office an amended or supplemental bill or 
bill of revivor; whereupon the same proceedings may be had es if leave 
t.o file it had been previously obtained in court, but the court on the motion of a defendant, made at the term to which process to answer the
1&me is returned executed on him, or if it be returnable to rules, at the
first term after it ie so returned, may dismiss such amended or supple- 
mental bill, or bill of revivor.
15. When a cross bill is filed, the defendants in the first bill shall an- 
swer it, before the defendants in the cross bill are compelled to answer 
that. 
Guardian ad litem to inf ant or in,cme defendant.
16. The proceedings in a suit, wherein an infant or insane person is a 
party, shall not be stayed because of such infancy or insanity, but the
court in which the suit is ponding, or the clerk at rules, may appoint a
guardian ad litem to nny infant or insane defendant, whether such defendant shall have been served with process or not. The court may compel~ 
the person so appointed to act, but he shall not be liable for costs, and
shall be allowed his reasonable charges, which the party on whose motion 
he was appointed shall pay.
Matter of abatement. 
17. No plea. in abatement for a misnomer shall be allowed in ~y ac- 
tion, but in a case wherein, but for this section, a misnomer would have
been pleadnble in abatement, the declaration may, on the defendant's
motion, and on affidavit of the right name, be amended by inserting the
right name. 
18. In other cases, a defendant, on whom the process, summoning
him to answer, appears to have been served, shall not take advantage of
any defect in the writ or return, or any variance in the writ from the declaration, unless the same be pleaded in abatement. 
t 19. Where the declaration or bill shows on its face proper matter for
the jurisdiction of the court, no exception for want of such jurisdiction
shall be allowed, unless it be taken by plea in abatement, and the plea 
shall not be received after the defendant has demurred, pleaded in bar,
or answered to the declaration or bill, nor after a rule to plead, or a conditional judgment or decree nisi, 
20. No plea in abatement, for the non-joinder of any person as a codefendant, shall be allowed in any action, unless it be stated in the plea 
t.hat such person is a resident of this state, and unless the place of residence of such person be stated with convenient certainty in an affidavit
verifying the plea. 
21. If u defendant plead in abatement that any other persons ought to
be jointly sued, and at the trial of an issue joined on such plea, it appear 
that tho action could not, by reason of chapter one hundred and fortyth.rec, or chapter one hundred and forty-nine, be maintained against such 
other persons, or any of them, suoh iasue shall be found against the de,. 
fendant BO pleading.
22. After such plea in abatement, the plaintifff', without prooeeding 1IO 
trial upon an issue thereon, may amend hie declaration, and make the
persons named in such plea as joint contractors, defendants in the cue 
with the original defendants, and cause proeese to be served upen the
new defendants ; and if it appear by the subsequent pleadings in the
action, or at the trial thereof, that all the original defendan~ are liable,
but that one . or more of the other persons named in such plea are not
liable, the plaintifff' shall be entitled to judgment, or to verdict and judgment as the case may be, against the defendants who appear liable; and
such as are not liable, shall have judgment and recover costs as against
the plaintifff', who shall be allowed the same as costs against the def andante who BO pleaded. 
General rules as to pleas and subsequent pleadings.
23. The defendant in any action may plead as many several matters, 
whether of law or fact, as he shall think necessary.24. In a plea, replication or subsequent pleading, intended to be 
pleaded in bar, or in maintenance of the action, it shall not be necessary to 
use any allegation of "actionem non," or "precludi non," or to the like
effect, or any prayer of judgment. 
25. No party shall be prejudiced by omitting a protestation in any 
pleading.
26. All special traverses, or traverses with an inducement of affirma
tive matter, shall oonclude to the country. But this regulation shall not
preolude the opposite party from pleading over to the inducement when
the traverse is immaterial. 
27. When the plaintifff' takea iasue on the defendant's pleading, or traverses the same or demurs, so that the defendant is not let in to allege
any new matter, the plaintifff may, without giving a rule to i:ejoin, proceed
as if there were a similiter or joinder in demurrer. 
Particularly as to pleas and demurrers.
28. No formal defense shall be required in a plea ; it shall commence 
as follows : " the defendant says that."
29. It shall not be necessary to state in a second or other plea, that it 
is pleaded by leave of the court, or according to the form of the statute,
or to that effect. 
30. The form of a demurrer or joinder in demurrer shall be: "the
defendant ( or plaintifff) says that the declaration ( or plea, &c.) is not ( or
is) sufficient in law." 
31. On a. demurrer (unless it be to a plea. in abatement) the court shall
not regard any defect orimperfection in the declaration or pleadings,
whether it has been heretofore deemed mispleading or insufficient plead
ing or not, unless there be omitted something so essential to the action or
defense that judgment, according to law and the very right of the cause, 
cannot be given. No demurrer shall be sustained, because of the omis- 
l di f h d } . h ad ryth'
sion m any pea mg o t e wor s, "t us e 1s re y to ven ," or, " 18 
he is ready to verify by the record," or, "as appears by the record;" but
th 
. b ed fr I . d . h .
e opposite party may e excus om rep ymg, emurnng, or ot erwise 
answering to any pleading which ought to have, but has not, such words
therein, until they be inserted. 
32. A plaintifff in equity may have any plea. or demurrer set down to 
be argued. If the same be overruled, no other plea or demurrer shall
afterwards be received, but there shall be a rule upen the defendant to
answer the bill. 
33. A plaintifff in equity may take issue upon a plea, and have such
issue tried by jury.If the plea be found false, he shall have the same
advantages as if it llad been so found by a verdict at law. 
.Answers and exceptions thereto.
34. At any time before final decree a defendant may be allowed to file 
his answer, but a cause shall not be sent to the rules or continued, because
an answer is filed in it, unless good cause be shown therefore. 
35. When the plaintifff files exceptions to an answer, they shall be set
d b
d
own to e argue . 
36. When exceptions to an answer have been sustained, if the defendant put in a second answer, which is adjudged insufficient, he may be 
. d . . d . d 1 h h
m:amme upon mterrogatones an committe unti e answers t em. 
Of pleadings which are to be verified.
:J"/. No plea in abatement or plea of non est factum shall be received, 
t,unless it be vel!@.t"by oath.] 
~Where~ ~claration or other pleading alleges that any person
made, endorsed, assigned' or accepted any writing, no proof of the hand- 
. . b iworl n.1 th r. b d . d
wntm~ ?['\such ~~op. .s~~l 
e ~equ'?-0, ... ~Tf~~ ~. e 1act e eme by an
~davit mtli~~Jle! iti11i 'p'U'is 'it in issue. . 
1 
39. where pfalntuf s or defendants sue or are sued as partners, and
their names are set forth in the declaration or bill, it shall not be neees- 
sary to prove the fact of the partnership, unless with the pleading, which
h 
h b affid d h hi
puts t e matter m rssue, t ere e an aVIt enymg sue partners 1p. 
40. Any bill, answer or other pleading to be filed in any court, may
be sworn to before the clerk thereof.And where an affidavit is required
in support of any pleading, it shall be sufficient if the affiant swear that
he believes it to be true. 
Judgment or decree by confession.
41. In any suit a defendant may confess a judgment or decree in the 
olerk's office, for 110 much principal and interest as the plaintifff may be
willing to accept a judgment or decree for. The same shall be entered 
of record by the clerk in the order or minute book, and be as final and as
valid as if entered in court on the day of such confession, except merely
that the court shall have such control over it as is given by the last sec- 
tion of this chapter. 
42. If a defendant who appears fail to plead, answer or demur to the 
I bill l b . hi l ad If h e. ll
eo aration or 1 , a ru e may e given rm to p e . e rai to ap- 
pear at the rule day at which the process against him is returned executed, or, when it is returnable to a term, at the first rule day after it is
so returned, the plaintifff', if he has filed his declaration or bill, may have 
conditional judgment or decree nisi as to such defendant. No service
of such decree nisi or conditional judgment shall be necessary. But at 
the next rule day after the same is entered, if the defendant continue in
default, or at the expiration of any rule upon him with which he fails to 
comply, if the case be in equity, the bill shall be eatered as taken for
confessed as to him, and if it be at law, judgment shall be entered against
him, with an order for the damages to be inquired into, when such enquiry is proper. 
"'f-43. Thero need be no such inquiry in an action of debt upon any bond
or other writing for the payment of money, or against the drawer or en
dorsers of a bill of exchange or negotiable note, or in an action of debt
or seire facias upon a judgment or recognizance. 
H<YW office judgment is set aside OT becomes final ; its effect. 
--44. Every judgment entered in the office in a case wherein there is no 
order for an inquiry of damages, and every non-suit or diamission entered
therein, shall, if not previously set aside, become a final judgment, if the 
case be in the general or a circuit court, of the last day of the next term,
(whichever shall happen first), and if it be in 
f
county or corporation court of the last day o the next quarterly term, 
and have the same effect by way of lien or otherwise as a judgment rendered in the court at such term. Every such judgment for any plaintifff' 
shall be for the principal sum due, with interest thereon, from the time it
bl ( d b . ) ill l 
ecame paya e or commence eanng interest t1 payment, un ese 1t 
. h . . . d . l l h . f h t 
e m sue action as is mentlone m t ie e event section o c ap er one
hundred and forty-four, in which case it shall be according to that section. 
45. If a defendant, against whom judgment is entered in the office,
shall, before it becomes final, appear and pleadto issue, it shall be set
aside, unless an order for inquiry of damages has been executed; in 
which case it shall not be set aside without good cause. Any such issue
may be tried at the same term, unless the defendant s'how good cause for 
continuance. 
Judgment OT decree in the o.ffice, by default. 
Proceeding by attachment after bill taken for confessed.
46. Although a bill be taken for confessed as to any defendant, the 
1 ' "ff h h . hi d ~ hi to be
ainti may ave an attac ment aga.mst rm, or an or er ror m 
. N l d h ll b
roug t m to answer interrogatories. o p ea or emurrer s a e re- 
ceived after such attachment, unless by order of court, upon motion.
47. If a defendant, after process of contempt, put in an answer which 
is adjudged' insufficient, the plaintifff may go on with the subsequent process of contempt as if no answer had been filed. 
When a suit in equity may be set for hearing. 
48. A plaintifff in equity may, at or after the rule day at which the 
bill is taken for eonfeesed as to any defendant, or at which his answer is
filed, have the cause set for hearing as to such defendant ; and it may be 
BO set for hearing on the answer, or upon a general replication thereto, as
the plaintifff may prefer. ff four months elapse after the answer of a defendant is filed, without the case being so set, and without exceptions being
filed to his answer, he may have the case set for hearing as to himself. 
Where a ccue is ready only aa lo part of defendanu.
49. Where, in an action against two or more defendants, the process 
is served on part of them, the plaintifff may proceed to judgment as to any
so served, and either discontinue it as to the others, or from time to time, 
as the process is served as to such others, proceed to judgment as to them
until judgments be obtained against all. 
:::&a. ff a suit in equity be set for hearing as to any defendant, it shall
be heard as to him, unless his interests be so connected with those of:
other defendants in the suit, that it would. be improper to decide upon
their interests separately. And though there be such connection, a defendant as to whom the case has been set for hearing, may have an order
upon the plaintifff to use due diligence to mature the cause for hearing as
to the other defendants, and, unless it be so matured within such time as
the court may deem reasonable, shall be entitled to a hearing or dismission of it as to him. 
Control of court over proceedings in the office.
51. The court shall have control over all proceedings in tbe office, 
d
. h di . I . d' . d 
unng t e prece mg vacation. t may reinstate any cause iacontmue
during such vacation, set aside any of the said proceedings or correct any 
d , b
mistake therein, an make such order concerning the .aame as may e 
just. 
Sec.
&A. 
L Payment before action brought, may be
pleaded, 
} 
Defendant may pay Into court a sum on 
2. account of matter of 111llt, and plead
3. that plaintifff' 111 not entitled to more: 
proceedings thereupon. 
CHAPTER CLXXII. 
OP. PAYMENT AND SETOFF. 
4. Payment or eetoff may be allowed, If
descrlbed in pleu or account ; as to Bet
tlng olf, when claim la ogain1t 11ennl, 
debt to one of them. 
5.} Special plea of eetoft'; proceedlnga there
6. upon; na to effect of this chapter ou
7. voluntary bonds. 
8. Whfln plea or eetoff' goes to part only of
demand. 
9. Defendant clnlmlnt a 11etoff' put on the
footlng of a plalntUf. 
I. In any action of debt, the defendant may plead payment of the
debt ( or of so much as is due by the condition) before action brought. 
2. In any personal action, the defendant may pay into court to the
clerk a sum of money on account of what is claimed, or by way of compensntion or' amends, and plead that he is not indebted to the plaintifff 
( or that tho plaintifff has not sustained damages) to a greater amount
than the said sum. 
3. The plaintifff may accept the said sum either in full satisfaction, and 
then have judgment for his costs, or in part satisfaction, and reply to the
plea generally, and if issue thereon be found for the defendant, judgment
shall be given for the defendant, and he shall recover his costs. 
4. In a suit for any debt, the defendant may at the trial prove, and
b 11 d . h d b ff hi h . d 
ave a owe agamst sue e t, any payment or seto w ic 1s so escribed in his plea, or in an account filed therewith, as to give the plaintifff 
notioe of its nature, but not otherwise. Although the claim of the plaintiff be jointly against several persons, and the setoff is of a debt not t.o
all but only to a part of them, this section shall extend to such setotf, if
it appear that the persons, against whom such claim is, stand in the relation
of principal and surety, and the person entitled to the set.off' is the prin
eipal.s
5. In any action on a contract, the defendant may file a plea, alleging 
any such failure in the consideration of the contract, or fraud in its procurement, or any such breach of any warranty to him of the title or the
sonndnesa of personal property, for the price or value whereof he entered
into the contract, as would entitle him, either to recover damages at law
from the plaintifff', or the person under whom the plaintifff' claims, or t.o 
relief in equity, in whole or in part, against the obligation of the contraot;
or if the contract be by deed, alleging any such matter existing before
its execution, or any such mistake therein, or in the execution thereof, aa
would entitle him to such relief in equity ; and in either case alleging the
amount to which he is entitled by reason of the matters contained in the
plea. Every such plea shall be verified by affidavit. 
6. If a defendant, entitled to such plea. as is mentioned in the preceding section, shall not tender it, or though he tender it, if it be rejected 
for not being offered in due time, he shall not be precluded from such
relief in equity as he would have been entitled to if the preoeding section
had not been enacted. If any such plea be rejected by the court as bad,
or adjudged insufficient on demurrer, or if, when issue in fact is joined
thereon, such issue be found against the defendant, he shall be barred of
relief in equity upon the matters alleged in the plea, unless upon such
ground as would entitle a party to relief against a judgment in other 
cases. Every such issue in fact shall be upon a, general replication that 
the plea is not true ; and the plaintifff' may give in evidence, on such issue,
any matter which could be given in evidence under a special replication,
if such replication were allowed. 
7. Nothing in this chapter shall impair or affect the obligation of any
bond or other deM deemed voluntary in law upon any party thereto, or
his representatives. 
8. If the defendant file a plea or account of setoff which covers or applies to part of the plaintifff's demand, judgment may be forthwith rendered for the part not controverted and the costs accrued until the filing
of the plea or account, and the case shall be proceeded with for the residue, as if the part for which judgment was rendered had not been included therein. And if, in addition to such plea or account, the defendant plead some other plea, going to the whole or residue of the demand, 
the case shall not be continued 88 to the part not controverted by the plea
or account of setoft's, unless the additional plea. be also verified by affidayit,
or good cause be shown for such continuance. 
9. A defendant who files a plea or account under this chapter shall be
deemed to have brought an action against the plaintifff (at the time ofl;eo. 
filing the same), for the matters mentioned in such plea or account, and
the plaintifff shall not, after the plea or account is filed, dismiss his case
without the defendant's consent, but shall be entitled to every ground of
defense against the defendant's demand, of which he might have availed 
hi If b a1 l h . . . b h . 
imse y any speer p ea or ot erwrse m any action roug t aguinst
him upon the same demand. On the trial of the issue in such case, the
jury shall ascertain the amount to which the defendant is entitled, and 
apply it as a setoff against the plaintifff;s demand, and, if the said amount
be more than the plaintifff is.entitled to, shall ascertain the amount of the
excess, and fix the time from which interest is to be computed on the
same, or any part thereof. Judgment, in such case, shall be for the defendant against the plaintifff for said excess, with such interest from the
said time till payment. 
OF THE DEATH OR CHANGE OF PARTIES; AND THE DISCONTINGANCE
OF CAUSES NOT PROSECUTED. 
&c.
1. When death or other fact occurs after 
verdict and before judgmon&. 
2. Where It occurs as to ony of several 
plaintifff's or defendants, lo a 1ult, the
cause of which survivea for or against 
others. 
CHAPTER CLXXIII. 
3. Where It occun after appeal, writ of error or aupersedeas. 
4. For and again1t whom IClre facla.s may 
be sued ont; when suit may be revived on motion; when new party may 
have a contlnuanee or amend pleadlng11. 
~ Scire faclas may be Issued lo vacation; 
order of revival may be entered at 
rules,
6. Whoro party, whose powers B.'I commit
tee or repre1entatlve cease, 111 defendant, how suit Is proceeded in. 
7. When suit will be dlscontlnued, unless 
revived. 
8. Where for seven yeDrM no proceeding in
a case but to continue it, the court may 
strike It from the docket,
9. Decree wht>rc one party dles or marrle1. 
10. Right of absent par tles to rehearing 
within ft ve yean. 
I. Where a party dies, or becomes convict of felony, or insane, or a
female party marries, or the powers of a party, who is a personal repre- 
sentative or committee, cease, if such fact occur after verdict, judgment
may be entered as if it bad not occurred. 
2. Where such fact occurs in any stage of a cause, whether it be in a
court of original or appellate jurisdiction, if it occur a, to any of several
plaintifff's or defendants, the suit may proceed for or against the others, if 
the cause of suit survive to or against them.
3. If, in any case of appeal, writ of error or aupersedees, which is now 
er may hereafter be pending, there be at any time in an appellate court,
suggested or relied on. in abatement, the death of o. party, or any other
fa.ct, which, if it had occurred after verdict in an action, would not have
prevented judgment being entered (aa if it had not occurred), the appellate court may, in ita discretion, enter judgment or decree in such case as
if the said fact had not have occurred. 
4. In any stage of any case a scire faoias may be sued out for or aga.inf:lt
the committee of any party who is insane or convict, or for or against a
person before insane, the powers of whose committee have ceased, or for
or against the husband of any such female party, or for or against the
personal representative of the decedent who or whose personal representative was a party, or for or against the heirs or devisees of a decedent 
who was a party, to show cause why the suit should not proceed in the
name of him or them. Or where the party dying, or whose powers cease, 
h . . ti l . ) . "ff Ila h 
or sue msano person, convict, or ema e 1s p amtt or appe nt, t e person or persons for whom such scire facias might be sued out, may, with
out notice or scire facias, move that the suit proceed in his or their name.
In the former case, after service of the scire faeias, or in the latter case, 
on such motion, if no sufficient cause be shown against it, an order shall 
d , .
be entered that the suit proeee according to such seire facias or motion, 
\. h ( Il ) h 
,f, ny sue new party except m an appe ate court may ave a continunnce of the case at the term at which such order is entered ; and the court
may allow him to plead anew or amend the pleadings so far as it deems
reasonable ; but in other respects the case shall proceed to final judgment 
or decree for or against him, in like manner as if the case had been pending for or against him before such scire facias or motion. 
5. The clerk of tho court in which the case is, may issue suoh scire
facias at any time, and an order may be entered at rules for a. case t.o 
proceed in the name of the proper party, although the case be on the
court docket. 
6. Where the party whose powers cease is defendant, the plaintifff may 
continue his suit against him to final judgment or decree; but he shall
not, at law, proceed in the same action against such defendant and hie 
successor; nor shall he, in equity, proceed against both upon hie pre
vious bill, unless an order, that the suit proceed against the former party,
be entered at the first term after service of a seire facias for or against
such successor. 
7. If the committee, husband, personal representative, heirs or devlsees 
f h 1. 'ff 11 h f h d d h
o t e p amt1 or appe ant w o was a party, or o t e ece ent w ose 
personal representative was plaintifff or appellant, shall not make such
motion, or apply for such seire facias, at or before the second term of the 
court next after that at which there may have been a suggestion on the 
record of the fact making such scire faeias or motion proper, the snit of
such plaintifff or appellant shall be discontinued, unless good cause be 
shown to the contrary.
8. Any court in which is pending any case wherein for more than 
seven yen.rs there has been no order or proceeding hut to continue it,
may, in its discretion, order such case to be struck from its docket; and
it shall thereby be discontinued. A court making such order may direct
it to be published by the public printer. Any such case may be reinstated, on motion, within one year from the date of such order, bot not 
after,
9. When in any suit in equity, the number of parties exceeds thirty, 
and any one of said parties jointly interested with others in any question
arising therein shall die or marry, the court may nevertheless proceed, if
in its opinion all classes of interests in the case are represented, and the
interests of no one will be prejudiced by the trial of the cause, to render
a decree in such suit as if suoh person were alive or had not married; 
decreeing to the heirs o.t law, distributees or representatives of such person ( as the case may require) such interest as such person would have
been entitled to, had such person been alive, or as if such person had not
married during the pendency of this suit. 
JO. The provisions of the thirteenth section of chapter one hundred
d
hall l
d
d
d thi
an seventy s app y to eorees entere un er s act. 
CHAPTER CLXXIV. 
OP THE REMOVAL OF CAUSES PENDING IN ONE COURT TO ANOTHER. 
&e.
1. Where eult rell18ine pending In county or 
l Power of circuit court or judge to re3
corporation court more than a year.
2 
move eases in a circuit, county or eor. poration court, 
,'lee. 
4. When !!Ult li1 removed, clerk'" duty; proeeedlngs ln court to which it Is re
moved; co11t1 attending removal. 
1. Where any suit, motion or other proceeding shall have remained
pending in a county or corporation court more than a year, without being 
determined, such court, on the motion of any party to such suit, motion
or other proceeding, or his representative (without notice), shall order it 
to be removed to the circuit court having jurisdiction over such county
or corporation. 
2. On the motion of any party to a suit in a county or corporation
court, who desires to remove the same into the circuit court having jurisdiction over such county or corporation, the said circuit court, or the 
judge thereof in vacation, after twenty dnys' previous notice to the
adverse party, may order such removal. 
3. On the motion of any party to o. snit in a circuit court, the said
rt d 
it to b d to th . . h
con may or er 1 e remove any o er circuit court, or to t e 
court of the county or corporation for which the former circuit court is
held. The judge of said court, in vacation, may make such order, after
reasonable notice to the adverse party. The order of removal may be
made by the court or judge, without motion or notice, when the judge is
so situated as to render it improper, in his judgment, for him to decide, 
or preside at the trial of, the cause.
4. When any suit is ordered to be removed under this chapter, the 
clerk of the court from which, shall transmit to the clerk of the court to
which, it. is removed, the original papers therein, with the copies of all
rules and orders made, and a statement of the costs incurred hy each 
party therein : whereupon the case shall be proceeded in, heard and
determined by tho court to which it is removed, as if it had been brought,
and the previous proceedings bad, in said court. The costs attending
such removal, shall be charged as may be thought just by the court from
which, or if it make no order on the subject, by the court to which, tho
case is removed.
OF THE APPOINTMENT OF COMMISSIONERS IN CHANCERY, THE REFERENCE OF ACCOUNTS TO THEM, AND THE PROCEEDINGS THEREUPON. 
Sec.
L Aa to caae In commhulloner'a h1111da when 
chapter tu.ke11 eff'ect. 
2. Power to appoint eommlssloners j how
many; how removable. 
3. Power to appoint In vaeatlon.
4. Accountii to be referred to such eommts
&loner, unless otherwlse agreed by the 
fsB!!~1!i;i~\~!!;~~nll~~~ :ii.uatlco who 
5. Power In court to make publication In a
newspaper equivalent to personal ser
vice. 
I. Any commissioner in chancery may complete the execution of any
order or decree in his hands, when this chapter takes effect, unless the
court otherwise direct. 
2. Each court may, from time to time, appoint commissioners in ehaacery, or for stating accounts, who shall be removable at its pleasure;
there shall not be more than three such commissioners in office at the 
same time for the same court.
3. The judge of any circuit court empowered to appoint commissioners 
in chancery, or for stating accounts, may in vacation appoint such commissioners with as much effect as the court could appoint them, and they 
shall have the like powers. 
CHAPTER CLXXV. 
[;. 
6. Power of circuit Judge In vacation to dJ. 
rect an account. 
7. When commlsBioner may submit a polDt 
} 
to a circuit court or Judge. 
Power of commissioner to adjourn proceedings; how his report must be made 
8. out; h11 llabUlty If not properly made
9. out; how long he retains It; how ex
cepted to; what he returns with re- 
10. wt~1;cause 18 heard on commlaaloner'a
report. 
"::d. Accounts to be taken in any case shall be referred to a commissioner
so appointed, unless the parties interested agree that they be referred to 
some other person. A justice, who is a commissioner, shall not decide on
the reference of an account, nor on a report made by him. Every commissioner shall examine, and report upon, such accounts and matters as
may be ref erred to him by any court. 
5. The court ordering an account to be taken, may direct that notice
of the time and place of taking it be published once a week for four suecessive weeks in some convenient newspaper, and that such publication
shall be equivalent to personal service of such notice on the parties, or
any of them. . 
: 6. Any circuit judge may, in vacation, direot any proper account to be
taken in a cause in a court of his circuit. 
7. A commissioner who doubts as to any point which arises before him,
in taking an account to be returned to a circuit court, may, in writing, 
submit the point to such court, or the judge thereof, who may instruct
him thereon. 
~- A commissioner may adjourn his proceedings from time to time,
after the day to which notice was given (without any new notice), until
his report is completed; and when it is completed, unless it be otherwise
ordered by the court, or agreed by the parties, he shall retain it ten days
for their examination. Any party, without being at the expense of taking
a copy, may inspect the report, and file exceptions thereto ; and the commissioner shall, with his report, return the exceptions, and such remarks
thereon as he may deem pertinent, and the evidence relating thereto. 
9. With his report the commissioner shall return the decrees, orders 
and notices under which he acted. He shall not copy in his account or
report any paper ; and if there has been a previous account, he shall not
copy it into bis, but, taking it as the basis of his, correct the errors and
supply the defects thereof by an additional statement. Emry thing improperly copied into a commissioner's account shall be expunged at his
costs, on the application of either party; and if on account of his negligence or misconduct a report be recommitted, he shall bear the costs occasioned thereby. 
)it( A cause may be heard upon a commissioner's report, after it shall
have been returned thirty days; and if the report be under an order re- 
committing a former report, the cause may be beard without waiting the
said thirty days.
Ste. 
I. or acts 1111d resolutions of the lt>gWatnre.
2. Journal of either house.
3. Signature of the judges or governor. 
l
Copie11 of certain deeds allowed in cTI
:1 office of a court or ofiicll of secretary
of the commonwealth, treasurer, regis
deuce. Record of paper lo clerk'R 
ter, or either auditor.
6. Defendant In a 11ult required to plead to 
RD attested copy as if it were an original. 
7. 'Whl'n court may deliver out orlginnl paper, retaining a copy. 
'\'hen and how court mny havo its re8 cords or those In survevor's offico, 
to bound or copied; bow expense 111 paid ;
10. copy examined; when ltil correctness 
}
}
eertl1ied, credit gh-en to It. 
"hcn a book or paper In n clerk's office
11. Ill lost or illegible, how new record is 
. mado; effect thereof; how expense ill
defrayed. 
Jlow eoutents of such record or paper
13. mny bo proved before commissioner; 
14. hla Journnl, nnd evidence before him,
returned to cltrk's office. 
}
CHAPTER CLXXVI. 
13. How to antbentlcnte records of a court of
unother state or of the United Stated; 
thelrcff'l'<'t,
16. Reeords and cxempltflcctlons of office 
hooks In ,i public office of the United
fitntes or of a state, not pertaining to
n court. 
17. Foreign deeds, powers of nttorncy, poll
Ch!11 of Insurance, &c.
18. Person competent 0.1 a wltucss, though 
aR"~11ed with levies for n county or
corporation. 
19. "'hen sueh person, or no offl.eer of n
county or corporation, or a fiduciary i11 
not incompetent by reason of his being
u pnrty to u case or liable for costs, 
20. ,vhen n ncgro or indlan is competent;
when not. 
~l. Summons for witness; bow Issued and
to whom dlrected, 
How subpccaa duces tecum IR l1111ucd. 
OF E\'IDENCF.. 
Ser.
~- Wltnes11 failing to attend may be fined 
(IDd proceeded against by attachment.
24. ,v1tne111 attending and ret\tslng to give 
evldenee or produce writtng, may be
committed to jail. 
26. Of Interpreters, 
i 
Who may administer an oath or take an 
~"ffldavlt. How affida\'lt taken out of
thl11 state 111 authenttcated, 
28. ,vbat affidavit le snffielcnt to prove nonresidence of u. witues11. How publlcu
tlon in a newspaper le proved,
29. Depositlon may be taken in tbts stato 
without a eornmlsslon ; hy whom ; bow
cerfitled, Alli to taking deposition of 
party.
30. How commlsslon IK lasued to take depo
sltlon of witne1111 out of thlH state; to
whom dlrected ; how de11011ltion au
t hentleuted,
31. Notice to be given of tnking a deposi
tlon ; In what stage of a suit In equity
lleposlt.ion may be returned und read. 
:J2. Under what clrcumstances depositlon
may be read at low. 
J3. When party taking deposition does not
rend it, other party mny. 
34. How deposirlon may be taken after de,
clslon of a cnnse in which an appeal or
lliUpl'rl!l!dl'IIK lil'II, 
35. now to perpetuate testimony. 
l 
Allowuneo to witness tor nttcndance; 
3(i how entered nod puld ; how dispute
to between witn11111 and party 111 doter- 
3t'. J mlued ; power of court to restrlet tuxatton In co11t11 for witne1111e11. 
JIO\v to compel dlscovery or production
:l9 of docnment by ndvvrso J!arty; whe
to th e r right to proceed by bill in equity 
-11. for dlscovery ill affected by proceeding
under these sectlona, 
} 
!~: } EffrC't of party's ubscnce for seven years,
44. Excluding evidence for want of purtleu
lnrs of claim or defense.
45. Evidence In mitigation of dnmages, 
Proceedings of legislature; and signature of governor or judges.
1. Acts and resolutions of the general assembly, though local or pri- 
vate, may be given in evidence without being specially pleaded; and an 
appellate court shall take judicial notice of such as appear to have been
below.s 
2. Copies of the journal of either house of the assembly, printed by its
printer, shall be received as evidence for any purpose for which the origi- 
nal journal could be received.
3. All courts and officers shall take notice of the signature of any of 
the judges, or of the governor of this state, to any judicial or official document. 
Copieof certain deeds evidence; records and papers in public offices.
4. Copies of deeds, acknowledged or proved and certified according to 
the act of the thirteenth December seventeen hundred and ninety-two,
and placed upon record after the expiration of two years, the period prescribed by tho act of the twenty-fifth December seventeen hundred and
ninety-four, but before the passage of the act of seventh February eighteen hundred and fourteen, shall be received in evidence, and hare all
the force 
0and
effect of copies of deeds recorded within two years, the pe
riod prescribed as aforesaid : provided, that nothing in this act shall be
construed so as to affect the rights of creditors and subsequent purehasere
without notice. 
5. A copy of any record or paper in the clerk's office of any court, or
in the office of the secretary of the common wealth, f treasurer, register or
either auditor, attested by the officer in whose office the same is, may be 
admitted as evidence in lieu of the original. And the certificate of the
auditor of public accounts of the fact and time of the return of any real 
estate as delinquent, or of the sale thereof for taxes, shall be prime. faeie
id f h ted h ifl A h 5 
en ence o w at 1s sta m sue certi cate. ny sue copy or eerti cate purporting to be sealed, or sealed and signed, or signed alone, by
any such officer, may be admitted as evidence without any proof of the 
seal or signature, or of the official character of the person whose name is 
d .
signe to it, The certificate of the auditor of public accounts of the 
payment or non-payment at any time of taxes on forfeited or delinquent
lands, or of their not having been entered on the books of the commissioner of the revenue for the county or counties wherein the same were
chargeable with taxes, shall, in any suit in relation to such lands, he
prima facie evidence of what is stated in such certificate, provided it be
filed with the papers of said suit at least twenty days before the first day
of the term at which it is to be offered as evidence. When the certificate 
purports to be signed by the said auditor, it may be admitted as evidence
without proof of his signature. 
6. Such a copy of any writing filed in a suit, may be filed in another
snit on the same writing, and the defendant shall plead thereto M if the 
original were filed.
7. The court in the clerk's office whereof there -is an original paper 
filed inn cause (although decided) may, for good cause, order it to be delivered to any person, retaining in its stead a copy thereof, and may make 
any order to prevent the improper U80 of tho original.
8. The court of any county may order any of the books or records in 
the office of the survevor of such county, and any court may order any of lW>-7. 
its own books or reco~ds, to be bound or transcribed, and make n reason- ~~:a!::~,c.20 
able allowance therefore, which shall be chargeable to the county or town
when the order is by a county or corporation court, and in other cases be 
paid out of the treasury.
9. No such allowance shall be made for any transcript until eommis- Id 
sioncrs appointed for the purpose by the court shall have examined it,
and written at the foot thereof a certificate of its correctness. Thenceforth the same faith and credit shall be given to it that the book or record
transcribed would have been entitled to. 
10. A court may hare any of its books or records taken ont of the Id 
county or corporation to be bound.
II. Where any book containing judgments, decrees or proceedings of 
a court is lost or illegible, and there can be again entered correctly, by
means of any writing, any matters which were in such book, such court 
may cause its clerk to have such matters re-entered, and such re-entries
shall have the same effect as the original entries. For any sen-ices of
the clerk under this section, not rendered necessary by his own neglect,
the court shall allow him a reasonable compensation, which shall be
chargeable on the county or corporation. 
12. Where any such book, or any book containing the record of wills,
deeds or other pepers, or where any paper filed in a clerk's office, is lost or 
illegible, the clerk in whose office such book or paper WM, upon the production to him of any original paper which was recorded in such book, or
of an attested copy of the record thereof, or of any thing else in such
book, or of any paper so filed, shall, on application, record the same
anew. The record shall show whether it is made from an original or a
copy, and how the paper from which it was made was authenticated or
attested. Such record shall have, as far as may be, the same effect that
the record or paper for which it is substiiuted would have had. 
'fta. Any person desirous of proving the contents of any paper so filed,
or any thing which was of record in any such book, may file with a com- 
missioner holding his office under the appointment of the circuit court for 
h hi h h 1 k ffi , . .
t e county or corporation m w te t e c er 's o cc is, a petition stating 
the nature of the paper or record, the contents of which he desires to
prove, and what persons may be affe~ted by such proof. Whereupon the 
commissioner shall appoint a time and place for proceeding on the said
petition, whereof reasonable notice shall be given. If any person who
may be affected by the proof be an infant, the eommissioner shall appoint
a pardian ad litem to attend to the case on his behalf. 
JMThe commissioner shall, at the instance of any person interested,
take in writing evidence of witnesaes. He may adjourn from time to tinl~,
and shall keep a journal of his proceedings, and return the sam~ with the
evidence taken by, or filed withhim, to the clerk's office in which the book
or paper was that is mentioned in the petition, there to remain as evidence
of rights when better cannot be had. 
Records and office books out of this state.
15. The records and judicial proceedings of any court of the United 
States, or of any state, attested by the clerk thereof, with the seal of the 
court annexed, if there be a seal, and certified by the judge, chief justi~
or presiding magistrate of such court, to be attested in due form, shall
have such faith and credit given to them in every court within this state.
ns they have in the courts of the state, territory or district whence the
aaid records come. 
16. All records and exemplifications of offico books kept in any public
office of the United States, or of a state, not appertaining to a court, shall
be evidence in any court or office in this state, if attested by the keeper
of the said records or books, and the seal of his office annexed, if there
be a sea], and certified hy the presiding justice of the county or distrio&
in which such office is, or of the governor, the secretary of state, the
chancellor, or the keeper of the great seal of the state, to be attested in
due form, and by the proper officer; such certificate, if given by the presiding justice of a. court, shall be authenticated by the clerk or prothonotary of the said court, who shall certify under his hand aftd the seal of
his office, that the said presiding justice is duly commissioned nnd qualified; or if said certificntc be given by the governor, the secretary of state,
the chancellor or keeper of the great seal, it shall be under the great seal
of the state in which the said certificate is made. 
Foreign deeds, powers of attorney, policies of insurance, ~-c.
17. Every deed or power of attorney executed out of this state, the 
acknowledgment or proof of which is certified so that it might be admitted to record under chapter one hundred and twenty-one, nnd every policy
of insurance, charter party, copy from a record in any foreign court, or
from a register of births and marriages in nuy place out of the United
States, if it be attested by a notary public, under his seal of office, that
such policy, charter party, record or register was made, entered, or kept
iu due form according to the law of the place in which it was made, entered or kept, and that such copy is true, and the official character of
such notary he certified to by any court of record, or the mayor, or other
chief magistrate of nny county, city, town or borough, or under the great
seal of the state, kingdom, province, island or colony, in which such notary may reside, shall he evidence in any court in this state. 
C()mpclcnc.v of witnesses.
18. No p<'rRon assessed, or liable to he assessed with levies for any 
county or corporation, shall he disabled from giving evidence by reason
ouly of such nssessmeut or liability. 
19. No such person, nnd no officer of a county or corporation, 1-haTI be
incompetent to give evidence in any case by reason only of his being a
party to such case, or of his being liable t.o costs in respect thereof, when
he is only a nominal party thereto, and liable to contribute to such costs
only in common with ot.hcr pcrsOJlf( assessed with the levies of such county
or corporation. 'No trustee, executor, or other fiduciary, shall he incompetent as a witness in any case by reason only of his being a party thereto,
or of his being liable to costs in respect thereof': hut. if liable to costs, he
shall not be competent, unless some person undertake to pay the same. 
20. A negro or indian shall he a competent witness in a case of the
commonwealth for or against a ncgro or indian, or in a civil ease to 
which only ncgroes or indians arc parties, but not in any other case. 
How witnesses are compelled to testify.
21. A summons may be issued, directed as prescribed in the second sec- 
tion of chapter one hundred and seventy, commanding the officer to summon any person to attend on the day and at the place that such attendance 
is desired, to give evidence before a court, grand jury, arbitrators, umpire,
justice, coroner, surveyor, notary public, or any commissioner appointed
by a court. The summons may be issued, if the attendance be desired
at a court, by the clerk thereof; if before a grand jury, by the attorney 
for the commonwealth, or the clerk of the court, at the instance of the 
attorney for the commonwealth; and in other cases, by any person before
whom, or a clerk of the court of a county or corporation in which the attendance is desired; or if it be desired before a justice of the peace, by
1uch or any other justice, It shall express on whose behalf, and in what 
ease or about what matter, the wimees is to attend. This section shall
be deemed to authorize a. summons to compel attendance before commissioners or other persons appointed by authority of another state, but only 
in case they be citizens of this state, and the summons requires the attendance of a witness at a place not out of his county. 
22. When it appears by ~ffidavit that a writing or document in the
. f h . . 
possession o a person not a party tot e matter m controversy, is material, and proper to be produced before a court, or any person appointed
by it or acting under its process or authority, such court, or a judge 
thereof in vacation, may order the clerk of said court to issue a subpoena 
dnees tecum to compel such production at a time and place to be specified in the order. 
-;-Q3. If any person, after being served with such summons, fnil to at- 
tend to give evidence, or to produce such writing or document, according
to the summons, the court whose clerk issued the summons, or if it wns
not issued by a clerk, a court of the county or corporation in which the 
attendance is desired, on a special report thereof by the person or persons
before whom there was the failure to attend, on proof that there was paid 
hi (If d) bl b fi h d
to rm 1 it was require , a reasona e time e ore e was require to 
attend, the allowance for one day's attendance, and his mileage and tolls,
shall, after service of a notice to, or role upon, him to show cause against
it (if no sufficient cause be shown against it), fine him not exceeding
twenty dollars, to the use of the party for whom he was summoned, and
may proceed by attachment to compel him to attend and give his evidence, at such time and place as it may deem fit. Tho witness shall,
moreover, be liable to any party grieved, for damages. 
24. If a person, after being served with such summons, shall attend,
and yet refuse to be sworn, or to give evidence, or to produce any writing
or document required, he may, by order of the court whose clerk issued
said summons, or of the person before whom he was summoned to attend,
be committed to jail, there to remain until he shall, in custody of the 
. 1 . h 'd od h . . d
Jal or, give sue evi ence or pr nee sue wntmg or ocument. 
25
A b ti h 
t.n ' to b d _,1 
. ny person e ore w om a wi.ess 1s e examine , may uu- 
minister an oath to such witness. 
Interpreters.
26. Interpreters may be sworn truly to interpret, when necessary. 
Of affidavits and depositions.
27. In any case in which a.n oath might be administered by, or an 
affidavit made before a justice, the same may be done by or before a
notary public, or a eommiasioner appointed by the governor, or by a 
court, or the clerk of any court ; or in case of a survey directed. by a
oourt in a cause therein pending, by or before the surveyor directed to
execute said order of survey. An affidavit may also be made before any 
officer of another state or country authorized by its laws to administer an
oath, and shall be deemed duly authenticated if it be subscribed by such
officer, and there be annexed to it a certificate of the clerk or other officer
of a oourt of record of such state or country, under an official seal, verif};ng the genuineness of the signature of the first mentioned officer, and
his authority to administer an oath. 
28. In any suit an affidavit that a witness or party resides out of this
state, or is out of it, shall be prims fsoie evidence of the fact, although
such affidavit be made by a. party, and without previous notice. ,vhere
any thing is required by any statute to be published in a newspaper, the
certificate of the editor or affidavit of any other person shall be admitted
as evidence of what is stated therein as to the publication. 
29. In any pending case the deposition. of a witness, whether a party 
to the suit or not, may, without any commission, be taken in this state
by a justice or notary public, or by a. commissioner in chancery ; and if 
certified under his hand, may be received without proof of the signature
to such certificate. ,vhen a deposition appears to be of a party, all
exceptions may be made to the reading of it which could have been made 
if it were taken under a special commission ; but the taking of such
deposition shall not deprive the party taking it of a.ny relief he would 
h , b . ] d . h d 
ot erwrse e entit e to against t e eponent.
30. On affidavit that a witness resides out of this state, or is out of it, 
in the service thereof, 'or of the United States, a commission to take his
deposition may be issued by the clerk of the court wherein the case is 
pending, directed, if the deposition is to be taken out, of this state but
within the United States, to any commissioner appointed by the governor 
of this state. or to any justice or notary public of the state wherein the
witness may be, and directed, if the deposition is to be taken in a foreign
country, to such commissioner or commissioners as may be agreed upon 
by the parties or appointed by the court, or if there be none such, to any
American minister plenipotentiary, charge d'affaires, consul general, 
vice-consul, or commercial agent appointed by the government of the
United States, or to the mayor or other chief magistrate of any city,
town or corporation in such country, or any notary public therein. Any
person or persons to whom a commission is so directed, may administer
an oath to the witness, and take and certify the deposition with his official
seal annexed; and if he have none, then the genuineness of his signature
shall be authenticated by some officer of the same state or country, under
his official seal, unless the deposition is taken by a justice out of this 
state but in the United States ; in which case his certificate shall be received without any seal annexed, or other authentication of his signature. 
31. Reasonable notice shall be given to the adverse party of tho time 
and place of taking every deposition; and in a suit in equity a deposition
b
ad 
if ed b ti b h . f h h h fte 
may e re , 1 return e ore t e earmg o t e cause, or t oug a
an interlocutory decree, if it be as to & matter not thereby acljudged, and
be returned before a final decree.s 
32. A deposition in a. case at law, taken on such notice, under the
hr 
di ' b d ' h if h ff d 
t ee prece mg sections, may e rea m sue case, 1 , w en 1t is o ere
the witness be dead, or out of this state, or one of its judges, or a superinten- 
dent of a lunatic asylum, distant more than thirty miles from the place oft
trial, or in any public office or service the duties of which prevent his at-~ 
tending the court, or be unable to attend it from sickness or other infirmity,~~~~-~
or be more than a hundred miles from the place of trial. Bot where the 
only ground of reading a deposition is, that the witness is more than a hundred miles from the place of trial, on motion to the court, before the commencement of the trial, it may, for good cause shown, require such witness to attend in person. 
33. When a deposition bas been filed, if not read on the trial by the
party taking it, it may be rend by the other party. 
34. In any case wherein there has been a judgment, decree or order,
from or to which an appeal, writ of error or supersedeas has been, or 
might be allowed, a deposition may be taken for any -party to suoh case
or for or against his or her husband, personal representative, heirs or devisoes, in like manner, and by such persons, as is before prescribed for
pending cases ; and it may be read in any future trial that may be directed, if the same could properly be read had there been no such judgment, decree or order. 
How teatimony may be perpetuated.
35. A person desirous of perpetuating the testimony of witnesses 88 to 
n matter in respect to which there is no suit, may file with a commissioner
in chancery of a court wherein, if there were a bill to perpetuate the testimony, such bill might be filed, a petition stating such matter, and what
persons may he affected by the testimony. Whereupon the commissioner
shall appoint for proceeding on the petition a time and place, whereof
reasonable notice shall be given to the persons who may be so affected.
If any of them be an infant or insane person, the commissioner shall appoint a guardian ad litem to attend on his behalf. At such time and
place the commissioner shall take in writing the evidence of any witnesses
adduced in respect to the said matter by the petitioner, or by the person
so affected. He may ncljourn from time to time, and shall return a report of bis proceedings, with the testimony taken by him, to the clerk's
office of the court by which he was appointed, and such testimony shall
have the same effect as if it had been taken on a bill to perpetuate testimony. Such court mny mnke such order as to the costs as may seem to 
it right. 
Allowance to witnesses f o-r attendance.
36. A person attending 88 a witness under a summons, shall have fifty 
cents for eaoh day's attendance, and four cents per mile for each mile beyond ten miles necessarily traveled to the plooo of attendance, and the!~~
same for returning, besides the tolls at the bridges andferries which he
ik h O hi th f h 
crosses, or turnpi e gates e may pass. n 1s oa on entry o t e anrn
he is entitled to, and for what, and by what party it is to be paid, shall be 
made, when the attendance is before either house, or a committee of the
general assembly, by the clerk of such house or committee, and in other
cases by the clerk of the court in which the case is, or the person beforewhom the witness attended. A witness summoned to attend in several
cases may have the entry made against either of the parties by whom be
is summoned ; but no witness shall be allowed for his attendance in more
than one case at the same time. 
37. The sum to which a witness is entitled shall be paid out of the
treasury in any case of attendance before either house or a committee of 
the general assembly, and in any other case in which the attendance is
for the commonwealth, except where it is otherwise specially provided.
In all other cases it shall be paid by the party for whom the summons
issued. The payment shall be on a certificate of the person required by
the preceding section to make the entry. The certificate shall exprest1
by letters and not by figures, the separate amounts to which the witnese
is entitled for his attendance, traveling and tolls and ferriages which he
may have to pay, and the aggregate thereof. No clerk or other person
authorized to make such entry, or give such certificate, shall become interested by purchase in any claim payable out of the public treasury,
which by law he is authorized to certify. And it shall be the dutyof such
clerk, immediately after the expiration of sixty days from the adjournment
of any court, to make out a list of all entries made, on behalf of witnesses
attending for the commonwealth, and certify such list to the auditor of
public accounts. Any dispute (before or after issuing the certificate) be-tween the witness and the party against whom his claim is made, 1111 to its
justice or amount, may, when the ease is in a court or before ajusticc, be
determined by such court or justice. 
38. The court or justice may restrict the taxation in the costs for wit- 
b d d . 11,.T ti . I II
nesses, to so many as may e eeme just, ..1., o entry or a witness s ,a 
be made against a party recovering costs, after execution has issued for
such party; and in no case shall there be an entry of a witness for attendance at a term, after sixty days from the end of such term. 
Compelling party to discocer or produce a document.
39. In a case at law, a party may file in the clerk's office, and in a 
ease or matter before a commissioner of a court, any person interested
may file with such commissiouer interrogatories to any adverse party or
claimant. The clerk or commissioner shall issue a summons, directed as
prescribed in the second section of chapter one hundred nod seventy, requiring the officer to summon the proper party to answer said interrogatories, and make return thereof within such time, not exceeding sixty
days, as may be prescribed in the aummons. ,vith the sumrnona, there
shall be a copy of the interrogatories, which shall ho delivered to the per
son served with the sununons, at the time of such service; if the sum
mons be against a plaintifff who is not a resident of this state, tho service
may be on his attorney at law. ,vhcn the court in which the ease is, or
whose commissioner issued the summons, is satisfied that the interrogato- 
ries are relevant, and such as the person to whom they are propounded,
would be bound to answer upon a bill for discovery, and sees also that the
interrogatories have not been unreasonably delayed, it may, if the said
person do not, in a reasonable time, file answers thereto upon oath, or, if
be file answers which are evasive, attach him and compel him to answer
in open court, or to answer more explicitly. It may, also, if it see fit, set
aside a plea of his, and give judgment against him by default, or, if he
be plaintifff, order his suit to be dismissed with coats, or, if he be claiming
a debt before a commissioner, disallow such claim. Answers to such interrogatories may be used as evidence at the trial of the cause, in the same
manner and with the same effect as if obtained upon a bill of discovery. 
40. In any case at law, a party may file in the clerk's office, and in
any case or matter before a commissioner of a court, any person in- 
~rested may file with such commissioner an affidavit, setting forth that
there is, he verily believes, a book of accounts or other writing, in pos- 
session of an adverse party or claimant, containing material evidence for
him, specifying with reasonable certainty such writing, or the part of
such book. The clerk or commissioner shall issue a summons, directed
as under the preceding section, requiring him to summon the proper party
to produce such writing, or an exact copy of such part of the said book,
and make return thereof as under that section. ,vith the summons,
there shall be a copy of the affidavit, which shall be delivered to the person served with the summons at the time of such servlce ; if the summons
be against a plaintifff who ie not a resident of this state, the service may
be on his attorney at law. ,vhen the court in which the case is, or whose
commissioner issued the summons, is satisfied that tho person filing such
affidavit has no means of proving the contents of such writing, or of
such part of the book, but by the person summoned producing what is
required by the summons, and thatthe same is relevant and material,
and sees also that the call therefore has not been unreasonably delayed, it
may, unlesa the person summoned shall, in a reasonable time, either produce what is so required, or answer in writing, upon oath, that he has not
under his control such book or writing, or any of the like import, attach
him and compel him to do the one or the other. It may, also, if it see
fit, set aside a plea of such person, and give judgment against him by
default, or, if he be plaintifff, order his suit to be dismissed, with costs, or,
if he be claiming a debt before a commissioner, disallow such claim. 
41. The two preceding sections shall not preclude a person who doe~
net file such interrogatories or affidavit, from exhibiting his bill in 
chancery for a discovery, as he might have done if th1 said sections had
not been enacted. But a person filing such interrogatories or affidavit,
shall not afterwards exhibit a bill in equity against the same party for the
discovery or production of the same matters. 
Effect of evidence of party's absence for seven years.
42. If any person who shall have resided in this state go from, and do 
not return to, the state for seven years successively, he shall be presumed
to be dead in any case wherein his death shall come in question, unless 
proof be made that he was alive within that time.
43. If the person so presumed to be dead be found to have been living, 
any person injured by snob presumption shall be restored to the right.a of 
which he shall have been deprived by reason of such presumption.
Excluding eoidenee for want of particulars of claim or defense. 
4t. In any action or motion, the court may order a statement to be
filed of the particulars of the claim, or of the ground of defense ; and if
a party fail to comply with such order, may, when the case is tried or
heard, exclude evidence of any matter not described in the notice, declaration or other pleading of such party so plainly as to give the adverse
party notice of its character. 
Evidence in 1nitigation of damages,
45. In any action for defamation, the defendant may justify by alleg
ing and proving that the words spoken or written were true, and ( after
notice in writing of hie intention to do so, given to the plaintifff at the
time of, or for pleading to such action), may give in evidence, in mitigation of damages, that he made or offered an apology to the plaintifff for
such defamation before the commencement of the action, or as soon afterwards as he had an opportunity of doing so, in case the action shall
have been commenced before there was an opportunity of making or
offering such apology. 
CHAPTER CLXXVII. 
OF THE COURT DOCKET; ESQUIRY OF DAMAGES; TRIAL BY JURY; AND
JUDGMENTS AND DECREl:S OF THE COURT FOR MONEY, 
See.
Sr.c, 
1.
Docket In clrmtlt and county or corporaia
Verdict In detlnue.
tlon court; bow mudc out and called;
14.
Vlrdh:t to fl.x period at which Interest beand cn~l'8 rll~poeed of. gln11; If no porlod fl:red, Interest to be 
2.
In clrcult court, 11eparato docket of ehanfrom date of verdict.
cery ra11,11; which hi to be called and
15.
Power to grout new trial; how often. 
Cll.llell <lhpoi,ed of. 16.
On a bond for payment of money, how
3.
Remedy If court refuse to hear " case.
Judgment 111 entered. 
...
Power In ehnneery case to direct an 111- li.
In action for penalty, how
and when
sue : where to be tried. breaches a11~i!ft1ld; whnt Jury are to 
5.
Power of court In other cn11()11 to havo do and how judgmrnt lK entered ; re- 
Issue tried or damagr,11 inquired Into by
medy by 11cln>foci11.11 for future breaches,
Jury; province of court at the trial 18. Wht>rl' no jury, court may ~-rf\"e jndg- 
6.
When case lu which there 111 to be enqulry ment for Interest ; judgment to be for
of dnmagea may be disposed of; power
such Interest till payment, 
of court to ascertain and give Judgment
19. ,v1ll'l1 In joint action plaintifff', though
for dumnges and Interest,
barred as to 1101ue defeudants, way have 
7.
Remedy when at the trial vartanee apjudgment against others,
pears between evidence and allegations
20. Judgment or decree nguinst personal reor recital.
prcaoutattve or committee ; when to 
8. Aa to bill of exceptions.
be pald out of estate In hl11 hands as
9. Argument before the jury.
tlduclnry ; when costs to be paid out of 
10. Non-1mit not llfter jury retire.
hl11 own estate,
11.
What pnpers jttrf may earr'y out. 2L.
,vh .. n court
mny allow executlons on
12.
Where several counts, one of which iB
judgments or decrees, during the term 
fu.ulty.
ut which rendered. 
Of tke court docket; and the order in which cases arc heard.
1. Before every term of- a circuit court, and every quarterly" term of 
0, county or corporation court, the clerk shall make out a docket of the
following cases pending, to wit : First, cases of the commonwealth, and 
secondly, motions and actions in tho order in which the notices of the
motions were filed, or in which the proceedings at rules in the actions 
wore terminated, docketing together as new cases, those not on the
docket at the previous term. He shall, under the control of the court,
set the cases to certain days ; and the docket shall be called, and the
oases on it tried or disposed of for the term in that order, except that the
court may, for good cause, take up any out of tum. 
2. Before every term of u circuit court the clerk shall make out a
separate docket of chancery oases in which there are motions, and of
other chancery cases which have been set for hearing as to any party, or
which the court is to hear upon a. plea., demurrer, or exceptions to an
answer; and during such term every cause on said docket shall be called 
and disposed of.
3. Any party asking the court to hear a case, may, if the court refuse 
to hear it, have his application spread upon the record, with a statement
of tho facts in relation thereto." 
Power of court to hane a trial by jury, or inquiry of damages.
4. Any court wherein a chancery case is pending, may direct an issue 
b
d h . f 
to e trie m sue court, or in any circuit, county or corporation court.
Bot a circuit court shall not be compelled to try an issue ordered by a
county or corporation court. 
5. A circuit, county or corporation court may, in any other case before
it, have an issue tried, or an inquiry of damages made by a jury, and 
determine all questions concerning the legality of evidence and other
matters of law which may arise. 
6. At the next term after an order at the rules for an inquiry of damages, tho same may be executed and final judgment be rendered there- 
upon, unless good cause be shown for a continuance. The court, if neither
party require a jury, shall ascertain the damages and on what sum and 
from what time interest shall be computed, and give judgment for such
damages and interest. 
.A..mendmtnts of pleadings at the trial.
7, If at the trial of any action, there appears to be a variance between 
h id d ll l b if id b
t e evi ence an a egations or recita s, t e court, 1 1t cone, er t e same 
not material to the merits of the ease, and that the opposite party cannot
have been prejudiced thereby, may allow the pleadings to be amended, 
on such terms as to the payment of costs or postponement of the tnal, or
both as it may deem reasonable. Or, instead of the pleadings being
amended, the court may direct the jury to find the facts, and after such 
finding, if it consider the variance such as could not have prejudiced the
opposite party, shall give judgment according to the right of the case. 
Bill of exccptions ; argument of counsel; non-suit. 
s. In the trial of a case at law, in which an appeal, writ of error or
aupersedeas lice to a higher court, a party may except to any opinion of
the court, and tender a bill of exceptions, which (if the truth of the case
be fairly stated therein) the judge or justices, or the greater part of those
present, shall sign ; and it shall be a part of the record of the case. 
9. Not more than two counsel shall argue in a civil case, on the same
side, unless by leave of the court. 
t 10. A party shall not be allowed to suffer a non-suit, unless he do so
before the jury retire from the bar. 
Retirement of jury; verdict; and new trial .. 
11. Papers read in evidence, though not under seal, may be carried
from the bar by the jury. 
12. When there are several counts, one of which is faulty, the defendant may ask the court to instruct tho jury to disregard it; yet if entire
damages be given, tho verdict shall be good. 
t}3. In detinue, if on an issue concerning several things, in one count,
no verdict ho found for part of them, it shall not be error, but the plaintiff shall be barred of his title to the things omitted; and if the verdict
omit price or value, the court may at any time have a.jury impanneled t.o
ascertain the same. 
14. The jury, in any action founded on contract, may allow interest
on the principal due, or any part thereof, and fix the period at which 
such interest shall commence. And in any action for a cause arising
ft h h ti h . 11 . 
herea er, w et er rom contract or from tort, t e Jory may a ow interest
h fi d b 1 d' 1 f d fi } iod 
on t e sum oun y t 10 ver iet, or any part t iereo , an x t re per1
at which the said interest shall commence. If a verdict be rendered
hereafter which does not allow interest, the sum thereby found shall bear
interest from its date, whether the cause of action arose heretofore, or
shall arise hereafter, and judgment shall be entered accordingly. 
. 
15. In any civil case, the court'before which a trial by jury is had,
may grant a new trial, unless tho trial be of an issue in a chancery case,
or if it be otherwise specially provided. A new trial may be granted, as
well where the damages are too small as where they are cxcesaive. Not
more than two new trials shall be granted to the same party in tho same 
cause. 
Of judgments and decrees for money. 
t 16. When there is a recovery on a bond, conditioned for the payment
of money, the judgment shall be for the penalty of the bond, to be discharged by the payment of the principal, and the interest due thereon.
17. In an action on an annuity bond, or a bond for money payable by
installments, where there arc further payments of the annuity or further 
installments to become duo after the commencement of the action, or in
h e. I f h r f di . 
sny ot er action ror a pens ty or t e non-perrormance o nny con ition,
covenant, or agreement, the plaintifff may assign as many breaches as he 
thinks fit. If there be judgment for the plaintifff on a demurrer, or by 
oonfession, or by default or nil dicit, he may so assign after such judgment. The jury impanneled in any such action, shall ascertain the 
damages sustained, or the sum due, by reason of the breaches assigned
and judgment shall be entered for the penalty, to be discharged by the
payment of what is so ascertained, and such further sums as may be
afterwards assessed, or be found due upon a scire facias, assigning a further breach. Such scire faclas may be sued out from time to time, by
any person injurod, against the defendant, or his personal representative;
and for what may be assessed or found due upon the new breach or
breaches assigned, execution may be awarded. 
18. In any snit in equity, or in an action founded on contract, where
no jury is impanneled, judgment or decree may be rendered for interest
h
. . l d il h 1 b id d h 
on t e prmeipa sum recovere , unti sue pnnc1pa e pru ; an w ere
there is a jury which allows interest, the judgment shall in like manner~ 
be for such interest until payment.t
19. In an action. founded on contract, against two or more defen
dants, although the plaintifff may be barred as to one or more of them,
yet he may have judgment against any other or others of the defendants,
against whom he would have been entitled to recover if he had sued them
only. 
20. A judgment or decree against any person, as the personal ropresentative of a decedent, or committee of a convict or an insane person, 
for a debt due from such decedent, convict or insane person, may, without
taking an account of the transactions of such representative or committee, 
be entered to be paid out of the personal estate of such decedent, convict
or insane person, in, or which shall come to, the hands of the representa- 
CHAPTER CLXXVIII. 
OF DECREES OF SALE ; ORDERS FOR EXECUTING DEEDS OR APPOP..T~G 
TRUSTEES; AND THE RESERVATION FOR INFANTS. 
k 1~ 
1. Decree or order for sale ; bow It may be
made Of thcommlssloner ; when he I 
must gi,o bond. 5.
2. "'hen slll'rl!T or sergeant must execute 
decreor order for sale : llubiUty of 6.
him and hl11 snreues, \
3. Cornmlsslon for Helling and collecting; 7.
limited all to amount ; how appor- 1 
tlonrd, where ono srlld and another
collects, 8. 
4. When commissioner may be appointed I 
, 
,, 
tive or committee to be administered. When the court enters of record,
that if he had prudently discharged bis duty, the suit or motion would not
have been brought 9r made, the judgment or decree, so far as it is for
costs, shall be entered, to be paid out of his own estate. 
21. Any court, after the fifteenth day of its term, may make a genernl
order allowing executions to issue on judgments and decrees after ten
days from their date, although the term at which they are rendered be
not ended. For special cause it may, in any particular case, except the
Bame from such order, or allow an execution thereon at an earlier period. 
to exeente deed or writing; effect of
such exocntlon. 
Dow trustee mKy be appointed In plMe
of one who hllll died. 
WbE"n trn11t le to be executed by penonal
representarlve of trustee. 
Right of Infant to show cause agrlin~t
decree or order, within aix mouthe 
after attaining twenty-one.
Elft-ct of reversul of docree or order of 
sale, upon a purchaser under It. 
OJ decree, for selling property and collecting proceeds.
I. A court, in a suit properly therein, may make a decree or order 
for the sale of property in any part of the state, and may direct the sale 
to be for cash, or on such credit and terms 88 it may deem best; and it
may appoint a special commissioner to make such sale. No special commissioner appointed by a court, shall receive money under o. decree or
order, until he gives bond before the said court or its clerk. 
2. ,vhere no special commissioner is appointed for the purpose, a deeree or order of any court for the sale of property, shall be executed by
the sheriff or sergeant who attends such court, unlessthe place of Bale
be out of his county or corporation, in which case the sale shall be by the
sheriff of the county wherein the place of sale is, or, if the place be in a
corporation, by the sergeant thereof, or the sheriff of the county, inclu
ding such corporation, as the court may direct. Any sheriff, sergeant, or
other officer, receiving money under any order or decree, shall pay the
same 88 the court may order; and if he fail so to do, be and the sureties
in his official bond, shall be liable therefore. 
3. For the services of commissioners or officers under any decree or
order for a sale, including the collection and paying over the proceeds,
there shall not be allowed any greater commission than five per centum on
the first three hundred dollars received by them, and two per centum on
all above i1mt. And if a sale be made by one commissioner or officer,
and the proceeds be collected by another, the court under whose decroc
or order they acted, shall apportion the commission between them as may
be just. 
Order appointing commissioner to execute deed or substinding trustee
in place of one whr, has died ; when trust may be executed by per
sonal representative.
4. A court of equity, in a suit in which it is cproper to decree or order 
the execution of any deed or writing, may appoint a commissioner to execute the same; andthe execution thereof sha,t be as valid to pnss, re- 
lease or extinguish the right, title and interest of the party on whose behalf it is executed, as if such party had been at the time capable in law
of executing the same, and had executed it. 
:=s. In a suit in equity in which . it appears that a trustee has died,
although the heirs of such trustee be not parties to the suit, yet if his; 
personal representative and the other persons interested be parties, the
court may appoiA another trustee in the place of him who has died, to 
act either alone or in conjunction with any surviving trnstee, as the case
may require; and in any case when a trustee, ot when there is more
than one, all the trustees in any deed of trust shall have died or removed
beyond the limits of the state, or shall decline to accept the trust, any
person interested in the execution of the deed may apply by motion' to
the circuit, county or corporation court of any county or corporation in
which such deed is recorded, who mny appoint a trustee or trustees in
tho place of the trustee or trustees named therein ; and the trustee or
trustees so appointed and accepting the same shall be substituted to all
the rights, powers, duties and responsibilities of the trustee named in
said deed : provided, that the grantee in said deed, bis heirs or personal
representatives, the creditor, surety or other persons intended to be secured thereby, or their personal representatives, shall have ten days' notice of such motion, the mode of serving which shall be ns prescribed in
the first and second sections of chapter one hundred and seventy-seven. 
6. The personal representative of a sole or surviving trustee, shall ex-11
ecute the trust, or so much thereof as remained unexecuted at the death 
of such trustee (whether the trnst subject be real or personal estate), unless the instrument creating the trust otherwise direct, or some other trustee be appointed for the purpose, by a court of chancery having jurisdic- 
tion of the case.
Right of infants to show cause against decree. Effect of reversal of 
decree upon purchaser under it. 
7. It shall not be necessary to insert in any decree or order a provision
allowing an infant to show cause against it within a certain time after he 
. h f B . ' hi h b ti
attains t e age o twenty-one years. nt m any case m w c , ut or 
th
. . J ld h b h . f . hi 
rs section, sue 1 prov1s1on wou ave een proper, t em ant may, wit n 
Sil months after attaining the age of twenty-one years, show such cause
in like manner as if the decree or order contained such provision. This 
right of an infant shall not be affected by the fourth section.
8. If a sale of property be made under a decree or order of o. court, 
after six months from the date thereof, and such sale be confirmed, though
such decree or order be afterwards reversed or set aside, the title of the~ 
purchaser o.t such sale shall not be affected thereby; but there may be 
, . 
restitution of the proceeds of sale to those entitled. 
OF INJU~CTIO~S ; BILL OP REVIEW ; AND APPOINTME~T OF RF.CEIVERS. 
Ste.
Sec. 
1. Injunction to n-RtraJn sale of property
exempt in c1111e of husband or parent :
or to protect plnlntUI' in 11ult for speclfic property. 
2. Ju<l~mt'nt or decree not neeessnry, before creditor brlnini suit to avoid tran11- 
fer of or charge upon hls debtor'e e11talc; what relief he mny have iu such
snlt. 
3. Equity of Injunction blll to 1><' shown by
affidavit or otherwlse ; when notice IR 
necessary,
4. In what court Injunction case proceeds. 
5. Bill of nvlew; within what Uruc allowed; when injunction may be
awarded on it. 
6. Genernl juriadictlon to award lnjuncttons, In judges of circuit courts. 
7. '\\'hen circuit conrt or Judge refuses,
Judge of court of uppcala may award 
Injunction.
8. 'Where Injunction 11 to reRtrain removal 
of property out of state, bow far
power extonds. 
9. To what clerk judge's order fur lnjnnctlon Is directed, 
10. Injunction bond; when, how and before 
When court to interfere ; in what court injuction ease proceeds.
I. An injunction may be awarded to enjoin the sale of property exempt 
in the case of a husband or parent, under chapters forty-nine and one
hundred and sixteen ; or to protect any plaintifff in a suit for specific pro
perty ponding either at law or in equity, against injury from the sale, removal or concealment of such property. 
2. A creditor, before obtaining a judgment or decree for his claim,
may institute any suit to avoid a gift, conveyance, assignment or transfer
of, or charge upon, the estate of his debtor, which he might institute after
obtaining Emch judgment or decree ; and he may in such suit have all the
relief in respect to said estate which he would be entitled to after obtaining a judgment or decree for the claim which he may be entitled to re- 
cover.
3. No injnnction shall be awarded in vacation nor in conrt in a ease 
not ready for hearing, unless the court or judge be satisfied by affidavit
or otherwise of the plaintifff's equity; and any court or juc.lgc ruay require
that reasonable notice shall be given to the adverse party, or his attorney 
at law or in fact, of the time and place of moving for it before the injunction is awarded, if in the opinion of the court or judge it be proper
that such notice should he given. 
4. Jurisdiction of a hill for an iujunction to any judgment, net or procecding, shall be in a circuit, county or corporation court of a county or 
corporation in which the judgment is rendered, or the net or proceeding
is to be done or is doing or apprehended, except that a county or corporation court shall not award an injunction to a judgment or proceeding of 
any other court. 
CHAPTER CLXXIX. 
whom given. Endorsement aa to it on
snbpcena, , 
11. If there be a forthcoming bond In the 
CM<', what red~1111 surety therela ba&. 
12. Order dlttBOlvlng Injunction.
13. Damages on dlssolutton, 
H. Dismlsslon of Injunction bill.
15. Clerk!, to fumh1b to courts statements o~ 
monies to credit of ruits.
16. Appointment of reeelvers : their dutie>L
17. Their powers over 11tocks and securitieL 
18. Collection and Investment of fund11..
19. 'l'heir aceounts and reports to court. 
:: l Liability. for fnnd11; ,heir bonds and com
22 
5 pensanon, 
23. Penaltles for failure In dnty.
24. '\\hen interest Ii! payable; when corn
pounded,
25. How receivers' nceounts nre settled and 
their bonds examined by eommlssioner11. 
26. ,vhen required to give new bonds, 
2i. Cl<>rkllto keep receivers' booke and indes
them. 
28. Fees of cleru and commill8ionerL 
Of bill of review.
5. A court or judge allowing a bill of review, may award an InJUDC
tion to the decree to be reviewed. But no bill of review shall be allowed 
to a final decree, unless it be exhibited within three years next ofter such
d th 
. f . d .
ecree ; except at an m ant, mame woman or msane person may ex- 
hibit the same within three years after the removal of his or her' disability. 
General jurisdiction of judges to award injunction,.
~ Every judge of a circuit court shall have o. general jurisdiction in 
awarding injunctiorn~, whether the judgment or proceeding enjoined be
of a superior or inferior court, in or out of his circuit, or the party, 
. h di h . . . b k d id . f th
agmnst w ose procee mg t c mJunct1on c as e , resi e in or out o e 
same.
-.:::. 7. When a circuit court, or a judge thereof, shall refuse to award an 
injunction, a copy of the proceedings in court, and the original papers
presented to the judge in vacation, with his order of refusal, may be pre- 
, 
sented to a judge of the court of appeals, who may thereupon award the
injunction. 
Power to restraiw removal of property out of state,
8. A court or judge awarding an injunction to restrain the removal of 
property out of the state, mny requfre bond to be given before such officer, and in such penalty as it may direct, conditioned to have the property forthcoming to abide the future order or decree of the court, and
unless such bond be given, mny order the officer serving its procesa to 
take possession of the property, and keep it until the bond be given, or
until the further order of the court. 
To what clerk judge's order for injunction is directed.
9. Every order (awarding an injunction) made under the sixth or 
seventh section, shall be directed to the clerk of such circuit court as baa
jurisdiction under the fourth section, and the proceedings thereupon shall 
be as if the order bud been made by such court, or the judge thereof.
Injunction bond. 
IO. An injunction ( except in the case of any personal representative
or other person from whom, in the opinion of the court or judge awarding 
the same, it may be improper to require bond) shall not take effect until
bond be given in such penalty us the court or judge awarding it may di- 
rect, with condition to pay the judgment or decree (proceedings on which
are enjoined), and all such costs aa may be awarded against the party ob-~
taining the injunction, and all such damages as shall be incurred in case 
the injunction be dissolved, and with a further condition, if a forthcoming
bond has been given under said judgment or decree, to indemnify and 
save harmless the sureties in said forthcoming bond, and their representatives, agaiust all loss or damage in consequence of said suretyship; or,
if the injunction be not to proceedings on a judgment or decree, with
such condition as the said court or judge me.y prescribe. The bond shall 
be given before the clerk of the court in which such judgment or decree
was, and in other cases before the clerk of the court in which the suit is,
wherein the injunction is awarded. If the bond be tiot given before t'he
summons is issued, the clerk shall endorse thereon that the injunction is
not to take effect until the bond is given ; and the clerk who afterwarda
takes the bond, shall endorse that it is given. 
11. Any surety in such forthcoming bond, or his personal representative, may move for and obtain an order for other or additional l!eourity.
in like manner 88 o. defendant in the injunction may. 
Order of dissolution ; damages thereon.
X)2. The judge of a circuit court in which a case is pending, wher'eiu 
an injunction is awarded, may, in vacation, dissolve such injunction, after
reasonable notice to the adverse party. His order for the dissolution sha.ll
be directed to the clerk of said court, who shall record the same in ~
order book. 
13. Where an injunction to stay proceedings on a judgment or decree
for money, is dissolved wholly or in part, there shall he paid to the pnrty 
having such judgment or decree, damages at the rate of ten per centmn
per annum from the time the injunction took effect until the dissolution. 
on such sum as appears to be due, including the costs; but the coo rt
wherein the injunction is, may direct that no such damages be paid, or
such portion thereof as it may deem just. The clerk of any circuit court
which, or the judge of which, makes an order dissolving an injunction to 
a judgment, shall certify to the clerk of the court wherein the judgment
was, the order of dissolution, and also the time the injunction took effect, 
if that appear in his office. In a case wherein a forthcoming bond waa
forfeited, and no execution thereon, before the injunction took effect, a
court awarding such execution shall include in its judgment or decree
damages as aforesaid ; in other cases they shall be included in the esecution on the judgment or decree to which the injunction wns awarded.
The damages shall be in satisfaction of so much of the interest for tho
time they arc given as may not exceed said damages, 
Dismission nf injunction bill.
14. Where an injunction is wholly dissolved, the bill shall stand dis
missed of course with costs, unless sufficient cause be shown against such 
dismiseion, when the case is in n circuit court, at the next term, and when
it is in an inferior court, at or before the second term after the dissolution, whether monthly or quarterly. The clerks of said courts shall enter
such diarnission on the last day of said terms. 
Clerks to furnish statement of monies to credit of suits,
15. It shall be the duty of the clerks of the county, corporation and 
circuit courts to report to their respective courts, at the first term theroof
after the first dny of July next,a statemont, which shall show, in sepa
rate columns, the name of the suit or other proceeding in which any
money has been heretofore pnid into court, or into bank or other place of
deposit, or to any person specially appointed to receive the same under
o.ny judgment, order or decree of such court, nnd which money romaine 
undisbursed, in whole or in part, at the date of such report; the date of
such judgment, order or decree; the date of suoh payment ; the amount
so paid and remaining undisbursed ; the person by whom it wns paid:
the person to whom, or the bank or other depository into which the payment was made ; if such money or any part thereof has been loaned out, 
or remains on deposit, or in the hands of the receiver; and if loaned out,
the date of the order authorizing the loan ; tho date of the loan ; the person to whom it was made, and who then holds it; if security has been
given therefore, the nature of the security; and where secured by bond or
other obligation, the penalty thereof, and the names of the principal obli
gor and his sureties.
16. Each of the said courts may appoint n general receiver of the court, 
who shall hold his office nt its pleasure, and whose duty it shall be, unless
it be otherwise specially ordered, to receive, take charge of, and invest in 
certificates of debt of the state of Virginia, or in such stock or other
security as the court may specially order, and in the manner required by
such order, all monies heretofore paid into court, or into bank or other
place of deposit, and now standing suhject to the order of such court, and
all monies hereafter so paid under any judgment, order or decree of the
court, and also to pay out or dispose of the same as the court may order
or decree; and to this end, the general receiver shall have authority to 
check for, receive and give acquittances for all such monies.
Receiver's powers over stocks and securities. 
17. The certificates of debt of tho state of Virginia, or any stock or
other security in which, under tho special orders of the court, such investments may be made, shall be taken in the name of the general receiver,
and be kept by him, unless otherwise specially ordered ; and he shall
have power to sell, transfer or collect the samo, when ordered by the
court to do so, but not otherwise ; and in case of his death, resignation or
removal, his successor, or any person specially appointed by the court for
thnt purpose, ~hall have like power. 
Collection and investment off unds.
18. The general receiver shall collect the dividends and interest on all 
certificates of debt, stock or other security in which investments have
been or mny be made under the orders or decrees of his court, or the pro
visions of this act, when, and as often as the same may become due and
payable thereon, and shall invest the same in certificates of debt of the
state of Virginia, unless the court has ordered or decreed some other
investment or disposition to be made thereof; in which case he shall
invest or dispose of the same as the court shall have ordered or decreed. 
His account and report to court.
19. He shall keep an accurate and particular account of all monies 
received, invested and paid out by him, showing the respective amounts
to the credit of each ease in the court, and designating in the items the 
judgments, orders or decrees of court under which the respective aums
have been received, invested or paid out; and on the first day of each 
quarterly term of the county court, and on tho first day of each regular 
term of the circuit court. be shall report to bis court a general statement,
showing the balances to the credit of each case in the court in which
money has been received by him, the manner in which it is invested, the
amounts received, invested or pnid out since the next preceding term of
the court, and the whole amount then invested and subject to the future
order of the court ; and he shall, at any time when required by the court 
so to do, furnish a statement of the amount subject to the order of the
court in any case pending therein. 
Liability for funds. 
20. He shall be liable for all monies which may come into his hands
as general receiver; and if at any time he shall fail to invest any sum of
money, as required by the preceding sections, for the space of sixty days
after the same shall be or ought to have been received by him, or shall
fail to pay out any sum of money, when required by the court to pay the
same, for the space of sixty days after it shall come into his bands for
the purpose of such payment, he shall be charged with interest thereon,
from the day when such money was or ought to have been received by
him, until such investment or payment is made, unless, upon good cause
shown to the court, it shall order otherwise. 
Bond.
21. He shall annually give before the court a bond, to be approved by 
it, in such penalty as the court may direct, sufficient at least to cover tho
probable amount which may come into his hands in any one year. 
Compemation. 
22. He shall receive as a compensation for his services such per centum
of the amount received and invested or paid out by him in each cue as
the court may direct, for receiving, investing or paying out the same. 
Penaltiea. 
23. If he shall fail to keep the account, or to make out and return the
statements required by the nineteenth section of this chapter,he shall be
sul>ject to a fine of not less than one hundred nor more than one thousand
dollars, to be imposed by the court at its discretion ; and the condition of
his official bond shall be taken to embrace the liability of himself and hia
sureties for any such fine. 
When interest ia payable; when compounded. 
24. The interest on all loans made to individuals under an order of
court, heretofore or hereafter, prior to the first day of January eighteen.
hundred and fifty-three, shall become due and payable on that day, and
annually on the first day of January in each and every year thereafter,
until the principal is paid ; and the interest on all such loans, made after
the first day of January eighteen hundred and fifty-three, shall become
due and payable on the first day of January next after the loan shall be
made, and annually on the first day of January in each and every year
thereafter, until the principal is paid; and unless the interest is paid at
the time it becomes due and payable, componnd interest shall be charged
thereon to the borrower from such time until payment thereof is made. 
Receivers of courts; lost record or paper ; how receivers' accounts are
settled and their bonds examined. 
25. Each county court, at its first quarterly term, and each circuit
court, at its regular term after the first day of January next, and annuall7 
at the same terms in each year thereafter, by an order entered of record,
shall require one of it.a commissionera in chancery, other than the commissioner who may have been appointed general receiver thereof, to state
and settle the aeeounta of all the receivers of such court, both general
and special, and of all persona to whom any money has been loaned
under the order of the court, or who have money subject to the future
order of the court, and which then remains undisbursed. The clerk of
the court shall furnish to such commissioner a copy of the order so made,
with a list appended thereto, exhibiting the names of all such receivers
and persons. The said commissioner shall summon such receivers and
persons, or the personal repreeentatives of such of them as are dead,
before him, and audit, state and settle their accounts, and report the
same to the county court within six months, or to the circuit court at its
next term after such order has been made; and he shall append to the
report a statement, showing in separate columns all the matters required 
to be shown by the clerk in the statement mentioned in the fifteenth sec
tion. of this ckapter.He shall also cause the bonds of the receivers of
the court, and the bonds or other securities given for any money loaned
under the order of the court, to be produced before him, and shall ascertain if the obligors in such bonds, or if such other securities are sufficient,
and report thereon to the court at ~e times before mentioned. 
Wlten required to give new bonds.
26. The court shall examine the reports required by the .fifteenth and 
twenty-fifth sections of this chapter,t when the same are made to it; and
if satisfled or the correctness thereof, shall order them, by endorsements
thereon, to be recorded ; and if it appears from the report of the commiesioner that any bond of a receiver, or any bond or other security
given by any person to whom money has been loaned under its order, i.8
insufficient, the court shall order additional security to be given, or
another bond to be executed before it, in such penalty as may seem right,
and with sufficient sureties. But the execution or such new bond shall 
not discharge the sureties in any prior bond from their liability for acts of 
the principal obligor done previous to the execution of such new bond.
Clerks to keep receixers' books and index them. 
27. Each clerk of the said courts respectively shall procure, at the
expense of bis county, a book, to be called the "receivers' book," wherein
he shall record the said reports, when approved by the court ; and he
shall make an index thereto, showing the style of the suit or other proceeding in which money bas been paid as aforesaid, and the page where
any report respecting the same is recorded ; and the said book shall be
open to the examination of any person interested, or hie counsel, without 
the payment of any fee therefore. 
Fees of clerks and commissioners.
28. For making the report required by the fifteenth. section, and for 
recording the reports required by the twenty-fifth section, said clerks may 
charge, in each ease mentioned in snch report, o. fee of eighteen eents :
to be chargeable to any party in the case seeking to recover the money 
therein and mentioned in the report ; and seid commi.saiooers may
charge, for the reports made under the twenty-fifth section, the same fees
allowed by law to eemmiseionors in chancery for other reports, to be paid 
out of the fond in court, and charged to the respeetive cases therein, in
such proportions as the court shall judge right.
I CHAPTER CLXXX.
1,.. 
or TJIE LOSS 01'' A RECORD OR PAPEU IN A CAt:SE. 
If in any cause, the original papers therein, or any of them, or the
record for or in an appellate court, or any paper filed or connected with
such record, be lost or destroyed, the court wherein tho case is, or in
which it would or ought to be, bot for such loss or destruction, may
docket the same ; and on affidavit of such loss or destruction the ease 
may be proceeded in, henrd and determined, upon an authenticated copy
of what is lost or destroyed, or proof of the contents thereof The court
rnny, in its discretion, require new pleadings to be made up in whole or in
pnrt. A plaintifff, instead of proceeding under this section, mny commence and prosecute a new suit for the same matter. 
PF ERRORS rnst:FFICIEXT IX AN APPELLATE COl"RT. 
"':~ErrorR wfileh might be eorreetcd on writ I S..
of error coram nobls, may be corrected 
on motion after notice, 
CHAPTER CLXXXI. 
2. Judgment on confe1111lon, a r11leR88 of er- 
rors,
:1. t For what a Judgment or decree shal] not 6. 
4. S be reversed.
5. Error in judgmt-ot or deereo way be eor- 
rected In same court, whl'n bv de(ault; 
aurl In other l'UIOll by aame" court or
judgf', \Th<'n thero Is 11oml.'tblng by
whteh to amend; or exeeas may be re
leased,
What npprllntc court 18 to do In a CaM> 
lu which there might be redresa under
preceding sectlon, 
t I. For any clerical error, or error in fact for which a judgment or decree may he reversed or corrected on writ of error coram nobis, the same
mny be reversed or corrected, on motion after reasonable notice, by the
court, or if the judgment or decree be in a circuit court, by the judge
thereof in vacation. 
2. A judgment on confession shall be equal to a release of errors.f
3. No judgment or decree shnll be stayed or reversed for tho ap- 
penrance of either party, being under the age of twenty.one years, by
attorney, if the verdict (where there is one), or the judgment or decree,
be for him and not to his prejudice; or for want of warrant of attorney; 
or tor the want of a similiter, or any mifljoining of issue ; or for any informality in the entry of the jadgment or decree by the clerk, or for the
omiuion of the name of any juror, or beeause it may not appear that the
nrdict was rendered by the number of jurors required by law, or for any
defect, imperfection or omission in the pleadings, which could not be regarded on demurrer, or for any other defect, imperfection or omission,
which might hnve been taken advantage of on a demurrer, or answer,but was not so taken advantage of. 
f4. No decree shall be reversed for want of n. replication to the answer,
where the defendant has taken depositions as if there had been a replicat.ion ; nor shall a decree be reversed at the instance of a party who has
taken depositions, for an informality in the proceedings, when it appears
that there was a full and fair hearing upon the merits, and thnt substant.ial justice bas been done 
'i. The court in which there is a judgment by default, or a decree on
a bill taken for confessed, or the judge of said court in the vacation there- 
of, may, on motion, reverse such judgment or decree for any error for
which an appellate court might reverse it, if the following section was 
not enacted, and give such judgment or decree as ought to be given.
, . . d . d d . 
And the court ID which 1s rondere a JU gment or ecrce, m a cause
h 
. h . d 1 . 1 .1h .1 f tl . d 
w erem t ere is a ec nratton or p eaumg, or m t e reeoru o ie Jll gment or decree, any mistake, miscalculation or misreeital of any name, 
sum, quantity or time. when the same is right in any part of the record
or proceedings, or when there is nny verdict, report of a commissioner, 
bond or other writing, whereby such judgment or decree may be safely
amendcd ; or in which a judgment is rendered on a forthcoming bond for
a sum larger than by tho execution or warrant of distress appears to be proper, or on a verdict in an action for more damages than are mentioned in the
declaration; or in the mention of the court in which any such judgment or
decree is rendered, the judge thereof may, on the motion of any party,
amend such judgment or decree according to the truth and justice of the 
. h th b , . 1 . d d
case ; or ID any sue case e party o tammg sue 1 JU gmcnt or ecree 
may, in the same court, at any future term, by an entry of record, or in
the vacation by a writing signed by him, attested by the clerk, and filed
among the papers of the cause, release a part of the amount of his judgment or decree ; and such release shall have the effect of an amendment,
and make the judgment or decree operate only for what is not released.
Every motion under this chapter shall be after reasonable notice to tho
opposite party, his agent or attorney, in fact or at law, and shall be within 
five years from the date of the judgment or decree.
6. No appeal, writ of error or suporsedeas, shall be allowed by an ap
pellate court or judge for any matter for which a judgment or decree is
liable to be reversed or amended, on motion as aforesaid, by the court 
which rendered it, or the judge thereof, until such motion be made and
overruled in whole or in part. And when an appellate court hears a cue
wherein an appeal, writ of error or eupersedeaa has been allowed, if it
appear that, either before or sinee the same was allowed, the judgment
or decree has been so amended, the appellate court shall affirm the judgment or decree, unless there be other error ; and if it appear that the
amendment ought to be, and has not been made, the appellate court may
make such amendment, and affirm in like manner the judgment or decree,
unless there be other error, 
~ 
1. ID what easea a person may appeal of
right from county or corporation court 
to circuit court. 
i error or supersedeaa may be preseutcd ;
when prohibited. 
}
ID wbat ease .. petition for appeal, writ of 
}
l:low person de11irlng to present such pe- 
:tltlon moy procure suepenston of e:r.o. entlon, 
6. } Record exhibited with petition ; how It
7. 11 made up.
8. ,Vhen CUlltl come, to appellate court or 
judge a second time, former record may
'bo Inspected ; power to award a certi
orari.
9. How petttlon Is prepared and rertlfted. 
10. To what court or Judge petition 111 pro11entl-1I. 
11. To whom petition f'or appenl may be
presented, and how certliled by counsel 
12. Appeal", when docketed In court of appeals : when in dl11trict court. How 
tran~ferred to court of uppeals.
13. When petition to be rt>jected; when or
der of n1"ctlon 111 ftnnl; when petttlon
mny be presented to judge of court of 
appeals.
14. "Where petition 11 allowed; when super
11ede1111 b awarded.
15. In what court appeal, writ of' error or 
supersedeas ia doeketod ; what proeess
ill11Ul'8. 
16. Where court of app<'all baa no jnrlsdlctlon, It 111 given to dlstrlct courts. 
17. Rejected petltlona for appeal presentable
to di~trict court or judge of court of
appeals, 
18 .. No appeals f'rom dlstrict court where
original jurtsdlctjon exercised. 
19. Applnls from db;trict courts docketed In
court of appenls. 
20. AppeulH from clrcult courts docketed in
court of appeals. 
l 
OF 
Bond of appdlant11 or pctltlonel'll: by
~ whom taken ; endorsement on J>roce1111 
Bl to bond. 
Su. 
23. Where appeal bond to be glven, and bow
process endorsed. 
24. How surety in such bond may obtalD Indenmity. 
25. 'Where appeal of right, when record to
be dellvered to clerk of elrenit court:
if not delivered, how appeul la dlilml111cd. 
26. If record be delivered five yt>an after
final Judgment or decree, no proceN 
to lune, but the ca.Ml to be dlamlued; 
IO also if bond be not ghen in ih~
27. Ah!~11111l8slon, no other appeal, writ 
of error or supersedees allowed in the
ease, 
28. In eatleR In court of nppeuls 11nd dl1trlet
courts, bow C'lcrks prepare reeords ;
how prluted, dlstrtbuted uud prlntlDs
paid for. 
29. Rules for printing record; bow tran1mltted. 
30. Docket of ca11e~ to be heard ; how made
out: publlcatiou by cl,rk at Lewiil
hnrg : eases to be heard in order,
31. What cruie11 mny be beard out of turn.
:J:Z. ( In wbat en"''" uppellute court mny be J 
:13. 5 purol testtmouy,
34. Declston of appellate conrt. 
:IJ. i \Vbat dnmagts ure awarded to appnllM 
36. 5 in court of upplu111 and dl~trlct eonrts,
3i, ,,hen elrcult court reversing judgmt>nt 
}
or decree DlRY retuln the cause. 
When clerk of court of appeals shall 
38. transmtt lts d1cl11lon; p(naltr on blm
39. for failure; postuge to he paid by him 
and repald 011t of treasury,
40. 'When clerk of lliiitri<'t court to transmit 
lb deetslon ; pl.'ilulty for failure; postage, how puld. 
41. How decision of conrt of appeals or dliltrlct court IK entered In rourt from
which <'lllll' came ; execution and otbproceedlngs. 
42. Tran11for of CUUS<'il. 
In what cases appeal may be entered or petition presented. 
t I. Any person who thinks himself aggrieved by an order in a controversy concerning the probate of a will, or the appointment or qualification of a personal representative, guardian or committee, or concerning a
mill, county road, or ferry, may, in a county or corporation court, during 
die term at which such order is made, appeal therefrom, of right, on giving bond as herein after mentioned. 
2. A person who is a party to any such controversy, or to any case in
ohancery, wherein there is a decree or order, dissolving an injunction. or
requiring money to be paid, or the possession or title of property to be 
eha.nged, or adjudicating the principles of the cause, or to any civil case,
wherein there is a final judgment, decree or order, may present a petition,
if the case be in chancery, for an appeal from tho decree or order, and if
JlOt in chancery, for a writ of error or aupersedeaa to tho judgment or 
order, except as follows . 
,:'f 3. No petition shall be presented for an appeal from, or writ of error
or supersedeas, to any finalt judgment, decree or order, whether the commonwealth be a party or not,which shall have been rendered more than
five years before the petition is presented ;II nor to any judgment of a
4)()unty or corporation court which is rendered on an appeal from a judgment of a justice ;,r nor to a.judgment, decree or order of any other court,
when the controversy is for a matter less in value or amount than one
hundred dollars, exclusive of costs,unless there be drawn in question a
freehold or franchise, or the title or bounds of land, or some matter not 
merely pecuniary. t t 
How execution may be suspended.
4. At the instance of any person who desires to present such petition, 
the court in which the judgment, decree or order is, may, during the term
at which it is rendered or made, or if it be in a circuit court, any circuit 
judge may, within sixty days after such term is ended, make an order
auspeudiug the execution of such judgment, decree or order (for a reasonable
time, to be specified in such order), when such person shall give bond before
the clerk of said court in such penalty as the court or judge may require,
with a condition reciting such judgment, decree or order, and the intention of said person to present such petition, and providing for the payment of all such damages as any person may sustain by reason of the
aaid suspension, in case a supersedeas to such judgment, decree or order,
should not be allowed, and be effectual within the time so specified. 
5. In a case in which it is lawful to present a petition for an appeal
from, or writ of error or supersedeas to a judgment, decree or order of a 
district court, the said court, or a judge of a district court, may make
euch suspending order as a circuit court or judge might make if the judgment, decree or order were in a circuit court. 
How the record is made up.
6. With such petition there shall be a transcript of the record of so 
moch of the case wherein the judgment, decree or order is, as will enable 
] d ) h . . b d 1
t re court or JU gc to w rom t e petition 18 to e preeente , proper y to 
decide on such petition, and enable the court, if tho petition he granted.,
properly to decide the questions that may arise before it. The perscn 
intending to petition shall notify the opposite party or his counsel of his
intention ; nnd 80 much of the record shall be copied as any party may
desire, except as follows : 
7. Unless the person so intending to petition direct otherwise, there
b 11 . h b .. l f h d ] 
B a not m a c ancery case e cop1eu, o t e process, or en at ru es, or
returns or evidences of service thereof, any but such as are uecessnry to 
show that the cause was regularly matured for hearing ; nor, of the commissions and notices to take depositions, captions to such depoeitions, and
certificates of their havlng been sworn to, any more than is necessnry t.o 
the decision of exceptions taken to the reading of tho depositions; bui
the name of each witness, and the day of taking his deposition, shall be
stated at the head thereof. If more than one copy of the same paper be
filed in the case, only one copy of it shall ho inserted. There shall not
bo copied an account reported by a commissioner, to which there is no
exception, nor any printed document, of which either party will furnish
to the clerk a. copy, but such duplicate shall be attached to what is co
pied; and when a case has before been in the appellate court, there shall
only be copied the proceedings subsequent to the former appeal, writ of
error or supersedeas. 
8. The appellate court, or a judge thereof, may, when a case has be- 
J' b h h d h t' I 1 
tore ecn m sue court, mspect t e recor upon t e rormer appea , wnt
f d A d h . d ~ 
o error or supcrse eas. n sue court may, m any case, awnr a wns
of certiorari to the clerk of the court below, and have brought before it, 
when part of a record is omitted, the whole or any part of such record. 
How petition is prepared and certified ; lo whom, presented and how
acted on. 
9. A petition for nn appeal, writ of error or eupersedeas, shall assign
errors ; and it shall not be presented until some counsel or attorney of
the appellate court shall certify that in his opinion it is proper that the
decision should be reviewed by such court. 
IO. The petition mav be presented to the court wherein the case is to 
be docketed, if the appeal, writ of error or supcrsedeas he allowed, or to 
a judge thereof; or, if the judgment, decree or order be of o. county or
corporation court, to any circuit judge. 
"tllWhen there is a petition for an nppcal, writ of error or supersedeas
to or from a judgment, decree or order of a circuit court, in n case of
mandamus, prohibition or habeas corpus, or in a controversy concerning 
the title or boundaries of land, or concerning the probate of a will, or concerning a mill, road, way, ferry or landing, or concerning the appointment or qualification of a personal representative, guardian, committee
or curator, or in any civil cause where the matter in controversy, exclusive of costs, is not less in value or amount. than five hundred dollars, and
not embraced by the sixteenth and tuienticth. sections of this ch apter," the 
counsel or attorney to certify as to the propriety of reviewing tho deolaion, may be counsel or attorney either of the supreme court of appeals
or a district court, and the petition may he presented to a judge of a district court, or to the supreme court of appeals, or a judge thereof. 
../ 12. If on a petition in any case mentioned in the preceding section,
the appeal, writ of error or snpersedeas be allowed by the supreme court 
of appeals in term, the same shall be docketed in said court. And if on 
I\ petition in any such ease, the appeal, writ of error or supersedeas be
allowed by a judge of said court or of o. district court, the same shall be 
docketed also in the supreme court of appeals, unless the appellant or
plaintifff in error ask it to be docketed in a district court, in which ease
it may, by order of said judge, be docketed in the district court for the
district constituted in part of the circuit wherein the judgment, decree or
order was made or rendered. But any case docketed under this section m a
district court shall, on the application of an appellee or ,defendant in error 
to such court or a judge thereof, be transferred by order of such court or
judge to the supreme court of appeala r provided such application be made 
within ninety days after the summons on the appeal, writ of error or
eupersedeas is returned executed on such appellee or defendant in error:
and provided the application be also made before the appeal, writ of error
or supereedeas is heard in the district court. 
'f.1:1. The petition shall be rejected, when it is for an appeal from an
interlocutory decree or order, in a case which the court or judge to whom 
it is presented deems it most proper should be proceeded in farther in the
court below, before an appeal is allowed therein. In a case wherein the
court or judge, to whom a petition is duly presented, shall deem the 
judgment, decree or order plainly right, and reject it on this ground, if
the order of rejection so state, and the rejection- be by tho court in term,
no other petition shall afterwards be presented to the same purpose, except that when the rejection is by a circuit court or circuit judge, the pe- 
tition. ( or a copy thereof), and the order of rejection, with the transcript
of the record, may be presented to a judge of the court of appeals. 
14. Any court or judge to whom a petition is duly presented, if of
opinion that the decision complained of ought to be reviewed, may allow
an appeal, writ of error or supersedeas, and in a case of appeal (as well
as of a superaedeaa), may award a supersedeaa to stay proceedings, either 
in whole or in part. 
In what court appeal, writ of error or supersedeas, is heard. 
'fJ.5. Every appeal, writ of error or supereedeas, shall, when it is to or
from a judgment, decree or order, of the court of any county or corpora- 
tion, be docketed in the circuit court which has jurisdiction over such
. d h . , , f d d 
connty or corporation ; an w en 1t 1s to or rom a JU gment. ecree or
order, of any other court, be docketed in the court of appeals, The clerk
of the court wherein it is docketed shall, in a case in which it is allowed
on petition, issue a summons against the parties interested other than the
petitioners, that they may be heard, and also issue any supersedeas which 
may be awarded 
x16. When an appeal, writ of error or snpersodeas is hereafter allowed 
to or from a judgment, decree or order of a circuit court in a civil cause, 
of which the supreme court of appeals is prohibited from having jurisdiotion by the eleventh section of the sixth article of the constitution, such
appeal, writ of error or supersedeas sba.11 be docketed in the district court
for tho district constituted in part of the circuit wherein the judgment,
decree or order was made or rendered. 
"/ 17. \Vhen a. petition for such appeal, writ of error or supersedeas is
rejected by a. judge of a. district court, such petition ( or a copy thereof)
and the order of rejection, with the transcript of the record, may be presented to the district court wherein the case would be docketed if the 
petition be allowed, or to ajudge of the supreme court of appeals. 
-.J._ 18. No appeal, writ of error or supersedeas shall be allowed to or
from o.juclgwent, decree or order of a district court, unless such judgment, decree or order be in a case of habeas corpus, mandamus or prohibition, wherein said court has exercised original jurisdiction.
} 19. Every appeal, writ of error or supersedcas allowed to or from a 
judgment, decree or order of a district court, shall be docketed in the
supreme court of appeals. 
-I 20. Every appeal, writ of error or supersedeas allowed to or from a
judgment, decree or order of a circuit court, in a controversy concerning
the right of a corporation or of a county to levy tolls, or taxes, or in a
case invoking freedom or the oonstitutioa.a.lity of a law, shall be docketed
in the supreme court of appeals. 
Bond of appellants or petitioners.
21. Except where an appeal, writ of error or superscdens, is proper to 
protect the estate of a decedent, convict or insane person, the same shall
not take effect until bond is given by the appellants or petitioners, or one
of them, or some other person, in a penalty to be fixed by the court or
judge by or in which the appeal, writ of error or euporsedeas, is allowed
or entered, with condition, if a supersedeas be awarded, to perform and
satisfy the judgment, decree or order, or the part thereof, proceedings
on which arc stayed, in case the said judgment, decree or order, or such
part, be affirmed, or the appeal, writ of error or supcrsedcae, be dismissed ; and also to pay all damages, costs and fees, which may be
awarded against or incurred by the appellants or petitioners, and if it be
an appeal from an order or decree dissolving an injunction or dismissing
a bill of injunction, with a further condition to indemnify aud save harmless the surety in the injunction bond against all loss or damage in consequence of his suretyship; and with condition, when no supersedeae is
awarded, to pay such specific damages and such costs and fees, as may
be so awarded or incurred. 
22. Such bond shall be taken by the clerk of the court in which an
appeal is entered of right, before such entry, or where an appeal, writ of
error or superaedcas, is allowed on petition, by the clerk of the appellate
court, before process is issued thereupon, except where the court of
appeals is the appellate court, the clerk whereof shall endorse on the
summons or supereedeas, that it is not to be effectual until such bond be 
given before the clerk of the court below, who shall take said bond and
endorse on the same process that it has been given, and the names of the
surettes therein. 
23. When o. district court is the appellate court, bond shall be given
before the clerk of tho com:t below in like manner as when the court of~
appeala is the appellate court, and the process shall be endorsed in like
manner. 
24. On the motion of any surety in such bond, after reasonable notice
to, or a rule against his principal, the appellate court may order bond to 
be given, in such time as it may prescribe, with sufficient security to 
indemnify and save harmless such surety against all loss or damage in
consequence of his suretyship, and if such order be not complied with, 
may order the appeal, writ of error or supersedeas, to be dismissed.
Dismission. where record is not filed in time. 
25. In a case in which there is an appeal of right, the clerk of the
court from whose order such appeal is taken, shall deliver a copy of tho
record to the clerk of the circuit court as soon as practicable, unless the
appellant direct him not to deliver it; in which case, he shall deliver to
the clerk of said circuit court a copy of the entry of the appeal, and a
certificate of such direction. On the production of such copy and certificate, the circuit court shall enter a dismission of the appeal. 
26. No proeess shall issue upon any appeal, writ of error or supersedeas
allowed to or from a final judgment, decree or order, if, when the record 
is delivered to the clerk of the appellate court, there shall have elapsed,
five years since the date of such final judgment, decree or order; but the
appeal, writ of error or snpersedeas shall be dismissed whenever it appears
that five years have elapsed since the said date before the record is delivered to such clerk, or before such bond is given as is required to be
given before the appeal, writ of error or supersedeas takes effect. 
27. After the diamisaion of an appeal, writ of error or supersedeae, no
other appeal, writ of error or aupersedeas shall be allowed to or from the 
same judgment, decree or order.
Records printed in, and docket of, cases to be heard. 
28. In every case docketed in the court of appeals or a district court,
the clerk of the court in which the case is docketed shall make a table of 
contents to the whole record. Of the petition, so much of the record as
t.he counsel for any party interested or the court may direct, and the table
of contents, the clerk shall cause eleven copies, if the case be in a district court, and twelve copies if the case be in the court of appeals, to be
printed, preserving in the margin of the printed record the paging of the
record from the court below, which shall be used in printing and returned
to the clerk's office. The clerk shall take care that the printing be properly done. Of the copies printed he shall deliver one to each judge, two
to the counsel on each side, retain one in bis office, and transmit one to
the clerk of the court below (in which the case was originally decided);
and when the case is in the court of appeals he shall deliver the other 
copy to the reporter. The cost of the printing, after being allowed by
the court, shall be paid out of the treasury. 
29. When a case, which has been docketed in any appellate court
(other than in o. circuit court), is afterwards docketed in another appellate court, if tho record was printed in tho former, it shnll not be again
printed in the latter court, unless directed by the court, but the printed
copies shall be transmitted by the clerk of tho former court to the clerk
of the latter. 
30. Annually before the court of appeals commences it.a session at 
R' h d . 0 b d L . h . J 1 th L. k h I
mon , m cto er, an at ewrs urg, m u y, e crer at eac p aee 
shall make out a docket of the causes there ready for hearing. Those at
Richmond shall be numbered by figures and shall be docketed in the 
order in which the records were received, and be heard in the same order.
Those at Lewisburg, from each circuit, shall be arranged together in like 

order ; the circuit shall be arranged m such order as the court may dea1gnatc ; and to each circuit the clerk shall assign a reasonable portion of
the term. One month before the term is to commence, the clerk shall
publish in a newspaper the order in which the circuits are arranged and
the days assigned to each circuit. The court shall hear the cauees in
that order ; except that, when the cases from nny circuit are not all heard
on the days assigned to it, they shall not he heard on days assigned to
another circuit, when it will interfere with causes therefrom, but may be
heard when there will be no such interference. 
31. The court may hear out of tum cases concerning the probate of a 
will, or the appointment or qualification of a personal representative.
guardian or committee, or concerning a mill or county road, and any
others which it may see good cause for so hearing. 
Hearing and decision in appellate court. 
32. On an appeal from an order of a county or corporation court, in a
controversy concerning the probate of a will, or the appointment or qualification of a personal representative, guardian or committee, or concerning n mill, county road or ferry, witucsses may be examined in the 
circuit court; but in no case shall the court of appeals hear parol testimony. 
33. The rule that parol testimony is not to be heard on an appeal, writ
of error or supersedeas shall prevail in the district courts as well 118 in
the court of appeals. 
34. The appellate court shall affirm the judgment, decree or order, if
there be no error therein, nod reverse the same in whole or in part, if 
erroneous, and enter such judgment, decree or order as the court, whose
error is sought to be corrected, ought to have entered; nfiinuing in those 
eases where the voices Oil Loth sides arc equal."
35. Where uuy judgment, decree or order isaffirmed, danrnges shall 
be awarded to the nppellee. Such damages, when the judgment, decree
or order is for the payment of money, shall be ut the rate of six per
centum per annum Oil the whole amount of the recovery (including interest and costs), from the time the appeal, writ of error or supersedeas
took eff ect, until the affirmance, or if the nffirruance be by the court of
appeals, until a copy of its decision is entered in the order hook of the
court below; which damages shall be in aatisfaction of all interest during 
that time. When the judgment, decree or order is not for the payment
of any money except costs, the damages shall be such specific sum os the
appellate court may deem reasonable, not being more than one hundred
dollars, nor, in the court of appeals, less than thirty dollars. 
36. A copy of every decision of n. district court on any appeal, writ of
error or superaedeas, shall be entered in the order book of the court be- 
low in like manner ns a copy of a decision of the court of appeals is so
entered ; and in case of nu affirmance by a district court, as in the case
of an affirmanee by the court of appeals. the damages, when the judgment, decree or order is for the payment of money, shall be until the
oopy of its decision is so entered. 
37. When any judgment, decree or order of a county or corporation
oourt is reversed or affirmed, the cause shall not be remanded to said court
for further proceedings, but shall he retained in tho circuit court, and
there proceeded in, unless by consent of the parties, or for good cause
shown, the appellate court direct otherwise. 
38. 'When any term of the court of appeals is ended, or sooner if the
di h l k h f h 11 ry d b nil h . 
court so irect, t e c er t ereo s a certi an , y m or ot erwise,
transmit its decisions to the clerk of the court below, except that it shall 
, , 
not be his duty to certify or transnut a copy of a decree or judgment of
affirmance, unless the appellee or defendant in error shall have paid all 
fees due from him in the ease, or shall endorse on such copy so much of
the decree or judgment for tho benefit of the clerk, as the unpaid fee
&hall amount to. If any clerk shnll fail to comply with this section for
twenty days, except as aforesaid, he shall forfeit fifty dollars to any person aggrieved thereby. 
39. On all decisions so transmitted by mail, the clerk shall pay the
postage. His accounts for such postage, verified by oath, may from time
to time, at intervals not exceeding eighteen months, be certified by the
court of appeals to the first auditor for payment out of the treasury. 
40. In respect to certifying and transmitting decisions of a district
court, its clerk shall perform like duties as a clerk of the court of appeals,
and under the like pennlties : and bis account for postage on decisions
transmitted hy mail may be certified by the district court, for payment
out of the treasury, in like manner as the accounts of the clerk of the
court of nppcnls may be so certified. 
41. The court from which any case may have come to a. district court
or to the court of appeals, shall enter the decision of the appellate court 
as its own, and execution rnav issue thereon accordingly. If such deeision be received bv the clerk of the court below in vacation, be shall 
. f d . 
0h'
1 b k d h l . 
enter It o recor m ta or, er oo , an t ereupon sue 1 execution may
issue and such proceedings be had in the case as would have been proper
if the decision bad Leen entered in court.
Tranefcr of causes j_42. lly consent of the parties or their counsel, a pending cause may 

be transferred from a district court t.o another district court, or from the
supreme court of appeals to a district court, or from a district court to
the said supreme court, except that there shall not be transferred to the
said supreme court any cause of which it cannot have jurisdiction consistently with the eleventh section of the sixth article of the constitution. 
&,.
1. Mo.tten under tblH title, rules for all 
courts.
2. How Jmldletlon hi determined, where 
proceeding 111 on a penal bond.
3. Who mny execute bond for obtnlnlog n 
writ or order. 
CHAPTER CLXXXIII. 
GENERAL PROVISIO~S AS TO CIVIL CASES, 
4. How proceedings may be In CO.lll.'11 pend
Ing when thh1 net commences, or In ao
tiou of replevln brought after. 
I. All things contained in any chapter under this title, not restricted
by their nature, or by express provision to a particular court, shall be the
rules of decision and proceeding in all courts within this state. 
2. Where the proceeding before a court of justice is on a penal bond,
with condition for the payment of money, the jurisdiction shall be determined lUI if the undertaking to pay such money had been without a penalty. And where jurisdiction depends on tho amount of a judgment, if
it be on such n. bond, the jurisdiction shall be determined by the sum,
payment whereof will discharge the judgment. 
3. A bond for obtaining any writ or order jn term time or vaeation,
may be executed by any one person with sufficient surety, though it be in 
a case no party to which is an obliger 4. In any case pending at the time of the commencement of this act, 
f ] b J f "
or in any action o rep evin roug 1t a ter, ror a cause which arose before 
such commencement, the proceedings, so far as it may not be practicable
for them to conform to other sections of this act, may be according t.o tho
laws in force on the clay before such commencement. 
5. Any suit wherein bail shall have been required, and not given,
before the commencement of this act, may be proceeded in as if the same
bad not been required." And in any suit wherein hail shall have been
given before the commencement of this act, the plaintifff may proceed
against the bail, and the bnil may be discharged, according to the laws in
force before such commencement: but no principal surrendered in a
pending suit by such bail shall be committed to jail because of such surrender. 
6. When a. judgment for specific personal property is affirmed by an
appellate court, or an injunction to such judgment is dissolved, the person 
wbo is entitled to execution of such judgment, or who would he entitled
if execution had not been had, may, on motion to the court from which
such execution has issued or might issue, after four weeks' notice to the 
---------- ------------- 
Sec. 
5. Prol'eN!ln~ In cue 1'1"hl'l't'ln ball given
before thh1 act commences, 
6. Where judgment for ~pt>d6c pM"1!0Dal 
property 111 affirmed or lnJunction to
such Judgment Is dissolved, damoge
may be given for detention of pnr
perty ; how the party entitled to damoges to proceed. 
defendant or his penonal representative, have a jury impanneled to ascertain the damages sustained by reason of the detention of such proBerty,
subsequent to such judgment, or if it wae on a verdict, subsequent to such
verdict; and judgment shall be rendered for the damages so ascertained,
if any. 
CH. 184. Of the fees of officers.
185. Of costs generally. 
CHAPTER CLXXXIV. 
OF THE FEES OF OFFICERS. 
&c.
1. Fees ot secretary ot commonwealth and 
clerk of house of delegates, 
2. or aurveyon.
3. When surveying Is done at different 
placea on ll&Jlle tour. how mileoge ls 
apportioned.
4. Fees of notary public and Justices. 
6. Of comml81loner In chancery.
6. Commleidoner to make affidavit of the 
time he was employed ; right to require payment of fees, or aecurlty
therefore, before maklng out or return
Ing a report.
7. Notary or commf11loner to state on affi
davit, dcpoll.ltlon or report, fee therefore,
and to whom charged. 
8. ? Fees of commisslonen In certain counties
9. 5 and cities, 
10, Fees of clerk ot county or corporation
court. 
IL Fees of clerks of circuit courts.
12. Feea of clerks of court of appeals and 
dbtrlct courts; at what rate records In 
court of appeals {printed) are charged,
13. Feet of sheriff, aergeaut or crier. 
U. Feee of a coroner or constable.
15. To whom fees are charged. 
16. For what servlces clerk Is not to charge. 
17. What not to be charged for by sheriff' or
sergeant. 
18. Services rendered In commonwealth's 
caee11 not paid for out or treuury, exeept In particular cases. 
19. Fee books; by what officers kept; what
entered therein; submitted to Inspee
tion or commlaalonen.
'20. Fee bills; how and when made out ; to 
be produced before payment Is compelled; penalties for illegal demands;
how fee bill may be quashed. 
iitle 5! 
FEES AND COSTS. 
Su. 
}
By whom and how bills are made out for 
21. fees due a deceased clerk ; to whom de
22. Ilvered ; how service In making them 
sa ui!t i~1f:1!.~0~ade out for a clerk not
reappointed. 
24. When and to whom fee bills are delivered
for collection; power and duty of col
lectlng officer. 
25. When and how collecting officer accounts
for fee blll11 collected and return, those
uncollected ; remedy tor what officer ls 
chargeable with.
26. Within what time fee bills may be col
lected.
'rl. Officer or wltne11 to whom for fees or at, 
tendanee there Is due any thing that Ill 
taxed In costs; right lo payment out of
the costs. 
~. When officer ls entitled before perform
lug servtees to have security for hl11
fee&. 
29. Annual account of clerk& of court of appeals of money received for printed re
cords; how much they are to pay lnto
the treaaury, and when. 
30. Payments out of the treasury. 
33 l To sheriff' or other officer for arresting, 
3L To clerk of county or corporation court. 
32. To clerk of circuit eonrt, 
34' removing or supporting criminal&. Pay
to guards. Fees for other services. 
35. To a constable. 
36. To a sherlft' or aergeanL 
:n. To a jailor.
38. Payments to officers by county or cor
poration, Special prov!Rion for Not,
toway and Prince Edward counties and 
city of Richmond. 
Secretary of commonwealth and clerk of house of delegates.
I. The secretary of the commonwealth may charge for services ren- 
dered in hie office, the following fees, to be paid by the person.for whom
the service is rendered, at the time it is done : For a. testimonial, one 
dollar and fifty cents; for a copy of any paper, if on one sheet, one
dollar; and for each sheet after the first, seventy-five cents; for issuing
a commission to a commissioner in another state, five dollars ; for issuing 
a commission to each notary public and inspector appointed by the 
governcr, two dollars and fifty cents; for me.king out a requisition for a
fugitive from justice demanded of another state, two dollars ; for Issuing
a warrant for the arrest of a fugitive demanded by the executive authority
of another state, two dollars. The clerk of the house of delegates, for a
copy of an act of o.ssembly, if in one sheet, one dollar, and for each sheet
after the first, seventy-five cents. These fees shall be paid by the person
for whom the service is rendered, at the time it is doue.s 
2. Each of the officers herein after mentioned, may, for services performed by him by virtue of his offiee, charge the following fees, to wit : 
A surveyor.+
For all surveying actually done, for the first one hundred poles, 
or any less distance, long measure, per pole, - is O l
tAfter the first 100 poles, long measure, per pole, Oj 
For calculating the quantity of less than six courses or lines, - 50
When land is divided, for calculating each division of less than 
six courses, 50
For every course or line more than six, 3 
For making a plat of six courses, or less, 50
For every course more than six, 3
For recording a plat and certificate, if not more than six 
courses, 50
For every course above six, 3
For a copy of a plat and certificate, where there are not more 
than six courses, 50
For every course above six, 3
For ma.king an entry, 50
For a copy of an entry, 17
For every search, where no copy is required, 12i
For giving a receipt for a warrant or any other paper, 17
For traveling to the place of surveying, and returning, per mile, 5 
If surveying be done at different places, on the same tour, the
mileage shall he apportioned among the different surveys according to 
their distance from the residence of the surveyor or deputy and each
other, so that the surveyor shall not receive more than five cents a mile
for going and returning for any one trip. 
4. A notary public and justices of the peace.
,vhere there is a protest by him, for the record thereof, making
out instrument of protest under his official seal, and notice of
dishonor to one J)erson besides the maker of a note or acceptor of a bill, - $1 00 
For every additional notice, IO 
For taking and certifying the acknowledgment of any deed or
writing ; or taking and certifying the privy examination and
acknowledgment of a married woman, - $ 0 50 
For administering and certifying an oath, unless it be the affidavit of a witness, 25 
For taking and certifying affidavits or depositions of witnesses,
where done in an hour, 75 
If not done in an hour, for any additional time, at the rate per
hour of 75 
For other services, the same fee as the clerk of a. county or
corporation court for like services. 
5. A commissioner in chancery.
For services which might be performed by notaries, the like fees for 
lik ' 
I o services.
For any other service such fees as the court by which the commissioner 
is appointed may from time to time prescribe, not exceeding seventy-five
cents, where less than an hour is employed, and if more than an hour be
employed, not exceeding the rate of seventy-five cents for each hour. 
6. A commissioner returning a report shall annex thereto an affidavit,
that he was diligently employed not less than hours in performing 
the services for which the foes stated at the foot thereof are charged.
Until such affidant is made, no bill shall be made out for said fees. A
commissioner shall not be compelled to make out or return a report until
his fees therefore be paid or security given him to pay so much as may be
adjudged right by the court to which the report is to be returned, or if it 
he n circuit court, by the judge thereof in vacation, unless the court or
judge see cause to order it to be made out and returned without such 
payment or security, and shall so order.
7. A notary or commissioner returning affidavits or depositions of wit
ncsscs, shall state at the foot thereof the fees therefore. To whom such
f ecs or the fees for a commissioner's report are charged, and if paid, by
whom, shall also be mentioned, when the fees are stated. 
Fees of commissioners in certain cities and counties.
8. A commissioner in chancery residing in the city of Richmond, city 
of Norfolk or city of Alexandria.s may charge for services which might
be performed by a notary, the like fees for like sen-ices, and for any other
services, such fees as the court by which the eommiasioner is appointed 
may from time to time prescribe, not exceeding one dollar, where less
than an hour is employed ; and if more than an hour be employed, not 
exceeding the rnte of one dollar for each hour.
9. A commissioner in chancery residing in the counties of Albemarle, 
Goochland, Prince Edward, Northampton, Powhatan, Cumberland or
Fhrvanna, or the cities of Petersburg or Lynchburg, shall receive for services which might be performed by notaries, the like fees for like services, and for any services, such fees as the court by which he is appointed may from time to time prescribe, not exceeding one dollar 
when less than an hour is employed; and if more than an hour be eD1ployed, not exceeding the rate of one dollar for each hour. 
IO. .A clerk of a county or corporation court;"
Where a writing is admitted to record under chapter one hun
dred and twenty-one, for every thing relating to it, except the
recording in the deed book, to wit : For receiving proof or
acknowledgment, entering orders, writing on it clerk's certificate, statement of deed in list returned to court, recording in
minute book, and posting same, and embracing it in list for
commissioner of the revenue, - $ 0 50 
For recording a plat of not more than six courses, or for a copy
thereof, 50 
For every course above six, 3
For recording in the deed book such writing, and all matter 
therewith (except plats), or for recording any thing not otherwise provided for, for every thirty words, 3 
In lieu of the said allowance of three cents for thirty words, the
clerk may, for recording in the deed book, elect to charge the
following specific fees, to wit : Where the writing is a deed
of trust or mortgage, or is a conveyance of real and personal
estate, or of real estate only, 75 
And where it is not such, 25
For swearing the witnesses, and entering in the order or minute 
book all orders in relation to the proof of a will which is admitted to record without contest, and copying such orders on
the wHl, 50 
For recording a will, and the matter recorded therewith in the
will book, at the option of the clerk, three cents for every
thirty words, or a specific fee of 30 
If there be an order committing a decedent's estate to an officer,
for entering and copying such order, and the orders of appraisement, t 50 
If any personal representative qualify, for swearing him and hia
surety, making out bond, entering and copying on the will 
order granting probate or administration, making one copy of
such order for the representative, entering and copying orders
of appraisement, and including case in said list, I 00 
If several personal rcpresentarives qualify on the same estate,
during the same term, only the same foe shall be charged as
if one had qualified, to wit, - 1 00 
For entering and copying an order granting a license, and administering an oath, where necessary, 75 
On an application for a marriage license, for administering and
writing certificate of oath, issuing and registering license, and
recording and giving receipt for certificate of the marriage, 1 00 
For a search for any thing above a year's standing, except where 
the clerk, at the request of counsel, searches for papen in a
pending cause, - $ 0 10 
For recording a certificate and posting a copy thereof under the
second section of chapter one hundred, 50 
For making out an injunction bond, administering all necessary
oaths, writing proper affidavits, making out release of errors,
copying same and endorsing on the summons that such bond
and release are ijled, 75 
For making out any other bond, administering all necessary
oaths and writing proper affidavits, 50 
For issuing a writ in the nature of an ad quod damnum, 85
On receiving the copy of a caveat, for entering such copy, 25
For issuing a summons to answer a bill, with an endorsement 
thereon of an injunction, or of an order of attachment, and
recording return of same, 35 
For issuing any other summons, or any writ not particularly provided for, and for recording the return where proper to do so, 20 
For each copy of any process which goes out of the office (with
such process), to be used in serving it, one-half the fee for
issuing such process. 
For noting in the process book any decree, order or process ( except a summons for a witness), and taking a receipt therefore, 18 
For postage paid by the clerk on a decree, order or process, and
putting in or taking out of post office same, double the amount
of such postage. 
For entering in any suit or in a motion for judgment for money,
all the attorneys for each party, or the appearance in proper
person of a party having no attorney who so appears, 10 
For endorsing and :filing each petition, declaration, bill: answer
or other written pleading, each bill of exceptions, demurrer to
evidence, special verdict or case agreed, each written notice
of the defense relied on in ejectment, or of a motion for judgment for money, and each report of a commissioner, and for
entering each plea, replication or other pleading which is not
written, 15 
For endorsing and filing all the depositions and affidavits of witnesses, filed on the same side at any one time, or all the written interrogatories at one time, from one party to another, or
all the answers filed at one time to such interrogatories, or the
exceptions filed at one time by either party to a commissioner's report, 15 
If papers be filed on the side of the plaintifffs, for which no particular fee is allowed, a fee (not for each, but for the whole) of 20 
So also, if papen be filed on the side of the defendants, for
which no particular fee is allowed, o. fee (not for each, but for
the whole) of - 20 
For issuing an attachment with a copy of the rule or order for
the same (if sent out therewith), and recording the return 
thereof, where proper to do so, 35
For issuing a seire facias and recording the return thereof; or 
for issuing a commission to examine witnesses, administering
oath when necessary as the foundation thereof, and writing
affidavit, - t O 50 
For all the rules entered in any case on the same side, at the
rules for one month, where any thing is done on such side at
said rules, besides entering or filing a pleading or continuing 
the case, 25
Where no proceedings are had in a case during any rules except 
to continue it, the fee shall be at the rate of 25 cents for every
quarter of a year the case is so continued, and no more. 
For docketing any suit, or any motion for judgment for money
(to be charged only once), 10 
Except that where an action or motion is on the court docket at
a quarterly term, if no decision or continuance be entered in
it, there shall be a fee for putting it on the docket at the next 
term, of 18
Where a jury is impanneled, for swearing the jury and wit- 
nesses,
Where no jury is impanneled, if witnesses be examined by the 
court, for swearing such witnesses for either party, Where a witness claims for his attendance, for administering an 
oath to him, and entering and certifying such attendance,
For administering any oath not before provided for, and writing 
a certificate thereof, where the case requires one,
For all judgments, decrees, orders and proceedings ( except en
tries of pleadings and matters otherwise provided for), which
are entered on the same day, for the same persons, at the election of the clerk, three cents for every thirty words ( actually
written on the minute or order book, or upon the rule book,
when final judgments arc entered therein), or o. specific fee of 
For docketing under chapter one hundred and eighty-six a judgment, decree, bond or recognizance, 
For taxing costs in any case on one side,
And if the case has been pending more than a year, then for 
fiery additional year,
When an execution is returned by a constable in a case wherein 
there is no appeal from the justice's judgment, for filing the
papers, JO 
Aml if the clerk issue an execution in the case, for such execution and all his other services in the case, until and including
the record of the return of said execution (if it be returned
before another issues), 40 
For any other execution, the entry in the execution book and
the record of the return, 40 
For making out a transcript of the record and proceedings in
any case, in due form, so that the same may be used in an
appellate court, for every thirty words three cents ; and for
making out, in any other manner than copying, any paper to
go out of the office, which is not otherwise provided for, the 
same, or in lieu thereof, if the clerk elect, a specific fee of 25 
70 
20 
30 
15 
20 
25
20 
10 
For any copy to go out of the office, if it be not otherwise provided for, two cents for every thirty words, or in lieu thereof, 
if the clerk elect, a specific fee of - SO 20 
For annexing the seal of the court to any paper, writing the
certificate of the clerk accompanying it, and writing certificate for the judge or presiding justice, if the clerk be requested 
so to do,37 
11. A clerk of a circuit court. t 
For a writ of supersedeas or other writ not used in a county
court, 
For making out the bond upon issuing any such writ, administering necessary oaths and writing proper affidavits, 
Upon any such writ, for endorsing and filing the petition therefor, or when the writ is returned, for filing it, with the return 
thereon,
For filing the record upon an appeal or on such writ,
When the clerk of the court of appeals iasaes process on an ap
peal, writ of error or anpersedeas, for making out the bond,
administering necessary oaths, writing proper affidavits, and 
endorsing on the process a certificate of the execution of the
bond, and of the names of the sureties therein, 
For docketing any case, a fee of 18 cents, or if the clerk elect,
in lieu thereof, three cents for every thirty words entered on
the rule book when it is first docketed; this fee for docketing 
to be charged but once, except that when any case, either at
law or in equity, is on the court docket, if at any term it be
left undecided, without an order of continuance, there shall
be a fee for putting it on tho docket at the next term, of 
For all judgments, decrees, orders and proceedings ( except
entries of pleadings and matters otherwise provided for),
which arc entered on the same day for the same persons, at
the election of the clerk, three cents for every thirty words
( actually written on the order book, or upon the rule book,
when final judgments are entered therein), or specific fee of 
After a decision by the circuit court or court of appeals, as an
appellate court, for issuing an execution, making entry thereof 
in the execution book, and recording the return,
Unless the decision be by the court of appeals, in a case wherein 
the first judgment or decree was in a county or corporation
court, in which case the fee shall be 
For taxing the damages to which a party may be entitled by
reason of an injunction, appeal, writ of error or aupersedeaa, 
For all other services, the same fees as a clerk of a county or
corporation court for similar services ; except that the clerk 
of a circuit may charge,- 
50 
50 
15
15 
75 
36 
75 
1 00 
40 
In chancery cases. 
For issuing' an attachment or a summons, with an endorsement
of an order of attachment or injunction, - 0 50 
For process for which no higher fee is allowed, 25 
If when a. bill or answer is filed, there be filed at the same time
any exhibit, on which the clerk endorses the name of the case
and the day it is filed, for every such exhibit, 5 
When more than three exhibits are returned with a commissioner's report (but not annexed thereto), for endorsing and
filing such exhibits, a fee, not for each, but for all filed with
the same report, of 
If papers be filed on the side of the plaintifffs, for which no fee
is before provided, a fee, not .for each, but for the whole of
such papers, of 
And if papers be filed on the side of defendants, for which no
fee is before provided, a fee, not for each, but for the whole 
of such papers, of
For entering in the rule book the return of all process return
able to the same rule day, a fee, not for each defendant named
therein, nor for every such process, but for the whole of the
defendants named in all such process, of 
For all the rules entered in any case on the same side at the
rules for one month, when any thing is done on such side at
said rules, besides entering or filing a pleading or continuing
the case, 
For any execution, the entry of the case in the execution book,
and the record of the return, unless a higher fee be allowed
therefore, 
'/ 12. The clerks of the court of appeal, and district courts.The eam'e fees as the clerk of a circuit court for similar services. 
In every ease wherein printing is done under the nineteenth section of the one hundred and eighty-second chapter, the clerk 
of the court of appeals shall charge in such case to the appellants or plaintifffs in error, at the rate of a cent for every ten
words actually printed, and t.o the appellees or defendants in
error, at the like rate. 
13. A sheriff, sergeant or crier.f
For serving on any person a declaration in ejectment, or an 
order, notice, summons or other process, where the body is
not taken, and making return thereof, 50 
Except tho.t the fee for summoning a wlmesa shall only be 20
For serving on any person an attachment or other process under 
which the body is taken, 60
For receiving a person in jail, twenty-five cents, and the like 
sum for discharging him therefrom. 
25 
25 
25 
35 
50 
50 
For carrying a prisoner to or from jail, for each mile of necessary
travel, either in going or returning, - 0 05 
For taking any bond, 60
Where a jury is sworn in court, for summoning and impanneling 
such jury,
Where a jury is summoned upon a writ of elegit or ad quod dam
num, or any inquest in vacation, for summoning them, one
dollar; and for attending at the place of their meeting, one
dollar ; and if the jury attend there, and an inquisition be
found and returned, 
For serving a writ of possession,
For serving a writ of distringas on a judgment or decree for per
sonal property, if the specific thing be taken,
For keeping and supporting any slave or other person confined 
in jail, for each day,
For keeping and supporting any horse or live stock distrained or 
levied on, seventeen cents per day for each horse, mule or
mare ; and if the mare have a suckling colt, no more ; five
cents per day for each hog or head of horned cattle, and three
cents per day for every sheep or goat. 
The court of any county or corporation may, at any time, when
the acting justices have been summoned to consider the sub
ject, or a. majority thereof is present, fix or alter the rates to 
be thenceforth paid in such county or corporation for keeping
and supporting any person in jail, or any horse or live stock;
but the rates 88 fixed or altered shall never exceed those 
herein before mentioned.
The officer shall be repaid any necessary expense incurred by 
him in keeping property not before mentioned, or in removing 
any property; and when, after distraining or levying, he
neither sells nor receives payment, and either takes no forthcoming bond, or takes one whioh is not forf oited, he shall, if
in no default, have (in addition to the sixty cents for a bond,
if one wu taken) a fee of three dollars, unless this be more
than the half of what hie commission would have amounted
to if he had received payment; in which case he shall (whether
a bond was taken or not) have a fee of sixty cents at the
least, and so much more as is necessary to make the said half. 
The eommiesion to be included in a forthcoming bond (when
one is taken), shall be five per centum on the :first three hundred dollars of the money for which the distress or levy is,
and two per centom on the residue of said money : but such
commission shall not be received unless the bond be forfeited,
or the amount (including the commission) be paid to the
plaintifff. 
An officer receiving payment in money or selling goods shall
have the like commission of five per centum on the first three
hundred dollars of the money paid or proceeding from the 
I 00 
2 00
I 50 
I 50 
30 
sale, and two per centum on the residue; except that when
such payment or sale is on an execution on a forthcoming
bond, his commission shall be only half what it would be, if
the execution were not on such bond. 
14. A coroner or eonstobleA coroner shall have for taking an inquest on a dead body, five 
dollars; and a constable, for summoning a coroner's jury and
the witnesses, three dollars. 
A constable shall have, for removing a person by virtue of a
warrant, issued under chapter fifty-one, by a justice or one of
the overseers of the poor (to be charged to said overseers)
four cents for each mile of necessary travel, either in going or
returning. 
For whipping a slave (to he paid by the owner), - $ 0 50
For serving a warrant under chapter one hundred and fifty, or 
taking a bond, or giving a notice thereon, 30
But the fee for summoning a witness, or a garnishee on an at- 
tachment, shall only be 20
For other services not otherwise provided for, a coroner and 
constable shall have the same fees as a sheriff or sergeant for
similar services. 
How fees arc charged; and fee bills made out.
15. The fees mentioned in this chapter shall be chargeable to the party 
at whose instance the service is performed, except that fees for entering
and certifying the attendance of witnesses, and the proceedings to compel
payment for such attendance, shall be charged to the party for whom the
witness attended ; and except also as follows: 
16. No clerk shall charge for taking bond from, administering oaths
to, or copying orders as to the recommendation, appointment or qualification of any justice, or of any sheriff, sergeant, coroner, commisaioner of
the revenue or surveyor, or of a deputy or assistant of any of them, or
of any escheator, constable, militia officer, or overseer of the poor, or of
a guardian where his bond Is in a penalty not exceeding one thousand
dollars, nor for making or copying orders as to binding out poor children,
or as to county levies, or grand juries, and administering the necessary
oaths. 
17. No sheriff or sergeant shall charge for serving such or any other
public orders, nor for summoning and impanneling grand juries ; nor for
any services in elections except such as a fee is allowed for under the
third title of this Code. 
18. No clerk, sheriff or sergeant shall receive payment out of the
ti . d d . f th alth t 
treasury or any services ren ere m cases o e commonwe , excep
where it is allowed herein after, or by some other chapter. 
19. Every officer to whom the second section applies, shall keep a fee
book, wherein shall be entered the fees for every service performed by 
l him, and the fact of such fees being paid, or of a bill being made out
therefore, whichever shall happen first. The fee books of a clerk shall be 
submitted to the inspection of the commissioners appointed to examine
the clerk's office. 
20. No person shall be compelled to pay nny fees before mentioned,
until there be produced to him a fee bill, signed by the officer to whom
the fees are due, expressing the particulars for which such fees are
charged. And no such fee bill shall be made out for any service not previously performed, unless a person desire to pay before such perf ormancc;
in which case, there shall be mentioned in such fee bill the nature of
the service, and the fact that it is to he performed. Nor shall an officer,
for any service, make out a fee bill for more than is allowed therefore.
Nor shall he, for the same service, attempt to obtain payment a second
time ; or even make out a fee bill a second time, unless he endorse the
fact, and swear that the former bill remains unpaid. For each item in
which an officer shall violate this section, he shall forfeit five dollars to
any person prosecuting therefore, and the circuit, county or corporation
court of the county or corporation in which an officer resides, may, on
motion, after reasonable notice to him, quash any fee bill made out by
him contrary to law. 
How bills are made out for fees due a deceased clerk or a clerk not
reappointed, 
21. When a clerk dies, his successor shall charge, in the fee books of
the clerk's office, such lawful fees as do not appear to have been charged 
therein, for services performed by the decedent, and make out fee bills
for such fees, and alao for any fees charged on the said books by the decedent, for which he does not appear to have made out fee bills in his
lifetime ; except that such of these aa appear to said successor to be for
more than is allowed by law, shall be reduced by him so far as, in his 
judgment, is necessary, to make them legal.
22. The fee bills made out under the preceding section shall show on 
their face that they are for fees due the decedent, and shall be signed by
his successor, and delivered to the personal representative of such dece- 
dent, as soon as practicable. Such successor shall receive, for his services under this and the preceding section, such compensation as the
court, whereof he is clerk, shall adjudge to be reasonable, which shall be
paid by said personal representative, or by the officer who may collect
said fee hills, out of the first proceeds of said collection. 
23. In any case in which fees are chargeable by a clerk, for services
performed before the first day of July next, the person entitled to said
fees, although not reappointed clerk, shall after that day have free access
to the books and papers in the clerk's office, for the purpose of making
entries in a fee book and making out fee bills for said services, and shall
have the same power to make out and sign such fee bills, and tho same 
means to enforce the collection thereof, and the same remedy against
officers for failing to collect and account for said fee bills, as if said person wore still in the office of clerk." 
How fee bills are collected and accounted for.
::::::24. Any officer mentioned in this chapter, or the personal representa- 
___________________________ 
tive of a deceased clerk, may, after the first day of January, and before
the first day of August in any year, deliver fee bills, duly signed, to any
sheriff or collector of the public taxes, who shall receive and endeavor to 
collect the same. A sheriff or collector may distrain therefore or for any
bills due himself, such property of the person to whom the fees are charged,
as might be levied on, under a writ of fieri facias against him, except as
herein after mentioned: and the ninth, tenth. and eleventhsections of the
thirty-sixth chapter shall apply to such fee bills in like manner as to taxes.
-::::.25. Every sheriff' or collector to whom such fee bills are so delivered, 
shall, on or before the :fifteenth day of December next after such delivery, account therefore with the officer or personal representative entitled
thereto, by returning such as he may not have collected, with an endorsement thereon that the person charged with the fees has no estate in his
county or corporation, out of which the same could be made, and by pay
ing to such officer or representative the amount of all not so returned,
deducting a. commission for himself of seven and a. half per centum on
said amount. If he fail so to do, judgment may be obtained, on motion,
against said sheriff or collector and his sureties, and his and their personal representatives, or against any deputy who may have signed the
receipt for said fees, or his personal representative, for the amount with
which such sheriff, collector or deputy is chargeable, and damages thereon
not exceeding fifteen per centum per annum, from the said fifteenth day
of December till payment. Such judgment may be, on motion in the circuit, county or corporation court, of the county or corporation in which
said sheriff or collector resides, and if the fees be due to the clerk of the
court of appeals held at the seat of government, it may be in any circuit,
county or corporation court there holden. On such motion, any receipt
for fees mentioned in the notice, as signed by any person, shall be deemed 
to be his signature, unless an affidavit be filed denying it.
26. No fee bill shall be collected by distress, warrant or suit, after five 
years from the end of the year in which the service was performed that
is charged therein, unlesa, within fire years before the institution of such 
proceeding, it was returned by an officer, with such endorsement thereon
(properly dated) as is mentioned in the preceding section. 
27. An officer or witness to whom, for fees or attendance, any thing is
due that is taxed in costs for which there is judgment or decree, may,
within one month after such judgment or decree, lodge in the clerk's
office of the court wherein the same is rendered, his fee bills for such fees,
or certificate for such attendance. The amount due each officer or witness for what is so lodged, shall, and the amount due the clerk himself
for fees so included, may, within the said month, be noted in the margin
of the order or execution book, opposite the entry of the case. An officer
or witness, whose fees or certificate may be so noted, shall be paid the 
same out of the costs, by the person against whom the judgment or decree is; and the right to such payment shall be valid against any assignee
of the judgment or decree. When the clerk issues execution in such case,
he shall endorse thereon how much of said costs is for each officer or witness whose fees or certificate may be so noted ; and the officer collecting
said costs, shall pay the same accordingly to those entitled thereto. 
28. No officer mentioned in this chapter shall be obliged to perform
. f id f th" 1 f hi " " 
services or a non-resi ent o is state, un eBB payment o 18 ,ees ,or
said services be secured ; nor to perform services for any person againBt 
whom he has had fee bills returned which remain unaatisfied, unless he
be secured payment of his fees for the eervieee desired, or performance of
laid services be directed by a court. 
29. Each clerk of the court of appeals shall annually render to the
auditor of public accounts an account of all money received by him within
the preceding fiscal year, for records printed, and, after swearing to the 
correctness of said account, shall pay into the treasury, on or before the
fifteenth day of December next following, one-half of said money, or of
so much thereof as may not have been previously accounted for and
paid.
Payment, to officer, out of the trea,ury.
30. There shall be paid out of the treasury to clerks, sheriffs, sergeants, 
coroners and constables (after the same are duly certified to the auditor
of public accounts), as follows, to wit: 
To a clerk of a county or corporation court :
==31. When the court is sitting for the examination of a person charged 
with felony, or for the trial of a negro, three dollars and fifty cents; to
be charged but ouce in the same case, whether the court sit therein more
than one day or not. 
To o. clerk of any circuit court:
32. For services rendered the commonwealth in a civil case, such fees 
ae would be charged for the like services rendered to an individual ; and
for other public services, unless he receives an annual salary, such sum
as the court may allow him, not exceeding thirty dollars for one year. 
To a. sheriff or any other officer: 
JQa, For an arrest for felony, one dollar; and for conveying any person,
charged with or convicted of felony, to jail, or from one jail to another, 
or to the penitentiary, for each mile in going and returning ten cents.
The officer shall also be allowed for the support of the prisoner during
the removal, and for assistance to make the arrest or effect the removal,
such charge as may have been necessarily incurred by him, to be shown
by hie own affidavit; and where he has assistance, by the affidavit also of
each person employed by him ; such charge for assistance not to exceed,
where it is in making an arrest, seventy-five cents per day for each person employed to assist him, and not to exceed, where it is in conveying a
prisoner, ten cents per mile going and returning, for each guard. 
34. For executing a wriof venire faeiaa, one dollar and fifty cents ;
for whipping a free person by order of a court or justice, fifty cents; and 
for executing a sentence of death, five dollars in addition to the expenses
actually incurred by the officer in its execution. 
To a constable :
35. For an arrest in any criminal case other than felony, 
For summoning o. witness in any criminal case, For executing a search warrant, - 
- 0 50 
20 
50 
To a sheriff or sergeant :
36. For attending any circuit court and for all services for the com
monwealth, not otherwise provided for, such sum as the said court may 
allow him, not exceeding twenty dollars for one year. 
\ I To a jailor : 
p. In a case of the commonwealth for receiving a person
in jail when first committed, - $ 0 25 
For keeping and supporting him therein for each day, - 35
For discharging him therefrom, 25 
38. For attending any circuit court having jurisdiction of criminal
cases, and for all serviees for the commonwealth not otherwise provided
for, such sum as the said court may allow him, not exceeding thirty dol
lars for one year. In Spotsylvania the allowance may be apportioned
between the jailor at the county courthouse and the jailer in Fredericksburg, as the court may deem just. 
Payments to officers by county or corporation; special provisi.on for Not
toway and Prince Edu:ard counties and city of Richmond,
39. There shall be chargeable in every county or corporation such sum 
RS the court thereof may, for sen-ices t-0 the public of the county or town,
allow its clerk and the sheriff or sergeant attending it, not exceeding for
one year two hundred dollars to its clerk, and seventy-five dollars to its
sheriff or sergeant, except that the county courts of Nottoway and Prince 
Edward may allow such sum as they shall deem proper to their clerks, not
exceeding four hundred dollars ; and the eorporation court of Richmond
may make such allowance as it may deem proper to its clerk and sergeant,
for services for which no other compensation is made by law. 
CHAPTER CLXXXV. 
011, COSTS GE~"ERALLY. 
&e. f Sec.
1. Poor persons allowed servleea from eoun- I 8. Genl'ral nrlo that party for whom final 
sel nnd officers, without fc<R or (' o~!H. judgment Is glvon In action or on mo2. Security for eosts : how required; when tion for money, recovers coats ; how, 
suit dismissed, if not glven , if given, where jmlg1mnt for, or dlscontlnunnee
by bond, remecly thereon. as to some, but not all the defendnnts, 
3. How obligor in such bond mny obtain 9. Whr-n suit jij In name of one p1r11011 for
indemnity. benefit of another. 
4. Costs on certain motions and lnterlocn-1 10. How laws of coats are lntorpreted ; distory orders, cretlon of courts of equity. 
5. ,vhcn new trial is granted. I 11. Co11t11 in appellate court.
6, Jo personal actlon not on contract, where 12 } How costs are taxer! by tho clerk; what 
verdict is for less than flO. i to ho Includes for attorney's fee; and
7. In personal action on contract, whore 15. what else ht' taxes. 
lcMB I~ found due than $20 exclusive of i lfi. Tnxion In cases of the commonwealth;
Interest, , who rccr-lves what ls tuxcd, 
Privilege extended lo poor persons.
1. A poor person may be allowed hy a court to sue or defend n. suit 
therein, without paying fees or costs; whereupon he shall have, from any
counsel whom the court may assign him, and from all officers, all needful
services and process, without any fees to them therefore, except what may
be included in the costs recovered from the opposite party. 
Security for costs.
2. In any suit ( except where such poor person is plaintifff) there may 
be a suggestion on the record in court, or ( if the case be at rules) on the
role docket, by a defendant or any officer of the court, that the plaintifff 
. id f hi d h d f hi A "' 
ts not a resi ent o t is state, an t at security 1s requireo rm. After
sixty days from such suggestion, the suit shall, by order of the court, be 
dismissed, unless before the dismiesion the plaintifff be proved to be a resident of the state, or security be given before said court or the clerk
thereof, for the payment of the costs and damages which may be awarded
to the defendant, and of the fees due, or to become due, in such suit, to
the officers of the court. The security shall be by bond payable to the 
commonwealth; but there need only be one obligor therein, if he be sufficient. The court, before which or before whose clerk such bond is given,
may, on motion by a defendant or officer, give judgment for so much as
he is entitled to, by virtue of said bond. 
3. On the motion of an obligor in such bond, after reasonable notice
to the plaintifff, his attorney at law or agent, the court may order bond to 
be given, with sufficient security, in a penalty equal to the penalty of
the former bond, payable to the applicant, and conditioned to indemnify
and save harmless the applicant against all loss or damage, in consequence of executing the former bond. If the bond, required under this
section, be not given within such time as the court may prescribe, it may
order the suit to be dismissed. 
Cases wherein costs are recovered.
4. Upon any motion (other than for a judgment for money), or upon 
any interlocutory order or proceeding, tho court may give or refuse costs,
at its discretion, unless it be otherwise provided. It may, when a de-;
murrer is sustained to a plea in abatement, give judgment for the plaintifff
for bis full costs to the time of sustnining it, an attorney's fee only excepted; and when any other part of the pleading is a<ljudged insufficient, 
order all costs occasioned by such insufficient pleading to be paid by him
who committed the fault. 
5. The party to whom a new trial is granted shall, previous to such
new trial, pay the costs of the former trial, unless the court enter that
the new trial is granted for misconduct of the opposite party, who, in
such case, may he ordered to pay any costs which seem to the court reasonable. If the party who is to pay the costs of the former trial, fail to
pay the same at or before the next term after the new trial is granted,
the court may, on the motion of the opposite party, set aside the order
granting it, and proceed to judgment on tho verdict, or award execution
for said costs, as may seem to it best. 
6. In any personal action not on contract, if a verdict be found for the
plaintifff, on an issue or otherwise, for less damages than ten dollars, lie 
shall not recover, in respect to such verdict, nuy emits, unless the court
enter of record that the ohject of the action was to try a right, besides 
the mere right to recover damages for the trespass or grievance in respect
of which the action wns brought, or thnt the said trespass or grievance
was willful or malicious. 
7. In any personal action on contract, wherein it is ascertained that 
less is due to the plaintifff than twenty dollars, exeluslre of interest, j udgh 11 b . l' h d l' d t nl h f rd 
ment s a e given ror t e eren an, u ess t e oonrt enter o reco
that the matter in controversy was of greater value than twenty doll~ 
exclusive of interest; in which case it may give judgment for the plaintifff
for what is ascertained to be due him, with or without cesta, as to it may 
seem right.
8. Except where it is otherwise provided, the party for whom final 
d c d " 
lv,JU gment 18 given many action, or m a motion ror JU gment ror money,
whether he be plaintifff or defendant, shall recover his coats against the 
d h th d th opposite party ; an w en e action 18 agamst two or more, an ere is 
a. judgment for, or disoontinuance as to some but not all of the defendants, unless the court enter of record that there was reasonable cause
for making defendants, those for whom there is such judgment, or as to 
whom there is such discontinuance (and order otherwise), they shall recover their costs. 
9. When a suit is in the name of one person for the benefit of any 
other, if there be judgment for the defendant's costs, it shall be against
such other. 
IO. The laws of costs shall not be interpreted as penal laws ; nor shall
any thing in this chapter take away or abridge the discretion of a court 
of equity over the subject of costs, except as follows:
11. In every case in an appellate court, costs shall be recovered in 
such court by the pnrty substantially prevalllng.s
Hom costs are taxed. 
12. The clerk of the court wherein any party recovers costs, shall tax
said costs. 
a. He shall include in the costs, for the fee of such party's attorney
(if he have one) : 
IB a, county or corpoiatiou. co~r-t,--mr--an appeal f1vm the judgment of a jmtice, e+-95- 
In a circuit, county or corporation court, unless it be a case of
judgment by default on a forthcoming bond, or a case other- 
wise provided for, 2 50
In a county or corporation court, when it is a complaint of un- 
lawful entry or detainer, or an action of ejectment, or a case 
~~MOO~ - 500
In a case of the commonwealth, if no higher fee be allowed, 5 00
In a. circuit court, in an action of ejectment, or on a writ of 
error or aupersedeas, or an appeal (other than in a chancery
case), 5 00 
In a chaneerv case (other than a motion) in a circuit 001.\Ij../ 1"1'",,' ;....,... 
\vhether as~ court of original or appellate j~1i~dicfio~, ("','), 15 00
In a district court, 20 00
In the court of appeals," 20 00 
14. Although the 1>arty recovering may have had more than one attorney, only the fee of one shall be taxed in the same court. 
j 15. The clerk shall tax in the costs all taxes on process and all_ fees of 
officers, which the said party appears to be chargeable with in the case
h 
' h h h h 
w erem t e recovery is, except t at w ere, m any court on t e same
side, more than one copy of any thing is obtained or taken out, there
shall be taxed only the foe for one copy of the same thing. He shall 
a.lso tax two and a half dollars for the cost of executing any order of
publication made in the case for such party; two dollars for publishing in 
a newspaper any notice from him in the case, other than such order;
fifty cents for each legal notice from him therein, which is served in this 
state, and not otherwise taxed ; and the allowances to his witnesses, and
any further sum which the court may deem reasonable and direct to be
taxed for depositions taken out of the state, or for any other matter. 
In cases of the commonwealth.
16, In a ease wherein there is judgment or decree, OD behalf of the 
Ce.186.
Of enforcing decrees and orders ; docketing judgments and other llens
of the like nature; tho effect of such liens; and tho limitation andproceedings on judgments. 
187.
188.
189. 
Of executions for specific property ; and of writs of elegit and fi.eri
facias. 
Means of enforcing recoveries of money otherwise than by levying anclegit or fieri facins. 
Of forthcoming bonds, 
OF ENFORCING DECREES AND ORDERS; DOCKETING JUDGllENTS, AND
OTHER LU~NS OF THE LIKE NATURE; THE EFFECT OF SUCH LIENS;JL~D THE LIMIT.ATIO!'i OE' PROCEEDINGS ON JUDGMENTS. 
ltt.
1. Decrees and orders for property or money 
have dftct of judgments; embraced
by word "jntlgment," where used un
der thl11 title. 
I. How exeeutlon iMRue11 on decree or order 
for money to be paid Into court, or a 
3.} Of dockctlog u jndgml'nt, bond or recog- 
bank or place of deposlt, 
4 nlsanee ; penalty on clerk for fo.llure 
In duty. 
l h
'" h h ll b d . h h h 
commonwea t , ror costs, t ere s a e ta.xe , m t e costs, t e c arge
actually incurred to give any notice, although it be more than fifty cents;
and the fees of attorneys and other officers for services, and allowances
for attendance, as if such fees and allowances were payable out of the
treasury. What is so taxed for fees of, or allowance to, any person,
shall be paid to him, by the sheriff or officer, who may receive said costs,
unless such person shall previously have received payment thereof, inwhioh case the same shall be paid into the treasury. 
JUDGllENT LIENS AND EXECUTIONS. 
5. Ll11 peudens to be docketed. 
CHAPTER CLXXXVI. 
6. Judgment a lien on all debtor's real estate; from what time. 
7. Operation of Judgment before thll act 
~itlc 53 
eommenees, n11 agalngt pnrehaser, ere
ditol'll, helr11 or devlseu. 
8. Judgment not R Jlen against a pnrchaser 
for value without notice, unless docketed. 
9. Jnr!Mdlctlon of equity to enforce judar
meut lieu ; power to decree II sale.
10. A11 between altenees of ditrettnt part, of 
estate llable.
11. "'hen judgment eredltors 11hare ratably. 
12. l Limitation of proceedings to enforce
13. 5 jnrlgmente. 
14, Limitation of motion for ofllcer'1 failure 
to retum execution. 
265 
Decree, and orders on the footing of judgmtnts.
I. A decree for land or specific personal property, and a decree or 
order requiring th~ payment of money, shall have the effect of a judgment for such land, property or money, and be embraced by the word 
d h d . . h d hi . I B
"JU gment," w ere use in any c apter un er t 1s tit e. ut a party 
may proceed to carry into execution a decree or order in chancery other
than for the payment of money, as he might have done if this and the
following section had not been enacted. 
2. The persons entitled to the benefit of any decree or order requiring 
the payment of money shall be deemed judgment creditors, although the 
money be required to be paid into a court or a bank or other place of
deposit. In such case, an execution on the decree or order shall make
such recital thereof, and of the parties to it, as may be necessary to designate the case ; and if a time be specified in the decree or order within
which the payment is to be made, the execution shall not issue until the
expiration of that time. 
Docketing judgments and other liens of a like nature.
3. In the following section, the word "judgment" shall include any 
bond or recognizance which has the force of a judgment.
4. The clerk of each county and corporation court shall keep in hiB 
office, in a well bound book, a judgment docket, in which he shall docket
without delay any judgment in this state, when ho shall be required to 
do so by any person interested, on such person's delivering him, if the
judgment be not in his court or office, an authenticated abstract of it.
In such docket there shall be stated, in separate columns,' the date and
amount of the judgment, the date of docketing it, the alternative value
of any specific property recovered hy it, and the amount and date of any
credits on the judgment, with the names, description and residence of
the parties so far as they appear in his office or in such abstract. Every
judgment shall, so soon as it is docketed, be indexed in the name of each 
defendant therein. If a clerk fail to do any thing required of him by
this section, he shall pay a fine of not less than thirty nor more than
three hundred dollars to any person who will prosecute therefore. 
5. No Iis pendens or attachment against the estate of a non-resident
shall bind or affect a purchaser of real estate, without actual notice 
thereof, unless and until a memorandum setting forth the title of the cause,
the general object thereof, the court in which it is pending, a description
of the land, and the name of the person whose estate is intended to be 
affected thereby, shall be left with the clerk of the court of the county or
corporation in which the land is situate, who shall forthwith record the said
memorandum in the deed book, and index the same by the name of the 
person aforesaid. 
Lien of judgments on real estate.
6. Emry judgment for money rendered in this state heretofore or 
hereafter, against any person, shall be a lien on all the real estate of, or 
to which such person shall be possessed or entitled, at or after the date of 
such judgment, or if it was rendered in court, at or after the commencement of the term at which it was so rendered, except as follows : 
7. A.judgment rendered before the commencement of this act shall, 
as against a. purchaser or creditor, claiming under a. deed made or judgment obtained before the day of such commencement, or as against the
heirs or devisees of a person dying before tha.t day, affect no more of such
real estate than would have been liable thereto, under the laws in force
on the day before this chapter takes effect. 
8. No judgment shall be a lien on real estate as against a purchaser
thereof for valuable consideration without notice, unless it be docketed 
according to the third and fourth sections of this chapter, in the county
or corporation wherein such real estate is, either within a year next afterthe date of such judgment, or ninety days before the conveyance of said
estate to such purchaser. 
f9. The lien of a judgment may always be enforced in a court of equity.
If it appear to such court that the rents and profits of the real estate,
subject to the lien, will not satisfy the judgment in five years, the court
may decree the said estate or any part thereof to be sold, and the proceeds applied to the discharge of the judgment. 
IO. Where the real estate liable to the lien of o. judgment is more than
sufficient to satisfy the same, and it or any part of it has been aliened, as
between the allenees for value, that which was aliened last shall, in equity,
be first liable, anc.l so on with other successive alienations, until the whole 
judgment is satisfied. And as between alieuees who are volunteers under
such judgment debtor, the same rule as to the order of liability shall prevail. But any part of such real estate retained by the debtor himself,
shall be first liable to the satisfaction of the judgment. 
11. Where two or more judgments arc rendered against the same person, and the lien thereof on his real estate commences on the same day,
the creditors having such judgments shall be entitled to satisfaction out
of said real estate ratably. 
Limitation of proceedings to enforce judgments. ~ 
tJ!. On a judgment, execution may be issued within a year, and a 
scire faeias or action may be brought within ten years after the date of 
the judgment; and where execution issues within the year, other exeeutione may be issued, or a scire facias or action may be brought within ten 
years from the return day of an execution on which there is no return by
an officer, or within twenty years from the return day of an execution on
which there is such return ; except that where the scire faeias or action
is against the personal representative of a decedent, it shall be brought
within five years from the qualification of such representative. 
13. No execution shall issue, nor anf seire faeias or action be brought
on a judgment in this state, other than for the commonwealth, after the
' 'bdb h di ' h h
tune prct:tcn e y t e prece mg section, except t at, m computing t e 
time, any time during which the right to sueout execution on the judg- 
ment ie suspended by the terms thereof, or by legal process, shall be
omitted; and the fifteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth, eighteenth and nine- 

teenth sections of chapter one hundred and forty-nine shall apply to the
right to bring such action or scire facias in like manner as to any right,
action or scire faeins mentioned in those sections; and except that when
the judgment is for the penalty of a bond, but to be discharged by the
payment of what is then ascertained, and such sums as may be afterwards assessed or found due upon a scire faoias on the judgment, assigning a further breach of the bond, such scire facias may be brought within
ten years after such breach. 
14. A motion against an officer or his sureties, or his or their represcntatives, for a failure to return an execution, shall be made within ten
years from the return dny thereof, and not after. 
CHAPTER CLXXXVII. 
OF EXECUTIONS FOR SPECIFIC PROPERTY; AND OF WRITS 01" ELEGIT
AND PIERI FACIAS. 
SU.
I. How execution Issues agaln11t a corpora
tlon; or on joint judgment ogain1t two
or more. 
2. Flerl faelM or eleglt nllowc1l on judgmeat for money ; no levurt fuciWI to 
lune ; 1\h1trlngus only for spccltlc personal property. 
3. How execution l11eue11 where judgment
ls for bt>ncllt. of other per11011 than
plaintifff; remedles of such person. 
4. On judgment for specific property, a
writ of po1111e1111ion; fi. fa. for damaged
or profits and co11t11. 
:;, Plalntltf may have fl. fa. for alternnrlve
value (Instead of wrlt of )J0t111C1111lon) 
and damage" and eosts ; or a di11trlngru1.
6. How di,;trlnga11 may be snperseded and 
executed tor value; how value 11.11certalned. 
7. Elegit on a Jn,tgment before thl11 act,
how i1111ned and returned. 
8. Form of !'legit on Jmlgmt'nt hereafter.
9. Return oC ehglt on such judgment. 
10. ,vhen land extendible Iii omitted; remedy. 
11. F'ier! faclas, what it may be levied on;
from ""hot tlmo it bl11d11. 
12. If levy on. coin or bank notes ; bow aecounted for. 
&c.
13. Officer's duty to endorse time of recehrlntr 
ft. fa. ; remedy ugnlnst him for failure.
14. 'Where several writ11 of ft. fa. bow mt.hl
flod.
15. "'hot return to be made on fi. fa. ; whnt 
stutement to be therewlth ; oftker'a
duty to pay. 
16. When purchaser at offlccr'll sale fall
to comply, power to r"11l'il; remed7
against purehuser nt ftr~t 11111!. 
17. Vendltioni exponas t when it may lane; 
proceedings thereon.
18. '\\'hero officer taking property under exe
cntion dlcs before 1111le, and there are no
deputlca, writ of venditlonl exponu 
go111 to new officer; proceedings in 
sneh ease : provlsion f.ir new execution.
19. ,vhcn money received under executlon 
may be repaid to debtor.
20. Officer not required to ~o out of hit 
county or curporatiou to pny monejmade by him. 
21. Af\er one oxeeurlon llas ie11uod, provlllioll
for others. 
22. In certain cases new execution nllowcd
on sclre faclas, or motion; limitativu
thereof 
23. Ho,,. executlon mny be qnaehed, 
As to issuing executions generally.
I. Against n. corporation such executions mny issue ae against a natu
ral person. And where a judgment is against several persons jointly,
executions thereon shall be joint against them all. 
2. On a. judgment for money, there may be issued a writ of fieri faciaa
or writ of elegit. No writ of levari facias shall be issued herea.fter; nor
a writ of distringas, except on a judgment for specific personnl property. 
3. Where an execution issues on a judgment for tho benefit, in whole
or in part, of any person other than the plaintifff, if the fact appear b1 
the record, the clerk shall, in the execution or an endorsement thereon,
state the extent of the interest therein of such person; and he ( either in
his own name or that of the plaintifff) may, as a party injured. prosecute
a suit or motion against tho officer. 
Of executions for specific property.
4. On judgments for the recovery of specific property, real or personal, 
a writ of possession may issue for the specific property, which shall conform to the judgment as to the description of the property and the estate,
title or interest recovered; and there may also be issued a writ of fieri
facias or elegit for the damages or profits and costs. 
5. When the judgment is for personal property, the plaintifff' may, at
his option, have a fieri facias for the alternative value (instead of a writ
of possession), and the damages and costs. Or he may have a writ of
distringas. 
6. If a distringas issue, the court, on the motion of either party, may
order it to be superseded as to the specific thing, and to be executed in 
lieu thereof for the alternative value. Such value, if not fixed in the
judgment, may be ascertained by a jury, to be forthwith impanneled. 
Of the writ of elegit.
7. A writ of elegit on a judgment rendered before the commencement 
of this act, shall be issued and returned according to the laws in force on
the day before such commencement. 
8. A writ of elegit on a. judgment hereafter rendered, shall be to the
following effect:-" The commonwealth of Virginia, to the sheriff of!. 
county (or, to the sergeant of, &c. ) : Whereas AB, before
&c. on the day of ( and if it was in court, at a term commencing on the day of ), recovered against C D the sum of
(insert principal sum recovered, and interest, if any), and for his 
eosts : Now we command you to cause all the real estate of, or to which
the said C D was possessed or entitled, on or after the day aforesaid on
which the said judgment was rendered ( or, if it was in court, on which
the said term commenced), to be delivered, by reasonable extent, to the
said A B, for him andhis assigns to hold the same, until the amount of 
the said judgment be levied thereof; and mak~ return hereof at &c."
9. The return of a writ of elegit, issued under the preceding section, 
shall be to the following effect :-" Inquisition taken in the county ( or
corporation) of , on the day of , in the year , before E F, sheriff (or sergeant, or deputy sheriff or sergeant) of the said
county or corporation, by virtue of the annexed writ, and by the following 
jurors, to wit: AB, &c., who, upon their oaths, <lo say, that C D, named
in tho said writ, was, on or after the day on which (or. if it was in court,
the day the term commenced at which) the judgment therein mentioned 
wns rendered, possessed or entitled, of or to the following real estate (and
none other to their knowledge), in the said county (or corporation), to
wit: (here describe the same) ; and that the said real estate is of the
annual value of ; and I, the said , sheriff (or
deputy sheriff) as aforesaid, have delivered the said real estate to G H,
in the said writ named, at such value, for him and his assigns to hold the
lame until the amount of the said judgment be levied thereof. In testimony whereof, we, the sheriff and jurors aforesaid, hereto put our
hands." 
10. An extent ahall not be avoided or delayed, because part of the
land extendible is omitted out of such extent; but there shall be saved to 
those whose lends are extended, their remedy for contribution against a
person whose lands are so omitted. 
Of the writ of ficri facias.
ll. By a writ of fieri facias, the officer shall be commanded to -make 
the money therein mentioned out ef the goods and chattels of the person
against whom the judgment is. The writ may be levied as well on
the current money and bank notes, as on the goods and chattels of such
person ; and as against purchasers for valuable consideration withou~
notice, and creditors, shall bind what it may be levied on only from the
time that the writ is delivered to the officer to be executed. 
t 12. If the levy be upon gold or silver coin, the same shall be accounted
for at its par value as so much money made under the execution. If it
be upon bank notes, and the creditor will not take them at their nominal
value, they shall be sold and accounted for as any other property taken 
under execution.
13. Every officer shall endorse on each writ of fieri facias the year, 
month, day, and time of day, he receives the same. If he fail to do so,
the judgment creditor may, by motion, recover against him and his sureties, jointly and severally, in the court in which the judgment was rendered, a sum not exceeding fifteen per centum upon the amount of the
execution. 
14. Of writs of fieri facias, that which was first delivered to the officer,
though two or more be delivered on the same day, shall be first levied
and satisfied, and where several such executions are delivered to the
officer at the same time, they shall be satisfied pari passu. 
15. Upon a. writ of fieri faeias, the officer shall return whether the
money therein mentioned is or cannot be made; or if there be only part
thereof which is or cannot be made, he shall return the amount of such
part. With every execution under which money is recovered, he shall
return a statement of the amount received, including his fees and other
charges ; and such amount, except the said fees and charges, he shall pay
to tho person entitled. 
16. If, at any sale by an officer, the purchaser shall not comply with
the terms of sale, the officer may sell the property, either forthwith or
under a new advertisement, or return that tho property was not sold for
want of bidders. If, on a resale, the property be sold for less than it
sold for before, the first purchaser shall be liable for the difference to the
creditor, so far as is required to satisfy him, and to the debtor for the
balance. This section shall not prevent the creditor from proceeding aa
he might have done if it had not been enacted. 
Of the writ of enditioni u:ponas.
17. When it appears by the return on an execution, that property 
taken to satisfy it remains unsold, a writ of venditioni exponas may
issue; whereupon the like proceedings shall be had as might have been
had on the first execution, except that if it issue upon a return of no 
Ale for want of bidders, or of a sufficient bid, the. notice shall state the
fact, and that the sale will be made peremptorily. 
18. If an officer, taking property under execution, die before the sale
th f. d
th
be
d 
. ( f h fli ) . . h
ereo , an ere no epnttes o sue o cer acting m t e case, 
upon a suggestion of the fact, a writ of venditioni esponas may be
directed to such sheriff or other officer of the county or corporation
wherein the property was taken, as may be in office at the time the writ
issues. Whereupon the representatives of the officer so dying, shall
deliver the property to the officer to whom the writ is directed. If they
fail so to do, on his producing the said writ, and executing a receipt for
the property to them, or if, after three months from the death of such
officer, he have no personal representative, upon a return of the fact,
execution may be issued, by virtue of which, such sheriff or other officer
of the county or corporation, may seize the said property. An officer
seizing or receiving property under this section, shall sell it and account
therefore as if the levy on it had been by himself. . 
What ffl{>ney receioed. under execution is to be paid debtor ; o.lficer not 
obliged to go out of his county to pay money.
19. When an officer has received money under execution, if any 
surplus remain in his hands after satisfying the execution, such surplus
shall be repaid to the debtor ; and if the debtor or his personal repre- 
sentative, obtain an injunction or auperaedeae to an execution, in whole
or in part, before money received under it, or any part of it, is paid over
to the creditor, the officer shall repay such debtor the money so received,
and not so paid over, or so much thereof as the injunction or eupersedeas
may extend to, unless the said process otherwise direct. 
20. No officer receiving money under execution, when the person to
whom it is payable resides in a different county or corporation from that! 
in which the officer resides, shall be liable to have any judgment ren- 
dered against him or his sureties for the non-payment thereof, until a
demand of payment be made of such officer in bis county or corporation,
by such creditor or his attorney at law, or some person having a written
order from the creditor 
.After <me execution has issued, provision for others; how execution may
be quashed. 
21. Subject to the limitations prescribed by chapter one hundred and
igh " btai th . 
ei ty-e1x, a party o mmg an execution may sue out o er executions
at his own costs, though the return day of a former execution has not ar- 
ed d h h d r d h
nv ; an may sue out ot er executions at t e eren ant's costs, w ere 
on a former execution there is a return by which it appears that the writ
bu not been executed, or that it or any part of the amount thereof is not 
levied, or that property levied on has been discharged by legal process
which does not prevent a new execution on the judgment. In no case
shall there be more than one satisfaction for the same money or thing. 
22. If a tenant by elegit be lawfully evicted, or the land extended be
lawfully sold, and any part of the !udgment be unpaid, or when property 
sold under execution, or its value, is recovered from an obligor in an indemnifying bond given before such sale, or from a purchaser having a 
right of action on such bond, the person having such judgment or execu- 
tion, or his personal representative may, by scire facias, or motion after
reasonable notice to the person, or the personal representative of the
person, against whom the judgment or execution was, obtain a new execution against him in the latter case, for the amount for which the property sold, with interest from the day of sale, and in the other easea, for
so much of the judgment as remains unpaid. Such seire facias shall be
sued out, or such motion made within five years after the right to sue out
or make the same. 
KEANS 0:E' ENFORCING RECOVERIES OF MONEY OTHERWISE THAN BY 
&c. &c. 
1. Where, when this oct takes eft"ect, a per- 11. When by lien of fl. fa. there le a claim 
Bon UI In execution or thu bounds, or on any person other thun judgmeni
has given bail. debtor, summons may bo sued ou& 
2. No ea. aa. to be Issued or executed here- against him; bow i1111ued and returned.
after, except In caeea provided for by 12. How such person ls examined; court'1 
preceding section, or chapters 38 and order on such examination; exeeutloa 
151. thereon. 
3. How lion may be acquired on dcbtor'11 13. If he (ail to appear, or to disclose his lla- 
whole personal estate, billty, proceedings thereupon. 
4. Lien terminated by a forfeited forthcom- 14. Person summoned may before return day
Ing bond, or by a superaedeaa or other o( summon a deliver to or pay officer; 
5 
t
! How judgment debtor may be compelled is, Judgment &II to coats.
o 16 By whom and.how sult may be brought 
7. 
23. A motion to quash an execution may, after reasonable notice to 
the adverse party, be heard and decided on, if a justice issued the exeeution, by such justice or the court to which he belongs, and in other cases,
by the court whose clerk issued the execution, or if it was from a ciroui,
court, by the judge thereof, in vacation. 
CHAPTER CLXXXVITI. 
LEYYING AN ELEOIT OR FIERI F ACIAS. 
legal proeess. duty of officer in such case. 
to dlscover 1111d surrender hh1 estate. for the recovery of estate on which ft..
8. Bow Judgment debtor about to quit (a. or the judgment on which It lssue1 
state may be arrested and held to an- la a Iien, or (or the enforcement of any
awer. liability In respect to such estate. 
9. Court In which judgment la may take li. Officer recelvlng money under this ehap- 
order for sale and proper application tor to make return thereof and pay
of debtor's estate, net proceeds; how liable if faUuro to 
10. Offlcer'a duty 88 to 1111le, collection and do either.
dlsposltton of debtor's estate ; when he 18. As to creditor's right to Issue other exels to return to clerk's office evldenees eutlons, 
of debt; penalty for failure. 
Where debtor has given bail, or is in bounds or execution.
1. If under a judgment rendered before this chapter takes effect, a 
h 11 h . . k 11' b . . h th b
person s a , at t e time It ta es etteet, e m execution, or ave e e- 
nefit of the prison rules or bounds, the judgment creditor may proceed
against such person, and the sureties in the bounds bond, according to
the laws in force on tho day before the commencement of this act; and if
there be judgment before or after such commencement, in a case wherein
the judgment creditor may proceed against the bail of any person, a writ
of capias ad satisfuciendum may be sued out against and executed on
such person. In any case under this section, the person in execution, or
having the benefit of such rules or hounds, may be discharged, and his 
estate subjected and applied according to the said laws. 
2. No writ of oapiae ad satisfaciendum shall be issued or executed
hereafter," except in the cases provided for by the preceding section.] 
How lien may be acquired on debtor's whole personal estate.
3. Every writ of fieri facias hereafter Issued, shall, in addition to the 
effect which it has under chapter one hundred and eighty-seven, be a lien
from the time that it is delivered to a sheriff or other officer, to be exe- 
outed, upon all the personal estate of, or to which the judgment debtor is
possessed or entitled (although not levied on, nor capable of being levied 
on, under that chapter), except in the case of a husband or parent such
things a11 are exempt from distress or levy by the thirty-third and thirty- 
fi 
h
+ f h r. d ha . 
ourt sectums+ o c apter forty-nine, an except t t as agamst an assignee of any such estate for valuable consideration, or a person making
a payment to the judgment debtor, the lien by virtue of this section shall
be valid only from the time that he has notice thereof. This section shall
not impair a lien acquired by an execution creditor under chapter one
hundred and eighty-seven. 
By what bond or legal process lien is terminated.
4. The lien acquired under the preceding section shall cease whenever 
the right of the judgment creditor to levy the fieri facias, under which the
said lien arises, or to levy a new execution on his judgment, ceasee or is
suspended by a forthcoming bond being given and forfeited, or hy a supersedea.s or other legal process. 
Hou: debtor compelled to discoeer and surrender his estate.
5. To ascertain the estate on which a writ of fieri fucias is a lien, and 
to ascertain any real estate in or out of this state, to which a debtod~tt~:
named in such fieri faeiae is entitled, the judgment creditor may file interrogatories to the debtor, and a copy of the judgment, with a commissioner 
of the circuit, county or corporation court, who shall issue a summons as
in the cases provided for by the thirty-ninthsection of chapter one hundred and seventy-six, except that it shall not be served out of the county
or corporation in which the commissioner resides. The debtor served
with such summons shall, within the time prescribed therein, file answers
upon oath to said interrogatories. If he fail so to do, or file any answers 
which are deemed by the commissioner to be evasive, the commissioner, 
after the service and return day of a notice to or a role upon the debtor,
issued by such commissioner, and returnable to a day and place indicated
in the process, to show cause against it, may issue any attachment against
such debtor, returnable before him on a day and place certain, set out in
it, to compel such debtor to answer before the commissioner the interrogatories aforesaid, or any others which he may deem pertinent. But the
said commissioner shall enter in his proceedings and report to the court,
any and all the objections taken by such debtor against answering such
interrogatories, or any or either of them ; and if the court shall afterwards sustain any one or more of such objections, the answers given to
such interrogatories as to which objections are sustained, slmll ha hold for
naught in that or any other cause. 
6. Any real estate out of this state, to which it may appear by such
answers the debtor is entitled, shall be forthwith conveyed by him to the 
officer to whom was delivered the said fieri faeias ; and any money, bank
notes, securities, evidences of debt or other personal estate, which it may 
appear by such answera are in the possession or under the control of the
debtor, shall be delivered by him, as far as practicable, to the same officer,
or to such other, and in such manner as may be ordered by the court,
when the answers are in court, or by the commissioner when the answers
are not in court. Unless such conveyance and delivery be made, a. writ
shall be issued by the court's order, or if the answers be not in court, by
the commissioner, directed to the sheriff of any county or the sergeant of
any corporation, requiring such sheriff' or sergeant to take the debtor and
keep him safely, until he shall make such conveyance and delivery; upon
doing which he shall be discharged by the court under whose order the
writ issued, or if the answers were not in court, by the court by which the
commissioner was appointed, or in either case, if the court be not sitting, 
by the commissioner.
7. Tho commissioner shall return the interrogatories and answers filed 
with him, and a report of the proceedings under the two preceding sections, to the court in which the judgment is, or if the judgment be of a
justice, to the court to which such justice belongs. 
8. Where a debtor named in a writ of fieri faolaa, after being served
with a. summons issued by a commissioner, shall fail, within the time prescribed therein, to file answers upon oath to said interrogatories, or shall
file answers which are deemed by the commissioner to be evasive, if the
judgment creditor shall by affidavit show to the satisfaction of the commissioner that there is probable cause for believing that the said debtor is
about to quit this state, unless he be forthwith apprehended, a writ shall
be issued by the commissioner, directed to the sheriff of any county or
the sergeant of any corporation, requiring such sheriff or sergeant to take
the debtor, and keep him safely, until such answers to the interrogatories
as the commissioner deems proper shall be filed, and such conveyance and
delivery as he deems proper shall be made, or until a circuit, county or
corporation court or a circuit judge shall direct the debtor's discharge. A 
county or corporation court may act under this section, either at a monthly
or quarterly term. 
As to recovery, sale and application of debtor', estate,
9. Any order may be made by such court which it may deem right, 88 
to the sale and proper application of the estate conveyed and delivered
under sections six and aeven. 
IO. Real estate conveyed to an officer under this chapter, shall, unless
saeh oourt direct otherwise, be sold after such notice as in the case
slaves levied on, and be conveyed to the purchaser by the officer or his 
deputy. An officer to whom there is delivery under this chapter, when!~the delivery is of money, bank notes, or any goods or chattels, shall dis- 
pose of the same as if levied on by him under a fieri facias; and when
the delivery is of evidences of debts (other than such bank notes), may 
r.eceive payment of such debts within sixty days after such delivery.
Any evidence of debt or other security remaining in his hands at the end
of said sixty days, shall be returned by him to the clerk's office of such
court. For a failure to make such return, he may be proceeded against
as if an express order of said court for such return bad been disobeyed. 
II. On a suggestion by the judgment creditor that by reason of tho
lien of his writ of fieri facias, there is a liability on any person other
than the judgment debtor, a summons may be sued out of the said office 
against said person to answer such suggestion ; the return day of which
summons may be the next term of the court, although more than ninety
days after the date of the summons. 
12. The person summoned shall be examined on oath. If it appear
on such examination that there is any such liability on him, tho court
may order him to pay any debts, or deliver any estate for which there
such liability, or pay tho value of such estate, to any officer whom it may
designate ; nnd the levy of an execution on such order shall be valid,
although levied by such officer. 
13. If such person, after being served with the summons twenty days,
fail to appear, or if it be suggested that he has not fully disclosed his 
liability, the proceedings shall be according to the eighteenth and nineteenth sections of chapter one hundred and fifty-one, mutatis mutandis. 
14. Any person summoned under the eleventht section, may, before the
return day of the summons, deliver andpay to the officer serving it, what 
he is liable for; and the officer shall give a receipt for, and make return
of, what is so paid and delivered. 
15. Unless such person appear to be liable for more than is so delivered
and paid, there shall be no judgment ago.inst him for costs. In other 
cases, judgment under the twelfth and thirteentht: sections may be for
such costs, and against such party, as the court may deem just. 
16. For the recovery of any estate, real or personal, on which a writ
of fieri facias is a lien under this chapter, or on which the judgment on 
which such writ issues, is a lien under chapter one hundred and eightysix, or for the enforcement of any liability in respect to any such estate,
a suit may be maintained at law or in equity, as the case mny require, in
the name of the officer to whom such writ was delivered, or in the name
of any other officer who may be designated for the purpose by an order
of the court in which the judgment is, or if the judgment be of a justice, 
by an order of the court to which such justice belongs. No officer shall
be bound to bring such suit, unless bond with sufficient security be given
him to indemnify him against all expenses and costs which he may incur
or become liable for by reason thereof. But any person interested may 
bring such suit at his own costs in the officer's name.
17. An officer receiving money under this chapter shall, within thirty 
days after receiving it, make return thereof to the court or the clerk's
office of the court in which the judgment is, or to which, if it was rendered by a justice, such justice belongs, and for failing so to do, shall be
liable as if he had acted under an order of said court. After deductimg
from said money a commission of five per cent. and his necessary expenses
and costs, including reasonable fees to counsel, he shall pay the net proceeds, and he and his sureties and their representatives shall be liable
therefore, in like manner as if the same had been made under a writ of
fieri facias on the judgment, returnable at the end of said thirtr days 
.As to creditor's right to issue other executions,
18. Although a judgment creditor avail himself of the benefit of this 
chapter, he may nevertheless (without impairing his lien under it), from
time to time, according to chapters one hundred and eighty-six and one
hundred and eighty-seven, issue other executions upon his judgment
until the same be satisfied. 
( (, '-. ) 
t ff CHAPTER CLXXXIX. 
OF FORTHCOMING BONDS,
k lk
1. Wbcn and how a forthcoming bond may 7. W'hat endorsement clerk to mako on ezebe tak<m; property then remains in cutlon In inch cases. 
<hihtor's posseadon. 8. Ju11ticc of the peace may gin judgment
2. If Mnd bl' forfeited, where It le to be re- on forthcoming bonds in certain llmit1. 
turned, and when; it11 offect ; clerk's 9. Duties of clerk therein, and hi,1 fec11.
<lnty to endorse time of return. 10. Ho,T bond withdrawn froru clerk's office. 
!J. Liability of obligors ; how recovery on 11. Co11tR Included by justice.
the bond. 12. Justice to endorse that no security 1.8 to 
.f. ,vhere taken under dietrese warrant, be taken. 
what defense muy bo made. 13. No stay of execution; Justice to keep
5. Remedy of credltor If bond bo qu1111hcd. record. 
6. In whut c&11e11 forthcoming bond not to 14. Jurlgmcut to bi: rendered for coats and
be taken. Intereat, 
1. The sheriff or other officer levying a writ of fieri facias, or distress
warrant, mny take from the debtor a bond with sufficient surety, payable
to the creditor,. reciting the service of such writ or warrant, nod the
amount due thereon (including his fee for taking the bond, commission
and other lawful charges, if any), with condition that the property shall 
be forthcoming at the day and pince of sale. Whereupon such property 
may be permitted to remain in the possession and at the risk of the
debtor. 
2. If the condition of such bond be not performed, the officer, unless
payment be nia.do of the amount due on the execution or warrant (in- 
eluding his fee. commission and charges as aforesaid), shall, within thirty
days after tho bond is forfeited, return it, with the execution or warrant, 
to such court or the clerk's office of such court as is prescribed by the
twenty-seventh section of chapter forty-nine. Tho clerk shall endorse
on the bond tho date of its return; and against such of the ohligors
therein, as may be alive when it is forfeited and so returned, it shall have 
~e force of a judgment. But no execution shall issue thereon under this
aection. 
:i:n'he obligors in such forfeited hood shall be liable for the money
therein mentioned, with interest thereon from the date of the bond till
paid, and the costs; the obligee or his personal representative, shall bo
entitled to recover the same by action or motion. 
4. In an action or motion on such bond, when it is taken under a distress warrant, the defendants may make defense on the ground that the
distress was for rent not duo in whole or in part, or was otherwise illegal. 
5. If any such bond be at any time quashed, the obligee, besides his
remedy against the officer, may have such execution on his judgment, or! 
iBSne such distress warrant, as would have been lawful if such bond had
Bot been taken. 
6. No bond for the forthcoming of property shall be taken on an exe-u 
ention on a forthcoming bond, nor on an execution on a judgment againsta sheriff sergeant, coroner or constable, or a deputy of any of them, or a
mrety or personal representative of any such officer or deputy, for mo~ey
received by any such officer or depnty, by virtue of his office, or against
any such officer or his personal representative, in favor of a surety of
such officer, or against o. deputy of any such officer, or his surety or pereonal representative, in favor of his principal or the personal representative of such principal, for money paid or ajudgment rendered for o. default in office ; nor on an execution against an overseer of the poor, or
his personal representative, for money received by him as such; nor on
any other execution on which the clerk is required by law to endorse that
"no security is to be taken." 
7. On evl'ry execution on which a forthcoming bond is prohibited from
being given, the endorsement that "no security is to be taken," shall be
made by the clerk. 
Judgments on forthcoming bonds taken by constables on executions
issued by justices. 
8. Ajnsticc of tho peace may, on motion, after ten days' notice of the
time and place thereof, give judgment on any forthcoming bond taken by 
a eonstablc upon a fteri faelas issued by a justice. Hut in every ease,
when the amount actually due upon snob bond, exclusive of interest, exceeds twenty dollars, the justice shall, npan the applieatlon of the defon- 
da.nt, at any time before trial, remove the cause to the court of the county
or corporation wherein the same shall be brought, and the clerk of the
said court shall docket the same ; and it shall be proceeded in as if itwas a motion originally made in said court ; and it shall not be discontinued by reason of no order being entered of its continuance from one
day to another, or from one term to another. 
9. Upon the return of such bond to the clerk's office in the manner
prescribed by the second section of this chapter." it shall be the duty of
the clerk to endorse thereon the date of such return, and to record in a
book to be by him kept for the purpose, the date of such bond, the amount
of the penalty thereof, the amount, the payment whereof will discharge
such penalty, and the names of the obligee and obligor to such bond.
For which service the clerk shall be entitled to a fee of thirty cents ; and
such bond, when so returned to the clerk's office aforesaid, shall constitute 
a lien on the real estate of the obligor.
IO. Such clerk shall endorse upon such bond the amount of the fee 
aforesaid; and the obligee in such bond, or his agent, may, at any time
after the record of such bond is made by the clerk, required by the ninth
section,+ withdraw the same from the clerk's office. 
II. The justice, on giving judgment on such bond, shall include in the
costs of the judgment the clerk's fee aforesaid ; and the clerk shall not
receive any fee or reward for any service he is required to perform by
the provisions of the said ninth section,+ except that herein specified. 
12. It shnll be the duty of the justice issuing a fieri faeias upon the
judgment allowed by this act, to endorse upon such ficri faeias, "no secu
rity of any kind shall he taken on this execution."
13. A justice shall not stay execution upon any judgment authorized 
by this act. The justice rendering judgment under the provisions of this
act, shall keep a record thereof in the same manner as he is now required
by law in other cases. 
14. The justice shall render judgment upon the bond for the amount
actually due thereon, with proper interest and costs. 
